30-04-2020||City||Confusion over timings prevails on Day 1 of relaxation in Ludhiana||A day after chief minister Amarinder Singh announced a four-hour relaxation in the state, shops selling essential commodities in the city opened on Thursday amid confusion over the timings. As the decision on timings (7am to 11am) was taken late in the evening on Wednesday, most shopkeepers remained clueless about it and brought their shutters down before 11am for fear of action by authorities. Residents, on the other hand, were seen openly flouting the curfew norms by turning up in their vehicles even as the administration had only permitted them to walk to their nearby shops. However, in a relief to the administration, most residents stayed home as essential supplies, including groceries and medicines, are readily available at doorsteps.Deepak Chawla, a grocery shop owner, said, he opened the shop on Thursday morning but closed it before 11 am as there was confusion about the time till which counter sales are allowed.President of the Punjab Chapter of Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), Harkesh Mittal said kirana wholesalers are facing harassment at the hands of administration due to the confusion over timings. “There is no proper communication from the administration due to which many wholesalers reached their shops on Thursday morning only to be asked by the police to return.”Deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal said that residents were seen moving on city roads even after 11 am on Thursday but from now on, strict would be taken against such violators. Agrawal said that shops selling essential commodities, the owners of which have already got passes for home delivery, have been allowed to do counter sales from 7am and 11am. Residents can commute only on foot during the relaxation period (7am to11am).Shopkeepers can carry out doorstep delivery from 11am to 7pm and wholesale shops can also open after 11 am and operate till 7pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/confusion-over-timings-prevails-on-day-1-of-relaxation-in-ludhiana/story-gLQvagswZ2r9Gm0K4AJB4J.html
30-04-2020||Lucknow||Norms relaxed, sanitisers to be available at general stores too||The Uttar Pradesh Food Safety and Drug Administration department has relaxed the norms for manufacture and availability of sanitisers, allowing general stores to sell them as well. The demand for sanitisers has shot up since the coronavirus pandemic outbreak.On the request of the state’s excise department, principal secretary, food safety and drug administration, Anita Singh issued an order relaxing the norms for sale of sanitisers.“Earlier only medical centres with drug licences were authorised to sell sanitisers. So, technically only pharmacists were able to do that. But given the sharp increase in its demand and it having become a requirement, we had appealed to the drug administration department to relax the norms for its availability. So now sanitisers would be available at all shops and general stores,” principal secretary, excise, Sanjay Bhoosreddy said.“The general stores would, however, be subjected to regular inspection that would be required to see if they are conforming to norms,” he added.Some general stores have already begun selling sanitisers but Bhoosreddy said it was only after the order that they are legally permitted to sell it. “The retail price of hand sanitisers for the general public shall not be more than Rs 100 per 200 ml pack,” he said.He also said pricing for a larger pack of hand sanitisers shall be decided proportionately.“Any violation of this order shall be punishable under the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, the Essential Commodities Order, 2020 and other relevant rules in this regard,” he added.“I would urge people to ask for a bill while buying sanitisers so that those overcharging could be booked,” he said. As per a notification of the ministry of food, consumer affairs and public distribution, the centre, in its order of March 19, declared raw material used in the manufacture of hand sanitisers as an essential commodity. “The state government has issued licences at a rapid pace to sugar mills, distilleries and drug licence units to manufacture hand sanitisers. So far, 27 sugar mills-cum- distillery units have been licensed to obtain distilled alcohol for manufacturing sanitisers. Four pharmacies are also manufacturing sanitisers,” he said.“To regulate the production, quality, distribution, pricing and other aspects it has been mandated that without the consent of the central government, the price of alcohol used in the manufacture of hand sanitisers should not exceed the price that was prevailing before March 5. On March 21, the ministry of food, consumer affairs and public distribution issued an order stating that the retail price of 200 ml pack of hand sanitisers should not exceed Rs 100,” Bhoosreddy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/norms-relaxed-sanitisers-to-be-available-at-general-stores-too/story-QhrdsPYd4SpEerpSvVbgKJ.html
30-04-2020||Mumbai||State relaxes restrictions for intra-state travelling for stranded people||On the lines of the notification issued by the Centre on Wednesday, the state government in a notification on Thursday relaxed some lockdown norms and permitted stranded students, migrants, tourists, pilgrims and other citizens for inter-district and inter-state travel. The permissions will, however, come into effect from Saturday.“Stranded migrants, students, pilgrims and other people will be allowed to travel inter-district by seeking written permission in due format,” said home minister Anil Deshmukh.The notification has given powers to district collectors and the director of disaster management unit to grant permissions to all those stranded in the state to travel outside the respective districts where they are currently stranded by following the guidelines related to the Covid-19 pandemic. Several migrants have been left in the lurch since March in cities such as Mumbai, Thane and Pune, after the nation-wide lockdown came into effect. Kishoreraje Nimbalkar, secretary, relief and rehabilitation, said that permissions will be granted by collectors if any individual or family approaches or writes to him/her, only if he/she finds the reasons stated satisfactory.The notification will also pave way for the travelling of more than 5.7 lakh migrant workers who have been staying in the shelters camps across the state. “We will give them the permissions, but the responsibility of arranging the transportation will not be taken,” said an official from the state government. Those travelling back home from Maharashtra will however, have to go through a health check-up, follow the sanitisation guidelines and undergo a 14-day quarantine if required.Meanwhile, there are also around a few thousand workers from Maharashtra who are stranded in Gujarat, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh, while more than 500 students from the state are stranded in Delhi. Meanwhile, the state has already sent 72 state transport buses to bring around 1,800 students stuck in Kota in Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-relaxes-restrictions-for-intra-state-travelling-for-stranded-people/story-u4Tx97vpckG8yYWLal6YMI.html
30-04-2020||Mumbai||City’s Covid detection rate rises to 7% after more tests in containment areas||The percentage of novel coronavirus cases, compared to samples tested, in the state has increased to 7% from 4% in the last 15 days due to change in testing protocol that is targeting containment zones, which have a higher proportion of cases. Due to the better detection of cases, the number of false reporting of Covid-19 cases have also decreased.Maharashtra’s Covid-19 cases now stand at 10,498, the highest in the country. This is because of better detection rate with a change in testing protocol and an increase in the number of testing centres to 50 in the state.“As we have narrowed the testing protocol, we are able to focus more on symptomatic patients and close contact high-risk patients with comorbid health issues. This has helped us to detect more number of positive cases. Along with this, we have also boosted up our per day testing capacity. With more testing, more number of cases are being detected,” said Anup Kumar Yadav, commissioner (family welfare) and director of National Health Mission, Maharashtra.Till April 12, per 100 tests, four samples used to turn positive of the virus which has now increased to seven samples. As per the data provided by the state health department, till Wednesday, as many as 1,35,694 samples have been tested in the state. Out of this 6.87% of them have tested positive for Covid-19. However, the detection rate was much lower until April 12. Out of the total 39,725 samples tested, only 4% (1,761) came positive of Covid-19. This is in the backdrop that more number of symptomatic patients are getting diagnosed with Covid within the containment zones, due to change in testing protocols.Following the protocol of the Indian Council of Medical Research, since April 12, the state health department has instructed all government and private laboratories not to collect samples from persons not showing any symptoms.This circular made it mandatory to test only symptomatic persons (who have cough, fever), people over 60 years of age who are high-risk contacts of Covid-19 positive patients whether they are showing symptoms or not, healthcare workers, pregnant women, patients on dialysis and chemotherapy. While asymptomatic high-risk contacts of positive patients can get if they develop symptoms, or after careful observation between 5 and 14 days of contact with an infected person. They are referred for home quarantine.On March 9, when Maharashtra witnessed the first three cases of Covid-19, the state was having a capacity of 100 tests per day but today, the testing capacity of the state along with private labs has been increased to 10,000 tests per day.“Earlier, we had noticed that despite coming negative in tests, people were turned positive after a few days. As we are testing more numbers of symptomatic patients, the cases of false reporting of positive have also plunged down,” Yadav said.The total number of novel coronavirus cases in Maharashtra on Wednesday rose to 9, 915 after recording 597 fresh cases, according to the state public health department. Active patients in the state now stand at 7,890 while 1,593 patients have been discharged or cured of the highly contagious disease.Public health experts have also praised the change in the testing pattern of the state government which has brought down the mortality rate closer to the actual average. “More number of symptomatic patients are getting detected at an early stage which has helped to provide treatment on time. Even countries like China and Italy had followed a similar protocol. With better detection rate, the epidemic curve will rise drastically but as they start recovering and containment of the spread of the virus, the graph will also fall down,” said Sanjay Pattiwar, independent public health consultant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/city-s-covid-detection-rate-rises-to-7-after-more-tests-in-containment-areas/story-euKpt4VOXQXGFqZgJC58PL.html
30-04-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body conducts lottery for CBSE, ICSE schools; broadcasts it live for parents||The education department of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) conducted a lottery for admissions to its newly opened Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) schools on Thursday morning. The lottery was conducted only with a select few officials from the department and was broadcasted online for parents. There were a total of 332 applications for the 308 seats in Woollen Mills Municipal School in Mahim, which is set to be affiliated to ICSE board. While lottery was carried out for junior KG to Class 1, all students who had applied for Classes 2 to 6 got in. For Poonam Nagar Municipal School in Jogeshwari (East), which is set to be affiliated with the CBSE board, there were over 2,000 applications for 308 seats. Of the total application 1,510 were found valid after scrutiny. Lottery for both of these schools was conducted simultaneously on Thursday. In both of these schools, each class has a capacity of 38 students. In the first year, these schools would run pre-primary to Class 6 under the new board. Students who have made it to the schools would get a text message on their parent’s phones. In the coming days, parents have to fill out a form to confirm admission. While the academic year for both these schools is set to begin in June, a decision with respect to the dates would be taken depending on the situation in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. Meanwhile, students would be given some online learning resources to keep them engaged. “This is a first-of-its-kind initiative for students under BMC, and we are happy that it is materialising,” said Sainath Durge, member of the BMC’s education committee. Admissions in both these schools would be free. Students who are admitted in these schools would have to study Marathi as a compulsory third language. A number of teachers, who are already teaching in BMC schools, have been selected through a rigorous process to become a part of the board. The move hopes to bring in more students to municipal schools, which over the years have been struggling to get students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-conducts-lottery-for-cbse-icse-schools-broadcasts-it-live-for-parents/story-0XE85YKvV2erxtGnLsS3eK.html
30-04-2020||Lucknow||90-year-old woman tests positive at private hospital in Lucknow||A 90-year-old woman, who was receiving treatment at a private hospital, tested positive for the coronavirus on Thursday.The woman, a medical practitioner’s mother, is the oldest Covid-19 patient in Uttar Pradesh till now. She has now been shifted to Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) in Lucknow.The woman was earlier admitted to Nishat Hospital on Wednesday morning after she complained of breathlessness. After the test report was received, the health department was informed about the development. Thereafter, health department officials directed the hospital administration to ask the staff who came in contact with the woman to go into quarantine.“The hospital is running only an emergency OPD for patients with non-Covid illness as our hospital has been listed for isolation facility with the health department. Our doctors and staff attended the patient with complete protective gear, including PPE kits, and we followed all the protocols strictly,” said Dr Tauseef Ahmad of the Nishat Hospital.After informing the health department about the positive case, the hospital first got the area sanitised on its own and then by the Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) staff.About a dozen medical staff of the hospital came in contact, seven of them directly, with the woman“They have been asked to stay in quarantine in the hospital,” said Dr Ahmad.“Each patient coming for admission is treated considering them to be coronavirus positive, until their test report turns out to be negative. This protocol ensures the medical staff remains safe,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, association of international doctors (AID).The patient was ill for the past few days and was brought to hospital when her problem aggravated. The health department is now looking into the contact history of the medical staff. The samples of the staff members and their families shall be taken. Besides, health teams will visit their homes and check them for symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/90-year-old-woman-tests-positive-at-private-hospital-in-lucknow/story-2kt6ojFqHpxJHcaX8qLNOI.html
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana cabinet gives nod to hike in bus fares||In a decision that is likely to draw public criticism during the ongoing health crisis, the Haryana cabinet, on Thursday, approved a 15-20 paisa per kilometre increase in bus fares for ordinary Haryana Roadways buses.The passenger fare for HVAC (heating, ventilation, air conditioned) buses would be increased to ₹1.50/km. The fare for intrastate luxury Volvo/Mercedes AC buses would be increased to ₹1.75/km.For the super-luxury Volvo/Mercedes AC buses operating on Chandigarh-Delhi-Gurugram route, the fare would be increased to ₹2.50/km. An official spokesperson said that there is a 40% increase in cost of operation of the Haryana Roadways. As a result of the increased costs, they are facing heavy losses. Losses in the ongoing financial year by January 2020 are pegged at Rs 726.21 crore.The spokesperson said that the minimum chargeable standard bus fare (including passenger tax) will be Rs 5. Freight for personal luggage will be half of the standard/ordinary bus fare per kilometre per 40kg. No freight will be charged for personal luggage up to 40kg weight. Fare for different stages of bus routes will be rounded off to the nearest rupee.As per the decision, the bus fare for ordinary buses in state will be increased from 85 paisa/km to Rs 1/km up to a distance of 100km and Rs 1.05/km for travel of more than 100km.The spokesperson said that bus fare in Haryana was last revised on June 30, 2016 when the gross standard fare was increased from 75 paisa/km to 85 paisa/km.Since the last revision, the operational expenditure has increased substantially, especially on account of expenditure towards staff, diesel, spare parts, tyre-tubes, lubricants, bus chassis, fabrication cost and insurance, he said.The expenditure per kilometre has gone up from Rs.37.48 in June 2015 to Rs 52.23 in December 2019. Also, 41 categories of citizens are travelling on a free and concessional basis resulting in around Rs 375 crore loss to the Roadways. The state Roadways has a fleet of around 4,294 buses, including 485 buses of kilometre scheme.ONLY BUSES, EMERGENCY RESPONSE VEHICLES TO BE BOUGHT IN THIS FISCALKeeping in view the financial crunch due to dwindling tax receipts during the lockdown, the cabinet has banned purchase of new official vehicles. Only public transport buses and emergency response vehicles including ambulances, fire tenders will be purchased in this fiscal. The cabinet also decided that in case of urgent requirement of new car or jeep, outsourcing or hiring of vehicles should be done.1% MARKET FEE, HRDF LEVIED ON SALE OF FRUITS, VEGGIESIn another decision, the cabinet has levied 1% market fee and 1% Haryana Rural Development Fund (HRDF) on sales of fruits and vegetables at mandis. The levying of both was abolished in February 2014 by the then Congress government. The state government expects to earn about Rs 100 crore from imposition of two levies. The decision is being criticised by the Opposition.ALLOTS 18 ACRE IN FARIDABAD TO JC BOSE VARSITYThe cabinet approved the proposal to allot 18 acre Faridabad MC land to JC Bose University of Science and Technology (YMCA), at present collector rates of Rs 3 crore per acre. Development charge at Rs 120 per square yards, yielding the MC about Rs. 56 crore will also be levied.NOD TO BUYING DEBT-RIDDEN MEDICAL INSTITUTEThe cabinet has also accorded ex-post facto approval to purchase of the Gold Field Institute of Medical Sciences and Research in Faridabad. The medical institute, run by Gold Field Shiksha Sansthan Faridabad, was bought in e-auction by the state after it had failed to clear bank loans and was put on auction for loan recovery. The institute was purchased by the state government on March 13 for Rs 128 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-cabinet-gives-nod-to-hike-in-bus-fares/story-OumT6PVOI1qMGZua5bZOqI.html
30-04-2020||City||Maharashtra constitutional crisis nearing end?||A day after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray rang up Prime Minister Narendra Modi and sought his intervention to end the impasse in the state over the former’s election to state legislature, a new option has opened up.Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Thursday requested the Election Commission of India to hold elections for nine seats to the state legislative Council at the earliest, with a view to end the political uncertainty in the state. A little before that, three ruling parties in the state, the Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress wrote to the EC seeking elections to the nine council seats that are to be elected by members of the state Assembly. The impending constitutional crisis in Maharashtra may get resolved if the EC accepts Koshyari’s and MVA’s request. It also means Koshyari is not keen on Thackeray’s election to the Council as Governor’s nominee.Thackeray was not a member of the state legislature when he took oath as the chief minister on November 28. As per the provisions under the Constitution, he was supposed to get elected to the state legislative Assembly or Council within six months, which is by May 27. If it doesn’t happen, he will have to resign as the chief minister.Thackeray had planned to contest the election to the Council, as nine members were retiring on April 24. However the election was postponed by the EC due to the Covid-19 outbreak. On April 9, the state cabinet recommended Governor to nominate Thackeray on the legislative council as two out of 12 seats to the council that are nominated by Governor were lying vacant. However, Koshyari is avoiding the same since the seats are nominated from among the achievers in art, social service, literature and other fields and he doesn’t want to nominate politicians, according to a Raj Bhavan official. Further, there are norms that Governor nominated members should not become ministers.Koshyari had also indicated that he would seek the Centre’s opinion on the issue as the state cabinet had advised him to nominate Thackeray as a special case considering the current health crisis in the state.It was then that Thackeray chose to talk directly to Prime Minister Modi. Following communication between a close aide of Thackeray and an official from PMO, Thackeray dialled Modi on Wednesday requesting his intervention. “The option (for council election) came up after the two leaders spoke,” said a senior Sena leader, seeking anonymity.On Thursday afternoon, two Sena leaders, party secretary Milind Narvekar, who was Thackeray’s intermediary with Koshyari, and urban development minister Eknath Shinde met the Governor and handed him letters written to the EC by the three parties and also a letter by Thackeray requesting Governor to recommend the EC to hold elections to council. Koshyari then immediately wrote to the EC requesting early election for nine seats to the council, according to information available.The ball is now in the EC’s court. The election authority is likely to seek union home ministry’s opinion before deciding on the request. “The Governor has made the request to the Election Commission to fill the 9 seats in the legislative council, that have been lying vacant from 24th April, with a view to end the current uncertainty in the State,”said a release issued by Raj Bhavan on Thursday evening.In his letter, Koshyari has stated that the Central Government has announced many relaxation measures regarding the enforcement of lockdown in the country. As such the elections to the council seats can be held with certain guidelines. In their letters, the three ruling parties said that on account of “peculiar extraordinary unforeseen facts and circumstances” Thackeray has not been able to get himself elected to the legislative council.They have also assured the EC that they would follow social distancing and other precautions that are required under the current circumstances.BJP leader and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis indicated that things might be sorted out in cooperation with the Centre. “We welcome Hon Governor @BSKoshyari ji’s decision to recommend the ECI to conduct the election of the 9 vacant seats of Maharashtra Legislative Council expeditiously. We are sure that the ECI, in consultation with Ministry of Home Affairs will take decision to take election ASAP,”he tweeted. “This will prevent Maharashtra from going into instability in the testing times of #CoronaOutbreak &will also uphold the values of our Constitution....This also underlines that in a democratic system, dialogue is of utmost importance,” he said. A Sena minister said it is likely that the election would be held unopposed once the EC clears it. “The developments have happened in less than a day after Thackeray spoke to PM Modi. If the election to the Council is held now, it would be clearly following the intervention by Modi. In that case, it is likely that the four parties--three ruling parties and BJP-- would informally decide on fielding nine candidates between them so that the entire exercise of getting 288 members of assembly to Mumbai for voting in the middle of Covid-19 outbreak can be avoided,” he said. He also said that the party is prepared to explore other options as well. It includes approaching the Supreme Court, seeking directives to the Governor. He said the Sena is hopeful that it need not execute MVA’s last option which is Thackeray’s resignation. “It would not come to that (Thackeray’s resignation as CM),” the leader said. If Thackeray resigns, he could be re-elected as the leader of the MVA coalition and form the government again amid the ongoing battle against the coronavirus outbreak in Maharashtra.Most MVA leaders however were sceptical about Koshyari’s move. “We would wait to see whether the EC holds election,”said a senior NCP leader. Two Sena ministers HT spoke to also expressed apprehensions. “Today’s developments mean Governor Koshyari is not accepting state cabinet’s recommendation to nominate Thackeray to council. If the Election Commission holds election for council, the issue would be resolved, but what if it doesn’t? Or what if it is legally challenged. The possibility of a crisis is not yet over,”said political commentator Pratap Asbe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-constitutional-crisis-nearing-end/story-cWfGKQyDbBWX7aLIHLszNP.html
30-04-2020||Mumbai||Hospitals can’t refuse patients without examination: Maharashtra government||After a number of complaints of hospitals denying admission to patients or delaying treatment, the Maharashtra government on Thursday issued an order that no hospital can turn away any patient without examination and required intervention under any circumstances. The order will come into effect from May 2.All private and government hospitals in the state have also been directed to check any patient who is entering the hospital premises, and shift or admit him, depending on the patient’s medical condition.Following the guidelines issued by the Centre, the state has also ordered shifting of all asymptomatic patients without co-morbid conditions to Covid Care Centres, whereas private hospitals can send such patients for home quarantine, but after proper counselling, states the order issued by chief secretary Ajoy Mehta on Thursday. The hospitals have been warned of action in case directives are not followed scrupulously. “Any patient entering the hospital premises for any treatment of Covid-19 or non Covid-19 ailment should be immediately checked in to casualty or screening clinic. After triage, the patient may be shifted or admitted. Depending upon the site condition, the staging area may be created for screening and triage of patients in isolation so that infections are not transmitted. No patient is to be turned away without examination and required intervention under any circumstances,” the order reads.The government has asked the directors of health services to prepare the standard operating procedure (SOP) for screening, transferring, admitting and discharging of patients. “Each patient needing hospital admission will be assigned a unique ID by the round-the-clock onsite team of the disaster management department (DMD) of the local body such as the BMC, without which admission cannot be granted. DMD should use this as a more accurate and efficient bed management in all hospitals,” it further states. “This will help in better calculation of beds in hospitals. So if any one calls helpline numbers, it will be easier to get details faster,” said a state health official.“For this, the state government has given them two days and hence the order will come into force from May 2,” said a senior official, wishing not to be named.“In order to decongest hospitals, all asymptomatic positive patients without comorbidity should be shifted to appropriate Covid Care Centres (CCC) immediately. All Covid-19 and non-Covid 19 hospitals are also directed to ensure that no admission is granted to asymptomatic positive patients without co-morbidity. Similar patients in private hospitals should be stamped and sent away for home quarantine after proper counselling, according to the Government of India guidelines,” it adds.The hospitals are also directed to collect swabs of all suspected Covid-19 patients admitted on top priority and ensure that reports are collected within 12 hours and ensure the patients are diagnosed as per clinical conditions and shifted to CCC, Dedicated Covid Health Centers (DCHC) for patients with mild symptoms and Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCH) for serious patients. In case of death of a Covid-19 positive patient, the hospital administrations are also directed to ensure that the body is shifted from the ward within 30 minutes and disposed of within 12 hours for which necessary processes have to be defined keeping in view the prevalent regulations.“In Mumbai, the mobilisation of the ambulances should be controlled centrally by the Disaster Management Department of the BMC,” states the order. This is being done to ensure ambulances can be made available to the patients without any delay, said the senior official.Health experts have welcomed the move. “Patients run from pillar to post seeking treatment, but due to the lack of a proper guideline, they are being refused treatment. Doctors and staff are clueless how to manage patients. This will be helpful, but there is also a need for its proper implementation,” said Dr Ravikant Singh, a health activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hospitals-can-t-refuse-patients-without-examination-maharashtra-government/story-k2Z4Oza5wEEv7xh5NkDj7H.html
30-04-2020||City||No Amritsar in expressway a fraud on residents: Punjab MP Aujla||Local MP Gurjit Singh Aujla on Thursday claimed that the clarifications by Union food processing minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal and Punjab public works department minister Vijay Inder Singla did not mean anything, as Amritsar had been excluded from the Rs 60,000 crore Delhi-Amritsar-Katra expressway project. Both Harsimrat and Singla have claimed that Amritsar will be connected with the expressway by a 65-km stretch of ‘Access Controlled Highway’ from Kartarpur town near Jalandhar. The ministry’s website does not have the city’s name. “This stretch was announced separately many years ago. It will not provide any extra advantage, as it will be laid along existing NH-1. Changing the plan by excluding the Amritsar district is a big fraud on residents, which will not be tolerated. I am ready to make any kind of sacrifice for this sacred city ,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-amritsar-in-expressway-a-fraud-on-residents-punjab-mp-aujla/story-yG0ySQqKhOhOnwl4RjSUcJ.html
30-04-2020||Mumbai||Allow liquor sale, open up realty sector to revive state economy, expert panel recommends||An expert panel, set up by the state government earlier this month, has suggested that sale of alcohol be permitted, and real estate and construction sector be opened, among other recommendations to revive the economy hit by the Covid-19 outbreak. The panel’s report, with recommendations to get the state economy back on track, is likely to be submitted to the government this week, said additional chief secretary, finance, Manoj Saunik. The panel, led by 11 retired and serving bureaucrats, was set up by the state cabinet to suggest ways to restart economic activity.“The panel has recommended that excise revenue should be tapped and hence sale of alcohol be permitted. Similarly, it has also called for opening up of the real estate sector and consider reducing the stamp duty to spur demand in this sector,’’ said a member of the committee, on condition of anonymity.The sale of liquor has been banned since the lockdown was implemented on March 25. The state government earns around Rs 17,000 to 18,000 crore annually from excise duty on liquor and an estimated Rs 26,000 crore annually from stamp duty and registrations. In this year’s budget, the state has already cut stamp duty levied on realty transactions by one per cent.The Covid-19 outbreak and the ensuing lockdown had brought the state economy and industry to a halt. With recent relaxations on April 20, industrial units are slowly re-starting their businesses.The state exchequer has lost an estimated Rs 40,500 crore revenue in March and April.“The committee has emphasised on maintaining safety protocols and containment strategies even as it has recommended seamless logistics and movement of goods, safe transport of labour required for industry, increased reliance on digitisation in the functioning of businesses and prepping for an effective kharif season,’’ said a former bureaucrat and a member of the panel.Focusing on the agriculture sector, the panel has recommended setting up of state and district control rooms to oversee kharif season preparations to ensure farmers get all inputs from seeds to credit/loans. It has also asked the state government to ensure that all Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees are kept open while following safety norms and suggested that the state seeks financing assistance from National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) for its co-operative banks.The panel stated that a whole new class of businesses has emerged and will continue to do well post the outbreak, and the government must recognise these new players and encourage them.“There could be a resurgence of the IT sector as they will be called on to provide back end services besides health, hygiene, pharma and a myriad of online players from food delivery apps to education technology. These are the companies, which will help to reignite the economy in the coming months,’’ added the former bureaucrat. The report will be considered by a ministerial committee, led by finance minister and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, which will also take a final call on implementing these recommendations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/allow-liquor-sale-open-up-realty-sector-to-revive-state-economy-expert-panel-recommends/story-un7g1QAVqcbSPLt87OnCMM.html
30-04-2020||Lucknow||Rope in premier institutes, pvt hospitals to increase testing capacity: Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said the option of roping in premier central and state research institutes for Covid-19 testing should be considered to increase the state’s testing capacity.Insisting that institutes such as Central Drug Research Institute (CDRI), Indian Institute of Toxicology Research (IITR), Birbal Sahni Institute of Palaeosciences (BSIP) (all in Lucknow) and Mathura-based Deen Dayal Upadhyay Veterinary Science University and Cattle Research Institute should be used for Covid-19 testing capacity, Yogi said the need of the hour was to take the state to the top in terms of its Covid-19 testing capacity in India.The chief minister was reviewing the situation following the lockdown at a meeting of his Team-11 at Lok Bhawan.He also said that private hospitals, which have capacity to treat Covid-19 patients, should be allowed to do so. He said a request in writing should be obtained from patients willing to get treatment in such private hospitals.He also ordered review of available logistics on a daily basis and said that UP’s border with other states should be completely sealed and vigilance should be stepped up in border areas.Stating that the UP government was in touch with other state governments, Yogi said that while migrant labourers Madhya Pradesh will be brought on Thursday, those from Gujarat will be brought back on Friday.He said contact should be established to bring back students from NOIDA and Delhi as well.Also, a list of students who wants to go back to their homes from Ghaziabad, NOIDA and Aligarh etc. should also be prepared.He said infra-red thermometers should be made available in all the districts for smooth check-up of migrant labourers returning to the state.He said portable ventilators should be arranged to meet the demand of additional ventilators.MOBILISE ADDITIONAL RESOURCE: CM TELLS OFFICERSLucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has stressed upon the need to mobilise additional resources and increase the cash flow in Uttar Pradesh.Reviewing the lockdown situation, Yogi said a high level committee should be set up to work out measures for resource mobilisation.Insisting that since the lockdown has affected economic activities, the option of mobilizing additional resources by making land free hold etc. should be considered. He said a policy to attract investment in various sectors should also be worked out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/rope-in-premier-institutes-pvt-hospitals-to-increase-testing-capacity-yogi/story-CXmwN1slS6GB07BbRIv8aJ.html
30-04-2020||Mumbai||Nine police personnel from Wadala station test positive||Nine police personnel from Wadala police station tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. “Nine policemen of the rank of constables, police Naik and head constables were tested on Wednesday and their report stated Covid-19 positive,” said Shahaji Shinde, senior inspector of Wadala police station. “They have been admitted to Gurunanak Hospital, Bandra, KEM Hospital, Parel and Bombay Hospital in south Mumbai,” he added.Few of them are above 50 years of age, said another officer.Close contacts of the personnel have been identified and were asked to home quarantine, the officer added. There are seven red zones, including the slums and chawls of Korba Mith Agar and Bangalipura, that falls under the jurisdiction of Wadala police station. The infected policemen were posted at these areas for providing food to the needy, including fruits for iftar and sehri during Ramzan and ensuring social distancing.The personnel are suspected to have contracted the disease on duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/nine-police-personnel-from-wadala-station-test-positive/story-uh0mV8F9dobvDBc9MmOysL.html
30-04-2020||Mumbai||HC allows doc with congenital deformity to pursue PG course||In a major relief for a doctor with a congenital deformity of the upper limbs, the state government on Thursday informed the Bombay high court (HC) that he will be allowed to pursue a post-graduate (PG) medical course in any non-surgical discipline.Assistant government pleader Kavita Solunke made this statement before the bench of justice Ujjal Bhuyan. She was responding to a petition filed by Dr Rajdeep Deshmukh, a 25-year-old Barshi resident.Dr Deshmukh had moved the HC through advocate Madhav Thorat seeking admission to a non-surgical PG medical course through the physically-handicapped category, as he is affected by the congenital deformity, leading to the shortening of the index and middle fingers of both his hands and feet.He had approached the HC after being declared ineligible for admissions to PG courses because of the deformities in his upper limbs. His petition stated that despite the deformity, his functional capacity was very strong and he was able to carry out all the routine activities without any difficulty.The HC on Thursday stayed the publication of Maharashtra’s first merit list for admissions to PG medical courses that was to be published on Friday. The stay order will continue till May 5 as some other petitions involving PG medical admissions are still pending before the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-allows-doc-with-congenital-deformity-to-pursue-pg-course/story-Kc5YZajVQnZBSlOFZbbNQI.html
30-04-2020||Lucknow||Migrants in Gujarat, U’khand and Rajasthan to be brought back to UP soon||The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday decided to bring back migrant workers from Gujarat, Uttarakhand and Rajasthan in the next few days even as migrants from neighbouring Madhya Pradesh were already being brought back.Students of UP, enrolled in educational institutions or coaching centres in Delhi, Noida and Aligarh, who wish to return home will be transported by roadways buses to their respective home districts.Addressing a press conference, additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed senior officers to prepare a plan to bring back migrant workers from Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttarakhand and Rajasthan to UP. The state government has received guidelines from the central government regarding transportation of migrants, he said. The arrival of migrants from Madhya Pradesh started on Thursday. One hundred buses of Madhya Pradesh government is bringing 3,000 migrants to UP and in turn the UP government is sending migrants of MP on 40 UPSRTC buses.The UP government plans to bring back 1 million (10 lakh) migrants from various states, Awasthi said.The state government has already transported 3 lakh migrants from Delhi border, over 12,000 migrants from Haryana, and brought 10,500 students from Kota in Rajasthan and sent home 15,000 students from Prayagraj to various districts, he said.Chief Minister expressed concern over the migrants wayfaring or riding bicycles to reach home in UP. He called upon the migrants to have patience and wait for a few days as the state government was committed to bring them back home. Those walking home might face problems as the border is sealed and police personnel have been directed not to permit entry of people from other states, he said.The migrants have to report to quarantine centres in the districts they are staying, get himself registered and the officers managing the centres will prepare a list and conduct medical test of the migrants.The chief secretary and home department is in regular touch with officers of other states to bring back the migrants and the migrants and students of other states in UP will also be sent to their respective states, Awasthi said.All migrants will be brought to UP after screening and medical test. The UP government has established 7 lakh quarantine centres across the state and the chief minister has directed officers to increase the number of the centres to 10 lakh.The UP government is also collecting details of migrant workers -- name, address, mobile numbers, Aadhaar number etc -- to prepare a database of such workers who migrate to other states in search of employment, he said.After completing 14 days in quarantine centrers, the workers will be sent home and will have to undergo another 14-day home quarantine.The DMs of all districts have been directed to hand over a food-kit to the migrants when they leave the centre for home after completing 14 days quarantine.The chief minister has, meanwhile, directed the DM and commissioner of police of Noida and DM and SSP of Aligarh to prepare a plan to send students home. Also, the state home department has been directed to coordinate with Delhi government to bring back students to UP, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/migrants-in-gujarat-u-khand-and-rajasthan-to-be-brought-back-to-up-soon/story-kiPaTJuO6VHj5gXrHZ7qLI.html
30-04-2020||Mumbai||BMC plans isolation facilities at Mahalaxmi Racecourse, Lower Parel||One of the most affected administrative wards in the city, G South (Mahalaxmi, Worli, Lower Parel), which has recorded the highest numbers of Covid-19 cases, is preparing to scale up its isolation facilities. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has finalised Mahalaxmi Racecourse for setting up of a 200-bed isolation facility to treat Covid-19 patients. The parking lot at the Racecourse is being looked at to set up the treatment centre. The Lower Parel Railway ground will also be turned into a 100-200-bed isolation facility.A senior civic official confirmed that the Mahalaxmi isolation facility will have lightweight cardboard beds which can support a weight of more than 200kg and are cheaper. “The ground of the racecourse has been ruled out for the isolation facility since it has several infrastructural challenges of its own. Each of the beds will have oxygen support. There will be two-three intensive care units (ICUs) set up there,” said the official.Former MLA and Shiv Sena leader Sachin Ahir said, “We are looking at other options at Bandra-Kurla Complex, Mulund, and Goregaon to find set up more isolation facilities. A lab testing unit will be set up at the National Sports Club of India (NSCI) facility” At the NSCI facility, a negative pressure technology – an isolation technique to prevent cross-contamination from room to room – is being set up to ensure the safety of staff. The BMC is also planning to set up Safest Booths – phone booth-like setups to conduct swab testings safely – across the city. The booths are designed to help health workers stay safe as they do not come in direct contact with the patients.State cabinet minister and Worli MLA Aaditya Thackeray told HT, “We even started X-ray and pulse oxymeter checks along with screening of maximum people through fever clinics. Safest Booths are ideal designs for quick testing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-plans-isolation-facilities-at-mahalaxmi-racecourse-lower-parel/story-SEtl7yyaN4bLXkEofxRSdO.html
30-04-2020||City||UK announces seven more flights to evacuate stranded Brits from Punjab||The UK on Thursday announced seven further charter flights to bring over 2,000 British travellers stranded in India due to the coronavirus pandemic lockdown back home to the UK.All the new flights are between Amritsar and London to cater to the thousands still stranded in Punjab, with a daily flight planned every day between May 5 and 11. Once these flights are completed, over 15,000 British travellers will have been brought back from India on 59 government-chartered flights, the UK’s foreign and commonwealth office (FCO) said. “I would like to thank the government of India for their help in making it happen,” said Lord Tariq Ahmad, FCO minister of state for South Asia and the Commonwealth.The UK government has previously announced 52 charter flights bringing back over 13,000 people from India. The latest tranche brings that total to 59 flights, catering for 15,000 people and over 10,000 of those have already travelled, with the remaining amount due in coming weeks. “Our charter programme has already helped more than 10,000 British travellers return home from India by ensuring flights to the UK have run every day since April 8, with thousands more due to depart in the coming days,” he said.As with the last round of charter flights, seats on the new planes will be allocated to those who have already registered via the government’s online booking portal – CTM. Jan Thompson, acting high commissioner to India, said: “This fifth round of flights brings the total number of planes we have organised from India to 59.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/uk-announces-seven-more-flights-to-evacuate-stranded-brits-from-punjab/story-mFUW603zL4KnBqUCDplU5I.html
30-04-2020||Mumbai||Death toll doubles in last two weeks even as state, city mortality rate drops||Even as the mortality rate due to Covid-19 has declined in the city and state, the total number of deaths has more than doubled in the last two weeks. This is because of the substantial jump in the number of positive cases reported since mid-April, reveals data compiled by the state health department.The death toll in the state touched 432 on April 29 from 178 deaths on April 15. In Mumbai, the death toll increased from 112 to 270 in the same period.Nearly 29% or 79 deaths of the total 270 in the city were reported in just five days, from April 25 to 29. In the same period, the city saw 1,595 new cases.Mumbai recorded the highest single-day death figure of 26 on Wednesday, followed by 25 on Tuesday. This is considerably more than the previous high of 16 casualties in a single day, recorded on April 12.Overall, in Maharashtra, between April 15 and 29, the total positive cases went up from 2,690 to 9,915. The state health department and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) claimed mortality rate has decreased in the state as well as Mumbai.In Maharashtra, mortality rate decreased from 6.61% to 4.36% from April 15 to 29. In Mumbai, mortality rate in the same period declined to 4% from 6.37%.“The death toll is going up as the number of cases is increasing. So, even as mortality rate is coming down, the death count is increasing,” said Anup Kumar Yadav, commissioner, National Health Mission, Maharashtra. The data compiled also shows that the death ratio among all age groups has doubled in the last two weeks and the death rate ratio has increased the most for the 31 to 40 age group, with the number increasing to 27 on April 29 from eight as of April 15.However, death toll was highest in the age group of 51 to 60 and 61 to 70 years with deaths increasing to 108 from 52. For patients aged 61 to 70, deaths increased from 52 to 101. Dharavi reports 25 new cases, 7 Nair hosp staff test positiveOn Thursday, Dharavi reported 25 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total tally to 369, with 18 fatalities. Seven security staff from BYL Nair Hospital also tested positive. Dr Mohan Joshi, dean of Nair Hospital said infected security guards are asymptomatic and stable.According to BMC, the number of containment zones in Mumbai increased to 1,459 on Thursday.BMC has also removed 331 containment zones from its list, as these areas completed the 14-day quarantine period.Meanwhile, appreciating the efforts of community health volunteers (CHV), BMC has decided to increase the salary of 3,500 volunteers by ₹4,000 per month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/death-toll-doubles-in-last-two-weeks-even-as-state-city-mortality-rate-drops/story-UXyfv3MktP0aumoK8zy0kK.html
30-04-2020||City||Community kitchen in Bhiwandi struggles to provide food to 6,000 labourers||Around 6,000 migrant labourers and daily wage workers in Bhiwandi went hungry on Wednesday as the community kitchen in Bhiwandi’s Padma Nagar, where they had been having their meals, ran out of food grains. Bhiwandi, a powerloom town, is 30km away from Mumbai, and has 6 lakh migrant labourers. The lockdown has affected the funds of various social organisations, who have stopped food parcels at many places.“Earlier, around 80 social organisations had been providing food parcels to labourers and daily wagers daily in Bhiwandi. After the second lockdown, some of them stopped distribution and so more labourers come for meals to the community kitchen. Although the state government started community kitchens, they are not able to feed so many labourers,” said Sudhir Sonawane, social worker, Bhiwandi.Santosh Shetty, local corporator of Bhiwandi Nizampur Municipal Corporation, said they have appealed to the government to provide more food grains.“The supplies for meals are given daily taking into account the number of people to be fed. However, with fewer social organisations providing food, the number of labourers coming to the community kitchen is increasing each day,” he said.“We count the number of people to be fed a day before, but we cannot refuse if more turn up,” said Shetty.Some labourers had only leftover dal on Wednesday. “We hardly get one proper meal a day. It is an everyday struggle to get food,” said Ramesh Gaud, 34, a labourer from Uttar Pradesh who works in a power mill in Bhiwandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/community-kitchen-in-bhiwandi-struggles-to-provide-food-to-6-000-labourers/story-qkzNWvbOuJQw93QEUR3cDN.html
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab unions flay task force for ‘misleading’ government on employee wages||The Punjab UT Employees and Pensioners Joint Front on Thursday flayed the task force of experts for “misleading” the Punjab government on the pay scales of employees in the state.At a meeting, the conveners of various federations and staff unions, which are part of the joint front, opposed the suggestions given by the expert committee and the comparison of salaries of Punjab employees with those of the central and Haryana governments.“The committee’s claim that Punjab employees get 25% higher salary is completely wrong,” said Sukhchain Singh Khehra, president of Punjab civil secretariat staff association. The joint front conveners also rejected the state government’s appeal to employees to take voluntary cut of up to 30% in salaries for three months, stating that they had not got pay revision as per the 6th State Pay Commission and their two previous DA instalments were also pending. They also criticised the central government’s decision to freeze the dearness allowance of its employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-unions-flay-task-force-for-misleading-government-on-employee-wages/story-gTxbKUn8UzLbhLFNfkQsaP.html
30-04-2020||City||Ghaziabad: 60-year-old woman tests positive for Covid-19, dies the same day||A 60-year-old woman who tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Thursday died around 6pm the same day at a private hospital in Ghaziabad. However, the health department said that the woman’s death was not due to Covid-19 and attributed her death to cardiac arrest. She was a resident of Pratap Vihar.A woman councillor from Vasundhara, a man from Khoda and a Delhi traffic police head constable also tested positive on Thursday. Officials said that the total tally of Covid-19 positive patients stood at 66 on Thursday.“The 60-year-old woman had been admitted to a private hospital in Nehru Nagar two days ago and her sample was taken for testing on April 29. The report came back positive on Thursday. But her cause of death is cardiac arrest. She was also a diabetes patient and had high blood pressure as well. We will not consider this a case of death due to Coronavirus. She had comorbid conditions, though,” Ghaziabad’s chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta, said.Similarly, a young man from Loni had died of a kidney ailment at a hospital in Delhi on April 8; he was suspected to be infected by Covid-19. The health department maintains that his reports are yet to be received from Delhi.Meanwhile, the residents’ welfare association (RWA) office bearers of a high-rise in Vaishali Sector 4 alleged that there was laxity and a delay in providing ambulances to two police personnel who tested positive for Covid-19—a sub-inspector of the Delhi Police had tested positive on Wednesday, while the traffic police head constable tested positive on Thursday. Both are residents of Park Avenue Society in Vaishali Sector 4.“I tried to call the number of the Ghaziabad health department for about one-and-a-half hours, but there was no response. After they finally picked up, they assured me that an ambulance would reach soon but it did not arrive till 9pm on Thursday. I got myself tested after one of my neighbours, a 57-year-old sub-inspector with the Delhi Police, tested positive on Wednesday. I live with my wife and daughter and have been staying in isolation in one room while waiting for the ambulance,” the 42-year-old head constable said.“When I got in touch with the officials, they said that an ambulance will take me to ESI Hospital in Sahibabad,” he added.The Ghaziabad health department officials said that the 57-year-old sub-inspector was not added to the tally of positive cases in Ghaziabad as he was admitted to a hospital in Delhi, but the case of 42-year-old head constable would be added.AK Chaubey, the president of the Park Avenue RWA also alleged a delay in the provision of ambulances for the two Delhi Police personnel after they tested positive for Covid-19.“The SI of Delhi Police waited for over three-and-a-half hours on Wednesday but the Ghaziabad health department did not send an ambulance. His son had to drive him to a hospital in Delhi. There has been utter negligence and laxity on part of the health department as it seems that they are not serious about patients and are dealing with this in a very casual manner,” he said.“We will inquire if there was any delay in sending ambulances. However, in both cases, I personally arranged ambulances for the Delhi police personnel. However, any delay would not have created problems as they both were confined to their homes. The case of 42-year-old head constable of Delhi police will be added to our tally on Friday. Our ambulance will shift him to ESI Hospital in Sahibabad,” Dr Gupta added.Meanwhile, a 45-year-old Bharatiya Janata Party woman municipal councillor from Ward 74 in Vasundhara also tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday.“She had been social distancing and following precautions during the lockdown. But she developed a fever and cough after which we got her tested. We don’t know from where she picked up the infection. Many women from the nearby Prahladgarhi village have been coming to our house to seek food and ration. I suspect that my wife came in contact with someone who was infected. The health department should check these women as well,” the councillor’s husband said.Dr Gupta said that the third patient who was added to the tally of Covid-19 positive patients is a man from Khoda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-60-year-old-woman-tests-positive-for-covid-19-dies-the-same-day/story-CSuCc8BCyihTNwXGCJYTwI.html
30-04-2020||City||Namesake of Covid +ve man admitted to hospital, discharged after 1 hour in Tarn Taran||In a major goof-up, health and police officials on Thursday forcibly ferried a 27-year-old man of Chhichrewal village in an ambulance and got him admitted to the Tarn Taran civil hospital as a Covid-19 patient in a case of “mistaken identity”.The man, who was discharged from the hospital an hour later, was the namesake of another man of Sursingh village in the district who had tested positive for coronavirus after returning from Huzur Sahib, Nanded. The Chhichrewal man, who works as a nurse in a private hospital in Amritsar, said the officials forcibly pushed him into an ambulance even as he pleaded that he was not the person they were looking for. Immediately after taking him to the hospital, police had also sealed his house.On Thursday, the district reported seven new cases of Covid-19 — all Nanded-returnees. Two of the seven cases were reported from Sursingh village, which has already been declared as containment zone as five cases were reported from the village on Tuesday.“At around 9 am, the officials came to my house to take me to hospital. I told them that I am not the person they were looking for, but they forcibly threw me in the ambulance in which a positive patient was already present. The same ambulance dropped me at my home when I was discharged from the hospital. I am afraid I might have got infection,” he said while taking to HT over phone.Police said the mix-up took place as the Chhihrewal youth had also returned from Hazur Sahib and his samples were also taken for the testing.“I came back from Hazur Sahib 14 days ago and my samples were taken on Wednesday and the report is awaited. I am healthy and my 14-day quarantine period has been completed. Now, though my report will come in the coming days, I will have to get my re-testing done,” said the victim. Chabhal police station SHO Prabhjit Singh, said, “His name was mismatched by the doctors. We just followed their instructions. Besides dropping him at his home, we have now lifted the barricading outside his house.” Deputy commissioner (DC) Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal said: “The man was hospitalised due to mistaken identity. Now the right person has been admitted to the hospital.”TESTED +VE 2 DAYS AGO, WOMAN FOUND HEALTHY IN FRESH TEST Meanwhile, two days after a 24-year-old woman, who delivered a baby boy at the government hospital in the district on Saturday, was tested positive for coronavirus, the report of her fresh test came negative on Thursday.Tarn Taran civil surgeon Dr Anoop Kumar said the report of her newly born child has also come negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/namesake-of-covid-ve-man-admitted-to-hospital-discharged-after-1-hour-in-tarn-taran/story-GzPa5uH8rqYjmP4cny4RHO.html
30-04-2020||Gurugram||Three women, including two health workers, test positive||Three women, including two health care workers in Sector 39, were confirmed to have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Thursday. The total count of persons infected with the SARS-CoV-2 virus in Gurugram has reached 57, of which 19 are being treated and 38 have recovered. The third person to test positive on Thursday is a homemaker from Sector 12.With the number of cases increasing in Sector 39, the district health department has chalked out a plan to use the Rapid Testing Kits (RTK) recently procured by the state government from a South Korean company. The team was to start the antibody tests on Thursday itself in Sector 39 and Jharsa, the most affected containment zones, however, with the detection of the two new cases in Sector 39, the department went ahead with the collection of the nose and throat swabs for RT-PCR in the area. Till now at least 11 cases have been reported from the two areas. Gauging the critical condition of the area largely inhabited by health care workers, the health team collected 33 samples for the frontline RT-PCR tests from the area on Thursday. Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer, said, “Two members of the health staff from Medanta Hospital, residents of Sector 39, and a woman from Sector 12 tested positive for Covid-19. In Sector 39, we collected samples from 33 persons who were in contact with the two health workers. Rapid testing will also start to trace the asymptomatic cases in the area.” The husband of the Sector 12 patient killed himself hours after she tested positive, the police said on Thursday. His samples were also collected posthumously by the health department and a report is expected on Friday.Over 90 samples have been collected for the RT-PCR test from Sector 39 and Jharsa in the last couple of days, a rapid response team member said. “Our field staff has been surveilling the area. If they find any symptomatic patient, they immediately inform the medical officer,” he said.Additionally, samples of 40 journalists were taken at the CMO office. A sample collection van provided by an online pharmacy was deployed at the old civil hospital, near the bus stand, where journalists from electronic and print media arrived o provide samples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/three-women-including-two-health-workers-test-positive/story-4MpdGjesdaiC2GRYRgcqTP.html
30-04-2020||Gurugram||Faridabad reports its first death due to Covid-19||A 68-year-old man, who was diagnosed with coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday, died on the same day in Faridabad while undergoing treatment for several other ailments, the district administration said on Thursday. Officials said he was the first Covid-19 patient to die in the district, which has reported a total of 53 cases so far. Yashpal Yadav, deputy commissioner (DC) of Faridabad, said that the man was undergoing treatment for several comorbidities, including lung infection, diabetes, hypertension and respiratory disease, as a result of which his treatment got difficult and he passed away on Tuesday. “A private laboratory had tested him positive on the same day. However, we had sent his samples to a government hospital, which confirmed his positive status on Thursday,” he said. “The man was suffering from several comorbidities. However, he died due to the highly contagious coronavirus disease. This is first Covid-19 death recorded in the district,” said Yadav.Faridabad also reported another case of Covid-19 on Thursday. Previously, on Wednesday, four cases were reported, including a 44-year-old woman and her 18-year-old son from Sector 28. The woman’s husband, who is a CEO of a health institute in Delhi, had tested positive on Monday.Another 46-year-old man from Badkhal village, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in March at Nizamuddin in Delhi, also tested positive on Wednesday. His first test had come back negative. The fourth case was that of a 25-year-old woman from Dabua colony, who worked with an NGO in Delhi.All four had links to Delhi and have been admitted in Faridabad’s ESIC Medical College and Hospital in Faridabad. Faridabad has sealed its five borders with Delhi till May 3 to stop the movement of people entering the city from the Capital, where more than 3,000 positive cases of Covid-19 have been reported so far.Yadav said at least 819 people in Faridabad have been put under surveillance till date and 2,488 people are on surveillance for Influenza-like Illness. “We had sent the samples of 2,882 people, of which 53 have tested positive, 2,665 have tested negative and the results of 164 are awaited. Five people are currently hospitalised,” said Yadav.At least 3,753 people are currently under home quarantine in Faridabad, said the police. The infected people have been admitted in ESIC Medical College and Hospital in Faridabad, while 1,139 have completed a surveillance period of 28 days. Officials said their team has traced 499 close contacts of the people who tested positive so far in the district.KK Rao, Faridabad commissioner of police, said they have formed special teams for keeping a strict vigil in and around the city and monitoring movement of people in identified zones. “Police personnel are working with medical teams at the micro-level to stop the spread of coronavirus and have formed teams for surveys. After an ASHA worker and police personnel were thrashed by some miscreants during a door-to-door survey, we have ensured that police team is deployed in all the areas where the survey is being conducted,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/faridabad-reports-its-first-death-due-to-covid-19/story-Qbeoq05CJdAHgEfJAEmnRO.html
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab resumes Shahpur Kandi dam construction||The Punjab government has resumed construction work on the Shahpur Kandi dam project, after due assessment on the ground with regard to labour availability at the site and Covid-19 safety precautions.The work, which had been suspended due to the nationwide lockdown, resumed in the presence of A Venu Prasad, principal secretary, water resources, on Wednesday. The dam, being constructed on the Ravi river by the state government at an estimated cost of Rs 2700 crore, will reduce the outflow of the river water to Pakistan, while benefiting both Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir, once it is completed, according to an official release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-resumes-shahpur-kandi-dam-construction/story-M8motN1y8tkfCd9tKmZKGN.html
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||Preparing for the worst, Punjab to set up Covid care centres with 20,000 beds||The Punjab government is setting up Covid-19 care centres with 20,000 beds across the state, in what officials described as preparations for the “worse case” scenario.A Covid-19 care centre is a makeshift facility for persons who have been clinically diagnosed as mild cases. As per the guidelines issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare, every centre is to be mapped to one or more dedicated Covid hospitals for referral purposes. Each centre will also have a dedicated basic life support ambulance equipped with sufficient oxygen support on a 24x7 basis.These isolation centres are being established in hostels of meritorious schools, colleges, and universities, both government and private, across the state.In the first phase, 28 such centres with a total of 12,000 beds are being readied in all 22 districts to prepare for a large Covid-19 outbreak, if and when it happens, in the state. The care centres or isolation wards will be in addition to around 5,000 beds, including 922 intensive care units (ICU) beds, to become available in 54 government Covid-19 hospitals in the next two months.STATE OF READINESSRajat Agarwal, the member convener of the Covid care committee, said these centres are being set up in phases as part of preparations for the worst-case scenario so that we are not caught unaware if there is a large breakout. “Then, these 5,000 hospital beds will not suffice and patients with mild symptoms will be kept in these makeshift hospitals for immediate medical care. The centres will be kept in a state of readiness but operationalised only when required,” he said. The first care centres will be started on a trial basis in about a week in Ludhiana followed by Amritsar, Jalandhar and Mohali.The spread of Covid-19 in Punjab, which has been under curfew since March 23, is presently much slower than as observed in several other states with 380 positive cases as on April 29 and a doubling rate of 13 days. The state’s count saw a spike of 105 on Thursday as several of the 4,000-odd pilgrims, who were stranded at Gurdwara Hazur Sahib in Nanded (Maharashtra) for weeks and been brought back in the past three days, tested positive, setting alarm bells ringing in official circles.SPIKE IN COUNT OMINOUSSimilarly, 3,500 students and workers are returning to Punjab from Kota and Jaisalmer (Rajasthan) and fresh information has been received about another 2,900 workers stranded in different areas of the state. At the same time, the state government has, while extending the curfew for two weeks, decided to allow the easing of lockdown restrictions for shops, industrial units and construction activities in non-containment zones with strict adherence to Covid-19 safety protocols. The lockdown exit, even if calibrated and phased, poses its serious challenges as there are apprehensions that it may fuel the virus spread and lead to more positive cases. Though only 356 beds are occupied presently with not a single patient in the ICU, the ministry of health and family welfare, as mentioned in the expert panel’s report on lockdown exit, has projected that by May 24, the total cases will jump to 2,400 in the state against the availability of 5,860 beds. As per Niti Ayog’s projections, the state will have a higher load of Covid-19 positive cases by May 31 and not enough beds in hospitals to cope with the projected number.CARE CENTRES TO HOUSE RETURNEESThe health department has decided to thrown open the Covid-19 care centres for Punjabis who are returning from other states and are required to be quarantined in designated quarantine centres set up in most districts due to the sudden surge in their numbers. “In case the dedicated quarantine facilities fall short for the persons to be quarantined, the district administration may use 50% of the capacities of these centres for quarantine of these people,” according to an order issued on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/preparing-for-the-worst-punjab-to-set-up-covid-care-centres-with-20-000-beds/story-qBHHfjMDa6xCLKHRHmaV5H.html
30-04-2020||City||3 hurt in attack on police team in Hisar||A police team was reportedly attacked in Peeranwali village of Hisar late on Wednesday when it went to check illegal hooch production. Among the injured are sub-inspector Satya Naryan and female constables Manjeet and Poonam. More than 50 persons of the village have been booked, while three have been arrested.A police spokesperson said an IPS undergoing training at Sadar police station, Vikrant Singh, got a tip-off that villagers were involved in making hooch (illegal alcohol) in the village. A team was formed and sent to sweep the village. He said some villagers pelted stones at the team of SI Satya Naryan. The superintendent of police (SP), Hisar, Ganga Ram Punia said, “On Thursday morning, a team again visited the village and seized a large amount of lahaan. We have also booked more than 50 people for attacking a police party. Three persons have been arrested and further investigation is underway.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-hurt-in-attack-on-police-team-in-hisar/story-qG1QudKpMDRTIQlBmDYWAK.html
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 lockdown: Stubble burning returns to haunt Punjab region||Stubble burning has once again returned to haunt the region and authorities are finding it tough to put a check on farm fires amid the lockdown.For official agencies, it is difficult to move as well as get assistance from the police force which is largely engaged in maintaining the lockdown orders pan Haryana. As per the information from the Haryana pollution control board, 228 active fire locations have been detected in the state so far since the monitoring began on April 15. The figure during the corresponding period in 2019 was 713, top officials say.Since April 15, maximum cases of stubble burning, 63, have been reported in Sirsa district, followed by 32 in Jhajjar, 24 in Palwal, 20 in Hisar, 17 in Fatehabad, 14 in Sonepat, nine each in Bhiwani and Gurugram, seven each in Karnal and Rohtak, six each in Jind and Charkhi Dadri, four in Panipat, three in Nuh, two each in Rewari and Yamunanagar and one each in Ambala, Faridabad and Kaithal.With the wheat harvesting on its peak in the state, the number of cases was also been increasing with each passing day as 85 such fires were reported on April 29 as compared to 35 the previous day.SPECIAL AWARENESS DRIVEOfficials in the Haryana state pollution control board claimed that a special campaign has been launched in the state to make the farmers aware of the bad impacts of stubble burning on human health and soil and this helped in reducing the number of stubble burning cases to 203 from 582 witnessed in the corresponding period last year.Member secretary of Haryana pollution control body S Narayanan said, “The actual wheat stubble burnings are yet to be confirmed by field verification staff, who have been advised to do the same regularly. A special awareness drive through advertisements and hoardings has also been launched and we are hopeful of much reduced stubble burning this season.”On being asked whether the farmers were taking advantage of the lockdown, he said, “It is not just punishments that will put a check on stubble burning. Most of the farmers are now aware of the issues and we have been educating them vigorously for the last couple of years.” “Of course, officers of district committees are engaged in duties related to Covid-19 and might not be able to spare more time for field inspections, but still, we are hopeful of the cooperation from farmers and that is why the cases are far less this year,” he added.However, ground-level functionaries of the state agriculture department said they have deputed officials for regular monitoring of stubble burning and a fine of Rs 2,500 per acre is being imposed on the violators. “Out of the six sites in Karnal, two have been confirmed as of stubble burning while the remaining ones were accidental fires,” said Karnal deputy director agriculture Aditya Dabas.On the maximum cases being reported in Sirsa, deputy commissioner Ramesh Chander Bidhan said, “No one is allowed to burn wheat stubble. We have urged farmers not to get involved in stubble burning. The local administration will deal strictly with those who are burning stubble after reaping the crop.”He said the subdivisional magistrates were keeping strict vigil in their areas and if they were found not doing their duty properly, the higher authorities will take departmental action against them too.(With inputs from Bhaskar Mukherjee)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stubble-burning-returns-to-haunt-punjab-region/story-WeovtNaOMW2YfYNXR7aQ0J.html
30-04-2020||Delhi||High Court may turn to fans in effort to control Covid-19 spread||The Delhi High Court is considering switching off the centralised air conditioning system in its premises and instead procure sufficient number of pedestal and wall fans this summer. This would be to reduce chances of infection by the Sars-CoV-2 virus responsible for the Covid-19 pandemic.A senior offcial of the Delhi High Court, who did not wish to be quoted, said that the matter is open for discussion and the decision is yet to be made in this regard.In a meeting held on April 28, a committee of four judges of the high court, headed by Justice Hima Kohli, officials from public works department (PWD) informed that if an infected person entered the area having central air-conditioning, there was a likelihood that the virus, exhaled by them, may remain airborne and may, in turn, infect others.The committee was told that even if the court installed ultra violet germicide irradiation devices, it could not completely reduce chances of infection.They also said that even the Supreme Court had switched off its centralised air conditioning system.They suggested that the court procure sufficient quantity of pedestal or wall fans and to install them at appropriate places in all the blocks.“Since the windows and doors of court building may be required to be left open for proper circulation of air during the working hours, PWD shall ensure that all such windows have proper net/mesh so that no insects/mosquitoes etc. enter inside the court building,” the committee said while also directing the PWD to conduct a survey and submit a proposal regarding the required quantity of all such types of fans in every block.The committee was also informed that one sanitisation machine, which takes body temperature and also dispenses sanitiser liquid, is likely to be received. “Committee also resolves that besides the two handitrons already ordered…,two cart-type moveable devices, stated to be of around ₹4.5 lakh each, be procured. These, as per PWD, would he very handy for disinfecting the files, books, walls and other surfaces. PWD shall procure these devices subject to fulfillment of formalities and shall take steps for obtaining administrative approval and expenditure sanction at the earliest,” the minutes of the meeting read.It also directed the Registrar General to get in touch with the Director General of Health Services and Chief Medical Officer and to apprise this Committee about the possibility of conducting of pool-testing for COVID-19 for staff and visitors of the courts.The committee also said that every District & Sessions Judge, in coordination with the local Bar, would create facility for video conferencing in their respective District or court complex, if not already in place. This would cater to those advocates and litigants whose matters have been listed for hearing but who are not in a position to handle video conferencing from their respective homes or offices.The committee also resolved that all those advocates, who visit this court or courts subordinate to it for ‘video-conferencing hearing’ need not wear coats, bands and ties. However, they shall adhere to the remaining dress code as prescribed under Advocates Act, 1961. Similarly, wearing of coats and ties is dispensed with for Registry officials of this court till further orders.On April 24, a plea was filed by advocate KC Mittal, chairman of Bar Council of Delhi, seeking alternate arrangement plea which had sought an alternative arrangement for the use of centrally air conditioned buildings in the national capital in wake of the corona epidemic. He had also sought arrangements in the court so that the virus does not spread further and further the regular work is also not hampered.Following this, the Centre has filed its reply highlighting the detailed guidelines issued by the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) in accordance with the report of ISHRAE, which has worked on the issue of centrally air conditioning alternatives to stop the spread of corona. The matter would be heard on May 1 where the HC report would also be taken into consideration.The HC committee also said that since the lockdown has been made effective in the courts, no hearings had taken place in the Family Courts and hence hearing should start in these courts through video conferencing. It said that cases, in which arguments have already been heard and the order/ judgment has been reserved, shall be given priority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/high-court-may-turn-to-fans-in-effort-to-control-covid-19-spread/story-aqZvMaEv86lDmBAWaqjVgK.html
30-04-2020||Delhi||Another CISF constable tests positive for coronavirus||A 34-year-old Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) constable tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday. The constable was sent All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, for treatment. Senior CISF officers said the constable, who was attached with Delhi Metro’s Quick Response Team (QRT) and was only involved in administrative work, had been living in isolation for the past ten days. 12 CISF personnel who were in touch with him have been sent to CISF’s quarantine facility in Narela.According to the officers, the constable used to live in the CISF barracks in Rithala. He wasn’t feeling well for the past ten days, but had shown no symptoms of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), they said.“As a precautionary step, for the past ten days he had been staying in an isolation facility built within the same premises. He decided to get himself tested for Covid-19 on Wednesday. As soon as his reports declared him positive for coronavirus, he was shifted to AIIMS, Delhi. His family has been informed and 12 other personnel who came in touch with him recently were sent to CISF’s quarantine facility in Narela,” a senior CISF officer, who did not wish to be named, said. This is the second case of coronavirus reported from CISF in Delhi. Earlier, on April 23, a CISF constable who was posted at the Delhi airport tested positive for the virus. He was sent to AIIMS, Jhajjar for treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/another-cisf-constable-tests-positive-for-coronavirus/story-gU5m99CyuAeTMXGcZKN0TK.html
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Punjab CM orders village-level quarantine of returnees||Amid grave concerns expressed by various deputy commissioners (DCs) over several Covid-19-infected persons coming in from outside the state in recent days, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday ordered village-level quarantine in designated buildings, while issuing strict instructions for compulsory institutional quarantine of all those coming from other states.During a video conference with DCs and police chiefs of all districts, he made it clear that no one coming from outside should be allowed to go home without completing the 21-day quarantine period. “Where possible, those found positive and negative should be segregated in different buildings altogether,” he suggested.The CM directed the officials to work with sarpanches to identify schools and other buildings for quarantine purpose in villages. He also appealed to sarpanches and panchayats to increase village-level surveillance to check further spread of the disease. As many as 3,525 pilgrims from Nanded (Maharashtra), and 153 students from Kota (Rajasthan) returned to Punjab in the past four days, in addition to 3,085 labourers received at the Fazilka-Rajasthan border.Of those who had returned from Nanded, test reports had been received for 577 persons, of whom 20% were found positive. Of the 105 fresh cases reported in the state on Thursday, 98 are from outside.Ruling out any relaxation at the state borders, which continue to remain strictly sealed, Amarinder said there was no question of allowing any buses to enter Punjab without permit/approval from the respective states which are sending vehicles to pick up their people. He directed the officers to ensure strict enforcement of the sealing at the borders.The Ludhiana DC called for permission to industries not located in focal points and industrial estates to also open up, in designated areas as per the master plan. The CM agreed, pointing out that with 95% of the state’s industry in Ludhiana, it was important for them to start operating in order to revive the economy of Punjab.Describing the prevailing situation as unprecedented, of the kind he had not seen even in the 1965 and 1971 wars, Amarinder warned that the problem was likely to get aggravated in the coming days, going by the global trends of the spread of the disease. India had been fortunate to keep the cases under control so far, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cm-orders-village-level-quarantine-of-returnees/story-GCf55aqfKOX8pZSOZLsSgP.html
30-04-2020||City||Gangster Bhagwanpuria brought to Batala for questioning in murder case||The local police brought gangster Jaggu Bhawanpuria, lodged in Patiala Central jail, on a production warrant for questioning in the murder case of former Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) sarpanch, Dalbir Singh in Dhilwan village on November 18 last year, on Thursday. Dalbir, was gunned down allegedly by neighbour Balwinder Singh, his two sons, Mandeep Singh and Major Singh, along with six more accomplices.Batala SSP Opinderjeet Singh Ghuman said, “The family members have been accusing Bhagwanpuria. We sought his remand to explore all angles. A local court has remanded him to three-day police custody. He has been shifted to the CIA police station, where we will question him.” The murder had generated political controversy with the SAD accusing a minister in the state government, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, of being behind the incident, with Randhawa rubbishing any such claims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gangster-bhagwanpuria-brought-to-batala-for-questioning-in-murder-case/story-YdwvCEaGKudzvvAVeBOSHO.html
30-04-2020||City||Cotton sowing starts, Punjab plans to increase area by 37%||Amid covid-19 outbreak, the state agriculture department has set a new target to bring 5.5 lakh hectare under cotton cultivation, almost 37% more than last year’s 4 lakh hectare. Sowing in South Malwa districts, the cotton belt of the state, started this week, with a delay of seven days and it is expected to peak from the next week. Wheat crop has been bumper and is at the last leg of harvesting. Canal water in key districts of Bathinda, Mansa and Muktsar was released on April 27. Fazilka chief agriculture officer Manjit Singh said, “Cleaning of minor canals of Malooka and Arniwala is being done and water will in these channels is expected to be reached by Saturday. Cotton has been sown in about 500 hectares and the estimated area of 1.25 lakh will be covered by May 20,” he said. A progressive cotton grower from Bathinda’s Bajak village Baldev Singh said the farming community hoped for support from state agencies for easy availability of seeds and canal water supply during the lockdown. “As the state is boosting crop diversification, the agencies should also ensure that farmers will get a fair price for their cotton produce,” he said.State agriculture director Sutantar Kumar Airi told HT that cotton sowing in Punjab will complete by May 20. The state authorities have coordinated to arrange 27 lakh packets of cotton for the targeted 5.5 lakh hectare land.“Earlier, the department had set a target to cover 5 lakh hectare under cotton but now we are trying to make it to 5.5 lakh in the state. Our teams have been motivating farmers for the last several months to shift from paddy to cotton,” said Airi. In Bathinda, the cotton area will be stepped up from 1.40 lakh hectare in 2019 to 2 lakh hectare. In Fazilka, the department has planned to increase procurement from 92,000 hectare to 1.25 lakh hectare this year, said Airi. In Mansa, the department has aimed to increase the area by 1 lakh hectare, an increase of 20,000 hectare. Muktsar is expected to see an increase from 72,000 hectare to 1.05 lakh hectare.The official said the department planned to more than double the area under cotton cultivation in Barnala, Sangrur, Faridkot and Moga from the previous season of 4,000, 10,000, 3,000 and 122 hectares, respectively. “Time of sowing cotton is suitable till May 31 and farmers need not worry. Delay in sowing is insignificant as it happened due to prolonged picking of bumper cotton last year,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cotton-sowing-starts-punjab-plans-to-increase-area-by-37/story-QBC2ySku3Msj4Ecw4ztPZK.html
30-04-2020||City||Covid crept up on ‘healthy’ Nanded-returnees in Mohali||A 2,200-km bus ride filled with hope and optimism ended in despair for many pilgrims from Takht Hazur Sahib, Nanded, Maharashtra, two days after they reached Mohali. We had full faith in almighty and never thought we would catch the infection, they said, after 15 of them tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19), bringing to the fore the risks and dangers of transporting people in such situations.In the past two days, 57 pilgrims have arrived in Mohali, out of which 60% are women. Most of these are from villages including Premgarh near Aerocity, Manakmajra, Amrala, Badana, Raipur Khurd and Sainimajra. All 15 who tested positive have been kept at the Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur for 14 days. The district case tally now stands at 84.Speaking to HT, a 58-year-old man from Premgarh, who tested positive, said, “Seventeen members of our family, including those from other villages, had also accompanied us on the religious tour, and 13 of them have tested positive. We had no symptoms as all of us were hale and hearty. I have yet to believe that I am a Covid patient and could have passed on the infection to others in the bus.”Another among the patients, a 55-year-old woman from Amrala village in Dera Bassi, said, “We left for Hazur Sahib on March 18 and were happy to visit the holy shrine. Stranded in Maharashtra due to the nationwide lockdown, we had no problem at all, but coming all the way to Mohali and being told that we have been infected has shattered us. I was excited to meet my family members, but now again I have to stay away from them for 14 days.”A 54-year-old patient from Premgarh said, “Not even a single person in the bus had any health problem, not even a mild headache. We travelled for more than 2,200km, all fine, but fail to understand how reports have come out positive. There must be something wrong with the reports.”Meanwhile, Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said, “Most of the patients tested positive are asymptomatic and all are responding well to the treatment. We have to quarantine them to stop further spread of the disease.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-crept-up-on-healthy-nanded-returnees-in-mohali/story-0FX6FSeejUMdSISEuDhUJM.html
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||Stubble burning a new worry in Punjab, 28 cases reported in two days||With 28 cases of wheat stubble burning reported over Wednesday and Thursday, a first for this season, the state government has warned farmers of strict action if they continued doing so. The pollution due to stubble burning will impact lungs of residents, already a concern, as covid-19 also attacks the same body organ. The Punjab Remote Sensing Centre (PSRC) that monitors stubble fires said six cases were reported on Thursday, with 22 on Wednesday (April 29). In 2018 and 2019, the number of cases on April 29 was 307 and 58, respectively. According to data that Punjab Pollution Control Board has released, six cases were reported in Bathinda, four in Kapurthala, two each in Mansa and Muktsar, and one each in Barnala, Faridkot, Ferozpur, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, and Moga on Wednesday. The location for Thursday’s cases had been released yet. “As you all know, we are in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic which attacks our lungs and could even lead to death. Smoke erupting from the farms on burning of stubble negatively impacts lungs, so let us decide to completely refrain from burning stubble this season,” said Punjab agriculture secretary Kahan Singh Pannu, in an appeal to farmers. He added farmers who defied the law would be proceeded against under Section 144 of the CrPC. Officials added cases of stubble burning are likely to increase in May, as procurement has been delayed by 15 days. “We fear the number of cases will pick up in May,” said Krunesh Garg, member secretary PPCB, adding that despite staff crunch surveillance has been increased. “Rabi season is comparatively cooler than the kharif for stubble burning, however, this time due to late wheat harvest and the shortened window for making nursery for paddy transplantation, there are concerns,” said PRSC director, Brijendra Pateria.Satnam Singh Pannu, president of a Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) faction said, “The government has to provide us an incentive of Rs 100 per quintal for not burning stubble.” PROCUREMENT CROSSES HALFWAY MARK With wheat arrivals touching 75 lakh tonne, almost half of the 135 lakh tonne expected to arrive has reached 4,100 mandis of the state. Of this, 73.1 lakh tonne has been purchased. Last year, the arrivals had crossed 80 lakh tonne on the corresponding day. “We are satisfied. At this rate, we hope to wind up the entire operation within ten days,” said director, food and civil supplies, Punjab, Anindita Mitra. She added procurement had almost ended in Ferozpur, Patiala, Khanna, Fatehgarh Sahib and Mohali districts. The Centre has relaxed procurement norms for shrivelling and lustre loss, but with value cut. For shrivelling, the norm has been stretched up to 16% from previous 6%, but with a value cut on MSP per quintal of between Rs 4.81 and Rs 24.06, depending on the actual extent of shriveling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stubble-burning-a-new-worry-28-cases-reported-in-two-days/story-kVfIHN7T0nd9TiLwgpikAK.html
30-04-2020||City||Navi Mumbai records 24 new Covid cases||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) reported 24 new cases on Thursday taking the total positive cases in the city to 230.Among those who tested positive is a doctor from Sanpada and working at Shatabdi hospital in Govandi; a police constable deployed at Trombay police station; a 30-year-old ward boy of Tata hospital in Mumbai; two traders from APMC; a 31-year-old accountant working at APMC grain market and a 65-year-old resident of Vashi whose son is a doctor in a pharmaceutical company.Panvel City Municipal Corporation reported five new cases on Thursday, taking the total cases to 69.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-records-24-new-covid-cases/story-g9e5Xydj16rHbzpJJXLUFM.html
30-04-2020||City||BFUHS allots PG seats, asks students to report by May 4||The Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) at Faridkot provisionally allotted the postgraduation (PG) course seats to the NEET-qualified students on Thursday. The medical university has asked the students to report to the respective allotted colleges by May 4.The BFUHS is conducting the first-round of online counselling for admissions to post-graduate courses in seven medical and twelve dental colleges of the state.“The candidates can report to the allotted college physically for taking admission. As reporting to the allotted colleges could not be possible for some students due to lockdown, we have provided online option. They can join the allotted college by sending a confirmatory email about acceptance of seat and uploading scanned copies of relevant documents and pay the requisite fee on the university account,” said vice-chancellor Dr Raj Bahadur.He added, “All admissions made online will be deemed provisional, to be confirmed subject to verification of documents at the time of physical joining.” “However, if any student failed to report at allotted college for joining by May 4, the provisional seat allotted to them will be treated as cancelled and no claim thereafter will be entertained,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bfuhs-allots-pg-seats-asks-students-to-report-by-may-4/story-SUjGsWticR0ITKilHZckyN.html
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||Bains writes to cooperation minister, accuses Verka of looting dairy farmers, public||Accusing the Verka milk plant authorities of looting dairy farmers and general public on purchase and sale of milk, Lok Insaaf Party chief-cum- MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains on Thursday wrote a letter to Punjab cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa demanding an inquiry into the same.In the letter addressed to Randhawa, Bains alleged that Verka authorities have reduced the rate on which the plant purchases milk from the farmers by Rs 6. However, the plant is still selling the milk on same rates to the public. This way the plant management is looting around Rs 2 crore on daily basis, he stated in the letter.Bains alleged that before the lockdown, Verka used to purchase milk (4.50% fat) at Rs 36 per litre, but after the lockdown the rate has been reduced to Rs 30. “The dairy farming sector is already reeling under losses amid lockdown and the plant management has further increased their problems by reducing the price of purchasing the milk,” he said.Demanding that the state government should mark an inquiry in the matter, Bains said that the plant management should either increase the rates on which the milk is purchased or it should reduce the price of milk which is sold to the common man.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bains-writes-to-cooperation-minister-accuses-verka-of-looting-dairy-farmers-public/story-c51BbdRxiGoRlAO6vtmFXI.html
30-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Vegetables may get costlier as sealing of borders chokes supply||Delhi’s wholesale markets are dealing with a gradual disruption in the supply of fruits and vegetables, which is set to send retail prices soaring, as neighbouring states have sealed borders with the Capital.Even as the nation heads towards possible conditional and phased relaxation of lockdown curbs after May 3, Haryana’s Faridabad sealed its borders on Wednesday while Gurugram will close up from Friday morning. Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad had sealed their borders last week.According to the data shared by the agriculture produce market committee (APMC), the three major markets in Delhi — Azadpur, Ghazipur and Okhla — have recorded a 25-40% drop in fresh stocks of fruits and vegetables, including bottle gourd, ridged gourd, brinjal, okra, coriander leaves, cucumber, musk melon and water melon, at a point that is considered the start of the season.As many as 15 traders in Delhi’s Azadpur market test Covid-19 positive on Thursday and 43 contacts have been quarantined. Test results of over 100 persons associated with the market are awaited, while over 500 have been screened. Two medical teams have been deployed to round-the-clock monitoring.The market has around 2,800 registered traders and around 12,000 individuals are engaged in various roles, such as accountants, porters, daily wage labourers engaged in loading and unloading of goods, etc. The Azadpur market is Delhi’s lifeline for fruit and vegetable supply.Many traders have shut shop, demanding that the market be spread across 100-odd acres and shifted in parts to other locations. The current area should be sealed, as supply to the market has dipped.Adil Khan, the chairperson of the Azadpur APMC, said that on Wednesday, the market received 5,000 tonnes of fruits and vegetables, a fall from the 7,500 tonnes, which is the average during the lockdown. Supply improved slightly on Thursday, as the movement of essential vehicles was allowed across borders, with the market having received 6,000 tonnes of fruits and vegetables.“At the wholesale level, we are taking all possible measures to ensure that prices of fruits and vegetables do not shoot up. Other than that, the market is being sanitised more frequently now, every few hours,” Khan said.Anil Malhotra, elected member of the committee that regulates the Azadpur market said that such fluctuation in arrivals within such a short span hardly depicts any improvement in supply. “The crisis is visible as more than 200 traders have refused to open their shops. People are scared,” he said.In regular times, at least 3,300 trucks supply at the Azadpur market every day, while the other two major agriculture produce markets in the city, at Ghazipur and Okhla, receive around 400 and 200 trucks a day, respectively, APMC office-bearers said.The Ghazipur market, according to data shared by APMC officials, has witnessed around a 25% dip in supply over the last three days, compared to the lockdown average.Haji Yamin, a trader at Okhla agriculture market, which majorly caters to south and southeast Delhi areas, said that most of the vegetables at the wholesale market are supplied from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, but with the sealing of the Haryana border at Badarpur, supply has taken a hit.He said that usually, around 200 trucks and small vehicles ferrying fruits and vegetables visit the market, but this has dipped by 35-40% after the sealing. This will eventually hit the retail supply and prices are likely to go up soon, he said. “Seasonal vegetables and fruits, such as bottle gourd, ridged gourd, brinjal, okra, coriander leaves, cucumber, and fruits, such as musk melon and water melon come to the Okhla wholesale market from neighbouring towns in Haryana, via the Faridabad border. On an average, the market witnessed the arrival of around 1,500-1,800 tonnes of vegetable and fruits per day earlier this week,” Yamin said.Another trader at the Okhla market, Qutumsher Ali, said that at present, green vegetables are being supplied only from neighbouring towns of Noida, Jewar, Hathras and Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh, besides local farmers cultivating on the Yamuna floodplains and bordering villages. “Even the supply of potato, water melon and musk melon from Agra and Mathura via Faridabad border is also affected. If the situation continues, the wholesale prices of vegetables may witness a hike,” Ali said.The ripple effects of a broken supply chain are already visible at retail vegetable and fruit markets. Traders at Mehrauli vegetable market said that the supply of seasonal vegetables was already hit due to lockdown and the sealing of borders has made things worse.Prakash Singh, a vegetable trader at Mehrauli market, said that vegetable supply to south Delhi markets is majorly from the Okhla market. “Vegetables and fruits coming from UP and Haryana via Faridabad border are not reaching the market. So, traders of small-scale markets are not able to get proper supply. If this continues, vegetables and fruits are set to get dearer,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-vegetables-may-get-costlier-as-sealing-of-borders-chokes-supply/story-808jjC5JKaEmTNHjERw8SP.html
30-04-2020||Lucknow||UP preps to evacuate lakh of migrants from Gujarat, U’khand and Rajasthan||The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday said it will launch a massive evacuation drive to bring back migrant workers from Gujarat, Uttarakhand and Rajasthan in the next few days even as those from Madhya Pradesh have started to arrive.Students of UP, enrolled in educational institutions or coaching centres in Delhi, Noida and Aligarh, who wish to return home will be transported by Uttar Pradesh roadways buses to their respective home districts.Addressing a press conference, additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed senior officers to prepare a plan to evacuate migrant workers from Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttarakhand and Rajasthan who have been stranded due to the lockdown.The state government has received guidelines from the Centre on the transportation of migrants, he said. The arrival of migrants from Madhya Pradesh started on Thursday. One hundred buses of Madhya Pradesh government are bringing 3,000 migrants to UP and in turn the UP government is sending migrants of MP in 40 UPSRTC buses.The UP government plans to bring back 10 lakh migrants from various states, Awasthi said.“The state government has already transported three lakh migrants from the Delhi border, over 12,000 migrants from Haryana and evacuated 10,500 students from Kota in Rajasthan and sent home 15,000 students from Prayagraj to various districts,” he said.“The Chief Minister has expressed concern over the migrants wayfaring or riding bicycles to reach home in UP. He called upon the migrants to have patience and wait for a few days as the state government was committed to bring them back home. Those walking home might face problems as the border is sealed and police personnel have been directed not to permit entry of people from other states,” Awasthi said.The migrants have to report to quarantine centres in the districts they are staying, get themselves registered and the officers managing the centres will prepare a list and conduct their medical tests.The chief secretary and home department is in regular touch with officers of other states to bring back the migrants. Students of other states in UP will also be sent to their respective states, Awasthi said.All migrants will be brought to UP after screening and medical tests.The UP government has established quarantine centres across the state to house seven lakh migrants and the chief minister has directed officers to increase the centres’ capacity for 10 lakh.The UP government is also collecting details of migrant workers -- name, address, mobile numbers, Aadhaar number etc -- to prepare a database of such workers who migrate to other states in search of employment, he said.After completing 14 days in quarantine centres, the workers will be sent home and will have to undergo another 14-day home quarantine.The district magistrates of all districts have been directed to hand over a food-kit to the migrants when they leave the centre for home after completing 14 days quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-preps-to-evacuate-lakh-of-migrants-from-gujarat-u-khand-and-rajasthan/story-YHZfx8rqgL4RUzLpAQFl0J.html
30-04-2020||City||Pilgrims were screened regularly, says Takht Hazur Sahib management||The Takht Hazur Sahib Management Board and the management of another gurdwara in Nanded, Maharashtra, from where pilgrims have returned to Punjab have said that they had ensured that the pilgrims stayed safe, and followed all mandates of social distancing, as long as they stayed in their accommodation. With some of these pilgrims testing positive for covid-19, adverse and negative remarks have been made, on social media, against the pilgrims and these holy places. Takht Hazur Sahib is one of the five Sikh temporal seats. Calling such remarks unfortunate, Takht Hazur Sahib Management Board president Bhupinder Singh Minhas told HT over phone, “We followed all guidelines of the government to prevent the spread of covid-19. We adjusted 332 persons in 200 rooms of our serais. We did not allow them to come out of the room. Even for partaking of langar, we allowed them to move out only in groups of 20, with social distancing. We also had their general medical checkup conducted twice.”He added, “Linking the spread of the virus to the holy gurdwara is not fair. Had the governments evacuated these pilgrims faster, such a scenario will not have arisen. Neither pilgrims nor gurdwaras are responsible. This issue should not be given a communal angle.”Baba Balwinder Singh Kar Sewa Wale, who manages Gurdwara Langar Sahib in Nanded, said, “We got all pilgrims screened thrice. Before leaving for Punjab, all were screened and found fit. We don’t know what happened on the way back that caused infection.” Most pilgrims were staying at the serai of this historic gurdwara, in the vicinity of the Takht Hazur Sahib. “The sangat wanted to return, but had no option. It took one-and-a-half month for the governments to approve their going home,” Baba Balwinder added.Quarantine Nanded pilgrims in gurdwara serais, instead of deras: Longowal to govt After some groups of pilgrims returning from Nanded were quarantined in area-level Dera Radha Soami congregation centres in Majha, the Shiromani Gurdwara ParbandhakCommittee (SGPC) president Gobind Singh Longowal on Thursday urged the Punjab government to quarantine them in serais of gurdwaras instead of deras. “The SGPC is with the administration and no need will be left unfulfilled. The administration has quarantined Nanded-returnees at gurdwaras of Patiala, Mukatsar, Sangrur and Sultanpur Lodhi. It should do it at other places as well,” Longowal added. “Efforts to bring back pilgrims, who were stranded at Nanded, due to the lockdown, are welcome. It is unfortunate that some people are making negative comments on pilgrims, which makes them feel alienated,” the SGPC chief added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pilgrims-were-screened-regularly-says-takht-hazur-sahib-management/story-MZ7O36Nx6dH13DWj1KOXKM.html
30-04-2020||City||UP cop among six held for liquor smuggling||The Ghaziabad police on Thursday arrested six persons, including a UP police constable, for allegedly smuggling liquor in Kavi Nagar area. The officials said that they recovered about 135 cartons of liquor along with two SUVs, a car and a truck from the possession of the suspects.Liquor shops have been banned during the country-wide lockdown in force to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease Covid-19.The suspects were identified as Muzaffarnagar constable Rohit Baisla and his other five accomplices – Narendra Yadav, SatishYadav, Mukesh Ahirwar, Rajkumar Sareen and Saleem. They added that mastermind, Har Vir, is yet to be arrested.“The constable is currently on duty in Ghaziabad. We got information that some vehicles were carrying smuggled liquor and we raided a godown in Kavi Nagar area from where about 135 cartons of liquor was seized. The constable is believed to have planned and executed the smuggling. He would sit inside the cars in uniform so that vehicles could easily pass police checkpoints,” said Avnish Kumar, circle officer (CO – city 2)The cops seized a Jeep Compass, a Tata Safari, a Swift and a truck from the possession of the suspects.“Our teams are trying to track Har Vir who is absconding. Once he gets arrested he would be able to tell from where the liquor was procured and where it was to be supplied during the lockdown. Investigation is on in the case,” CO added.The suspects were booked in an FIR which was lodged under the provisions of the Excise Act and the Disaster Management Act at Kavi Nagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-cop-among-six-held-for-liquor-smuggling/story-QJuu0ER6dc1W9E9K3E0heK.html
30-04-2020||Noida||24-year-old woman kills herself in Noida’s Phase 2||A 24-year-old woman allegedly killed herself at her house on Sunday in an area that comes under the Phase 2 police jurisdiction. The police said her body was found Monday morning and no note was recovered from the spot.The incident was reported from a village where the woman lived with her husband and younger sister, 20, in a rented house. According to police officers, the family is from Bareilly and the husband had gone there before the lockdown and was unable to come back to Noida.The sisters, who earlier worked for a private company nearby, were stuck at home in Noida due to the lockdown.“The two sisters were sleeping on the terrace on Sunday night. When the younger sister woke up in the morning and came downstairs, she found the woman hanging from a fan in a room. The sister immediately called the police helpline,” said Farmood Ali Pundir, station house officer, Phase 2 police station.The police said a team was rushed to the spot and the woman’s body was sent for an autopsy. “The reason behind the suicide remains unclear. Even the sister could not think of anything that was troubling the woman. She said that there was no history of any mental health disorder and that everything seemed fine. The autopsy report will ascertain the cause of death,” said the SHO.However, police officers said the family is economically weaker, and three had lost their factory jobs amid the lockdown. The financial hardships and the husband’s absence may have led the woman to take the extreme step, though the reason behind the extreme step will be clear only after a thorough investigation, they added.The woman’s family has been informed about the incident and her body will be handed over to the family after the autopsy. No criminal complaint has been filed in the case so far, police said.Gautam Budh Nagar does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 from ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 from Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/24-year-old-woman-kills-herself-in-noida-s-phase-2/story-iUWOf9GdwP1lvVuXv6HimM.html
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||Amarinder wants Centre to arrange special trains to send back migrants||After the Centre allowed the return of stranded migrants and others to home states, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to arrange for point-to-point special trains to send them back.The chief minister’s request to the Prime Minister is significant as the state has over 10 lakh migrant labourers, mostly from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, with 7 lakh in the Industrial hub of Ludhiana alone. A majority of them have been without any work or income from the time the Punjab government imposed curfew on March 23 to check the Covid-19 spread, bringing all economic activities to a half.Amarinder, in his letter to PM, said estimates indicated that nearly one million workers would need transport to go back to their states and the only feasible option in the circumstances was to arrange special trains. “Given the large number of workers stuck due to the lockdown, use of buses for their transportation will not work,” the CM wrote to the PM, citing the Union home ministry’s instructions of April 29 regarding the movement of migrant workers, pilgrims, tourist and other persons.If these figures on migrant workers longing to return home are correct, the exodus will not only be a serious setback for the state’s efforts to restart industrial units, which have been lying shut for over one month, but also add to the worries of farmers who are preparing their paddy sowing after harvesting wheat under the shadow of Covid-19. Of the 2.52 lakh registered industrial units in the state, only 3,600, or say 1.4%, have started operations will lower capacities despite repeated appeals and assurances of the state government.Industries director C Sibin said factories were already facing a shortage of labour due to Covid-19-related fear psychosis and their return to their home states would further aggravate the problem. “There is no clarity on when they will return to work,” he said.Similarly, the farmers are also headed for a tough time in the upcoming paddy transplantation starting from June 20. Owing to curfew, many labourers have not come back after Holi festival, and those who are here are planning to leave. As per the estimates of the state agriculture department, 12.5 lakh labourers are required to transplant paddy over 75 lakh acres in 30 days. “The upcoming situation is worrying, but we still have 50 days for transplantation. We have started efforts to deal with the situation,” said agriculture secretary KS Pannu. Amarinder, who also had a video conference with the district chief of civil administration and police, directed all deputy commissioners to prepare state-wise data of migrant labourers to coordinate their movement. “Though data is still being collated, approximately 70% of them hail from Bihar. The movement of such large numbers is possible only through trains, with proper screening to be done at the time of departure,” he said.The CM said a large number of migrant workers who had come from Bihar, UP, and Jharkhand intended to return to their respective states because most of them either lost their jobs or could not find work due to curfew.Also, a decision has been taken to assign one officer to each state to coordinate their return. In response to concerns expressed over shortage of food packets in some districts, Amarinder directed the food department to increase the quota of rations to be distributed to migrants and non-smart card holders.MIGRANTS’ JOURNEY TO START FROM MAY 5The Punjab government on Thursday said the outward movement of stranded persons in Punjab will start from May 5.The state government has issued standard operating procedures for outward movement of those stranded in the state. “As per the SOPs, within 48 hours of receipt of this letter each DC shall get filled pro forma from each willing person who wants to go out,” according to an official spokesperson. The pro forma is available online.He said once a person has filed the pro forma on link for his family/group, he/she will be given a system generated unique ID for the full family/group. By 9am of May 3, all the districts should get complete information filled online by all the interested persons.The spokesperson said access to backend of the link will be provided to all DCs by Dr Sumit Jarangal, member, state COVID control room in a couple of days. “When the process of data collection is on, the DCs should simultaneously prepare for setting up an adequate number of health check-up camps to cater to such persons who are desirous of moving out. The screening should be completed by May 4 night at all cost,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amarinder-wants-centre-to-arrange-special-trains-to-send-back-migrants/story-An5MD9gCwM2urH2LDf5W5K.html
30-04-2020||Noida||UP govt asks officials to prepare plan to take migrant workers home||The Uttar Pradesh government has directed the Gautam Budh Nagar officials to chalk out a plan to ferry migrant workers to their respective home towns. The move comes after the government realised that in spite the restrictions in place on account of the lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19, many migrant workers are walking to their villages, thereby putting theirs and their family’s lives at risk. The Gautam Budh Nagar administration and police are chalking out a strategy to take them home. The UP government has been told to follow instructions from the ministry of home affairs about transporting migrant workers, who want to return home as they are jobless and are facing uncertain future.“Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath is concerned about the welfare of migrant workers, who are either in Noida or other cities of the state. As we have received the guidelines from the ministry of home affairs, the officials in Lucknow and all districts have been tasked to chalk out a strategy to take migrants home while following social distancing rules,” Satish Mahana, industries minister, Uttar Pradesh, said. He said all top officials including district magistrates, police brass and senior officials, who are in charge of districts are preparing the data on migrant workers.“All migrant labourers will be kept in 14-day quarantine before being send to their homes. Our government has developed adequate quarantine facilities in all districts so that they are kept in isolation. There will be adequate provision of food, maintenance of hygiene and adequate beds in these centres,” Mahana said. In Noida, there are at least 1.5 lakh migrant workers and in Greater Noida there are at least 70,000 migrant labourers, who are being sustained by government’s bodies, including the Noida authority, Greater Noida authority, police and the administration. The police and the district administration officials need to make a list of who all will go home in the first phase. “Those who want to go home should arrange their own transport facilities as many are ready to walk back to their villages,” a police officer, requesting anonymity, said. The Greater Noida authority chief executive officer Narendra Bhooshan, who is nodal officer from the UP government to look after migrant workers from the state who are stuck in Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh, said in the first phase, the state wants students to be transported to their home towns.“The UP government has written to all state governments, where workers are stuck to know the exact number of such people. Once we get the list, we will coordinate and provide them help. We hope to get the list as soon as possible,” Bhooshan said. The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration, meanwhile, is busy on data collection of students and other workers.“We are doing the job of data collection on migrant workers and students, who may want to go home. As soon as we get the state government’s specific guidelines on this, we will do the needful. We will soon be ready with data on this,” Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar, said.Many migrant workers are seeking the help of others to understand when they will get buses or cabs to reach their homes.“We are jobless for the last one and half months. We are not getting regular food for our families living at a Sector 135 construction site. We stare at uncertainty because we are not sure what will happen to us. We want to go home to our village in Chhatarpur, Madhya Pradesh. If the government will not help, then we will start walking home,” Kamta Anuragi, a woman construction worker, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/up-govt-asks-officials-to-prepare-plan-to-take-migrant-workers-home/story-wzTgr8iGdzYTsGglU1W2PP.html
30-04-2020||Noida||Nine-month pregnant woman found positive for Covid-19; admitted to GIMS||A nine-month pregnant woman has been found positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Gautam Budh Nagar. The 27-year-old patient is from the Cleo County Society in Sector 121 of Noida and was admitted at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences(GIMS) in Greater Noida on late Wednesday night.The husband of the patient on Thursday morning tweeted that his pregnant wife is facing problems at the GIMS, because of common toilets and the presence of other male patients in the ward. The MLA of Jewar Dhirendra Singh took note of the tweet and contacted the director of GIMS to ensure that the woman doesn’t face any problems. After this intervention by Singh, the woman was shifted to another ward meant for female Covid-19 patients. “She was admitted to the hospital on late Wednesday night, and after keeping her in the observation, she was shifted to the women’s ward. So far as toilets are concerned, there is no issue. Currently, there are four Covid-19 patients and five toilets are available. They are separate for men and women. She must have entered the wrong toilet by mistake,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, director, GIMS.“I had spoken to the director to ensure that the pregnant woman doesn’t face any problem. He assured that she will be taken care of,” said Dhirendra Singh, MLA, Jewar. The sample of the husband has also been taken for testing.According to the senior health officials, the woman was admitted to GIMS as the hospital has appropriate facilities to tackle Covid-related pregnancy cases. On April 20, a 33-year-old Covid-19 positive woman from the Tech Zone-4 area of Greater Noida gave birth to a baby boy at GIMS, Greater Noida. The woman’s husband was a doctor with Jaypee hospital and officials think that he must have been the carrier.On Thursday, district administration also faced criticism after an ambulance dropped off a middle-aged man Rajender Kumar on the roads near the community health centre in Dadri after getting discharged from GIMS.According to the chief medical officer(CMO) of GB Nagar, Kumar was admitted at GIMS on April 20 as a Covid-19 suspect. He was also a tuberculosis patient. His reports came negative for Covid-19 and he was discharged on Thursday. “He was allegedly dropped off by an ambulance in Dadri, where he was found alongside the road. As soon as the local health officials and police came to know about the man, he was again admitted at GIMS,” said Dr Deepak Ohri, CMO.Officials have said that they are not aware of the ambulance which dropped off the man on the Dadri road. “We are trying to ascertain the details of the ambulance responsible for this insensitive action. The district magistrate has ordered an enquiry by an additional district magistrate in the matter and has directed to take strict action against the ambulance personnel and other officials responsible for such an irresponsible action,” added Ohri in his statement.The GIMS director said, “The person has been readmitted but not in the Covid-19 ward as he is negative. He is a TB patient. We are not sure if the ambulance was of GIMS or a private one. We are trying to identify the ambulance in question,” said Gupta.By Thursday night, the health department had notified 2,161 travellers. Officials have collected a total of 3,592 samples. A total of 145 cases have been reported positive by late Thursday night . Seven new cases included the pregnant woman and two more persons from the JJ Colony of Sector 8 in Noida. Details of other patients are not available.88 patients have been discharged.Presently, there are 56 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Around 736 persons are under institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/nine-month-pregnant-woman-found-positive-for-covid-19-admitted-to-gims/story-qtBFLwrsRNrvCnjwSsnpQJ.html
30-04-2020||Lucknow||77 more Covid-19 cases in UP, total cases in state mount to 2,211||As many as 77 new Covid-19 cases were detected in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday, taking the state’s count to 2,211 cases.“77 more people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh today, taking the total number of cases to 2,211,” said Uttar Pradesh Health Department.Out of the total cases, 551 patients have been cured while 40 others lost their lives due to the infection.Earlier today, a woman who tested positive for Covid-19 safely delivered a bay in Agra, the District Magistrate said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/77-more-covid-19-cases-in-up-total-cases-in-state-mount-to-2-211/story-EXDaU9jYof1LGEcmHVbqWK.html
30-04-2020||City||Vaishali and Indirapuram emerge as hot spots in Ghaziabad; residents, officials concerned||Vaishali and Indirapuram have emerged as two biggest Covid-19 hot spots in the city, with a majority of cases in these areas contracted in hospitals or health care centres, despite the district administration taking steps to restrict movement between Ghaziabad and Delhi. This has led to demands from residents that the administration take urgent steps to minimise the spread of the contagious disease to and from patients and health care workers, in Ghaziabad as well as the national capital.According to officials of the health department, Vaishali has so far recorded eight Covid-19 cases, which are ‘medically-acquired infections’, that were transmitted to non-Covid patients or health care staff at health centres or hospitals. Apart from hospitals in Ghaziabad, several of these patients visit hospitals in Meerut or Delhi for treatment.According to officials, Vaishali has six epicentres and only one of them, Sector 6, has been categorised a ‘green zone’, after no further positive case was reported in the area over the past 28 days. Two cases surfaced in the area on Wednesday, and the patients were admitted to ESI Hospital and Meerut Medical College for treatment.According to official statistics of the health department, the epicentre areas in Vaishali are parts of Sector 6 (now categorised as green zone), one area in Sector 1, three areas in Sector 5 and one area in Neelpadam Kunj.Indirapuram has six epicentres as well and two of them — Shipra Sun City and Gyan Khand 1 — have been moved to the orange zone, after no cases emerged in the past 14 days. The others are still categorised as red zones and are in parts of Niho Scottish Garden, ATS Advantage, Exotica Elegance and Express Garden.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey told HT that he has sought a report from the health department nodal officer sent to Ghaziabad by the Uttar Pradesh government.“I have sought his response over the issue of medically acquired infections. RWAs and residents should also send us a list of health care persons who reside their high-rises,” Pandey said.“A majority of the cases in Vaishali are due to medically acquired infections and the district administration should intervene so that such contamination is curbed. Recently, we issued an advisory in our high-rise asking health care workers to use of separate lifts, as they come from work from hospitals and other facilities. But there was a lot of opposition to this,” said Arun Singh, general secretary of Express Green in Vaishali Sector 1.“We are taking up sanitisation on our own and have hired plumbers and technicians so that no person has to come into the society from outside. Lifts are also used alternatively and even timing for services like door-to-door garbage collection and supply of vegetables, etc, have been fixed. No outsiders are allowed in and vehicles that travel out are properly sanitised when they come back in,” he added.The administration had previously sealed the city’s borders with Delhi and restricted the movement of commuters, in the wake of an increasing number of medically acquired infections after residents travelled to Delhi.However, officials have expressed concern over the uptick in cases despite the curbs.“Vaishali and Indirapuram are major causes of concern, besides the increasing number of cases coming from nearby Khoda, which is a densely populated area. A majority of the cases that have surfaced are due to medically acquired infections, as several residents visit local hospitals, as well as health care facilities in east Delhi on a regular basis. Conversely, several health care workers also live in Ghaziabad,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO).“We are working on a plan to deal with such hot spots, and will speak to the district administration about measures that can be taken to check the number of medically acquired infections. Since there are new cases emerging in these areas regularly, Vaishali and Indirapuram will take time to move out of the hot spot,” he added.Officials said government doctors and staff in Ghaziabad, dealing with Covid-19 cases, will remain in active quarantine for 14 days and move to hotels/hostels, and other lodgings, after finishing their daily duties. Once the first team completes 14 days at work, they will move to passive quarantine. At this point, a second team will take over to attend patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-cases-from-health-care-centres-rise-residents-of-2-ghaziabad-hot-spots-ask-admin-to-restrict-movement-from-delhi/story-8pXerMxhVJpxdvdCebhASM.html
30-04-2020||Delhi||Police ask Tablighi Jamaat head Maulana Saad to submit copy of Covid test report||The crime branch of Delhi Police — which is probing allegations of negligence by Tablighi Jamaat members that led Nizamuddin area to turn into a Covid-19 hotspot — has sent a notice to the religious sect’s head, Maulana Saad Kandhalvi, seeking a copy of his medical records where he tested negative for Covid-19. The area around Nizamuddin Basti in south east Delhi continues to remain a Covid-19 containment zone.Maulana Saad has not joined the probe after an FIR was registered against him by the Delhi police for organising a religious gathering in March this year despite restrictions to combat the coronavirus spread.Senior Delhi Police officers, authorised to speak to the media, did not comment on the investigation. But crime branch officers, on condition of anonymity, said that Saad has been asked to submit a copy of medical tests from two different hospitals, showing he had tested negative for Covid-19. In the same notice, police have also asked Saad to get the test done from a government approved facility. Maulana Saad, head of Tablighi Jamaat religious sect, had gone into self quarantine after a massive evacuation drive of his followers from inside the sect’s headquarters in Nizamuddin Basti by health department and police between March 29 and March 31 . While hundreds of Tablighi Jamaat members, who showed symptoms of Covid-19, were removed and taken to different quarantine centres in Delhi, the Maulana had left the building before the evacuation. His lawyers had then said that the Maulana was in home quarantine.An investigating officer, who did not wish to be named, said, police are building a case against Saad, and he might be arrested soon. “We have already seized the documents related to the congregation at the Markaz, which led to the spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases. We have also taken the statements of the crucial important documents linked to the case, “ the officer said. HT has learnt from many mid-level police officers that Saad is in Delhi and police teams are keeping a watch on him. “The investigating officers are gradually closing in on him. There is strong evidence against him on how he flouted regulations and did not ensure social distancing norms inside the Markaz,” the official said. The official added that the investigating officer in the case is yet to get a nod from their superiors to summon Saad and question him. “Maybe our seniors are waiting for members of Tablighi Jammat to be discharged from quarantine centres. Many of them are lodged in different parts of the city are still creating problems for doctors at the centres. Arresting Saad may prove to be more trouble for government officers at these centres. A lookout notice has already been issued against him, so that he cannot escape the country. We are still waiting for a nod from our bosses before moving in on him, “ an officer had told HT last week. Police have filed a criminal case against Saad and six other top jamaat members on March 31 for defying a series of government directives, which curbed religious and large gatherings, issued to contain the spread of the virus in Delhi.Saad’s lawyer could not be contacted for a comment.On March, police and health department officials evacuated more than 2,300 persons from inside the Markaz building, headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat, where they had gathered for a religious congregation . The meetings continued despite orders by the Delhi government banning all religious events (March 13), restricting gatherings to 200 people (March 16), and then putting a four-person limit ( March 21) on all gatherings. Nizamuddin was also declared a containment zone after the evacuation. At least 21 evacuated persons had then tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/police-ask-tablighi-jamaat-head-maulana-saad-to-submit-copy-of-covid-test-report/story-YRvKjlQqarIGaWXeQzlofK.html
30-04-2020||Noida||Provide ration or send us home, migrants stranded in Noida plead with govt||With the community kitchen meals proving to be insufficient to feed the many people from different states stranded in the city due to the lockdown, there is palpable tension of the ground with them demanding that either the government find a way to send them back home or provide ration for sustenance.The union home ministry had recently allowed states to return migrant workers to their homes. In Shahdara village in Noida’s sector 141, the residents come from different states -- Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttarakhand, Maharashtra and West Bengal, among others -- but they have the same trouble: no money and often go to sleep hungry.“All our savings are over and we don’t know what to do. We have children to feed and the food being served at the village through community kitchen is not enough. We have no work and thus no earnings since the past two months, and soon we won’t be able to afford both ration for the family and milk for children. We request that either government send us ration or make some arrangements to send back home,” said Jyoti Sahu, who hails from Damoh district in Madhya Pradesh and works as domestic help in the neighbouring highrises in Sector 137. She lives with her in-laws – a large family of 25 people comprising 12 children. They had all come to Noida in search of work, now they wished to return.The Sahu family, along with their neighbours and other migrants stranded in Shahdara village also claimed that despite holding a Jan Dhan Account, they did not receive government funds either. In April, the Union government had promised to transfer ₹1,500 to these accounts held by women.“The family I worked for helped me a lot, they even provided ration but how long can they feed us? We would need help from the government. We also did not receive money in our account, while some back in our village in Madhya Pradesh did,” says Maya Rani Sahu and Anita Sahu, who also work as domestic help at the neighbouring highrises.Their landlord understood their predicament and did not ask for rent. “Some 20 days back during the first lockdown, out of hundreds living here only 10 families received ration packets that had two kilo rice and atta and one kilo channa dal. There was no oil, vegetables, salt or spices. Many families who are my tenants approached me for help, so I dialled the helpline number at 0120-2425025, seeking ration but no help followed,” said Ashok Sharma, the landlord who has rented rooms to more than ten such migrant families in the village.Laxmi Devi, a domestic help who migrated from Siwan district, Bihar was another marred by the lockdown.“Before Holi, my husband went to Bhopal for work and got stuck there. I work as a domestic help here and have a seven-month-old baby girl. I don’t have enough money to sustain longer and baby food is expensive. If only we can go back home, most of our problems would be solved,” says Laxmi.Suman Bhartiyal, migrant from Champawat district in Uttarakhand was another sufferer with a toddler to feed and limited ration to sustain.“My baby is not even a year old, so I cannot walk back home. If only we get chance or government arranges a bus, we all want to go home,”” says BhartiyalShanti Haldar, another migrant who hails from Malda in West Bengal and worked here at a construction site had similar story of no support from government and a sustenance that runs on credit.According to the officials however, the ration distribution will begin soon. Officials said that while the administration has already given orders to initiate the distribution of ration on priority basis to the ration card holders, a separate database is being worked upon to recognise the needy families without a ration card.“We have over 1,85,000 families with ration card in the district of which 7,897 are Antyodaya card holder and remaining are PHH (person house hold ) card holder. The distribution is set to begin in two phase from May 1 to 12 and May 15 to 26. But these benefits are for the card holders from within the state. For the migrants, who don’t have ration card or are the families in need, separate arrangements are being made. A database is being developed to recognise those in need and they will get a package that contains nine items including rice, pulses, atta, spices, salt, oil and vegetables,” said RN Yadav, district supply officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/provide-ration-or-send-us-home-migrants-stranded-in-noida-plead-with-govt/story-USNzHjZmxQg9ZbZxQ9QhdI.html
30-04-2020||City||Six new Covid cases in Kalyan||Six new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Kalyan-Dombivli on Thursday, taking the toll to 162. Besides the 20-day-old boy and his mother who tested positive, the others are a 40-year-old employee of a civic hospital in Mumbai, a 42-year-old woman staffer of a private hospital in Mumbai and two men who work at APMC market in Vashi.After the death of an 87-year-old woman from Ulhasnagar, the Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) commissioner Sudhakar Deshmukh announced that fruit and vegetable vendors will be allowed to do business only till 2pm.However, only those vendors who have been given permission by the ward officer and allotted a spot will be allowed to do business. “Residents at three containment zones at Ulhasnagar-5 should strictly follow rules,” said Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-new-covid-cases-in-kalyan/story-CcDa8QPKjKmXISqTzUSJiK.html
30-04-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: Jagraon sanitation workers get immunity booster in Ludhiana||In view of the coronavirus pandemic, Punjab State Safai Karamchari Commission chairman Geja Ram Valmiki on Thursday distributed naturally prepared herbal immunity booster among the sanitation workers deployed at nagar council, Jagraon. The move aimed to ensure that the workers stay safe and healthy in their fight against the coronavirus. DEVELOPED BY CITY-BASED DOCTOROn the occasion, Valmiki thanked city-based doctor Mandeep Singh Sran who has prepared the immunity booster. “This product can prove very beneficial for the safai karamcharis in boosting their immunity,” said Valmiki, adding that if they stay safe and healthy, then only cleanliness of the entire city could be maintained. He also said that Punjab government was putting in “sincere efforts” in the fight against Covid-19. “Even the Safai Karamchari Commission has started a state-wide cleanliness drive,” the sanitation body’s chief said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-jagraon-sanitation-workers-get-immunity-booster-in-ludhiana/story-ApsRvOxse3W2VP3Rbbt3iK.html
30-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police officer at Amar Colony station tests positive for Covid||A Delhi Police sub-inspector from the Amar Colony police station who was posted at Okhla Mandi has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). He has been sent to a quarantine facility on Thursday. Three constables, who were also deployed there, had tested positive for the virus in the last four or five days, taking the total number of infected personnel from the police station to four, so far.With the four cases, the total number of Delhi Police personnel infected with the virus rose to 36. Five of them have already recovered and got discharged from the quarantine facilities they were admitted to. The five included three constables from the Chandni Mahal police station, one assistant sub-inspector (ASI) from the traffic police unit and his batch mate, who was deployed at the AIIMS Trauma Centre police post.On Thursday, the ASI from the police post was welcome with flowers by his colleagues at the Safdarjung Enclave police station, where he is posted with.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-officer-at-amar-colony-station-tests-positive-for-covid/story-wgJd3KyDpI6N773NUXOU6O.html
30-04-2020||City||Thane records 2 deaths; corporator among 31 new cases||Thane recorded two deaths on Thursday, the day when the city saw highest single-day spike of Covid cases. With 31 new cases, the city’s tally has crossed 300. The death toll so far is 11.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, Thane Municipal Corporation, said, “A 57-year-old resident of Kausa, who had tuberculosis and hypertension, died in Thane civil hospital. He had a bakery shop in Kurla.”The second case is 65-year-old man, who died on April 28 but his report came on Wednesday, and he tested positive. He had several comorbidites.Thane’s total number of cases is 310.Among those who tested positive on Thursday is a corporator, wife of a member of Legislative Council (MLC).An official from Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) said, “The corporator is the wife of an MLC from Thane. She contracted the virus from her house help, who had tested positive. The family members of the domestic help have been quarantined. The MLC has also been quarantined.”The highest number of cases on Thursday was reported from Wagale Estate slums, which saw 10 positive cases.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, said, “Six positive cases are from Vijaylaxmi chawl in Kajuvadi slums of Lokmanya Nagar area. New cases were also reported from slum areas of Janakinagar in Kalwa, CP Talao, Padwalnagar, Hanuman Nagar and Mumbra on Thursday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-records-2-deaths-corporator-among-31-new-cases/story-iuASP5YGzg37n3lZahZIqM.html
30-04-2020||Bangalore||Covid-19 lockdown: K’taka govt allows one-time movement of stranded people||The Karnataka government on Thursday decided to allow migrant workers, tourists, students and others stranded in different parts of the state due to the ongoing lockdown to return to their native places, a day after the Centre issued guidelines for the process.This will be a one-time movement and the government would arrange buses for those in need but they should bear the expenses, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J C Madhuswamy said. He also said people willing to return to the state would have to undergo tests for Covid-19.Following the cabinet decision, Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar has issued order appointing senior IAS and IPS officers as the nodal officers to facilitate smooth movement of people across state borders as per SOPs.Senior IAS officer Rajkumar Khatri along with IPS officer Arun Jeji Chakravarthy have been made overall in-charge of movement of stranded people from outside States and UTs to Karnataka. Whereas Manjunatha Prasad (IAS) along with P S Sandhu (IPS) have been made in-charge of movement of stranded people from Karnataka to other States/UTs.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi had taken a decision on the movement of people and the Centre had issued a circular in this regard.Following this, we have decided to permit interstate and inter-district movement,” Madhuswamy told reporters here. Travel expenses should be borne by those willing to return and if they want, the government can provide buses from the state transport corporations.The Union Ministry of Home Affairs on Wednesday issued orders allowing migrant workers, tourists, students and other people stranded in different parts of the country to move to their respective destinations with certain conditions, giving a big relief to the distressed people.However, a decision on opening of salons and liquor shops in the state will be taken after May 3.The minister said permission would be given for one-time movement of labourers and others who want to go from one district to other for work or any other purpose. Those operating industry or establishment and want to move from place to place for management purpose will be given passes with strict scrutiny and through checks.Responding to a query, Madhuswamy said, “we don’t know yet how many are willing to go, where they will go, if some one asks for permission, we will permit.” “One family or two or three people want to go, they can use taxi. If too many people want to go, we will provide facility through transport corporation buses,” he added. In his order, the Chief Secretary has also appointed state specific nodal officers (IAS and IPS both) for New Delhi and northern states, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal and North East states, Jharkhand, Odisha, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, Tamil Nadu, and Kerala.The officers will coordinate with their counterparts from other states and will guide the district administration for movement of persons, the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/covid-19-lockdown-k-taka-govt-allows-one-time-movement-of-stranded-people/story-QJbl979OgV5HEtLfBuflmO.html
30-04-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra hits grim milestone of 10,000-plus Covid-19 cases; 27 die||Maharashtra reached the grim milestone of 10,000-plus coronavirus cases on Thursday with the detection of 583 new infections, while 27 more patients succumbed to the disease - 20 of them in Mumbai - taking the toll to 459, said a state health department official.He said with the addition of 583 new cases, Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally stood at 10,498, a grim milestone which was achieved 53 days after the state recorded its first infection.The worst-affected Mumbai city alone reported a jump of 417 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 6,061, he said.As many as 290 coronavirus patients have died in the city so far, he added.Also, 27 more patients succumbed to the disease, taking the toll in the state to 459 on Thursday, said the official.Out of the 27 deaths, 20 were from Mumbai city, three from Pune, two from Thane, one each from Nagpur and Raigad, he said.The Thane division, which according to the health department, also comprises Mumbai city, has recorded a total of 8,244 cases and 313 deaths so far, he said.The Pune division has reported 1,379 cases ofCovid-19 and 96 deaths so far. Of these, Pune city alone accounts for 1,113 cases and 82 fatalities.The Kolhapur division, that covers Western Maharashtra and the Konkan region, has 53 cases and two deaths till date, followed by the Nashik division - 315 cases and 27 deaths - the health official said.The Aurangabad division in central Maharashtra has recorded 150 cases ofCovid-19 along with seven deaths, while in the Latur division, 19 people have tested positive for coronavirus and one patient has died so far.There are 169 cases in the Akola division and nine deaths, while in the Nagpur division, 143 people have been found infected with the disease, while two patient has succumbed till date.The number ofCovid-19 patients from other states who are receiving treatment here stood at 26, while two such persons have succumbed to the coronavirus infection, the official said. The state has so far carried out 1,45,798 tests forCovid-19 of which 1,34,244 were negative and 10,498 positive, he said.There are 733 active coronavirus containment zones in the state, the official said.As many as 10,092 health squads have so far completed surveillance of 42.11 lakh population in the state, he said.The number of people who have been discharged following recovery from the deadly infection stood at 1,773 in the state, the official said.There are 1,68,266 people currently in home quarantine and 10,695 in institutional quarantine, he said.Maharashtra’sCovid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 10,498, new cases 583, deaths 459, discharged 1,773, active cases 8266, people tested so far 1,45,798.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-hits-grim-milestone-of-10-000-plus-covid-19-cases-27-die/story-6uiarExUHXJCfFtxTEYnVM.html
30-04-2020||Delhi||Five of Lok Sabha staffer’s family of 12 test positive, family says delayed test reports led to spread||Five of a family of 12, living in a two-bedroom government quarters near Central Delhi’s Gole Market, have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) since April 20, with the family blaming delayed reports for the disease spreading to so many members of the family within a span of nine days.The head of the family, a 58-year-old Lok Sabha housekeeping staff member, was the first to test positive on April 20. He lives with his wife, daughter, three sons, two daughters-in-law and four grandchildren in a two-bedroom house with a covered balcony functioning as an additional room.“My father had complained of chest pain on April 11, after which I took him to Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) hospital. Three days later, he had fever and I took him for a Covid test to RML again. On April 20, he test results came positive for Covid-19. The ambulance did not come for hours to take him to the hospital. Since beds were full at RML, we had to call up several people to get him admitted to Safdarjung,” the man’s son told HT over the phone. On April 21, the whole family got their Covid tests done at the RML. Reports came on April 23 and the staffer’s daughter tested positive. She was shifted to the YMCA/YWCA quarantine facility of the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) the same day. All others tested negative at the time. However, one of the daughters-in-law’s report did not come. The staffer’s son said, “After my sister tested positive, I had requested the medical staff at RML to help shift us to an isolation facility, as we have young children at home. But they told us that since none of us had symptoms, we should stay in home quarantine,” he said. He added that days later when he checked with the authorities about his sister-in-law’s report, he was told that it may have been misplaced and they will get her sample collected and tested again, which didn’t happen, he alleged. “Our house is small and all members of the family have to use the same bathroom,” he said. ” When my mother and brother got fever and sore throat, all three of us again got our Covid tests done on April 25. Mine as well as my mother’s report came on April 29 (Wednesday) evening. We again waited for almost two hours for the ambulance to arrive. My brother’s report had not come even then. He had to isolate himself in the balcony to keep away from children,” the staffer’s son said.The son and the staffer’s wife’s were shifted late Wednesday to the YMCA/YWCA quarantine facility. The other son’s report came a day later, on Thursday evening. The others in the neighbourhood Thursday said that they will write to the local authorities to shift the family to a quarantine facility, as social distancing was not possible in the small house and more members might end up getting infected. Rebat Ram Dobhal, president of the local RWA said the family had a hard time even getting to the hospital. “I had to call up the local authorities to help send ambulances. We plan to write to them to move the family to a safer quarantine facility, as they may infect each other. Also, it poses a risk to others in the building,”Dobhal said. Four civil defence volunteers have been deployed to supply essentials to the sealed building that houses 15 flats. All the staffer’s son wants now is that the rest of his family’s samples are collected from home and they do not have to go out again to a hospital. “Initially when I took my father for his heart check-up on April 11, the hospital staff was not taking adequate measures to keep the non-Covid patients separated from Covid patients. My father was made to sit on the same bench where a Covid patient had sat minutes ago. He contracted the infection from there. Now I just pray that our children remain safe,” he said. New Delhi district health officials said in designated hospitals, it usually takes two days for the reports to arrive. “There could be a slight delay on account of medical facilities being burdened with tests from containment zones. We have already asked them to speed up test results,” a senior government official, who did not wish to be named, said. A senior official from the RML hospital, on condition of anonymity, said, “There is no delay in reports. It varies from case to case. In some cases, it may take three or four days for the report to come, while in others, the test has to be repeated, and the reports may take longer. The sample load at testing labs is also high.”A senior Delhi government official, looking after the Gole Market area, who did not wish to be named, said only the block where the Lok Sabha staffer was living, has been sealed so far because all cases are from the same family. “There are about seven or eight other cases in Gole Market area,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/five-of-lok-sabha-staffer-s-family-of-12-test-positive-family-says-delayed-test-reports-led-to-spread/story-MfDbZpiDy7iDmWkSEbluiI.html
30-04-2020||City||Cops stop 57 labourers from cycling to their hometown||The Navi Mumbai police on Wednesday detained and booked 57 migrant labourers, who were cycling to their hometown in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The police have booked the cycle shop owners from whom they had purchased the bicycles.The labourers, in the age group of 20 and 40 years, told the Turbhe police that as there was no other option, they were willing to cover over 1300km to reach their homes.They have been booked for violating the lockdown order. The police asked them to return wherever they are staying.“We counselled them and gave them dry ration for 10 days. We have asked them to approach the police directly when they run out of groceries,” said Sachin Rane, senior inspector at Turbhe police station.After learning that the men bought new bicycles for the long journey, the police tracked down the shop owners who sold them the bicycles.“We have booked three cycle shop owners under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code for selling the bicycles to the workers. The bicycles have been seized,” added Rane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cops-stop-57-labourers-from-cycling-to-their-hometown/story-kDyiBB6Z4HlekfPloWZq8O.html
30-04-2020||City||Amid lockdown, para-legal volunteers distribute ration to underprivileged in Ludhiana||Amid lockdown in the wake of coronavirus outbreak, many para-legal volunteers associated with the Ludhiana District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) are distributing ration to the underprivileged.Giving details, Ludhiana DLSA secretary Preeti Sukhija said the para-legal volunteers along with district administration officials and members of NGOs are providing ration to the needy. “The para-legal volunteers are also providing ration to the underprivileged in several areas of sub-divisions Jagraon, Khanna, Samrala and Payal,” she said.“Anyone facing domestic violence during the lockdown can seek help by calling on the toll-free number 1968. For free legal aid, district residents can contact the DLSA on 0161-2400051 or the Punjab State Legal Services Authority, Mohali, on the toll-free number 1968,” Sukhija added.The DLSA secretary said for any assistance related to ration, the residents can call on toll-free numbers–112 or 1905–of the Punjab government. She said residents can also call on landline numbers–01612405200, 01612405400 or 01612405700–of the district administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-lockdown-para-legal-volunteers-distribute-ration-to-underprivileged-in-ludhiana/story-uMXK1kbhJ8od1qZDigt3nO.html
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University extends felicitations to employees retiring during lockdown||Panjab University has extended felicitations to the employees who attained the age of superannuation amid the Covid-19 lockdown.Ten non-teaching staffers of the university retired on Thursday. Panjab University registrar Karamjeet Singh said, “The university extends felicitations to all employees who superannuated. Due to the Covid-19 outbreak, we are unable to bid farewell to the colleagues, but we convey best wishes for their new phase of life.” Deepak Kaushik, president of non-teaching employees, while congratulating the 10 non-teaching employees on their retirement, gave his warmest wishes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-extends-felicitations-to-employees-retiring-during-lockdown/story-CEa2qThinjTVJKsLQVmGdJ.html
30-04-2020||City||Man held for assaulting medical staff in Palghar hospital||The Wada police on Wednesday arrested a man for assaulting and abusing the medical staff of a government hospital. Police have also charged the mother of the accused in the same case, though she has not been arrested yet.Mohan Badade, 28, a resident of Alman village in Wada was admitted to the government hospital at Wada and he went into a comatose condition. The doctors told the accused Ganesh,30, his brother, to register for a case paper and in the melee, the accused started to assault and abuse the medical staff including medical superintendent Dr Atul Shiral. The mother of the accused, Yashoda, 60, also intervened and joined the fracas.A complaint was registered against Ganesh and his mother Yashoda under Sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 332, 323 (assault) of the IPC and also under the Maharashtra Medicare Service Persons and Medicare Service Institutions (Prevention of Violence and Damage or Loss to Property) Act, 2010, said a Wada police officer.Ganesh is remanded in police custody by the Wada court while Yashoda is yet to be arrested. Meanwhile, the entire medical staff of the hospital, including doctors and nurses wore black badges on their arms, to protest the assault.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-held-for-assaulting-medical-staff-in-palghar-hospital/story-0NQrZTLsbBhkNf6y9K3KBJ.html
30-04-2020||City||Karnala bird count during Buddha Purnima hits lockdown hurdle||Every year, forest officials along with activists carry out a wildlife census on Buddha Purnima.The census is conducted annually on Buddha Purnima, a full moon night when it is easier to spot animals. This year, Buddha Purnima is on May 7 and forest officials from Karnala bird sanctuary are staring at uncertainty to conduct the census.Pradeep Chavan, forest official, Karnala bird sanctuary, said, “Till now there is no official word about lockdown being extended, so it is difficult for nature enthusiasts and NGOs to be a part of the census. The current situation has made it difficult for us to plan the census.”He added that even if the census is planned, it will be conducted by a few officials.The forest official said, “A lot of preparation is to be done. We need to make waterholes and safe points to monitor birds. As officials are busy in special duty, we cannot go ahead with preparations for the census. The experts and NGOs cannot be part of the census.”The Karnala bird sanctuary, off Mumbai-Pune Expressway, has 145 species of native birds. Spread over an expanse of 12.11 sq km, it is popular for bird watching and trekking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/karnala-bird-count-during-buddha-purnima-hits-lockdown-hurdle/story-cDaJXjcTskxzq7p8VvEGcN.html
30-04-2020||City||Ensure sanitisation of ambulances, Punjab health department tells civil surgeons||Day after the health authorities of Tarn Taran district courted a controversy for allegedly sending a rickety ambulance to ferry a coronavirus suspect, director health and family welfare, Punjab, has asked all the civil surgeons to ensure cleanliness and sanitisation of all the medically equipped vehicles.The letter issued to the civil hospitals, which further sent it to the sub-divisional hospitals, community and primary health centres across the district, read, “The ambulances used for ferrying Covid-19 patients should be disinfected as per the government guidelines.” “Items such as oxygen cylinder and medicine kit should be regularly checked to ensure they are not expired,” it said. Following the government order, Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga has directed all the respective departments to check the ambulances plying under 108 emergency service on weekly basis and submit a report of the same to the state health department headquarters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ensure-sanitisation-of-ambulances-punjab-health-department-tells-civil-surgeons/story-kD6WnqLZupQdSYqpJO7qwM.html
30-04-2020||City||Pune Police issue additional restrictions from May 1 to 3 in areas under 10 police stations||PUNE The Pune police have on Thursday announced additional restrictions in areas under ten police stations between May 1 and 3 in light of the density of population and increasing Covid-19 (coronavirus) cases caused due to Sars-cov-2 virus.Milk shops will operate from 6 am to 10 am in these areas. Besides milk shops home delivery of milk will also be allowed. Medical shops, hospitals and movement of patients in need of urgent medical attention will also be allowed, according to the order.The ten police station include complete jurisdiction under Samarth police station, Khadak police station, Faraskhana police station, while specific areas under Swargate police station, Lashkar police station, Bundgarden police station, Sahakarnagar police station, Dattawadi police station, Yerawada police station and Khadki police station.The order was issued by Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner of Pune police, on Thursday afternoon. According to the order sale of vegetable, fruits, grocery along with meat and eggs has been prohibited from May 1 till May 3 while milk distribution can continue only during morning hours.The order is effective in the jurisdiction of 10 police stations mostly from central, eastern and north Pune, which has seen a maximum number of Covid-19 cases, said police.According to the statement issued by Shisve, “The entire area of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has been declared as a containment zone. Within the area in PMC, the spread of coronavirus was found to have happened on a larger scale. In these areas, in addition to multiple prohibition orders issued earlier, additional restrictions under Section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure will be in place between 6 am, May 1 till midnight, May 3.””All other shops including grocery, vegetable and fruit, meat, and eggs have been ordered shut. However, the food distribution system established with the help of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will remain operative in the area,” says the order.These orders are in addition to the assembly prohibition and vehicle movement prohibition orders already in place all over the country.A total of 24 spots have been identified including complete jurisdictions of three police stations and particular spots in the jurisdiction of seven police stations.The move has come in light of an increasing number of Covid-19 cases in these areas. For example, Patil Estate has reported over 131 cases, while Tadiwala road slum has reported over 100 cases.In most of these areas, the police have identified micro-clusters which were marked if a particular by-lane/colony/area had over five positive cases.Police order is effective in areas mentioned belowZONE 1Samarth police station: complete jurisdictionKhadak police station:complete jurisdictionFaraskhana police station: complete jurisdictionZONE 2Swargate police station-Gultekdi-Maharshinagar-Dais plot-Indiranagar-Khadda slumLashkar police station-New Modikhana-Poona College road-Qureshi Masjid area,-Bhimpura lane,-Quarter Gate,-Shivaji Market,-Shitaladevi road,Bundgarden police station-Tadiwala road (private road)Sahakarnagar police station-Taljai-BalajinagarZONE 3Dattawadi police stationParvati Darshan areaYerawada police station-Lakshminagar-Gadital-Chitra chowk areaKhadki police station-Patil Estate-Irani chawl/Patkar plot||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-police-issue-additional-restrictions-from-may-1-to-3-in-areas-under-10-police-stations/story-amiQVHZDqvVgWHFD55xmGI.html
30-04-2020||City||HC issues notice over non-availability of PPE kits to ambulance employees||The high court of Himachal Pradesh has issued notice to the chief secretary, principle secretary (health) and managing director of GVK-EMRI, over non-availability of personal protection (PPE) kits to the employees deployed in the 108 and 102 ambulances.A division bench of chief justice L Narayana Swamy and justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua passed the orders on a petition taken up suo moto by the court as a PIL addressed to the chief justice through e-mail by Puran Chand, chairman of Himachal Pradesh 108/102 Contract Worker Union.The applicant had alleged that the employees deployed in ambulances are providing their services round-the-clock, but the GVK-EMRI management has not provided PPE kits till date.He further alleged that in some ambulances, the company has provided only two kits and once used these cannot be reused without sanitisation. All employees have been directed to use available kits only. The petitioner said that 108/102 ambulance employees are exposed to risk.The case will now be heard on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-issues-notice-over-non-availability-of-ppe-kits-to-ambulance-employees/story-E4krr58ALyvrGpUodA2TBI.html
30-04-2020||City||Now, people stranded in Punjab can return home after screening||People from other states, who are stranded in Punjab and are desirous of returning home, can apply on www.covidhelp.punjab.gov.in by May 3.On filling details on the link, a system generated unique ID will be given for the whole family. Deputy commissioner (DC) Girish Dayalan said access to the back-end of the link will be provided by state control room and by May 3, the DCs will be in a position to access the database to see details of their districts.Health check-up camps will be held to screen the stranded people. The screening will be completed by May 4. Those found asymptomatic, will be issued a certificate by the health team. He also added that stranded people can begin their journeys on May 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-people-stranded-in-punjab-can-return-home-after-screening/story-Ad5tLStGho33d6uiN0w4xK.html
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||Covid lockdown: PU constitutes panel to recommend date for conclusion of academic session||Panjab University (PU) has constituted a panel to recommend the date of conclusion for the current academic session for its teaching departments, regional centres, constituent and affiliated colleges.The 11-member panel, constituted by vice-chancellor Raj Kumar, will be chaired by dean university instructions (DUI). The panel includes registrar Karamjeet Singh, dean college development council (DCDC) Sanjay Kaushik and senator Navdeep Goyal. PU’s DUI Shankarji Jha said, “University Grants Commission has given leverage to universities to decide their action plans. The panel will hold a meeting after the lockdown is lifted.”“There are similarities between UGC’s guidelines and Punjab’s Covid exit strategy. UGC has recommended June 15 as the date for the session to conclude, which seems good under the present circumstances. So now, we will consider what can be done,” Goyal said.Despite the guidelines, UGC has given space to universities to chalk out their own plan of action plan. The academic calendar of the UGC suggests completion of syllabus and other project work before June 15.Panjab University is also planning to follow UGC guidelines on conducting the examinations. PU controller of examinations, Parvinder Singh said, “After reassessing the situation, we will start examinations for terminal classes in July, as per the dates given by UGC, if the lockdown is lifted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-lockdown-pu-constitutes-panel-to-recommend-date-for-conclusion-of-academic-session/story-IpiZzzWtEZTsXppF9N5B5I.html
30-04-2020||City||Two more Covid-19 patients recover in HP, total 27 cured so far||Two more Covid-19 patients recovered in Himachal Pradesh on Thursday taking the total number of those cured in the state to 27.“Two more Covid-19 patients from Chamba and Kangra districts were cured after testing negative twice for coronavirus,” additional chief secretary (health) R D Dhiman said.Dhiman said both the patients, who were undergoing treatment at Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College, Tanda, are being discharged from the hospital.They will be kept under observation in an institutional quarantine facility for two weeks and will be discharged if they test negative after the observation period is over.Both the patients work in a Hindi newspaper in Jalandhar and sneaked into Himachal Pradesh on April 10 in a vehicle supplying essential commodities. They were tested positive for Covid-19 on April 15.With this, 27 patients have recovered in the state — 12 from Una district, five from Solan, five from Chamba, four from Kangra and one from Sirmaur district.To date, 40 Covid-19 cases including one fatality have been reported in the state.Kangra is Covid-freeKangra, the most populous district of Himachal Pradesh has become corona-free with the recovery of one active case.Two cases were reported on March 20 and the third case, a 69-year-old Tibetan man who died of acute respiratory distress, was tested positive on March 23 after his death.The fourth case, a Tablighi Jamaat worker, was reported on April 5 and fifth on April 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-more-covid-19-patients-recover-in-hp-total-27-cured-so-far/story-qvUGFjZbPVxadvOeSGaWyN.html
30-04-2020||City||In Mohali, Covid positive Nanded pilgrims at a loss over no symptoms||A 2,200-km bus ride filled with hope and optimism ended in despair for many pilgrims from Takht Hazur Sahib, Nanded, Maharashtra, two days after they reached Mohali. We had full faith in almighty and never thought we would catch the infection, they said, after 15 of them tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19), bringing to the fore the risks and dangers of transporting people in such situations.In the past two days, 57 pilgrims have arrived in Mohali, out of which 60% are women. Most of these are from villages, including Premgarh near Aerocity, Manakmajra, Amrala, Badana, Raipur Khurd and Sainimajra. All 15 who tested positive have been admitted to the Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur for 14 days. The district case tally now stands at 84.Speaking to HT, a 58-year-old man from Premgarh, who tested positive, said, “Seventeen members of our family, including those from other villages, had also accompanied us on the religious tour, and 13 of them have tested positive. We had no symptoms as all of us were hale and hearty. I have yet to believe that I am a Covid patient and could have passed on the infection to others in the bus.”Another among the patients, a 55-year-old woman from Amrala village in Dera Bassi, said, “We left for Hazur Sahib on March 18 and were happy to visit the holy shrine. Stranded in Maharashtra due to the nationwide lockdown, we had no problem at all, but coming all the way to Mohali and being told that we have been infected has shattered us. I was excited to meet my family members, but now again I have to stay away from them for 14 days.”A 54-year-old patient from Premgarh said, “Not even a single person in the bus had any health problem, not even a mild headache. We travelled for more than 2,200km, all fine, but fail to understand how reports have come out positive. There must be something wrong with the reports.”Meanwhile, Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said, “Most of the patients tested positive are asymptomatic and all are responding well to the treatment. We have to quarantine them to stop further spread of the disease.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-crept-up-on-healthy-nanded-returnees-in-mohali/story-2luf5v7OodzqgVDYm0BPuM.html
30-04-2020||City||9,000 labourers brought back to J&K in 5 days, 3,000 waiting at entry point||With restrictions eased by the Union home ministry, the Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) administration has in the past five days brought back 9,000 of its labourers stranded across the country after the March 25 lockdown.State transport buses are being used to transport them.“Officially it has almost been a week now since the process was started to bring back students followed by labourers stranded in other parts of the country. For the past four days they have started coming back from Punjab and Himachal Pradesh,” said Kathua district senior superintendent of police (SSP) Shailendra Kumar Mishra.“Around 9,000 labourers have come back so far and the process is continuing. As we speak there are around 3,000 more at Lakhanpur undergoing various checks and screening as per guidelines,” added Mishra.Currently Himachal Pradesh and Punjab are the two states being prioritised.“Once these residents enter Lakhanpur (the entry point into J&K) they are sent to their native districts for administrative quarantine for 14 days. A database is being maintained,” the SSP said.Lakhanpur control room (01922-285329) attendant Taramani said a number of people were calling from across the states and within the UT to enquire about the process to enter J&K.“We are telling them that before reaching Lakhanpur they must have valid permission from the administration. Once they reach us we scrutinise their pass, screen them and send them to Kathua from where health officials either send them to home quarantine under an undertaking or to administrative quarantine depending on their status,” he said.J&K so far has recorded 581 confirmed cases of Covid 19, of which 192 have recovered and eight have died. As of date the UT has 381 positive cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/9-000-labourers-brought-back-to-j-k-in-5-days-3-000-waiting-at-entry-point/story-CRZ3jPLR0xvuNDeYwFbGYK.html
30-04-2020||City||Dal Lake’s first Covid-19 case proves to be a challenge for J&K administration||The detection of the first coronavirus positive case in Srinagar’s Dal Lake has thrown a challenge at the administration as it would be difficult to impose strict restrictions on the waters. What has compounded the problem is that the source of the infection is not known so far.Earlier this week, an 80-year-old woman of Batpora hamlet in the interiors of Dal Lake near Jogi Lankar tested positive for the disease and died at Chest Diseases Hospital in Srinagar on Tuesday. Twelve of her close contacts were immediately quarantined, of which one family member tested positive on Thursday.Though the officials immediately declared the hamlet and its road-connecting areas like Jogi Lankar and Lamb Mohalla as red zones, people have been moving freely in the Batpora area during the lockdown.Srinagar deputy commissioner Shahid Iqbal Chaudhary said that they have sealed areas such as Jogi Lankar and Rainawari keeping only one entry-exit functional. “We also sent a team to the lakeside and a police team is also patrolling to keep a vigil,” he said.Dal Lake is a microcosm of Srinagar city. Even in the strictest of curfews or a shutdown, Dal Lake remains unaffected as people mostly use boats for transport. Since the nationwide lockdown was enforced to contain Covid-19 pandemic, life for those staying in human settlements within and along the Dal Lake has been going on with farmers growing vegetables and selling them daily at the floating market.“There have been no restrictions but people have been maintaining social distancing,” said Bashir Ahmad Bhat, who daily rows 5km on his boat to the floating market to buy vegetables in bulk and then deliver in the city.Spread over an area of 24 km including the settlements and vast expanse of the lake, some 50,000 people live in small hamlets and houseboats on Dal Lake.DC said that imposing restrictions in Dal Lake is a challenge. “We have activated Anaganwari workers, BLOs and health workers to ensure that there is less movement,” he said.What has been more worrying is the unknown source of infection of two of the 88 cases in Srinagar including a vegetable seller of Nishat and the 80-year-old woman.“The woman was reported to be suffering from various ailments. She neither had any travel history nor had contact with any known positive patient. We are identifying the sources of infection,” Choudhary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dal-lake-s-first-covid-19-case-proves-to-be-a-challenge-for-j-k-administration/story-0kybYaf7z4sqAi0Beug6HM.html
30-04-2020||City||Helpline to facilitate doorstep delivery of medicines proves beneficial for HP residents||The essential medicine helpline started by the state government is proving to be a boon for the people across the state in this hard time due to the nationwide lockdown enforced to contain coronavirus.Thousands of patients living in remote areas of the state have been benefitted from this service. These patients are now being provided medicines at their doorsteps by procuring them from Chandigarh, Dehradun and other parts of the region.Mohan, a resident of village Kullah of Sirmour district said that he urgently required medicines for a kidney ailment, but was finding it hard to get the life-saving drugs due to the curfew imposed in the state, but he was able to get them by calling at the helpline number.A spokesperson of the state government said that medicines were delivered to a patient of Malang village of Lahaul valley via flight and to a resident of Pangi through road. This service has proven a boon for more than 948 patients with drug inspectors acting as a bridge between the patients and chemists to ensure delivery of medicines during the curfew.To date, as many as 1059 requests have been received on this helpline and more than 90% of requests to deliver medicines have been fulfilled.Medicines were not only made available to patients from local chemists but were also made available from outside the state and were even delivered in the remotest areas of Himachal Pradesh like Kalpa, Sangla, Pooh and Nichar in Kinnaur district, Nirmand and Anni in Kullu district, Neogal Sari and Nerwa in Shimla district.In Kangra district, essential medicines were provided to patients in response to the requests received through CM helpline and district helpline. Several life-saving medicines were provided at the nearest medical stores or were delivered at the doorsteps of patients. The medicines which were not available in the district and were procured from Pathankot and Chandigarh.In addition to this, due to the proactive efforts of the state government about 250 Himachali students stranded in Goa were also provided medical assistance. As many as 575 vendors have been authorised for home delivery of medicines in the state. These include 20 vendors in Bilaspur, nine in Chamba, 32 in Hamirpur, 44 in Kangra, 19 in Kullu, one in Lahaul-Spiti, 93 in Mandi, 125 in Shimla, 165 in Sirmour, 40 in Solan and 23 in Una district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/helpline-to-facilitate-doorstep-delivery-of-medicines-proves-beneficial-for-hp-residents/story-Q6if5noIKarVPJoURlYCjJ.html
30-04-2020||City||Mumbra’s Kalsekar Hospital will admit Covid patients||Kalsekar Hospital in Mumbra, which had been sealed for a few days after some of its employees were tested Covid positive, has reopened and converted into a Covid-19 hospital.Thane has almost 300 Covid positive cases, with infections increasing exponentially in the last two weeks. Mumbra has the most positive cases at 50 and the Kalsekar hospitals proximity to Mumbra will benefit residents of this area. Thane Municipal Corporation has said the hospital will admit only symptomatic patients and those who can afford to pay their own medical expenses.The hospital is a 120-bed hospital and 80 Covid patients can be accommodated.A TMC official said, “The hospital has all the modern amenities, like ICU and ventilators, which can treat critical patients. The hospital should ensure that Covid and non-Covid patients are properly separated.”Covid positive patients are treated in Thane civil hospital, Horizon Hospital, Kaushalya Hospital and Vedant Hospital. Fifty beds of Bethany Hospital are dedicated for patients suspected to be infected with the virus and have comorbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbra-s-kalsekar-hospital-will-admit-covid-patients/story-O4maoldWBQH25NgzoDRngL.html
30-04-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra sets up office to help people stuck outside state: Pawar||The Maharashtra government has set up an office here to help migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists and students from the state, who are stranded in some other states due to the lockdown, NCP chief Sharad Pawar said on Thursday.Pawar said that the office has been set up under director of Maharashtra’s Disaster Management Authority Abhay Yawalkar.He also shared the contact numbers of the office 022- 22027990, 022-22023039, 9821107565 and 8007902145, where people can dial to seek help.“You (the stranded people) can call on these numbers for help, to get your problems solved,” the former Union minister said during his address via Facebook live.The nationwide lockdown, imposed to contain the spread of novel coronavirus, will be in force till May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sets-up-office-to-help-people-stuck-outside-state-pawar/story-MDXUdNMxOFcgJoH4og208J.html
30-04-2020||Patna||Covid-19: Bihar Dy CM appeals to Centre for special trains to bring back migrants||Bihar Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi on Thursday appealed to the Centre to allow special trains to bring back migrants from distant places to the state. “I appeal GOI to allow special trains to bring migrants from distant places.#WelcomeBihar,” Sushil Modi tweeted today.On Wednesday, the Bihar Deputy Chief Minister had expressed happiness that the Centre has accepted the demand to allow stranded people to return to their homes. “Over 20 lakh people of Bihar are in different States and want to return home. We are happy that the Centre has accepted our demand and allowed people to return to their homes. People will be thoroughly screened at the place of departure and arrival,” he had told ANI.Earlier on Wednesday, giving huge relief to people stuck in various states, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) allowed the movement of such people - including migrant labours, workers, students, tourists and others - and also provided the procedure for the same. (This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/covid-19-bihar-dy-cm-appeals-to-centre-for-special-trains-to-bring-back-migrants/story-U6VdnLdXlteduA1f1geTXN.html
30-04-2020||City||Himachal agri dept to procure 20,000 quintal wheat seed from Una farmers||The Himachal Pradesh agriculture department will procure a total of 20,000 quintal wheat seed from farmers in Una district this season. The wheat seed will be procured at a rate of ₹2,500 per quintal, Una deputy commissioner Sandeep Kumar said on Thursday. Kumar said the Food Corporation of India (FCI) has started procuring wheat from farmers at a rate of ₹ 1,950 per quintal. “By now, FCI’s Kangar godown has procured over 650 quintals of wheat. The godown at Jalgran will also start procurement from Thursday,” he said, adding that 70% of wheat harvesting has been completed in the district. Besides, 90% of potato crop has also been harvested. “Farming activities in containment zones are in full swing,” he said. “In the containment zone of Bangana sub-division, over 90% harvesting has been completed while in Gagret 50% and 60% in Amb,” he added. Over 4,000 curfew passes have been issued to farmers by the agriculture department, he said. Deputy director of agriculture, Suresh Kapoor, said the department has made preparations for sowing of Kharif crop in the district. The department has procured 1,500 quintals maize seed, 2,030 quintals jowar seed and 130 quintals of millet seed and it will be distributed among farmers, he said. TELEMEDICINE FACILITY BENEFITS 450 PATIENTS As many as 450 patients of Una district were benefitted from telemedicine facility which was started by the administration in collaboration with Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh. The facility was launched on April 7 to help people facing medical problems amid countrywide lockdown in wake of coronavirus. Deputy commissioner Sandeep Kumar said patients who want to avail the facility are required to register on 78764-91951 after which they will be given an appointment. The consultation is being provided to registered patients at the rest house of the irrigation and public health where they can connect with experts from PGI. The PGI telemedicine facility caters to 20 patients daily. This facility is being extended to only those patients who are already undergoing treatment at PGIMER and are unable to visit due to lockdown. Kumar said a similar facility is provided by Tagore Heart Care Hospital, Jalandhar and Fortis Hospital, Mohali. A person can contact Tagore Hospital on 62391-27185 and Fortis Hospital on 0172-46922222, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-agri-dept-to-procure-20-000-quintal-wheat-seed-from-una-farmers/story-ypB3Fhh1Tr5HG6cz6kxKAN.html
30-04-2020||Patna||Door-to-door Covid-19 screening in affected districts of Bihar led to identification of more cases: Report||Bihar Health Minister Mangal Pandey on Thursday said that the state health department conducted a door-to-door drive to screen people for coronavirus which led to the identification of more cases in those districts that reported relatively higher number of Covid-19 cases.“Bihar Health Department conducted a door-to-door drive to screen people for Covid-19 in some districts that reported relatively higher number of cases. The door-to-door screening led to identification of more cases in those districts, Pandey told ANI.On April 29, Pandey said that a door-to-door drive to screen people for Covid-19, which has already been completed in seven districts, will commence on May 1 across the state.Speaking to ANI Pandey said, “A door-to-door drive will be conducted to screen people for Covid-19 in all districts of Bihar, starting May 1. The door-to-door screening has already been completed in seven districts of the State.” (This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/door-to-door-covid-19-screening-in-affected-districts-of-bihar-led-to-identification-of-more-cases-report/story-MeTY448qP57IJoyqG41TcO.html
30-04-2020||City||People must wear masks, follow social distancing norms: J&K health experts||After wearing face masks was made mandatory from May 1 by the Jammu and Kashmir administration, health experts are of the view that the move could help check the spread of coronavirus if all the norms are adhered to by the people.Of 87 cases reported in Srinagar district, 34 are active. The administration is now making efforts to provide relaxation in some parts of the city in the coming days.In the coming days, these instructions could be extended in other districts of the Valley. Currently, Covid-19 cases have been reported from all 10 districts of Kashmir, with Bandipore topping the list with 129 cases.Srinagar deputy commissioner Shahid Choudhary said that it shall be mandatory to wear a face mask at all public places from May 1. “We will ensure to make masks available to everyone. Do remember that the use of masks is just one of various precautions needed.’’He said the district administration shall make available for the public use 15 lakh masks produced.Dr Suhail Naik, president of Doctors Association Kashmir (DAK) said that Covid-19 is a long drawn battle for 2021. “Masks are now part of our clothing. Social distancing should be strictly maintained and we should make handwashing a habit.”In fact, many health experts here have been advocating for the use of masks especially when people venture out of their homes.“Wearing masks would help in preventing transmission of the infection to some extent if other norms like social distancing and hand washing are not followed properly,’’ said Dr Salim Khan from Government Medical College Srinagar.“Many NGOs are distributing masks made of two layers of cloth that could be reused after washing and ironing,’’ said Dr Amjid Ali, a doctor at Government Medical College Baramulla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/people-must-wear-masks-follow-social-distancing-norms-j-k-health-experts/story-GD3UeqLsIc3179x8eCZ5gL.html
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||CPI man booked for instigating 112 labourers being quarantined to flee||A man who instigated more than a 100 persons to flee from a quarantine centre in Fazilka late on Wednesday night has been booked by the police.About 112 labourers who were among 1,105 men stranded in Rajasthan and brought back to Abohar could not be accommodated for mandatory quarantining at a centre there because of lack of space.They were being moved by the civil authorities to another quarantine centre at Fazilka in three buses, which got caught in a storm midway. It was then that the men started protesting against the allegedly unsatisfactory quarantine arrangements at Fazilka and fled from the bus.Subeg Singh, a member of the block samiti, who reportedly belongs to the Communist Party of India (CPI), allegedly instigated the men to flee from the bus and they managed to take cover in the darkness and escape to their homes. “He not only provoked them to protest against the government, but also misguided them to leave the quarantine centre (at Abohar),” said Harjeet Singh, senior superintendent of police, Fazilka. The labourers were to be kept at the centre as the Punjab government had ordered mandatory quarantining for anyone entering the state before they were allowed to go home. “All the labourers under the cover of darkness and the storm succeeded in fleeing and going back to their homes,” the SSP added.After a marathon exercise, all the men were traced at their homes later and sent to the Fazilka centre.It was also reported that three centres in the subdivisions of Fazilka, including Fazilka itself and Abohar and Jalalabad were informed that 1,100 persons would be taken there from Rajasthan, but later, chaos ensued when 1,400 men reached the centres and authorities scrambled to accommodate them.Meanwhile, a case under section 269,267 and 188 of the IPC besides section 51 of the Disaster Management Act was registered against Subeg Singh.Despite repeated attempts deputy commissioner, Fazilka, could not be contacted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cpi-man-booked-for-instigating-112-labourers-being-quarantined-to-flee/story-0thbiD25tLedeenqaqkm5I.html
30-04-2020||Delhi||SC seeks CBI reply on parole plea by 1984 anti-Sikh riot convict Khokhar||The Supreme Court on Thursday sought CBI’s response on a plea of former Congress councillor Balwan Khokhar, serving life term in an 1984 anti-Sikh riot case, seeking grant of either interim bail or parole for eight weeks in view of COVID-19 pandemic. Khokhar and former Congress leader Sajjan Kumar are serving life imprisonment in Tihar jail in the case after the Delhi High Court convicted them on December 17, 2018.A bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justice Aniruddha Bose took note of the submissions made by Khokhar’s counsel that prisons need to be decongested to contain the pandemic as has been suggested by courts as also the government. The bench, hearing the plea via video conferencing, then asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the CBI, to file the response. Khokhar was earlier granted 4-week parole on January 15 by the top court following the death of his father.Senior advocate H S Phoolka, who represented riot victims and was in his native village in Punjab, opposed the bail plea.“That the Applicant is constrained to approach this court for enforcement of his rights guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution in order to save his life. Applicant who is a senior citizen around 65 years of age suffering from various ailments like diabetes, hypertension and severe joint pains and is languishing in jail for more than six years. “The applicant has been denied parole which has been liberally granted to hundreds of prisons in the wake of the COVID 19 pandemic putting his life in jeopardy,” the convict said in his plea.It said that in March, when COVID-19 had started gripping the country, a statement was made by Delhi government in the high court that in order to contain the spread of the contagion, it would amend the Prisons Rules to give an option of parole to convicts and under trial prisoners. The convict sought parole under amended Prison Rules 1211 and said that he was suffering from various ailments which made him vulnerable to the virus, it said.The parole was denied to the convict under the Rule which prohibited such a relief in cases where investigations have been conducted by the CBI. “That rejection of applicant’s prayer for parole on this very ground is apparently unjustifiable and unconstitutional being violative of Article 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India,” it said.Earlier, the top court had said that it would hear the bail plea of other convict Sajjan Kumar in the case during summer vacation. Khokhar’s life sentence was upheld by the Delhi High Court in 2018, while it had reversed the acquittal of Kumar by the trial court in 2013, in a case related to the killings of five Sikhs in the Raj Nagar Part-I area in Palam Colony in southwest Delhi on November 1-2, 1984, and burning down of a gurdwara in Raj Nagar Part-II.The anti-Sikh riots had broken out after the assassination of then prime minister Indira Gandhi on October 31, 1984 by her two Sikh bodyguards.The high court had also upheld the conviction and varying sentences awarded by the trial court to the other five -- Khokhar, retired naval officer Captain Bhagmal, Girdhari Lal and former MLAs Mahender Yadav and Kishan Khokhar.It had also convicted them for criminal conspiracy to burn down residences of Sikh families and a gurdwara in the area during the riots.The trial court in 2013 had awarded life term to Balwan Khokhar, Bhagmal and Lal, and a three-year jail term to Yadav and Kishan Khokhar.Following the high court verdict, life term of Balwan Khokhar, Bhagmal and Lal has been upheld and the sentence of Yadav and Kishan Khokar has been enhanced to 10 years in jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sc-seeks-cbi-reply-on-parole-plea-by-1984-anti-sikh-riot-convict-khokhar/story-y0MPTiZF4bWtitfLQrRtCN.html
30-04-2020||City||Himachal CM expresses grief over Rishi Kapoor’s death||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur expressed grief over the demise of film star Rishi Kapoor who died in Mumbai on Thursday morning.Expressing his sorrow, the CM said that Rishi Kapoor was a versatile actor, who in his five-decade-long illustrious career won the hearts of millions by his acting skills in films like Bobby, Naseeb, Karz, Coolie, Chandni, Prem Rog and Henna.He said that his contribution to the Indian film industry was immense and will always be remembered as a fine actor and a thorough gentleman.He prayed the Almighty to give peace to the departed soul and strength to the bereaved family members for this irreparable loss.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-cm-expresses-grief-over-rishi-kapoor-s-death/story-ASSV0XypQRgzEkZlfYJoVP.html
30-04-2020||City||People who have returned from other states must inform authorities or face action: Himachal DGP||People who have returned to Himachal Pradesh from other states must inform the authorities or stern action will be taken against them, said director general of police (DGP) Sita Ram Mardi on Thursday.“If found Covid-19 positive, they will be booked under the toughest sections,” said the state police chief, exhorting people to tip off authorities if someone in their neighbourhood had returned from outside and is concealing the information. He also said that those coming from outside the state must obtain the e-pass of the district they want to go to. “Entering a district on e-pass pass of another district will be tantamount to concealment of information,” he said.As per government records around 23,000 people have entered Himachal this week, since the government opened the borders to facilitate return of those stuck outside the state. Over 3 lakh people had applied for e-passes to return to state. Authorities have issued as many as 90,000 passes and the process of issuing passes has now been put on hold till further orders. Mardi said that some people were jumping quarantine which also warrants action against the offenders. “As per the health ministry guidelines, those, who are under home quarantine should use mask; use separate utensils and avoid contact with the elders,” said Mardi.He expressed disappointment that some people did not understand the purpose of lockdown. “A man fled from a quarantine centre at Parwanoo. Strict action is being taken against him. Similarly, a man was booked in Mandi town for spitting in hospital premises while three shops were sealed in Hamirpur for not following the social distancing norms,” said Mardi.The DGP also said that the police had busted a gang in Paonta Sahib for issuing fake e-passes. They even possessed the official seal of the sub-divisional magistrate.He said that if someone has some fake news, they may post it on faeknews.hp.gov.in portal and government will clarify the matter. People may also inform the government about fake news on 98163-23469, said the DGP.He also advised the people to be on the alert against scamsters who were duping people in the name of online tutorials.“Children may also play games on Google Doodle, as these are not harmful. They or even adults may read WHO’s children stories which provide information about Covid-19,” said the DGP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/people-who-have-returned-from-other-states-must-inform-authorities-or-face-action-dgp/story-gF0q3O6L3IXzH3zVolDOcM.html
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana unlocks school at home campaign for students amid Covid-19 lockdown||Stay at home, study at home and school at home. That’s Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s 3S mantra, coined during a recent pep talk to home-bound students.Coinciding with the 3S principle, the education department and State Council of Education Research and Training (SCERT), launched Ghar Se Padhao Abhiyan, an e-learning campaign to connect parents and students with over 50,000 teachers through WhatsApp, SMS and phone calls across the state to start academic activities.There are 8,686 government-run primary, 2,423 middle and 1,154 high schools spread across 22 districts of the state.REGULAR MONITORING, FEEDBACKAccording to Saksham Haryana cell monitoring this campaign, 8.5 lakh students from Classes 1 to 12 are being engaged daily. At the end of the week, 1,800 mentors call 15 parents each for feedback.While math and Hindi lessons are being taught to primary school students, the focus is on science and math in middle and high school. Teachers contact parents over phone also to share homework every day and students are maintaining a dedicated notebook to record their activities at home.“The content is coming from multiple sources and it is being evaluated and monitored at the state level before being sent to the teachers,” an official said.SCERT director Kiran Mayee said: “The contribution of SCERT has been valuable for the Saksham Haryana initiative. Ghar Se Padhao Abhiyan is innovative and important to engage students during the lockdown.”NOT ALL OWN SMARTPHONESBut a large number of students don’t have a smart phone and access to internet. Steps are afoot to prepare the content that can be transferred via text message also.“By mid-May we are hoping to start connecting with students through text message also. We are finalising SMS-friendly content,” said an official.According to the project director of the Chief Minister’s Good Governance Associates (CMGGA), Dr Rakesh Gupta, until the schools re-open in July, teachers will continue to engage the students in academic activities.CMGGA is monitoring Saksham Haryana cell and Ghar Se Padhao Abhiyan.“During this period, we want teachers to raise the levels of students who are weak in mathematics and science and need handholding,” Dr Gupta said.APPRECIATION AND MOTIVATIONIn Sirsa and Jind, teachers have started issuing certificates of appreciation to students and their parents for good performance. In Kaithal, the Whatsapp group highlights the “star students” each day to promote and motivate hard work.In Jhajjar, the homework of each student is shared publicly after correction to encourage the students.Director, elementary education, Pradeep Daggar said, “We want teachers to regularly remain in contact with students during the lockdown. This will motivate them to study regularly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-unlocks-school-at-home-campaign-for-students-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-sbFD2pfJkKCFmPEGmhsX6H.html
30-04-2020||City||Groom among 3 booked for taking out ‘barat’ in ambulance||Nine members of a family, including newly-wed couple, were quarantined after they returned from Ghaziabad to Khatauli town of Muzaffarnagar in a hired ambulance in the guise of patients, police said on Thursday.Police have also registered a case against ambulance driver, groom and his father in Khatauli police station on Wednesday.“The accused have violated rules of lockdown therefore a case has been registered against them under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC),” said Santosh Singh, station house officer (SHO), Khatauli.Meanwhile, nine members of the family, including the newly-wed couple, have been placed under home quarantine for 14 days.Hazi Israr is a resident of Islam Nagar locality, which has been declared hotspot following five corona positive cases in the area. Hazi had fixed marriage of his son Irfan in a family of Dasna in Ghaziabad.Hazi contacted an ambulance driver Mehtab and they hired his ambulance to visit Dasna in guise of patients and returned with the newly-wed couple on Tuesday.SHO said that cops on the way didn’t stop the ambulance and they took advantage of it.However, someone from Hazi’s neighbourhood informed police about their mischievous act on Wednesday and their misdeed was exposed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/groom-among-3-booked-for-taking-out-barat-in-ambulance/story-OTBIv8eEDMTK3b34OLsZ2I.html
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||23 Nanded pilgrims test Covid-19 positive, dist tally up by 164% in a day||Twenty-three persons from the district tested positive for Covid-19 at Amritsar’s Government Medical College (GMC) here on Thursday. All of them were pilgrims returning from Takht Sri Huzur Sahib in Nanded, a historic Sikh shrine in Maharashtra, health department spokesperson for Covid-19, Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, confirmed.With this, the district’s count went up from 14 to 37, a jump of 164% in a day, with 29 active cases. Two persons died from the disease while six have recovered and been discharged from hospital.The pilgrims had reached Amritsar three days ago and were quarantined at the government’s centre. Their samples were sent to GMC and 23 pilgrims tested positive in confirmatory reports. They have been admitted in the isolation ward of GMC”, said health department official, who do not wish to be named.“Their contacts are being traced and reports of many other Nanded-returnees are awaited,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/23-nanded-pilgrims-test-covid-19-positive-dist-tally-up-by-164-in-a-day/story-Mjut7EcJeSCKEF0TOXZgNK.html
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||Cattle feast on cabbage, cauliflowers in Himachal as prices plummet||Farmers in Himachal are in a lurch as they are unable to sell their produce for a good price amid the coronavirus lockdown, as such many farmers have fed their produce to cattle.The price of vegetables had shot up during the initial days of the pandemic. However, with the supply chain in disarray, the prices of vegetables have drastically dropped as the local markets have surplus vegetables.The farmers, particularly, those growing, pea, cauliflower and cabbage are suffering huge losses as the rates for these vegetables have plummeted. Theog, Mashobra and Chail sell their produce the fruit and vegetable market in Dhalli. While, the farmers in Shimla’s surrounding areas such as Dhamun panchayats also sell vegetables in Shimla.The prices of peas, cauliflower and cabbage have dropped drastically in the last three days. “It is due to the plumetting prices that we have started feeding the produce to animals. Farmers will not be able to pay off the loans raised for sowing of crops,” said a farmer, Rajendra Thakur, of Thraia village.In the first week of April, pea was being sold for ₹25 per kg. However, the rate has dropped to ₹15.“Despite, toiling day and night, farmers have failed to procure minimum price for their produce. Consequently, they are feeding the produce to their cattle,” said Surender Thakur.“The pea is rotting in fields as when the government allotted permission for transportation, the prices dropped due to glutting of vegetables in the local market,” said Jitender singh, who demanded a loan waiver for farmers.President, Arhti Association Harish Thakur in Dhalli Sabzi Mandi says most of vegetables producedin Himachal have markets in Mumbai and Delhi. “However, due to the lockdown they are unable to supply vegetables to the big cities.” HP Fruit Vegetables and Flowers association president Harish Chauhan said due to the coronavirus, the supply chain of seasonal vegetables had been badly affected causing huge losses to farmers as well as fruit marketers.“Most big fruit markets of the country have been shutdown due to the coronavirus and there are limited buyers and sellers in the state. We request the government to compensate farmers who have suffered losses,” he said.Agriculture is an important source of the state’s income. Around 12.73% of the total gross state domestic produce comes from agriculture and its allied sectors. Off the total area of state, which is 55.67 lakh hectares, the area under operational holding is around 9.55 lakh hectares. Around 9.61 lakh farmers grow crop on the land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cattle-feast-on-cabbage-cauliflowers-in-himachal-as-prices-plummet/story-IZKJLhKX0pqksUlKWWdI4H.html
30-04-2020||City||Stop virtual classes: Request emails to flood CM’s inbox on May 1||If the teachers have their way, the email account of chief minister Yogi Adityanath is likely to go low on storage on May 1.Reason: Thousands of teachers from across Uttar Pradesh are likely to shoot an email with a request to revoke the decision for holding online or virtual classes in UP Board schools.To make the exercise effective, the emails will be shot exactly at noon on May 1, said a teacher.The unanimous decision in this regard was taken by members of Uttar Pradesh Madhyamik Shikshak Sangh (UPMSS) (Thakurai faction) at a telephonic meet held on Wednesday.According to state general secretary of the teachers’ organization, Lal Mani Diwedi, more than half of the students registered in over 27,000 schools affiliated to the Board could not afford facilities for attending online classes while nearly one fourth did not even have a Smartphone at their disposal.“I am a teacher at Kesar Vidyapeeth in Prayagraj. Out of a total of 36 students in class 8, only 11 could be registered in the WhatsApp group of which only four responded to my teaching in past 10 days. It is literally not possible. Unlike other educational board, parents of students studying in UP Board institutions are not so well educated that they would assist their kids in attending online classes,” he said.As per Diwedi, thousands of teachers would press the button sending request on email of UP chief minister for intervening in the matter and stopping virtual classes in UP Board schools as the measure was making mockery of the present state of schools and back ground of parents studying in these schools.Meanwhile, state general secretary of Rajkiya Shikshak Sangh Ravi Bhushan said that at a time when most of the government high school and inter colleges affiliated to UP Board were without a computer teacher, how would the teachers of different subjects not having knowledge of computers or virtual classes plan out curriculum for online classes and conduct the same.Reports revealed, out of over 27,000 schools affiliated to UP Board, 2294 government schools did not have even one computer teacher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stop-virtual-classes-request-emails-to-flood-cm-s-inbox-on-may-1/story-HPn3xKhV7dL3Nm3HtFOHoL.html
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||Sub-inspector Harjeet Singh discharged from PGI; says it’s ‘great to be back home’||Punjab Police sub-inspector Harjeet Singh, whose hand was chopped off by a group of Nihlangs, was discharged from the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research Chandigarh on Thursday.Harjeet was brought to Patiala in a special Punjab Police SUV. Top officials of the Punjab Police were part of the convoy, which included 10 vehicles. The Patiala police officials rolling out a red carpet and had a police band play at his homecoming.“It is great to be back home. I thank each and everyone for supporting and praying for me in this tough time,” said Harjeet, on arriving home.Patiala’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Mandeep Singh Sidhu presented him a siropa and said “Harjeet went as an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) and came back a sub-inspector (SI). His bravery has been rewarded.”It was double delight for Harjeet’s family as the Punjab director general of police Dinkar Gupta handed his son Arshpreet Singh, 24, an appointment letter for the post of constable in the Punjab Police.“My family and I will always remain thankful for the support we have received from top officials,” Harjeet said.Recalling the incident, Harjeet said he had kept his calm after his hand was dismembered: “We are trained to bear pain and the will power to be back with my family helped me recover. The team of doctors who performed the seven-hour long surgery are no less that God for me and my family,” he said. Harjeet had been enforcing curfew outside the main vegetable market in Patiala when the attack took place. The former assistant sub-inspector had calmly gathered his severed hand and rushed to the hospital on a scooter.RECOVERY TO TAKE SIX MONTHSIt will take another six months for his hand to fully recover. PGIMER spokesperson Dr Ashok Kumar said a team of doctors from the plastic surgery department had examined the re-attached hand on Wednesday evening and Thursday morning, following which he was deemed fit to be discharged.Head of the plastic surgery department Dr RK Sharma slight physiotherapy had been started and they expected his hand movements to improve.“We will meet him once a week in the initial phase to monitor his improvements. He has to take a number of precautions such as making guarded movements. He hand has been kept in a splint to avoid spontaneous movement. So far, he has shown a remarkable recovery.”CAPT AMARINDER THANKS PGIPunjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday thanked PGIMER’s doctors and paramedical staff for re-implanting the SI’s hand: “Happy to share that SI Harjeet Singh has been discharged from PGI, Chandigarh, today. I thank doctors, nurses, paramedics and all the staff of PGI for taking good care of him,” the chief minister tweeted. (With Inputs from IANS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sub-inspector-harjeet-singh-discharged-from-pgi-says-it-s-great-to-be-back-home/story-6u0xSIlvdK9tKeUP9HmwFL.html
30-04-2020||Kolkata||Over 2,000 students being brought back home from Kota: Bengal Home Secretary||A total of 2,368 students from West Bengal are set to return home from Rajasthan’s Kota - the coaching hub for engineering and medical aspirants -- in about 95 buses arranged by the state government, Home Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said on Thursday. Taking to Twitter, Bandyopadhyay said government officials were escorting the stranded students back to the state and they were expected to reach Bengal by Friday.Also read: Nitish Kumar says no to getting students back from Kota. Then explains “2,368 students of West Bengal are being brought back from Kota in 95 buses with State government officers as escorts and likely to reach tomorrow,” Bandyopadhyay tweeted. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had on Monday said that the process to bring back students stuck in Kota had been initiated and they would soon start the journey back home. “I am personally overseeing this and we will leave no stone unturned in ensuring that everyone gets any possible help. The initiation has already started and all students from Bengal stuck in Kota would begin their journey back soon,” she had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/over-2-000-students-being-brought-back-home-from-kota-bengal-home-secretary/story-6gbsyN46oLw3UZsvjiplEP.html
30-04-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Police remove over 600 misleading social media posts on Covid-19, share tips to spot fake news||The Mumbai Police have pulled down more than 600 objectionable posts related to the coronavirus pandemic from social media platforms, officials said on Thursday. The posts include video and audio clips, communal posts, photos and fake news.Five FIRs have also been registered in this regard and 155 accused arrested so far, said Harish Baijal, deputy inspector general of Mumbai Police’s cyber wing.A senior police officer told Hindustan Times that the Social Media Lab (SML) of Special Branch-1, the intelligence wing of Mumbai Police, has pulled down objectionable posts during the lockdown period. “These posts were highly misleading, baseless and had potential to trigger panic among people and also communal tension in the city,” the officer said.The officer further added that the messages circulating initially on the social media platforms had misinformation regarding Covid-19, but later, messages on the Tablighi Jamaat incident of Delhi spread like wildfire.“We keep close eye on trends and patterns and analyse them to identify the platforms or groups which are regularly spreading such inflammatory videos or posts. Then appropriate legal action is taken against such elements,” another officer said.A team of 30 highly trained, technologically sound, multilingual officers keep an eagle’s eye on the suspicious activities on various social media platforms. These officers work in three shifts so that the monitoring continues for 24 hours, 7 days a week.They look for objectionable content on popular platforms such as Facebook, Twitter, TikTok, Instagram, YouTube, Telegram etc with the help of advanced filter tools. Once objectionable content is discovered, it is immediately blocked or removed with the help of the service providers. Members of this team are regularly given training by Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT), anti-terror agencies and other government agencies about the new tools, filters and softwares that can be used to trace troublemakers operating online.How it’s done:Whenever a ‘problematic’ content is identified on internet by the Social Media Lab (SML) officials, it is sent to an Additional Commissioner of Police (ACP) or Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) of Special Branch. After senior officials find it fit for further action, they approve the same for sending it to the cyber wing, which is the nodal authority of Mumbai Police for such action. While sending out instructions, the senior officials also keep in mind that freedom of speech or artistic or creative liberty is not curbed.The cyber police then writes email to concerned service provider under Section 91 of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) and request them to remove the content.“The service providers do not accept the police’s request everytime as they adhere to their local laws and are not bound by our laws. But, in cases related to terrorism or any other emergency they usually accept our request and promptly remove the content from their platform. They also follow a verification process before taking down the content,” a DCP rank officer said, who once headed the cyber police decision, told Hindustan Times.The police officers also shared tips on how to spot fake news:• Fake news often goes viral: Even if a message, post or video is shared multiple times and you receive it from multiple sources, consider the fact that a matter being shared multiple times does not make it true.• Look for mistakes and errors in messages: Most fake messages are full of spelling mistakes and grammatical errors.• Check the ‘unbelievable’ information: On receiving information that seems a little far-fetched, check on internet, official websites to determine whether it is true or not.• Photos, videos can be edited: Always understand that it is not difficult to edit photos and videos. Even if a photo is real, it is not a tough task to spin a story around it. Always look online to see where the photo came from.• Check links as well: Sometimes links look like they are too well-known websites but there are often spelling mistakes and unusual characters present in them.• Don’t share if your are unsure: If you are unaware of the source or are unsure about the information, then avoid sharing such matters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-remove-over-600-misleading-social-media-posts-on-covid-19-share-tips-to-spot-fake-news/story-kxU4yCbSzntwj8C1uFV7GK.html
30-04-2020||Pune||127 more Covid-19 cases in Pune, district tally reaches 1722||127 more coronavirus cases have been reported from Pune in the last 12 hours, taking the total number of Covid-19 cases in the district to 1,722, informed District Health Officer Bhagwan Pawar on Thursday.Meanwhile, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra have neared 10,000, and over 400 patients have died due to the infection in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/127-more-covid-19-cases-in-pune-district-tally-reaches-1722/story-knSpP0ioU6GQxApU95EU1K.html
30-04-2020||Delhi||Government’ social (network) spin to PSAs||The government is connecting with Gen Y in a language they speak, and on mediums they prefer. Memos and circulars are a thing of the past as these bodies have tapped into the strengths of social media. Witty hashtags, concise visuals and newsy infographics have taken over, flooding popular social networking sites with news you can use.MyGov, an independent government body, is capitalizing on this trend to create interest around various policies, especially those surrounding coronavirus pandemic. “In today’s times, you can’t expect people to log into a website; you have to go and communicate to where the people are. You have to talk to them in the language that works on those platforms. They don’t want gyan, they want crisp messaging. We share our content with other departments so that it can be repurposed and shared. The idea is to involve as many people as possible so that it becomes a citizen’s movement,” says Abhishek Singh, CEO, MyGov.   Watch this video of famous Indian cricketer @harbhajan3 & Bollywood Actress @geetabasra making a mask at home in a few simple steps. Take the #TeamMaskForce challenge in 3 steps: 1. Create your own mask 2. Share a pic/video using #TeamMaskForce 3. Tag 3 of your friendsA post shared by  MyGov, Government of India (@mygovindia) on Apr 20, 2020 at 4:42am PDTThe body roped in Indian cricketers and launched a campaign, #TheMaskForce to make people understand the importance of wearing a mask in helping curb the spread of coronavirus. Another campaign, #SetuMeraBodyguard, has actor Ajay Devgn backing the government’s Aarogya Setu app which gives timely updates, tips and instructions in the fight against coronavirus. “We have leveraged all platforms and even started a chatbot on WhatsApp. We are on apps like Facebook Messenger, Instagram, Telegram, TikTok and Helo. Some of these apps have surprised us in terms of their reach. More people have watched Mann ki Baat on Helo than on YouTube,” he informs. Nothing beats the original track, plus we have a bias as we feature in it. 😃#Masakali2https://t.co/2t0MT0JijRAnother government undertaking, DMRC (Delhi Metro Rail Corporation), has been keeping commuters and users engaged through playlists and topical visuals. Viral trends are also taken into consideration while designing the posts. Their take on the remix of the Masakali song received rave reviews. “On one side our campaigns have focused on what DMRC is doing during these days and on the other, we have tried to interact with people through quiz shows, interesting trivia etc. Our campaigns have received tremendous response from the people and response has been overwhelmingly positive,” says Anuj Dayal, Executive Director, Corporate Communication, DMRC. Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htlifeandstyle for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/government-social-network-spin-to-psas/story-lljSFD4xxL1BzROB2W7o9O.html
30-04-2020||Lucknow||CM Adityanath asks UP officials to prepare action plan for return of migrants||As Uttar Pradesh prepares for the return of stranded migrants, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has asked officials to keep ready quarantine centres, shelter homes and community kitchens for about six lakh people. Adityanath also appealed to those stranded in other states to be patient and not start walking towards their homes. “Maintain patience that you have shown till now. A detailed plan is being prepared after contacting states concerned to ensure that all return to their homes safely. Therefore, stay where you are and remain in contact with the respective state governments. Do not start moving on foot,” he said in a tweet on Thursday. An official spokesman said the state government has written letters to different states seeking detailed data on migrant labourers and workers of UP along with their names, mobile numbers and addresses as well as medical reports.The spokesman said workers stranded in Madhya Pradesh will be brought back on Thursday and those in Gujarat on Friday by buses.The UP government had on March 28-29 facilitated the return of around 4 lakh people from Delhi.The government has also ensured the return of about 50,000 people from Haryana and Rajasthan.Around 13,000 people are being brought back from Haryana.Earlier the government brought back 11,500 students of the state from Kota in Rajasthan and ensured that 15,000 students from Prayagraj return safely to their homes in different districts of the state, the spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/cm-adityanath-asks-up-officials-to-prepare-action-plan-for-return-of-migrants/story-Ku09rIFhlOefxxbPTMSC3M.html
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||Residents stop cops from buying drugs, booked for attack, curfew violation in Kapurthala||A day after three cops were arrested for violating curfew to purchase drugs, three residents of Lakhan Kalan village have also been booked by the Kapurthala police for attacking them and putting others’ lives at risk.The accused are Harpreet Singh, Ravi Kumar and Jagga of Lakhan Kalan.Inquiry officer sub-inspector Jaswant Singh said a video, which has since gone viral, shows some locals stopping cops in uniform in violation of the district magistrate’s orders. The three persons also manhandled the cops when they were found to be in possession of drugs. The video, which caused much embarrassment, to the police, shows that on being cornered, the cops tried to flee and a syringe fell from the pocket of one of the cops. Locals later found drugs in their possession.The locals have been booked under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. The cops, who were cornered, are constable Dyal Singh and constable Jagjeet Singh, who are posted at PAP Jalandhar; and constable Germanjeet Singh, who is posted at the Jalandhar commissionerate.The accused were posted in Jalandhar and they had gone to the village in Kapurthala district on April 3 for purchasing drugs.Sub-inspector Avtar Singh of Sadar police station, Kapurthala, said that a medical check-up conducted at the Kapurthala civil hospital confirmed that the accused had taken drugs. A doctor, on condition of anonymity, said the cops were addicted to heroin. The cops were booked under Sections 188 (disobeying a public servant’s order) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection) of the Indian Penal Code, the Disaster Management Act and the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/residents-stop-cops-from-buying-drugs-booked-for-attack-curfew-violation-in-kapurthala/story-4r75YotyKrdeCqIWJcT3DN.html
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||7 Hazur Sahib pilgrims test Covid-19 positive in Tarn Taran, one in Moga||Seven Hazur Sahib pilgrims, who had returned from Nanded, Maharashtra, tested positive for the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Thursday, taking the district count to 15. Deputy commissioner (DC) Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal said of the 15 cases in the district, 14 are Hazur Sahib returnees.The patients are a 53-year-old man, 55-year-old woman and 54-year-old woman from Patti, a 57-year-old woman and 26-year-old man from Sursingh village, while a 50-year-old man and 72-year-old man tested positive in Dilawalpur. Two persons found covid positive in Sangrur. Their samples were taken at checkpost mounted on Patiala-Sangrur road near Amargarh.MOGA COUNT REACHES FIVE  One Hazur Sahib pilgrim tested positive for the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Moga on Thursday, taking the districts count to five.The man, a resident of Ghaloti village in Dharamkot sub-division, was admitted to the isolation ward of Moga’s civil hospital. Earlier, Moga had been declared Covid-19 free after all four positive patients recovered from the disease.Civil surgeon Dr Andesh Kang said, “A total of 90 pilgrims have returned to the district from Hazur Sahib. These pilgrims were quarantine upon their return and their swab samples were sent for testing. The reports of 60 others are awaited. At present, there is only one active case in the district.”A group of 20 pilgrims had returned from Maharashtra’s Hazur Sahib in a private vehicle on Monday. They had gone for the pilgrimage in the second week of March, but were stranded there after a lockdown was imposed.Ten returnees have also tested positive in Punjab’s Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/7-hazur-sahib-pilgrims-test-covid-19-positive-in-tarn-taran-one-in-moga/story-A1A4H88nZiLUnLejSKyY2H.html
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||10 pilgrims back from Maharashtra’s Nanded town test positive for Covid-19 in Mohali||With 11 new cases of Covid-19 reported from Mohali on Thursday, the district count of positive patients has gone up to 84.Ten of the 11 new patients have returned from Takht Hazur Sahib in Nanded, Maharashtra, civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said here.Of the pilgrims, three are from Premgarh village in Aerocity, two from Manak Majra, one each from Amrala, Badana, Raipur Khurd and Saini Majra. They include six women. The men are aged between 17 and 58.On Wednesday, five pilgrims, including three women, had tested positive.A 35-year old male employee of Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, and a resident of Mullanpur in Mohali district, tested positive. He is admitted at PGIMER. The civil surgeon said all 10 pilgrims have been admitted at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.“Nine more people arrived from Takht Hazur Sahib on Wednesday evening. We will take their samples today,” he said.Mohali now has 52 active cases out of the 84 reported so far. Thirty patients have recovered and two have died.A total of 1,411 samples have been taken and of these, 1,260 were found negative, while the results of the rest are awaited.Extensive sampling is being conducted in the containment zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-pilgrims-back-from-maharashtra-s-nanded-town-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-mohali/story-umB6HGRih0QiloZ1Jfab2N.html
30-04-2020||Patna||6-month-old, one-year-old girl among Bihar’s 37 new Covid-19 cases||Thirty-seven more people have tested positive for the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) in Bihar, taking the total number of patients undergoing treatment in the state to 403, officials said.Bihar Health Department Principal Secretary Sanjay Kumar on Wednesday said of those found positive for the dreaded virus include 3 from Patna, 3 from Rohtas, 14 from Buxar, 2 each from Begusarai and Bhojpur, 4 from Darbhanga, 5 from West Champaran and one each from Aurangabad, Vaishali, Madhepura and Sitamarhi.Those found positive on Wednesday in Buxar also include a six-month-old and one-year-old girl.So far, more than 21,468 samples have been tested in the state.Till now, a total of 64 people have been discharged from the hospitals after treatment.In Bihar, Munger district has reported the maximum 92 cases out of 29 districts affected by the coronavirus outbreak, while 42 cases have been reported in Patna, 35 in Nalanda, 34 in Rohtas and 30 in Siwan.Health Department Secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said on Wednesday that door-to-door screening of Coronavirus-affected districts is being done. “As per the guidelines laid down, so far, a total of 75,23,000 houses have been surveyed. Of them, 3,173 people have been found to have symptoms of common cold, cough and fever but not necessarily corona infected,” he said.He said, “All the persons who have come from outside are constantly being monitored, and their health reports are also being taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/6-month-old-one-year-old-girl-among-bihar-s-37-new-covid-19-cases/story-IRTIGDo0F3xA4AdPb8j8PI.html
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Covid-19 count doubles in 96 hours, tally touches 73||In a worrisome trend, Covid-19 cases in the city have doubled in the last 96 hours. Chandigarh had reported 36 cases on April 26, while the tally stood at 73 on the morning of April 30.Five people tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Thursday, taking the UT’s count to 73.The patients are a 24-year-old man from Bapudham Colony, a 14-year-old boy and 39-year-old woman from Sector 52, and a 10-year-old boy and 32-year-old woman from Sector 30.UT health secretary Arun Kumar Gupta said positive cases from Bapudham Colony and Sector 52 are the contacts of a 30-year-old man from Bapudham Colony who had tested positive on April 24.The Sector-30 patients had come in contact with those who had tested positive during a door-to-door screening.As many as 61% cases reported in Chandigarh have been detected in last six days. However, the source of infection, which started the transmission, has not been ascertained yet.79-YEAR-OLD ADMITTED TO ICUDoctors at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, said barring a 79-year-old woman from Sector 38, who has been admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) of the Covid-19 centre, all other patients are stable. “One 79-year-old woman from Sector 38, who had been shifted from the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital is being assisted through nasal prongs,” an official spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-covid-19-count-doubles-in-96-hours-tally-touches-73/story-AhiKtS1PQdCBEuFaT5cK9H.html
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||10 test positive for Covid-19 in Jhajjar||Ten people tested positive for the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Jhajjar’s Bahadurgarh on Thursday, taking the district’s count to 18. Nine patients are vegetable vendors at Bahadurgarh mandi, while one patient is the wife of an infected pharmacist, who worked at a hospital in Delhi, said Jhajjar civil surgeon Randeep Punia.The infected vendors frequented Delhi’s Azadpur mandi to collect vegetables, authorities suspect they contracted the infection there. Their samples were collected three days ago.“The 10 patients have been admitted to the isolation ward at PGIMS, Rohtak,” Punia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/10-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-jhajjar/story-OuHvLYwEpMOfSMB4bTbwsL.html
30-04-2020||Bangalore||Locals create ruckus as Covid-19 health staff conducts survey in Karnataka, 5 booked||An FIR was registered on Wednesday against five locals after a ruckus erupted between ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) worker and locals in Sindagi area of Vijayapura on Wednesday.ASHA workers had gone to the area to conduct a survey related to Covid-19.The FIR has been filed under several sections of the Indian Penal Code -- Section 353, 504 and 506.The five accused have been identified as Basha Sab Dafedara, Mehboobsab Dafedar, Sohail Walikar, Saddam Dafedar and Jainabi Arab.Further, an investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/locals-create-ruckus-as-covid-19-health-staff-conducts-survey-in-karnataka-5-booked/story-66xLuBxtnz5I0Jec2D9kPK.html
30-04-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka road transport body sets up mobile Covid-19 clinic||A mobile fever clinic to identify patients with symptoms of coronavirus and a mini-bus to collect throat swab samples from suspected patients have been designed by KSRTC at its workshop here.The two vehicles have been converted into mobile clinics on the directions from the Dakshina Kannada administration for use in the district and under the guidance of Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation’s (KSRTC) divisional controller H S Arun.The conversion of buses into mobile clinics is in line with the railways’ move to convert rail coaches into isolation wards.The bus would enable medical check-up for patients and medical counselling. Different cabins are set up for the driver, doctors and the general public in the bus. Sanitizers and wash-basins are also provided.Speaker, microphone and medical examination facilities are provided in the bus where the people can have consultation. Seats are arranged ensuring social distancing guidelines.The bus is also equipped with a television set to provide information, a tank for collecting waste water, separate seating for nurses, resting place for doctors and other medical staff, fans, LED lights, mobile charger units and laptop charger systems.A separate mini-bus is to be used for collecting throat swabs of suspects. The mobile fever clinic bus would move around places where Covid-19 positive cases have been detected and other areas as required by the health authorities.The mobile clinic would have a doctor, nurse, and a group- D employee. The bus has facilities to check fever, cough and respiratory problems. It has also been provided with a thermal scanner and blood pressure monitor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-road-transport-body-sets-up-mobile-covid-19-clinic/story-GCuFW4RpC1zuGmzOio1rwI.html
30-04-2020||Education||West Bengal will take a call on publication of WBBSE results after lockdown||The date of publication of the results of the West Bengal Secondary Examination will be fixed after normalcy returns and lockdown is lifted, Education minister Partha Chatterjee said on Wednesday.Chatterjee told reporters the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education(WBBSE) will take a call on deciding on the date of publication of results after normalcy is restored and lockdown is lifted.“The sorting, evaluation process of papers are going on full swing after the exams were completed in February and the rest of the job won’t take much of time once normalcy returns. We will decide accordingly,” he said.The minister said the exams for the remaining two Higher Secondary papers will be undertaken after June 10.“We will prioritise completing the HS exam process first after June 10,” he said.Chatterjee said the academic calendar of different state universities and affiliated colleges, involving 19 lakh students in UG and PG, will be fixed by the respective universities in consultation with the higher education department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/west-bengal-will-take-a-call-on-publication-of-wbbse-results-after-lockdown/story-6Zp6SrcJzkTCutQL2tSEvM.html
30-04-2020||Bangalore||Work for Karnataka’s Shivamogga smart city resumes after lockdown relaxation||Work for Shivamogga smart city has resumed after the government provided relaxation during the lockdown period.Chetan, a private construction contractor said: “We are maintaining social distance. Work started only after DCP passed the order allowing it to resume.”The lockdown, which was first imposed last month, has been extended to curb the spread of coronavirus.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here According to information available on the website of ministry of health and family welfare, as of 5:30 am on Thursday, 532 cases have been reported from the state with 215 cured/migrated/discharged and 20 deaths.The total number of positive coronavirus cases across the country are 31,787, including 22,982 active cases of the virus, as per data provided by Union ministry of health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/work-for-karnataka-s-shivamogga-smart-city-resumes-after-lockdown-relaxation/story-ojE2j6bJqKyqnlo3DSEiLJ.html
30-04-2020||Bangalore||Covid-19: KSRTC converts bus into Mobile Fever Clinic||Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has converted one of its buses into a Mobile Fever Clinic, in wake of Covid-19 pandemic.The move has been taken by the state government to ensure sufficient availability of basic medical facilities for people as the country deals to contain the spread of coronavirus.The bus was flagged off on Wednesday, according to the KSRTC, the cost of this clinic construction on a bus is Rs 50,000.The facilities provided in the bus include a bed, seating facility, medicine box, washing basin, sanitizer, soap oil, separate water facility, fan and other required arrangements among others. Last week, KSRTC had converted a bus into a clinic in Mysuru as well, to treat Covid-19 patients.Meanwhile, the State has reported 532 Covid-19 positive cases so far, according to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/covid-19-ksrtc-converts-bus-into-mobile-fever-clinic/story-asDJOhNexoYr8eniRkpwPP.html
30-04-2020||Patna||Movement of persons, vehicles in non essential services to be stopped at inter-dist boundaries: Bihar Additional Chief Secy||Bihar’s Additional Chief Secretary wrote to all District Magistrates and police officers stating that the movement of persons and vehicles, except for those engaged in essential services on the inter-district boundaries, should be effectively stopped. In a letter, Amir Subhani, Additional Chief Secretary wrote, “In the last few days, it has been found that people who have gone from one district of Bihar to another district have been found to be Covid-19 positive. This means that the movement of persons or vehicles on the inter-district boundaries is not effectively hindered. This situation is worrying.”“Therefore, it is requested that the movement of persons or vehicles on the district boundaries should be effectively checked 24 hours. No one should be allowed, accept the legitimate pass holders or persons or vehicles involved in essential activities,” he added. The total number of positive Covid-19 cases in the state reached 403 on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/movement-of-persons-vehicles-in-non-essential-services-to-be-stopped-at-inter-dist-boundaries-bihar-additional-chief-secy/story-gVCVnA24j2ZxzO9JOE0nFM.html
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh lags behind Panchkula, Mohali in Covid-19 testing||Despite high number of cases, Chandigarh’s testing has not been vigorous, so much so that it couldn’t match even Panchkula and Mohali.Chandigarh has reported 68 cases and tested only 1,013 people, while Mohali with 73 infections tested 1,411. Panchkula has only 18 cases but has tested 1,525 persons, highest in the tricity. Chandigarh has an estimated population of 14 lakh, Panchkula 6.6 lakh and Mohali 10 lakh.The very first case in the tricity was reported in Chandigarh on March 18.UT health secretary Arun Kumar Gupta said there was no criteria to gauge “how many are enough when it comes to testing”. “We have to follow the guidelines of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for testing. More testing in disregard of the guidelines is not an achievement,” he said.In Chandigarh, testing is mainly being done at three centres. Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), which has a daily testing capacity of 200 people, and administration’s exclusive health facility GMCH-32 has a capacity to conduct 100 tests and Institute of Microbial Technology (IMTECH) can do 50 tests daily. Panchkula and Mohali did not have their own testing facility and samples taken there are being sent for to PGIMER and IMTECH. These two institutes are meant for the tests of samples sent by the UT as well. Nodal officer for Covid-19, Mohali, and civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh, said right from day one, the administration had gone for extensive sampling. “It has helped us in finding affected persons. It has proved fruitful, we will be more aggressive in future,” he added.Former president of Chandigarh’s Indian Medical Association Dr RS Bedi said, “We (in Chandigarh) are at a stage where we have to chase the virus now. Chandigarh is not a big city and we can easily go for aggressive testing. We should go for random sampling even beyond the affected zones.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-lags-behind-panchkula-mohali-in-covid-19-testing/story-bBGM3EUfjWYHjrlE6cUhVM.html
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||How Bapu Dham Colony became Chandigarh’s first major hotspot||With 23 Covid positive cases and counting, Bapu Dham, a rehabilitated slum colony with high population density, has emerged as the city’s first major hotspot registering almost one-third of the total positive cases to date.Named after Mahatma Gandhi, the colony came up in the mid-70s to rehabilitate a former slum of Sector 26. Later, small plots, not bigger than one-and-a-half marlas, were allotted to the residents in three different phases.Dalip Sharma, the MC councillor representing Bapu Dham, said that more than 50,000 people lived here in close proximity in nearly 2,500 multi-storeyed small houses. And this is what makes it susceptible to the spread of a highly contagious disease like the Covid-19.TRACING PATIENT 1It all started on April 24 after an operation theatre attendant at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Narender Kumar, of house number 533 here, was found to be infected.Kumar went on to infect five members of his family, and over a dozen people in the nearby house number 535, besides multiple people in house numbers 528, 539 and 585—all primary and secondary contacts of Kumar.Authorities believe that many of those infected were part of his marriage anniversary party. The UT administration had hoped the virus doesn’t spread further, but every new case has started a chain reaction of it’s own. Of the three fresh Covid cases reported in the colony on Wednesday, two are labourers living in a single room. They have four other persons as roommates and 26 community contacts. All of them live in the same building.The third person who tested positive on Wednesday lives in a separate room, in a different house. He is a plumber and has three family and 72 community contacts living in the same building. All are under observation for symptoms.100 HOUSES SEALEDApproximately 100 houses (numbers 517 to 614) have been completely sealed while movement has been restricted in the remaining part of the colony that is under strict vigil of both the police and the paramilitary staff.Kavita Kumari, a resident of house number 555, said no essential commodities had been supplied in the last two days, but her concern is the fate of the poor in the locality: “There are migrant labourers who have absolutely no ration or food available, and no way to get it either.”Rani, a resident of house number 520, said her primary concern was that the police should speak politely with the residents. She said there were many houses in the sealed locality struggling to get essentials like flour and oil. “We were snubbed for asking for ration. We do understand that the situation is difficult, but surviving is difficult without essentials especially when most families have small kids.”BAPU DHAM POLICE POST IN-CHARGE TRANSFERREDThe Chandigarh Police on Wednesday ordered the transfer of sub-inspector (SI) Gurmeet Singh, the former police post in-charge at Bapu Dham Colony, for lapses in duty.In an order issued by superintendent of police (SP) Manoj Kumar Meena, the SI was transferred to the Police Lines and sub-inspector Rohitash Kumar Yadav was made the new in-charge of the post with immediate effect.The reshuffle comes after it came to light that Patient 1 Narender Kumar had organised a rooftop party at his house in the colony and invited many people. However, the Sector 26 station house officer (SHO), police post in-charge and beat officials had said they were completely unaware of the event.A written explanation has been sought from Sector 26 SHO Narinder Patial. If found guilty, sources said he could be transferred, too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/how-bapu-dham-colony-became-chandigarh-s-first-major-hotspot/story-NKWgbe5Vgk4hJ3OdvmQPjM.html
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||Priest in Haryana watched mother’s funeral online, weeks later church webcasts his burial for kin in Tamil Nadu||The lockdown to prevent the spread of coronavirus has not only transformed the way people live, but the way they die as well.A month back when a 46-year-old catholic priest was saying the prayers online at St Antony’s Church in Habri village of Kaithal district, Haryana, more than 2,600 km away somewhere in Tamil Nadu his 75-year-old long-time ailing mother passed away.The hapless priest had to contend with watching his mother’s funeral online, unable to get a glimpse of her for the last time.On Tuesday late evening, however, a cardiac arrest snatched away the life of the priest. And this time, his father and brother, sitting in Vallavilai village of Kanyakumari district, Tamil Nadu, had no choice but to watch the priest’s funeral online that took place at 1pm on Wednesday at the Sector 25 cemetery in the presence of eight catholic priests.Father Michael Boniface of the Simla-Chandigarh Diocese, who was the in-charge of St Antony’s Church, suffered a cardiac arrest on Tuesday evening and was declared brought dead on reaching a private hospital in Kurukshetra.The priest had lost his mother on March 31; she had been bedridden for almost a year after suffering a paralytic attack. Watching her funeral online, the priest had been unaware that his journey, too, will be witnessed by the remaining family in a similar way.Speaking to the Hindustan Times, the priest’s brother Simon Boniface, who is in Tamil Nadu, said it was a huge irony: “My brother was completely shattered by the death of our mother, but always put on a brave face. Due to the lockdown, we could not even attend his final journey and had to watch it online. It was painful.”In his obituary message, Bishop of Simla-Chandigarh Diocese reverend Ignatius Mascarenhas said, “His demise is a great loss for the Diocese. Such a young and vibrant priest is gone to eternity. The Diocese is grateful to the family members, especially to his younger brother, who is at home and who cannot come due to the Covid-19 lockdown in the country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/priest-in-haryana-watched-mother-s-funeral-online-weeks-later-church-webcasts-his-burial-for-kin-in-tamil-nadu/story-ndfxKKyTXZ3zvWq6sH5wUI.html
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||Nine fresh cases take Chandigarh count to 68||For the fifth straight day, there was no respite in the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh. On Wednesday, nine cases were reported, taking the Union Territory (UT) count to 68. In last five days, 40 infections have been detected in the city which account for 58% of the total cases.With this spike, the test positivity rate (TPR) of city has surpassed the national rate. The national TPR stands at 4.12% as of 5pm on Wednesday whileChandigarh’s is 6.7%. The TPR is ratio of positive cases to the number of tests conducted.The patients include seven community contacts of the 30-year-old employee of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, who lives in Bapu Dham Colony, an 82-year-old woman from Sector 38 and a healthcare worker of GMCH-32, who live in the same locality.Officials said among those carrying the infection are four women aged 19, 40, 51 and 65, all from a household in the congested Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26. Two men aged 55 and 60 are from another household and a 20-year-old from the same colony.A 79-year-old woman of Sector 38, Chandigarh, has also tested positive for coronavirus. The patient was taken in critical condition to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, on April 27 where she was found positive for Covid-19. Her source of infection is not yet known. Also, a 38-year-old male staffer of GMCH-32 who lives in Sector 32-C has been tested positive.The source of the transmission is being cited a GMCH employee, who infected five of his family members, seven workplace contacts and 17 other community contacts.Bapu Dham Colony and Sector 30 account for more than half the Covid-19 cases in the city, so far.An estimated 60,000 people stay in Bapu Dham Colony that is spread over an area of 1 square km. There are about 2,500 small concrete houses occupied by low-income group residents.Meanwhile, neighbouring Mohali recorded eight cases on Wednesday and five of them are Hazur Sahib pilgrims, while three are from district’s hotspot Jawaharpur. No case was reported from Panchkula on Wednesday, which is the ninth clean day in a row.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nine-fresh-cases-take-chandigarh-count-to-68/story-HtrZr6hWmmMKWRO26v6d4I.html
30-04-2020||Mumbai||Rishi Kapoor admitted to city hospital||Veteran actor Rishi Kapoor was admitted to Sir HN Reliance Foundation Hospital in Girgaon, Mumbai on Wednesday morning. His family took him to the hospital after he complained about difficulty in breathing .His brother and actor Randhir Kapoor said he was “better” now. “I hope he gets well soon. We are praying for the best. He has been hospitalised this morning by his family due to a little breathing problem. I have not had the chance to see him because the hospital is not allowing anyone inside. Only his wife and son are there with him,” he said.The actor underwent treatment in New York, United States after being diagnosed with cancer in 2018. During his stay there, an array of Bollywood actors namely Alia Bhatt, Priyanka Chopra, Aamir Khan, Shah Rukh Khan, Deepika Padukone, among others, visited him.After a bone marrow treatment and spending about a year in New York, he returned to India in September 2019. The veteran actor was last seen in The Body (2019).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rishi-kapoor-admitted-to-city-hospital/story-jozZb6tkjgjhJhOsbRZ3OM.html
30-04-2020||Lucknow||54,000 abandoned cows adopted in UP under the CM Destitute Cow Participation Scheme||Around 54,000 abandoned cows were lucky enough to get new homes in Uttar Pradesh with more than 26,500 farmers having come forward to adopt them under the Chief Minister Destitute Cow Participation Scheme during the last financial year that ended on March 31.Male bovines were not that lucky. As there were few takers for them, they were forced to make do with the government-run (some of them poorly managed) cow shelters where nearly 5 lakh abandoned cattle have been housed all over the state for around a year and a half.“As many as 26,586 farmers adopted 53,606 abandoned cows from the makeshift cattle shelters set up in all 75 districts in the state till March 31,” said principal secretary, animal husbandry, Bhuvnesh Kumar, adding, “The government provides a finance assistance of Rs 900 per cattle per month to all such farmers under the Chief Minister Destitute Cow Participation Scheme.”According to Kumar, each such cattlehead was ear-tagged before being given for adoption for subsequent follow-up and monitoring.The district-wise data on adoption shows that cows were adopted in all 75 districts, though in varying numbers. Lalitpur, where 4,747 cows were adopted by 1,686 farmers topped the chart followed by Hamirpur where 2,875 cows were adopted by 1,477 farmers. Hardoi and Lucknow came third and fourth with adoption of 2,850 and 2,537 cows respectively.Rampur district figured at the bottom with adoption of merely 11 cows by six farmers. Gorakhpur and JP Nagar where 98 and 103 cows were adopted by 42 and 66 farmers respectively were on the second and third position from the bottom respectively.However, farmers mostly picked only female bovines for adoption and they were further selective about their choice. “Farmers mostly pick heifers (young cows that have not yet had a calf), milch cows or pregnant cows,” said director, animal husbandry, UB Singh.Pointing out the reason why the target of adoption of one lakh cattle could achieve only the halfway mark, Singh said, “The number of male bovines at the cow shelters far exceeded the female bovines on the one hand and farmers were selective in choosing.” After the cow shelters started overflowing, the Yogi Adityanath government launched the Chief Minister Destitute Cows Participation Scheme in August last year offering willing farmers to take stray of their choice against an affidavit that they would look after them properly at home.The government ordered catching of stray cattle and putting them in cow shelters early in 2019 after the ban on illegal slaughter houses spiked the population of stray cattle that started destroying crops in villages and causing accidents in cities, leading to a public resentment and agitations in various parts of the state. Singh said adoption of cows was a big service. “We appeal to people to volunteer to take cattle from the cow shelters and take care of them at home. The government already gives Rs 30 per animal per day for fodder,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/54-000-abandoned-cows-adopted-in-up-under-the-cm-destitute-cow-participation-scheme/story-zzdWRJvV3Or3vs9bwQL0UM.html
30-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 doubling rate in Mumbai rises to 10 days; mortality rate dips to 3.9%||Amid the increasing number of coronavirus cases in the city, Mumbaiites have something to cheer about. A data by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday has revealed that the doubling rate of the coronavirus outbreak in the city has increased to 10 days from the 8.3 days recorded last week. The doubling rate is the amount of time or the number of days required for the coronavirus cases to double. The city’s Covid-19 fatality rate too has decreased to 3.9% on April 26 from the earlier 6.3% recorded on April 11. This means that there are now four deaths recorded for every 100 cases, as opposed to the earlier six deaths for the same number of cases. The corporation has claimed that the fatality rate in the city has now inched closer to the national average of 3.1% and is better than that of the state, which is at 4.3%.However, there are nine wards in the city that have shown a faster the doubling rate. These wards are R Central ward (Borivli), R North ward (Dahisar), F South ward (Parel), M East ward (Mankhurd), T ward (Mulund), C ward (Kalbadevi and Marine Lines), H East ward (Bandra and Khar), D ward (Malabar Hill and Walkeshwar) and M West ward (Chembur and Tilak Nagar).Despite the decrease in the doubling time, majority of these wards until Wednesday have reported fewer cases as compared to the remaining 15 wards in the city. The civic body also said that 26 coronavirus deaths were reported in the city on Wednesday, even as 475 new cases were confirmed. Mumbai now has 6,644 confirmed cases of coronavirus, while the death toll has escalated to 270. Of the 26 deaths reported on Wednesday, 16 patients had co-morbidities. Thirteen patients who died were above 60 years , while 12 were between 40 and 60 years, and one was an 80-year-old. According to BMC, 193 patients have been recovered and discharged on Wednesday. Of these 475, 170 had been tested in private labs. The G North ward, which is among the worst-hit in the city, reported new cases on Wednesday. With 14 cases registered on Wednesday, Dharavi now has 344 coronavirus patients, while the death toll in the area is now at 18. Mahim reported three new cases, taking the total number of cases in the area to 33. Dadar did not report any new case on Wednesday. Mayor visits Covid-19 hospitalsMeanwhile, mayor Kishori Pednekar on Wednesday visited Cooper and Seven Hills Hospitals, where coronavirus patients are being treated, to review the work carried out by civic officials.BMC official dies of coronavirusAn an inspector from BMC’s assessment department, Madhukar Hariyan, who was working at a coronavirus hotspot in Dharavi died on Wednesday. The BMC posted a tweet on its official Twitter handle, “Our very own, Shri Madhukar Hariyan (Inspector, Assessment Dept, BMC) passed away today. He had devoted himself in the service of Mumbaikars & the needy. May his soul rest in peace. Our thoughts & prayers are with the Hariyan family. He had tested Covid-19 positive.” Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of G North ward, took to social media on Wednesday night to convey his condolences. “Now how to motivate the team @mybmcWardGN for #MissionDharavi? RIP #CoronaWarrior Madhur Hariyan. Sacrifice will not be forgotten. We pledge to work further, “ his tweet read.According to a senior civic official, Hariyan was among the officials deployed in Dharavi to distribute food packets to residents at containment zones. The official said, “He developed symptoms on April 23 but never got admitted to any hospital and did not even complain about the symptoms. He kept taking medicines from a local practitioner. On Wednesday, he died on the way while he was being taken to the Kasturba hospital.” 3 more BEST employees test positiveMeanwhile, three more Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) bus drivers and one conductor were tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases in the undertaking to 17. The BEST administration on Wednesday had issued a set of directives to around 750 of its staffers who are above 55 years and suffer from comorbidities such as high blood pressure and diabetes and asked them not to resume duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/doubling-rate-in-mumbai-rises-to-10-days-mortality-rate-dips-to-3-9/story-RlGzwW99RqjUnDhknwDdKJ.html
30-04-2020||Mumbai||‘Mission Dharavi tough, not impossible’||From the first case on April 1 to 344 cases 29 days later, Dharavi, India’s largest slum, has emerged as a major hotspot of Covid-19 in the city, with cases rising daily. In such a grim situation, how do you contain the spread, given the space constraint, stigma and lack of awareness, sanitation and even essentials? The civic body’s answer – Mission Dharavi, a daily fight involving 2,500 health care and sanitation workers. Although the mission is still on, and at a crucial stage considering the rise, the civic body is confident of a positive outcome.THE NUMBERSThe Dharavi slum is spread over 2.4 sqkm, has 850,000 residents and a population density of 354,167 per square kilometre, making it one of the more cramped spaces in Mumbai, itself the world’s fifth most densely populated city. It is characterised by difficult-to-manage makeshift shanties, or double-storey standalone tin and concrete shanties. There are only a few multi-storey slum rehabilitation authority (SRA) buildings, which are gated. There are 225 public community toilets in this slum, used by thousands of people daily, through the day. Residents are daily wage workers, or run small businesses from their homes.Dharavi jumped to 330 positive cases in a span of 28 days since the first case and first death were reported on April 1. Since then, it took 17 days for this slum pocket to record the first 100 cases, six days to record the next 100, and only five days to record 100 more. On April 17, Dharavi recorded a total of 101 Covid-19 positive cases. This figure doubled by April 23, when Dharavi recorded 214 cases. On April 28, the figure of total Covid-19 positive cases touched 330. Its first patient was cured and discharged on April 11.WHAT IS BEING DONEKiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of Dadar West ward in south Mumbai, BMC’s administrative unit which covers Dharavi, launched the mission on April 18, the day after the slum pocket recorded its first 100 cases. It included running fever camps in containment zones, providing door-to-door groceries, and even cooked food to residents, so they had no reason to leave their homes. Those using community toilets were moved to institutional quarantine centres. The BMC’s newly started toll-free helpline for requesting food, shelter, and transport during the lockdown due to Covid-19: 1800221292, too, is headquartered at the G/North ward. Following requests to this helpline from Dharavi, the BMC also delivered milk, medicines, and biscuits on demand to keep people indoors.Even earlier, on April 9, when Dharavi had 17 positive cases, Dighavkar had issued a circular stopping sale of fruits and vegetables on footpaths of nine roads in Dharavi, where these cases were found. This was later expanded to all containment zones in Dharavi.HOW IT IS BEING MANAGEDThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has sent 125,000 people in over 48 containment zones, screened over 62,500 people via door-to-door surveys, fever camps, and medical clinics of private doctors. It has conducted 1,530 tests so far. Community toilets are being sanitized daily.Municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi said, “The most challenging aspect for Dharavi is delivering food packets home, as the population is very large. Community toilets, small homes and high population density are major challenges.”Dighavkar said, “The most challenging aspect of containing the outbreak in Dharavi is dialogue with residents. It is proving difficult due to the sheer number of people we have to communicate with. Moreover, a small room admeasuring 10x15 sqft is occupied by 8-9 people. Social distancing is impossible. Challenge is to quarantine maximum number of people. Convincing them to move to quarantine zones is yet another challenge. Chances of infection increase with community toilets.”The high-risk contacts of index patients such as his family members and immediate neighbours are moved to institutional quarantine facilities. More than 1,850 high-risk contacts have been institutionally quarantined so far. There are 2300 beds available in and around Dharavi area alone to quarantine high-risk contacts. Municipal schools have been converted into quarantine facilities, as has the Rajeev Gandhi sports complex, spread over 12,000 sq m.Dighavkar said BMC delivers over 19,000 food packets daily, with the help of its staff and police personnel, since many residents of Dharavi are hand-to-mouth earners. This food is funded by NGOs and charity trusts, and handed over to BMC for distribution.Dighavkar said, “We are on the right track, even though the number 330 looks overwhelming. Of the 330 cases, 61% are among people the BMC has already quarantined, or screened.”Dadar West ward’s data shows out of the 330 cases recorded as of April 28, 104 were from persons already in institutional quarantine, and 98 were discovered from among people screened by the civic body, totaling 61.2%. The remaining 128 cases have directly reported themselves. Moreover, Dharavi’s percentage positivity (number of positive persons emerging from the total number of tested persons) stands at 21.5% as of Tuesday, much higher than Mumbai’s positivity ratio, which fluctuates between 7% and 8%.The BMC has also permitted opening up the 350 private clinics that operate from Dharavi for early detection of cases.The civic body claimed that around 60% of its cases are from five red zones: Kalyanwadi, Mukund Nagar, Social Nagar, Muslim Nagar and Madina Nagar. Identified and flagged as red zones on April 10, when the total positive cases in Dharavi stood at 28. This was also when BMC started door-to-door screening of patients, and deployed 10 teams of 4-5 people each, to do so.RESIDENTS’ SUPPORTThe first case in Dharavi, discovered on April 1, was also the first death. The 56-year-old male who had no travel or contact history had developed symptoms on March 23 and had visited his local doctor. He was prescribed medicines for cough and sent home. Six days later he developed difficulty in breathing and was admitted to Sion hospital, where his swab was collected for testing. His positive result was finalised on April 1, but he died soon after the same day. The second and third case was reported on April 2, who were a doctor from a nearby private hospital living in Dharavi, and a civic sanitation worker living in Worli, who cleaned in Dharavi. Incidentally, Worli falls in the administrative ward with the most number of cases recorded in Mumbai. The fourth case was recorded on April 4, and the fifth on April 5. While April 6 and April 11 recorded no new cases, the days right after these ones brought new challenges for the local administration, giving then no time to prepare. Everyday since, cases multiplied rapidly.In Mumbai the wards with the lowest number of cases such as Mulund in the eastern suburbs, Marine Lines in the island city and Borivli in the western suburbs had many days in between the positive cases reported in their area, and hence had more time on their hands to put containment and quarantine measures in place, isolate index patients and break the chain of spread of the virus.However, what is working for Dharavi is self-discipline of its residents. Pardeshi said, “Residents of Dharavi are strictly following all lockdown rules. No one is leaving their homes. We took the drone over Dharavi and saw the images. All streets were empty, no one was walking around. This is unlike some other areas in Mumbai, such as the E ward (Byculla in south Mumbai), where people venture out of their homes despite the situation. This must be very difficult for them as their homes are small. But they are aware of the consequences.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mission-dharavi-tough-not-impossible/story-5VoHZ2IWQ2XlzDPsGeG93K.html
30-04-2020||Mumbai||Maha sees worst 24-hour toll of 32; tally now 9,915||The state on Wednesday recorded 597 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 9,915, even as the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) projected that cases in Maharashtra’s five districts —Mumbai city, Mumbai suburban, Pune, Palghar and Thane — could collectively cross 37,000 by May 15. Of the new infections, Mumbai recorded 475 of them, taking its tally to 6,644. The state recorded its highest single-day toll with 32 deaths, including 26 in Mumbai, taking the total fatalities to 432. The state also recorded its highest number of recoveries in a day with 205 discharged on Wednesday, the health department said.The rising number of cases would strain the healthcare infrastructure, including ventilators, beds with oxygen, and ICU beds in the state. The Centre has also projected that Mumbai could fall short of isolation beds with oxygen supply, while Pune and Mumbai could fall short of ventilators by May 11.Mumbai, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) that includes Palghar and Thane districts, and Pune have the maximum number of cases in Maharashtra. Thane and Palghar districts have 757 and 294 cases respectively. Pune district, meanwhile, has recorded 1,192 coronavirus cases.According to the projection of the ministry, Covid-19 cases in Mumbai (city and suburban districts) will reach 28,859 by May 15, while Pune, Thane and Palghar will touch 3,949, 4,181 and 295, respectively. The doubling rate for Mumbai’s projection, taken as the input value for the mathematical model, was 7.7 days. While for Pune, it was 9.7 days, for Thane it was 7.4 days and for Palghar, it was 20 days.Mumbai, which has the highest number of Covid-19 patients, could fall short of isolation beds with oxygen supply by May 11, the projection said. With the spike in cases, Mumbai would be short of 421 ventilators and Pune will be short of 40 ventilators by May 11. Besides, Mumbai will be short of 20,462 isolation beds with oxygen.The state health department, however, dismissed the projection and said that multiple mathematical models have given various projections and said that it is basing its plans on a “realistic” assessment.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that the state may plan to shift asymptomatic patients in Mumbai into home quarantine as per the revised guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). “It is being said that beds aren’t available in Mumbai; there have been such complaints. As per the new guidelines of the ICMR, asymptomatic patients can be kept in home quarantine. In Mumbai, 83% of patients are asymptomatic; it may be possible to shift some of them who are not that severe into home quarantine. That way, beds would be made available.He added that the doubling rate in Mumbai has improved from seven days to 10 days now. “The doubling rate in Mumbai has gone to 10 days, which is better than India’s doubling rate that stands at 9 days now. The mortality rate has also reduced. Everybody is focused on Mumbai,” he said.Tope said that institutional quarantine is being ramped up in Mumbai. He assured that the state health department and the civic body is prepared for any level of spike. “We have taken the decision to use big grounds to set up beds for institutional quarantine. Oxygen line will be kept beside the beds. No matter how big the spike in Mumbai, we are preparing accordingly…As we say, hope for the best and prepare the worst,” he said.“There are many projection models and no model is perfect. We are making sufficient arrangements based on our analytical assessment. We have adequate infrastructure available with us in various districts to deal with the cases. We are planning on a realistic level. We are seeing the growth rate of the cases in Mumbai and Pune and planning in accordance,” said Anup Kumar Yadav, commissioner (family welfare) and director, National Health Mission, Maharashtra.The Ministry of Home Affairs on Wednesday said stranded migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students will be allowed to move with conditions during lockdown. The Maharashtra government is preparing guidelines to transport the stranded migrants and other people in the state.Nodal authorities will be appointed to register the stranded persons. Since the transfer of people will be done by road, the state transport department has kept around 10,000 ST buses ready for the transfer, an official said. Around 20 to 22 people can be seated in one bus, keeping social distancing norms in mind. Around 1.5 lakh people can be transported through the ST buses. The state is also in talks with private bus operators to provide buses.Meanwhile, Tope took stock of the measures taken in Malegaon in Nashik district as the cases in the area have soared in the past few days, making it another hotspot in the state. According to Tope, the 171 Covid-19 patients in Malegaon are asymptomatic and none of them are critical. “The situation is Malegaon is in control. The spread is in a cluster. We have appointed 100 people, including doctors, nurses and paramedical staff for the city. The close contacts will be given hydroxychloroquine as per the guidelines of the ICMR,” Tope said. The state home department deployed the State Reserve Police Force in Satranjipur of Nagpur city, which alone has recorded 84 Covid-19 cases.Maharashtra so far has tested 1,37,159 samples, of which 1,26,376 were negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-sees-worst-24-hour-toll-of-32-tally-now-9-915/story-l8MEIr7n4YRTMu8IHn4LBO.html
30-04-2020||Lucknow||Muslims take out Hindu man’s funeral procession in Meerut||Muslims set an example of communal harmony in Shahpeer Gate area of old Meerut when they carried out the funeral procession of their Hindu neighbour who died of a prolonged illness on Tuesday. Ramesh Mathur, 65, a caretaker of ‘Kayasth Dharamshala’ (lodge) in Shahpeer Gate area died of a disease he was suffering from a long time. Ramesh’s eldest son Komal Mathur was stuck up in Delhi due to lockdown while he lived in lodge with his other son Chandramouli Mathur. Ramesh’s relatives could not come due to lockdown and that’s when his Muslim neighbours stepped in. “None of Ramesh’s relatives could come due to lockdown. His elder son was stuck up in Delhi and his younger son, Chandramouli, couldn’t carry out the funeral arrangements and procession alone. Since we have been neighbours for long we decided to help arrange for final rites,” said Hifazzur Rehman, Ramesh’s neighbor. The Muslim neighbours first helped the son of the deceased prepare the bier and later took part in the funeral procession while maintaining social distancing.“Here we are living and helping each other since many years. Even our ancestors were living here with unity and harmony since 100 years,” said another neighbour Kriti Bhushan. “Muslim men brought mortal remains of a Hindu for cremation and made sure that last rites were performed as per Hindu traditions,” said Ramesh Sharma, the priest at Surajkund cremation ground. This is the second occasion when Muslims took out the funeral procession of a Hindu man after his relatives failed to reach for the last rites. On March 28 after the death of Ravi Shankar, 40, who died due to cancer in Anand Vihar colony of Bulandshahr, Muslims came forward and helped family with last rites. In fact, they not only participated in the funeral procession but also chanted ‘Ram Naam Satya Hai’ (Lord’s name is eternal) in keeping with the Hindu tradition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/muslims-take-out-hindu-man-s-funeral-procession-in-meerut/story-hLPqL3aDrbD1cvfT4AkWJM.html
30-04-2020||Lucknow||Allahabad high court seeks UP govt’s reply on removal of DG family welfare||The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court on Wednesday sought a reply from the state government within three weeks on a plea challenging the removal of Dr Badri Vishal, the then director general family welfare, UP, from the post.Justice Vivek Chaudhary passed the order on a writ petition filed by Dr Badri Vishal, challenging a government order dated April19 through which the charge of DG family welfare had been taken from him and he was put on the waitlist. The petitioner’s counsel Nutan Thakur submitted that the government had no valid reason to discharge the petitioner during the Covid-19 outbreak. She sought reinstatement of the petitioner to the post.Opposing the plea, the state counsel contended that it was in a dire medical emergency in the state that the charge was taken from the petitioner. He requested for and was granted three weeks’ time to file a counter-affidavit (reply) to bring the relevant facts on record. Thereafter, a week’s time was granted to the petitioner to file a rejoinder affidavit.The court directed to list the case within two weeks of the end of the lockdown and resumption of regular functioning of this court in Lucknow.MANOJ KUMAR SINGH||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/allahabad-high-court-seeks-up-govt-s-reply-on-removal-of-dg-family-welfare/story-x8sXF2Zw4pYt8bUY0i9isM.html
30-04-2020||Lucknow||Students injured as bus collides with truck near Ayodhya||Eleven students, along with the truck driver and a cop, were injured after an Uttar Pradesh State Road transport Corporation (UPSRTC) bus carrying 25 students from Prayagraj to Kushinagar collided with a truck when it reached Ayodhya in the wee hours on Wednesday. While the injured rushed to a nearby hospital, the remaining students were sent to Kushinagar in another roadways bus.“The injured students will also be escorted home soon after their treatment,” officials said.UPSRTC MD Raj Shekhar said the bus collided with a truck near Bilari village on Prayagraj-Ayodhya Highway reportedly after the truck driver suddenly applied brakes at around 4 am. Locals and policemen rushed to the scene and admitted the injured students to nearby community health centre where the driver and two students were referred to the district hospital.DM Ayodhya and police officials visited the injured students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/students-injured-as-bus-collides-with-truck-near-ayodhya/story-5Y5IRXfPfHFLrrF6TkS17I.html
30-04-2020||Lucknow||Agra records above 400 cases in a month’s time||The Taj city has registered an alarming increase in COVID-19 cases in about a month’s time. The city which had only 12 positive tested COVID-19 cases by March end, had reported 425 cases till Wednesday. Of these 425, 11 patients admitted in isolation ward of the city hospital have died, officials said.“The number of COVID-19 positive tested cases as on Wednesday is 425. We are in control as most of these cases are from hotspot areas already under our vigil and sealed from rest of city. Beside 13 more were discharged after getting well and in all 69 of those who tested positive have been cured and discharged from isolation wards,” said district magistrate of Agra Prabhu N Singh.Agra is ranked 11th among most affected districts nationally. Agra had five positive cases on March 2. Back then administration took it as challenge and adopted a proactive approach. It reached 1.96 lakh houses and all suspects were screened.The numbers rose in March when 12 positive tested cases were reported but 8 were discharged.However, the numbers increased sharply after the Tablighi Jamaat members were spotted. The positive contacts at a city hospital in April too contributed in a big way. “The list of 425 positive cases at present includes doctors, health workers, cops, vegetable vendors, pregnant women, pharma dealers,” officials said. The UP government has appointed Alok Kumar as nodal officer in Agra to look after measures taken to control the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/agra-records-above-400-cases-in-a-month-s-time/story-1959dGgHtpi7NOEDd8gizJ.html
30-04-2020||City||Maharashtra health minister says Mumbai’s first plasma therapy experiment successful||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday has said that the first plasma therapy experiment in the city conducted at Lilavati Hospital has been successful. With the experiment’s success on Wednesday, the state hopes that the therapy will prove useful in treating coronavirus patients by strengthening their immune system.“Municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi has informed me about the successful experiment at Lilavati. Another such experiment is being conducted at BYL Nair Hospital, which is a specialised hospital for Covid-19 patients. We are confident that the trial at Nair Hospital too, would be successful,” state health minister Rajesh Tope said.The health minister had added that if all the guidelines pertaining to the donor and recipient are followed and approved by the ethics committee, the success rate of the treatment is very satisfactory. Tope also said that the state government has been planning to use the therapy effectively in Pune, where the number of patients is very high. After the Centre’s nod, the state has begun the plasma therapy experiments at government as well as private hospitals. The Union health ministry and the state health department had earlier made an appeal to recovered Covid-19 patients to come forward and donate their blood for collection of convalescent plasma for transfusion into other positive patients. The convalescent plasma therapy uses antibodies from the blood of recovered patients to treat others. This could also help in immunising the front-line workers, including doctors, family members of the patients and their high-risk contacts to restrict the spread. The Union health ministry had also however, on Tuesday stated that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has not given a clearance for its usage as a prescribed treatment for the infection. The ministry also said that the therapy is at an experimental stage and is only one of the many ways of treatment. Though the state has been conducting experiments, the plasma therapy trials require the Drug Controller of India and ICMR’s nod, said state officials. “The tests are being conducted at municipal and governmental levels as well as by private hospitals and the results are varying. Though it can prove beneficial to some patients, it has some shortcomings too,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-health-minister-says-mumbai-s-first-plasma-therapy-experiment-successful/story-vuX3JAqBgTGERkVMa2gkBO.html
30-04-2020||Lucknow||Health workers, police attacked in Kanpur; CM for invoking NSA||A group of 20-30 people attacked health workers and policemen, pelting them with stones on Nala Road in Kanpur’s Bajaria locality, a Covid-19 hotspot, on Wednesday when nine members of a family who had been in close contact with a coronavirus positive patient were being taken to a quarantine facility, the police said.The incident led to chief minister Yogi Adityanath asking the police to invoke provisions of the Gangsters Act and the National Security Act (NSA) besides the Indian Penal Code, the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act against the attackers.Kanpur’s senior superintendent of police Anant Deo also said the police would invoke NSA. Kanpur’s superintendent of police, West, Anil Kumar said five people were arrested and 10 others detained. The police were ascertaining their roles in attacking the corona warriors and damaging public property, Kumar said.“Security has been beefed up with additional deployment of police personnel and Provincial Armed Constabulary. The situation is under control,” said district magistrate Brahmdeo Ram Tiwari.For his part, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said, “I want to make it clear to the police to identify those who attacked the police and medical teams in Kanpur. Besides acting against them under provisions of the Epidemic Act, Disaster Management Act and IPC, the Gangster Act and the National Security Act should also be invoked because these people are working as coronavirus carriers and disturbing order in the society. We cannot tolerate this.”“A handful of people are trying to disturb order when health workers, sanitation staff and doorstep delivery personnel are striving to protect 23 crore people of the state. We have given clear orders and there should be no hesitation in acting against those responsible for doing so,” he said.(WITH PTI INPUTS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/health-workers-police-attacked-in-kanpur-cm-for-invoking-nsa/story-jXfKMLnVspX5zv6T9f4i4M.html
30-04-2020||Lucknow||Routine immunisation programme set for a launch in UP||Even as Sars-Cov-2 continues to spread its tentacles in the state, the Uttar Pradesh health and family welfare department has decided to launch routine immunization programme to protect children and mothers from various diseases.Due to the nationwide lockdown announced on March 25 to fight the pandemic, the routine immunization programme across the state came to a standstill. The health department staff, including doctors, paramedics and frontline workers- accredited social health activist (ASHA) and auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) --were deputed in the drive launched by the state government to check the spread of coronavirus, said a health department officer.Each year the health department also launches immunization drive in rural and urban areas of the 38 districts in eastern UP and terai region under the Dastak programme to vaccinate children against Japanese Encephalitis and Acute Encephalitis Syndrome.The health department launched the first phase of the immunization drive for protection from Japanese Encephalitis and Acute Encephalitis Syndrome in February, before the onset of the pandemic, said secretary health and family welfare, V Hekali Zhimomi. Under the intensive vaccination programme organized in 38 districts, the department had vaccinated 1.14 crore children, she said.The second round of the immunization and awareness programme is organized in June – July before during the monsoon when JE/ AES outbreak is reported in the 38 districts. The health department would prepare a work plan for immunization of the left over children as well awareness before the onset of the monsoon, she said. Principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said the health department had decided to launch home based new borne care (HBNC) and village health nutrition day (VHND) programme to check maternal and infant mortality rate in the state. The department had directed all the district magistrates and chief medical officers (CMOs) to launch the HBNC and VHND programme in districts from next week, he said.The health department has divided the 75 districts into three categories. The programme will remain suspended in 18 districts in which 20 or more than 20 Covid positive cases have been reported. In 40 districts in which less than 20 cases have been reported, the immunization programme will not be organized in the localities and villages in which positive cases have been detected. The programme would be organized in the remaining areas of the districts, he said.The immunization programme will be organized across the 17 districts in which no case has been reported since the spread of the Covid pandemic in the state. If any case was reported in the district, then the CMO would revise the immunization drive according to the guideline issued by the department, he said.During the immunization programme, the accredited social health activist (ASHA) will follow the guidelines for protection from Covid. If during the immunization programme she detected symptom in the child or mother she would immediately alert the CMO, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/routine-immunisation-programme-set-for-a-launch-in-up/story-RKRseAbrSIzh215mlO1FxI.html
30-04-2020||Lucknow||To protect corona warriors, UP set to bring ‘stricter’ ordinance||The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday decided to bring an ordinance with provisions stricter than the central law to protect corona warriors against attacks or misbehavior.The new law -- Uttar Pradesh Epidemic Disease Control Ordinance-2020 – has a broad scope of coverage and strict provisions to protect corona warriors, including medical officers, health workers, para-medical staff, policemen, sanitation workers etc, said a senior government officer, who did not want to be named.Speaking on the issue, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said: “Besides health teams and sanitation workers, government employees and representatives of various organisations are fighting against Covid-19. However, some people are working as corona carriers and attacking the medical teams and security personnel.This is a serious crime and cannot be tolerated. Keeping this in view, we have decided to make major amendments to the Epidemic Act-1897. The union government has recently amended the Epidemic Act-1897 to provide for imprisonment and penalty against attack on or misbehavior with medical and health teams. Besides this, we are also making provision for up to seven years’ imprisonment and up to Rs 5 lakh penalty for any attack on security personnel, sanitation workers and corona warriors.”The ordinance will provide zero tolerance towards crime against corona warriors and stringent punishment to those breaking lockdown, running away from quarantine centres or isolation wards or spitting to spread coronavirus, he said.Besides imprisonment of up to seven years, the new law is likely to provide for penalty of up to Rs 5 lakh on the offenders.“We are finalising the provisions to be incorporated in the draft ordinance to be placed before the state cabinet for approval soon. The ordinance will have stricter provisions,” the officer said when asked about how the state’s law would be different from the ordinance promulgated by the President.The union government’s new law was brought by amending the Epidemic Act-1897 and focuses on protecting doctors and health workers.The chief minister gave his nod for the ordinance after holding discussions with his ministers and senior officers at a meeting of Team-11 to review the lockdown here on Wednesday.Yogi also asked his team to increase the capacity of dedicated Covid-19 hospitals’ beds (L-1, L-2, and L-3) to 52,000. He said a capacity of 1 lakh beds should be created on a war footing within a month and added that safety protocol for protection against infection should be followed in all Covid-19 hospitals.The chief minister said corona testing should be increased and pool testing encouraged. He said availability of essential commodities to people must be ensured during the lockdown and action should be taken against those indulging in black marketing, hoarding and under-weighing.Yogi said services of volunteers of Yuvak Mangal Dal, Nehru Yuva Kendra, NCC and NSS should be taken for community surveillance work. He also said self-help groups (SHGs) should be involved in providing food to those lodged in quarantine centres and shelter homes. The chief minister said efforts should be made to convert ‘red’ zones into ‘orange’ and ‘orange’ zones into ‘green’ and that a work plan was being prepared to restart industrial activity in ‘orange’ and ‘green’ zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/to-protect-corona-warriors-up-set-to-bring-stricter-ordinance/story-HDOvmFBojvUH6L6WWETZ8M.html
30-04-2020||Mumbai||Yes Bank fraud: Special court extends CBI custody of Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan till May 1||The special CBI court on Wednesday extended the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) custody of Dheeraj and Kapil Wadhawan of Diwan Housing Finance Corporation Limited (DHFL) till May 1 in connection with the Yes Bank fraud case.The brothers were arrested on Sunday and were remanded in CBI custody till Wednesday. As the period for custody ended, the CBI produced them before the special CBI court on Wednesday seeking extension of their custody for further investigation.The agency said they only got one day after their arrest to interrogate them on the various aspects of loans and debentures obtained from Yes Bank during the tenure of Rana Kapoor, co-founder and CEO of Yes Bank. The prosecution also claimed the accused have not cooperated in the questioning, hence the probing agency needs more time to unearth the conspiracy.The plea was objected by defence lawyers, Amit Desai and Subodh Desai, who submitted that the custodial interrogation of the two is not required. It was argued that the case is based on banking transaction and money trails, documents of which are available with the agency. They also submitted that everything is available in the form of record and argues that the accused need not be sent to CBI custody in times of Covid-19 pandemic.The court, after considering the arguments from both sides, extended the CBI custody of the two brothers for two more days till May 1.According to the CBI FIR, between April and June, 2018, Yes Bank invested ₹3,700 crore in short-term debentures of DHFL, which is till date not redeemed. It is further alleged that Yes Bank had sanctioned loans to RKW Developers, where Dheeraj is a director, and that the whole amount was siphoned off by Kapil. CBI has alleged that in return, Wadhawans allegedly “paid kickback of ₹600 crore” to Kapoor and his family members in the form of loan to DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/yes-bank-fraud-special-court-extends-cbi-custody-of-kapil-and-dheeraj-wadhawan-till-may-1/story-LqS9XEmBJSG29iihcvIxpL.html
30-04-2020||Mumbai||Police step up security measures in Mumbai slums to contain spread||In a bid to contain further outbreak of Covid-19 at Kurla and Sakinaka slums in L ward, which is becoming a hotspot after densely populated slums like Worli Koliwada and Dharavi, Sakinaka and Powai police are taking a slew of measures to ensure people follow lockdown orders and social distancing norms. Ankit Goyal, DCP of zone 10 which covers Jogeshwari (East), Andheri (E), Sakinaka and Powai, said, “The slums in Sakinaka are dense and congested. Most of the residents there are labourers. As most rooms in these slums are shared by a number people, our officers are trying to convince them to stay in their houses. There are many containment zones here; hence we ensure vegetables vendors, grain sellers drive their vehicles till the entry points of the containment zones, thus making it easy for the residents.” Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Kishor Sawant, senior inspector from Sakinaka police station, said, “In my jurisdiction there are 89 positive patients and 45 containment zones. I have deployed police teams in markets, junctions, containment zones and have asked them to send us pictures of the areas every two to three hours to update me with the situation. If a team reports that people are not listening to them, we send additional men to handle the situation.” “We have additional hands to help the needy people as well as us in maintaining law and order. The 8 corporators in my jurisdiction and their men help us round the clock by distributing food to migrant labourers. In addition, more than 59 masjids and madrassas and 15 non-government organisations (NGOs) are helping the needy by giving them food, water and grains on a daily basis,” said Sawant.111 FIRs on Tuesday against 165 people The Mumbai Police lodged 111 FIRs against 165 people and arrested 99 people on Tuesday for lockdown violations. A maximum of 56 cases were in central region and 34 in west region, the worst-affected areas in the city. A maximum of 40 FIRs were for not wearing masks, 31 for gathering in one place and 24 for illegal use of vehicles. The remaining cases were against shops/hawkers operating illegally.6 cops from Vakola test positive in special drive for cops An assistant police inspector from Sahar police station and five constables from Vakola police station tested positive in a special testing drive for cops wherein around 100 policemen were tested. Shashikant Mane, senior inspector of Sahar police station, said “After our API tested positive we quarantined eight policemen from Sahar police station.” Till Wednesday evening, 106 police personnel have tested positive while three constables succumbed to the disease.141 positive in state police, 11 recovered A total of 141 police personnel, including 16 officers and 125 men, across the state tested positive. However, of them, five officers and six men have recovered from the disease.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Meanwhile, a total of 83,156 FIRs have been registered and 16,897 people were arrested across the state for lockdown violations. A total of 49,802 vehicles were seized and ₹2.94 crore was collected in fines. Police helpline 100 has received 80,617 calls from across the state for Covid-19 related issues. Duo booked for using Vidhan Sabha logo to roam during lockdown Matunga police booked two people for using a sticker of ‘Maharashtra Vidhan Sabha Member’ on their car to avoid being stopped at Nakabandi points. The father-son duo has been served with a notice for violating lockdown norms. According to the police, the incident was reported on April 28 when the accused Kamlesh Shah, 54, was stopped by cops at a Nakabandi and could not give any evidence to prove he was a member of the Vidhan Sabha. The accused were later released, said Vijay Singh Ghadge, senior inspector, Matunga police station. Man clings out of a window of a quarantined building The Mumbai Police was informed through a Twitter post that a person was clinging out of the window at a quarantine centre in Kanjurmarg (west) on Wednesday. The user posted pictures of the man outside the window and complained to the police stating the man was doing stunts. The police said they have started a probe into the incident. (With inputs from Pratik Salunke, Faisal Tandel, Jayprakash S Naidu)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/police-step-up-security-measures-in-other-slums-to-contain-spread/story-lJRonUrDVzLf00RvmvQUNJ.html
30-04-2020||City||Three children among 23 new Covid cases in Thane||Twenty-three people in Thane tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, the second-highest spike after 29 tested positive on April 13. The total number of cases in Thane is 279.Two girls, aged six and 10, and a 15-year-old boy are among the eight cases reported from Wagale Estate. They are the extended family members of a social worker who tested positive last week, leading to quarantining of 50 people. Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, said, “Eight cases, including the three children, are from the slum areas of CP Talao.”Three new cases are found in Mumbra, taking the total number of cases in Mumbra to 50, the highest among all wards.On Wednesday, Thane Municipal Corporation sealed an IT park at Vartak Nagar, after three of its employees tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-children-among-23-new-covid-cases-in-thane/story-1lXwseaqD2ZFpEUapdGCtN.html
30-04-2020||Gurugram||Faridabad closes border to Delhi, Gurugram likely to follow suit||Faridabad sealed the five entry (and exit) points from (to) Delhi on Wednesday, prohibiting the entry of all commuters, including essential workers, until May 3, while Gurugram is likely to follow suit, as Haryana sought to insulate itself from the wave of coronavirus disease cases in the capital. Gurugram’s chief coordinator for Covid-19 activities, VS Kundu, said that the Delhi-Gurugram borders are also likely to be sealed by Friday and the passes for inter-state movement had been put on hold. “Maybe from Thursday night or Friday morning, (Gurugram) borders will be sealed,” said Kundu, adding that a notification from the state government is awaited for the same.People who entered Delhi from Faridabad on Wednesday were informed that they would not be allowed to return. At least 5,000 police personnel were deployed across Faridabad to ensure the orders were complied with. Ambulances and vehicles ferrying essential items are exempt from the order, said officials.On Tuesday night, Faridabad deputy commissioner (DC), Yashpal Yadav, imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC in the district, in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. Doctors, paramedical staff, police personnel and bank employees were allowed to move, after showing their IDs, but only until noon on Wednesday.“Those working in Delhi will have to make arrangements to live near their workplaces and will not be allowed to move in and out of the district,” Yadav explained.The DC’s order stated, “The district has tightened restrictions over the movement of government employees and regular people from other states and districts as the number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) rose in the district after people travelled to Faridabad and the virus was spread.”However, there is no bar on movement between Faridabad and the adjoining districts of Palwal and Gurugram, albeit, with requisite permissions. Barricades were set up at all traffic junctions and residential areas of Faridabad. The police deployed 5,000 personnel at 103 checkpoints and at least 35 each at nine locations that border Delhi, Palwal and Gurugram.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, Faridabad, said: “The recent Covid-19 cases are of those who had visited Delhi. So we are taking precautionary measures to ensure that the infection does not spread. For newspapers, the vehicles will be allowed to deliver the paper till the border and the distributors can pick them up from the borders.” So far, 50 positive cases of Covid-19 have been recorded in Faridabad. Haryana has a total of 311 and Delhi, 3,439. Panic-stricken residents criticised the order and called it ”insensitive” .Sanjeev Khurana, who owns a factory in Faridabad and resides in Sector 63, and travels frequently to Delhi to get raw materials, said that staying with acquaintances and friends in Delhi is not an option, as there is apprehension over the virus . “After this new order, we are stuck. What if the lockdown does not lift for another month? How will our families manage here? The officials are not ready to understand the circumstances that if we do not attend office, we might end up losing our jobs,” he said.Yadav said that vehicles transporting essential items and ambulances will be allowed to enter the district. “The movement passes issued by the district administration and police will be recognised but anyone found violating the rules and regulations will be penalised under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC),” he said.Factories in Faridabad which reopened on April 20, can make arrangements for their workers to stay on the factory premises or elsewhere within the city, said Yadav.Sanjeev Khemka, director, KCL Limited, which has a factory in Sector 24, said his company has “arranged rooms and food” for some workers and that others are locals. . However, a few factory owners said supervising staff, who live in Delhi, won’t be able to make it to work.Meanwhile, the Gurugram administration said that the borders with Delhi were not sealed, but that it has increased surveillance at all interstate and interdistrict borders.Amit Khatri, DC, Gurugram, said, “The borders connecting Delhi will not be sealed. We will monitor the situation and changes will be made after the cases are under control. Unregulated movement at the Gurugram-Delhi borders will not be allowed. We will strictly enforce a restriction on vehicular movement to prevent infection from spreading. The effort is to increase the screening in the cross movement.”At the Sirhaul border on Wednesday morning, traffic congestion and long queues were witnessed due to the checks.Mohammad Akil, the commissioner of police, Gurugram, said his teams are checking each vehicle entering in the city. “All the vehicles carrying vegetables and essential items will also be checked to ensure no smuggling of illicit liquor and illicit drugs,” he said.Haryana home affairs minister Anil Vij on Tuesday said that at least 15 people who tested positive for the coronavirus disease in Haryana recently, contracted the disease in Delhi. Vij said that his government has asked the Delhi government to provide accommodation to Haryana residents who work in the Capital so that they are not required to travel back into the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/faridabad-closes-border-to-delhi-gurugram-likely-to-follow-suit/story-pmDbv4eV45I8bKeyiuC5FM.html
30-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Factories in the lurch as inter-state travel curbs hit supply chain, availability of labour||With Haryana increasing restrictions on interstate travel to and from Delhi, industry owners in the district are uncertain as to when production activities in Manesar, Udyog Vihar, Daulatabad and Basai will resume. While they were hopeful that the period after April 20 would allow for the resumption of factories, at least at a reduced capacity, sealing of the state’s borders have left them in the lurch again, said industry owners.Gurugram is the centre of manufacturing and business in North India; yet it looks like the restrictions, especially regarding the inter-state movement to and from Delhi, will create problems in return to normalcy.Faridabad, also a factory hub, sealed all five of its borders with Delhi on Wednesday, imposing a ban on the entry of all commuters, including essential workers. In Gurugram, curbs on non-essential travel to and from Delhi started Tuesday, while the issuance of interstate travel passes was also put on hold.VS Kundu, chief coordinator for Covid-19 in Gurugram, said that an official notification to seal the Gurugram’s borders also is expected by Thursday. “Interstate movement with Delhi would likely to be put on hold, maybe from Thursday night or Friday morning,” he said.In a message to the press on Wednesday, Amit Khatri, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said, “If anyone needs to come from Delhi to Gurugram for work, we would advise them to make arrangements to remain here.”Transporters have been refusing to accept bookings for ferrying goods and raw materials to and from Gurugram due to the curbs, said factory owners. “We are not able to procure either raw materials from Delhi, nor are we able to get rid of the old stock by sending it outside the district,” said Animesh Saxena, general secretary of the Garment Export and Manufacturing Association.“Not just Delhi, the news has created panic and truckers are refusing to provide services to other states also,” Saxena said.Gurugram shares 11 borders with Delhi and three of them — Kapashera, Sirhaul and MG Road — are vital business lifelines. There are 2,200 manufacturing units in IMT Manesar, up to 1,000 in Udyog Vihar, 500 in Sector 37, besides a few in Daulatabad and Basai, according to the Gurugram Industrial Association.About half of them are involved in automobiles, component manufacturing for automobiles and allied industries, followed by garment manufacturers, packaging and consumer goods, and pharmaceuticals, all of which are now uncertain about when production will resume.Explaining that many micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) rely on wholesale markets in Delhi to procure raw materials, Sunil Panwar of the IMT Industrial Association said, “If they shut the borders with Delhi, a lot of raw material will simply not reach us. This will adversely affect those mainly working in garments and plastics, not so much automobiles, which have a more elaborate and global supply chain.”Umesh Dwivedi, an MSME proprietor in Daulatabad, said, “Even if, through some dedicated effort, raw materials do reach us, finished goods will not be allowed to renter Delhi.”Additionally, the presence of factory owners and managerial staff residing in Delhi is needed to ensure that social distancing norms and guidelines for the safety of labour are followed. “If they cannot come to work and supervise, how will things continue? The workers cannot operate on their own,” Dwivedi said.According to industry owners, the ministry of home affairs’ guidelines on the resumption of industries are better suited to MSMEs, which employ fewer people and operate with smaller capacities. While automobile manufacturers have been given permission to resume their work, many smaller unit owners are still awaiting permission. However, MSMEs, which are dependent on less-complicated supply chains, would have been able to resume activities and enforce social distancing much faster, proprietors said.Panwar said, “Automobile manufacturers will take at least another 20 days to take stock of materials all along their supply chain, which is more complex and spread across the globe. MSMEs could easily have enforced social distancing and continued work, but permissions for many of them have not been granted yet. It will be hard to resume work if Delhi borders are sealed.”An industry owner estimated that if the lockdown is lifted after May 3, it will take at least three months for production to gain momentum. Ashok Kohli, president, Chamber of Industries, Udyog Vihar, said, “Even after lockdown is relaxed, the normalcy in the industry sector will return in at least three months, or not before September. By then, summer will be over and products manufactured for sale in summer will lose their value. The supply chain has been disrupted and workers, in large numbers, have left. The fear of the virus will remain until we find a cure. The industry has been set back by three years in terms of production and to compensate for the loss, it may take as much time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-factories-in-the-lurch-as-inter-state-travel-curbs-hit-supply-chain-availability-of-labour/story-xkWKrZoC6jhWbpjbQdJ5lO.html
30-04-2020||Delhi||After Faridabad border sealing, essential service providers appeal for help||The sealing of the Delhi-Haryana border at Faridabad could hit essential services, senior government officials warned on Wednesday and assured that the administration, police and civic agencies were making alternative arrangements to ensure their frontline workers were able to come to work every day.The Faridabad district administration on Wednesday afternoon completely sealed its border with Delhi to insulate itself from Covid cases from across the border in Delhi. People were earlier allowed to enter or leave Faridabad by showing curfew passes or heir identity cards if they came under essential services listed by the government. Many employees of Delhi’s three civic bodies, Delhi Police and those from crucial departments such as health, Delhi Jal Board and District Disaster Management Authority come to Delhi for work every day from different parts of Faridabad and its adjoining areas. Apart from government employees, there are many who cross the border daily and come to south and south-east Delhi to work at milk shops, grocery stores and pharmacies . HT has learnt from senior government’s officials that Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal has directed chief secretary Vijay Dev and police commissioner SN Shrivastava to devise a plan to provide local accommodation to health workers and essential service providers so that they do not have to travel daily.“The plan is not yet ready. It will be in place in a day or two,” said a senior government officialDelhi Police is already providing accommodation to around 675 of its junior personnel at different hotels and guest houses in the city. Senior officials said the Delhi government had already commenced talks with its Haryana counterparts to ensure that at least some essential service workers were able to travel. For health workers directly working in designated Covid-19 hospitals and quarantine centres, the Delhi government has booked hotels and guest houses.Home Minister Satyendar Jain confirmed the state government had started talks with Haryana. “We are in touch with the Haryana and UP governments. We hope they allow the movement of those catering to essential services, especially health workers,” Jain said.The Uttar Pradesh government, has till now, not sealed its borders with Delhi completely and is allowing movement on the basis of curfew passes and identity cards.Delhi Police officials said that on Wednesday they contacted the management of different colleges and told them to try and accommodate some of its personnel at their hostels. A senior police officer, who did not wish to be named, said that a few hostels have offered to house the policemen. Over 5,000 policemen come to Delhi from Faridabad every day.From managing containment zones, security on the roads, feeding the homeless and ensuring social distancing across the city -- police are at the forefront in this fight against Covid-19. “Most of our junior staff — constables, head constables, assistant sub-inspectors — come from Faridabad or adjoining areas.. There will be some problems but we are prepared. We have hotels and guest houses for now but will need more space. We are rationing our workforce in order to maintain social distancing. Many police stations are working with 66-70% strength. Many who come from that side of Haryana are already on leave,” said the Delhi Police official. Government officials said this was the first time since the anti-Sikh riots that the border had been completely sealed.The border closure hampered services in Delhi hospitals, with healthcare workers unable to report for duty. At Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital, the duty rosters had to be changed on Wednesday because of thin attendance.“Around 25 to 30% of the hospital staff come from outside the state. We have had to change the duty rosters, but it is a temporary measure. People finishing their shifts are being asked to stay on and help. But this cannot be sustained,” said a doctor from the hospital.Apart from those working in Covid wards, the hospital has been unable to organise any lodging accommodation for the others.“There were a few people who had come for duty and hen got stuck in Delhi. They have been accommodated in the hostel, but that cannot be done for too many people. People on Covid-19 duty have already been provided hotel accommodation. It is not possible or feasible to do so for all hospital staff,” said the doctor.Private hospitals nears border areas like Apollo and Fortis (Escorts, Vasant Kunj, and Gurugram) will face problems if healthcare professionals are not allowed to cross the border. “Yes, we are facing problems due to this. We are hopeful the Delhi and Haryana governments will resolve the issue. This will help our staff in rendering patient care to all,” said an official spokesperson from Indraprastha Apollo Hospital.At least 400 staff in two Fortis hospitals -- one in Delhi, one in Gurugram -- live across the borders“This is like drawing resources away. As it is there is a shortage of staff in the hospitals,” said Dr PK Bharadwaj, secretary, Delhi Voluntary Hospitals Forum.A 39-year-old Auxiliary Nursing Midwife (ANM) at a dispensary in central Delhi, who did not wish to be named, said she couldn’t go to the dispensary on Wednesday due to restrictions on the Delhi-Haryana border near Sonipat following the Haryana government’s decision.“Due to the lockdown, we were somehow managing to report to duty. But after the Haryana government’s recent decision, it has become impossible to cross the border. What if they completely seal this border too? This is for the first time I am working from home. Since morning I’m coordinating with Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) workers regarding the door-to-door survey. But it is not possible to work like this,” she said.The 39-year-old has been working as with the Delhi government dispensary for the past 13 years.The Union of Delhi’s contractual healthcare workers (National Health Mission-Reproductive Child Health Contractual Employees Welfare Society—Delhi) has also written to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, BJP MLA from Badarpur , which lies in south-east Delhi and shares border with Faridabad, said that a lot of essential services provides couldn’t make it to work on Wednesday.“I’m getting complaints and requests regarding water supply and shortage of ration from some centres. The people who could have addressed the problem couldn’t make it to work on Wednesday . The Haryana government has taken the right decision as it wants to protect its people. The Delhi government too should either make arrangement for their (people from Faridabad) stay here or talk to Haryana government and make special arrangements,” said Bidhuri.Bidhuri said hundreds of sanitation workers, mostly posted in the south-east and south districts, live in Faridabad, Ballabhgarh and residential neighbourhoods near the Delhi-Faridabad border. “There are so many sanitation workers who live just near the Delhi-Faridabad border and were majorly hit because of the restrictions,” he added.The three civic bodies of Delhi said they are ready to open their primary schools and community centres if such sanitation workers needed a place to stay in Delhi. Until Wednesday night, they were yet to issue an order.In areas of south-east Delhi, such as Sarita Vihar and Kalkaji, many shopkeepers said that their delivery boys and employees had not reported for work because of the ban . “Two of my employees are residents of Ballabhgarh. They would help me deliver milk, grocery at DDA flats in Sarita Vihar. They couldn’t come today. I will now have to either stop home delivery or shut shop,” said Rajen Krishna, who runs a department store.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/after-faridabad-border-sealing-essential-service-providers-appeal-for-help/story-BaReKOgIWPb6TlPBKL6wzK.html
30-04-2020||Delhi||In times of Covid-19, mohalla clinics, small hospitals take lead in treating other illnesses||With major hospitals focusing on treating patients with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), secondary care hospitals, dispensaries and mohalla clinics have taken the lead in providing health care services to patients with health problems other than Covid-19.At the 100-bed Lal Bahadur Shastri hospital in East Delhi’s Khichripur area, doctors still treat around 1,200 patients daily in out-patient clinics. “Earlier, we used to get cases only from neighbouring areas; now people from all over Delhi are coming to our clinics. There is a lot of rush in the out-patient clinics, which should have reduced during the lockdown. We try to tell people to maintain one-metre distance, but it is becoming very challenging,” a senior doctor at the hospital said on condition of anonymity.At the mohalla clinics, doctors over the age of 60 years have been given the option of not working, as older people are at a higher risk of developing the infections. Yet, many continue to work.Around 360 of the 450 clinics across the city are still operational .“Around 180 to 200 patients are still coming to my clinic—a little more than the number I get usually—most of them from far off places. The bigger hospitals in the area have either closed their OPDs or curtailed them; those patients are also coming to me,” a doctor from a mohalla clinic in East Delhi said on condition of anonymity. The doctor said he dons a mask and gloves and uses sanitiser constantly. To maintain social distancing among patients, he asks them to queue one metre apart from each other outside the portacabin.“Most private clinics across the city are still shut because doctors find it difficult to take adequate measures to prevent infections. The fear set in after some of the doctors from clinics started testing positive. Now, many provide telephonic consultation or patients go to the emergency departments of hospitals,” Dr Girish Tyagi, president-elect of Delhi Medical Association, said.In Shahdara district, the government is still operating more than 40 mohalla clinics despite the district having seven containment zones, including Dilshad Garden—one of the first 10 Covid-19 hotspots in the country.“Of the 45 mohalla clinics, 42 are operational and we see close to 100 patients in each clinic. The mohalla clinic in Babarpur, where the doctor tested positive, is also operating. We provide all the necessary equipment, including face shields, to our doctors and staff and advised them to ensure social distancing at the clinics,” a district medical officer said on condition of anonymity. In another West Delhi clinic, a doctor has been interacting with residents of a nearby slum to explain to them what “social distancing” is and why it is important.“People do not understand why they should not step out of their houses, they do not understand why they shouldn’t talk to their neighbours. I have spoken to several people in the locality to try and explain the infection to them. Now, at least, they make it a point to cover their faces and sit at a distance even when they step out of their homes in the evening,” the doctor said, asking not to be identifiedBut all is not well at the mohalla clinics. The clinics are facing issues in getting medicines on time and testing people. “There have been some issues in getting the medicines to the clinics—logistical issues because of the lockdown,” the district medical officer said. “All tests have stopped since the lockdown in March because the technician who collected the samples is unable to do so. We are yet to get reports of the samples collected in March,” a second doctor who asked not to be named said. A third doctor added: “Even if they could come, it is impossible to maintain a one-metre distance while taking samples and the technicians do not have personal protective gear.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/in-times-of-covid-19-mohalla-clinics-small-hospitals-take-lead-in-treating-other-illnesses/story-vdjilQYPfZcSEpAoxRIDDO.html
30-04-2020||Delhi||Patparganj hospital closed for 3 days after TB specialist doctor tests positive||One of the public hospitals for respiratory diseases in east Delhi, Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Chest Hospital in Patparganj, had to be shut for three days on Tuesday following a 63-year-old doctor here testing positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The doctor was a Tuberculosis specialist and is said to have attended to dozens of patients in the last two weeks. He is now admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital in Tahirpur.“He suffers from hyper-anxiety. This is the only pre-existing medical condition we know of. Currently, we are not sure how he got infected, but we are helping the district administration trace his contacts,” said Arun Kumar, spokesperson of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation, which runs this hospital.At least 55 other doctors, nurses and lower staff, who work here and have interacted with him in the last few days, have been quarantined at home for three days to check if they develop any symptoms. “The names of two staff members who worked closely with him—an X-Ray technician and a ward boy—have been sent for Covid tests,” said a doctor who works here but declined to give his name.The hospital complex—which includes a maternity centre, an Ayurveda centre and a Homeopathy centre—is being sanitised thoroughly. It is a 48-bed hospital that provides essential services to poor patients for respiratory diseases like sputum AFB microscopy test, bronchoscopy and CB Net. At least 150 patients come here daily. “We hope to reopen it by Friday,” Kumar said.Meanwhile, a 26-year-old gynaecologist working at the North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s Kasturba Hospital near Jama Masjid was also found Covid-positive on Wednesday, following which at least seven doctors and four nurses, who worked closely with her, have been quarantined at home. “They will be tested soon,” the north body’s spokesperson Ira Singhal said.Kasturba Hospital is the second biggest hospital of the north corporation after Hindu Rao Hospital in Malka Ganj. The Hindu Rao Hospital had to be shut for a day, on Sunday, following a nurse testing Covid-positive there.A ward helper also tested Covid-positive at the north body’s Rajan Babu TB Hospital in GTB Nagar on Tuesday night. “Her husband, who also works in the same hospital, has tested negative. Three other ward helpers have been asked to quarantine themselves at home,” Singhal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/patparganj-hospital-closed-for-3-days-after-tb-specialist-doctor-tests-positive/story-BGlz33EVc1Ch6lU18hLIKI.html
30-04-2020||Delhi||To speed up testing, Delhi govt says no to Noida lab||To speed up testing in Delhi, the government on Wednesday ordered that no sample must be sent to central-government-run National Institute of Biologicals (NIB) in Noida till the end of the week. The samples that were being sent to the Noida-lab will be redistributed among the other government laboratories in the city.The Delhi government had on Tuesday raised the issue of delay in test results in a meeting with union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan. A day later, the Delhi government order clarified that NIB was the culprit.“The RT-PCR tests have to be performed expeditiously in Delhi for the containment zones and the patients admitted. The samples collected from different districts are being sent to various government and private labs, majorly to NIB, Noida in the last 15 days. It has been observed that there is considerable pendency for testing reports in NIB which is hindering the effective containment of the disease [sic],” the Delhi government order said.Similar orders have been issued in previous weeks.“We have not been sending our samples to the NIB for at least a week now. The reports were taking about a week. The problem is without the positive results, even though we tell people to remain in quarantine, they end up going to local shops, etc. If this happens for a week, imagine the number of people that could be infected. We need the reports as soon as possible so we can admit them to Covid centres,” a district health official said.There has been a tussle between the Delhi and UP governments for the use of the laboratory’s resources, sources who know of the matter said. “The laboratory has been chosen for district sampling because of its huge capacity, but the pendency is high and there has been a tussle between who should use its resources as the UP government has also been sending several samples to the facility, leading to a long waiting time,” the person said.In most Covid-19 designated hospitals, microbiology laboratories are equipped to do the Covid-19 tests, meaning there are no delays.“Usually it takes two days at the latest to get the reports in the hospital. However, the wait time has gone up by around a day since other samples have started coming in. Our laboratory is equipped to manage our cases,” a doctor from Lok Nayak Hospital said. The government has also come up with a coding mechanism for the samples being sent to the lab—CCC for Covid Care Centres, CTC for Covid Test Centres, CHC for Covid Health Centres, and CZ for containment zone. This is to be followed by the numerical district code 01 – 11, followed by a three-digit code for the facility. Samples coming from hospitals will be marked with their initials such as LNJP, RGSSH, LHMC, RML etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/to-speed-up-testing-govt-says-no-to-noida-lab/story-10JI1c6BU4kzU5CmIVvMPP.html
30-04-2020||Delhi||In the shadow of a Covid Care Centre in Narela, local residents live in fear||Pratap Chauhan always called the area where he lives a ghost town. Every evening, as he stood on the terrace of his fourth-floor flat with his wife and daughter, all he saw were rows and rows of empty and dark apartment buildings without a soul in sight; a scene, he says, that depressed him.But in mid- March, those buildings began to shimmer to life over the span of a few days. Then, he began to see people on the balconies of those buildings. But, ironically, the brightly lit buildings and people, instead of lifting his mood, left him feeling anxious. For the buildings were part of a Covid-19 Care Centre in Narela , one of the largest quarantine facilities in the country, where hundreds of people, including those who attended a Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin in March and tested positive, have been quarantined in the past one and a half month.The city has seven Covid Care Centres and, as on Wednesday, according to the Delhi State Health Bulletin, the facility in Narela housed 473 of 985 Covid-19 patients admitted in these centres. The army took over the daytime management of the Narela quarantine centre on April 16, while the Delhi government’s health department manages it at night.“Earlier, we were the only ones in this uninhabited urban jungle. Now we have company. But I am worried. While I have heard that the virus does not travel through air, you never know in the case of a new virus. Everyone in our apartment is living in fear,” Chauhan says.Till a month ago, the terrace of his apartment was where Chauhan went every evening with his family to overcome the claustrophobia of his cramped flat. But now he is wary of going there. “I can see the quarantined people on the roofs and balconies, and hear announcements on loudspeakers asking them to go inside. That makes me fearful,” he says.Chauhan is a resident of Arayavrat Apartment in Sector G-2, Narela, a sprawling complex of 2,156 LIG (low-income group) flats spread over an area of 4.71 hectares. The residents have, for the past five years, led an isolated life with little access to transport or social infrastructure.All Delhi Development Authority (DDA) flats around Chauhan’s complex are still empty. The DDA has so far offered 4,600-odd flats in Narela’s Sector G6 to the Delhi government to run the quarantine facility. Currently, about 1,000-odd flats are in use in different towers.Residents of Arayavrat Apartment say the area which not so long ago had the silence of a graveyard, suddenly began to buzz with activity –several white tents of security personnel came up; and all variety of vehicles from ambulances, police vans, cars and buses started speeding past their gate, often with sirens blaring.“Earlier, a creepy silence permeated the area, which had now been replaced by the horns and sirens of police vans and ambulances,” Ravi Chandra, another resident, says.Chandra can see the quarantine centre from his kitchen window, on the other side of an open field, about 300 metres away. “I liked the fresh air coming through the window every morning as I made tea. But now I keep all doors and windows shut and we prefer to wear masks even inside homes,” says Chandra, who lives with his wife and son.But the DDA said residents have little to fear. “The distance between the boundary walls of the quarantine facility and the nearest housing society may be 300 metres, but the main entries of the quarantine facility and the nearest residential complex is more than a kilometre from each other,” says Rajiv Gandhi, commissioner (housing) DDA.Shekhar Gaur, the guard of Arayavrat Apartment, says that his wife has been pressuring him to find another job, away from the quarantine centre. “But I remind her of doctors and other health care workers posted right inside the quarantine centre and doing their duty,” Gaur says.Initially, when the empty DDA flats were declared a quarantine centre, Gaur says he had a tough time telling vehicle drivers that the apartment complex was not a quarantine centre. “The area was new to most people and some of them confused our building for the quarantine centre. Now I keep the gates closed at all times,” Gaur says.Currently, about 400 families live in Arayavrat Apartment. “Some families left and some sent their children to relatives, fearing they might contract the virus,” says Dimple Rani, who lives with her husband and two children. “I am scared of letting my children stand even on the balconies now,” she says.Chauhan says what also instilled fear among the residents was the news that two of quarantined people at the centre tried to run away, though they were later caught. “We got worried what if someone ran away from there and entered our apartments,” he says.Dheerendra Rai, who lives with his father, says he regrets the fact that no one from any government agency has met them or tried to allay their fears. “They should at least undertake the sanitisation of the entire area on a regular basis, it was done only once, ” says Rai. “Earlier, all of us fervently wished that buildings in our vicinity were occupied; that we all got some social life. But I am not sure if this was what we bargained for.”“Such areas are closely monitored in adherence to guidelines issued by the Union health ministry. Other than that, teams from the subdivisional magistrate’s office periodically talk to community leaders and residents’ welfare body members to minimise their concerns regarding transmission as long as the stay indoors and follow social distancing norms,” a senior official from the district administration, on condition of anonymity, said.Chauhan says that there are also some positive aspects of having a quarantine centre in the vicinity. “Every other day, we used to hear about thefts and robbery, but not any more. The heavy security in the area keeps us safe from criminals, though I am not sure if we are safe from the coronavirus,” he says.Professor Jugal Kishore, head, community medicine, Vardhman Mahavir Medical College & Safdarjung Hospital, says that the virus cannot travel through the air for more than one metre and anyone living in the vicinity of a quarantine centre need not worry. “Three hundred metres is quite a long distance. What the apartment people need to do is maintain general hygiene, and they should ensure no one spits in the open, ” he says, adding, “ Spraying the walls does not help; it is better to keep your doors, handles, lift button sanitised. ”The area in a 500m radius of the quarantine centre has been turned into a buffer zone, a senior medical officer in the north Delhi revenue district said. The buffer zone , the official said, is treated like a semi-containment zone with high surveillance, restricted movement of individuals and vehicles and staggered timings for shops selling essentials.A senior Delhi government official said, “All standard operating procedures have been followed at the facility. Residential areas are far off from the facility. People don’t have to worry”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/in-the-shadow-of-a-covid-care-centre-in-narela-local-residents-live-in-fear/story-Pfil52LAIXkgDM18scsbWK.html
30-04-2020||Delhi||In Delhi, pets abandoned, strays face cruelty due to Covid fear||The lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19 infection has had an adverse impact on animal life in the city, according to animal lovers and activists.Members of non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and activists say that instances of pets, mainly dogs and cats, being abandoned during the lockdown have gone up significantly, with most winding up at shelter homes. Besides, strays are being subjected to cruelty due to the Covid scare and also being run over by speeding vehicles.According to Frendicoes, which runs an animal hospital and asylum in Defence Colony, Delhi and Gopalpur, Haryana, there has been a three-fold rise in the number of pets left at its doorstep.“Earlier, we would get only about four or five pet dogs a month, but since the lockdown began, we have received 30 of them — ranging from puppies to old German Shepherds, Golden Retrievers, Great Danes, Labradors and loal breeds — left at our facilities,” said Kartick Satyanarayan, executive member, Frendicoes.“We have counselled at least thrice the usual number of pet owners over the phone not to leave them (the pets). People cite reasons like inability to get cat or dog food, take them for a walk, or neighbours objecting to their presence. One man recently told me, ‘Mere chhote chhote bacche hain, unhe dog se corona ho gaya to?’ (I have small kids at home, what if they catch the infection from the pet?),” said Geeta Seshamani, vice-president of the organisation.Divya Puri, an animal lover, said Chennai-based Indian Veterinary Association (IVA) on April 1 issued a public notice stating: “To date, there is no evidence of companion animals spreading the disease.”This was after a report stated that a cat had tested positive for Covid-19 in Belgium.“We recently found a small Chow Chow dog tied to a pole and left to die in this searing heat in Jangpura. It is an expensive breed, costing no less than ₹50,000-60,000 in the market. This one was absolutely healthy, leading us to assume it’s a fallout of the Covid-19 fear,” Puri added.Many dog owners are simply keeping their pets in balconies and refusing to let them inside the house, Puri said.And stray dogs are suffering from bizarre incidents of cruelty. A resident of RK Puram recently reported two cases, wherein someone had poured a bucket of Savlon solution on a cat and phenol on a dog.“The cat’s eyes were affected, and in the case of the dog, the phenol went into its ears. Both had to be rushed to a veterinary hospital. I am convinced someone did it deliberately, trying to disinfect them in a very inhumane, unscientific and crude manner,” said Anusheh, the resident, who works with Indigree Angels Trust, an NGO. She gave only one name. Anusheh also said she recently buried nine dogs killed on the roads. “The roads are devoid of heavy traffic now and the animals can’t see many humans around, so they have become relaxed while crossing roads. Meanwhile, the few vehicles on the roads are speeding, leading to road kills,” she said.A wildlife rescuer in Delhi said the road kills are not just restricted to domesticated pets and stray dogs, but also to wild animals. “We are finding many dead mongoose and squirrels, which went under the wheels, around the forested ridge area,” said Abhinav Srihan, who runs Fauna Police, an NGO.There are also concerns about the impact of sodium hypochlorite, used by municipal corporations for sanitisation, on animals. “We are asking all persons, who find such cases (of animal poisoning), to send the carcasses for a post-mortem examination or viscera for testing toxicity,” said Gauri Maulekhi, a member of the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI).The health officer of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, Ashok Rawat, said, “We have not received any such complaint so far. Besides, this is a highly diluted solution, of only 1% sodium hypochlorite in 99% water, prepared as per the norms prescribed by the World Health Organisation (WHO).”A veterinary official of the municipality, who didn’t wish to be named, said it’s highly unlikely that a stray animal could die of ingesting the disinfectant liquid. “Dogs have a very strong sense of smell and sodium hypochlorite has a pungent smell. So it’s highly unlikely that an animal would even touch it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/in-delhi-pets-abandoned-strays-face-cruelty-due-to-covid-fear/story-DfBhY69bpedg9BvUL9ccWL.html
30-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Southwest district magistrate’s office reports three Covid-19 cases||At a time when local administrations in each of the 11 districts of Delhi are pulling out all stops to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the southwest district administration Wednesday suffered a setback with three officials in the district magistrate (DM)’s office testing positive for the coronavirus infection. This is the first instance of cases being reported from a DM’s office, Delhi health officials said. As per the Delhi government’s rules, an area has to be declared a containment zone if three or more Covid-19 cases are reported from there. “As soon as a place reports three positive cases, our officials declare the identified area as a containment zone. As of today, 90 of the 100 containment zones in Delhi have not reported any new Covid-19 case. So, our strict containment policy has helped prevent the spread of the virus,” Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said, during his daily media briefing Wednesday.When asked if this meant that the southwest DM’s office, too, would become a containment zone, a senior government official said that would not be possible as all Covid-19 management activities in that district are being carried out from the office complex.A senior official in the southwest DM’s office who is authorised to speak to the media, said their office is functioning as usual. “The entire office complex has been sanitised and social distancing is being maintained,” the official said.As a precautionary measure, DM (south-west) Rahul Singh has put himself in home quarantine, while 17 others, who were in close contact with the first official who tested positive, have been kept under observation at the Chaudhary Brahm Prakash Ayurvedic Hospital, which is a dedicated Covid-19 health centre.The disease spread in the DM’s office come to fore Sunday night when Singh’s personal secretary tested positive for Covid-19. “On Wednesday, we received the test reports of 17 others from DM’s office. Unfortunately, two civil defence volunteers have tested positive for Covid-19. Both are contacts of the first case (personal secretary to the DM),” the official said. The administration said contact tracing is currently being done and samples will be collected of their primary contacts.“The personal secretary, who was the first case from this office, is likely to have contracted the infection from Uttam Nagar. That’s where he lives and that area also has reported a number of Covid-19 cases. So, preliminary findings indicate that the virus was contracted from his area of residence. The 17 other staff members will be in isolation for the next few days before returning to work,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-southwest-district-magistrate-s-office-reports-three-covid-19-cases/story-FsJa8266EwrZA1VtPhDDCO.html
30-04-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 update: HIV+, stigmatised, GB Road sex workers stare at an uncertain future||A 25-year-old sex worker in Delhi’s GB Road pulled out a Rs 500 currency note from her gullakh (piggy bank) on Tuesday. “This is the last of my savings. Ab sab bhagwan bharose hai (now I have left everything on God),” she says, trying to mask her worry with a laugh.At GB Road, one of Delhi’s largest red light areas, corridors that echoed with the sounds of bangles, anklets and men haggling with brothel heads are eerily silent these days, the faint smell of jasmine gajras (flower headband) and ittar (perfume) has vanished; the balconies from where women called out to potential customers are also empty.Sitting in a room so small that it barely fits a single bed and a table fan, the 25-year-old woman and her friends say that since Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a nationwide lockdown on March 25 they have not earned a single penny.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“The area was barricaded and we were asked to close business. We were hoping that things will resume after a while, but now we do not know how we will survive,” she says.SELF RESPECT AND HUNGERIn the initial days of the lockdown, a few NGOs and philanthropists had taken care of their basic needs, such as groceries, but as days rolled on these women have been left to mostly fend for themselves. Cash strapped and uncertain about if they will be able to resume work at all, sex workers in the national capital are more worried about their survival than the spread of the highly contagious coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreak“How long will social organisations come and help us? Till when will people distribute food and groceries? Ultimately, everyone will be left alone to survive,” says a 32-year-old who had come to Delhi when she was 18 years old. She now has an eight-year-old daughter who is studying in Kolkata.“I have not even been able to send any money home this time. Starvation will kill us before this illness does,” she says.HIV AND COVID-19Delhi government estimates that nearly 986 women are engaged as sex workers in GB Road brothels. The living conditions are unsanitary and three to four women share one residential quarter, just big enough to allow three people to sleep side by side, making it impossible to observe the rules of social/physical distancing—a necessity to keep the viral infection at bay. Many women are also HIV positive because of the nature of their job, making them even more susceptible to contract the virus.Despite the health risks, women here are eager to resume work but the brothel heads are unsure when clients would return.“We are hearing that even if the lockdown ends there is no possibility that people would come to seek the services of women here. We have never witnessed anything like this before. Even when the economy goes down we managed to get customers, but times are different now,” says the head of one of the 250 brothels in the area, where the unofficial number of sex workers is 1,500. Social groups working with sex workers here say that in an unorganised set up such as this, women are highly vulnerable to sexually transmitted diseases. Now, they will also run the risk of catching the coronavirus.“When the lockdown had started, we had gone there with volunteers to distribute groceries. We have asked them to call us if they need anything. These women are considering defiled, but it is the circumstances and society that brought them here (to this profession). At present, we are all responsible for each other. We all need to come together to help humanity,” says Sukhdev Bharadwaj, organisational head (Delhi-NCR) of Sewa Bharti, an organisation that works for the underprivileged.BROTHELS AS HOT SPOTS Sakhi, another NGO, which dedicatedly works with sex workers in GB Road, says the government will have to come up with a long-term plan for these women as their business is likely to be the worst affected. The organisation is conducting mental health counselling for the women here to help them tide over this pandemic. In these sessions, many women have expressed fear of the uncertainty of their future. “These women are not high-end escorts; they barely earn enough to survive. While the government is doing so much for migrant labourers and homeless, no one is talking about sex workers and transgenders (the now officially recognised third sex). The living conditions here are among the worst in the city. If the lockdown doesn’t ease, they are going to die of poverty and if it does they would probably die of the infection; their heads are on a chopping block either way,” says Subrajyoti Sikdar, co-founder of Sakhi.Sikdar ads that the brothels of GB Road could emerge as the biggest hotspots, if a long term plan is not implemented in the area.“Many women were trafficked to Delhi when they were children and some have families that rely on them for sustenance. There is a big question mark on what the future will hold for all of them,” he says.OFFICIALS SPEAKDelhi police officials in the area say that they are dealing with this pandemic “one day at a time” and that they are taking care that the virus does not reach the crowded quarters of the brothels.“We are ensuring that the area is disinfected regularly and we are also working with NGOs to ensure these women get masks, food and groceries from time to time. If a case emerges in any of the kothas (brothels) it will be difficult to control the spread because of their living conditions,” says a senior police official in the area requesting he not be named.Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) chief Swati Maliwal says that even though the present circumstances are peculiar, they have directed the Delhi police and NGOs to at least ensure that basic needs of women here are fulfilled.“According to the report we have received, food is not a problem there at present but the women there are definitely concerned about their income. These are peculiar circumstances, but we are doing everything in our power to ensure that they are taken care of,” Maliwal says.Despite the ordeal, these women are prepared to support the government in this time of crises. Women here say that when the entire nation stepped into their balconies on April 5 to light candles in a show of support, they also followed the call. “We all came to our balconies, clapped and sang to show our support for our government in their fight against this disease. I am hopeful that things will get better,” says one of the sex workers here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hiv-stigmatised-gb-road-sex-workers-stare-at-an-uncertain-future-amid-covid-pandemic/story-LzXgI2yjkgINzl7Iff6dlJ.html
30-04-2020||Gurugram||Antibody testing to begin in Gurugram from Thursday; Sector 39 and Jharsa first in line||The rapid antibody testing for the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease is likely to begin in Gurugram from Thursday. According to state officials, at least 25,000 rapid testing kits (RTK) procured earlier this week from a South Korean company based in Manesar, after the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) prohibited the use of Chinese kits, will be used across 22 districts in Haryana. About 1,500 kits have been provided to each hotspot district such as Gurugram, Nuh, Palwal and Faridabad.State health officials said that immediate rollout of antibody tests is crucial for surveillance of Sars-Cov-2 in hotspot districts. Of the 24 containment zones in Gurugram, the district health team will be starting the antibody tests in Sector 39 and Jharsa.Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health department, said, “Haryana will start antibody testing from Thursday to check Covid -19 clustering in hotspot districts and containment zones. The state will be using 25,000 kits procured from the South Korean company. Other states, too, are using kits procured from non-Chinese sources after the ICMR advisory on not to use Chinese RTKs. The Chinese kits are being returned, as communicated by the ICMR.”“Hotspots districts of Gurugram, Nuh, Palwal, and Faridabad are getting 1,500 kits each, while Panchkula will get 2,000 RTKs. Other affected districts such as Ambala, Rohtak and Sonepat will get 1,000 kits each. Also, 500 kits will be allocated to all medical colleges in the state,” he said.He further said that data on rapid tests is emerging and understanding of their utility for diagnosis is still evolving. “These kits will be primarily used in hotspot areas and in case there is no hotspot area in a district, it will be used to trace places which can emerge as hotspots. It is a useful surveillance tool in areas where cases have not emerged so far,” he said, adding that rapid tests cannot replace the frontline RT-PCR tests.According to the order issued by the health department Tuesday night, at least 21% of the kits allocated to a district will be used for frontline workers such as police staff, street vendors, sanitation staff of MCG, media professionals, newspaper vendors, employees of district administration and all health care workers on field and in government offices. Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer, said, “We have received RTKs and testing will start from Jharsa containment zone.” The health team is in a rush to identify people who came in contact with asymptomatic cases reported from the area last week. It includes four health care workers, out of the nine cases reported from the containment zone. Till now, 53 cases have been reported from Gurugram, including two health staff deployed at Sector 10 Civil Hospital tested positive on Wednesday.Antibody tests help in finding out whether a person has developed antibodies against Covid-19. A negative test does not prove that a person is free of disease. Health officials say it is likely that antibodies for Sars-Cov-2 are not present in a patient’s blood in the initial stages of the infection. The test is of utility after the incubation period of the coronavirus is over in five to seven days. It is also a useful tool to assess the prevalence of the disease within a specific area.In rapid tests, blood is collected by pricking the finger. Using micropipette, a minimal quantity of 10 microliter of the blood is taken and collected in the well of the cassette, which is the kit. A buffer solution is added to the blood. A coloured band appears on the top section of the kit, called the result window, to show whether the test is working, while in another section lower to it a coloured band will appear to show the test result.While using the new kits, the district health department will be following the previous guidelines prepared by PGIMS, Rohtak for antibody testing. According to the department, even if a suspected case with flu-like symptoms tests negative for antibodies, his/her swabs will be taken for RT-PCR test and the person will have to be isolated or quarantined for 10 days. Antibody tests will not be done on those having signs of Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) or on high-risk cases. Their samples will be directly collected for RT-PCR.Earlier on April 21, the Gurugram health department had tested at least 61 people, including 30 journalists, for Covid-19 using Chinese RTKs. Of the 10,000 kits given to Haryana by the central government, Gurugram received 750.Till now, 54 cases have been reported from Gurugram, including two health staff deployed at Sector 10 Civil Hospital and one at a private hospital tested positive on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/antibody-testing-to-begin-in-gurugram-from-thursday-sector-39-and-jharsa-first-in-line/story-D3hVdejHPIS7xkDwExfprJ.html
30-04-2020||Noida||Three persons arrested for creating ruckus at mosque in Greater Noida||The police on Wednesday arrested three persons for allegedly creating ruckus at a mosque and throwing out mats and other things in Bhanota village in Surajpur. The suspects were identified as Satish Singh, Dinesh Sharma, and Neeraj, residents of Bhanota village.The complainant, Sadin, said that there has been a mosque in the village since 2011. “We had bought a piece of land from a local in 1994 and donated it for the mosque. Locals later built the mosque and started offering prayers,” he said.The complainant said that on March 22, a group of locals, including the suspects, reached the mosque and asked his family members, who are custodians, to lock it due to the outbreak of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Sadin said that the mosque has been closed since then and no one has offered prayers there.However, on April 28, a group of 100 to 150 persons gathered at the mosque and forced the family to open the lock. “They threw out the mats and other things from the mosque and also videographed the incident. They also threatened the local Muslims with dire consequences and left,” he said in the complaint. The complainant said that the mob also violated lockdown norms by gathering in huge numbers and creating a ruckus.Chand Khan, a resident, said that there are around 100 Muslim families in the village and only one mosque. “We had built this mosque to offer prayers and educate our children. The premises have been locked for one month and there is no activity here. But a section of people does not want us to return to the mosque,” he said.Pradeep Tripathi, station house officer, Surajpur police station, said that based on the complaint, they registered a case against the suspects under Section 147 (rioting), Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), Section 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc), Section 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings), Section 504 (intentional insult), and Section 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.“The three suspects were arrested from their residences on Wednesday. During interrogation, they said that at the time of the land deal, the buyer had not stated that they would use the land for a mosque,” Tripathi said.The three suspects were produced before a magistrate and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-persons-arrested-for-creating-ruckus-at-mosque-in-greater-noida/story-7kZkhiURh1qNNe7bDv9fCL.html
30-04-2020||Noida||New born girl child found abandoned on roadside||A four-day-old new born girl child was found abandoned near the Parthala roundabout around 6pm Tuesday by a passerby after which she was handed over to the police and sent to a shelter home in Noida. As the police try and track her biological family, the child welfare committee is arranging for her to be taken to the adoption centre in Agra. “The infant was taken to a local hospital for check up with the help of a local woman; she was declared healthy. The child welfare committee was informed and she was handed over to them,” a police spokesperson said, adding that the child was rescued before any animal or vehicle could have injured her.Officials said that under normal circumstances, abandoned infants are kept under 24-hour medical supervision at the Child PGI hospital, but because it is currently sealed after coronavirus cases were detected the hospital, the baby was taken to a private hospital.“She was declared medically fit and sent to a shelter home. There doesn’t seem to be any sign of abuse or injury. Doctors say it looks like he child was delivered in an institution, which makes it easier for them to track down her family,” said Satya Prakash, programme manager of FXB India Suraksha, the NGO that manages the district childline.“We are already going through telecommunication information to see what unusual phones were active in the area at the time. We are also working on checking the records of several government and private hospitals where she may have been delivered. Once we trace her family, due legal action will be taken including registering a case” said Vrinda Shukla, deputy commissioner of police, women safety.Police also checked the CCTV cameras in the area though most of them remain dysfunctional.According to orders from the Child Welfare Committee, received Wednesday, the infant will be taken to the adoption centre in Mathura. This is the 33rd case of a new born being abandoned in the district since 2011, when the childline was created.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/new-born-girl-child-found-abandoned-on-roadside/story-J9WKTqZr5yR8j9yiLPuU4H.html
30-04-2020||Noida||Man arrested for assaulting another with a shaving blade||A 38-year-old man was arrested by the Noida police Wednesday for allegedly assaulting an acquaintance with a shaving blade. The cause of the attack is unclear, police said.The victim was identified as Vijay Singh (20), a resident of Sector 12, while the suspect was identified as Krishna Yadav, a resident of Sector 8. “We got a call on the police helpline that a man had been attacked with a blade after which a team was rushed to the spot. Singh was taken to a nearby hospital for treatment of his injuries and he was later discharged,” Rameshwar Kumar, station house officer, Sector 24 police station, said.Yadav had allegedly attacked the victim and slashed his neck with the blade and after Singh raised the alarm, Yadav was caught by passersby and later handed over to the police.“The injuries were not very severe. However, the cause of the attack is unclear. There does not seem to be any provocation There are no financial disputes between the two -- they had known each other from some time as they worked in the same company. We have asked both parties, but no reason has come up for the attack,” the SHO said.Police said Yadav might be mentally challenged. Based on the complaint of Singh’s father, a case of attempt to murder (Section 307) of the Indian Penal Code was filed against Yadav.The blade was recovered while the suspect was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-arrested-for-assaulting-another-with-a-shaving-blade/story-1PMSjRQWU1AM7KLFoUI64M.html
30-04-2020||Noida||Three more Covid-19 patients in GB Nagar, total reaches 137||The Covid-19 count in the district reached 137, with three new cases identified on Wednesday, including two more from a slum colony in Noida’s Sector 8.So far, 17 people from the JJ colony have tested positive for the contagious coronavirus disease. The two who tested positive from the colony on Wednesday include two women — a 52-year-old and a 23-year-old. Health department officials said the sources of their infections was still unclear.Since April 8, officials have shifted hundreds of people from slums in sectors 8 and 5 to government quarantine centres as a precautionary measure, after four persons — one of whom was linked to fire safety solutions firm Ceasefire — tested positive for the coronavirus disease in the Sector 5 JJ colony.Officials fear community transmission in areas where there are no resident welfare associations, and where social distancing is not possible because of high population density.“All possible measures have been taken in sectors 8 and 5 to contain the spread of the disease and avoid community spread,” a senior district health official said.The third patient who tested positive on Wednesday is a 35-year-old man from Noida’s Sector 122, who works as an electrician with a local news channel. Officials said they were in the process of tracing the man’s contacts, and were trying to ascertain if he was in touch with any other media personnel. The district health department has also been forced to emphasise that non-Covid patients need to be given appropriate medical attention, amid reports that non-Covid designated hospitals have turned away patients.The district administration has asked the director of the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) has been asked to train and encourage medical and paramedical staff of all Covid and non-Covid hospitals to open themselves up for patients.“We held an online session on Wednesday morning with various hospitals to encourage them to open up during this crisis. Regular patients also need to be treated, and hospitals have to function for that to happen. In the session, we told hospital authorities about the precautions, they need to take while tackling Covid-19 suspects. If precautions are taken properly then this situation can be handled without making regular patients suffer,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, director, GIMS.As of Wednesday evening, the health department had taken note of 2,161 people who had travelled to Gautam Budh Nagar from districts, cities, states or countries. Officials had also collected total of 3561 samples.Of the 137 Covid-19 cases in the district, 81 patients have been discharged, and 56 are being treated. Another 796 people in Gautam Budh Nagar are under institutional quarantine.On Wednesday, around 10 medical staff of the district hospital in Sector 39 protested outside the office of district magistrate in Sector 27 to complain against the chief medical superintendent for not providing them personal protection kits. They said they are being forced to enter the Covid-19 wards with just masks and gloves.“I have met the staff of the district hospital, they are our corona warriors and all their demands will be met. We have asked the CMS to provide them PPE kits. They have also demanded some raise in their salaries which will also be taken care of,” Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/three-more-covid-19-patients-in-gb-nagar-total-reaches-137/story-nVMu6gs1JvsTkctUhpQO4J.html
30-04-2020||Noida||Covid-19 lockdown: Noida police chief takes stock of security arrangement at check posts||Gautam Budh Nagar police commissioner Alok Singh Tuesday evening conducted a surprise inspection of security arrangements at check posts at Chilla border and Badalpur.Asking the policemen deployed at those check posts to conduct strict checking of all vehicles moving in and out, the police chief also urged them to take care of their own safety. “You are the real warriors of Noida police. Always wear masks and gloves and use sanitisers before coming in contact with a paper or vehicle. You need to keep your morale high at all times, while working in this time of crisis,” he said.Singh also served bottles of fruit juice to the Noida personnel and their Delhi counterparts deployed on the other side of the border. He also took stock of security arrangements at different check posts and barriers made in the localities of Khoda colony and Model Town, which are located near the Noida-Ghaziabad border.On Monday evening, Singh, along with Greater Noida’s chief executive officer Narendra Bhushan, conducted a surprise inspection of the quarantine centres at the new building of the district hospital in Sector 39 and in Galgotias University. Both officers reviewed their preparedness to check the spread of Covid-19, as well as the cleanliness, security and quality of food served at these centres. They also interacted with the people in quarantine there and took their feedback on several issues.Instructing officials on duty to speedily redress inmates’ problems, Singh said officials must ensure all arrangements as per standard operating protocol (SOP). “No laxity in ensuring timely availability of adequate safety equipment, visors, PPE kits, sanitisers and masks in the quarantine centres, will be tolerated. CCTV cameras should immediately be installed at these places,” he said.Later, Singh and Bhooshan also inspected the hot spot area in Salarpur village and gave necessary instructions to the officials deployed there, for ensuring uninterrupted supply of essential items such as milk, fruits, vegetables, medicines and ration and maintaining good hygiene. Singh assured the people that they will not have to face any problem in getting essential items. He appealed to the people to stay indoors and strictly follow the lockdown rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-police-chief-takes-stock-of-security-arrangement-at-different-check-posts/story-v0IitRqFQRUG4KjVAIoA4H.html
30-04-2020||Pune||IMD issues thunderstorm warning for Pune||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued thunderstorm warnings for areas across Maharashtra, including Pune, north Konkan, south Konkan, north central Maharashtra, south central Maharashtra and Marathwada. According to an IMD official, all these areas will witness thunderstorms accompanied with lightning and gusty winds. “Wind speeds will be reaching 30 -40 kilometers per hour in districts of Raigad, Pune, Solapur, Sangli, Ahmednagar, Kolhapur, Beed, Parbhani, Hingoli, Latur, Nanded and Osmanabad,” an IMD official said.Pune witnessed cloudy skies on Wednesday afternoon with very light to light rain showers, thunder activity and gusty winds. The temperature was at a maximum of 40 degrees Celsius whereas the minimum was at 24.4 degrees Celsius. The warning issued on Wednesday states that these areas will witness thunderstorms until May 1 due to cyclonic circulation over Malacca Strait, North Sumatra and neighbourhood areas in the west-northwestward direction.According to IMD, under its influence, a low pressure area is very likely to form over south Andaman Sea and neighbourhood areas during the next 48 hours. It is very likely to become more concentrate into a depression during the subsequent 48 hours and is likely to intensify further.The storm will move north-northwestwards initially and then north-northeastwards towards Myanmar - Bangladesh coasts between May 1 and May 3. There will be a cyclonic circulation over east central Arabian Sea off south Maharashtra coast which will persist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/imd-issues-thunderstorm-warning-for-pune/story-hgGfK9YbcFewdPCkXOJi3N.html
30-04-2020||Pune||Poona District Table Tennis Association hopeful of on schedule season despite Covid-19 threat||The Poona District Table Tennis Association (PDTTA) is hopeful for an on-schedule start of the 2020 season in June this year.Rajeev Bodas, president of PDTTA said most local tournaments in the city are scheduled in the beginning of the season which starts in June.“I hope it will be a normal start for us and the season will continue as per the schedule,” Bodas added.The association will follow government directions on allowing district players to travel to the city.“We need to wait and watch,” Bodas said on conducting district ranking tournaments.The International Table Tennis Federation (ITTF) – world governing body of the game has postponed international tournaments which spiraled a number of problems for Indian athletes.“There was a world championship scheduled for the veterans in France, many players had to cancel their tickets and hotel bookings. There are questions on whether the athletes will receive a refund. It is a tough time for sports,” he said.Annually, in the month of May, the association conducts a number of table tennis summer camps. PDTTA had planned to bring a top coach to the city next month.“PDTTA had put in a request to the Table Tennis Federation of India (TTFI) to provide us with a coach but now it won’t be possible,” Bodas said.Most coaches in the city are currently busy with online tutorials and digital fitness meetings.“All athletes are continuing practice in whatever way they can. Coaches are conducting fitness sessions online. Many players are engaging in shadow practice which keeps them in touch with sports. There are many coaches in the city as well, who are conducting one on one session with the players,” added Bodas.Current role of PDTTAThe association has advised players to keep themselves busy with sports in innovative ways.“In a normal routine, players don’t get much time for yoga sessions or reading books about the technicality of the games. Reading about sports and understanding the game also helps one to become a better paddler. This is the right time to explore the other side of sports which will improve their game,” Bodas said.The association has advised athletes to focus on weak points and overcome them via social video conferencing or by availing a digital consultation with the coaches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pdtta-hopeful-of-on-schedule-season-despite-covid-19-threat/story-dQeLSleYCUCGbgDIDoYlEK.html
30-04-2020||Pune||Batteries from parked ST buses stolen at Wakdewadi in Pune||Two batteries from state transport buses parked in Wakdewadi in Shivajinagar were stolen by unidentified bike-borne men on Monday.The incident came to light when Anil Bhise, the manager of the new state bus stop lodged a complaint with the city police.The state buses were parked at the Wakdewadi bus stop on April 24, 2020 due to the ongoing lockdown and restrictions on movement.The police have acquired CCTV footage of two motorcyclists who are considered probable suspects in the theft.The collective worth of two batteries that were stolen is Rs 10,000.A case under section 379 (punishment for theft) of Indian Penal Code was registered at the Khadki police station against two unidentified motorcyclists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/batteries-from-parked-st-buses-stolen-in-wakdewadi/story-LJfh9fqsFPs6ukaRrQbYEP.html
30-04-2020||Pune||Labourers work with minimum safety gear, travel to work from containment zones sans ID cards||As Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has undertaken pre-monsoon work in the city a group of labourers was found cleaning the stormwater lines, near Sadhu Vaswani chowk with minimum safety gear on Tuesday afternoon amid the Covid-19 (coronavirus) pandemic caused due to sars-Cov-2 virus. These workers also commute from containment zones to the work area without any identity cards, according to the supervisor Rajendra Waghmare.The pre-monsoon work includes clearing drainage and storm-water lines, repair of culverts and rebuilding fencing walls near nallahs.HT reporter found that the men were working with masks or handkerchiefs which covered their face.Datta Manwatkar, 25, one of the labourers, who lives in Yashwantnagar, Yerawada, with his wife and is a native of Sultanpur Buldhana, said, “We have these gumboots and these gloves that are given to us, but it is very difficult to work in these as they are oversized. Going down this duct, if we hit the water, these boots are of no help.”When asked about safety measures prescribed to them, their supervisor Waghmare, said, “We have been given sanitizers and soap to wash hands before lunch.”Vijay Shinde, superintending engineer, road department, PMC, said, “This is the process of stormwater clearing. They simply clear the debris that may be stuck in these lines to allow rainwater to flow. It is the annual rain work. In this condition, only social distancing is an option and they have been instructed about it. This work needs to be done.”Shinde also agreed that the use of gloves is not an option for this work. The work requires them to enter two to four feet deep stormwater lines and clear the debris or garbage if any.Waghmare is a resident of Lakshminagar area of Yerawada which contains several micro-clusters identified by Pune police for having over five positive Covid-19 cases. Yashwantnagar is located close to Lakshminagar.When asked about the difficulty in entering and leaving the containment zone in the area where the labourers and Waghmare come from, Waghmare says, “We work in the essential services. This works needs to be completed.” However, none of the workers have identity cards to that effect, he added.For the past five days, they have cleaned silt and potential blockages in sewage lines near Naidu hospital, a hub for Covid-19 treatment in the city, regional transport office (RTO), Jehangir hospital road, and the stretch between ZP chowk and Pune railway station, according to Waghmare.The Pune civic body this year has undertaken pre-monsoon work on a large scale given the September last year’s flash floods that killed 26 and caused massive damage to properties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/labourers-work-with-minimum-safety-gear-travel-to-work-from-containment-zones-sans-id-cards/story-NUKcptWzopPEIpJiIecYML.html
30-04-2020||Pune||Family of four from Baramati recovers from Covid-19||When the first 14-day post-incubation test for 30-year old Sameer Bagwan’s family came negative last week, everyone’ faces lit up with joy at Pune’s Civil Hospital at Aundh.Sameer’s 26-year-old wife Samina, his two daughters aged eight and one, and his brother Jameer, were soon shifted to another ward. With the second report coming negative, they were finally discharged and given a heartfelt send-off by the hospital staff.When they reached home in Samarath Nagar, Baramati, there was another surprise waiting for them. “We were overwhelmed by the welcome we received from our neighbours,” said Jameer. Fire crackers were lit, people in their lane clapped to welcome them and “they even showered flowers on the ambulance in which we came,” he said.Hailing from a family of fruits and vegetables sellers in Baramati, it all began when Sameer’s 60-year-old father, Majjid Bagwan, developed fever and cough in early April and was taken to a local hospital for check-up. He was soon moved to the Baramati Government Hospital where the doctors said he had symptoms of pneumonia and advised the family to move him to the Dr. Naidu Infectious Diseases Hospital in Pune.This is where the senior Bagwan tested positive and the health authorities immediately instructed the entire family to get tested and go into isolation.“Soon, I along with my mother, wife, elder son and two daughters reached Pune for testing. Along with my brother we underwent the swab tests and on April 7 we were informed that my brother, wife and our two daughters had tested positive. The rest of us had tested negative and so we were discharged,” said Sameer.On April 9, the Bagwans lost their father who had turned critical at Sassoon Hospital. Since most family members were in quarantine at the hospital, the immediate family members could not attend the funeral and the last rites were done by relatives from Pune.“Till their discharge from the hospital, I did not inform my family members about my father’s demise as it would have caused immense grief in the hospital,” said Sameer. It was only when they returned home in Baramati that they were informed, he said.Jameer said the only thing that worried him most was the positive status of his nieces. He was extremely happy with the good care from the doctors, nurses and the cleaning staff at the Aundh Civil Hospital during their 14 days stay there. “They treated us well and we cannot complain about anything,” he said.Sameer’s wife said all the needs of the children were met, right from warm milk to special baby food, diapers and other things. “We would woke up at around 6 am, say our prayers and would then get our tea at 8 and milk for the baby. Breakfast would comprise eggs, shegdana ladoos (nutritious peanuts snack) , milk, poha or Idli . The lunch and dinner arrangements were also very good,” she said.The doctors would come two to three times a day for check-up while the nurses would be around throughout the day. “They were very friendly and kept us in high spirits, giving us moral support to fight the disease. A nurse would come almost every hour to ask if the baby needed something,” she said. The hospital staff even gave their own mobile phone to the family members to enable them to keep in touch with their relatives.Now at home, the Bagwans have been advised home quarantine for 14 days, after which they are hopeful that life will once again become normal for them.“This Covid-19 experience has taught us a lesson of a lifetime: If you are strong mentally, you can win any battle in life,” said Jameer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lesson-learnt-if-you-are-strong-mentally-you-can-win-any-battle-in-life/story-rLCEyYPlrqiN9OrDTQsIoK.html
30-04-2020||Pune||Covid-19 positive pregnant women get dedicated hospitals in Pune||Chandumama Sonawane Hospital in Pune has been declared as a dedicated hospital for Covid-19 positive pregnant women, said the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Wednesday. Chandumama Sonawane Hospital is run by the PMC in Kashewadi area and will have 80 beds for Covid-19 pregnant women patients while talks are going on with private hospitals for more such facilities. “Similarly talks are currently underway with another private maternity hospital in Pune with a capacity of 50 beds. The process of making necessary arrangements to treat patients at these hospitals is going on and within the next couple of days Sonawane Hospital will be functional,” said PMC’s assistant health chief Dr Sanjeev Wavare. The decision was taken after a 25-year-old pregnant woman was tested positive in the city on April 16. Later on April 20, she gave birth to a healthy baby boy and was not infected by the disease. However, looking at the increasing number of positive patients and also the large number of pregnant women in Pune, these dedicated maternity hospitals for Covid-19 positive pregnant patients have been started. “If our agreement with more private hospitals is finalised, then this number will increase and pregnant women who test positive for Covid-19, will be treated at these hospitals with extra care,” added Dr Wavare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-positive-pregnant-women-get-2-dedicated-hospitals-in-pune/story-LZIVNveNnhX0OP2T8MmKmM.html
30-04-2020||Pune||On the frontline: People need to stay at home for the lockdown to work effectively, says Charnjit Singh Sahni||Charnjit Singh Sahni is the president of Gurudwara Guru Nanak Darbar in Camp, who believes in being of service to humanity. Although he is a businessman in the solar industry, the 63-year-old has left the business to his children while he devotes his time to social work and the gurudwara. What exactly is your role during this crisis?In our religion, we are taught the mantra - Garib ka Muh, Guru ki golak hai” (no one should sleep hungry and feeding the needy is equivalent to giving a donation to the gurudwara) - so, ever since the lockdown started, we decided to reach out to the maximum number of people with the basic need for food. Through our Guru Nanak Medical Foundation, which is run from the gurudwara premises, we started giving medical services through our trustee Dr Dashmeet Singh’s consultation. Then, we started receiving demands from various hospitals and people staying nearby the gurudwara. We first got a requirement from the Army Hospital for ventilators for the new hospital they were setting up for Covid-19 patients in Wanowrie, so we decided to give them four ventilators. Then, we have also given sanitizers, masks, face shields to the needy too. After demands from the Pune Cantonment Board police stations, we have donated hand wash units. We also got a demand from the Sassoon hospital for oxymeters and within a day, we arranged 100 oxymeters and gave it to the dean. Personal protective equipment (PPE) kits are in demand and we gave 100 to the Army hospital, 50 to the Muslim Popular Front group, an NGO authorised by PMC to arrange funerals, 50 PPEs to Family Planning Association of India who are working with AIDS patients and 50 to the Indian Medical Association. We will soon be giving ICU monitors to Sassoon hospital. How does your day begin and roll out?I wake up by 5am, begin my prayers and do some yoga and if possible walk within my society, then post 8am, begins all the coordination for making chappattis. Then by 10:30 am, I coordinate with the distribution team and attend to the daily calls of demands from hospitals, NGOs and the needy people. We also hold online conferences with the medical team for approvals and then for the final nod with the management team. By 10pm, I usually spend time with my family. What precautions are you taking?We do not go out, we manage everything from home. We follow the rules and only in case of emergency do we go out, wearing masks, gloves and maintain social distance. What is your assessment of the Covid-19 crisis n Pune? How is it unfolding?Pune is managing it very well on the field and trying their level best to control it, but we feel that there is a need for a stronger appeal to people to follow and cooperate with the government’s decision and stay at home to make this lockdown work better and learn to live with whatever is at home. What gaps do you see in healthcare and relief work?This pandemic was so sudden for the city that no one is prepared for it and however, the administration and the hospitals are working on a war footing to control the spread. The frontline doctors and paramedical staff’s safety should be our priority as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/on-the-frontline-people-need-to-stay-at-home-for-the-lockdown-to-work-effectively-says-charnjit-singh-sahni/story-FqQ0lNE03xwMutkX496AYL.html
30-04-2020||Pune||Shelter homes made for red containment zones in Pune fail to attract temporary residents||Though the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has created 70 temporary shelters in schools for the most congested high Covid-19 prone ‘red containment zones’ of Bhavani peth, Dhole Patil road and Kasba-Vishrambaugwada, slum dwellers and others in small, congested tenements are unwilling to move there. In some areas, even the residents living around these dedicated schools have opposed these shelter homes for shifting people from red zone areas.Congress Avinash Bagwe from Bhavani peth area said,“People are not ready to move for various reasons. There is no food facility and for every small thing they need to return home which would not be allowed by the police. People are saying that those who are Covid-19 positive and under quarantine are not getting good facilities. Then, why should we leave our homes? They are worried that their belongings and utensils might get stolen from their homes if they move out.”With the Covid-19 positive cases maximising in five wards in the city, namely- Kasba peth, Vishrambaugwada, Bhavani peth, Dhole Patil road and Shivajinagar- Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad had decided to convert 70 schools into the temporary shelters.Even though the shifting to these centres was to be voluntary, some sections of the media and social media created panic by reporting that some 70,000 families from the crowed areas would be shifted to the temporary shelters.Gaikwad said, “We made the temporary arrangement of the shelter homes. In many homes people are living in small houses which is not more than 100 to 150 square feet. During the lockdown, it is not possible to stay in small homes where more positive cases are emerging. So, we appealed to the people to stay in temporary shelters and PMC would provide toilet and water facility. It is voluntary and not mandatory that each citizen gets shifted.”Dhole Patil road ward officer Dayanand Sonkamble said, “We kept six schools ready and cleaned all the class rooms. We appeal to the people to come and stay here.”Congress corporator Arvind Shinde who is representing Dhole Patil road and Tadiwala slum areas said, “It is wrong planning to make temporary shelters. People live in small groups at home, but the government machinery is asking them to come and stay inside these schools with 30-40 other people. Sending people there without any screening is wrong.”One of the ward officers on condition of anonymity said, “We got many messages from the residents living around schools who were opposed to the shifting of the citizens from crowded areas to these schools as they are worried that it would spread the infection in their areas as well.”Another PMC officer on the condition of anonymity said that it is true that there is less response to the temporary shelters as people do not want to leave their homes. “PMC is only providing a place to stay, for tea, snacks and food they have to again go home. It is not possible to create a food facility for such a large number of people at the schools every day,” he added.Avinash Bagwe who is an elected member of the PMC said, “The schools are located at least a kilometre away from the homes of the residents, they have to walk back and forth for food, among other things. Hence, residents do not want to shift.”Pune Municipal Corporation issued a press statement and said that only 43 citizens on Tuesday night shifted from Sadashiv peth and Navi peth to the Dharmaveer Sambhaji School on Tuesday evening and stayed at night . This school is located near Navi peth.Resident Dilip Patole living in Bhavani peth area said, “Earlier, our impression was that the government would shift us forcefully. When we got more information, we came to know that the administration is only providing a place to stay and there is no food and bed arrangement. It means that we have two options- one to shift our utensils and cook there, which is not possible and second option is to go there and rest but come home for daily needs like tea, and food. Both the options are not practical and hence, we preferred to stay at our homes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-s-new-shelter-homes-for-red-containment-zones-fail-to-take-off/story-FWQZvu6GFGLqZPfbS42LlK.html
30-04-2020||Delhi||Covid Kavach vehicles to help cops drive into congested containment zones||To keep their personnel safe, while at the same time being able to enter the congested containment zones under their jurisdiction, the south-east police Wednesday launched eight fully covered e-rickshaws, called ‘Covid Kavach’. With 17 containment zones, south-east is among the districts in the national capital most badly hit by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “We realised that there was a lack of communication between the police and the public in these zones,” said RP Meena, deputy commissioner of police (south-east). “Some of these areas are thickly populated and it was difficult to keep an eye on the public who would come out of their homes without a valid reason,” Meena said. As a matter of practice, too, the police have generally been keeping themselves to the periphery of the containment zones, dressed in personal protection equipments and going in only to accompany officials or to sometimes provide essential items to residents. The DCP said the ‘Covid Kavach’ will solve this problem. “These hired vehicles are fully covered and will have a driver and two policemen -- all covered from head to toe in PPEs,” the DCP said. These officers in e-rickshaws will be able to visit the congested areas which were previously inaccessible to regular police vehicles. “The policemen will keep a watch on those leaving homes without a reason, will help those who need essential goods and make announcements. All this will happen while ensuring that the policemen are not at risk of infection,” Meena said.For now, these ‘Covid Kavach’ vehicles are being deployed in containment zones located in Jaitpur, Kalindi Kunj, Jamia Nagar, Sarita Vihar, Shaheen Bagh and Nizamuddin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-kavach-vehicles-to-help-cops-drive-into-congested-containment-zones/story-f5P9U4efxVow6DwhC484pM.html
30-04-2020||City||Three Punjab universities may hold final-year exams in July||The Punjab higher education department has advised that examinations of all final year (exit) classes be held in July if the lockdown is lifted.In a video-conference on Wednesday, the vice-chancellors and controllers of exams of Panjab University, Chandigarh; Punjabi University, Patiala; and Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, and state government officials discussed policies regarding examinations and admissions for the next session in universities and colleges of the state.The 10-page report of a UGC panel and Covid exit strategy of Punjab state was tabled in the meeting for discussion.Rahul Bhandari, secretary of higher education and languages, Punjab, said, “In the meeting, it was discussed that examination of final-year students could be conducted between July 1 to 15 if the lockdown is lifted.”“After the lockdown is lifted, all universities will hold 15 to 20-day classes and thereafter conduct their examinations. The plan is to hold a two-hour exam with more choices for students,” said Bhandari.This was the second such meeting since the department of higher education and languages of Punjab government wrote to the three universities seeking their suggestions about exams.PU’s controller of examinations, Parvinder Singh, who was also in the meeting, said, “All vice -chancellors agreed with decisions taken in the meeting. It was also discussed that the next session should begin in September. Requisite arrangements will be made once exam dates are notified.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-varsities-may-hold-final-year-exams-in-july/story-nSVymzjz90hd8EoFJBkorO.html
30-04-2020||Pune||PMC starts cleaning community toilets in Pune slum areas four times a day to prevent Covid-19 spread||After the Centre flagged that use of community toilets in slums as one of the factors leading to the spike in Covid-19 cases in the state during a press conference on April 24, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has undertaken a drive to clean these places four times a day. Of the total Covid-19 positive cases reported from Pune, over 60 per cent have been recorded from slums, as indicated in the statistics shared by the municipal administration. Last week during its visit to Maharashtra, the central government’s team had visited these sums in Mumbai and Pune. In his briefing, joint secretary with the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), Punya Srivastava, said, “The team found that the use of community toilets leaves residents to defy the lockdown and step out of their homes.” The Centre had also advised to install portable toilets to reduce the use of community toilets in slum areas.Taking cognisance, Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad issued a circular on Wednesday with instructions to clean public toilets at least four times in a day, which earlier used to be cleaned only once a day.According to former deputy mayor and a practising doctor Siddharth Dhende, public toilets in Pune’s slums have been a real hotspot for spreading the coronavirus. “Almost 42 per cent of the city’s population is living in slums where many residents do not have toilets in their homes and need to relay on public toilets. The PMC has to seriously consider toilets as a source of spread of the infection in order to improve the situation,” said Dhende.Assistant medical officer Vaishali Jadhav who is incharge for contact tracing and conducting the door-to-door survey in the city, said, “It is found that many people in slum areas are using common toilets. Our medical teams suspect that it is one of the reasons for the spread of the virus. Hence, the municipal administration has now started cleaning the public toilets four times a day.”Avinash Bagwe, who represents Bhavani peth area where there are slums and a large number of Covid-19 patients (263 cases till April 28), said, “It is true that the public toilets is a place where residents gather. Police can’t take action there as residents are standing in queue to use the toilets.”Dhole Patil ward office’s ward officer Dayanand Sonkamble said, “With the number of patients increasing, we have started cleaning the public toilets four times a day and even spray disinfectants around the public toilet.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-starts-cleaning-community-toilets-in-slum-areas-four-times-a-day-to-prevent-covid-19-spread/story-7f12QDoor4pvD6GOhZE21M.html
30-04-2020||Pune||Air ambulance lifts Pune patient to Jaipur for emergency surgery||PUNE: An air ambulance was arranged to transport a 46-year-old software engineer needing emergency surgery for a malignant skull base tumour, from Pune to Jaipur on Tuesday morning.According to surgeon and director of CitiCare Hospital Dr Arvind Patil, the surgery was performed on Wednesday afternoon on the patient whose tumour had become progressive in nature and begun penetrating into his eye ball and brain.“Signs of further complications like bleeding through nose and proptosis of the eyeball were visible in the patient. It was necessary to intervene surgically immediately otherwise it would have led to life-threatening complications,” said Dr Patil.The condition was only treatable by an endoscopic surgery and the most experienced surgeon in India Dr Satish Jain practices in Jaipur, according to Patil.He said that since Dr Jain could not come to Pune due to the lockdown, in a final attempt, the doctors at CitiCare Hospital contacted Dr Nirmalkumar Rakshe, managing director of UnM LifeCare, which provides emergency medical services in four states for road mishap rescue.“Rakshe saw the patient and helped me to contact International Critical Care Air Transfer Team (ICATT) and arranged an air ambulance for the patient with necessary permission,” Dr Patil said.Dr Rakshe said that seeking permission for the air transport of the patient wasn’t easy and assistance from Satara Member of Parliament Shrinivas Patil and Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham helped.Finally, the patient was airlifted in a private plane.Dr Patil said, “The surgery was successful and the condition of the patient is stable. It was a very complicated disease that extended to the brain and eyeball and exposed frontal lobe of brain.”The surgery held at afternoon went on for an hour, the doctor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/air-ambulance-lifts-pune-patient-to-jaipur-for-emergency-surgery/story-Zml0uhMV5JP01Z2bAR8qwO.html
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||5 Nanded pilgrims test positive for Covid-19 in Mohali; Jawaharpur adds 3 more||With eight fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, Mohali district’s tally went up to 73. Five patients had returned from Hazur Sahib in Nanded, Maharashtra, while three are from district’s hotspot Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi. A 45-year-old woman, from Naraingarh in Haryana, who had undertaken the pilgrimage and landed in Mohali, also tested positive.Two male pilgrims, both aged 55, are residents of Premgarh village in Aerocity, while three women, aged 28, 43 and 46, are from Tiwana village in Dera Bassi block, Rani Majra in Majri block of Kharar and Mauli in Sector 80, respectively. They all returned from Hazur Sahib on Tuesday and were quarantined at the Government School for the Meritorious in Sector 70, Mohali.In Jawaharpur village of Dera Bassi, a 43-year-old woman and her 15-year-old daughter tested positive for Covid-19. They come from the family of the woman sarpanch who had tested positive for coronavirus on April 7. The third person from the village who tested positive on Wednesday is a 31-year-old man.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said all those infected have been shifted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. “Reports of 24 people are still awaited,” he said.Jawaharpur village, which was declared a containment zone, now has 43 Covid-19 cases of which 17 have recovered.Mohali now has 41 active cases out of the 73 cases reported so far. Thirty patients have recovered and two have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/8-new-corona-cases-in-chandigarh-take-total-count-to-67-in-ut/story-900XB34an1nux8ocblkoRO.html
30-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt launches dedicated website for Covid-19 updates||The Delhi government on Tuesday launched a website for all Covid-19 related updates and information, the government said in a press statement.The website — DelhiFightsCorona.in — would act as a single-window with detailed lists and geo-locations of containment zones, testing facilities, ration shops, temporary relief centres and hunger relief centres of the Delhi government, the statement said.The website would also have a daily tracker of the number of Covid-19 cases and the testing statistics of the Capital. It would have special windows to help people apply for free meal passes and e-passes for movement during the lockdown. It would also have detailed sections dedicated to frequently asked questions (FAQ) and all government press releases, the statement said.“The containment zones section has the locations of all the red zones or the hot spots of Covid-19 in Delhi. The locations are updated from time to time as decided by the government. This section also has a brief description of the Operation SHIELD, a unique initiative by the Delhi government under the direct supervision of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, to tackle the spread of Covid-19 in the containment zones,” a senior government official said.SHIELD translates to sealing, home quarantine, isolation, essentials’ services ensured, local sanitisation and door-to-door health surveys.“The testing facility section of the website has a list of Covid-19 testing centres set up by the Delhi government as well as private centres, and information on how to avail of Covid testing. Any person interested to know the location of the centre will have to click on the name of the centre and the location will be shown in Google Maps,” the statement said.The statement read, “The key locations section of the website has the list and location of all the ration shops in Delhi, temporary relief centres and hunger relief centres. In the ration shop section, there is a list of over 2,000 ration shops which can also be searched constituency-wise. There is also Google Map locations available for the individual ration shops. In the section for the temporary relief centres, there is a list of 62 such centres along with their locations. Similarly, for the hunger relief centres, there is a different section where people can get the full list of these centres along with the individual locations.” “Any person can apply for travel e-pass or e-coupon for ration through this website. In this section, any person can also check the e-pass or e-coupon status if already applied,” the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/govt-launches-dedicated-website-for-covid-updates/story-zQbZxcbF1qFtwDvLYuf0cP.html
30-04-2020||Delhi||11 Covid-19 cases linked to Azadpur market, test results of 100 awaited||At least 11 cases of Covid-19 have so far been linked to the Azadpur agriculture market in Delhi and more than 25 traders and their employees have been quarantined after being traced as contacts of the 11 cases.Test results of more than 100 individuals—traders and employees—who have been traced as contacts of the confirmed cases or those who have been shortlisted after a screening programme this weekend are still awaited, office bearers of the agriculture produce market committee (APMC) said. A large number of registered shops in Delhi’s Azadpur market—the Capital’s lifeline for supply for fruits and vegetables—remained closed on Tuesday, with groups of traders raising concerns over the transmission of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Anil Malhotra, a trader and elected member of the committee that runs the Azadpur market said, “Traders are concerned. Most of them are demanding that all traders and employees in the market be tested. Others are demanding that the market be moved to some other location in parts and the current market premises be turned into a containment zone.”The Azadpur market has around 2,800 registered shops and traders employ around 12,000 individuals in different roles—from porters to accountants. On a regular day, the market witnesses a footfall of more than 100,000 and the arrival of at least 3,000 trucks.District magistrate (north) Deepak Shinde said that the market premises are under strict surveillance and the district administration ensures that social distancing and other protocols are followed.Officials in Azadpur APMC maintain that the market continues to operate round the clock—a decision which was implemented last week in the light of supply disruption leading to a rise in the prices of fruits and vegetables in the city in the middle of the ongoing nationwide lockdown.“I cannot comment on individual shops. But all the sheds in the market were functional. Supply is steady. The market is periodically sanitised with disinfectants. More than 600 sanitation workers and 900 civil defence volunteers have been deployed,” Adil Khan, the chairperson of the Azadpur APMC, said.When asked about photographs and videos of deserted sheds in Azadpur market that have been doing the rounds on social media, Khan said, “To ensure social distancing, a system of 200 coupons per hour has been introduced for trucks, no vehicle is allowed to be parked inside the market for long hours, retail traders are also given access on a staggered basis and are asked to leave the market once the transaction is over. So, those photos and videos do not depict the accurate picture.”The 11 confirmed cases so far—of which one led to a death last week—are spread across four neighbouring blocks, records shared by the APMC showed. It further showed that shops in the vicinity of five of them have been sealed. The others have not been sealed because the patients had stopped coming to the market much before they were tested positive and quarantined, a senior office-bearer of the APMC said.SPREAD IN OTHER MARKETSA trader in Naya Bazar in Anaj Mandi area of the central district on Tuesday tested positive for the coronavirus disease. According to district administration officials, the patient sells foodgrain and had a shop in the area.Nidhi Srivastava, DM (central), said that as a precautionary measure, a contact tracing exercise would soon start in Naya Bazar market.“The person lives in Pitampura and his shop was not opened for the last 15 days. Today (Tuesday), he tested positive. We will get contact tracing done soon,” Srivastava said.She added that the number of people to be quarantined would be known only after contact tracing is done.Meanwhile, the traders of the Naya Bazar market have raised an alarm to ensure safety while working.Sunil Kumar Garg, general secretary Delhi Grain Merchants Association, said that necessary directions on maintaining social distancing in shops have been issued to the shop owners and managers. He said that at one time not more than two people would be allowed in the shop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/11-cases-linked-to-azadpur-market-test-results-of-100-awaited/story-ngI6VMyG9VzwCCxb4BpUuI.html
