01-04-2020||Bathinda||Ex-councillor booked for violating curfew||The police have booked a former SAD councillor, Gurmeet Kaur, for violating the curfew orders as she roamed out of her house without a pass.According to a complaint lodged by Constable Bhola Singh, she roamed in her area without any curfew pass or permission and violated Section 144 of the IPC.SSP Dr Nanak Singh said a case had been registered against her as she was roaming with 10 to 15 women in her area without any pass or permission. He said strict action would be taken against the violators.It is learnt that on Monday, she had alleged poor distribution of ration in her ward. Earlier, former SAD councillor Harjinder Shinda was also booked for spreading rumours on social media regarding relaxation in the curfew. The Maur police have also booked four persons for defying the curfew orders. The suspects have been identified as Harinder Kumar of Mansa, Palwinder Singh and Pargat Singh of Burj Mansa and Vicky of Sandoha.A case under Sections 188 and 270 of the IPC has been registered against them. However, they have been released on bail. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/ex-councillor-booked-for-violating-curfew-63976
01-04-2020||---||IMA offers to provide ventilators for isolation centres||Bathinda, March 31The local unit of the IMA has offered ventilators and services of doctors from private hospitals to meet any emergency related to Covid-19.“In a letter to the Civil Surgeon, the IMA Bathinda unit has provided a list of eight hospitals which will provide ventilators for isolation centres established for Covid patients,” said Dr Vikas Chhabra, president, IMA Bathinda.Chhabra Hospital, Pragma Hospital, Indrani Hospital, Chandigarh Paediatrics Hospital, Aruna Memorial Hospital, DD Bone and Joint hospital, Dr Narang Hospital and Grover Hospital will provide one ventilator each for the isolation centers established by the Health Department.Besides, Dr Parshant Sevta, Dr Shyam Lal Thukral, Dr Atin Gupta and Dr Amit Taneja have volunteered to look after Covid patients in the ICU. The IMA has stated that proper Personal Protective Equipment will be provided to these doctors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/ima-offers-to-provide-ventilators-for-isolation-centres-63973
01-04-2020||Faridkot||Now, booking of LPG cylinders only after 15 days of last delivery||Oil marketing companies on Monday imposed a restriction on booking of refilling LPG cylinders for 15 days from the last supply so that each and every customer can get their cylinders refilled.The supply is adequate and there is no need for panic, reads a letter of oil marketing companies such as India Oil, BPCL and HPC to their gas agencies dealers. Booking restrictions are aimed at checking panic hoarding of LPG cylinders, reads the letter.“Unwanted panic booking deprive genuine customers of cylinders. So in a grave situation, all are requested to cooperate. We as a distributor of gas agencies assure that the situation will be absolutely normal in the coming days,” said Sunil Jain, proprietor of a gas agency here. A customer will not be able to book a cylinder if a 14.2 kg cylinder was delivered to him in the past 15 days and a 5 kg cylinder in the past seven days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/now-booking-of-lpg-cylinders-only-after-15-days-of-last-delivery-63970
01-04-2020||---||9,485 homes supplied ration so far, says DC||Bathinda, March 31To ensure direct access of the ration to people, the district administration is currently supplying ration to people on the doorstep through 20 wholesale vendors in the city. Four wholesalers of them have supplied rations to 9,485 homes on online orders received so far.Giving this information, Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan said two arrangements had been made for the supply of ration. Under the first provision, vehicles laded with material of daily use were going to different wards and citizens could buy items as per their needs. Besides, under the second arrangement, the mobile number of 20 wholesalers had been released for the city residents and any citizen could call and order groceries as per his requirement.Sharing the information, the Deputy Commissioner said so far Reliance had delivered goods at 3,000 homes, Big Bazaar at 113, Big Mega Mart 158 and Best Price at 6,214. Now, 16 more stores had started their service on Sunday.Amarinder Singh Tiwana, SDM, Bathinda, said the supply chain of groceries to rural areas had now been restored. Rampura Phul SDM Khushdil Singh said 12 vehicles were sent to 21 wards of Rampura Phul for the supply of ration and three for supplying material to nearby settlements. So far, goods had been delivered at all the houses and the number of vehicles would have to be reduced as the demand had now decreased. Besides, the supply of goods to the village grocery stores had also been restored. Similarly, in Bhagta, four vehicles were delivering ration on the doorstep in 12 wards.Talwandi Sabo SDM Virender Singh said home supplies were also being made at Talwandi Sabo and Rama Mandi. In these two towns, four to five vehicles used to supply ration, but now the demand had reduced to two vehicles per town. These vehicles carried items of daily use.Around 52 vehicles had been deputed for supplying ration in the urban and rural areas of Maur subdivision. Tehsildar Ramesh Kumar Jain said the demand for ration had now decreased. He said the supply chain had also been restored to villages.Ration distributed to needyAmritsar: Amritsar Improvement Trust Chairman Dinesh Bassi on Monday distributed ration to Class IV employees, including sanitation workers, sewermen and beldars etc.He said he visited their homes in Verka and Mohkampura area. He also visited Rasulpur Kalar village where he distributed vegetables to needy persons. Due to imposition of curfew, people especially daily wagers and labourers were at receiving ends.Various NGOs and people have come forward for helping needy persons. Bassi said teams have been constituted to identify those who were in need of ration and other essential items. He also got installed CCTV cameras in New Amritsar Area besides ordering sanitisation of the areas.Employee leader donates 10% salary for Covid reliefTarn Taran: Manjit Singh Chahal, state general secretary of the Employees’ Federation (Powercom), has offered 10 per cent of his salary for the Chief Minister’s Corona Relief Fund.The leader, in a letter to Er Baldev Singh Sran, Chief Managing Director (CMD), Powercom, has expressed his concern over the worldwide outbreak of the virus, which has badly created terror among people. Manjit Singh has called people to unite at this time of need. — OC43,532 gas cylinders supplied to agenciesThe supply of cooking gas is now normal in Bathinda. Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan said in the last four days, 43,532 gas cylinders had been supplied to various agencies. In the past 24 hours, 11,732 gas cylinders had been supplied. However, there were 9,344 new bookings on Sunday. According to Mandeep Singh, District Food Supply Controller, there is no shortage of gas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/9-485-homes-supplied-ration-so-far-says-dc-63969
01-04-2020||Archit Watts---||Day after chaos outside banks, people follow social distancing||Tribune News Service  Muktsar, March 31 A day after chaos prevailed outside banks in Muktsar district, the police and the administration on Tuesday ensured that residents maintain some distance while waiting for their turn in queues. Some social activists also helped the administration and the police by drawing white circles. “We urge the administration to paint white circles outside the banks because the clay will last for just two-three days. Thereafter, people will again start coming into contact with each other in queues,” said a local resident. The police on Tuesday again swung into action and strictly dealt with those found roaming on roads without any genuine reason. Some people who even tried to get exemption in the name of distribution of food among needy people were not allowed to move on roads. As a result, only a few residents were seen on roads. However, there was some crowd outside the wholesale vegetable market in the morning. The administration also ensured that the supply of essential items does not affect in the town. Earlier, some residents were complaining that the entire town was not being covered and they were facing hardships in getting vegetables. Meanwhile, the district administration appealed to the industrialists to make accommodation arrangements for migrant labourers on the premises so that their exodus could be stopped. Notably, two cases of such migration were registered in the district on Monday. A grocery store owner was also booked for opening his shop and defying the curfew orders on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/day-after-chaos-outside-banks-people-follow-social-distancing-63968
01-04-2020||Archit Watts---||Villagers follow Covid safety guidelines more cautiously||Tribune News Service Muktsar, March 31 People living in the rural area seem to be more cautious in eradicating the coronavirus and following the safety guidelines issued by the government. For instance, some villages have banned the entry of outsiders. A person, who had gone to Anandpur Sahib during the Hola Mohalla, returned to his native Fatuhiwala village on Monday.  On Sunday, villagers did not allow him to enter the village until he underwent medical tests. He was allowed to enter only after his medical reports confirmed that he did have any symptom of Covid.  “The Senior Medical Officer of the Malout Civil Hospital told us that the person was perfectly fine. Thereafter, we allowed him to come to the village,” said Mandeep Singh, sarpanch, Fatuhiwala village. Manianwala village and Akalgarh village have already banned the entry of outsiders. However, the situation in towns is altogether different. People are moving on roads and that too without any genuine reason. Further, when someone comes to distribute grocery items, residents don’t maintain some distance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/villagers-follow-covid-safety-guidelines-more-cautiously-63967
01-04-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin---||Administration ropes in Zomato for delivery of essential items||Tribune News Service  Muktsar, March 31 To further streamline the delivery of grocery items on the doorstep of residents during the curfew, the district administration has decided to avail the services of Zomato for this purpose. At present, 20 employees of Zomato have been selected for providing grocery items to residents. But, the company has 200 employees in the city and as per the need, the number of the employees will be increased in the coming days. On Tuesday, Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan and SSP Dr Nanak Singh sent a team of Zomato employees for providing grocery to residents. Now, residents can order grocery items online on the Zomato app. Zomato has tied up with two stores in the city and are providing grocery items at the minimum delivery charges on the doorstep. The Deputy Commissioner said with availing the services of Zomato, the issue of ration in the city would be resolved. Besides, free dry ration is also being distributed among needed families. On Monday, 1,850 packets were distributed and each packet contained 7-day ration for a family. In addition, the Municipal Corporation with the support of social organisations also provided cooked food to 13,257 people in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/administration-ropes-in-zomato-for-delivery-of-essential-items-63966
01-04-2020||---||Curfew violators to be punished: IG||Bathinda, March 31 The police have sealed the inter-state borders in the district amid the Covid scare. AK Mittal, Inspector General of Police, Bathinda Range, said the supply chain of essential commodities in Bathinda, Muktsar and Mansa would not be affected. He said strict action would be taken against violators of the curfew orders. He appealed to landlords to support their tenants during this difficult period. On Tuesday, he held a meeting with Bathinda SSP Dr. Nanak Singh, Muktsar SSP Rajbachan Singh Sandhu and Mansa SSP Narinder Bhargava and reviewed the curfew situation. Bathinda DC B Srinivasan was also present at the meeting. Mittal said people were cooperating in the curfew, but those coming out of their houses without curfew passes were posing a danger to society. He added that the police would take action against them. Mittal urged factory owners to provide food and assistance to workers. B Srinivasan said the supply of essential commodities had now been restored. He said NGOs and residents, who want to provide ration or any other essential item, could contact the office of the MC Commissioner. The DC said curfew passes were being given to persons having medical emergency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/curfew-violators-to-be-punished-ig-63965
01-04-2020||---||Cold storage owners told to accommodate potato crop||Bathinda, March 31 Proving relief to potato growers in the ongoing harvesting season, the District Magistrate has asked the owners of cold storages to accommodate the potato crop. The potato growers have been allowed to transport their crop to cold storages on tractor-trailers or any other transport vehicles provided the condition that the farmers going to the cold storages will have to keep their Aadhaar or driving licences along with them.   According to the detailed instructions, not more than 10 persons will be allowed to load or unload the crop from vehicles. They will also have to maintain some distance as per the guidelines issued by the Union Government on Covid-19.   Moreover, potato growers have also been allowed to harvest their crop, but the number of labourers will not be more than 10. Earlier, potato growers had met the Deputy Commissioner and sought permission to harvest the crop during the curfew as potatoes are perishable with a relatively short shelf life, if not stored in time.   Potato growers in the Rampura Phul region recently began harvesting the crop, delaying the process by 20 days owing to rain. The process of harvesting needs to be completed at the earliest as the rise in the temperature above 32 degrees can pose a serious threat to the crop.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/cold-storage-owners-told-to-accommodate-potato-crop-63964
01-04-2020||Barnala||Will not let anyone sleep hungry: SSP||Barnala SSP Sandeep Goel and other senior officials of the district administration on Tuesday distributed ration among area residents at Government Girls’ Senior Secondary School, Sehna. SSP Goel addressed residents of the area from atop a bus, urging them to maintain social distance from others and gave an assurance that no one would sleep hungry as the administration would ensure supply of all essential commodities to them. “I have come here with a message from the Punjab CM and the Director General of Punjab. The country is passing through a tough time and we all should cooperate with the government to defeat Covid-19,” said the SSP Goel. He apprised residents of precautions to be taken to stall the spread of Covid-19. He also urged residents to help the police in maintaining law and order during the curfew. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/will-not-let-anyone-sleep-hungry-ssp-63963
01-04-2020||thinda||One suspected Covid case in Muktsar||The police have booked a former SAD councillor, Gurmeet Kaur, for violating the curfew orders as she roamed out of her house without a pass.   According to a complaint lodged by Constable Bhola Singh, she roamed in her area without any curfew pass or permission and violated Section 144 of the IPC.   SSP Dr Nanak Singh said a case had been registered against her as she was roaming with 10 to 15 women in her area without any pass or permission. He said strict action would be taken against the violators.   It is learnt that on Monday, she had alleged poor distribution of ration in her ward. Earlier, former SAD councillor Harjinder Shinda was also booked for spreading rumours on social media regarding relaxation in the curfew.  The Maur police have also booked four persons for defying the curfew orders. The suspects have been identified as Harinder Kumar of Mansa, Palwinder Singh and Pargat Singh of Burj Mansa and Vicky of Sandoha.    A case under Sections 188 and 270 of the IPC has been registered against them. However, they have been released on bail. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/one-suspected-covid-case-in-muktsar-63962
01-04-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin---||Mansa police seal district borders||Tribune News Service Mansa, March 31 Mansa SSP Narinder Bhargav on Tuesday said in compliance with the instructions of the Government of Punjab and the Director-General of Police, Punjab, the Village Police Officers (VPOs) and the Public Committees constituted in all the villages/wards of cities had started working smoothly. The VPOs and village committees were ensuring that public at large remain indoors, wash their hands time and again, use hand sanitisers, cover their mouths and noses with a mask, ensuring social physical distance and obey the norms. In case of emergency, persons would be allowed to go out or return to villages after proper sanitisation, wearing masks and having awareness about social distancing. The Village Police Officers (VPOs) were ensuring that they remain present in the villages and they remain in constant touch with the village/ward committees. He said the Mansa Police had sealed the borders of the district by setting up checkposts or barricading. No person was allowed to come out of his house or come to the district. Flag/road marches were being carried out in rural and urban areas of the district. The public was being appealed not to come out of their houses by making announcements through loudspeakers and the police were ensuring that the public obey the norms. Home delivery of essential items such as flour, sugar, vegetables, fruits, milk and LPG was ensured and medical services were being provided to the public.  He further said food and other essential items were being delivered free of cost to poor and needy persons on the doorstep by the administration with the help of social societies. Streets and vacant areas of Kulrian village (PS Bareta) in Budhlada circle and Ramdittewala village (PS Sadar Mansa) in Mansa circle were sanitised as a preventive measure. The remaining areas would also be sanitised shortly. The SSP further said the Mansa Police were discharging duties day and night to fight Covid-19. He appealed to the public for strict compliance of the curfew restrictions. He said 21 cases had been registered and 74 persons arrested from March 23 till date for violating the curfew.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/mansa-police-seal-district-borders-63961
01-04-2020||Tribune Reporters||Just one ventilator at Muktsar govt hospitals||Muktsar/Ludhiana, March 31With just one ventilator in government hospitals of the district, which has a population of 10 lakh, the health authorities are banking on private hospitals to tackle any adverse situation. Notably, there is no Covid patient in the district yet.Dr HN Singh, Civil Surgeon, MuktsarWe have an ambulance equipped with a ventilator in Gidderbaha. There are 21 ventilators in private hospitals of Muktsar. If the need arises, we can take their service.Dr HN Singh, Civil Surgeon, Muktsar, said, “We have just one functional ventilator in the district and that at in the Muktsar Civil Hospital. Further, we have an ambulance equipped with a ventilator in Gidderbaha. There are 21 ventilators in private hospitals. If the need arises, we can use the ventilators of private hospitals.”Muktsar is the home district of two former CMs, Parkash Singh Badal of the SAD and Harcharan Singh Brar of the Congress. “The health infrastructure needs to be developed. If the situation turns bad, who will be responsible?” said a local resident.Meanwhile, in Ludhiana, ventilators at the Civil Hospital are gathering dust for a year. Patients in need of support are referred to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala.An isolation ward has been set up for Covid patients but sadly, it does not have a ventilator. The Ludhiana-based Covid-positive woman who died at Rajindra Hospital was referred to Patiala as she was in need of a ventilator but the Civil Hospital, Ludhiana, did not have the service as they were yet to be operationalised.Sukhwinder Singh, brother-in-law of the patient, said: “If the ventilators would have been here at Ludhiana, the treatment would have started earlier.”The Civil Hospital had got 14 ventilators a year ago which included nine for newborns and remaining five for the operation theatre. The cost of these ventilators was around Rs2 crore.The hospital needs 10 staff nurses and resident doctors to start the ventilators.Senior Medical Officer Dr Ravi Dutt said he was making arrangements to make them operational and did not talk further saying he was in a meeting.Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said, “I have asked officials to make the ventilators operational and we are ready to spend the money.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/just-one-ventilator-at-muktsar-govt-hospitals-63711
