01-10-2020||Bathinda||Farm unions stage dharnas at toll plazas, block railway tracks in Bathinda||Farmers started their protest in Bathinda on Thursday. BKU Ekta Ugrahan members 'gheraoed' a utility store, the Best Price, near Bhuncho mandi area, and raised slogans against the Union government. The farm union sat on a 'dharna' at toll plazas on the National Highway; Bathinda-Chandigarh, near Lehra Bega village, and on Bathinda-Amritsar, near Jeeda village in the district. Apart from this, farmers also staged a protest at petrol pumps of Reliance and Essar companies, near Bhucho Mandi and Rampura areas.BKU Sidhupur, BKU Dakonda, Kirti Kisan Union, Bharti Kisan Union (Lakhowal) and dozen other farm union members also blocked railway tracks on Bathinda-Delhi railway line, and sat on a 'dharna' as part of the ‘rail roko’ agitation call given by farm union leaders in the state.BKU Ugrahan president Shingara Singh Mann and leaders of other farm unions; Harinder Kaur, Baldev Singh Bhairupa, Kaka Singh Kotra, Baldev Singh Sandoha and Amarjit Honey have been leading these protests in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/farm-unions-stage%C2%A0dharnas%C2%A0at-toll-plazas-block-railway-tracks-in-bathinda-149412
01-10-2020||Sameer Singh||Bathinda teacher’s online lectures a hit||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 30It is 4.30 pm and Amaan Idris, 16, is busy understanding the concepts of trigonometry from her mentor, who she discovered online.When the lockdown happened, Sanjeev Kumar from Bharat Nagar in Bathinda, decided to make the most of his time by tutoring students all over the country free of cost.With over 18 years of academic experience, Sanjeev (42), a teacher at Kendriya Vidyalaya school in Bathinda Cantonment has devoted his last six months in imparting education to students of classes VIII to XII, and over 2,500 pupils preparing for NTSE scholarship entrance. His online lectures have also pulled in people from the UAE and Malaysia.Tanveer Kaur from Srinagar, a class X student, said: “In the past six months, sir has helped us cover 80 per cent of the syllabus. I am certain we will be through with our maths syllabus before winter break. He makes use of a vast number of online tools, which has made the learning process simple and effective. Since the classes are free of cost, it’s a blessing for people who otherwise wouldn’t have been able to afford this level of quality education.”Tanveer’s mother Davinder Kaur said: “We have access to 2G network connection, but that has not been an hindrance. My ward’s mentor has an advanced technology infrastructure. Therefore, she doesn’t face any problem. He is doing ‘sewa’ in the truest sense of the word.”On March 28, Kumar conducted a trial session online, and got an overwhelming response.Talking to The Tribune, Sanjeev said, “I always thought of doing something which could bring about a change in people’s lives. When the lockdown happened, I had ample time left to myself, which is when I decided to teach students online. The response I have got so far has been staggering.”Kumar also invites noted educationists from premier academic institutions to deliver lectures in his live sessions.“I am very well connected to my roots. My needs have always been minimal. So, when many people try to offer me money, I politely turn it down. I will consider myself successful if I am able to inspire a few more teachers to follow the suit,” added Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-teachers-online-lectures-a-hit-149077
01-10-2020||---||Road linking 3 Malwa districts not metalled||Bathinda, September 30The demand of the residents of Goniana block, Bathinda, to metal the 3 km dirt stretch (kutcha road) that connects three districts of Malwa region — Bathinda, Muktsar and Faridkot — has been lying pending for over a decade.The stretch begins at Ganga Ablu Ki village, goes via Kothe Naiwala and meets at Ramiana village in Farodkot district. The metal road will benefit residents of more than 12 villages around the block, who have to travel extra every time they have to enter Bathinda city, as well as Faridkot and Muktsar districts.“We have brought the matter into the notice of local MLAs and the government on numerous occasions, but not action has been taken,” said a panchayat member of Ganga Ablu Ki village.Guradita Singh Brar, another resident, said, “If the government metals the road, it will save the time and money of residents of adjacent villages and commuters who travel between these districts daily.”Another panchayat member said, “Ganga Ablu Ki village falls in the Bathinda Lok Sabha constituency represented by Harsimrat Kaur Badal (SAD) under the Vidhan Sabha constituency represented by Congress MLA Pritam Singh Kotbhai. Kothe Naiwale falls under Gidderbaha Vidhan Sabha constituency in Muktsar district represented by Amrinder Singh Raja Warring (Congress). Ramiana village falls in Faridkot district under the constituency of Congress MLA Baldev Singh. The location of the dirt stretch has kept away the representatives of the parties from getting the work done.”Tek Singh, XEN, PWD (B&R), said, “Whenever, any MLA will bring up the proposal, the work to metal the road will be taken up on a priority basis.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/road-linking-3-malwa-districts-not-metalled-149083
