02-11-2020||Chandigarh||Dr Buta Singh Sidhu appointed VC of Maharaja Ranjit Singh State Technical University||Punjab Governor on Monday approved the appointment of Dr Buta Singh Sidhu as the Vice-chancellor of Maharaja Ranjit Singh State Technical University, Bathinda.Dr Sidhu is the officiating registrar of the technical university. He was among the panel of three candidates approved by the board of governors of the university.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/dr-buta-singh-sidhu-appointed-vc-of-maharaja-ranjit-singh-state-technical-university-164844
02-11-2020||---||Bathinda Youth Cong chief among five held with arms by Chandigarh Police||Chandigarh, November 1Five persons, including the Bathinda district Youth Congress president, were nabbed by the Chandigarh Police while illegally possessing pistols and cartridges at nakas laid by the police on the intervening night of October 31 and November 1.The miscreants, riding a Swift, tried to escape from the spot. However, the suspects were chased and nabbed near the Sector 7/8/18/19 roundabout.DSP (Central) Krishan Kumar said the nakas were laid in the wake of recent firing incidents reported from the city. The police had laid a naka on the road opposite the TDI mall in Sector 17 when a Scorpio was stopped for checking around 11.30 pm.The SUV was being driven by 31-year-old Lakhwinder Singh, a resident of Bathinda. The police said during checking, a pistol and seven live cartridges were recovered from his possession.Lakhwinder is the Bathinda district Youth Congress president. On a complaint of ASI Tejinder Singh, a case was registered against Lakhwinder at the Sector 17 police station.In another incident at the same naka, the police signalled a Swift car to stop. However, the person driving the car sped away from the spot. A police party chased the car following which the suspects were intercepted by a team, led by Inspector Ram Rattan, SHO of the Sector 17 police station, at the Sector 7/8/18/19 roundabout. During a search of the car, a country-made revolver and five live cartridges were recovered from 45-year-old Amritpal Singh, a resident of Bathinda, and seven live cartridges were recovered from Harpreet Singh (29), a resident of Mansa district.Both suspects are “farmers”. A case has been registered against them at the Sector 17 police station. All suspects were produced in a court today, which remanded Lakhwinder in one-day police custody and Amritpal and Harpreet in two-day police custody.Two suspects were also nabbed at a naka on the road separating Sector 8 and 18.The police said a Ford Endeavour (PB 31 V0011) was stopped at the naka followng which a person sitting next to the driver’s seat tried to escape. However, he was nabbed at the spot.The suspect was identified as Varun Garg (35), a resident of Zirakpur. The police recovered three live cartridges from him. The police then checked the person driving the SUV, identified as Kuldip Singh (32), a resident of Mansa district, from whom a revolver and two live cartridges were recovered.A case against the suspects has been registered at the Sector 3 police station.Special nakas on weekendsFollowing shooting incidents in the city, the UT police have started laying special nakas during weekends to check the movement of suspicious people in the city. Three persons were nabbed with weapons during a similar naka last week on the road separating Sector 8 and 18.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-youth-cong-chief-among-five-held-with-arms-by-chandigarh-police-164501
02-11-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Three trains carrying urea for  Malwa belt stuck in other states||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, November 1Farmers in the state may face a shortage of fertilisers in the coming days with the movement of goods trains to and from the state suspended.Presently there is a shortage of 10 lakh tonne urea and there is a requirement of four lakh tonne Diammonium phosphate (DAP) as well. The three goods trains laden with fertilisers for the Malwa region are stuck in other states.After the harvest of paddy, the sowing of wheat would soon begin in the region, Agriculture Department officials have advised farmers to begin sowing from November 1 to 15. Farmers would therefore require DAP as well urea. Sensing a shortage of fertilisers, farmers in the region have started purchasing it from cooperative societies and traders in large quantities.Sources say the three goods trains stuck in other states were to reach and deliver the fertilisers at the Rampura railway station in Bathinda, Mansa and Kotkapura in Faridkot district. However, it is not yet clear when these trains would reach the destination. Agriculture department officials claim that there’s sufficient stock of fertilisers with which farmers would be able to start the sowing of wheat in the region.They also claim wheat is likely to be sown on 15 lakh hectares in the state, requiring 5.50 lakh tonne DAP and 15 lakh tonne urea. Agriculture expert say if fertilisers do not reach within a week, farmers would face the problem.BKU (Ekta Urgahan), secretary, Shingara Singh Mann, says: “The Central Government has deliberately stopped the movement of trains carrying fertilisers and coal to the state. It is an attempt to suppress our protest. But we won’t succumb to any pressure.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/three-trains-carrying-urea-for-malwa-belt-stuck-in-other-states-164722
02-11-2020||---||Student union opposes move to ‘change’ Panjab University status||Bathinda, November 1Members of the Punjab Students’ Union (PSU) (Lalkar) have opposed the decision of “doing away” with the Senate and Syndicate of Panjab University, Chandigarh.They have exhorted students’ organisations to oppose the move, as the decades-old university, which has been governed by the state government to date, would come under the direct control of the Central Government.In a press statement released today, the PSU members said it had been learnt that the UGC had sent a letter to the university stating that as per the new education policy, the Senate and Syndicate would not be formed, and instead a Board of Governors would be formed, whose members wouldn’t be elected but rather be nominated by the Central Government.The term of the Senate, the apex body of the university, ended on October 31.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/student-union-opposes-move-to-change-panjab-university-status-164752
