04-11-2020||Chandigarh||Why accused not arrested, Bathinda SSP asked||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has taken the police to task over the non-arrest of an accused by directing the Bathinda SSP to file an affidavit, explaining why a petitioner-accused, evading arrest, had not been taken into custody so far.For the purpose of filing the affidavit before the High Court Registrar-General, Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan has set a two-month deadline. “The Registry is directed to communicate this order to the SSP, Bathinda, at the earliest, for compliance,” he added.The direction came even as the judge dismissed as withdrawn the anticipatory bail plea filed by petitioner-accused Mangal Singh. The matter was placed before the Bench after the petitioner-accused filed a second petition for grant of anticipatory bail in a December 2019 cheating case, registered under Sections 420 and 34 of the IPC at Dyalpura police station in Bathinda district.Justice Sangwan observed the earlier petition was dismissed as withdrawn on August 11. “After arguing the matter for some time, counsel for the petitioner, finding that the court is not inclined to grant the concession of anticipatory bail to the petitioner, seeks permission to withdraw the present petition,” he observed in the order before issuing the directions. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/why-accused-not-arrested-bathinda-ssp-asked-165547
04-11-2020||Bathinda||Bathinda farmers gherao BJP ex-minister Madan Mohan Mittal||Farmers under the banner of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Sidhupur) today gheraoed BJP leader and former minister Madan Mohan Mittal at Circuit House here. The police barricaded Circuit House to keep the marching protesters at bay. When the situation became tense, they escorted Mittal to safety from the back door.Farmers protested against Mittal as soon as they came to know about his visit to the city. Addressing protesters, BKU (Sidhupur) leader Baldev Singh Sandoha said: “Narendra Modi-led NDA government is working against the farmers’ interests. Everyone is supporting us on the farm laws, except BJP leaders.”Mittal had come to meet BJP local leaders on the farm laws and the upcoming elections to the Municipal Corporation. Interacting with mediapersons, he alleged that most protesters were not farmers, but Naxals.The BJP leader stressed the farm laws were for the betterment of farmers, but opposition parties were misleading everyone for their political gains. Further, Mittal said goods trains were suspended as farmers were still protesting on rail tracks. Moreover, the state government did not ensure the safe passage to trains. The former minister stressed if farmer unions were willing, he could arrange their meeting with the Union Agriculture Minister. — TNSShwait Malik faces protest in FazilkaBJP former state president Shwait Malik on Tuesday had to face the ire of protesting farmers during his visit to Fazilka. Farmers gheraoed his car and raised slogans against the Centre. They also staged a dharna outside the hotel where he held a meeting with local leaders. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-farmers-gherao-bjp-ex-minister-madan-mohan-mittal-165533
