08-04-2020||---||DAV, NFL donate to PM relief fund||Bathinda, April 7DAV College Managing Committee and National Fertilizers’ Limited have donated Rs 5 crore and Rs 1.52 crore, respectively, to the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM-CARES) Fund. Bathinda DAV College principal Dr Sanjeev Sharma said the amount was sent to the fund by Managing Committee president Padma Shri Punam Suri. Sharma said all 919 employees of the DAV institutions across the nation had contributed their one-day salary for the donations. Quoting Dr Suri, Dr Sharma said, “Our institutions in some states have provided their premises for making arrangements for self-quarantine of people who have migrated from cities to their native places. We are also extending help to the local administration by providing food, water and other such essentials.” Of the Rs 1.52 crore donated by the NFL, the employees had contributed their one day’s salary amounting to Rs 88 lakh and remaining Rs 63.94 lakh were contributed from the company’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) fund. NFL C&MD Manoj Mishra said the company was fully committed to contribute in every possible way to fight the pandemic. “Even in this difficult situation, the company is ensuring smooth and sufficient supply of fertilisers and essential farming ingredients to farmers. Moreover, the NFL is also working towards creating awareness in and around its operational areas,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/dav-nfl-donate-to-pm-relief-fund-67079
08-04-2020||Muktsar||Entry points of localities sealed||Man booked for defying curfewMuktsar: The Muktsar (Sadar) police on Monday booked a resident of Ballamgarh village near here for allegedly defying the curfew orders as he roamed on roads without any genuine reason. The suspect has been identified as Dilpreet Singh. A case under Sections 188 and 269 of the IPC has been registered against him. TNSOne booked for giving false infoMuktsar: The Muktsar (Sadar) police have booked a resident of Bura Gujjar village for allegedly giving false information to the district administration about the disbursal of ration. The police said Sukhdev Singh had alleged that needy persons were not getting the ration. But in the probe, his claims were found incorrect. A case has been registered against him. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/entry-points-of-localities-sealed-67078
08-04-2020||Archit Watts---||Residents upset over rejection of curfew pass applications||Tribune News Service Muktsar, April 7 A large number of people seek curfew passes every day, but applications of some residents are being rejected in the district. Expressing unhappiness, they are taking up the issue with the Chief Minister through Twitter. Agam Narang, a local resident, on Tuesday tweeted the Chief Minister, “The Muktsar administration rejecting applications for curfew pass without looking into them. Is there anyone to listen or as usual we need “political recommendation” to even get a pass for medical emergency? #SHAME”   Similarly, a resident of the Kotkapura Road area, who had to take his father to a private hospital in Bathinda for medical check-up, said, “I had online applied for the curfew pass. But when no one responded even after three hours, I had to approach someone and then I got the pass.” On this, a senior official in the district administration said they were getting nearly 700 applications daily for the curfew pass. “We have to contain the number of curfew passes just because of the pandemic. If we will allow everyone to come on the roads, the purpose of the curfew will be defeated. People should also understand that officials are working for their safety and that too after risking their own lives.” Meanwhile, MK Aravind Kumar, Deputy Commissioner, Muktsar, said they were dealing with the situation with utmost care. “We are not refusing pass to any applicant with a genuine reason. Some people are seeking medical passes by giving the photo of some other person. Some people have even uploaded some mysterious photos. We have even warned them of action in future.”   The Deputy Commissioner said, “The administration had received some complaints in the control room regarding the supply of LPG cylinders. Now, all such complaints have been resolved.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/residents-upset-over-rejection-of-curfew-pass-applications-67077
08-04-2020||Faridkot||41 samples test negative in Faridkot||After days of panic in view of a Covid case here, the Health Department and residents on Tuesday heaved a sigh of relief after 41 samples tested negative.     The Health Department had collected 61 samples of those persons who came in contact with the patient. Besides, two family members of the patient also tested negative for Covid. The report of the patient’s mother is yet to be received by the Health Department.    Since a 35-year-old person had tested positive for the coronavirus here on April 2, the district administration, Health Department and residents are on high alert.    After the detection of the positive case, Harindra Nagar, the locality of the patient, was sealed and officials were tracing all persons who had come in contact with the patient in the past about 20 days. Samples of 47 persons, including 18 immediate contacts, were sent for testing, said Dr Rajinder Kumar, Civil Surgeon, Faridkot. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/41-samples-test-negative-in-faridkot-67076
08-04-2020||Parvesh Sharma---||Ensure supply of essentials to needy: Minister||Tribune News Service  Barnala, April 7 Minister of Water Resources, Housing and Urban Development Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria on Tuesday presided over a meeting of Barnala administration to review arrangements to prevent the spread of coronavirus.  “The Punjab Government has been making all required arrangements to check the spread of the virus. Officers must ensure that there are no impediments to the supply of essential commodities during the curfew,” he said.  Deputy Commissioner Tej Pratap Singh Phoolka, SSP Sandeep Goyal and other senior officers also attended the meeting. Civil Surgeon Dr Gurinderbir Singh said quarantine facility has been set up at six different places. “We have also created isolation centres at rehabilitation centers in Sohal Patti, Barnala and CHC Mahal Kalan. Required arrangements to ensure other facilities have also been made at private hospitals.” he said.  District Food and Civil Supply Controller Atinder Kaur said 2,000 packets of ration were being sent on daily basis to families, who are not covered under the Smart Rashan Card Scheme. Chief Agricultural Officer Baldev Singh said repair of combines has begun in the district and the harvest of wheat in the district will start from April 15.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/ensure-supply-of-essentials-to-needy-minister-67075
08-04-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin---||318 held for curfew violations in 2 weeks||Tribune News Service Bathinda, April 7 Despite the curfew imposed to contain the spread of Covid, a large number of residents in the region were found violating the restrictions.  Acting tough against the violators, the police have booked them under the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Disease Act, along with the IPC. According to the data, as many as 164 cases were registered and 318 persons were arrested in Bathinda Range, which compromises Bathinda, Sri Muktsar Sahib and Mansa districts, between March 23 and April 5. In Bathinda district, 54 cases were registered, while 129 persons were arrested. In Mansa, 61 cases were registered, while 141 persons were arrested. Similarly in Sri Muktsar Sahib, the police registered 49 cases and arrested 48 persons for violating the curfew orders. Arun Kumar Mittal, IGP, Bathinda Range, said, “In all three districts, the police are keeping a close watch on violators and the situation is under control.” He said to contain the spread of the coronavirus, the police are acting tough against curfew violators. He said people with emergency condition were being allowed to visit medical stores.  The Bathinda police have also made SSD Girls’ School located near Gol Diggi in the city a makeshift open jail for the curfew violators. On Tuesday, the police arrested nine persons for roaming on roads without genuine reason.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/318-held-for-curfew-violations-in-2-weeks-67074
08-04-2020||Bathinda||Cops use banners to create awareness on coronavirus||The police have prepared banners to create awareness about the coronavirus among the public. Arun Kumar Mittal, IGP, Bathinda Range, made officials aware of causes, symptoms and preventive steps needed to contain the spread of the coronavirus. These banners will be installed at police stations and public places in Bathinda, Mansa and Muktsar districts. The police have got pamphlets published, which will be given to village police officers (VPOs). They will paste these in their villages. In the posters, many slogans have been written to highlight the issue. One of the slogans says ‘You stay inside your house, we are outside for you’. As a precaution, residents have been told to wash their hands frequently, maintain at least 1m (3 feet) distance from others and anyone who is coughing or sneezing, avoid touching eyes, nose and mouth, practice respiratory hygiene. On feeling fever, cough and difficulty in breathing, a person must seek medical care. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/cops-use-banners-to-create-awareness-on-coronavirus-67073
08-04-2020||---||Man booked for violating home quarantine norms||Faridkot, April 7Shifted to institutional quarantine centreA case under Sections 188, 269, 270 and 271 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against Jagpreet and the authorities have shifted him to an institutional quarantine centre.The Faridkot police have registered a criminal case against Jagpreet Singh of Bazigar Basti, a suspected Covid-19 patient, for violating home quarantine norms.The case has been registered on the basis of a complaint by a sub-inspector. Jagpreet was put under home quarantine on suspicion of being infected by coronavirus. The police received information from the Health Department that Jagpreet was meeting other people and seen strolling outside his home and thus, was putting the lives of others at risk. On verification, the police found the information as correct.A case under Sections 188, 269, 270 and 271 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against Jagpreet and the authorities have shifted him to an institutional quarantine centre.While Section 269 provides for a jail term of up to six months or fine or both, Section 270 provides for a jail term of up to two years or fine or both. The word ‘malignantly’ mentioned in Section 270 indicates a deliberate intention on the part of the person charged. The penal provisions are being invoked to enforce the lockdown orders in various states with an aim to deter people from coming out of their homes and thus, containing the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/man-booked-for-violating-home-quarantine-norms-67072
08-04-2020||Bathinda||Manpreet thanks NGOs for their services in city||Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Tuesday at a meet with members of various NGOs thanked them for their services in the time of coronavirus threat. While addressing the gathering at sports stadium, Manpreet applauded the work done by them in the city. He also said they might contact him for any kind of help anytime. Earlier, Sahara Jansewa NGO president Vijay Goyal honoured police personnel for their services at Hanuman Chowk. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/manpreet-thanks-ngos-for-their-services-in-city-67071
08-04-2020||---||Covid: Budhlada’s Ward No. 4 declared containment zone||Mansa, April 7 Senior Superintendent of Police, Mansa, Dr Narinder Bhargava took the command of containment zone in his own hands. The Mansa SSP visited Budhlada city on Tuesday and said Covid cases found in Budhlada city were quarantined in Ward No. 4 Budhlada, which has been declared a containment zone, whereas the surrounding areas of this ward were being treated as a buffer zone.  The containment zone has been sealed and cut-off from the buffer zone since medical teams were continuously on work for the past three days. Communication has been established with the inhabitants of containment area through ward police officer on WhatsApp group. A few inhabitants projected their problems to the district police through the WhatsApp group. The district police have made arrangements for things required by people of Ward No.4 (containment zone). Six police teams wearing specially designed kits have been deputed on the spot by the SSP to deliver the required material to the residents of containment area. SSP Mansa visited the area of Budhlada and appealed to the people to follow full precautions and obey the provisions of curfew strictly to put a brake on the spread of this pandemic. He assured the public that he himself and district police were always ready to provide every kind of help to them and they should not worry about anything.  He advised the general public not to create panic in this sensitive situation. Rather, they should ensure their presence in their own houses, he said. He redressed the problems/issues on the spot brought to his notice by the public and ward committees. He also appealed to the general public not to believe in rumours / false posts being spread through social media by mischievous elements. He warned such people not to spread rumours and further help the police and administration in performing its duties more efficiently in such a critical situation.  Bhargav said curfew in Mansa district was on continuously with the help of self-help groups and residents of district themselves. Keeping in view the public security and maintenance of law and order in the area, flag marches and nakabandis were being ensured at various points. He said: “The position of curfew was also being monitored by deploying seven drones (four in Mansa City, one each in Budhlada, Jhunir and Sardulgarh), so that illegal events are captured immediately. Apart from this, the public appeals are also being issued by way of making announcements through loud speakers.”  The SSP said: “From the date of imposing curfew, 80 cases have been registered, 169 persons have been arrested and 26 vehicles taken in police custody under Sections 269 and 188 of the IPC so far. Similarly, 233 vehicles have been impounded for violation of Section 207 of the Motor Vehicles Act.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/covid-budhladas-ward-no-4-declared-containment-zone-67070
