11-07-2020||---||Hike in fuel prices sends vegetable prices soaring||Bathinda, July 10Disruptions in supply chain and a continuous rise in fuel prices have sent vegetable prices soaring in the state. The high prices are burning a hole in the common man’s pocket as rates of almost all vegetables have gone up by 20-30 per cent in the market.The price of onions, tomatoes, peas, cauliflower, bottle gourd and bitter gourd has sky-rocketed. Residents are finding it difficult to manage the kitchen.A visit to the vegetable market revealed that the price of tomatoes is presently Rs 65-70 per kg, which was Rs 40 per kg earlier. Peas, which was selling at Rs 45 per kg, is now being sold at Rs 70 per kg.Similarly, bottle gourd is now being sold at Rs 40 per kg, which was earlier available at Rs 15 per kg. The price of capsicum has also increased from Rs 25 per kg to Rs 45-50 per kg.The price of brinjal and lady finger has increased from Rs 20 to Rs 40 per kg. Cauliflower, which was earlier available at Rs 25 per kg, is now being sold at Rs 40 per kg.During the lockdown, the prices of vegetables were quite low as locally grown vegetables were coming to the market, but now, farmers have planted paddy due to which vegetables are coming from other states. The hike in fuel price has added to the problem. Moreover, the demand is high but the supply is short.The prices are expected to rise in the coming days as heavy rains can further disrupt supply chain of vegetables.Subhash Kumar, a vegetable seller, said “We are getting vegetables at high rates. Then there are transportation and labour charges, which add to the prices of vegetables. Customers need to bear with us as we, too, are helpless.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/hike-in-fuel-prices-sends-vegetable-prices-soaring-111254
11-07-2020||Bathinda||Teachers: Give regular jobs or face protest||Members of the TET-qualified Unemployed BEd Teachers’ Union submitted a memorandum of demands to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh through Finance Minister Manpreet Badal today. Among other demands, they urged the government to regularise the services of teachers on a priority basis.Yudhjit Singh, president of the union, along with other members, reached Badal village and submitted a memorandum of demands to the Finance Minister, urging him to take up the matter with the CM.The union demanded that the age limit for government jobs be increased from 37 to 42 years. Yudhjit Singh said the state government should immediately recruit 15,000 BEd teachers and 12,000 ETT teachers. He said if their demands were not considered by the government, they would gherao Education Minister’s residence on July 17. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/teachers-give-regular-jobs-or-face-protest-111246
