11-04-2020||Bathinda||Facebook post about 'missing' Manpreet Badal prompts Punjab Police to register case||A Facebook post allegedly mocking Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Badal for having gone missing in the middle of the coronavirus health crisis prompted state police to register a case, police said.   The controversial post said: “Gumshuda Di Talash, Manpreet Badal hua gumshuda, labda fere Punjab, Manpreet Badal di karo talash, disda nahi ke punjab wich hai ya punjab wicho bahar” (Search for missing: Manpreet Badal is missing, Punjab looking for him, we should search for Manpreet. Is he is in Punjab or outside?).Investigation officer (IO) Senior Inspector Daljit Singh said a case had been registered on the basis of a tip they received, based on which police zeroed in three profiles---one belonging to a person named Gurjinder Singh Brar from Faridkot, another belonging to Amritpal Singh Gill from Khemkaran, and a third profile that went by the name Akali Yodha.The IDs are believed to belong to Shiromani Akali Dal’s youth workers.No arrests have been made yet.Bathinda SSP Dr Nanak Singh said “After registering cases against three Facebook IDs for the post, we have written to Facebook asking for details of the owners of these profiles”.In his post, Gurjinder Singh Brar allegedly quoted Finance Minister Manpreet Badal as having said: “I am a minister, not clerk”, and allegedly accused the minister of not having the time to review the state’s financial position for ongoing relief operations in the state.Police have registered a case for disobeying order of a public servant (Section 188); acts leading to spread of infectious diseases (Section 269 and 270); and defamation (Section 500 and 501) of the Indian Penal Code.This comes a few days after similar post on Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal also did the rounds on social media, but that post saw no police action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/facebook-post-about-missing-manpreet-badal-prompts-punjab-police-to-register-case-69703
11-04-2020||Saurabh Malik||Bathinda jail sets up quarantine ward for new inmates||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 10To stay in isolation for 14 daysHeaded by Justice Rakesh Kumar Jain of the High Court, the committee has already laid down the criteria for release of convicts.For undertrials put behind bars during the Covid lockdown period in Bathinda, it is virtually a jail within a jail. A quarantine ward has been set up in Bathinda Central jail for the newly admitted inmates. They are being kept under observation for 14 days before being transferred to other wards in the prison after being certified by the jail medical officer. Information to this effect was given to Bathinda District and Sessions Judge Kamaljit Lamba through video-conferencing this afternoon. Judge Lamba was also told that no less than 151 undertrials had already been released from the jail in view of the Covid outbreak.Of the total, 79 undertrials were released on interim bail, 39 on personal bond and 33 on regular bail in accordance with the directions issued by a high-powered committee set up for the purpose. Headed by Justice Rakesh Kumar Jain of the High Court, the committee has already laid down the criteria for release of convicts and undertrials in Punjab in pursuance to the directives issued by the apex court.The Central Jail superintendent also submitted during video-conferencing that hunger strike resorted to by some undertrial inmates on April 6 was successfully brought to an end the next day. The inmates behind the incident had already been identified. A request for their transfer to other jails had also been sent to Punjab Additional Director-General of Police (Jails) to maintain the peaceful environment inside the prison.After taking stock of the situation, Judge Lamba directed the DC concerned to spray sodium hydrochloride for disinfecting the jail. The direction came after Judge Lamba was told about the non-availability of the chemical in the jail. Fogging inside the jail was also ordered to check the spread of malaria.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-jail-sets-up-quarantine-ward-for-new-inmates-69391
11-04-2020||Faridkot||Third  testing lab starts in Faridkot||To cater to the need of Covid-19 suspect patients from the south-west Malwa region, a Covid-19 testing lab was started at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, on Thursday.After Government Medical Colleges at Amritsar and Patiala, this is third lab in the state. It will provide services to the suspects of coronavirus from Fazilka, Ferozepur, Moga, Bathinda and Muktsar districts, said Dr Raj Bahadur, vice-chancellor of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS). Faridkot medical college is a constituent of the university.“With the support of state government and Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, we were able to start the lab for Covid-19 testing. We have installed RNA extractor, 3 RT PCR machines along with the workstations, bio-safety cabinet and deep freezer here,” said the VC.“Doctors and technicians have already been trained and they have started working on the system. We are confident that initially we will be able to take care of 40 samples everyday and eventually with the competency and manpower, we may be able to run it in three shifts,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/third-testing-lab-starts-in-faridkot-69390
11-04-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Timely action saved  Bathinda district from virus spread||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, April 10Sealed off borderBathinda district has not seen a single case of Covid-19 so far. The district administration sealed its interstate border with Haryana after curfew was imposed on March 22 to stop the influx of persons from other states.As per information, from March 22 to April 8, samples of 100 suspected patients were taken and sent for testing at a Patiala lab, of which 98 reports tested negative, while two reports are awaited.In a major relief to residents, as many as 77 samples taken of those with links to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation have been reported negative. The remaining 23 samples were taken from NRIs who had come from Covid-affected countries and these all also have also been reported negative.Moreover, the Health Department got a list of 1,587 people with international and domestic travel history since January 1 in the district, of which 1,577 people were traced and kept in 14 days’ home quarantine. The department claims 10 persons who had not been traced had given their addresses. These had been sent to the police.The police here have been particularly strict against violators of curfew. From March 22 to April 9, the Bathinda police filed 74 cases of curfew violations at 19 police stations. As many as 245 persons were booked and 170 were arrested. The police are also keeping a tab on violations using drones.Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan said, “We understand the problems being faced by poor people due to the curfew, but the risk of Covid is far more serious than these problems. One small mistake can prove deadly for the whole district.”He said the disease only got transmitted through mutual contact and everyone should understand the meaning of social distancing and should not step out of their homes. He said the district administration was working day and night to transport goods of daily use to people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/timely-action-saved-bathinda-district-from-virus-spread-69380
11-04-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||With ‘cancer train’ suspended, treatment comes to a standstill||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, April 10Cancer patients in the region have been hit hard with the suspension of the Abohar-Jodhpur express, also known as ‘Cancer train’. Owing to the nationwide lockdown, many patients have not been able to travel to Bikaner for further treatment.The train would leave Abohar every day carrying patients, mostly small farmers from Punjab’s cotton belt — Mansa, Bathinda, Faridkot, Sangrur, Moga, Muktsar, Ferozepur and Fazilka — for treatment at Acharya Tulsi Regional Cancer Hospital and Research Centre, Bikaner. Although the numbers dipped with the opening of Advanced Cancer Institute (ACI), Bathinda, and Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital, Sangrur, yet many continued taking treatment at Bikaner.Scheduled surgeries of cancer patients at the ASI have been put off, rued Gurdeep Kaur of Mahinangal village and Angrej Kaur of Maur, both undergoing treatment for breast cancer. Pawan Kumar of Fazilka, suffering from head and neck cancer, said: “I was undergoing treatment at Bikaner. But owing to the lockdown, I opted for the Bathinda institute. Now, that too has been converted into a quarantine facility.” Patients undergoing chemotherapy are hit most.Dr Parvinder Sandhu, an oncologist, admitted that with the third floor of the ACI earmarked for Covid patients, some surgeries had been postponed.“Also, there is only one X-ray test station which can’t be used for both cancer and Covid patients,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/with-cancer-train-suspended-treatment-comes-to-a-standstill-69442
