11-10-2020||---||Bathinda varsity looks for alternative to farm fires||Bathinda, October 10Extensive research on the presence of heavy metallic content in groundwater in Malwa region and to find out a viable alternative to stubble-burning will be the two key research areas of the Central University of Punjab in the coming years, said prof RP Tiwari, Vice Chancellor of the university, during a media interaction here. Union Education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal will be virtually inaugurating the new campus of the university in Bathinda on October 12.Professor Tiwari said, “Our research projects will primarily be focused on ensuring that they provide a solution and be of utility to people of the region and state. The university has already tied-up with Bhabha Atomic Research Centre to map the uranium concentration in the drinking water in region. We will be laying more emphasis on experiential learning for our students and research scholars. Agriculture is not considered as a lucrative profession by many today, we will also conduct research to that effect as well. Moreover, we will introduce botanical garden and medicinal plants in the university campus, where plants from the region will be grown for research purposes.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-varsity-looks-for-alternative-to-farm-fires-153957
11-10-2020||Moga||Woman delivers in hospital parking||In a case of alleged gross negligence on part of the authorities, a woman today gave birth to a child at the district hospital parking lot without any assistance from doctors or paramedical staff.The woman, who works at a brick-kiln, walked to the hospital with her husband, but the doctors referred her to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, claiming she had acute anemia. As the family came out of the maternity ward after a check-up, the woman went into labour and gave birth to a child on the ground. Shakuntala Devi, patient’s mother, alleged the doctors who attended to her advised her to go for Cesarean section at the Faridkot hospital, even as the facility was available at the district hospital.Ravinder Kumar, patient’s brother, alleged the doctors did not attend to his sister properly. “It was a normal delivery, that too without medical assistance. How come C-section was advised by the doctors?” he said, while urging the Punjab Government to take legal action against the erring doctors. Senior Medical Officer Rajesh Attri said the doctors had referred her to the Faridkot hospital due to high risk, but the family desired to take her to a private hospital. “They wasted time,” he added. The authorities later claimed they had admitted the woman and her child to the hospital and both were doing fine. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/woman-delivers-in-hospital-parking-153971
