13-05-2020||Sameer Singh||Bathinda institute sans expert, cancer patients await reports||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, May 12In the absence of pathologists at Advanced Cancer Institute, the patients here are awaiting diagnosis and initiation of the treatment.With reports lying pending for over a month now, the type of cancer couldn’t be diagnosed, thereby stalling the treatment of a number of patients.The incharge of ACI’s pathology unit had joined AIIMS, Bathinda, recently, and the new appointee couldn’’t join in the wake of curfew imposed in the district.Earlier, the patients were susceptible to catching coronavirus, as a part of the institute’s building was turned into an isolation centre for Covid patients. Now, the unending wait for medical reports is giving the patients sleepless nights.Talking to The Tribune, Balkaran Singh, a relative of cancer patient Manjit Kaur, said, “We had given our samples on April 21. Post that, we visited the hospital numerous times to collect the report, but returned disappointed. Every time we visit the hospital, we are told to come after a few days.”“It’s a tough time for us, as the doctors can’t proceed with the treatment without the medical reports. Manjit, who is suffering from excruciating pain in her throat, has been left feeling helpless for weeks now. The doctors haven’t provided any medicine to her.”Gurtej Kaur from Talwandi Sabo and Jasvir Singh from Sekhu, both cancer patients, said even if they got the tests done from private labs, the hospital would not accept the test reports. “Where should we go? On one hand, the hospital doesn’t provide us with reports and on the other hand, we are told that if we get the tests done from outside, we won’t be eligible to avail benefits under the Mukh Mantri Punjab Cancer Raahat Kosh Scheme.”Director of the institute Dr Deepak Arora said, “The tenure of the pathologist who was working here had ended recently. A recruitment was made, but due to curfew, he couldn’t join. However, the appointee will join soon.”Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-institute-sans-expert-cancer-patients-await-reports-84091
13-05-2020||Bathinda||Owners wary as hotels turned isolation centres without training||Hoteliers are worried, as no training has been given to their staff members in managing foreign returnees who will undergo quarantine in hotels.Satish Arora, president, Punjab Hotel Association, said: “Hospitality industry is cooperating with the state government and around 4,000 hotel rooms across the state have been turned into quarantine centres. However, till date, no training has been given to the staff in managing people who will undergo quarantine in hotels.”He said the industry was facing a crisis. Despite this, they were supporting the government on all fronts, but so far neither the state government nor the district administration had contacted them to guide them on the way forward.The district administration has fixed and notified tariff of six hotels in the city on Saturday. However, people have raised objections as the hotels are in the residential areas.In Hotel Comfort Inn, tariff for executive room has been fixed at Rs3,000, deluxe room Rs4,000 and suite Rs6,000; in Hotel Melody, superior room Rs2,600, deluxe Rs2,800 and executive Rs3,100. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/owners-wary-as-hotels-turned-isolation-centres-without-training-84095
