13-04-2020||Muktsar||Mukatsar SSP honours sanitation workers||Actor dons a new roleGurdaspur: Actor Arjun Partap Singh, member of the Gurdaspur Zila Parishad, is on a mission to serve the poor. Son of MLA Fateh Jang Bajwa, Arjun has set up a social organisation, "Satbachan", which distributes ration, milk and medicines among the needy. He has an army of volunteers who visit every nook and corner of the town to identify those in distress. "Carve your name on hearts, not tombstones. This is the reason 'Satbachan' was born. The pandemic has taken over our lives and many people are on the verge of starving. We should do everything we can to bail them out," said Arjun.Their message: Stay indoorsAbohar: The district police have recruited volunteers to help them enforce the curfew. The young volunteers, wearing white T-shirts, will patrol rural areas on two-wheelers and educate people about the significance of staying indoors amid Covid crisis. The idea is the brainchild of Abohar DSP Rahul Bhardwaj, who in consultation with SSP Harjit Singh, selected 17 volunteers. They have been trained by Khuyiansarwer SHO Sunil Kumar. Their T-shirts carry special message to motivate people to stay indoors.Aid for Covid warriorsFatehgarh Sahib: Khalsa Aid donated 90 personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and other safety gear for the frontline workers battling the pandemic. Deputy Commissioner Amrit Kaur Gill, SDM Dr Sanjiv Kumar and Assistant Commissioner Jaspreet Singh received these kits. The foundation has earlier helped during floods in the state. Thanking the group, MLA Kuljit Nagra and the DC said the NGO was a source of inspiration for others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/mukatsar-ssp-honours-sanitation-workers-70315
13-04-2020||Bathinda||103 samples test negative in Bathinda||A suspected patient, who died at the isolation ward of Advanced Cancer Institute here on Thursady, has tested negative for Covid-19.Meanwhile, a total of 103 samples have so far been collected in the district and all these have tested negative.Civil Surgeon Amrik Singh Sandhu said, “We have been maintaining constant vigil and testing is being done as per the protocol. So far, no positive case has been reported in the district.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/103-samples-test-negative-in-bathinda-70302
13-04-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Budhlada sealed, door-to-door survey on||Tribune News ServiceMansa, April 12‘No Need To Panic’Health teams are going door to door to make people aware of Covid. There is no need to panic, but people must take precautions.Gurpal Singh Chahal, Deputy Commissioner Budhlada town in Mansa district has become a hotspot for Covid in the region as 11 cases has been detected so far. Almost half of the cases are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz, which took place in New Delhi last month.Ten persons from Chhattisgarh had visited a mosque in Budhlada after attending the Delhi congregation. Of them, five tested positive for the deadly virus. With six local persons, who came in contact with them, also testing positive, the town’s tally has reached 11.The health authorities in the district have been conducting tests of close contacts of Covid patients. The district administration has sealed the entry points to Budhlada and deployed the police to stop the movement of people in and out of the town to contain the spread of the virus.Deputy Commissioner Gurpal Singh Chahal said, “Health teams are going door to door to make people aware of Covid and enquiring about the health of their family members. There is no need to panic, but people need to take precautions.”Mansa Civil Surgeon Dr Lal Chand said, “The condition of the 11 Covid patients is normal. All are under treatment in the Civil Hospital, Mansa. They were tested on April 2 and 5. They will be tested again after 15 days.”Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Dr Narinder Bhargav said, “Budhlada has become the Covid hotspot, hence the entire town has been sealed. The state machinery — be it the police or the Health Department or the civil administration — is busy tracing contacts of Covid patients and examining them.”The entire town has been made a containment zone; only medical teams are allowed to move. Residents are receiving essential items on their doorstep.Meanwhile, the administration has been motivating people under home quarantine by organising counselling sessions for them. “The exercise has been started in the police control room. I have asked psychologists, psychiatrists and police officials to counsel such persons to boost their confidence which will give them the courage to fight Covid, the SSP said.Budhlada SDM Aaditya Dachalwal said, “Health teams have started tracing and conducting tests of persons who were in contact of positive patients. In all, 46 tests were conducted on Saturday and 20 on Sunday.”Even those testing negative have been advised to remain under home quarantine for 14 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/budhlada-sealed-door-to-door-survey-on-70287
