13-08-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Fitness enthusiasts opt for cycling, sales pick up||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, August 12The cycle sales have picked up pace across the state as there has been a substantial increase in the number of cyclists ever since the governments started easing lockdown restrictions.Cycle store owners said they were selling every model — from premium to affordable — since the lockdown was eased recently. Post Lockdown Bicycle store owners claimed they were selling around 100-150 bicycles each every month with the price ranging from Rs 3,000 to Rs 1 lakh. While 70 per cent of the bicycles being sold are normal road bikes, 30 per cent are alloy-made, fitted with multi-gear.Pankaj M Munjal, chairman-cum-managing director, Hero Cycles, had tweeted earlier that there was about a 70 per cent surge in the demand of cycles compared to the pre-Covid-19 times.Munjal today tweeted, “For the cycling community, it’s business as usual in these Covid times. Cycling demand has surged 100 per cent over the world. This is the new norm.”Local cycle trader Rajesh Kumar said, “The demand for cycles in the region has gone up post lockdown.” Many other traders claimed to have sold a high number of cycles.Shop owners said there was a rise in sale of bicycles for children too.A standard cycle cost around Rs 3,600. The hybrid range begins from Rs 4,500 and goes up to Rs 1 lakh.Though gyms opened recently, many people are not going there due to Covid-19 fears. They are rather opting for cycling.Shikhar Goyal, a city resident, said he recently bought a cycle to improve his fitness level. “With gyms and swimming pools remaining closed for a long time, I decided to opt for cycling for my fitness while mainting social distancing.”Another resident Sarabjit Singh said, “We want to stay healthy and maintain social distancing as well, so cycling is definitely a better option.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/fitness-enthusiasts-opt-for-cycling-sales-pick-up-125755
13-08-2020||---||Reverse migration behind fresh spread in Bathinda||Bathinda, August 12The Covid-19 cases in the district are on the rise, with 781 cases having been reported in the past 13 days, taking the total number of cases to 933. More than 300 migrant labourers, who returned to work at Guru Gobind Singh refinery in the district’s Rama Mandi have tested positive. Following this, the refinery authorities directed the workers to defer their plan of coming back until the situation returns to normal.A spokesperson for the refinery said the patients were not the employees of refinery, but were employed by contractors. Besides, none of the patients had entered the refinery’s premises.Meanwhile, six workers of a dhaba located on the Goniana road, and one staffer of a hotel have tested positive for Covid-19. The development has triggered panic among residents. Reportedly, the employees who have tested positive are migrant workers who had returned from their native places recently. Subsequently, the area was declared a micro-containment zone.A large number of cases have also been reported from the cantonment area, police stations, AIIMS and the special jail in the district.The biggest spike in the district was reported on August 6, when 112 patients were tested positive. Later, on Augsut 8, 104 persons were found infected.As now the large numbers of patients are admitted to isolation centers in the district. The administration is facing problems in keeping them calm and making arrangements for them.Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan said: “We are taking 1,000 samples every day as against 400 previously. Door-to-door testing with antigen kits in the micro containment zones has been started.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/reverse-migration-behind-fresh-spread-in-bathinda-125758
13-08-2020||---||Bathinda students protest as college ‘demands’ fee||Bathinda, August 12Members of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) today staged a protest outside the main gate of Baba Farid College at Deon village over the demand for fee.The protesters raised slogans against the college management. Members of farmer unions were also present at the protest. Students said the college was demanding fee from them even as physical classes were not taking place.They demanded that the college should take only tuition fee and if any student wants to leave the college, migration fee should not be charged from them.They said if their demands were not met by August 14, they would intensify their protest. Rajinder Singh Dhanoa, Assistant Director, Academics, Baba Farid College, said, “As per the guidelines of the Punjabi University, Patiala, colleges have been asked to start online classes from August 1. So, the management asked the students to take admission and pay the fee.”He said, “We have told students that if they have economic problems, they can submit an application to their class teacher or head of department, so that the management can give them time to pay or even allow them to pay fee in instalments.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-students-protest-as-college-demands-fee-125764
13-08-2020||Our Correspondent||6 hurt as four vehicles collide||Abohar, August 12At least six persons were hurt after four vehicles collided near Khuyiansarwer village on the Abohar-Sriganganagar highway on Wednesday afternoon.Bajrang Dal activists, who rescued the injured, said a truck coming from the Kashmir valley collided with a canter (mini truck), tractor and a bike.Six persons were injured and shifted to private and government hospitals here. Their condition is stable now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/6-hurt-as-four-vehicles-collide-125769
13-08-2020||---||Now, Faridkot Maharaja’s grandchildren move Supreme Court||Faridkot, July 12In what seems to be an unending dispute over the property of late Maharaja Harinder Singh of the erstwhile Faridkot estate, his grandchildren have now approached the Supreme Court, challenging the High Court verdict in which a daughter of the late Maharaja was awarded one-third share in the property worth over Rs 25,000 crore.Jai Chand Mehtab and his sister Nisha Kehr, children of late Deepinder Kaur, a daughter of the Maharaja, have challenged the High Court verdict issued about a month ago.After the High Court verdict in her favour, Amrit Kaur had got a criminal case registered against 23 persons, including Jai Chand and Nisha, for forging her father’s will to deprive her of her share in the property.In her complaint, Amrit Kaur had alleged that to plunder and misappropriate her father’s vast properties, Deepinder Kaur and 22 other persons had forged a will and used it to create a Trust. They imposed themselves as office-bearers and their family members and relatives were controlling the Trust for the past over 30 years, plundering the late Maharaja’s properties.Though a Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Punjab Police, constituted to investigate the allegations in the FIR, is yet to make a headway, the accused have challenged the High Court verdict. This case is listed for August 13 in the Supreme Court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/now-faridkot-maharajas-grandchildren-move-supreme-court-125757
