16-04-2020||Sameer Singh||Double blow for dairy farmers in Punjab, milk prices down, input cost up||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, April 15The dairy industry in the region seems to be heading into choppy waters amid Covid-19 scare. Dairy owners rue that not only have their sales dwindled significantly, but also the rates of milk in the wholesale market have come down drastically. Also, transportation of green fodder, wheat husk (tudi) and cattle feed has also got affected, resulting in increased diet cost of cattle, which the farmers claim that they won’t be able to bear for a long time.According to the dairy farmers in the Malwa region, on one hand, production cost has increased owing to curfew restrictions and on the other hand, rates in the wholesale market have dropped drastically.Talking to The Tribune, Atma Singh, president of the Malwa Dairy Farmers’ Association, said, “Earlier, milk was sold for Rs45 per litre and above in the wholesale market as against below Rs30 per litre at present. Owing to the arbitrary stance of wholesale buyers, we have to sell our milk at lowered rates and if we try to bargain with them, they tell us to spill the milk wherever we want. Many farmers have even curtailed the diet of their mulching cattle, but it will end up affecting the health of cattle.”“Initially, we faced a lot of trouble when supply of cattle feed was cut completely, but later with the administration’s intervention, things improved,” said Singh.Vikramjit Singh, another dairy farmer at Naam Dev Road in Bathinda, said, “I have more than 80 mulching cattle. At this juncture, I can neither sell them nor would I be able to bear the increased production cost for a longer duration.”Another dairy farmer said, “After hotels, restaurants and confectionery shops stopped buying milk after curfew, things have turned upside down for me. The price of green fodder, cattle feed, wheat husk etc have seen a jump of 40 to 60 per cent approximately.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/double-blow-for-dairy-farmers-in-punjab-milk-prices-down-input-cost-up-71601
16-04-2020||---||In Bathinda, 91 booked in drug cases since curfew||Bathinda, April 15Three policemen were caught involved in drug smuggling in separate incidents amid curfew in the district. These incidents point towards the new modus operandi of peddlers, who in order to evade action, have reportedly started luring cops.In one incident, a smuggler took along a constable to sell drugs at Gosal village in Rampura Phul. They were nabbed by the villagers and handed over to the police. A video of the incident was posted on social media. The constable, Bhupinder Singh, has been dismissed.In another incident, ASI Mander Singh deputed at Talwandi Sabo police station along with his associate Manga Singh of Jodhpur Pakhar village was held with 750 gm of poppy husk at Jodhpur Pakhar village in Maur. He has been suspended and further investigation is on.In the third incident, two peddlers and constable Hardeep Singh were reportedly nabbed by residents near Ballianwali village. The locals alleged that the accused had come to sell chitta in the village. The constable has been suspended, but no case was registered against him as the drug was not recovered from him.As per information, the district police have registered 60 cases of drug smuggling and booked 91 persons between March 20 and April 12. Of the 91, the police have arrested 85 persons.During this period, the police seized 722 gm of heroin, 60 kg of poppy husk, 686 bottles of illicit liquor, 3 gm of smack, 4,443 intoxicant pills, 70 litre of lahan and 640 gmof opium.SSP Dr Nanak Singh said, “There is no laxity in vigilance against peddlers even during the curfew.”The Seizure||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/in-bathinda-91-booked-in-drug-cases-since-curfew-71613
16-04-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Closed offices, no passes, farmers made to wait with produce in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, April 15The tall claims made by the state government about arrangements for procuring wheat in the rural areas of the district have fallen flat, as at many grain markets, the market committee offices were lying shut down. Resultantly, farmers kept waiting to sell their produce on day one of the procurement.Exposing the preparedness of the district administration, some farmers alleged that they had not got passes to sell their produce, whereas at many grain markets, no market committee officials were seen present.Shingara Singh Mann, district president of the BKU (Ekta Urgahan), said “Farmers usually bring a combine harvester machine to the fields, harvest the crop and then take it directly to the grain markets to sell it further. This practice is adopted because most farmers don’t have the space to store their produce at their homes. Now, since only 50 quintal of crops can be sold at a time, most farmers are in a fix.”Mann said: “In villages, no arrangement has been made for wheat procurement, as many farmers are without coupons and also officials are not present at the grain markets for purchasing the crop.”Jagmail Singh of Jhumba village said: “It is afternoon now and I have been waiting for the market committee officials to come to the grain market since 10 am, but no official has arrived so far.”Jagsir Singh, a farmer, said: “Since farmers are allowed to bring 50 quintals of crop to the grain market at a time, they have to store the remaining crop in their houses. This adds to the financial burden.” DC B Srinivasan said: “The process will be streamlined after April 17.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/closed-offices-no-passes-farmers-made-to-wait-with-produce-in-punjab-71588
