19-10-2020||Bathinda||Five held for liquor theft in Bathinda||The police on Sunday arrested five members of a gang for stealing liquor and recovered liquor, cash and weapons from their possession.Mansa SSP Surendar Lamba said, “As part of a special drive against crime in the district, our teams have busted a liquor-stealing gang and arrested its members along with cash. The gang members used to strike at liquor vends during late evening hours and decamped with cash and liquor.” “Our teams have also recovered a car and an air pistol among other weapons from the possession of the gang members. The accused have been booked,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/five-held-for-liquor-theft-in-bathinda-157709
19-10-2020||---||Women rule the roost at Pbi||Patiala, October 18Women professors at Punjabi University, Patiala, hold key positions in the administrative structure of the university. While Dr Amritpal Kaur, professor, department of literary studies, has taken over the charge of dean academics, which is second in hierarchy to the university VC, various other women professors are holding charge as deans of faculties and departments.Dr Jagroop Kaur, professor, department of political science, is now a dean of the College Development Council, while Dr Ritu Lehal, professor and head, University School of Applied Management, is the dean of faculty of business studies. Also, faculties of social sciences, medicine, law and computing sciences are being headed by women professors — Dr Anita Gill, Dr Gurpreet Kaur, Dr Gurpreet Pannu and Dr Jyotsna, respectively.An official said some key positions, including director of HRD centre and others, were held by women professors. Dr Manruchi Kaur was now the director, HRD centre; Dr Happy Jeji was director, public relations; Dr Ranjit Kaur was director, international students and Dr Monika Chawla was in-charge of the RTI cell.Dr Amritpal Kaur said, “The university has deputed women professors on important positions and delivered a positive message to society. This has sent out a message of equality among men and women and promotes education for the girl child.”“Educated women can make a significant contribution towards sustainable development of both society and nation. More than 65 per cent of girl students are being enrolled in the university every year and the credit goes to the high literacy rate among women of the state. With greater access to higher education, women can break the glass ceiling and reach the zenith of success and glory,” Dr Ritu Lehal said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/women-rule-the-roost-at-pbi-157734
