22-06-2020||Bathinda||Two cops among Bathinda’s six new coronavirus cases||Two policemen were among Bathinda’s six new coronavirus cases on Monday, district officials said.A sub-inspector and a constable posted at Rama police station have tested positive, prompting authorities to sanitise the police station, Bathinda SSP Dr Nanak Singh said.Health authorities are now tracking down their primary contacts to test and isolate.Two other cases from Bathinda are people who recently undertook travel within the state. The third they said had no travel history.At least one of those testing positive on Monday is undergoing treatment in Ludhiana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/two-cops-among-bathindas-six-new-coronavirus-cases-102702
22-06-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||No fiscal package, losses force hoteliers to wind up business||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, June 21At a time when few relaxations have been given to the hospitality sector, several hotels, restaurants and eateries in the state are shutting down their operations. The owners are finding it difficult to bear losses incurred during the lockdown.More than 2,500 eateries and restaurants have closed down in the state. Even banquet hall bookings haven’t been allowed yet, hitting the hotel business hard.Over 2,500 eateries shutAlso, due to a ban on the opening of swimming pools, big hotels can’t even outsource the facility.Punjab Hotel and Restaurant Association president Satish Arora said: “Due to massive losses, more than 2,500 eateries, restaurants and hotels across the state have already been shut, with many more on the verge of closure. The owners of such outlets have been finding it difficult to pay rent, salaries of employees, power bills and other fixed expenses with no income during the lockdown period.”Arora said it had become extremely difficult to survive in the absence of a financial compensation. He sought a suitable package for the hospitality sector to cover losses incurred during the lockdown period.“The sector has been hit hard and the next five to six months are going to be tough. The Central or the state government must announce some package to help the business stay afloat,” he said.Ashwani Malhotra, owner of Saffron Hotel in Bathinda, said: “I have to pay a monthly rent of Rs 2 lakh. It is a huge burden given the fact that I have had no income for the past few months. Moreover, it seems that the hotel industry won’t be able to pick up pace in the coming six months as well. Therefore, I have no option but to shut the hotel to curtail further losses.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/no-fiscal-package-losses-force-hoteliers-to-wind-up-business-102422
22-06-2020||---||Revenue hit, state roadways imposes 25% salary cut||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, June 21The PRTC has imposed a 25 per cent salary cut after failing to generate adequate revenue to cover the losses suffered during and after the lockdown imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.Earlier, the PRTC management was hoping that resumption of bus service would help it in mitigating losses to some extent. However, with only less than 30 per cent of the PRTC fleet plying after the lockdown, the losses kept on mounting.Staff threaten stirOpposing the pay cut, PRTC staffers have threatened to launch an agitation against the management and the state government if their full salaries were not paid.PRTC employees have threatened to launch an agitation against the management and the state government if their full salaries were not paid.Nirmal Dhaliwal, general secretary, PRTC Workers’ Union, said, “Not only there is a 25 per cent deduction, but the salary was also disbursed late. We are aware about the current situation arising out of the pandemic, but the PRTC must claim its outstanding dues from the state government.”“We are all going through tough times, but the 25 per cent salary cut is way too much. We have brought the matter to the notice of the managing director who has assured us that the cut was for only one month. If employees do not get their full salaries, we will not sit back quietly and start holding protests soon.”PRTC managing director Jaskiran Singh said, “With the available funds, we could pay 75 per cent salaries to our employees for May. Losses running into crores of rupees cannot be mitigated so early. We have intimated the state Transport Secretary about the financial crunch in the corporation and a meeting with Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal has been scheduled on Tuesday to discuss the matter.”Of the PRTC’s 1,150 buses, 250 have resumed operation on some routes. With only a few passengers travelling these days, these buses are barely generating revenue to bear operational costs, including diesel, maintenance and repair.The MD said the daily collections had nosedived from Rs 1.25 crore daily to Rs 10 lakh. “We are awaiting funds from the state government,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/revenue-hit-state-roadways-imposes-25-salary-cut-102424
22-06-2020||Sameer Singh||Three months on, rural dispensaries still shut||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, June 21A majority of subsidiary health centres (rural dispensaries) in the Malwa region are lying closed for over three months post lockdown as rural medical officers (RMOs) have been assigned duties in quarantine centres, isolation wards and flu corners.Amid Covid-19 spread, patients are finding it difficult to travel to block level or district hospitals in the region. The state Health Department had deputed RMOs from rural dispensaries to provide services at quarantine centres, isolation wards and flu corners amid the pandemic, following which these dispensaries had been lying closed. However, no alternative arrangements have been made to provide health services at villages in the region. As a result, villagers have been facing a lot of problem.Sources said there were 59 rural dispensaries in Bathinda and all of them had been lying closed. Similarly, rural dispensaries in Muktsar, Barnala and Faridkot have also been lying shut. A few dispensaries are functional in Mansa and Moga. There are more than 1,150 rural dispensaries in the state and a majority of them have been lying closed.Talking to The Tribune, Avtar Singh, a labourer from Ganga village in Bathinda district, said, “My son was ill so I took him to a dispensary, but it was closed. I called up my acquaintances for help. Finally, we managed to get a vehicle and reached the Community Health Centre, Goniana.”Vipul Ujwal, Director, Rural Development and Panchayat Department, said, “We have to maintain a balance between providing health services in rural areas and combating Covid. We will work out a possible solution. Currently, we are in talks with the Health Secretary regarding opening of rural dispensaries.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/three-months-on-rural-dispensaries-still-shut-102435
22-06-2020||---||Sarpanch’s spouse dupes youth of Rs 4.9 lakh, held||Bathinda, June 21The Talwandi Sabo police have arrested a man for allegedly duping a youth of Rs 4.90 lakh by threatening him of implicating in a false rape case.The accused, identified as Jagtar Singh, is the husband of the sarpanch of Jagah Ram Tirath village in the district. A complaint in this regard was lodged by the victim.ASI Sadhu Singh, investigation officer, said, Jaswant Rai from the village alleged in his complaint that his son Gurlal Singh had befriended a girl. Jagtar Singh started pressurising the girl to threaten his son of implicating him in a false case, so that he could take money from him in a bid to resolve the matter.Later, the accused started threatening Gurlal that the girl would lodge a false rape complaint against him and after that his entire life would be spoiled. He also told him that he could resolve the matter with the girl.Falling into his trap, the victim gave Rs 4.90 lakh to Jagtar Singh in four instalments. Later, he came to know that the girl had not filed any complaint against him.The police have booked Jagtar Singh and started investigations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/sarpanchs-spouse-dupes-youth-of-rs-4-9-lakh-held-102444
