23-11-2020||Bathinda||Youth shoots self dead after killing ex-girlfriend, her parents in Bathinda||A 22-year-old youth shot dead his former girlfriend and her parents at her house in densely populated Kamla Nehru colony in the city and later he also ended his own life by shooting himself.The deceased have been identified as Simran Kaur (20), her father Charanjit Singh Khokhar (45), who was working as secretary in Cooperative Society Bibiwala village, and mother Jaswinder Kaur (43). The youth has been identified as Yuvikaran Singh of Mansa Khurd village.SSP Bathinda Bhupinderjit Singh Virk said, “Three persons were found murdered at a house today morning after which teams were constituted and police cracked the case within four hours.”SSP Virk said, “In the probe, it came out that Yuvikaran had killed his former girlfriend Simran and her parents and later he killed himself as well.”He further stated that Yuvikaram before going to Simran’s house on Sunday night had recorded his video on his mobile phone. In which, he had alleged his girlfriend was blackmailing him for getting him implicated in a rape case if he did not marry her.In the video, the youth has alleged that he was in a relationship with Simran two years back and sometime back he came to know that Simran was in a relation with one guy from Canada due to which he broke up with her.Later, she started harassing him to get married. When he did attend her calls, then she started calling and harassing his parents. Irked over which, he took this step.The SSP also stated that police have also seized a weapon used in the crime. This is the licensed weapon registered in the name of his brother. After his death, the family members of Yuvikaran cremated his body without informing anyone.The incident took place on Sunday night at around 8.30 pm but came to light on Monday morning when the milkman came to deliver milk but no one answered the door despite ringing the bell repeatedly. After which he asked the people living nearby about them and later they informed the police.After getting the information, police reached the spot and went inside the house, where they found bodies of three persons lying in the lobby of the house.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/youth-shoots-self-dead-after-killing-ex-girlfriend-her-parents-in-bathinda-174624
23-11-2020||---||Contract staff to participate in Delhi stir||Bathinda, November 22Contract staff from various government departments, under the banner of the Theka Mulazam Sanghrash Morcha, today protested the non-fulfillment of their demand for regular jobs, besides announcing full support to farmers’ nationwide protest call on November 26.Holding black flags and donning black clothes, protesters marched through the city. “It’s ironical that the state government claims to provide one lakh jobs when it’s privatising and restructuring government departments and reducing posts on a large scale. The Congress came to power promising regular jobs to contract workers in government departments. However, it has failed to honour its pre-poll promises,” said Jagrup Singh, a union leader.Union leaders said they would lend support to farmers by participating in the protest in New Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/contract-staff-to-participate-in-delhi-stir-174463
23-11-2020||Sameer Singh||Non-operational thermal plant leaves Bathinda lakes dirtier||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, November 22Three lakes in the city are bearing the brunt of the closure of Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant here, as the water is no longer being used to generate electricity. As a result, water recycling is not happening and the water is getting dirtier with each passing day. Besides, the water level has receded up to 15 feet in the recent past.Personnel of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), who train in the lake water, have complained of skin diseases.Commandant Ravi Kumar Pandita of the 7th battalion of NDRF, said, “Since the lake water could not be recycled on account of closure of the thermal plant, it is getting dirtier. In the long run, it will pose serious risk to our personnel. The training sessions which usually start in April and continue till October can’t be organised due to the Covid-19 spread and partly due to the unclean water. Apart from training, our personnel also carry out rescue operations by fishing out persons who jump in lakes here.” Pandita requested the authorities concerned to provide a solution on priority.”One of the divers said, “We are developing skin allergies because of the contaminated water in the lakes. People living in nearby ‘jhuggis’ also pollute the water. The local administration must come up with a comprehensive plan to ensure that lake water remains clean.”A senior retired officer of the Bathinda thermal plant said, “Once touted as the ‘city of lakes’, Bathinda is failing to preserve its old glory. Thermal lakes that once added a unique aesthetic appeal to the city are falling prey to the apathy of officialdom. Not only are the lakes getting contaminated, but their water levels are also receding drastically.”Devinder Pal Garg, Chief Engineer, Bathinda and Lehra thermal plants, said, “The thermal land has been transferred to PUDA, and we will bring the matter to their notice. We can reach a solution and for that all we need are heavy outlet water pipes to release the lake water in a canal to maintain the water levels.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/non-operational-thermal-plant-leaves-bathinda-lakes-dirtier-174468
23-11-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Bambiha gang being ‘funded’ from Canada||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, November 22A special task force has arrested a Bambiha gang member, Jagdeep Singh, of Moga, with a US-made pistol from the Adarsh Nagar area of the city. In his initial interrogation, Jagdeep has revealed gang member Sukha Singh of Dunike village in Moga was funding the group from Canada to strengthen its criminal activities in Punjab.SSP Bhupinderjit Singh Virk said: “We have arrested a Bambiha group associate with a weapon and it has come to light that Sukha from Canada is funding the group. We will follow it up.”The SSP said Jagdeep got recently associated with the group. The police have registered a case against four others gangsters — Beant Singh of Mandi Mustafa in Moga, Rajwinder Singh of Muktsar, Dharminder Singh of Goniana and Sukha Singh of Duneke village in Moga — at the Cantt police station.Task force in charge Jasvir Singh said SI Gurdeep Singh got a tip-off that Jagdeep and others linked to the group, with a large quantity of arms, were planning a strike. The police later arrested Jagdeep from the city. Sukha was aiding gangsters to purchase weapons to carry out criminal activities in the state, he said. Jagdeep has been remanded in two-day police custody for questioning.In 2016, gangster Davinder Bambiha was killed in a four-hour police encounter near Rampura Phul in Bathinda district. Bambiha (25), a native of Moga district, was an accused in 20 cases of murder, attempt to murder, extortion and dacoity.Despite the encounter, his group continued to be active in the state. In 2018, a poultry-farm owner, Hardev Singh Gogi Jattana, was shot allegedly by the gang members on the Phul-Gill Kalan village road in Rampura area.Claiming Jattana to be an informer, the gang members later claimed responsibility for the killing on their Facebook page, saying Sukhpreet Budda Kussa and Aman Jaito carried out the killing.Claiming to have avenged Bambiha’s killing, they said the 2016 encounter happened on a tip-off by Jattana to the police. The gang members face around 40 cases in Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan.Faces 40 Cases in three states||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bambiha-gang-being-funded-from-canada-174495
