26-09-2020||---||Farmers block major highways, essential supplies hit||Patiala/ Moga/Faridkot/Amritsar/Bathinda, Sept 25A bandh call given by farm organisations over the three contentious farm Bills brought life to a standstill in Bathinda, Jalandhar, Patiala, Moga, Ferozepur, Fazilka, Barnala, Faridkot, Muktsar, Mansa, Bathinda and other districts across the state today.Ferozepur division suspends spl trainsThe supply of essential commodities was badly hit and fruit and vegetable markets remained closed in all cities and towns of the Malwa belt. The other markets also did not open throughout the day.Patiala and its surrounding towns observed a complete bandh following farmers protesting on roads and blocking all major state and national highways passing through it. Barring an untoward incident near the Shambhu barrier, where an Army convoy was stopped by some people, no major violence was reported.Farmers held protests on many roads and highways throughout the day. All markets wore a deserted look for the entire day and only shops of essential commodities opened late evening.In Bathinda and Mansa, shops in almost all areas remained closed. Farmers blocked the Bathinda-Zirakpur national highway at Rampura Phul, Bathinda-Amritsar national highway at the Kahniya chowk, and the Bathinda-Mansa road among others.Buta Singh Burjgill of the BKU (Dakonda) said: “People have given us full support by voluntarily closing shops. This is a historic movement as state’s people have extended support to farmers over the issue”.Punjabi singers Sidhu Moosewala, Amrit Mann, R Nait and Korala Mann joined farmers in Mansa.In Nabha, Punjabi folk singers led by Harbhajan Mann announced they would continue the fight until the farmers got their due. Besides Mann, Tarsem Jassar, Ranjit Bawa, Kulwinder Billa and Harjit Harman extended their support to the farmers and staged a sit-in for hours. The public transport remained off road.In Moga, farmers blocked the rail and road traffic on the national highway at Dagru village on the border of Moga and Ferozepur. All trains remained off the track. The Ferozepur Railway Division suspended all special trains in Punjab, J&K and HP till tomorrow as a precautionary measure.Railway officials said the “rail roko” agitation had badly affected the transportation of foodgrains and other essential goods. In total, at least, 25 trains had been affected in the Ferozepur railway division. At Badhni Kalan, activists of at least 15 trade unions staged a protest and blocked the highway.Almost all national and state highways in the Malwa belt were blocked by the protesters. The link roads were open.In Faridkot, a complete bandh was observed. Almost all shops and commercial establishments remained closed in Faridkot, Kotkapura, Jaito towns. Various farmer organisations and political parties blocked the National Highway on the Amritsar-Bathinda road and farmers sat on the Faridkot-Ferozepur road.In Amritsar, farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee continued their 'rail roko' protest for the second day by blocking train tracks near Devidas Pura village.A complete shutdown was observed in the city which wore deserted looks and shops were closed. Showing solidarity with them, the SGPC shut down its offices and institutions for the day. SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said the Centre should review this move and revoke it keeping in view the farmers’ cause at the ground level. Kar Sewa Baba Kashmir Singh Bhurewale arranged food for the farmers.ExpertspeakCentre must allay fearsIt is the responsibility of the Centre to remove all apprehensions that farmers may have. In a democracy, you can’t steamroll and change policies. The Centre must realise that this can destabilise Punjab. Let the policy makers initiate a dialogue with farmers. - Sardara Singh Johl, Economist & Padma Bhushan AwardeeWill have adverse impactThe very fact that 31 farmer unions have launched a joint protest speaks volumes about angst in farmers. Even Khet Mazdoor Union and Zameen Prapti Sangharsh Committee, that have otherwise been hostile towards farmers, have lent support. Centre must intervene or it may have adverse consequences for the entire country. - Prof Gian Singh, Farm EconomistFarmers will uproot Modi govt, says YadavMansa: All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee coordinator Yogendra Yadav, while addressing farmers here, said if the farm Bills were not rolled back, farmers would “uproot Narendra Modi’s wicket”. “Punjab farmers have started a fight for second Independence. The first wicket fell in the shape of lone SAD minister quitting the Modi government. Haryana Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala will have follow suit soon.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/farmers-block-major-highways-essential-supplies-hit-146691
26-09-2020||Bathinda||Bathinda man held for killing daughter||A man has been arrested for allegedly killing his 28-year-old daughter at Goniana Khurd village here.The married woman, Manpreet Kaur, had moved into her parents’ house after separation. The Nehianawala police station was informed about the alleged murder by members of a local NGO. After initial investigation, the police arrested Davinder Singh. The police have sent the body to the Civil Hospital for post-mortem and are further investigating the matter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-man-held-for-killing-daughter-146708
26-09-2020||Sameer Singh||Once Bathinda’s hotspot, it’s curtains for Sukhraj Cinema||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 25Unable to recover the Covid-19-induced losses, the four-decade-old Sukhraj Cinema, a single-screen theatre in the city, has shut its operations permanently. The dismantling of the cinema hall building, that was operational since the 1980s, has already started.Film aficionados, including students from other Malwa districts, would often throng the cinema, among other single-screen theatres, to watch movies. Bathinda city gained unprecedented popularity after movie buffs from neighbouring districts started coming here, thereby giving a push to the local cinema industry. Subsequently, the city witnessed mushrooming of single-screen cinemas. But the onset of multiplexes meted out a severe blow to the single-screen theatres, hurting their business prospects irreparably. Many of them have already closed down over the past decade.Moviegoers in the city said between 1980 and 2000, Sukhraj Cinema was the hot favourite single-screen theatre. Talking to The Tribune, Jagjit Singh, an ardent movie lover in the city, said: “During my school days, I used to watch movies at Sukhraj Cinema. It showcased movies before any other cinema in the city after their countrywide release. And if the movie was a hit, movie buffs would even buy tickets in black.”Shivjant Singh, manager of the theatre, said after the irreparable losses suffered due to the lockdown and the restrictions thereof, they had decided to dismantle the cinema hall’s building.It was a gut-wrenching experience for Amarjit Sharma, who claims to be associated with the film world for the past over 20 years. Sharma once operated a canteen inside the cinema building. He also worked at the bicycle stand here and later, sold tickets at the counter. When the decision to shut operations was taken, Amarjit shifted and started selling tea right outside the cinema building.While narrating his experience, Amarjit said: “I still cannot believe that the theatre that provided me livelihood for the past 20 years is getting dismantled. After gatherings were prohibited by the government in the wake of Covid, there was no source of income for the cinema hall as electricity and water bills, among other expenses, kept mounting.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/once-bathindas-hotspot-its-curtains-for-sukhraj-cinema-146715
26-09-2020||Bathinda||Steno, 2 conductors in Vigilance net for fraud||A team of the Vigilance Bureau (VB) arrested a stenographer and two conductors posted with the Punjab Road Transport Corporation (PRTC), Bathinda depot, for a fraud with the corporation and private contractors.VB officials said acting on a complaint by Ajmer Singh, a resident of Guru Nanak Nagari, Malout, they conducted an investigation which indicted stenographer Yashpal Goyaland conductors Pradeep Kumar and Baljit Singh.The complainant alleged that the depot had conducted an auction of 17 shops located near the Bathinda bus stand. As per the prescribed rules of the corporation as well as the state government, the interested parties were required to deposit refundable security fee to the tune of Rs 10,000 per shop to the cashier and this amount was to be returned to the unsuccessful bidders after the auction process.Harpal Singh, Mahesh Singh, Jagdish Kumar and Surinder Kumar had deposited Rs 10,000 each to conductor Pradeep Kumar and he had issued temporary receipts to the bidders. However, after the completion of the auctioning process, the security amount was not returned to the unsuccessful bidders.A VB spokesperson said the amount was neither shown in the cashier’s register nor deposited in the government treasury. A case has been registered at the VB police station, Bathinda, under Sections 409, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 and 120B of the IPC to probe the allegations of embezzlement. Further investigation in the matter is underway. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/steno-2-conductors-in-vigilance-net-for-fraud-146716
