27-04-2020||Bathinda/Amritsar||Stranded pilgrims return from Hazur Sahib||A group of pilgrims from Hazur Sahib, Nanded, reached Punjab today. The pilgrims had gone to Hazur Sahib in March and were stuck there due to the lockdown.Eight buses reached the state of which seven came to Bathinda and one through Abohar in Fazilka. The administration conducted the medical check-up of the pilgrims and they were given snacks, water, masks and sanitisers.Meanwhile, another bus with 41 pilgrims reached Amritsar today. Civil Surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said after a medical check-up, all were found to be asymptomatic but were recommended to stay in 14-day home quarantine as a precautionary measure. Baljinder Singh and Tarsem Singh, who belong to Amritsar and Jandiala Guru, respectively, and came back in the bus, said, “We started the journey at 8.15 pm from the Nanded gurdwara yesterday. We had medical certificates issued by the Nanded medical authorities. Still, we were ready for a medical test here and were asked to go under home quarantine,” they said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/stranded-pilgrims-return-from-hazur-sahib-76715
27-04-2020||---||Truck ferrying 72 labourers seized in Bathinda||Bathinda, April 26The police intercepted a truck illegally ferrying 72 Punjabi labourers on their way to Ludhiana from Gwalior (Madhya Pradesh) on Sunday. The truck was intercepted on the Bathinda-Amritsar highway here. The labourers were sent to a quarantine camp.The truck driver, identified as Jagdish Singh from Madhya Pradesh, was arrested on the charge of violating the lockdown guidelines and trying to smuggle the labourers. He reportedly dropped many persons en route. The truck owner, Jagmal Singh, has also been booked. During the interrogation, the driver reportedly claimed that the truck owner had directed him to ferry labourers from Madhya Pradesh and drop them at Ludhiana. Bathinda City DSP Gurjit Singh Romana said, “The Punjabi labourers had gone to Gwalior for some work. As the lockdown was imposed, they got struck there.”The police had traced the persons, who the truck driver dropped on the way to Bathinda, he said.In another incident, the police have booked a man from the district’s Akalia Jalal village, for escaping from a quarantine centre by scaling a wall on Thursday night. The accused, identified as Ranjit Singh, was later arrested and booked under Sections 188, 269, 271 and 506 of the IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act.The case was registered on a complaint by village sarpanch Lakhvir Singh. He said 18 persons had gone to Madhya Pradesh for agricultural work during the lockdown. On their return, they were examined and put under quarantine in a school. On the night of April 23, one of them Ranjit Singh fled from by scaling a wall.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/truck-ferrying-72-labourers-seized-in-bathinda-76714
27-04-2020||---||Shut in peak season, air cooler industry feels heat||Bathinda, April 26The air cooler manufacturing industry in the region is on a precarious footing after the lockdown was imposed in the wake of Covid-19.The manufacturers in Bathinda, which is the hub of air cooler manufacturing in the region, said they had already suffered huge losses after remaining shut for 25 days during the peak season and now with every passing day, they could do nothing but stare at mounting losses. They said the government must allow manufacturing and selling of coolers so that the losses could be mitigated to some extent.Notably, there are 88 small and large-scale cooler manufacturing firms and 22 others which make parts of coolers in Bathinda. They supply goods to Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan. The peak season for selling coolers begins in March and continues till May-end.Manufacturers said they had not witnessed a complete shutdown of operations like this in the past 40 years.Talking to The Tribune, Anil Goyal, president of the Malwa Cooler Association, said, “It is high time the government gives us permission to resume manufacturing and selling as we have already missed out on crucial few weeks during the peak season. If the government fails to do so, the cooler industry is set to hit the lowest ebb in decades and there is a possibility that many of us may shut our operations permanently.”As per records available with the association, the livelihood of more than 6,000 workers depends on the industry.“The cooler is a necessity and not a luxurious item like air-conditioners which everyone cannot afford. People living in slums also buy coolers to protect themselves from scorching heat in the summer season,” said Ankit, a cooler manufacturer in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/shut-in-peak-season-air-cooler-industry-feels-heat-76712
27-04-2020||Bathinda||FM, Union Secy in Twitter war||Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Sunday had a Twitter spat with the Additional Private Secretary of the Ministry of Finance And Corporate, Astik Sinha, over Central grants to the state.The incident happened when veteran journalist Rajdeep Sardesai, after his discussion with Manpreet Singh Badal on his live show, posted on Twitter, “Punjab Finance Minister claims the state has just got Rs71 crore from the Centre to fight Covid. Rs71crore!! That’s crazy.”To this, Astik Sinha commented on his Twitter handle, “Fact check: Punjab received Rs638.25 crore post-devolution revenue-deficit grant, Rs247.50 crore as first instalment of Central share, SDRM fund of Rs823.16 crore and Rs1.2 lakh crore GST compensation.”Manpreet again posted, “Repeat: Punjab has received only Rs71 crore from the Centre to combat Covid-19.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/fm-union-secy-in-twitter-war-76709
27-04-2020||Sameer Singh||Losses mounting, no infra to house workers: Industry||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, April 26Owners of small and medium scale industrial units are finding themselves in a quandary as a majority of them do not have the required infrastructure and resources for in-house accommodation of workers as mandated by the government in the wake of Covid-19.‘CAN'T VEAR EXTRA COST’I cannot afford the additional cost on the accommodation and transportation of workers, especially at this juncture… Not a single case has been reported in Bathinda. The government should give relaxation to the industry.Raman Watts, IndustrialistIndustrialists have sought relaxations from the government saying neither they had the infrastructure nor they could afford to comply with conditions laid down by the government.MSME owners in Bathinda said unlike big corporates, they had limited resources and low budgets. Talking to The Tribune, Raman Watts, one of the industrialists, said: “I cannot afford to bear additional costs of in-house accommodation and transportation of workers, especially at this juncture. Moreover, a majority of small and medium scale manufacturing units in Bathinda do not have adequate infrastructure or space and stuffing workers inside factories will again compromise the precautionary measure of social distancing. Not even a single positive case of Covid has been reported in Bathinda. The government and administrative machinery could have given relaxations to industry to resume its operations.”Another industrialist from a transformer-manufacturing firm said, “With permission for only 50 per cent workforce, we will not be able to maintain production flow which will result in increased costs. Also, providing medical insurance for employees will add to the expenses.”There are more than 227 small, micro and medium scale units whose owners submitted a representation to the state government to intervene in the matter and provide a viable solution.The industrialists met Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal and demanded a solution to the problem. Badal assured them of taking up the matter during the Cabinet meeting scheduled on April 29.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/losses-mounting-no-infra-to-house-workers-industry-76704
