30-11-2020||---||NRIs pitch in with funds to aid farmers' protest||Bathinda, November 29Worried and shocked over the use of force on farmers, non-resident Indians (NRIs) have started sending them financial aid. Raja Dhaliwal of Canada’s “World Financial Group” has donated around 50,000 Canadian dollars (Rs 25 lakh) to keep the langar going and meet farmers’ other needs. They have given the money to Ravi Singh of Khalsa Aid.Dhaliwal, releasing a message through video-conferencing, said the donation was dedicated to the doctrine of Guru Nanak Dev. He said they stood by farmers and would continue to raise economic, community and political support for them.Similarly, three NRIs, Lakhbir Singh, Ekam Singh and Gorkha Singh — residing in Manila (the Philippines), have sent Rs 1 lakh to the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Dakonda) a few days ago. They have assured more assistance in the days to come.Meanwhile, Punjabi leaders abroad continue to condemn the police action against the farmers who were marching peacefully towards Delhi.Canada’s Defence Minister Harjit Sajjan has tweeted: “The reports of peaceful protesters being brutalised in India are very troubling. Many of my constituents have family there and are worried about the safety of their loved ones. Healthy democracies allow peaceful protest. I urge those involved to uphold this fundamental right”.NDP leader in Canada Jagmeet Singh has tweeted: “The violence perpetrated by the Indian govt against farmers peacefully protesting is appalling. I stand in solidarity with the farmers from Punjab and across India… I call on the Indian govt to engage in peaceful dialogue rather than violence”.UK MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi has tweeted: “I stand with farmers of the Punjab and other parts of India, including our family and friends, who are peacefully protesting against the encroaching privatisation of #FarmersBill 2020”.Standing by farmers, Andrea Horwath, Leader of the Ontario New Democratic Party, said: “Everyone deserves to be able to exercise their democratic rights without the fear of state-sanctioned violence.”Earlier, NRIs in Canada, Italy, the USA, the UK and France have expressed support for farmers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/nris-pitch-in-with-funds-to-aid-farmers-protest-177807
30-11-2020||Bathinda||Vigilance likely to probe blood transfusion case||Even as the district Health Department is conducting departmental probe into the issue of HIV-positive blood transfusion at the blood bank of the Civil Hospital in Bathinda, the state Vigilance department is expected to begin probe into the matter. Notably, Punjab State Child Rights Commission had raised concern over how the matter was being handled and had also sought a report from the Director, Health and Family Welfare, on November 27.An official said a senior official of the state Health Department had asked for the probe report and other vital documents related to the HIV-positive blood transfusion from the district Health Department which was expected to be shared with the Vigilance Department. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/vigilance-likely-to-probe-blood-transfusion-case-177815
