07-08-2020||Business||Pledged gold to fetch more||Individuals can now borrow more against their gold jewellery. The RBI on Thursday raised the loan-to-value (LTV) ratio in gold loans for non-agricultural purposes to 90 per cent from 75 per cent. LTV is the proportion of the collateral value which can be financed. Thus, an LTV of 75 per cent means that banks and non-banks can lend up to 75 per cent of the value of the gold ornaments or jewellery pledged by an individual. This has now been raised to 90 per cent. The central bank expects this enhanced LTV ratio will help borrowers tide themselves over their temporary liquidity mismatches on account of Covid  19. However, this relaxation will be available till March 31, 2021. “Gold loan is an easy product and people can avail this loan over the counter within 30 minutes. At the same time banks and NBFCs will have to have strong risk management to ensure this easing is used effectively,’’ Saurabh Kumar, head of gold loans at IIFL Finance, said. Non-banking finance companies and banks have a major share of the organised gold loan market. Recently, IDBI Bank had announced the launch of four specialised gold loan branches as it looked to cash in on more individuals taking such loans. Equitas Small Finance Bank is also offering gold loans through easy documentation and instant cash. It is giving loans with an average ticket size in the range of Rs 30,000 to Rs 40 lakh. The maximum tenure for any scheme is 24 months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-321
07-08-2020||Business||RBI announces one-time loan restructuring mechanism||The RBI on Thursday conceded to a major demand of banks labouring under the burden of a moratorium scheme and announced a one-time loan restructuring mechanism. This facility will be available to advances made to individual borrowers and corporate loans. In a separate step, the central bank allowed banks to restructure their exposure to micro, small & medium enterprises (MSMEs). Announcing the new framework, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das disclosed that the central bank will provide a window under the prudential framework spelt out in the June 7, 2019 circular to enable lenders to implement a resolution plan in respect of eligible corporate exposures without change in ownership and personal loans while classifying such exposures as standard “subject to specified conditions”. Necessary safeguards will be built into this facility which will include prudent entry norms and clearly defined boundary conditions, specific binding covenants, independent validation and strict post-implementation performance monitoring, he added. Only those borrower accounts shall be eligible for resolution that were classified as standard but not in default for more than 30 days with any lending institution as on March 1, 2020. The resolution plan may be invoked any time till December 31 and shall have to be implemented within 180 days from the date of invocation. Lenders will have to keep additional provisions of 10 per cent of the post-resolution debt. There will be specific voting thresholds even for invocation of the resolution plan. Lenders who do not sign the inter-creditor agreement within 30 days will have to make a higher provision of 20 per cent. An expert committee has been constituted under K.V. Kamath which shall make the recommendations on the required financial parameters, along with the sector specific benchmark ranges for such parameters, to be factored into each resolution plan. Ficci president Sangita Reddy said they were happy with the measures announced towards the resolution of loans. “We keenly look forward to the details and execution,” Reddy said. This expert panel will also have the responsibility of vetting the resolution plans to be implemented under this window in respect of all accounts where the aggregate exposure of the lending institutions at the time of invocation of the resolution process is Rs 1,500 crore and above. A final notification in this regard shall be issued by the Reserve Bank after considering the recommendations. While the loan moratorium scheme announced by the RBI will end on August 31, veteran bankers like Deepak Parekh of HDFC have been calling for a one-time restructuring scheme as bad loans could spike in the second half of the current fiscal even as extending the current moratorium could lead to moral hazard. The RBI has itself projected that the gross non-performing asset (GNPA) ratio of banks may rise to 14.7 per cent by March 2021 if the macro-environment worsens further. Under the June 2019 framework, any resolution plan that involves relaxation in terms of repayment to a stressed borrower would lead to an asset classification downgrade (banks would then have to make higher provisions), if it is not accompanied by a change in ownership. The central bank said that it is coming out with the scheme as the Covid-19 pandemic could impair the entire recovery process, posing significant financial stability risks. However, the latest resolution window will be available only to those who are under stress because of the pandemic. For personal advances, the resolution plan would include rescheduling of payments, conversion of any interest accrued, or to be accrued, into another credit facility, or, granting of moratorium, based on an assessment of income streams of the borrower, subject to a maximum period of two years. The moratorium period, if granted, would come into force immediately upon the implementation of the resolution plan. In the case of other loans, if there are multiple lending institutions that have exposure to the borrower, the resolution process will be treated as invoked if these entities representing 75 per cent by value of the total outstanding credit facilities, and not less than 60 per cent of the lending institutions by number agree to invoke the plan. “The loan book under moratorium stood at ~50 per cent at system level as on April 30, 2020 and almost all lenders have reported further decline in loan books under the second phase of moratorium. With expectations of further reduction in moratorium in coming months, and proposals to have necessary safeguards around these restructuring, we expect such loan restructuring is unlikely to exceed 5-8 per cent of the overall loans at system level,” Anil Gupta, sector head-financial sector ratings at Icra, said while commenting on the restructuring framework. Das also said that restructuring of MSME debt would continue till March 31 next year to help alleviate the Covid-related stress on the sector. Here, the RBI stipulated that existing loans to MSMEs classified as standard may be restructured without a downgrade in the asset classification, subject to various conditions. While the aggregate exposure, including non-fund based facilities, of banks and NBFCs to the borrower should not exceed Rs 25 crore as on March 1, 2020, the borrower’s account should also be a “standard asset” as on March 1, 2020. Further, the borrowing entity should be GST-registered on the date of implementation of the restructuring. However, this condition will not apply to MSMEs that are exempt from GST-registration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-321
07-08-2020||Business||Inflation poses bigger threat to revival of tottering economy||The RBI on Thursday kept the policy repo rate unchanged as it wanted to cool down inflation before offering stimulants to revive a tottering economy. All the members of the Monetary Policy Committee  (MPC) voted to keep the repo rate and reverse repo rate unchanged at 4 per cent and 3.35 per cent, respectively, at the end of their three-day meet. Retail inflation was above 6 per cent in June, while the economic picture remained dismal with both industrial production and service sector activity showing contractions. The MPC forecast a negative GDP growth for the fiscal but did not commit itself to a specific number. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said the MPC is conscious that its primary mandate is to achieve the medium-term target for CPI (consumer price index) inflation of 4 per cent within a band of +/- 2 per cent, despite the growth gloom.  “The MPC decided to keep the policy rate on hold while remaining watchful for a durable reduction in inflation to use available space to support the revival of  economy.” Das cited a number of reasons why inflation remained a major concern: food prices are high on account of the severe disruptions caused by the lockdown and the floods in eastern India. High taxes on petroleum products, hikes in telecom charges and rising raw material prices have generated cost-push inflation. “While space for further monetary policy action is available, it is important to use it judiciously to maximise the beneficial effects for underlying economic activity.’’ The RBI has cut the repo rate by a cumulative 115 basis points this year on top of a 135-basis-point-reduction last year. Das said the MPC chose to hit the pause button to allow commercial banks to play catch-up with its earlier cuts. “The cumulative reduction of 250 basis points is working its way through the economy, lowering interest rates in money, bond and credit markets, and narrowing down spreads,” Das said. He said monetary transmission had been strong with the weighted average lending rate (WALR) on fresh rupee loans sanctioned by banks declining  162 basis points during February 2019-June 2020, of which transmission during March-June was as much as 91 basis points. “Spreads of 3-year AAA-rated corporate bonds over similar tenor government securities have also declined from 276 basis points on March 26, 2020 to 50 basis points on July 31, 2020.Even for the lowest investment grade bonds (BBB-), spreads have come down by 125 basis points as on July 31, 2020,” the RBI governor  said. CII president Uday Kotak said the status quo in rates was understandable given the liquidirty deluge. Realtors, however, were disappointed. Surendra Surendra Hiranandani, chairman and managing director, House of Hiranandani. said the RBI needed to drastically and aggresively lower interest rates and make them "enticing for home buyers."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-321
07-08-2020||Business||Banks get relief on mutual fund exposures ||The RBI has reduced the amount of capital that banks must set aside while putting money in debt mutual funds and debt exchange-traded funds (ETFs). According to the current guidelines, if a bank holds a debt instrument directly, it has to allocate a lower capital compared with holding the same debt instrument through a mutual fund. At present, bank investment in these instruments are treated on a par with that in equities in terms of providing a specific risk capital because of which they have to set aside more funds. However, if the lender was to hold the debt instrument directly, a lower risk capital must be provided against the investment as they are done on the basis of the rating of the debt instrument. RBI will now harmonise this differential treatment. Murthy Nagarajan, head-fixed income, Tata Mutual Fund, says: “The move should see good amount of flows in the mutual fund industry and stabilise bond yields. Mutual funds normally sell in quarter ends to meet redemption request of banks. However, no measures in terms of increasing held-to-maturity Limits or an OMO calendar is a negative for the bond market.” The relaxation will not only lead to more bank investment in debt mutual funds, but will also have a positive impact on the corporate bond markets, feels Unmesh Kulkarni, MD of Julius Baer India. “The announcement to harmonize the capital charge (for market risk) treatment of investment by banks in debt mutual funds or ETFs and direct debt instruments, augurs well for the bond market, as there could be higher participation by banks in the bond markets over a period of time’’ Unmesh Kulkarni, Managing Director Senior Advisor, Julius Baer India said. However, the RBI pointed out that since in the event of default of even one of the debt securities in its investment basket of a debt mutual fund, there could be severe redemption pressure, banks will have to maintain a `general market risk charge of 9 per cent’. Despite this, the central bank added that when it comes to the total computation of capital charge, there will be substantial capital savings for banks which will also give a boost to the bond market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-322
07-08-2020||Business||RBI: Curbs on current account ||The central bank on Thursday said that banks will not be allowed to open new current accounts for customers who have already availed themselves of credit facilities in the form of cash credit or overdraft and all transactions shall be routed through his existing account. Cash credit (CC) is a short term loan, while overdraft (OD) is a type of funding where the customer can withdraw money by paying a certain interest even if his account balance is zero. The move has been taken to instil credit discipline after the RBI noticed that many borrowers were circumventing rules by operating multiple current accounts and cash credit/overdraft accounts. In case of customers who have not availed of CC/OD facility from any bank, banks may open current accounts under specified rules: for borrowers where exposure to the banking system is Rs 50 crore or more, banks shall be required to put in place an escrow mechanism. Accordingly, current accounts of such borrowers can only be opened/maintained by the escrow managing bank. However, there is no restriction on opening of “collection accounts” by lending banks if the funds are remitted from these accounts to the escrow account at the frequency agreed upon. In case of borrowers where exposure to the banking system is Rs 5 crore or more but less than Rs 50 crore, there is no restriction on opening of current accounts by the lending banks. Similarly, in cases exposure of the banking system is less than Rs 5 crore, banks may open current accounts subject to obtaining an undertaking that the customer will inform the bank, if and when the credit facilities availed becomes Rs 5 crore or more. Where a bank’s exposure1 to a borrower is less than 10 per cent of the exposure of the banking system to that borrower, while credits are freely permitted, debits to the CC/OD account can only be for credit to the CC/OD account of that borrower with a bank that has 10 per cent or more of the exposure of the banking system to that borrower. Funds will be remitted from these accounts to the said transferee CC/OD account at the frequency agreed between the bank and the borrower.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-322
07-08-2020||Business||Vodafone loss widens to Rs 25,460 crore ||Vodafone Idea, the country’s third-largest telecom operator, on Thursday reported a sharp rise in its losses to Rs 25,460 crore for the April-June quarter of 2020-21 because of the high provisioning for statutory dues. The losses stood at Rs 4,874 crore in the year-ago period. Revenue from operations came in at Rs 10,659.3 crore for the first quarter of 2020-21 against Rs 11,269.9 crore in the same period of the previous year, according to a regulatory filing. Net loss against exceptional items stood at Rs 5,537 crore. The company said it has recognised an additional charge of Rs 19,440.5 crore in the June quarter towards adjusted gross revenue (AGR) liabilities. “During this quarter, on prudence, we have recognised a charge of Rs 194.4 billion as an exceptional item towards the total estimated AGR liability, in addition to estimated recognised liability of Rs 460.0 billion as on March 31, 2020,” a company statement said. Gross debt (excluding lease liabilities) stands at Rs 1,18,940 crore, including deferred spectrum payment obligations of Rs 92,270 crore due to the government. Cash and cash equivalents were Rs 3,450 crore and net debt stood at Rs 1,15,500 crore against Rs 1,12,520 crore in the fourth quarter of 2019-20, the operator said. The company said the first-quarter numbers were impacted by the nationwide lockdown because of coronavirus. Ravinder Takkar, MD and CEO of Vodafone Idea, said, “Q1FY21 was challenging as availability of recharges because of store closures and ability of customers to recharge on account of the economic slowdown were impacted.” “We have launched a cost optimisation initiative that will drive further cost-savings. We also continue to actively engage with the government seeking a comprehensive relief package for the industry, which faces critical challenges,” he added. The average revenue per user (ARPU) declined to Rs 114 in the April-June quarter from Rs 121 in the January-March quarter. Rivals Reliance Jio and Bharti Airtel have reported good traction from tariff hikes introduced in the third quarter of 2019-20. Bharti’s ARPU has increased 22.7 per cent since the second quarter of 2019-20, while Jio’s ARPU is up 16.9 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-322
07-08-2020||Business||Bata turns austere on capex plan||Footwear major Bata will remain conservative on capital expenditure and expansion as the pandemic-induced lockdown has affected demand for shoes and led to a decline in footfall at  the company’s retail stores. With more than 1,500 stores, Bata will evaluate the expansion of its own stores and prefer to go more for the franchisee model. In manufacturing, the company had invested around Rs 11 crore for the upgradation and modernisation of its manufacturing unit at Batanagar in Bengal last year. But unlike the usual capex spend, the focus this year would be on managing the existing capacity of 21 million footwear pairs per annum along with cost control initiatives. The company is also realigning its product offering to cater to the increasing demand for open and washable footwear and expanding its e-commerce presence. “A substantial part of the renovation and modernisation is done. The situation right now is unique. We have capacity available and at the same time we don’t want to lose out on the surge in demand when the market recovers,” Ashwani Windlass, chairman of Bata India, told The Telegraph on Thursday, adding that the company would not go “too boldly out” for capex at present. Addressing shareholders at the annual general meeting of Bata India, Windlass said, “Given the social distancing norms and the shift to work-from-home, there would also be an impact on lifestyle products and, accordingly, on the company,”adding that the actual demand recovery will be concurrent with the overall economic situation. “There is still some more time to go before we can see a complete reinstatement of pre-Covid state of affairs,” Windlass said. The company, however, remains optimistic about the end-of-season sale and the upcoming festive season with expectations of higher footfall. “Our omni-channel home delivery offerings cover more than 900 stores pan India. We are continuously ramping up our online presence across India. We have also realigned our product offerings to cater to the demand for open footwear and washable footwear,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-322
07-08-2020||Business||Eveready rating gets an upgrade||Eveready Industries has received the first “upgrade” after a gap of three years from credit rating agency India Ratings & Research (Ind-Ra), signalling a directional change for the dry cell battery maker which has been bogged down by group debt problems. Ind-Ra, a Fitch Group company, cited improving profitability led by growth in the battery business and improving credit matrix apart from increasing stake by the Burman family as the key drivers. The EIL stock touched a fresh 52-week high on the bourses on Thursday, closing the session with a gain of Rs 6.65 at Rs 139.80 on the NSE, after hitting the upper circuit ceiling of 4.99 per cent. The stock has rallied 73 per cent from the end of July 13, a day before the Burman family of Dabur raced past the promoter group to become the largest shareholder of EIL. The Burmans now have a shade under 20 per cent in Eveready compared with a little over 15 per cent held by the promoters. Ind-Ra upgraded the long term issuer rating by one notch to ‘Ind-BB+’ from ‘Ind-BB’ with a positive outlook. The BB rating indicates elevated vulnerability to default risk, particularly in the event of adverse changes in business or economic condition over time; however, business or financial flexibility exists that supports the servicing of financial commitments. “The upgrade reflects EIIL’s improved liquidity position aided by deleveraging in 2HFY20, coupled with sustained profitability in FY20. The positive outlook reflects Ind-Ra’s expectations of a further improvement in EIIL’s business profile and its liquidity position in FY21, backed by the improving performance of its battery and flashlight segments, a possible resolution of the contingent liability issue and the possibility of a managerial/board representation by the Burmans.” Ind-Ra said. The last upgrade Eveready received was on August 9, 2017 when Ind-Ra had profiled it at ‘Ind AA-’. The company witnessed multiple downgrades in 2019 as the promoters — the Khaitan family of Williamson Magor Group — got trapped in a downward debt spiral. They borrowed heavily on the strength of the balance sheets of EIL and McLeod Russel and by pledging their shares in these two firms and lent forward to cover the losses in McNally Bharat Engineering Co Ltd. Noting expansion of margin due to combination of factors — benign commodity prices, sharp decrease in imports from China leading to increased product prices — Ind-Ra expects EIIL’s profitability to continue to improve in FY21 on the increased contribution from the battery and flashlight businesses and the discontinuation of the loss-making tea business.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-322
07-08-2020||Business||RBI: Priority loans for start-ups||The RBI on Thursday brought start-ups under the priority sector lending (PSL) category as it looked to encourage bank investment in this segment. The surprise move from the central bank comes after the government tightened foreign direct investment (FDI) rules for firms or entities who share a border with India as it sought to monitor investments from Chinese firms, which according to reports have funded more than two dozen start-ups in India. While the RBI did not disclose details, it said tersely in the statement that it is broadening the scope of PSL to include start-ups. The PSL guidelines were last reviewed in April 2015. The central bank added that these guidelines have been reviewed with a view to align them with emerging national priorities and bring sharper focus on inclusive development. Apart from facilitating banking support to start-ups, the RBI said it would increase the credit borrowing limits for renewable energy sectors and the targets for lending to “small and marginal farmers” and the “weaker sections” under PSL. Under PSL, eligible entities get access to credit on easier terms from banks. Banks are required to assign 40 per cent of the adjusted net bank credit to the priority sector, including agriculture and micro-enterprises. Despite the RBI relaxation, it remains to be seen if start-ups will turn to banks apart from other sources such as incubators, angel investors or venture capital funds. At present, lenders such as Bank of India (BoI) provide funding to start-ups (having turnover of up to Rs 25 crore or not completed five years) up to Rs 5 crore. “Shortage of risk capital in India had led the foreign private equity to fund most Indian start-ups. Inclusion of start-ups in the priority sector lending category is a welcome move,” Navneet Munot, chief investment officer of SBI Mutual Fund, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-322
07-08-2020||Business||RBI set to offer loan resolution mechanism||The Reserve Bank of India on Thursday decided to keep interest rates unchanged, forecast negative real GDP growth for the year and braced for elevated inflation in the second quarter. The RBI signalled that there would be no extension of the loan moratorium regime beyond August 31 but decided to put in place a loan resolution mechanism with some tough conditions to address concerns within the banking sector over a looming bad loan crisis. A committee headed by banking doyen K.V. Kamath will recommend the financial parameters and relevant thresholds that will be factored into the resolution plans, Das said. Eligible corporate borrowers and individuals who have taken personal loans will be able to invoke the resolution plan at any time till December 31 but must implement it within 180 days. The priority sector lending guidelines will be rejigged to remove regional disparities in the flow of credit while the ambit of the programme is being widened to cover start-ups. Borrowers who pledge gold ornaments with banks and non-banking finance entities will be entitled to get higher loans as the loan-to-value ratio is being raised to 90 per cent from 75 per cent earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-322
