08-08-2020||Business||Emami margins rise amid lockdown||FMCG player Emami has surprised the Street by expanding its margin and registering a growth in net profit in the first quarter despite a sharp drop in revenues as a lockdown caused disruptions in the business environment in April and May. Gross margin increased by 230 basis points during April-June on a year-on-year basis, while the EBIDTA margin zoomed 487 bps compared with the same period a year ago. Revenue was down 25.7 per cent to Rs 481.34 crore from Rs 648.64 crore a year ago, while profit after tax inched up 1.2 per cent to Rs 39.58 crore compared with Rs 39.12 crore in the June quarter of 2019. The Emami scrip jumped 8.14 per cent to close the week at Rs 257.65, a new three- month high, after the numbers were announced. Mohan Goenka, director of Emami Limited, said the company is on a growth path from June onwards, including a double-digit jump in July. “Our margins grew because of the stringent cost control measures and all our new products performed well, particularly the personal hygiene and immunity building categories. Going forward, we expect the growth momentum to continue,” Goenka said. Emami made a slew of launches under the Zandu brand as consumers were spending more on wellness and immunity-boosting products during the pandemic. Edelweiss Research in a note said 43 per cent of Emami’s portfolio, which is aligned to the health and hygiene range, grew 29 per cent while the rest declined 44 per cent year-on-year. Harsh Agarwal, director of Emami, said the Zandu healthcare portfolio grew 23 per cent and new launches contributed 5 per cent to the revenue. “The discretionary products such as 7 Oils, Kesh King and Navratna,  which suffered during April and partially in May, have since recovered since May,” Agarwal said. Even though the first quarter witnessed a dip in advertising by over 50 per cent, the company plans to spend as much as last year, indicating a higher adspend in the next three quarters. It will continue with a slew of launches. Birla Corporation’s June quarter profit fell 53 per cent to Rs 66 crore from Rs 141 crore a year ago. Revenues were also down 35 per cent to Rs 1,241 crore. Construction activities in urban areas have been affected because of a substantial reduction in workforce during the lockdown. Cash profit declined 44 per cent to Rs 172 crore in the first quarter from Rs 305 crore in the year-ago period. Bata India has suffered a consolidated net loss of Rs 100.88 crore for the June quarter of 2020 as sales were hit by the nationwide lockdown. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 100.97 crore a year ago. Revenue from operations was down 84.69 per cent to Rs 135.07 crore from Rs 882.75 crore a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-321
08-08-2020||Business||Uber suffers $1.78bn loss as Covid made millions stay at home||Uber lost $1.78 billion in the second quarter as the pandemic carved a gaping hole in its ride-hailing business, with millions of people staying home to reduce the spread of the coronavirus. Its food delivery business grew as more people ordered in, but that booming part of its business didn’t turn a profit. The San Francisco-based ride-hailing giant brought in $2.24 billion in revenue during the second quarter, down 27 per cent from the same time last year, on a constant currency basis, the company said on Thursday. Uber’s mobility business, which includes ride-hailing and micro-mobility options such as scooters and bikes, saw its revenue shrink to $790 million, down 67 per cent from $2.38 billion a year ago. “While we would have all hoped that by now we had a clear line of sight to the end of the pandemic, hope is not a strategy and it’s my job to ensure that Uber is well prepared for any scenario,” CEO Dara Khosrowshahi said in a conference call with investors on Thursday. Uber’s Eats delivery business — once just a fraction of the company — brought in $1.21 billion in revenue during the quarter. That was up 103 per cent from $595 million in last year’s second quarter. As some people stay closer to home, more people are ordering from Uber Eats than ever before, Khosrowshahi said. “The Covid crisis has moved delivery from a luxury to a utility,” he added. Gross bookings for Uber’s mobility business plummeted 73 per cent from the same quarter last year. Its delivery business grew 113 per cent on a constant currency basis, but did not turn a profit, instead losing about $232 million during the quarter. Uber’s quarterly losses included $382 million in restructuring and related charges as the company laid off 6,700 people — a quarter of its workforce — in May. Uber said at the time that it would be closing or consolidating 45 offices worldwide. Its revenue fell in the US and across the world except in the Asia-Pacific region. Uber said it still expects to become profitable sometime in 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-321
08-08-2020||Business||Mindspace REIT makes market debut at 10.5% premium||The successful launch of India’s second REIT with an issue size of Rs 4,500 crore and its listing on the bourses at more than 10 per cent premium on Friday will encourage more builders to monetise their rent yielding commercial assets through this route, according to industry experts. The units of the REIT listed at Rs 304, reflecting a gain of 10.54 per cent from the issue price on the BSE. During the day, it touched a high of Rs 308.90, zooming 12.32 per cent. Later, it closed at Rs 303.87, up 10.49 per cent. On the NSE, it closed at Rs 303, a gain of 10.18 per cent after debuting at Rs 302, a rise of 9.81 per cent. The company's market valuation was at Rs 18,020.04 crore on the BSE. In volume terms, 18.45 lakh shares were traded on BSE and 2.70 crore on NSE. The Rs 4,500-crore public issue of Mindspace Business Parks REIT was subscribed nearly 13 times late last month. The participation of retail investors will also increase in future REITs, enabling them to earn dividend income from fully leased and listed commercial real estate, they added. Mindspace Business Parks REIT, which is owned by K Raheja and Blackstone, made its market debut on Friday, with a premium of nearly 11 per cent against its issue price of Rs 275 per unit. The units of the REIT are listed at Rs 304, reflecting a gain of 10.54 per cent from the issue price on the BSE. This is India’s second REIT. The first Embassy Office Parks got listed in April last year after raising Rs 4,750 crore. Commenting on the listing, Jonathan Gray, president and chief operating officer of Blackstone, said: “Blackstone is honoured to be partners with the Rahejas to help create India’s second public REIT. Like Embassy last year, Mindspace has tremendous assets and a real commitment to producing shareholder value.” Anarock chairman Anuj Puri said, “REITs are good news for investors who have a small appetite and yet want to invest in the otherwise highly cost-intensive commercial real estate (CRE) market. With REITs, they can literally take a small bite of the large Indian CRE pie.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-321
08-08-2020||Business||Mahindra & Mahindra quarterly profit nearly wiped out||Mahindra & Mahindra saw its quarterly profit nearly wiped out as the Covid-19 pandemic hit the supply chain. The company’s net profit fell 94 per cent year-on-year to Rs 54.64 crore in the quarter ended June 2020 against a net profit of Rs 894.11 crore in the same period last fiscal. Revenue from operations during the quarter under review stood at Rs 16,321.34 crore against Rs 26,041.02 crore in the year-ago period, down 37 per cent. The automotive segment posted a revenue of Rs 6,508.6 crore in the first quarter, down from Rs 13,547.84 crore in the same period a year ago. The farm equipment segment’s revenue was Rs 4,906.92 crore against Rs 6,077.9 crore in the same quarter last fiscal. The group’s operations and financial results for the quarter have been adversely impacted because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the consequent lockdown due to which operations were suspended for part of the quarter and gradually resumed with requisite precautions, M&M said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-321
08-08-2020||Business||Mahindra & Mahindra to cut SsangYong stake||Mahindra & Mahindra has decided to reduce its stake in SsangYong Motor Company (SYMC) of South Korea to less than 50 per cent. It is also open to the possibility of ceding control over SYMC “in full or in part, at one time or over time”. According to M&M’s annual report for 2019-20, as on  March 31 2020, its investments in SYMC stood at Rs 2,450 crore, while its ownership interest was at 74.65 per cent. In April this year, the board of M&M had rejected a proposal to inject any fresh equity into the Korean arm. The management and labour union of SYMC had sought a funding of 500 billion won ($406 million) from the domestic auto major over the next three years. Mahindra had acquired SsangYong in 2010 but failed to turn it around despite several attempts. In a regulatory filing to the stock exchanges, M&M said its board on Friday has agreed to take shareholder approval through postal ballot for the reduction its shareholding in SYMC to less than 50 per cent “and/or for cessation/extinguishment/change/modification of control of the company over SYMC, in full or in part at one time or over time”. M&M added that it wanted  the approval so that it can induct potential investors into SYMC or to otherwise meet the funding requirements of SYMC through other sources. Meanwhile, chairman Anand Mahindra said the Mahindra group will continue to invest in successful businesses and prepare for the future by nurturing and investing in verticals that have a potential of over a billion dollar market cap, while “appropriate action” is being taken on those that do not live up to expectations. Addressing the company’s shareholders at the annual general meeting, Mahindra said the Covid-19 pandemic had turned lives upside down and the economy faces an uncertain future. He, however, added that it has given “us an opportunity to reboot our thinking, to reinvent our approach and to recommit ourselves to our financial goals”. Recollecting how the group navigated what it “appeared to be in the worst of times” in 2002 when the share price of M&M had come down to Rs 56, he said the group took action to turn things around with a ruthless focus on financial returns.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-321
08-08-2020||Business||RBI's gold loan plan raises credit risk for banks||The Reserve Bank of India’s decision to raise the loan-to-value ratio on gold loans has sparked concerns about a higher credit risk for banks. The RBI on Thursday raised the permissible loan-to-value (LTV) ratio for gold loans for non-agricultural purposes to 90 per cent from 75 per cent. Gold prices have been rising but could moderate in the near future and an LTV of 90 per cent on the value could reduce the value of the collateral if the prices go down, analysts said. LTV is the proportion of the collateral gold, which can be financed by banks. The pandemic and the ensuing lockdown have devastated the world economy, raising the lure of gold as a safe haven asset. However, Brickworks Rating said the RBI move raises the credit risk as the collateral available in the form of gold ornaments or jewellery may not be sufficient to fully cover both the principal and interest components of the loan. “Gold loans would result in a negative carry for banks as the total exposure will exceed the value of the pledged gold. It could adversely impact the recoverability and asset quality in the case of a weakening in the borrower credit risk profile or sharp decline in prices,” Brickworks director Vydianathan Ramaswamy said. The risk for banks is for a limited period as the scheme is valid till the end of this fiscal year. Besides, the loans are usually over a short period of three months to two years. “With gold prices close to their peak a higher LTV does pose additional risk, and lenders may choose to offer the higher LTV to shorter tenure loans and to customers who have a higher credit score,” V. Swaminathan, joint president — government business & gold loans, Kotak Mahindra Bank, said. Gold prices fell to Rs 55,845 after hitting a record high of Rs 56,191 per ten gram in intra-day trade on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-321
08-08-2020||Business||RBI names four members to debt recast panel||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday named four members to the KV Kamath committee which will work on the details of the one-time debt restructuring plan for individuals and companies having stressed accounts because of Covid-19. The debt recast plan will be introduced as soon as the loan moratorium ends on August 31. Two of the four members chosen to the Kamath panel — Diwakar Gupta, vice-president of the Asian Development Bank, and Canara Bank chairman T.N. Manoharan — will join the panel after they finish their current assignments. While Gupta will join on September 1 after his tenure at the ADB ends, Manoharan will join earlier on August 14 after he completes his term as chairman of Canara Bank. The other two members  are Ashvin Parekh, managing partner at Ashvin Parekh Advisory Services, who will be the strategy adviser; and Sunil Mehta, CEO of the Indian Banks’ Association, will be the member secretary. The panel will submit its recommendations to the central bank, which may make some modifications and notify the recommendations within a month. The RBI on Thursday announced a debt recast plan for individuals and firms that have turned defaulters on account of Covid-19, which will be based on the norms of its resolution plans for  stressed assets released in June last year, called the Prudential Framework on Resolution of Stressed Assets issued on June 7, 2019. The panel will set the financial parameters for the resolution of the stressed assets. The recast panel will also undertake the process validation for the resolution plans in respect of all accounts with an aggregate exposure of Rs 1,500 crore and above at the time of  invocation. The RBI has said lending institutions should ensure the resolution under the one-time facility is extended only to borrowers facing stress in their accounts because of Covid-19. Accounts which do not fulfil the required eligibility conditions may be considered for resolution under the prudential mechanism of June 2019. On personal advances, the RBI said only those borrower accounts shall be eligible for resolution that were classified as standard but not in default for more than 30 days with the lending institution as on March 1, 2020. A resolution should be invoked not later than December 31, 2020 and must be implemented within 90 days from the date of  invocation. For the other borrowers, the RBI had said if there are multiple lending institutions with exposure to the borrower, the  resolution process shall be treated as invoked if the institutions representing 75 per cent by value of the total outstanding credit facilities and not less than 60 per cent of lenders by number agree to the exercise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-321
