09-08-2020||Business||Abbott India reports 54% rise in net profit||Drug firm Abbott India has reported a 54.22 per cent rise in its net profit at Rs 180.35 crore for the June quarter of 2020. It had posted a net profit of Rs 116.94 crore a year ago. Revenue from operations stood at Rs 1,064.27 crore for the quarter under consideration. It was Rs 998.89 crore for the same period a year ago. Meanwhile, Drug firm Divi’s Laboratories has reported an 80.61 per cent rise in consolidated net profit at Rs 492.06 crore for the June quarter of 2020 mainly on account of robust sales. The company had logged a profit of Rs 272.44 crore in the year-ago period, Divi’s Laboratories said in a filing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-320
09-08-2020||Business||SpiceJet flies to Toronto from New Delhi||Budget carrier SpiceJet has made its maiden long-haul charter flight to Toronto, Canada, from New Delhi, carrying 352 stranded nationals and permanent residents of that country. The airline used a wide-bodied A330 Neo aircraft procured from Hi Fly, a Portuguese charter airline, on wet lease. The carrier is the first Indian budget airline to operate a long-haul flight to North America. Chairman and MD Ajay Singh said the airline has operated flights across the globe repatriating close to 85,000 people and transporting over 28,000 tons of medical and essential supplies in these troubled times. Being the first Indian budget airline to operate a non-stop long-haul flight to North America is a proud moment for the SpiceJet family.” The budget carrier has got a slot at London’s Heathrow Airport to operate daily flights from India to London from September 1. However, details have not been made available so far. It has also been allowed to fly on India-US routes by the Centre under the bilateral air bubble. The flight schedules on this route have not yet been worked out, so far. All international commercial air passenger services in India are suspended since March 22, in the wake of travel restrictions due to the COVID-19 pandemic. However, various evacuation and charter flights are being currently operated to fly back stranded Indians in various countries and also transport foreign nationals, who are stuck in India, to their countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-320
09-08-2020||Business||Duty shield for MSMEs||Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Saturday  said the government would consider increasing duties on sectors that are heavily dependent on imports to encourage domestic industry, especially MSMEs. “India needs to manufacture more (to increase volume) and this will result in lower prices. An increase in import duty will encourage Indian manufacturers. When the production is in bulk, the cost will be competitive,” Gadkari said at a virtual summit organised by Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). The minister did not specify the type of products. Gadkari said industries must identify the imported products and the obstacles in their domestic production to improve the ease of doing business. He asked the CII to identify the issues faced by MSMEs in the country. “The CII should identify where our MSMEs and small scale industries can create a market in India and what are the sectors where we can increase exports,” the minister said. In the last few months, the government hiked the import duty on items such as bamboo, used in making agarbatti, to 25 per cent from 10 per cent to encourage the use of local bamboo. The minister said the move will give jobs to 25-30 lakh people. Gadkari urged industry to identify the sectors heavily reliant on imports, particularly from China. Asserting that a case study is in the offing based on three years of imports and exports, Gadkari said China’s 70 per cent exports pertained to 10 sectors. “MSMEs need to get a market here in India. Dependence on imports (from China) has to be reduced… We also need to upgrade technology, make our ports, rail and roads more efficient,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-320
09-08-2020||Business||Bengal eyes $20 billion investment for logistics||Bengal could attract investment worth $20 billion in the logistics sector by using the state’s unique locational advantage and harnessing its vast network of rail, road and river. The state government has sought feedback from industry to formulate a policy to support the growth of the multimodal logistic sector and realise the investment potential, state finance and industry minister Amit Mitra said. “Bengal is a very attractive proposition in logistics. Several companies have come in and set up logistic parks. The state has abundant land to offer to potential investors,” Mitra said in a colloquium organised by trade body CII. Flipkart, owned by US retail giant Walmart, has taken a 100-acre plot at Haringhata in Nadia to build a logistic park. Hong Kong-based ESR, one of Asia Pacific’s leading logistic firms, is also setting up a park in Uluberia. While the locational advantage — Bengal being the gateway to the Northeast and also a large consumption centre in itself — has always been there, introduction of GST has given a fillip to the logistic sector as companies are now setting up warehouses based on nearness to market rather than for tax benefit. The Centre is also pushing to develop inland waterways to connect north India, Northeast and Bangladesh with Calcutta and Haldia port. Terminals are being built along the river Hooghly up to Benaras to allow loading and unloading of cargo. The new policy plans to harness the inherent advantages and upcoming facilities. It will focus on integrating fragmented logistic sectors, driving efficiency in storage infrastructure, optimising land cost, fostering technology adoption and last mile connectivity and multimodal network. The minister said 16 industrial parks have land to offer to investors, including 300 acres at Haldia and 500 acres each at Kharagpur and Panagarh, adding that are some of the fast developing locations are Durgapur, Siliguri, Malda, Dankuni and Tajpur. Speaking later at the webinar, Vinit Kumar, chairman of Calcutta Port Trust, said ease of doing business, transparency and reliability are key to successful multi-modality models and building up a conducive ecosystem. Kumar also spoke about an upcoming terminal in Balagarh which will be made operational in the next 2-3 months and a terminal in Sahebgunj. "The Indo-Bangla coastal route including Myanmar holds a big potential for the Bengal logistics sector once the Sittwe port in Myanmar becomes operational,” the chairman informed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-320
09-08-2020||Business||Coal auction bids deferred||The due date to express interest to participate in the auction for coal blocks as part of commercial coal mining has been pushed back by over a month. This comes at a time when several objections on ecological grounds have been raised at the Centre’s selection of certain blocks in Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh, resulting in the need to review the initially selected list of 41 coal blocks. In a revised schedule of auction issued on Saturday, the due date for submission of technical bids is now set for September 29, 2020 with the actual auction being planned in the later part of October. The approval of successful bidders is expected by November. The earlier due date for submission of technical bids was August 18, 2020. A technically qualified bidder will subsequently participate in the financial bidding. The government had initially selected 41 coal blocks with a total geological reserve of 16979 million tonnes under the first phase of commercial coal mine auction. The blocks spread across five states — Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Odisha — included a mix of both large and small mines with peak rated capacities (PRC) ranging from 0.5 to to 40 million tonnes per annum. The cumulative PRC for all mines is 225 million tonnes per annum, which is almost equivalent to the annual coal import in the country by volume. The auction was formally announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 18, 2020. But following objections from the Maharashtra government for including the Bander coal mine and a part of the Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve, an ecologically sensitive zone, the block was withdrawn from the auction process on July 17, 2020. The Centre is also considering the Chhattisgarh government’s request for replacing five coal mines in the state with three other mines. This was after a meeting between Union coal minister Pralhad Joshi and state government officials last month. Some of the blocks were part of biodiversity-rich forest area. Industry analysts are, however, concerned that if the bigger blocks in Chhattisgarh are replaced, it could affect bidder interest. In Odisha, bigger blocks such as Chendipada I and II (40mtpa) Machhakata (30mtpa) Brahmanbil and Kardabahal (25mtpa) are likely to attract bids. Coal India expects to end 2020-21 with an overall production of around 650-660 million tonnes in the wake of the disruptions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. The miner had earlier set a production target of 710 mt for the fiscal. “Demand has started to pick up now as the industries have commenced operations,” chairman Pramod Agrawal said at a webinar organised by Bharat Chamber of Commerce. Given the situation, we are hopeful to end the year with 650-660 million tonne of production Coal India had produced 602 million tonne of coal last year as against a target of 630 million tonne.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-320
