10-08-2020||Business||Stick to the target||In the highly commoditised realm of investments, the “right product for the right investor” is a custom that is more honoured in the breach than in the observance. Acquisition of the wrong kind of saving and investment products— clearly, a result of mis-buying — is fairly common. Indeed, this has been a matter of grave concern through the ages and is likely to remain so unless the investment fraternity becomes sufficiently aware of its consequences. In a panic-stricken world ruled by the relentless march of a deadly virus, product suitability has morphed into a true hot button. Its significance is acutely felt in the myriad instances of needless buys we see all around us. An elderly investor buys a risky sector fund, a fresh college graduate holds an endowment insurance policy he will not need anytime soon, while a young professional loses money in agri-commodities he does not understand. Even as you read this article, large quantities of resources are locked into sub-optimal investment products that are actually quite redundant. And while portfolio performance suffers, dense layers of intermediation keep forming. A thousand commissions, brokerages, loads and sundry other charges for such intermediation eat into the average investor’s returns. At the same time, a farrago of myths and untruths accumulates in the market. While many stories on the subject have been written in the past, this may just be the time to revisit it. That is because of Covid-19 and its consequences, which have together wrecked many personal investment plans. This is also the time to look at your own portfolio and ascertain whether you hold unsuitable investment products that discourage efficient performance. You are the final arbiter, remember. In other words, when your personal banker brings up the subject of an NFO (new fund offer), or when your wealth manager discusses a PMS (portfolio management scheme), or when your insurance adviser refers to a pension plan, find out whether you will really gain from it. Does the product truly fill a gap in my portfolio? You need to find the answer to this question, and it needs to be a convincing one. In this context, the following are important considerations: If you are not convinced with the sales spiel, you need to “ditch the pitch” — deliver a firm “No” in turn. Yes, the absence of an affirmative action will rob the insurance executive or the mutual fund distributor of his earnings, but that is not your primary concern. You have to realise that you alone are responsible for your portfolio. Don’t make the latter someone else’s happy hunting grounds — not at the cost of efficient performance. While most ordinary sales propositions are fairly cut-and-dry, some are apparently cobbled together with what can be loosely termed as “freebies”. That moniker typically derives strength from the FMCG industry. Purchase a large bottle of a popular health drink and you will get a small stainless steel cup with it. The latter, as the accompanying product label advertises, works as a gift for the buyer. For the ordinary consumer, it portrays a generous offer; in reality, it is an enticement. FMCG-style freebies mostly come at a cost that is borne by customers themselves. The critical poser here is simple: who pays? The question assumes primacy in the investment space too when, for instance, a mutual fund comes up with an insurance add-on. Such a deal may at first require you to set up an SIP in an equity fund for the long term. It may encompass an insurance value-addition, subject to terms and conditions. Well, we will deliver a caveat here — there must be someone who has to pay the premium for such bundled insurance. As the buyer, you need to find out whether it is you who is merrily paying for it. The well-known story of the curious case of the dog that did not bark in the night has a lesson for investors too. When a pitch for an investment product is made, there will certainly be questions in your mind; you have to ask them before cheques are signed. Only a cautious canine will identify a random burglar before a theft is perpetrated. In recent years, investors who have asked the right questions have been able to avoid irrelevant purchases. Few choices demonstrate this better than mutual funds. There are plenty of me-too funds in the market. If your portfolio has, for example, three large-cap funds, do you really need a fourth one? My point is simple; an additional purchase is justified only if it makes sense. Remember, there is a glaring commonality of objectives — fund managers often tend to chase the same securities in a confined universe. So professionally run portfolios too end up with serious overlaps. The scenario holds true for debt securities as well. The answer does not really lie in product differentiation, contrary to what some investment circles preach. At the end of the day, it makes sense to buy hand-picked and straight-laced products representing various categories of asset classes. An intelligent investor will try to avoid me-too items disguised as nuanced versions from within the same asset class. The writer is director, Wishlist Capital Advisors||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-319
10-08-2020||Business||Recovery signs in housing, fastest in Bangalore||Enquiries on residential housing that had sagged during the early period of the lockdown have now improved and reached 50 per cent of the pre Covid-19 levels. According to a report from Anarock Consultants, the recovery has been the fastest in Bangalore, where current enquiries have reached 70 per cent of the January-February period, followed by Gurgaon at nearly 65 per cent. Employees from IT/ITeS, pharma, manufacturing industries and the government sector are driving the demand. The real estate consultancy firm said that in terms of the preferred budget range, homes priced between Rs 40 lakh and Rs 1.25 crore are attracting a major chunk of the enquiries. Bangalore, Chennai, Ghaziabad and Noida are seeing maximum demand for homes below Rs 1 crore. Anarock said buyers in Calcutta, Bangalore, Gurgaon, Hyderabad and Noida are more inclined towards 3BHKs and upwards, while the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) has seen a higher preference for 2BHKs over the previous 1BHK. “Though site visits are far from the previous levels, the site-visit-to-closure conversion rate has increased considerably as only serious buyers are venturing out, with casual window shoppers fairly dormant currently,” Prashant Thakur, director & head-research, Anarock Property Consultants said. Hyderabad is seeing an average of 15 per cent site visits converting to sales against 8 per cent in the pre-Covid period. Gurgaon, with just 4-5 per cent conversions earlier, is clocking 8-10 per cent. Other cities report similar trends, Anarock said. MMR is witnessing enquiries for homes priced within Rs 60 lakh to Rs 1.2 crore, for property sizes between 400 square feet and 800 square feet carpet area. Addressing shareholders recently at its annual general meeting, HDFC chairman Deepak Parekh had disclosed unsold housing units were already higher prior to the lockdown in the major cities. He said despite the adverse impact of the pandemic, the inherent demand for home  loans continues to remain strong.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-319
10-08-2020||Business||Car makers optimistic of SUV sales ||Car makers are going ahead with their SUV plans despite a surge in interest in small cars. Maruti Suzuki India (MSIL) rolled out its BS-VI S-Cross, while Kia unveiled the Sonet and Toyota its Urban Cruiser as the car makers are optimistic that SUVs will continue to have a good spell. The launches come at a time hatchbacks Alto and Wagon R topped the July sales charts. Commenting on the renewed interest in hatchbacks post lockdown, MSIL chairman R. C. Bhargava said, “The market, at present, seems to favour smaller hatchbacks and petrol and CNG cars. Fortunately, we are well placed for such products.” Maruti’s “refined SUV” S-Cross will have the 1.5-litre K series BS-VI petrol engine and will retail at a price range of Rs 8.39 lakh to Rs 12.39 lakh. South Korean manufacturer Kia will start retail sales of the Sonet during the festive season in India. The Anantapur plant in Andhra Pradesh set up by Kia Motors India will be the company’s global export base for markets in West Asia, Africa, Latin America and Asia, according to Ho Sung Song, president and CEO, Kia Motors Corporation,-. “We have set up a manufacturing facility in Anantapur, Andhra Pradesh, with an investment of $2 billion. Our ambitions in India are not just to satisfy the local market. Our plant will be the global export base to 70 countries. In India, we started our journey with the online booking of our mid-SUV Seltos exactly a year ago. We had a six per cent market share in the first half of this year,” said Song. Toyota is all set to launch the Urban Cruiser, its youngest SUV, which is a crossbadge of Maruti’s Vitara Brezza. The company showcased the car and will launch it in the festive season.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-320
10-08-2020||Business||RIL poised to take big leap in petrochemicals||Analysts are betting big on Reliance Industries’ core oil-to-chemical (O2C) business even as its consumer facing business may be making all the headlines. The O2C business was the worst hit in the first quarter of the current financial year as a slump in the global economy hit crude oil prices and its revenues from the refining segment fell more than half to Rs 46,642 crore. The turnover from the petrochemical business fell 33 per cent to Rs 25,192 crore. Analysts at BofA Securities said in a note that RIL’s O2C business is well placed to generate sustained free cash flow because of inherent advantages and a massive expansion. “Until demand normalises, RIL is looking to maximise throughput, focus on cost by leveraging deep petrochemical integration and continue to focus on domestic fuel marketing,” it said In November last year, RIL confirmed plans to invest Rs 70,000 crore to establish a crude oil-to-chemicals (COTC) complex at the company’s Jamnagar facility. The plan is also to convert the Jamnagar site’s existing fluid catalytic cracking (FCC) unit to a high severity FCC or petro FCC unit, to maximise ethylene and propylene yields “RIL’s strategy is to transform the Jamnagar refinery from a producer of transportation fuels to chemicals. The company wants to achieve a rate of more than 70 per cent in the conversion of crude to olefins and aromatics,” it said. Moreover, the company also commissioned a refinery off-gas cracker in January 2019 at the same site with 1.5-million-tonnes ethylene capacity. The brokerage feels when commodity prices recover, the returns in this segment should improve.
The brokerage added that a key focus for RIL is renewable energy, and for that it intends to build an optimal mix of clean and affordable energy with hydrogen, wind, solar, fuel cells and battery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-320
10-08-2020||Business||Centre's push to promote local production of solar energy faces hurdles||The Centre’s plans to impose a basic customs duty on the import of solar cells and modules to promote domestic manufacturing could turn out to be counter productive for local manufacturers as more than 50 per cent of the installed capacity is located in special economic zones (SEZs). According to manufacturers, a customs duty in the range of 10-20 per cent is being considered with the country importing 90 per cent of the solar equipment, mostly from China. This will be in addition to the safeguard duty of around 15 per cent on the import of cells and modules that has been extended till July 2021. “BCD is a good barrier for blocking unfair trade practices where goods are just dumped into the country. But, unfortunately in the solar sector, manufactures in SEZ are close to 50 per cent of the total capacity. If we do not treat the units in SEZs equivalent to domestic tariff areas, it will be counter-productive to Atmanirbhar Bharat,” said Saibaba Vutukuri, CEO of Vikram Solar. “If BCD comes, it will be in addition to the safeguard duty. A manufacturer would be liable to pay BCD on value addition whenever modules are cleared from SEZs to the DTA (domestic tariff area), irrespective of the fact that the cells or modules are being made in SEZs,” said Avinash Hiranandani, global CEO and MD, RenewSys. Manufacturers with units located in SEZs are instead in favour of an equalisation levy in the range of 0.9-1.5 per cent in lieu of BCD, adjusting for the taxation benefits enjoyed by SEZs compared with the units located outside. The industry is apprehensive that the units located in SEZs have availed tax benefits in the past and BCD imposed would put manufacturing units located outside at a cost disadvantage. “Equalisation levy will set off the benefits availed by the units in SEZs and ensure that units in both SEZs and DTAs are placed on a similar footing,” Vutukuri said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-320
10-08-2020||Business||Khaitan holding in freefall after IndusInd Bank invokes pledged shares||The Khaitan family’s ownership grip over the top group companies withered further after lender IndusInd Bank invoked its pledged shares in Eveready Industries India Ltd and McLeod Russel India Ltd. The promoter holding of the family now stands below 10 per cent in dry cell battery maker Eveready, while it slipped below 20 per cent in bulk tea producer McLeod. IndusInd Bank cornered a 7.82 per cent stake in Eveready and a 7.5 per cent stake in McLeod, respectively, on account of the loan taken by their parent company Williamson Magor & Co Ltd. Following the invocation, Khaitans’ stake will come down to a meagre 7.25 per cent in Eveready, further widening the gap with the Burman family, the promoters of Dabur, who now holds 19.84 per cent in the company. In McLeod Russel, the Khaitan family will be left with an 18.32 per cent share. However, they continue to remain in the management in both the  entities — Aditya Khaitan is at the helm of McLeod and his nephew Amritanshu Khaitan is in charge of Eveready. The Khaitans held 44.11 per cent in Eveready and 42.71 per cent in McLeod as on March 31, 2019 before relentless invocation of pledged shares brought down their holding. Unlike many other shareholders, who invoked their pledged shares and offloaded them in the market — IL&FS sold 7.09 per cent in the market allowing the Burmans to scoop up a large chunk — IndusInd decided to carry the shares on its books, indicating it is possibly expecting further appreciation in the stock prices . Regulatory filings by Williamson Magor & Co suggest that it had extended a corporate guarantee worth Rs 200 crore to IndusInd Bank on behalf of troubled group firm McNally Bharat Engineering Co Ltd during financial year 2015-16. From the next fiscal, the corporate guarantee appeared to have routed through Seajuli Developers & Finance Ltd, an unlisted firm of the group. The amount of corporate guarantee, however, has come down since and it stood at Rs 104.25 crore as on March 31, 2019, according to the latest data available. On Saturday, IndusInd informed the stock exchanges that the equity shares of Eveready and McLeod Russel held by Williamson Magor and Co were pledged with the bank for securing the outstanding dues of Seajuli Developers & Finance Limited (Seajuli), the borrower company. “The bank has invoked the pledge held on the aforesaid shares for the recovery of its dues from Seajuli,” it noted. Going by the closing prices on Friday, IndusInd Bank’s combined holding in the two entities would stand a shade above Rs 93 crore. The control of the family is apparently slipping away at a time the Williamson Magor Group — founded by late Brij Mohan Khaitan — is seeing some good tidings in the business, which in turn is having a galvanising effect on their stock performances. The Eveready stock has risen 80.45 per cent from July 13, a day before the Burman family announced increasing their holding by 8.48 per cent. Since then, the company also received a credit rating upgrade from India Ratings & Research, the first in three years. Ind-Ra had cited improved liquidity position aided by deleveraging, sustained profitability, an expectation of further improvement in business profile and its liquidity position this fiscal, a possible resolution of the contingent liability issue and the possibility of a managerial/board representation by the Burman family. McLeod, too, is inching towards a resolution of its debt problem as two of the top lenders agreed to a comprehensive recast, buoyed by soaring prices of tea this season. The possibility of a resolution and a spike in tea prices propelled the stock to Rs 13.30 on Friday, multiplying from the low of Rs 1.84 seen on March 25, 2000. “The soaring stock prices appear to be providing the shareholders an opportunity to invoke their pledged shares and make good of the outstanding loan,” a market participant noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-320
10-08-2020||Business||BPCL selloff doubt this fiscal||The strategic sale of the  government’s 53 per cent stake in state-owned refiner BPCL is unlikely this fiscal, which can impact the Modi-government’s disinvestment targets. Senior government officials were not hopeful of the deal going through in the current fiscal. They said one has to see how the situation develops after September, the new deadline to submit the expressions of interest (EoI). The officials pointed out it takes around 9 months to 12 months for a selloff exercise. If bidders submit EoIs by September, they will get access to the data room to study the financials of the BPCL. Given the restrictions on international travel, it would be naive to expect the global bidders to travel immediately, the officials said. The government has for the third time extended the deadline for the submission of EOIs for BPCL to the end of September, which has put a question mark on the Centre’s ability to achieve the ambitious disinvestment target of Rs 2.10 lakh crore set for the current fiscal. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her budget had stated that the government plans to garner Rs 1,20,000 crore from the selloff in PSUs and another Rs 90,000 crore from the sale of the government’s stake in banks and financial institutions. The ambitious divestment target depends heavily on the proceeds from the strategic divestment of public sector companies such as BPCL, Container Corp and Shipping Corp, along with the listing of insurance behemoth LIC. Analysts said the lower than expected disinvestment collection would have an impact on the fiscal deficit. The fiscal deficit has zoomed to 83.2 per cent, or Rs 6.62 lakh crore, of the full year’s budget estimates by the end of June, hit by poor tax revenues and rising expenditures because of the lockdown. Analysts estimated the stake sale would garner Rs 70,000-80,000 crore to the government. However, with the global oil giants reportedly showing interest, the stake sale could fetch Rs 1.2 lakh crore. Sources have said Saudi Aramco, Abu Dhabi National Oil Co (Adnoc), Rosneft of Russia, Exxon Mobil and Reliance are likely to participate in the bidding. According to the offer for sale, the government is proposing the strategic disinvestment of its entire shareholding in BPCL comprising 114.91 crore equity shares, which constitute 52.98 per cent of equity, along with the transfer of management control to a strategic buyer. The sale excludes  BPCL’s shareholding of 61.65 per cent in Numaligarh Refinery Ltd. The bidding will be a two-stage affair, with qualified bidders in the first EoI phase being asked to make a financial bid in the second round.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-320
