11-08-2020||Business||Equity mutual funds see outflow for first time in 4 years||Equity mutual funds saw their first outflow in four years in July as profit booking by investors saw them making net withdrawals of Rs 2,480.35 crore. In the preceding month, the net inflows into these schemes stood at Rs 240.55 crore. The schemes have been showing a declining trend since April, attracting Rs 11,723 crore in March, Rs 6,213 crore in April and Rs 5,257 crore in May. Data from the Association of Mutual Funds in India (Amfi) on Monday showed that the outflows were maximum in the case of multi-cap funds at Rs 1,033 crore (net outflows of Rs 778 crore in June). It was followed by mid-cap, contra and focussed funds. Barring equity-linked saving schemes that saw an inflow of Rs 279 crore) and focused fund (Rs 535 crore) categories, all the other equity segments witnessed a net outflow. Experts said that the net outflow was because of profit booking by investors amid concerns about expensive valuations in the market despite the rising number of coronavirus cases in India and an economy under contraction. Overall, the mutual fund industry witnessed a net inflow of Rs 89,813 crore across all segments last month, much higher than Rs 7,265 crore seen in June. This inflow has been attributed to the infusion in liquid and low-duration funds. The assets under management (AUM) of the industry as a whole increased 5 per cent to Rs 27.3 lakh crore. Amfi chief executive N. S. Venkatesh attributed the outflow to withdrawal from multi-cap and large cap funds because of profit-booking by investors. He added that investor confidence in the market continues to be robust, going by rising net fresh SIP registrations and overall increase in the average asset under management of mutual funds since the pandemic. Debt mutual fund schemes, he noted, are an attractive proposition, with a benign interest rate environment leading to better yields as also superior risk management by the debt fund managers. “The outlook for the mutual fund flows for the rest of 2020-21 would continue to be encouraging with rising digital-driven inflows, accommodative stance on interest rates by the RBI, improving macro-economic environment and a pick-up in economic activity on the back of easing of lockdown,’’ Venkatesh observed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-319
11-08-2020||Business||Unions call off coal strike after delay in commercial mining auction ||Coal industry unions have deferred a one-day strike scheduled on August 18. The strike was called against the government decision to open up the sector for commercial coal mining by private players. Five central trade unions — BMS, HMS, AITUC, CITU and INTUC — last month declared their decision to go on a one-day strike against issues such as commercial coal mining, disinvestment of Coal India and the wages of contract workers. However, a deferment of the auction process has now prompted the unions to call off the strike for the time being. The auction of blocks earmarked for commercial mining will now take place between October 19, 2020 and November 9, 2020. Difficulties in site visits by prospective bidders because of the lockdown and the need to review the initial list of 41 coal blocks after objections were raised over ecological concerns have led to a delay. “The auction dates have been deferred by the government. So, the strike has also been deferred,” said D.D. Ramandan of the CITU-affiliated All India Coal Workers Federation. “A date has not been fixed yet. The unions will meet in October and take a further call on the strike,” said Nathulal Pandey of HMS. Informally, it has been discussed among the unions that a protest could happen between November 5 and November 9 ahead of the nominated authority of the Centre recommending the successful bidders on November 11, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-319
11-08-2020||Business||Lockdown: passenger vehicle sales skid 25% ||Passenger vehicle sales in July declined 25.19 per cent to 1,57,373 units over the corresponding period last year as the impact of the pandemic on vehicle offtakes continues, the Federation of Automobile Dealers Association (Fada) said on Monday. Pitching for industry-specific policies to boost demand for the speedy revival of the auto sector, Fada president Ashish Harsharaj Kale said as the country continues to open up, July saw better registrations compared with June, though on a year-on-year basis recovery in the auto sector is yet to be anywhere near normal. Two-wheeler sales declined 37.47 per cent to 8,74,638 units last month from 13,98,702 units in July 2019. Commercial vehicle sales declined 72.18 per cent to 19,293 units compared with 69,338 units in July 2019. Total sales across categories declined 36.27 per cent to 11,42,633 units last month against 17,92,879 units in the year-ago month. Current market conditions are still not indicative of the actual demand situation on an all-India level and retail sales continue to decline in huge double digits despite the low base of last year. The rural market, however, continues to show strong sales growth for tractors, small commercial vehicles and motorcycles as monsoon continues its good spell, Kale said. Banks and NBFCs though flush with high liquidity are still cautious about funding, affecting demand revival, especially in the commercial vehicle, three-wheeler and two wheeler segments, he added. Maruti Suzuki India continued to lead domestic passenger vehicle retails in July, followed by Hyundai, Tata Motors and M&M.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-319
11-08-2020||Business||ICICI kicks off QIP issue to mobilise Rs 15,000 cr||ICICI Bank has set a floor price of Rs 351.36 per share for its qualified institutional placement (QIP) to mobilise Rs 15,000 crore, while InterGlobe Aviation, the parent of budget carrier IndiGo, announced its plans to mobilise Rs 4,000 crore. Last month, the board of ICICI Bank had cleared a proposal to raise Rs 14,000 crore. In a regulatory filing to the bourses after the market hours, the lender said its board will meet on August 14 to determine the issue price for the institutional buyers. The bank has set the floor price for QIP at a discount of over 3 per cent to Monday’s close of Rs 363.60 on the BSE. The bank’s issuance committee, which met on Monday evening, decided to open the QIP immediately and set the floor price of Rs 351.36 per share at the end of the board meeting. Mortgage lender HDFC had last week announced plans to raise  Rs 14,000-crore through the issue of equity shares and warrants and up to Rs 9,000 crore via secured redeemable non-convertible debentures. 
HDFC’s  QIP comprised Rs 10,000 crore through equity shares and Rs 4,000 crore from warrants. Axis Bank had also witnessed a strong response to its QIP which sought to raise Rs 10,000 crore. 
Earlier, Kotak Mahindra Bank had mobilised Rs 7,000 crore through this route. The lenders are raising funds as they prepare for a possible rise in bad loans during the second half of this fiscal. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has also asked them to shore up their capital base. ICICI Bank had decided to set aside Rs 5,500 crore as provisions for possible reverses on the loan book in the June quarter, where its consolidated net profit grew 24 per cent to Rs 3,118 crore on the back of one-time gains on stake sales in insurance arms. Analysts are  divided on how the bad loan situation unfolds as some feel that non-performing assets (NPAs) will not see a huge rise after the central bank announced a one-time restructuring mechanism last week. Banks will, however, have to make a provision of at least 10 per cent on cases where such a restructuring has been done. “We believe that the restructuring will certainly slow down/defer the NPA formation well below the RBI’s expectation, while 10 per cent provisioning cost for banks should discourage unwarranted restructuring,’’ analysts at Emkay said in a recent note. The financial stability report of the RBI, released last month, had projected that baseline gross bad loans for the system would rise to 12.5 per cent of bad assets and in the worst case to 14.5 per cent during this fiscal from 8.5 per cent as of March 31, 2020. The projection did not factor in a restructuring mechanism. InterGlobe Aviation’s board has approved a plan to raise up to Rs 4,000 crore through a qualified institutional placement of shares, subject to the approval of the company’s shareholders and receipt of applicable regulatory approvals. Ahead of the announcement, its shares settled 1.43 per cent higher at Rs 952.90 on the BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-319
11-08-2020||Business||Bank of Baroda reports over Rs 800cr loss||State-owned Bank of Baroda on Monday reported a standalone net loss of Rs 864 crore for the June quarter of 2020 because of higher provisions and contingencies. The bank had posted a net profit of Rs 710 crore in the same quarter a year ago. “On account of provisioning on standard accounts of Rs 1,811 crore, the bank has reported a (standalone) net loss of Rs 864 crore and a consolidated net loss of Rs 679 crore,” Bank of Baroda said. Interest income fell 2.38 per cent to Rs 18,494 crore from Rs 18,944 crore a year ago. Total provisions and contingencies for the quarter jumped 71.32 per cent to Rs 5,628 crore from Rs 3,285 crore a year ago. Gross non-performing assets fell to 9.39 per cent of gross advances as on June 30, 2020, from 10.28 per cent a year ago. Tata group firm Titan Company on Monday reported a consolidated net loss of Rs 297 crore for the June quarter, impacted by lower income because of the pandemic. The company had reported a net profit of Rs 364 crore a year ago. Total income declined 61.21 per cent to Rs 2,020 crore from Rs 5,208 crore earlier, Titan said. Titan Company managing director C.K Venkataraman said: “The recovery in business, particularly in the jewellery business is encouraging and we expect to get back to normalcy by the fourth quarter of this year.” Numaligarh Refinery Limited (NRL), a leading PSU oil company in Assam, has recorded a dip in revenue from operations at Rs 14,073 crore in 2019-20 compared with Rs 18,511 crore in 2018-19 because of lower sales and a reduction in prices of petroleum products in the international market. “Profit before tax fell to Rs 1,735 crore from Rs. 3,052 crore a year ago. Profit after tax decreased to Rs 1,381 crore from Rs 1,968 crore in 2018-19,” NRL said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-319
11-08-2020||Business||Gadkari asks to reduce China import dependency||The government plans to encourage the manufacturing of select products to boost import substitution. Addressing a virtual MSME conclave organised by the Ficci Karnataka State Council, Union MSME minister Nitin Gadkari said there is a need to think on how India can increase exports and reduce import dependence. Speaking about Chinese exports, Gadkari said 30 per cent of the entire global manufacturing is based in China and there are 10 major export categories that comprise 70 per cent of its overall exports, including fields such as electrical machinery and equipment. “Now, this is the time... we should identify which are the fields where we can make import substitution, how we can develop the MSMEs and the industry by which we can take advantage of the economic situation in the world,” said Gadkari, who is also the road transport and highways minister. Refuting criticism for supporting the domestic industry and putting a check on imports, commerce minister Piyush Goyal said we want to protect our industries so that they can get a fair play and access. “What we are trying to do is make sure our domestic industry gets a fair play. How can it be that one country does not allow tyres to be exported to them but wants free imports of tyres from that country into India? “There has to be equal, fair and reciprocal arrangement. If other countries are keen to enter the 1.3-billion Indian market opportunity, they will also have to give our businesses an equal opportunity to engage in their countries,” Goyal said at the Ficci event. “They can’t put technical barriers or regulations on our products and then complain if we put any standards in our country.” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-319
11-08-2020||Business||Supreme Court raps bankrupt telecom operators for filing insolvency||The Supreme Court on Monday asked telecom operators Reliance Communications (R-Com) and Aircel and others why they went in for insolvency proceedings when they had more than Rs 40,000-crore dues in adjusted gross revenues hanging over them. The court asked the department of telecommunications (DoT)  why it did not move the apex court against the insolvency cases at the National Company Law Tribunal where national resources such as spectrum were listed as assets, meaning they could be sold to pay off dues. Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the DoT,  told the bench of Justices Arun Mishra, Abdul Nazeer and M.R. Shah: “We have told the NCLT that spectrum can’t be owned by anyone… We have raised the point that a company which is to go into insolvency cannot show the spectrum as one of the assets. Spectrum cannot be owned by anyone like this. Government is the trustee. Spectrum is a national asset.” The bench, which is hearing  the case relating to the payment of Rs 1.47 lakh crore dues in adjusted gross revenue (AGR) from the private operators to the exchequer, adjourned the matter till Friday, by which time the operators and the DoT will have to come up with their position on the insolvency claims. The solicitor-general told the court that Aircel had shown spectrum as its assets in the insolvency proceedings before the National Company Law Tribunal(NCLT). “What’s the material placed on record for the insolvency? What were the reasons to initiate insolvency,” Justice Mishra asked. The solicitor-general said it was for the respective companies to address the court on the issue. “We have told the NCLT that spectrum cannot be an asset of a company. Cannot be sold.” He said the objections raised by the Centre against the sale of R-Com’s spectrum were also under the consideration of the tribunal. “We want to know the cause of initiation of insolvency for telecom companies under IBC. We want to know if there is any urgency,” the bench asked. The court asked the solicitor general why the DoT did not bother to file an appeal before it against the NCLT proceedings that spectrum cannot be part of bankruptcy assets. “What if spectrum is sold in the meanwhile?” Justice M.R. Shah asked. Senior advocate Shyam Divan appearing for RCom said the insolvency proceedings had to be undergone by the company as the “monetisation outside the IBC failed due to lack of consensus among lenders”. The court wondered how come the NCLAT revived insolvency proceedings despite RCom’s payment to Ericsson. The court then asked the resolution professional in the RCom-IBC matter to file his stance on the issue. “If your main asset is spectrum, then you don't want to pay anything,” the court observed to the RCom’s 
resolution professional while seeking the DoT’s response also on the issue. According to RCom, the resolution plan is presently pending NCLT approval after being cleared by the committee of creditors (CoC). On July 2 the apex court had agreed to consider a staggered payment of over Rs 1.47 lakh crore AGR dues, but sought details on the bona fide of the insolvency claims made by R-Com, Aircel, Videocon and Sistema Shyam Teleservices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-319
