12-08-2020||Business||Railways shell out more in ticket refunds than ever before||Perhaps for the first time in its 167-year-long history, the Railways has refunded more than it has earned from ticket bookings, registering a negative passenger segment revenue of Rs 1,066 crore in the Covic-19-hit first quarter of 2020-21, an RTI query by a Madhya Pradesh-based activist has found. The freight earnings, however, during the period managed to hold ground, according to the RTI reply provided to Chandra Shekhar Gaur. The revenue in the first three months of this financial year, when the Railways had to suspend all its regular passenger services due to the coronavirus travel restrictions, was in the negative -- Rs 531.12 crore in April, Rs 145.24 crore in May and Rs 390.6 in June (all in negative), the RTI reply said. "The minus figures are being shown due to the fact that the value of refunds is more than the value of tickets booked", said Railway spokesperson DJ Narain. An official explained that due to the suspension of services, tickets booked for travel in April, May and June were offered refunds, while fewer tickets were booked during these three months due to the restrictions. The Railways has cancelled all regular passenger services indefinitely. In the first quarter of the 2019-20 fiscal, the Railways had earned Rs 4,345 crore in April, Rs 4,463 crore in May and Rs 4,589 crore in June. The Railways has said that due to the pandemic, it is envisaging a loss of around Rs 40,000 crore this financial year. However, freight traffic seems to have recovered somewhat since the Railways has been the preferred mode of transportation for ferrying essential during these months. In April 2020, the freight earning was Rs 5,744 crore, in May it was 7,289 crore and in June the number stood at Rs 8,706 crore. In the first quarter of last fiscal year, it earned Rs 9,331 crore in April, Rs 10,032 crore in May and Rs 9,702 crore in June. Narain said the Railways' freight operations during the last two weeks are higher than the last year's corresponding figures for the same period, adding that it is a very encouraging and positive sign. A concerted effort by railway officials and better management practices will ensure that revenue lost in the passenger segment is significantly offset by an outstanding freight performance, Narain said. The Railways said that it has also suffered losses to the tune of Rs 2,000 crore in the running of the Shramik Special trains which began operations from May 1 to ferry stranded migrant workers home. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-318
12-08-2020||Business||Aramco revives Reliance Industries interest||Saudi Aramco has indicated that it is doing a due diligence on picking up a stake in the oil-to-chemicals (O2C) business of Reliance Industries, which raises the prospects of some movement in the proposed $15-billion transaction. However, at a conference call with investors after it announced its results for the half- year ended June 30, Amin H. Nasser, CEO, president and director of Aramco, did not indicate any timeline for the closure of the transaction as he refrained from giving any further details. This is the first official comment coming from the top brass of the oil giant in several months. “With regard to the Reliance deal, all I can say at this stage, it’s going through the due diligence. So depending on it, we will make our decision. This is a big deal. So we need to take our time to review and then decide based on the outcome of the study,’’ Nasser said when asked for an update on the progress of the  deal. Addressing shareholders at its annual general meeting last month, RIL chairman and managing director Mukesh Ambani had said that the proposed transaction is not proceeding for now. “Due to unforeseen circumstances in the energy market and the Covid-19 situation, the (Aramco) deal has not progressed according to the original timeline,’’ Ambani said. The deal was initially announced by the RIL chief at a shareholders meeting in 2019 where he had disclosed that Aramco would pay $15 billion for a 20 per cent stake in its O2C business. While RIL is spinning off its O2C business into a separate subsidiary, analysts are of the view that Reliance will have to settle for a much lower valuation. It is not immediately clear if Nasser’s latest comments would lead to Reliance accepting a lesser valuation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-318
12-08-2020||Business||Government e-Marketplace sees potential of $100 billion of transactions ||The Government e-Marketplace (GeM) platform sees a potential of $100 billion of transactions as it gears up for an upgrade in September. The online platform, which turned four years on August 9, has registered a transaction value worth Rs 58,578 crore with 441,043 sellers and service providers on board. GeM CEO Talleen Kumar said on Tuesday that a unified procurement system is being planned that consolidates all public procurement platforms allowing vendors to onboard on one platform. The consolidation will lead to better economies of scale, dissemination of best practices and efficient price discovery. “The products and services amenable to procurement in a marketplace is about 5 per cent of the GDP. In India this translates roughly to Rs 5-8 lakh crore per annum. If we consider Rs 7 lakh crore per annum it translates to $100 billion. Our aim is to get as close to $100 billion per annum as possible,” Kumar said at a session organised by Indian Chamber of Commerce. “Around 200 plus processes are in the pipeline which will be completed by September 2020,” he said. Besides onboarding weavers and craftsmen to promote domestic industry, the platform is working with banks to provide uncollateralised working capital credit for sellers. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her budget speech had said that the government intends to create a unified procurement system for the public sector by providing a single platform for procurement of goods, services and works, that will benefit MSMEs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-318
12-08-2020||Business||Minimum support price on sugar to rise||The government is likely to hike the fair and remunerative price of sugarcane to Rs 285 per 100 kg and also the minimum support price  for sugar to Rs 33 per kg. The cabinet is likely to arrive at a decision soon to help the mills clear the arrears of cane farmers worth Rs 20,000 crore at the earliest. Officials said the food ministry has prepared a cabinet note to “fix the minimum selling price of white sugar and also to increase cane FRP (fair and remunerative price)”. FRP of sugarcane is now priced at Rs 275 per 100 kg, while MSP of sugar is Rs 31 per kg. However, industry sources feel that even after the hike the price of the sweetener will remain below the cost of production of Rs 35-36 a kg. But, it would provide some relief to mills at a time most are facing liquidity issues. Last year, the government had increased the price at which mills sell sugar to bulk buyers by Rs 2/kg to Rs 31 per kg. The minimum selling price of sugar is fixed taking into account the components of FRP and minimum conversion cost of the most efficient mills. According to the official data, mills have purchased sugarcane of around Rs 72,000 crore from farmers during the 2019-20 cane season (October-September). Of that, around Rs 20,000 crore of arrears are yet to be paid to farmers. Arrears comprise payments to be made on the basis of the FRP fixed by the Centre, and the state advisory price determined by the states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-318
12-08-2020||Business||Car sales down 4% in July||Passenger vehicle sales in the country totalled 1.82 lakh in July, marking a decline of 3.86 per cent from 1.9 lakh units in the year-ago period, data released by the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (Siam) showed on Tuesday. The decline was cushioned by a rise in demand for entry-level cars and motorcycles in the rural and semi-urban markets. “After a few consecutive months of falling sales in a post-Covid scenario, there are signs of green shoots in passenger vehicles and two-wheelers. Sales in August would indicate if this is sustainable demand and not just a pent-up demand,” Rajan Wadhera, president of Siam, said. According to the  Siam figures, Maruti Suzuki India sold 70,090 units last month compared with 71,486 units in July 2019. Hyundai Motor India wholesales stood at 19,828 units compared with 22,776 units in the year-ago month. In the two-wheeler segment, scooter sales fell 36.51 per cent year-on-year to 3,34,288 units, while motorcycles sales declined marginally by 4.87 per cent to 8,88,520 units. Overall, two-wheeler sales fell 15.24 per cent to 12,81,354 units. Three-wheeler sales totalled 12,728 units last month, marking a decline of 77.16 per cent from 55,719 units in July last year. Siam did not provide wholesale dispatches of commercial vehicle in July. Total production of passenger vehicles, including three-wheelers, two-wheelers and quadricycles, in July was 17.15 lakh units against 24.28 lakh units a year ago. July saw a 29 per cent drop in total domestic sales at 1,715,514 units against 2,428,518 units a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-318
12-08-2020||Business||HDFC, Axis achieve fund-raising goals||The country’s largest pure play mortgage lender HDFC on Tuesday said it has raised close to Rs 14,000 crore by issuing shares to qualified institutional investors and through non-convertible debentures. The Government of Singapore received 13.37 per cent of the shares allotted (75.9 lakh shares), while Invesco Oppenheimer Developing Markets Fund received 5.54 per cent (3.2 lakh shares). In a separate announcement, Axis Bank said it has raised Rs 10,000 crore through a QIP (qualified institutional placement) issue. HDFC disclosed that it has raised Rs 10,000 crore, allotting 5.7 crore equity shares at an issue price of Rs 1,760 per share. The price represents a discount of 1 per cent to the closing price of its equity shares on the stock exchanges prior to the launch of the issue. The HDFC stock on Tuesday ended with gains of 1.48 per cent at Rs 1,825.35. HDFC said it has received Rs 307.03 crore upfront through the issue and the allotment  of 1.7 crore warrants at an issue price of Rs 180 per warrant. The warrants entitle the holder to exchange each warrant for one equity share of HDFC at any time over the next three years until August 10, 2023 at a pre-agreed price of  Rs 2,165. The warrant issue price together with the warrant exercise price represents a premium of 32 per cent to the closing price of its shares prior to the launch of the issue. In addition, HDFC raised Rs 3,693 crore through the issue of redeemable non-convertible  debentures for a tenor of three years, carrying an annualised coupon rate of 5.40 per cent per annum. It added that the issue has been over-subscribed overall. “Assuming all the warrants are exercised by investors within the next three years,  the corporation would receive an additional Rs 3,386 crore by way of securities  premium. Accordingly, the maximum equity dilution possible under  the  issue would be up to 4.26 per cent of the enhanced equity share capital of the corporation,” HDFC said. Axis Bank too saw good response to its QIP offering from the global and domestic investor community, including several large FPIs, domestic mutual funds and insurance companies. The deal was over-subscribed with the aggregate size being Rs 10,000 crore. The issue was done at a price of Rs 420.10 per share ,a discount of five per cent to the floor price of Rs 442.19 per share. “We believe that the Bank is well placed to leverage all the possible growth opportunities that will come in as the economy opens up and is in a strong position to combat the challenges that emanate from the Covid-19 pandemic crisis. We believe in the strong fundamentals of the Indian economy and based on our vision for growth, profitability and sustainability, will keep delivering the best value to our customers, shareholders and investors’’, Amitabh Chaudhry, MD & CEO, Axis Bank said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-318
12-08-2020||Business||Food retail prices up in July||India’s retail inflation edged up slightly in July due to higher food prices, remaining firmly above the RBI’s medium-term target of 4 per cent for a 10th straight month, a Reuters poll showed. Food prices, which account for nearly half the inflation basket, have soared since April because of supply-side disruptions caused by a nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the coronavirus. While the central government gradually eased restrictions in June, regional lockdowns in some major agricultural producing states continued to disrupt supplies of essential perishables like fruits and vegetables. The August 6-10 Reuters poll of over 45 economists showed Indian retail inflation rose to 6.15 per cent last month from 6.09 per cent in June. Forecasts for the data, scheduled to be released on August 12, ranged from 5.00 per cent to 6.55 per cent. “We see July CPI inflation to be steady above the Reserve Bank of India’s policy limit. Food remained a dominant inflation driver but high utility and transport costs also contributed,” said Prakash Sakpal, Asia economist at ING. Reuters The government suspended the release of CPI inflation headline numbers for April and May due to insufficient data during the lockdown. The RBI kept interest rates on hold last week after reducing the repo rate by a total of 115 basis points since February - despite a recent rise in retail consumer prices - but said it would ensure inflation remains within target. According to the RBI’s latest survey, household inflation expectations for the three-month and one-year horizons rose to over 10% in July, suggesting Asia’s third-largest economy could enter a period of stagflation - a phase with lofty inflation, high unemployment and stagnant demand. “With inflation expected to remain elevated on supply side disruptions, we think a rate cut is more probable in December,” said Rini Sen, India economist at ANZ. “We expect food prices to abate likely from September onwards, once the rabi crop (summer harvest) enters the market.” Monsoon rains, which are critical for farm output and economic growth, are expected to be 104% of a long-term average in August and September, indicating bumper harvests and helping to alleviate the economic damage caused by the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-318
12-08-2020||Business||Fitch: Worry over debt recast||The Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) decision on the one-time restructuring of stressed advances may delay bad loan recognition, Fitch Ratings said on Monday. Last week, the RBI had allowed banks to restructure loans facing stress because of the Covid-19 crisis. Fitch said there would now be more uncertainty over the asset quality of banks. The recast opens a window for banks to build capital buffers while putting off the full recognition of the pandemic’s impact on loan portfolios. The mechanism is reminiscent of a strategy adopted over 2010-2016 that delayed and exacerbated problems for the banks, the ratings agency said. Fitch pointed out that the scheme may be designed to give banks more time to raise capital to address the impact of the crisis on loan portfolios. The ratings agency said PSU banks may find it difficult to raise funds as investors may be reluctant to participate in the sales of stakes in state-owned lenders until the impact of the pandemic on their balance sheets is clear. It also felt that delaying the recognition of problems in the banking sector could provide some short-term support to economic growth by stimulating credit issuance. “However, many state banks may remain reluctant to lend to all but the most creditworthy borrowers in the near term, as their overall weak capital position remains unsupportive of growth — even with impaired loans permitted to be classified as ‘standard’ after rescheduling,” the rating agency noted. Besides, the attempts to restructure debts between 2010 and 2016 were characterised by poor implementation and weak monitoring. The central bank has, however, looked to address this concern by tightening supervision through the Kamath  Committee, which will vet all restructuring plans involving creditors with more than Rs 1,500 crore of debt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-318
12-08-2020||Business||Industrial production falls 16.6 per cent in June||Industrial production fell 16.6 per cent in June, the fourth straight month of contraction — but pent-up demand burst through during the month as a result of which the pace of contraction was a lot slower than in the previous three months. According to the Index of Industrial Production (IIP) data, manufacturing sector production registered a decline of 17.1 per cent, while the output of mining fell 19.8 per cent and power, 10 per cent. Industrial production contracted 34.7 per cent in May after falling 57.6 per cent on a yearly basis in April. IIP had expanded 1.3 per cent year-on-year in June 2019. The contraction will be still less in July, according to Aditi Nayar, principal economist of Icra, based on various lead indicators such as the output of Coal India Limited, electricity consumption and GST e-way bills that contracted in narrow single-digits in July. “Nevertheless, we continue to caution that pent-up demand contributed to the improved performance of certain categories of manufacturing in June-July 2020, which may not sustain in August 2020 especially in the light of the extension of localised lockdowns in various states,” she said. Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, Care Ratings, said some industries restocked goods which were depleted in April and May when production was hindered by the lockdown. He said there appeared to be a positive relation between the unlock process and the IIP growth numbers. “While it has been negative in the three months, there has been improvement in May over April and improvement in June over May.” “While there still exists localised lockdowns in several geographies production will be impacted in July and August for sure and we may expect negative growth in these months,” Sabnavis said. He said the strong decline in the first quarter will weigh heavily on GDP growth estimate for the quarter which can tend towards -20 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-318
12-08-2020||Business||Lockdown: Surge in demand for cheaper homes||Pent up demand created during the lockdown period has induced a spike in booking for apartments in the last two months, bringing relief to the hapless developers who expect the momentum to continue only if there is a corresponding uplift in the overall economy. City-based developers and brokers say enquiries have gone up and the number of bookings have increased in June and July compared with the previous two months, but they are still far away from the pre-Covid levels. “Enquiries which had completely stopped have started coming back a bit. Properties priced below Rs 1 crore has traction and ready-to-move (RTM) apartments have an edge over unfinished ones. I believe well known brands will do better in the current scenario,” Harsh V. Neotia, chairman of Ambuja Neotia, said. Sanjay Jain, managing director of Siddha, agreed. “Seeing demand for RTM properties in one of our projects in north Calcutta, we are readying 100 more units to bring to the market,” said Jain, who claimed sales are back to 60-70 per cent of normal times. NK Realtor, one of the top city-based brokers, says three out of four properties booked in the last four months are under the Rs 50 lakh bracket. Biplab Kumar, vice-president of NK, said there has been a month-on-month improvement in booking with the best seen in July. There is a changing bias towards large complexes post Amphan and during the pandemic. Around 47 per cent of the 500-odd respondents to a survey conducted by the brokerage say they prefer to stay in projects having 500-plus apartments. Visible advantages of staying within a gated community during a crisis is drawing buyers in Calcutta and beyond. Arya Sumant, managing director of Eden Realty Ventures, witnessed more bookings in June-July than November-December in his ultra-affordable project (Rs 9 lakh-Rs 23 lakh) in Serampore. “I was really surprised. Believe that the fence sitters came forward. It was more of a pent up demand created during lockdown,” Sumant said. But he had a word of caution too. “How the rest of the year is going to pan out will depend on the economy. If there is no job security, how many people would come forward to buy property? After all, one takes a long term view of income while taking a home loan,” Sumant said. Jitendra Khaitan, chairman and managing director of Pioneer Properties, noted that only serious buyers are in the market. However, that would not necessarily mean that all bookings would translate into agreement for sale. “There is at least 10-15 per cent cancellation from booking usually. Given that many developers offered easy exit terms, the number may rise,” an industry source pointed out. Sidharth Pansari, managing director of Primarc, however, sees little challenge in existing projects. “If you have built a reputation for delivering quality projects on time, there should not be any problem,” Pansari said, adding focus on right size and pricing has paid off during this time. Few launches, loans scarce Knight Frank, an international property consultancy, noted that there have been no launches in the Calcutta market during April-June. Neotia said he didn’t expect launches before November. Top developers sell around 11,000-12,000 units a year on an average. The Knight Frank report suggests 2,937 units were sold during January-June, all of which took place before lockdown. The report says more than 30,000 units continue to remain unsold as on June 30. The bias towards RTM properties also means that there is an incentive for builders to complete existing projects rather than taking up new ones which typically takes 36-48 months to complete. Bank finances have also become scarce and costlier, said Surekha Bihani, managing director (East) of JLL India. Even though many projects have been registered with state regulator from April onwards, builders are wary of bringing them to the market, fearing lack of demand. This, however, does not mean that there is any dearth of choice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-318
12-08-2020||Business||JSW Steel July output falls 5%||JSW Steel on Tuesday said its crude steel production during July stood at 12.46 lakh tonnes (lt), down 5 per cent from the same period a year ago. The company had produced 13.17lt crude steel in July 2019, it said in a statement. However, on a month-on-month basis there has been an improvement both in terms of steel production and average capacity utilisation. “On a month-on-month basis, the crude steel production achieved for the month of July 2020 was at 12.46lt, showing a growth of 9 per cent over June 2020. The average capacity utilisation during the month of July was 83 per cent against 76 per cent in June 2020,” it said. During July, output of flat rolled products was at 9.40lt, up 3.5 per cent from 9.08lt in the same month of 2019. The company’s production of long rolled products fell 24 per cent to 2.40lt in the period under review, from 3.16lt in July 2019. JSW Steel Ltd is the flagship company of the diversified $12 billion JSW Group, which has a leading presence in sectors such as steel, energy, infrastructure, cement, sports among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-319
