13-08-2020||Business||MNCs in the fray to run private trains||Multinationals Alstom, Bombardier and Siemens are among the 23 probable bidders to operate private trains in the country. A pre-bid meeting was held here on Wednesday, which was also attended by Indian companies GMR Infrastructure, Titagarh Wagons, PSUs Bharat Earth Movers Limited and BHEL along with the IRCTC. In the first meeting held on July 21, 16 firms were present. At the second pre-bid meeting, the companies put forth several queries, including on the eligibility criteria and the bidding process. The bidders also sought clarity on the procurement of trains and their fares. They had queries on operations and maintenance and the timing of trains and halts. The railways said it has reduced the Request for Qualification (RFQ) fee by one tenth for those entities participating in more than one project. Complete freedom will be given on the procurement of trains even as the restriction of three projects per bidder will be reduced and the leasing of trains will be permitted. In all, the railways is inviting 12 requests for qualification to operate 151 private trains. The first dozen private trains will roll out in the next two years and all the 151 trains will run by 2026-27. The contract will be for 35 years. The project involves private investment of Rs 30,000 crore. Analysts said the private train project is expected to boost the revenues of Indian Railways, which has been trying to look at ways to reduce losses. The railways recover just 57 per cent of costs through passenger fares, with the rest coming from freight subsidy. The railways had earlier said the operators shall have the freedom to decide on fares . The private entities will be selected through a two-stage competitive bidding process comprising Request for Qualification (RFQ) and Request for Proposal (RFP). The due date for opening of RFQ is September 8.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-316
13-08-2020||Business||Coal India wants rail tariff relief||Coal India has urged Indian Railways to offer it a 15 per cent freight concession to transport domestic coal for a distance of 701-1400 kilometres (km) from its mines. In June, the Railway Board had decided to grant a 20 per cent concession on freight price for a distance of more than 1400 km on the transportation of coal. The concession is on normal tariff rates, provided that after applying the concession, the freight price should not be less than the tariff rate for a distance up to 1400 km. This concession is valid from July 2020 to June 30, 2021. But Coal India officials on Wednesday said that there was a case for widening the scope of concession as only a handful of consumers in the power sector, which constitutes the bulk of the public sector miner’s offtake, are eligible to get the benefits. Of the 126 coal-based thermal power plants linked to Coal India, 14 plants located beyond 1400 km are eligible for freight concession at present. Moreover, these plants have supply contracts of only 42 million tonnes of coal per annum. Six non-power consumers who would benefit from the present concession  have annual coal contracts of 1.37 mt per annum. Once the concession is extended, it will boost Coal India’s offtake, which has been hit by the Covid-19 pandemic, and also encourage import substitution. “Extension of freight concession to customers located in the range of 701-1400 km could result in substantial domestic coal lifted by them in place of coal sourced from abroad due to lesser cost of coal conveyance,” said a senior Coal India executive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-317
13-08-2020||Business||Gold prices break trend after Covid vaccine announcement, dollar gains||Gold prices fell on Wednesday after the announcement of the Covid vaccine by Russia and gains in the dollar. The safe haven asset has gained 33 per cent so far this calendar year. On Tuesday, spot prices of the precious metal fell below the $2000-per-ounce-mark and again came under pressure on Wednesday to fall below $1900. At the MCX, gold futures fell below the Rs 50,000 mark in early trades, though it recovered to close with gains of Rs 428 at Rs 52,357 per ten grams. In Calcutta, pure gold closed down Rs 2,860 at Rs 53,310. Analysts, however, feel that the prices may still be firm towards the medium term. “Concerns of a US-China tussle, a rapid increase in the virus and other uncertainties still hover, supporting the bullish story from a medium term perspective,’’ Navneet Damani of Motilal Oswal Financial Services said. According to Rahul Gupta of Emkay Global Financial Services, safe haven demand will boost gold prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-317
13-08-2020||Business||NMDC hikes iron ore price by Rs 300 ||NMDC, the country’s largest iron ore miner, has hiked the rates of the mineral by Rs 300 to Rs 2,950 a tonne with immediate effect. Iron ore is the key raw material used in steel making and, therefore, any revision in its prices has a direct impact on the prices of steel. In a regulatory filing with the stock exchanges, NMDC said it has increased the price of lumps, or high-grade iron ore, by Rs 300 to Rs 2,950 per tonne, and that of iron ore fines, or inferior grade ore, by Rs 300 to Rs 2,660 a tonne. The revised prices exclude royalty, District Mineral Fund (DMF), National Mineral Exploration Trust (DMET), cess, forest permit fee and other taxes, the company added. It disclosed that the new rates are effective from August 12. The last revision, effective July 31, was announced on August 3, when NMDC had fixed the price of lumps at Rs 2,650 per tonne and of fines at Rs 2,360 a tonne. NMDC is also involved in the exploration of a wide range of minerals such as copper, rock phosphate, lime stone, dolomite and gypsum. On the BSE, its shares ended at Rs 94.35, a gain of 1.18 per cent over the last close. In a recent note, analysts at Motilal Oswal said that the price hikes by the company have been ahead of their estimates and this has been on the back of improving volumes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-317
13-08-2020||Business||Modi to launch taxpayer charter today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch a platform to honour the country’s honest taxpayers on Thursday. The “taxpayer charter” is expected to have statutory status and will empower citizens by ensuring time-bound services by the income tax department. The finance minister, the revenue secretary, the CBDT chief and the tax commissioners will be present at the launch. In the budget for 2020-21, unveiled on February 1, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said “we wish to enshrine in the statutes a ‘taxpayer charter’ through this budget. Our government would like to reassure taxpayers that we remain committed to taking measures so that our citizens are free from harassment of any kind”. She had said any tax system requires trust between taxpayers and the administration, which will be possible only when taxpayers’ rights are clearly enumerated. The charter will list out the fundamental rights of taxpayers and the basic standards of services that they should expect. The charter will aim to change the relationship between taxpayers and the tax department from being an enforcer to a facilitator. The department, on its part, will be expected to provide services that are fair and efficient. To provide for resolution of pending tax disputes, the income tax department has also brought out the Direct Tax “Vivad se Vishwas Act, 2020” under which declarations for settling disputes are being filed at present.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-317
13-08-2020||Business||UltraTech Cement to invest  Rs 1500cr||UltraTech Cement has lined up investment of Rs 1,500 crore in 2020-21 in multiple initiatives, chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla said on Wednesday. The company is also planning to increase its annual capacity to 118 million tonnes from 114.8 million tonnes at present, he informed shareholders during a virtual annual general meeting. Birla, who heads the diversified conglomerate Aditya Birla Group, said periods of turmoil create champions, adding that UltraTech has the capacity, leadership across markets and a strong balance sheet to emerge as one. “Your company has planned total capex cash outlay of Rs 1,500 crore for a range of key initiatives,” he told shareholders. This will include spends on installing 66 MW of waste heat recovery systems, a 1.2 million tonnes per annum brownfield cement capacity addition in Bengal and Bihar, pending work for phase 2 of Bara grinding unit in Uttar Pradesh, coal block development in Madhya Pradesh, new ready mix concrete plants and capital expenditure for other plant maintenance, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-317
13-08-2020||Business||German lender Deutsche Bank to bring in Rs 2700cr ||German lender Deutsche Bank on Wednesday announced a capital infusion of Rs 2,700 crore into its India operations for expansion across segments. This is the second time in less than two years that the bank has infused money into its local operations of 17 branches after bringing in Rs 3,800 crore in early 2019. A bank statement said the fresh capital will be used to support the expansion of Deutsche Bank India across all of its businesses, including corporate banking, investment banking and international private banking, which have been consistently growing over the years. The bank’s chief country officer Kaushik Shaparia said the incremental capital injection should be seen as a strong validation of the lender’s confidence in the business model and potential in India. “It also demonstrates our intent to further deepen our presence here,” he said, adding that the recent months have thrown up opportunities to work ever more closely with clients and support them with services and advice in steering through the tough environment. The capital adequacy ratio for the bank, which has been present in India since 1980, stood at 14.93 per cent as of March 31, 2020, which will go up after the infusion. Total capital deployed by Deutsche Bank in its India branches has now increased to Rs 18,200 crore and the overall assets stood at Rs 1.2 lakh crore as of March 31, 2020, the statement said. With the Reserve Bank allowing the restructuring of loans that are facing stress because of the Covid-19 pandemic, non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) are likely to see an increase in their refinancing requirements, says a report. Last week, the RBI gave permission to lenders to go for a one-time restructuring of corporate and personal loans facing stress. “The RBI’s decision allowing lenders to restructure loans would increase their refinancing requirements, especially for NBFCs,” India Ratings and Research said in a report. “This is in view of their large contractual debt repayments, as scheduled cash inflow gets deferred, though the severity of the same would depend upon the proportion of loan portfolio restructured and terms of restructuring (i.e complete moratorium vs partial payments),” it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-317
13-08-2020||Business||BPCL selloff hurdles||Global energy players are keen to pick up the government’s 52.98 per cent stake in BPCL, given the country’s projected fuel demand over the next few years. However, they are looking at clarity over fuel pricing and other issues and waiting for the travel restrictions to be lifted, analysts said. After the deadline for the submission of expressions of interest was extended for the third time, concerns have been raised over whether the interest of global investors was waning. “A combination of global and domestic factors are at play in the context of BPCL’s privatisation. Several global firms have recently announced commitments to reduce fossil fuel production and thereby carbon emissions. The pandemic has also restricted movement of people. Interested bidders would like to site visits and hold in-person meetings with management teams to evaluate such a large transaction,” said Dilip Khanna, partner, strategy and transactions, EY. K. Ravichandran, senior VP and energy analyst at Icra, said, “Once the pandemic-related restrictions are removed, there would be increased interest in the sector. One of the issues of concern for global investors would be pricing of fuel like petrol and diesel, and they could seek clarity on it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-317
13-08-2020||Business||Opec sees steep decline in demand, recovery in 2021 uncertain||World oil demand will fall more steeply in 2020 than previously forecast because of the coronavirus and there are doubts about next year’s recovery, Opec forecast on Wednesday, potentially making it harder for the group and its allies to support the market. World oil demand will tumble 9.06 million barrels per day (bpd) this year, the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries said in a monthly report, more than the 8.95 million bpd decline expected a month ago. Oil prices have collapsed as the coronavirus curtailed travel and economic activity. While some countries have eased lockdowns, allowing demand to recover, fear of new outbreaks has kept a lid on prices and Opec expects this to persist. “Crude and product price developments in the second half of 2020 will continue to be impacted by concerns over a second wave of infections and higher global stocks,” Opec said in the report. Opec stuck to its forecast that in 2021 oil demand would rebound by 7 million bpd but said the outlook was subject to large uncertainties that might result in “a negative impact on petroleum consumption” such as demand for air travel, more fuel-efficient cars and more competition from other fuels. “Almost all forecasters expect jet fuel in 2021 to struggle making up for lost demand,” Opec said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-317
13-08-2020||Business||Fuel demand slows down in July after picking up pace in May, June||India’s fuel demand is beginning to flatten after showing signs of returning to life as consumption dipped 11.7 per cent in July, official data showed. Fuel consumption, a barometer of economic activity in the country, had slumped over 45 per cent in April as the nationwide lockdown halted most vehicular traffic and shut industries. However, with the easing of lockdown restrictions, the demand picked up in May and June with month-on-month increase in consumption numbers. However, mini-lockdowns imposed by states to contain the spread of the coronavirus seemed to have stopped this recovery, with demand falling 3.5 per cent in July over the previous month. Fuel demand fell to 15.67 million tonnes (mt) in July, 11.7 per cent lower compared with 17.75 mt consumed in the same month a year ago, and 3.5 per cent lower than the June sales of 16.24 mt. Consumption of diesel, which accounts for about two-fifth of India’s overall fuel use, fell 19.25 per cent to 5.52mt in July from a year earlier, data released by the Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell of the oil ministry showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-317
13-08-2020||Business||Churn signals Indiabulls bank hope||Indiabulls Housing Finance Limited (IHFL) has appointed former RBI deputy governor Subhash Sheoratan Mundra as its non-executive chairman — a strategic move that many believe signals that the financial services entity has not abandoned its quest for a banking licence after being stonewalled by a vicious campaign last year to undermine its credentials. Mundra will replace Sameer Gehlaut, the founder of the Indiabulls group, who resigned as the executive chairman of IHFL with immediate effect. In a regulatory filing to the stock exchanges after market hours, Indiabulls Housing Finance said Gehlaut has been re-designated as the non-executive, non-independent director of the company. The company said Gehlaut resigned as he wanted to focus more on the group’s financial services firm — Indiabulls Ventures —which is into consumer lending that includes personal loans, asset reconstruction and the capital market business. Last October, the RBI had rejected a proposal to merge Indiabulls Housing Finance with troubled Tamil Nadu-based  Lakshmi Vilas Bank, following allegations that money worth thousands of crores were siphoned off by Gehlaut and the directors. Subsequently, the petitioner who had approached the Supreme Court alleging the misappropriation of funds withdrew the plea made against Gehlaut. At a board meeting on Wednesday, Gehlaut informed the board he has taken up the position of chief executive officer of Indiabulls Ventures Ltd. “Gehlaut proposed the name of Mundra for the position of non-executive chairman of the company. The board of directors of the company unanimously agreed with the suggestion made by Gehlaut and appointed Mundra as the non-executive chairman with immediate effect,” the company said. Gehlaut has been leading the company for over 20 years since its inception in January 2000. Observers who track IHFL believe there could much more to the appointment of Mundra: the company may still be preparing for a banking licence, albeit at a later date, even as it improves its corporate governance. Analysts said the appointment of the new chief could see the company taking several steps which include improving its asset quality. After  the IL&FS crisis, players such as Indiabulls Housing Finance have faced difficulties in accessing finance at attractive rates. Gehlaut’s resignation comes at a time both banks and non-banks are witnessing the adverse impact of the Covid-19 pandemic in the form of a fall in loan disbursals and a fear of a rise in bad loans once the moratorium given by the RBI ends this month. Amid such circumstances, analysts say, the presence of a seasoned banker such as Mundra is positive for the company. Mundra was the RBI deputy governor till July 2017. Earlier, he was the chairman and managing director of Bank of Baroda and executive director of Union Bank of India. “The company has taken significant strides over the years under Gehlaut, and the board appreciated his desire to engage in another phase of institution building,” Mundra said after his appointment. “Indiabulls Housing has a committed management team, and it has done a good job in navigating the present challenging times. I look forward to now working even more closely with the management team, especially with the confidence that the board and the management is committed to keep striving to deliver strong business growth with high standards of governance backed by strong risk management practices,’’ Mundra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-317
