14-08-2020||Business||System of faceless tax appeals will come into force from Sept 25||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday launched a transparent tax platform and said the system of faceless tax appeals would come into force from September 25. Modi also rolled out a taxpayers’ charter, which outlines the rights and responsibilities of both the tax officers and taxpayers. Analysts said the charter had laid out the principles only and must be supplemented by administrative orders. The Centre has been pushing for a system to break down the interface between the tax officials and taxpayers. It has already started the system of faceless tax scrutiny — and the latest measures mark a step forward. Mukesh Butani, managing partner at BMR Legal Advocates, said, “The tax statutes need an amendment to curtail the discretionary powers of the field officials because that has predominantly contributed to the current situation. The faceless assessment and appeal scheme shall act as a restriction on individual discretion, which in my view has caused the most damage with regard to harassment.” The issue of alleged tax harassment by officers gained much attention after V.G. Siddharta, the founder of Cafe Coffee Day, committed suicide and left behind a note accusing the tax authorities of persecuting him. Under the faceless appeal  system, the appeals will be randomly allotted to any officer in the country. The identification of the officers deciding the appeal will remain unknown, and  the taxpayer will not be required to visit the income tax office or the officer. The appellate decision will be team-based and reviewed. The exceptions to the  system include serious frauds, major tax evasion, sensitive and search matters. The system also excludes international taxation and the Black Money Act and the Benami Property Transactions Act. Noted tax advocate Narayan Jain said “faceless assessments and appeals will remove the necessity of the personal appearance of taxpayers or their representatives. However, officials need to be fair and objective and decide the matters judiciously”. Sudhir Kapadia, national tax leader at EY India, said, “As an immediate relief, it would be highly desirable if the CBDT instructs the release of all pending refunds to companies as quite a few companies are left with no choice but to consider approaching courts to expedite their refunds in this pandemic-induced stressful business environment.” The income tax department has issued refunds worth Rs 71,229 crore in over 21.24 lakh cases till July 11, the finance ministry has said. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) has issued income tax refunds of Rs 24,603 crore in 19.79 lakh cases to individual taxpayers and corporate tax refunds of Rs 46,626 crore in 1.45 lakh cases to companies and all refund-related cleaning up of tax demands is being taken up on priority and is likely to be completed by August 31, the finance ministry has said. . Through the charter document, the government has committed the following to the taxpayers: To provide fair, courteous and reasonable treatment; Treat taxpayer as honest; To provide mechanism for appeal and review; To provide complete and accurate information; To provide timely decisions; To collect the correct amount of tax; To respect privacy of taxpayers; To maintain confidentiality; To hold its authorities accountable; To enable representative of choice; To provide mechanism to lodge complaint; To provide a fair and just system; To publish service standards and report periodically; and  To reduce cost of compliance. The taxpayer charter also highlights the obligations of the taxpayer like To be honest and compliant; To be informed; To keep accurate records; To know what your representative does on your behalf; To respond in time; and To pay in time. “The rights provided to the taxpayers through this charter intends to bring more clarity and provide good practices to the administration against providing stringent requirements in the income tax legislation with detailed mechanisms and processes to deal with breach of legal right. It may nevertheless be possible for taxpayers to seek its implementation contending that it ought to be binding on the administrating officers,” Kumarmanglam Vijay, partner, J. Sagar Associates, said. Shailesh Kumar, Partner, Nangia & Co LLP said “the Taxpayer's Charter in its present form intends to bring qualitative change in the way Income Tax department functions and two administrative orders limiting interaction between tax officials and taxpayers has been issued immediately after release of Taxpayer's Charter. We can see similar administrative orders in coming days to further streamline the processes and to improve taxpayers' experience with the income tax department. The same may include fixing timelines on completion of proceedings, processing various applications filed by taxpayers, issuance of refunds in addition to timelines already prescribed in the Income tax act. Presently, the Taxpayer's Charter is more on principle and setting the overall theme, which will be supplemented by administrative orders to be issued by the CBDT in times to come,” he added. Jain also said that under section 115BBE, aggregate tax is as much as 78 per cent from assessment year 2017-18. During demonetisation in December 2016 the rate was increased from 30 per cent to 75 per cent plus education cess. He demanded that the rate should be brought back to 30 per cent. The tax rates and Tax laws have to be fair and reasonable to ensure proper tax compliance, added Jain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-316
14-08-2020||Business||Retail inflation simmers at 6.93%||India’s retail inflation rose to 6.93 per cent  in July on higher food prices, remaining above the RBI’s medium-term target for the 10th straight month, according to government data released on Thursday. July’s figure was higher than the 6.23 per cent recorded in June. Food prices soared because of supply-side disruptions caused by the coronavirus lockdown. They rose 9.62 per cent compared with a jump of 8.72  per cent in June. The steady rise in coronavirus cases has disrupted the supply chain as lockdowns continue at regional levels. Fearing a sharp rise in inflation, the RBI last week kept interest rates on hold, after reducing the repo rate by a total of 115 basis points since February. The RBI has set its medium term inflation target at 4 per cent. The economy is expected to contract more than 4.5 per cent in the current fiscal year, but some analysts do not expect the central bank to cut rates further this year. “Given the distortions in supply chains and transportation, I don’t expect a rate cut in the remaining part of 2020,” said Rupa Rege Nitsure, economist at L&T Financial Holdings. M. Govinda Rao, chief economic adviser of Brickwork Ratings, said: “CPI inflation rose in July despite fewer supply-side constraints following the relaxation of lockdown. We expect food inflation to soften in the coming months with easing supply constraints and better monsoon so far. However, the core inflation may remain at elevated levels as the demand picks up, but capacity utilisation does not increase.” Devendra Kumar Pant, chief economist, India Ratings said: “MPC will watch inflation trajectory very carefully before taking decisions on rate cuts.” “The evolving trends suggest that the CPI inflation may remain appreciably above 6 per cent in August 2020, which would be the last inflation print available before the next MPC review. Accordingly, the likelihood that the MPC would persist with a pause in its October 2020 meeting has climbed sharply, with a final rate cut likely to be deferred to the December 2020 or February 2021 meeting,” Aditi Nayar, principal economist of ICRA, said. Monsoon rains are expected to be 104 per cent of the long-term average in August and September, indicating bumper harvests and helping to alleviate some of the damage caused by the pandemic. However, hopes rest on the monsoon spread which are expected to be 104 per cent of a long-term average in August and September, indicating bumper harvests and helping to alleviate some of the economic damage caused by the pandemic. The government suspended the release of CPI inflation headline numbers for April and May due to insufficient data during the lockdown. The RBI kept interest rates on hold last week after reducing the repo rate by a total of 115 basis points since February - despite a recent rise in retail consumer prices - but said it would ensure inflation remains within target. It is for the second consecutive month that the retail inflation has been above the RBI's comfort level. The government has mandated the central bank to restrict the inflation at 4 percent (+, - 2 per cent). The central bank mainly factors in retail inflation while arriving at its bi-monthly monetary policy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-316
14-08-2020||Business||H-1B visa: exemptions to ease travel restrictions||The US state department on Wednesday released a set of exemptions that will ease travel restrictions that were clamped on H-1B visa holders in June though there were some lingering concerns over certain caveats in the guidance note. In a proclamation issued two months ago, President Donald Trump suspended work visas across H-1B, L and J categories, sparking concern in the country’s technology industry. The latest guidance note says healthcare professionals and researchers travelling on a request supported by a US government agency or an entity to meet critical US foreign policy objectives will be allowed to travel to the US on these visas. The government has also allowed travel by applicants seeking to resume ongoing employment in the United States in the same position with the same employer and visa classification. Travel by technical specialists, senior-level managers and other workers whose travel is necessary to facilitate the economic recovery of the United States has also been permitted. Industry body Nasscom said it was cautiously optimistic about the exemptions but added that the guidelines still allow a lot of leeway in its interpretation. “The exceptions include potential exemptions for technology workers on H-1B/L-1 visas providing critical infrastructure services, a key ask by Nasscom and the Indian tech industry,” Nasscom said in a statement on Thursday. The association noted that it also includes exceptions for H-1B/L-1 visa-holders who would be returning to the US in the same position with the same employer and visa classification. Nasscom said it has consistently raised the importance of visa holders working in the tech sector, particularly those who would be delivering services designated essential as per the DHS CISA ‘Guidance on the Essential Critical Infrastructure Workforce’. It raised the importance of particularly those who would be returning to the US in the same position with the same employer and visa classification. Nasscom welcomed the move saying this will help US businesses access talent critical to the economic recovery phase in the post-COVID world. “However, we remain ‘cautiously optimistic’ as caveats in the DoS guidance about seniority, unique and significant contributions and/or other factors that go along with the exceptions still allow a lot of leeway in interpretation of the new guidance. The impact can only be gauged in course of time,” it added. Nasscom emphasised that this is a step in the right direction and encouraged the implementing agencies to ensure that American businesses’ access to critical talent is not hampered. US President Donald Trump, in his June proclamation, had banned the entry into the US of workers in several key non-immigrant visa categories, including the H-1B, arguing that they eat into American jobs during the COVID-19 pandemic. The H-1B visa is a non-immigrant visa that allows US companies to employ foreign workers in speciality occupations that require theoretical or technical expertise. Companies depend on it to hire tens of thousands of employees each year from countries like India and China.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-316
14-08-2020||Business||Royal Dutch Shell ready to board Nayara||Rosneft-backed Nayara Energy has received a major boost in its petrochemical plans with Royal Dutch Shell likely to buy a 50 per cent stake in the proposed project. Nayara, formerly Essar Oil, operates a 20-million-tonne refinery at Vadinar in Gujarat apart from a network of 5,700 retail fuel outlets. In January 2019, the company had announced that it is working on a milestone development programme for its Vadinar refinery and that the first stage involves a foray into the Indian petrochemical market. It had then disclosed that the first phase of the programme includes construction of units to provide for production of up to 450,000 tonnes of polypropylene per annum. The project is to be completed in 2022. The preliminary cumulative investments for the first phase was put at $850 million. Nayara had then said that the programme will be funded through internal accruals and bank financing. Subsequently, there were reports that it was looking to expand the capacity of the Vadinar refinery and set up a petrochemical complex with a capacity of around 10.75 lakh tonnes. On Wednesday, Reuters had reported that Royal Dutch Shell is planning to buy a 50 per cent stake in the proposed petrochemical project of Nayara. Quoting sources, the report said that the petrochemical joint venture between the two entities was discussed at the meeting of the board of directors of Nayara in November and December last year. The entire project, which will be completed in five years, will have a 1.8-million-tonne ethylene cracker and linked downstream units and the total cost would be around $9 billion. At present, Nayara owns and operates India’s second largest single site refinery at Vadinar. The refinery has a Nelson complexity of 11.8, which is among the highest globally which enables it to process the toughest of the crudes. Observers said that the interest shown by Shell in Nayara’s petrochemical complex reflects the potential of the Indian market and bodes well for domestic giant Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL). RIL has been betting aggressively on petrochemicals. In November last year, it confirmed plans to invest Rs 70,000 crore to establish a crude oil-to-chemicals complex at the company’s Jamnagar facility. It also commissioned a refinery off-gas cracker in January 2019 at the same site with 1.5-million-tonnes ethylene capacity. Though the industry is now facing challenging conditions amid the Covid-19 pandemic, analysts do not expect the present situation to last longer. Industry leader RIL has been betting aggressively on petrochemicals. In November last year, it confirmed plans to invest Rs 70,000 crore to establish a crude oil-to-chemicals (COTC) complex at the company’s Jamnagar facility. It also commissioned a refinery off-gas cracker in January 2019 at the same site with 1.5-million-tonnes ethylene capacity. RIL is spinning off its oil-to-chemical business into a separate subsidiary in which it will induct strategic partners.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-316
14-08-2020||Business||Titagarh Wagons in private train bid||Titagarh Wagons is open to opportunities to diversify which are emerging from Indian Railways’ move to invite private players to operate passenger train services. The city-based rolling stock maker plans to keep its options open both as a supplier of rolling stock as well as explore strategic alliances to expand business in the services space as an operator. According to Umesh Chowdhary, vice-chairman and managing director of Titagarh Wagons, the decision of the railways to invite private operators and improve the services in the passenger segment is a move that was long overdue as the freight sector already has seen private participation. “Globally, we have seen that railways provide infrastructure and trains are operated by different players. This decision of Indian Railways will revolutionise the passenger movement,” Chowdhary told The Telegraph. He added that private operators will bring in competition and efficiency and further improve the passenger experience. “At present, we are primarily a rolling stock manufacturer. It is an opportunity for us in many ways — whether as an operator or as a rolling stock manufacturer. It is too early to predict how this will take shape, but we are keeping our options open,” said Chowdhary. Titagarh Wagons is among the 23 companies that have expressed interest in operating private trains as a service provider. Alstom, BEML, Bharat Forge, Bhel, Bombardier and  GMR are among the other operators who have shown interest. Railways in July had said that it is seeking private participation in operation of passenger train services in over 109 origin-destination pairs of routes through introduction of 151 modern rakes that will be in addition to the existing trains operated on the network. A first of its kind initiative, the project is estimated to attract a private sector investment of about Rs 30,000 crore. Tenders are expected to be finalised by March 2021 and trains are expected to operate from March 2023, Railways had said in a statement. The private operators have to pay a haulage charge for using railway infrastructure and there are likely to be penalties for delay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-316
14-08-2020||Business||Limit on core investment companies||The RBI on Thursday tightened its rules on core investment companies (CICs) when it curtailed the number of layers of such entities in a group and directed them to make more disclosures. The RBI accepted the proposals of a panel under former corporate affairs secretary Tapan Ray, which had submitted its report in November 2018. A CIC is a non-banking finance company (NBFC) which carries on the business of the acquisition of shares and securities and holds not less than 90 per cent of its net assets in the form of investment in equity shares, preference shares, bonds, debentures, debt or loans in group companies. The Tapan Ray-panel had observed that the Companies’ Act 2013 restricted the group structure to a maximum of three layers, with one CIC at the top which could hold investments in step-down entities. However, NBFCs were exempted from this provision, which facilitated the proliferation of multiple layers of CICs in a group with cross-holdings. The RBI said the number of layers of CICs in a group should now be restricted to two, irrespective of the extent of direct or indirect holding or control exercised by a CIC in the other CIC. The RBI also strengthened the risk management at CICs as it looked to curb excessive leveraging. It said parent CIC in the group or CIC with the largest asset size, if there is no identifiable parent CIC in the group, will form a Group Risk Management Committee. The RBI added that if a CIC makes any direct or indirect equity investment in another CIC, it will be deemed as a layer for the investing CIC. In cases where there are more than two layers in a group, the apex bank said that they will have time till March 2023 to reorganise their business structure and adhere to this guideline. The RBI also strengthened the risk management at CICs as it looked to curb excessive leveraging. It said parent CIC in the group or CIC with the largest asset size, if there is no identifiable parent CIC in the group, will form a "Group Risk Management Committee (GRMC)".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-316
14-08-2020||Business||Tata Steel deep in red||Tata Steel on Thursday reported a sharply higher loss than anticipated by analysts for the quarter ended June 30 as the Covid-19 pandemic hit demand. The steel major posted a consolidated loss of Rs 4,609 crore compared with a net profit of Rs 695 crore in the same period of the previous year. Analysts were expecting Tata Steel to post a net loss of around Rs 2,400 crore. The loss came as total revenues slid to Rs 24,288.51 crore from Rs 35,947.11 crore in the year-ago period. The effect of coronavirus and the resulting global lockdown was reflected in its operations with production falling to 4.93 million tonnes from 6.34 million tonnes in the same period of the previous year. Tata Steel disclosed that the average steel realisations in India were lower because of the Covid-19 impact during the quarter and about Rs 2,000 crore of costs were under-absorbed because of the lower volumes. The performance of Tata Steel Europe was also affected because of the overall weakness in economic activities in Europe and a sharp drop in spreads. Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL) on Thursday reported nearly doubling of net profit in the June quarter after inventory gains offset a decline in refining margins and fuel sales. The standalone net profit in April-June stood at Rs 2,076.17 crore compared with Rs 1,075.12 crore a year back. The company earned $0.39 on turning every barrel of crude oil into fuel compared with a gross refining margin $2.81 a barrel a year ago in the same period of the previous year. Fuel sales in the quarter that saw economic activity coming to a halt due to nationwide COVID-19 lockdown slipped to 7.53 million tonnes when compared to 11.11 million tonnes sales last year. The company disclosed that to preserve cash flows and focus on disciplined capital allocation, it has curtailed growth capex for this year and the focus is primarily on safety environment and sustenance capital expenditure. “During the quarter, we re-calibrated our operations and our sales across geographies in line with underlying regulatory and market conditions..Economic activity is gradually recovering. In India, we have ramped-up our capacity utilizations to 90 per cent levels with total sales in June exceeding 2019-20 average monthly sales. We are further ramping up capacity utilization and increasing domestic sales which will lead to an improvement in our margins in coming quarters’’, V Narendran, CEO & Managing Director, Tata Steel said. Tata Steel disclosed that given the heightened economic uncertainty, it has  ramped up the liquidity buffer to Rs 20,144 crore which will be deployed to deleverage as business conditions normalize. “Tata Steel responded very swiftly to the pandemic in April and despite the national lock down in India, the company remained focus on its cash flow management to generate a free cash flow quarter and maintained its net debt at the March 2020 level. This was achieved through cross functional co-ordination and cash war room initiatives covering fixed cost reduction, working capital management through better inventory management, focus on debtors, working with suppliers and other initiatives. This enabled the company to generate free cash flow of Rs 700 crore post capex and other obligations’’, Koushik Chatterjee, Executive Director and CFO, Tata Steel said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-316
