15-08-2020||Business||Hindalco in the red after 18 quarters||Hindalco Industries has reported its first loss in 18 quarters as volumes fell after the coronavirus lockdown disrupted economic activities. Net loss of the billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla’s company stood at Rs 40 crore in the June quarter compared with a Rs 23-crore profit a year ago, according to an exchange filing on Friday. That’s the first loss since the third quarter of 2015-16. On a consolidated basis, the company posted a loss of Rs 709 crore for the quarter. It had posted a profit after tax (PAT) of Rs 1,063 crore in the April-June quarter a year ago. Hindalco said that “Q1 consolidated PAT for continuing businesses before tax-effected exceptional and special items stood at Rs 139 crore”. The Aditya Birla Group firm in a statement said  “on account of certain special items, including charitable contributions towards COVID relief, ex-gratia paid to employees for their contribution during COVID, and Aleris acquisition costs, the reported PAT was impacted”. Indian Bank on Friday posted the first result after amalgamation of Allahabad Bank in April. The Chennai-based lender reported a net profit of Rs 369 crore for the June quarter of 2020 against Rs 492 crore a year ago for the combined entity. On a standalone basis, however, net profit of Indian Bank was Rs 365 crore during the April-June quarter of 2019-20, reflecting a marginal rise. The bank’s net interest income grew 17 per cent to Rs 3,874 crore during the quarter against Rs 3,316 crore a year ago. Net interest margin was 2.83 per cent. “The key parameters of income, cost efficiency and profitability have improved both year on year and quarter on quarter. Asset quality has improved,” said Indian Bank chief executive Padmaja Chunduru. “The Bank has made upfront provisions in two accounts and also contingency provisions for Covid-19. The accounts under moratorium constitute above 23 per cent and there is very good progress being made on the collection front, month on month,” said Chunduru. “The amalgamation is going on track and we expect to complete it in the current financial year," she added.
The bank is also looking to unlock value in two of its subsidiaries - Ind Bank Merchant Banking Services and Ind Bank Housing and will also explore the rationalisation of unviable and slow growth branches.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-315
15-08-2020||Business||Auditor to GVK Power offers to quit||Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP wants to resign as the statutory auditors of GVK Power as it says the group is not providing them with the necessary information for audit of the financial statements for 2019-20. On August 13, the auditors had in a letter to the company’s audit committee said their decision to resign would be “effective immediately upon discharge of their obligations” under the Companies Act, 2013 read with Sebi circular in October 2019, GVK Power told  bourses on Friday. GVK Airport Holdings, a subsidiary of GVK Power, is the parent company of Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL), holding more than 50 per cent stake. The other stakeholders in MIAL are Bidvest, ACSA and the Airports Authority of India. Earlier, Bidvest had entered into an agreement with the Adanis to sell its entire stake in the airport for Rs 1,248 crore. The Adanis had also offered to buy out ACSA at a similar price. However, its plans hit a roadblock. There have also been reports of the GVK group raising over Rs 7,500 crore from an investor. The auditors, who were appointed for a term of five years in September 2017, alleged that despite several communications to the audit committee and the management since July 3, with regard to audit of financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2020, which is under progress, necessary information was not provided to conclude the audit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-315
15-08-2020||Business||India returns to $4.83bn trade deficit in July||The country returned to a trade deficit of $4.83 billion in July, a month after a rare trade surplus in over 18 years, as imports increased, showing signs of a pick-up in business activity. Exports, contracting for the fifth straight month, slipped 10.21 per cent to $23.64 billion in July, on account of decline in the shipments of petroleum, leather and gems and jewellery items, according to government data released on Friday. The country’s imports, too, dipped 28.4 per cent to $28.47 billion in July, leaving a trade deficit of $4.83 billion compared with a shortfall of $13.43 billion a year ago. The outward shipments in July, however, recovered from a steeper decline of 60.28 per cent in April, 36.47 per cent in May, and 12.41 per cent in June. Fieo president Sharad Kumar Saraf said, “All this has been possible because of the start of business activities across the country and enquiries from almost all major economies which has helped to bring exports to almost 90 per cent of the July 2019 level.” The wholesale price-based inflation continued to remain in the negative zone for the fourth straight month at 0.58 per cent even as the prices of vegetables and other food items were costlier. WPI inflation in June was (-) 1.81 per cent, while for the month of May and April it was (-) 3.37 per cent and (-) 1.57 per cent, respectively. Retail inflation, however, rose to 6.93 per cent in July from 6.23 per cent in the preceding month. "The annual rate of inflation, based on monthly WPI (Wholesale Price Index), stood at (- 0.58 per cent) (provisional) for the month of July, 2020 as compared to 1.17 per cent during the corresponding month of the previous year," the commerce and industry ministry said in a statement. In contrast, the data released by the National Statistical Office on Thursday showed that retail inflation accelerated to 6.93% in July from 6.23% in the preceding month, with food inflation rising to 9.62% from the June level of 8.72%. Saraf, however, said the global revival and business sentiments still have not picked up, impacting the global supply chain. The government focus should be on FTAs and more of multilateral agreements to further revive our exports and take up competition coming from smaller countries like Vietnam, Bangladesh and Taiwan. Aditi Nayar, principal economist with ICRA said “the rare trade surplus seen in June 2020 predictability vanished with some recovery in merchandise imports in July 2020, which stamped out the further improvement in merchandise exports. This trend is likely to strengthen in the coming months, as demand for non-oil non-gold imports starts to normalise, gold imports gather steam around the festive/marriage months, and crude oil demand and prices stabilise at a moderate level.” “Merchandise imports had lagged the extent of recovery shown by many high frequency indicators in Q1 FY2021. With the imports of some diverse categories of goods recovering in July 2020 relative to the previous month, such as petroleum products, gold, project goods, electronic goods etc., domestic demand appears to be emanating from the lockdown-induced torpor,” she added. EEPC India chairman Mahesh Desai said “engineering exports are amongst a handful of sectors which managed to post a positive trend of 8.6 percent growth as global demand for essential metals and other related items have started to bounce back. However, with resurgence of cases in several parts of the world, it would be difficult to say whether the positive trend can be sustained going forward.
“
The oil imports declined by 31.97 per cent to $ 6.53 billion in the month under review and gold imports grew by 4.17 per cent to $1.8 billion. During the April-July period, exports declined by 30.21 per cent to $74.96 billion, while imports fell 46.7 per cent to $ 88.91 billion. Trade deficit during the period stood at $13.95 billion. New Delhi: The wholesale price-based inflation continued to remain in the negative zone for the fourth straight month at 0.58 percent even as the prices of vegetables and other food items were costlier. WPI inflation in June was (-) 1.81 per cent, while for the month of May and April it was (-) 3.37 per cent and (-) 1.57 per cent respectively. "The annual rate of inflation, based on monthly WPI (Wholesale Price Index), stood at (- 0.58 per cent) (provisional) for the month of July, 2020 as compared to 1.17 per cent during the corresponding month of the previous year," the commerce and industry ministry said in a statement. In contrast, the data released by the National Statistical Office on Thursday showed that retail inflation accelerated to 6.93% in July from 6.23% in the preceding month, with food inflation rising to 9.62% from the June level of 8.72%. Inflation in food articles was at a four-month high level of 4.08 per cent in July, mainly due to sharp rise in vegetable prices. Inflation in vegetables stood at 8.20 per cent, against (-) 9.21 per cent in June. Pulses saw inflation of 10.24 per cent, while for potatoes it was 69.07 per cent in July. Protein rich items like egg, meat and fish saw hardening of prices with inflation at 5.27 per cent. However, onion prices softened and inflation fell 25.56 per cent, while in fruits it was (-) 3.03 per cent. Inflation in the fuel and power basket fell 9.84 per cent in July, compared to 13.60 per cent drop in the previous month. Manufactured products, however, witnessed inflation of 0.51 per cent in July, against 0.08 per cent in June. Analysts said the difference in weightage assigned to different goods/items that make up the two baskets. In CPI, food has a much higher weightage than in the wholesale basket. So, a rise in food prices will cause a bigger spike in the CPI basket than in the WPI one. Similarly, manufactured goods are given more weightage in the wholesale basket. Therefore, any movement in the price of such items will move the WPI more than it does the CPI. While WPI does not include services, the retail price index does, which impacts final numbers. Madan Sabnavis, chief economist with Care Ratings said weightage assigned to different components is one of the factors behind the varying trend between WPI and CPI. Another is that retail inflation takes into account services, which has gone up sharply and pushes up the CPI numbers. Retail margins higher for food due to more intermediaries. “One of the key reasons for subdued wholesale inflation is the depressed prices of manufactured items. Manufactured items have 64.2 % weight in the wholesale price index. The average inflation witnessed in the manufactured items during the past twelve months is -0.1% due to the weak demand conditions in the economy,” Sunil Kumar Sinha, Principal Economist, India Ratings said. He said “the wholesale and retail inflation though paint a contrasting picture and policy prescription, the nominal anchor for RBI is retail inflation. The retail inflation in combination with recent industrial production data makes the emerging scenario even more complex due to the divergence in trend. While the industrial production data may support further easing of policy rate, retail inflation breaching RBI’s upper band of 6% in seven out of the last eight months may suggest otherwise. Ind-Ra believes RBI will watch inflation trajectory very carefully and in the interim would continue with the accommodative policy stance but pause on further rate cuts.” The RBI in its policy review last week kept interest rates unchanged and said it sees an upside risk to inflation. The apex bank projected retail inflation to moderate in October-March period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-315
15-08-2020||Business||Flipkart to deliver alcohol in Bengal and Odisha||Walmart-owned Flipkart has teamed up with Diageo-backed HipBar to deliver alcohol in Bengal and Odisha. The development comes after Flipkart’s rival Amazon had in June received approval to deliver liquor in Bengal. Flipkart and Amazon’s interest in delivering alcohol in India marks a bold move to make inroads into an alcohol market that is worth $27.2 billion, according to estimates by IWSR Drinks Market Analysis. The local governments of Bengal and Odisha have said that Flipkart can be associated as a technology service provider of Diageo-backed HipBar, an Indian alcohol home delivery mobile application. Flipkart’s customers will  have access to HipBar’s application. HipBar will then deliver the order after collecting the products from retail outlets. Amazon.com on Friday launched an online pharmacy in Bangalore. The service, Amazon Pharmacy, has begun and will soon offer deliveries across the city, Amazon said. It offers both over-the-counter and prescription-based drugs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-315
15-08-2020||Business||Wider radar to stop tax dodge||In a move to widen the tax base and plug evasion, the government plans to bring transactions such as hotel bills over Rs 20,000, education fee of over Rs 1 lakh and purchase of jewellery, white goods, marble or painting over Rs 1 lakh under the scanner of the income tax department. The government has proposed to expand the list of reported transactions to include domestic business class air travel or foreign travel, cash deposit of Rs 10 lakh or more in non-current accounts, sale of foreign exchange above Rs 10 lakh, payment of property tax above Rs 20,000 per year, life insurance premium above Rs 50,000 and health insurance premium above Rs 20,000, mygov.in said in a tweet on Thursday which has been subsequently removed. As part of the multiple reforms to improve tax compliance, faceless assessment and the ease of filing returns, the government has proposed to reduce the threshold of various transactions for tax disclosure. Tax experts said to bring more transactions under the scanner would require an amendment of the Income Tax Act. Section 285A is an enabling section, which empowers the CBDT to prescribe various transactions for reporting to the I-T department. Noted tax advocate Narayan Jain said, “This has been done with the objective of widening the tax base but monetary limits need to be revisited and should be reasonably increased so that compliance becomes easier. In the case of financial transactions or payments above Rs 50,000 and up to Rs 2 lakh, furnishing of PAN should be enough.” “Taxpayers claim deduction for medical insurance  and life insurance premium. So, it may be illusory to cover the same for the purpose of reporting or for mentioning in Form 26AS. Again, in most of the cases, the property tax paid is  claimed as deduction for computing income from house property. The taxpayer charter assured of minimising compliance cost but these reporting measures are likely to substantially increase the compliance cost,” he added. The government has also proposed to deduct TDS at higher rates for those who do not file income tax returns. There is also a proposal for compulsory filing of ITR by those having bank transactions above Rs 30 lakh, all professionals and businesses having turnover of more than Rs 50 lakh and payment of rent above Rs 40,000. More transactional categories in the reporting imply an enhanced flow of information to tax authorities, but will put the onus on taxpayers to comply voluntarily. When implemented, it will also be reflected in Form 26AS, the consolidated annual statement showing tax deductions/ collections and advance tax against an individual’s PAN.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-316
15-08-2020||Business||DoT claims on Reliance Communications contested||State Bank of India, the lead banker of the committee of creditors which is overseeing the bankruptcy resolution process at Reliance Communications (R-Com), has virtually tried to repudiate the Centre’s claim to roughly Rs 25,000 crore worth of unpaid telecom licence fee dues of the former Anil Ambani-owned company. Creditor banks had steered R-Com into the insolvency process in May 2019, ostensibly giving it a cloak of protection against operational creditors, including the department of telecom (DoT). The DoT has been pressing hard to realise Rs 1.47 lakh crore in pending telecom dues from 15 mobile telephony licence holders, many of whom have already hit the wall and no longer offer services. On Friday, Harish Salve, lead counsel for R-Com’s committee of creditors, argued that the telecom company’s financial creditors like the banks and financial institutions had the first claim to any payout by the telecom company under the terms of the insolvency process. Operational creditors like DoT would simply have to wait. Salve told the court that the CoC had “complete autonomy to decide who gets how much”. In several IBC cases, operational creditors have received next to nothing as the financial creditors pounced on the assets of the bankrupt firms. “Operational creditors (like DoT) cannot be paid on a par with the financial creditors,” Salve told the court during the hearing. Salve went on to add that SBI believed that the spectrum that had been leased to R-Com for 20 years had to be treated as an asset of the telecom companies — a line of argument that the Centre has consistently challenged on the grounds of Constitutional privileges that confer rights to all resources in the country, including radio waves on the sovereign. The R-Com spectrum has been farmed out to Reliance Jio under a spectrum sharing deal in 2016. The apex court bench comprising Justices Arun Mishra, S. Abdul Nazeer and M.R. Shah wanted to know the details of the spectrum sharing pact and asked why Jio could not be asked to pay the adjusted gross revenue (AGR) related telecom dues on behalf of R-Com. “Jio needs to explain why we should not catch hold of you to pay the AGR dues. By sharing R-Com revenue, you (Jio) have gained revenue... this is revenue sharing. If Jio is using public assets like spectrum, why should Jio not be liable to pay the AGR dues.” “We want details of spectrum sharing agreements entered into by all insolvent companies. We want to know who is using the spectrum of the insolvent companies,” the bench said while adjourning the matter till August 17 (Monday). The bench asked the DoT to submit the documents certifying all spectrum sharing arrangements. Senior advocate Shyam Divan, who appeared for the resolution professional appointed to look after the day-to-day affairs at R-Com, said the government had been informed about the spectrum sharing agreement in 2016 and relevant fees paid. “When the sovereign right is transferred to the telco for using spectrum, can the dues arising become subservient to the dues claimed by secured creditors?” Justice Mishra observed. “There is a need to ensure that the IBC is not misused by companies to escape liabilities,” the bench said. We can lay down the law if required for the IBC process. Dues arising out of the use of natural, public resources cannot be (treated as) merely operational dues, a matter of public money,” Justice Mishra observed. On July 2, the apex court had agreed to consider a staggered payment schedule for the long-pending AGR dues of the telecom companies. But before it passed its verdict, the court had sought clarity on the insolvency claims made by R-COm, Videcom and Shyam Sistema Teleservices. The court wanted the other insolvent telecom companies like Aircel and Shyam Sistema to also come out with details of their spectrum sharing agreements, if any, with other players.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-316
