16-08-2020||Business||ICICI raises Rs 15000cr through QIP issue||ICICI Bank, the country’s second-largest private sector lender, on Saturday said it has raised Rs 15,000 crore through qualified institutional placement (QIP) after completing the allotment of equity shares under the offering. The proceeds from the issue will be used to strengthen the capital adequacy ratio of the bank and improve its competitive positioning or general corporate requirements. Investors were allocated 41.89 crore shares at an issue price of Rs 358 per share. “The issue price represents a 1.9 per cent premium to the floor price determined based on the pricing formula as prescribed under Regulation 176(1) of the Sebi ICDR Regulations and a discount of 1.5 per cent to the closing price of the bank’s equity shares on the BSE/NSE prior to the launch of the issue,” ICICI Bank said in a statement. Earlier this week, the bank had set a floor price at Rs 351.36 per share for the offering. The issue opened on August 10 and closed on August 14. Following the allotment of shares, the paid-up equity share capital of the bank has increased to Rs 13,790,821,242 consisting of 6,895,410,621 equity shares of face value Rs 2 each from Rs 12,952,832,416 consisting of 6,476,416,208 equity shares of face value Rs 2 each, ICICI Bank said. During the share sale, the Monetary Authority of Singapore picked up 4.6 crore shares, representing 11.06 per cent of the QIP size. Other prominent investors included Morgan Stanley Global Opportunity Fund and Societe Generale-ODI, picking up 7.31 per cent and 5.55 per cent, respectively. The equity issuance also witnessed healthy participation from global and domestic investors, including foreign portfolio investors, domestic mutual funds and insurance companies, the lender said. With the latest fund raise, ICICI Bank has joined a group of lenders, including the nation’s largest housing finance company HDFC, which raised more than Rs 14,000 crore last week. Others like Axis Bank and Kotak Mahindra Bank have also raised capital as the system braces for a loan impairment impact because of the Covid-19 crisis. It is feared that the banking system could see a rise in bad loans during the second half of this fiscal as the relaxations given by the Reserve Bank of India come to an end. The central bank has also been asking lenders to beef up their capital in advance, expecting a rise in NPAs. ICICI Bank said that it is well-positioned to serve the market and benefit from the opportunities that would arise going forward. In these extraordinary times of the coronavirus pandemic, the bank will continue to strive to serve its customers and also emerge stronger as an institution, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-315
16-08-2020||Business||Not liable to pay Reliance Communications dues: Jio||Reliance Jio’s four-year-old telecom spectrum sharing deal with Reliance Communications (R-Com) is not connected to the latter’s past statutory dues that pertain to the period prior to 2016 when Jio wasn’t even in operation, sources close to the company said. A Supreme Court bench had on Friday sought to know why Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd (RJIL) must not pay the adjusted gross revenue (AGR) dues of R-Com as it has been using the latter’s spectrum since 2016. A source, refusing to be quoted as the matter is sub-judice, said RJIL in April 2016 entered into a pact to share a part of the spectrum held by R-Com and its unit Reliance Telecom. The shared spectrum was limited to the 800MHz band and was strictly in accordance with the department of telecom’s (DoT) spectrum sharing guidelines. R-Com’s 2G, 3G and 4G spectrum in the 1,800 MHz band are not being shared. The AGR dues of R-Com and RTL are in no manner connected with this shared spectrum, the source said, adding that the AGR has been paid by both R-Com/RTL and RJIL on the revenue generated from the shared spectrum. The dues related to the 2G/3G business of R-Com/RTL which it was carrying out prior to 2016, the time when RJIL was not even operational, the source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-315
16-08-2020||Business||Jaguar Land Rover bailout talks with UK government fails||Bailout talks between Jaguar Land Rover and Tata Steel with the UK government have ended, leaving both firms to rely on private financing to overcome the impact of coronavirus on business, the Financial Times reported on Friday. The report here said that talks for an emergency funding fell through as Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) did not qualify for taxpayer support. It is the luxury car unit of India’s Tata Motors and Tata Steel, both owned by Indian conglomerate Tata Group. The bailout plan, titled “Project Birch”, had been authorised by finance minister Rishi Sunak in May to rescue companies that are seen as strategically important, with the Treasury saying it may step in to support crucial businesses on a “last resort” basis after other options run out. The report, citing a source familiar with the matter, said that the funding scheme became infeasible for Tata as it imposed strict conditions on any lending. “Tata Steel remains in ongoing and constructive talks with the UK government on areas of potential support,” Tata Steel said in an emailed statement. The UK Treasury said it would not comment on individual companies. Tata Motors did not immediately respond to request for comment. Ongoing trade conflicts and Covid-19 has adversely impacted JLR vehicle sales in 2019-20, which contracted by 12 per cent year-on-year. A significant part of the volume decline occurred in the fourth quarter of 2019-20. JLR was able to improve its profitability during the year and reduce its cash outflows, compared with previous years despite a decrease in volumes through a host of structural initiatives to drive efficiencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-315
16-08-2020||Business||Top taxmen can order raids||Only the director-general of income tax (investigation) and the chief commissioner for income tax (TDS) can approve I-T raids and all communications from the department to the taxpayer, assessee and any third party will be in the name of the National e-Assessment Center (NeAC). In an order, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) has said the officers posted in directorates of investigation and commissionerates of TDS, “only and exclusively” shall act as “income tax authority” for raids under section 133A of the Income Tax Act. “The competent authority for approval of such survey action u/s 133A of the Act shall henceforth be DGIT (Inv) for investigation wing and Pr. CCIT/CCIT (TDS) for TDS charges, as the case may be,” said the order. Noted tax expert Narayan Jain said: “The decision of the CBDT in taking away powers of survey for jurisdictional officers, the joint CITs and CITs is a step in the right direction. “In many cases, they used to conduct survey and obtain confession under pressure to meet collection targets. The survey powers of the investigating wing should be used sparingly and they must act in a fair manner. The TDS authorities have limited powers of survey and they should act within that. The TDS official cannot impound books of account or computer records.” Under section 133A of the Income Tax Act, an income-tax officer or any authorised inspector of income tax can enter any place within the limits of the area assigned to him, or any place occupied by a person who falls under an officer’s jurisdiction or at a location where business or profession is carried on, for tax surveys and raids. The officer concerned may also inspect books of account or other documents as he may require and which may be available at such a place. The issue of alleged tax harassment by officers gained much attention after V.G. Siddharta, the founder of Cafe Coffee Day, committed suicide and left behind a note accusing tax authorities of persecuting him. The income tax department has embarked on the journey of faceless tax administration. Further, the CBDT has notified the National e-Assessment Centre (NeAC) in Delhi and various Regional e-Assessment Centres (ReACs) across 20 cities in the country for implementation of the scheme. The CBDT has now given the detailed guidelines for the implementation of the scheme and role of residual charges. Shailesh Kumar, partner, Nangia & Co LLP, said: “This detailed internal guidance note by the CBDT has clarified that apart from assessment proceedings, a large number of other functions such as rectification proceedings, demand collection management, tax recovery proceedings, proceedings to give effect to appellate orders, etc. shall remain with the field officers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-315
