17-08-2020||Business||RBI's recap skip call||The government may not have to inject fresh capital into the public sector banks (PSBs) as the one-time loan restructuring permitted by the RBI has reduced additional fund requirement by them. Also the poor credit offtake on account of the coronavirus pandemic may obliterate the need for significant growth capital during the current fiscal, sources said. There may not be a sudden surge in non-performing assets (NPAs) after the six-month moratorium comes to an end this month as it is followed by a one-time loan restructuring, sources said, adding, provisioning requirement is also quite low for the debt recast accounts. Moreover, most of the public sector banks have taken approval in advance to raise tier-I and tier-II capital during the current fiscal depending on the need. Despite all these, sources said, if at all there is a need for regulatory capital requirement by some public sector banks towards the end of the current fiscal, the government will provide that like it has done in the past. In 2019-20, the government infused Rs 70,000 crore into PSBs to boost credit to give  a strong impetus to the economy. However, the government refrained from committing any capital in Union Budget 2020-21 for the PSBs, hoping that the lenders will raise funds from the market depending on the requirement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-314
17-08-2020||Business||Rush for gold funds ||Gold ETFs witnessed an inflow of Rs 921 crore in July, a surge of 86 per cent from the preceding month, as new investors rushed to add the precious metal in their portfolios in view of higher prices. With this, the net inflow in the gold exchange traded fund, or ETF category, has reached to Rs 4,452 crore in the first seven months of the year, data with the Association of Mutual Funds in India (Amfi) showed. According to the data, a net sum of Rs 921 crore was pumped into gold-linked ETFs last month, higher than the net Rs 494 crore in June. The inflows meant assets under management (AUM) of gold ETFs climbed 19 per cent to Rs 12,941 crore at the end of July from Rs 10,857 crore in June-end. Month-wise, investors put in a net Rs 202 crore in January, Rs 1,483 crore in February, but withdrew Rs 195 crore in March on profit-booking. Inflows resumed in April at Rs 731 crore, followed by Rs 815 crore in May. “Gold prices continued to scale new highs on the back of weakness in the dollar, tension between the US and China and consistent rise in Covid-19 cases globally, which boosted its safe-haven appeal,” said Himanshu Srivastava, associate director-manager research at  Morningstar India. “With all major economies staring at recession due to the spread of coronavirus pandemic, gold, expectedly, has emerged as one of the best performing asset classes and a preferred investment destination among investors,” he added. Srivastava further said the surge in coronavirus cases has cast a doubt on the swift recovery hopes and investors continue to hedge their exposure to riskier assets by investing a portion of their assets in gold, as it is seen as a safe haven in times of uncertainty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-314
17-08-2020||Business||Industry felt impact in last fiscal||As many as 159 companies listed on the BSE cumulatively saw a decline of Rs 22,538 crore in their EBITDA in the three months ended March 2020 compared with the December quarter, reflecting an early impact of the coronavirus pandemic, says a report. EBITDA stands for earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation. For the report, leading consultancy EY India analysed March quarter results of the top 300 BSE-listed companies and 115 global firms spanning over 12 sectors to evaluate the impact of Covid-19 disruptions on their reporting calendar, profitability, financial position, liquidity, disclosures and other key parameters. “The analysis relies on the details of the pandemic’s impact as presented by companies in their results or any public document pertaining to their quarterly reporting,” EY India said. It was done for the March quarter results of top BSE 300 companies that were announced till June 5. Most of the companies experienced a material impact on financial performance indicators such as EBITDA, revenue, debt and interest service coverage, provisions, profitability as and earnings per share (EPS), it noted. According to the report, 159 BSE 300 companies saw Rs 22,538 crore decrease in EBITDA in the March 2020 quarter compared to the preceding December quarter, 2019 “as early impacts of pandemic and resulting changes in macro-economic factors,” EY India said. Sectors that experienced significant negative influence of the pandemic and unfavourable macro-economic changes were BFSI (banking, financial services and insurance) aviation, automotive, power, oil & gas and travel, the report noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-314
17-08-2020||Business||SUV appeal endures during pandemic||SUVs are blazing the roads amid the debris of the pandemic. As many as 12 of the 18 models launched since March have been SUVs or SUV bodytypes, braving a downturn in the market that is consistently reporting falling sales month-on-month. Car makers have lined up another 27 models by the end of the calendar year — of which 15 will be SUVs, taking the number of planned launches to 27 in just nine months. The industry, on the other hand, continues to be sucked into the vortex of a slump  with July sales down over 30 per cent. Manufacturers, however, have taken it on their chin as they lure customers with fresh launches every month. Analysts said consumers are downgrading their choices with the contraction in the economy and falling incomes. “But once the pandemic is over, people will go back to their preferred vehicle, that is the SUV,” an analyst said. Shashank Srivastava, executive director, sales and marketing, Maruti Suzuki India Ltd, pointed out the markedly different type of SUVs favoured by the buyers. “In India, SUVs have a different connotation altogether. It is not the 4x4 offroader that is the choice of the consumers here,” he said. “Rather it is the urban SUV, a 2x2 avatar with SUV bodystyle that is favoured. And why just India, SUV bodystyle is the choice all over Europe, China too,” Srivastava said. Maruti has the S-Presso, Ignis, XL6 with an SUV-ish design. For Hyundai, it is the SUV that is giving the company its numbers. The new Creta launched in March has garnered 65,000 bookings with 60 per cent of  the sales coming from the diesel variant. Tarun Garg, director (sales, marketing & service), Hyundai Motor India Ltd,  said, “Hyundai Creta has redefined the SUV landscape since its launch in 2015 and has crossed 5-lakh sales mark.” Hyundai sold more than 34,000 units of the Creta, Venue, Tucson and  Kona Electric. The Korean company has products in all the segments, including the hatchback and sedan, but is betting big on its SUV range because of its high profitability, Garg said. Toyota Kirloskar India Limited (TKIM), which is poised to launch its first compact SUV Urban Cruiser this month, is seeing a revival at the lower end of the market. “The market composition is veering towards what it was five years ago with compact cars seeing a revival of sales,” said Naveen Soni, senior vice-president, sales and service, Toyota Kirloskar. The Japanese  company is witnessing a growth in the lower end of its product range with the Glanza comprising 25 per cent of its sales. Both the Glanza and the upcoming model Urban Cruiser are cross-badged vehicles from Maruti. “In a contracting industry, Glanza has been able to hold on to its sales of 2,000 units per month. We think the Urban Cruiser, an A segment SUV, will be a good enabler in the current market,” Soni said. For Tata Motors, it’s the compact SUV and the premium hatchback that are seeing good numbers. “The number of first time car buyers is very high in the market. Also people are buying additional cars preferring personal mobility to mass transit. These first time buyers are opting for compact SUVs or premium hatches priced Rs 5 lakh upwards. The segment below Rs 10 lakh is growing,” said Vivek Srivatsa, head of marketing, passenger vehicle business unit, Tata Motors. Kia Motors, which had a dream debut with the SUV Seltos in the top 10 bestselling list every month, will have its compact SUV Sonet in the market in September. The other entrant to the market, MG Motors, has launched its six-seater Hector Plus and is gearing up to launch the MG GS.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-314
17-08-2020||Business||NBFCs suffer from cash flow mismatch||Non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) could face a cash flow mismatch with the Reserve Bank of India allowing a one-way restructuring of advances, a senior industry representative said. NBFCs are concerned over falling cash inflows following the moratorium to its clients even as they repay the banks for their borrowings which are not under moratorium. Sunil Kanoria, vice-chairman, Srei Infrastructure Finance Ltd, said the proposed restructuring programme was designed without any consultation with the industry. “NBFCs are not manufacturers of goods; they borrow money from banks and from the wholesale market,” Kanoria said. Since NBFCs have been directed to offer moratorium to their clients and are expected to restructure the loans of their customers, it is only fair that they should be allowed to get their borrowings restructured, Kanoria said, adding “otherwise, it will create serious mismatch in their cash flows”. He said a representation has been made to the RBI requesting the regulator to address the anomaly of the cash flows to ensure the financial stability of the NBFC ecosystem. Kanoria said a loan should be restructured after assessing the financial position and future cash flow of the borrower and should not be restrained with timelines and portfolio sizes. While announcing the one-time restructuring of MSMEs, the RBI has fixed the aggregate exposure of the borrower at Rs 25 crore as on March 1, 2020 and mandated the restructuring to be done by March 31, 2021. “If deadlines have to be set, it should be liberal, till at least March 2022. We should also wait for the expert committee, led by K.V. Kamath, to make suggestions,” Kanoria said. He said some large NBFCs backed by the government may be able to steer their operations through the pandemic, but others would have to work out strategies. Many NBFCs, including Srei, have been selling portfolios and banks flush with liquidity have been the major buyers. Despite the challenges, deepened by the IL&FS defaults and overall risk aversion from the banking sector, the borrowings of the NBFC sector from the banks have shown an uptrend. RBI data show that the share of long-term market debt in the total borrowings of the NBFC sector has declined from 49.1 per cent at the end of March 2018 to 40.8 per cent at the end of December 2019. The funding gap was met through bank borrowings that rose from 23.1 per cent to 28.9 per cent over this period. Kanoria said that while a consolidation of NBFCs may not be an ideal solution, the regulator can encourage mergers between banks and systemically large NBFCs. “It has happened in the past and there are success stories from such mergers. This will provide a long-term solution to the current liquidity conundrum for NBFCs and will help in expanding the reach of banking services to larger numbers of SME and MSME customers,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-314
17-08-2020||Business||Gas price may fall below $2||Prices of natural gas in India are likely to be cut to $1.9-1.94 — the lowest in more than a decade — from October, denting the revenues of producers such as ONGC who are already incurring huge losses on production. A price revision is due from October 1 and going by the changes in the benchmark rate in gas exporting nations, the price is likely to be anywhere between $1.90 and $1.94 per million British thermal unit (mBtu), sources privy to the development said. This will be the third straight reduction in rates in one year. Prices were cut by a steep 26 per cent to $2.39 per mBtu in April. Prices of natural gas, which is used to produce fertiliser and generate electricity and is also converted into CNG for use in automobiles as fuel and cooking gas for households, are set every six months — on April 1 and October 1 each year. Sources said the cut in prices would mean a widening of losses for India’s top oil and gas producer ONGC. Oil and Natural Gas Corp (ONGC) had posted a Rs 4,272-crore loss in its gas business in 2017-18, which is likely to widen to over Rs 6,000 crore in the current fiscal (April 2020 to March 2021), they said. ONGC has been incurring losses on the 65 million standard cubic metres per day of gas it produces from domestic fields soon after the government in November 2014 introduced a new gas pricing formula.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-314
17-08-2020||Business||Vistara set to fly abroad ||Private carrier Vistara is likely to start flight operations between India and the UK, Germany and France under the bilateral air bubble arrangements that have been signed with these countries, sources in the aviation industry said on Sunday. Earlier this month, India and the UK signed a bilateral air pact, under which the airlines of both the countries can operate international flights with certain restrictions. India had signed similar bilateral pacts with Germany and France in July. Vistara got its second B787-9 wide-bodied aircraft on Saturday. It had received its first B787-9 aircraft in February. “Vistara has already got the slots at the Heathrow airport in London. The flights between Delhi and London are likely to be announced in the next few days,” an industry source said. The Delhi-London flight is likely to operate thrice a week, the source added. A wide-bodied aircraft has a bigger fuel tank that allows it to operate long-haul flights. Vistara has 43 planes in its fleet, of which 41 are narrow-bodied aircraft such as A320neo and B737-800NG. The full-service carrier is also likely to operate flights between India and Germany and India and France, another aviation industry source said, adding that the probable destinations for these flights are Frankfurt and Paris respectively. It is not clear which Indian cities will be connected to Frankfurt and Paris by Vistara. The private carrier did not respond to the queries. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 amid the coronavirus pandemic. The aviation sector has been significantly impacted because of the travel restrictions imposed in India and other countries in view of the pandemic. All airlines in India have opted for cost-reducing measures such as pay cuts, leave without pay and firing of employees in order to conserve cash. India resumed domestic passenger flights on May 25 after a gap of two months. The airlines have been allowed to operate a maximum of 45 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights. However, the occupancy rate in the domestic flights has been around just 50-60 per cent since May 25.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-314
17-08-2020||Business||Brace for hard times, warns Kumar Mangalam Birla ||Kumar Mangalam Birla has said the country’s GDP may not only contract in 2020-21 but the next few years are also likely to be characterised by difficult conditions even as there could be other post-Covid changes reflected in consumer behaviour and the operating models of companies. Birla, who is one of the country’s leading industrialists with diversified interests ranging from commodities and telecom to financial services, said in a letter to shareholders that while the domestic economy may witness its first contraction in more than four decades in this fiscal, some scars from the current pandemic would last longer for the world economy in the form of subdued consumer and business confidence. Some sectors, such as airlines and hospitality, will take time to recover fully, while some supply chain disruption effects will linger. He pointed out that as the world emerges from the current crisis, the next few years are likely to be marked by a lack of buoyancy in growth, subdued commodity prices and inflation, a cautious trend in project investments, heightened risks of de-globalisation and political uncertainty; and increased dependence of financial systems on ultra-loose monetary policy conditions. “We will also have to watch out for potential post-Covid changes in consumer behaviour (such as more virtual engagements) and of the operating models of organisations (such as work-from-home norms, diversification of supply chain risks, more use of e-commerce),” he added. Birla, thus, joins the list of several economists who are forecasting a challenging year for India with recovery only expected next fiscal. While experts feel that the Indian economy may show a double-digit contraction in the first quarter of the fiscal with some estimates even putting it at over 40 per cent and that for the year as a whole, it may shrink by over five per cent. According to Birla, Covid-19 struck India at a time the underlying economic conditions were subdued on account of heightened global uncertainty and stress in the domestic financial system. A stringent national lockdown to slow the spread of the pandemic started in the last week of 2019-20 and remained active in varying degrees in different geographies through most of the first quarter of 2020-21. “It is estimated that about 80 per cent of India’s GDP originates from districts which were classified under the red and orange zones during the lockdown, where economic activity remained severely constrained,” he said. The Aditya Birla group chairman added that though the government and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) have taken various measures to stabilise the economy and boost growth, the Indian economy — like the global economy —will still need to navigate through some difficult quarters. Given the fog of uncertainty all around, it is hard to be prescient in these times, Birla added. Steel demand is expected to decline significantly in 2020-21 in line with a projected contraction in the global economy due to the impact of coronavirus pandemic, Tata Steel has said in its annual report. Most of the steel producing regions are expected to witness a decline in crude steel output due to production cuts amid the ongoing lockdowns, Tata Steel said. The global economic growth is expected to see a contraction of over 3 per cent in 2020, Tata Steel chairman N. Chandrasekaran said, terming the slump as the “worst contraction” since the 1930s. A contraction in global GDP is not a good sign for the steel sector as steel demand is positively correlated with the economic growth. “Global GDP growth eased to 2.9 per cent in 2019 against an initial growth projection of 3.5 per cent... As we look ahead, it is important to gauge Covid-19’s unprecedented impact on the global economy. It is expected that global growth will contract by over 3 per cent in 2020, the worst contraction since the 1930s," Chandrasekaran said in the Annual Report for 2019-20. “But there is little doubt on one reality: companies with quality leadership, sound business fundamentals and a track record of winning in turbulent times, will emerge as champions in the new global order,” he said. This year will see an economic contraction, but this 2020 recession is turning out very different from the past recessions, he observed. Birla was, however, quick to add that on the positive side, this recession is likely to be one of the shortest, assuming no second wave of the pandemic recurs. As present lockdowns around the world get lifted, and businesses reopen, economic activity is likely to bounce back fairly quickly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-315
17-08-2020||Business||Gold is on a roll||Since the beginning of 2019, one asset class has emerged the clear winner. It’s gold. Ten grams of 24k gold cost around Rs 32,500 in January 2019. Since then, there’s been a nearly 70 per cent appreciation, with gold future prices appreciating to over Rs 57,400. Gold had flatlined for nearly a decade. But global economic uncertainty started driving it up again before the explosive growth with the arrival of a global pandemic. The pandemic continues to disrupt daily life and economic adversities continue to compound in many economies. It is expected that gold will continue to do well in the near future. So what should the small investor do? Gold thrives in economic uncertainty. During those periods, while everything else crashes and burns, gold shines. Investors use it as a hedge against uncertainty, volatility and inflation. To them, gold is insurance. If global stock indices are crashing, you may be able to stabilise your portfolio through gains in gold. With fiat currencies becoming less valuable in developed countries, people’s faith in the metal may continue to increase. According to Goldman Sachs, a weakening dollar and falling interest rates could push gold prices up from the current $1,930 per ounce levels to around $2,300 in the next 12 months. Others see it going higher. “Gold has entered a bullish phase that can last several years,” said The Arora Report. “There is better than 50 per cent probability of gold approaching $3,000 in this cycle.” Jefferies believes it could rise to $4,000. Clearly, there’s a belief that prevalent instabilities will keep driving up prices. Investors who had been buying gold through the recent past have gained immensely from the ongoing rally. But for new investors looking to get in, the growth prospects are unclear. Therein lie the risks and rewards. You can invest according to your risk appetite to cash in on short-term trends. However, from a long-term perspective, it would be wiser to buy small quantities of gold regularly and systematically. For example, you could buy a gram every month for several years. This would slowly help you create a gold corpus while lowering price-related risks. By the time another global economic crisis comes along, the gold you have slowly accumulated will give you stability. The key with buying gold is having just enough to stabilise your portfolio during times of volatility but not so much as to drag your wealth growth during periods of prosperity. In ten-year periods starting August 1980 and ending August 2010, gold grew at approximate annual rates of -5.20 per cent, -2.63 per cent, and 15.85 per cent considering absolute prices. In the 10 years since then, it grew at 4.61 per cent. Between August 2012 and August 2018, it flatlined at -0.2 per cent. Over the next two years, it would grow at 32 per cent. The point here is that gold flatlines for long periods of time but can grow in short, explosive bursts. If you have too much, you may not achieve growth for prolonged periods. If you have too little, it will not make a meaningful impact on your portfolio during periods of volatility. Many experts believe gold should constitute 5-10 per cent of a portfolio. This is a useful yardstick. However, you can pick a number based on your own unique situation after assessing your risk appetite, investment goals, and liquidity needs. The obvious and traditional choice is to buy gold in its physical form, be it jewellery, coins, bars or something else. You could buy them from your preferred shop or even online via reputable sellers. This option is also useful from the point of using the gold. However, you need to factor in making charges, applicable taxes, concerns over purity, and costs of safe storage into your investment objectives. If you’re looking at gold purely as an investment, you must also consider buying gold exchange-traded funds, gold mutual funds or Sovereign Gold Bonds. ETFs and MFs can be easily bought online from the fund house of your choice, while the SGBs can be bought several times a year from authorised banks, stock exchanges, or online trading platforms. As a long-term investment, the SGB scores over other options because of sovereign guarantee, tax-free returns on maturity, and an additional interest income on the price which is the icing on the cake. You could also buy or sell digital gold through authorised payment apps. In conclusion, while the investment opportunity in the coveted yellow metal may seem hard to overlook, one must approach the decision-making process in a pragmatic manner — both in terms of investment amount and investment mode. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-315
