18-08-2020||Business||Liberty Group open to idea of acquiring Tata Steel UK assets||Liberty Group founder Sanjeev Gupta says he is ready to acquire Tata Steel’s Port Talbot facility if the opportunity arises. Gupta, who was born in Ludhiana but spent two years of his childhood in Park Street’s Apsara Apartment when his parents moved to Calcutta, says: “The Tatas are very close to Liberty Group; always have been. We have done many things together. We are always open for every type of co-operation with them.” Asked if he would look at Port Talbot if it was offered by the Tatas, Gupta said: “Of course.” Gupta, executive chairman of UK-based GFG Alliance which includes Liberty Steel, spoke to The Telegraph a day after the media in the UK reported that the government and the Tatas had failed to agree on a financial rescue package for Tata Steel UK. Gupta added: “We will look at any steel assets, not only Port Talbot, that may come our way in the markets we operate in.” The London-based investor, known to pick up stressed assets, had bought Tata Steel UK’s speciality steel business for £100 million three years ago. Speculation about Tata Steel looking to sell its chronically loss making steel business in the UK that devolved from its $12-billion Corus acquisition in 2007 resurfaced after the Boris Johnson-led government refused to provide any bailout funds to haul the steel mill out of its Covid-induced crisis. Asked if the pressure will mount on the Tatas to look for a buyer or induct a partner after failing to secure bailout funds, Gupta said he could not speculate on what the Tatas should or should not do. However, Liberty appeared to have become a favoured port of call whenever large legacy integrated players look to shed flab. When ArcelorMittal was required to offload a few European mills to pass the competition control test before acquiring Ilva in Italy in 2019, Gupta was right there scooping up seven units spread across the continent. Soon after, GFG brought steel operations in the UK, Europe and Australia under Liberty Steel, making it one of the top-10 producers outside China with a rolling capacity of 18 million tonnes (mt). After losing out on the big ticket acquisitions, Gupta plans to weave a string of pearls — mid sized assets close to a million tonnes — to mark a meaningful presence in India. Liberty’s bids for Amtek Auto and Bhushan Power & Steel did not work out but it did manage to acquire a smaller one — Adhunik Metaliks Ltd, which used to be based in Calcutta and had plants in Odisha. Gupta said he would not be satisfied with Adhunik alone and was looking to acquire a few more steel assets over the next 12-18 months. Going forward, he would also venture into renewable energy. “India will be a hub for Liberty for sure. We would like to see at least 5 million tonnes (steel) in the next five years, organically or inorganically. Liberty wants to be a meaningful player and below 5 mt, it won’t be in a big market like India,” Gupta said. GFG — acronym for Gupta Family Group — Alliance, which had a lofty target to become a carbon neutral steel producer by 2030, will prefer coastal assets — in the southern and western parts of India — to inland ones, to take the benefit of Liberty’s global value chain. Gupta, however, understands the importance of a good start. “A successful start of Adhunik will give us confidence and it will help us to build on it. Lot of revamping has been done (in Adhunik). We are, of course, delayed a bit due to Covid. Initially, we would like to get to existing capacity of half a million tonne and then expand it to a million tonnes later,” Gupta said. “We perhaps underestimated the diligence process. It is a more complicated market for sure and we underestimated those complications. But we have very good understanding in running a business in India,” Gupta said. “I would like to come every month. But our movement is now restricted due to Covid.” Would he like to visit Calcutta too? Gupta said he did, and two years back he went up to Apsara Apartment and knocked on the very flat where he spent a couple of years. “I used to live here,” he had told the bemused current owner of the property.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-313
18-08-2020||Business||Trai issues spectrum usage charges sop||In a relief to operators, the telecom regulator has said spectrum usage charges (SUC) will be levied only on the shared spectrum band and not on all the bands of a licensee. Regulator Trai clarified that in cases involving the sharing of radiowaves, the stipulated increment of 0.5 per cent on the SUC rate should apply only on the spectrum held in the specific band where sharing is taking place and not on the entire spectrum holding of the licensee. The telecom regulator has also recommended that suitable exit clauses for the termination of existing spectrum-sharing arrangement by the operators be included in the spectrum sharing guidelines. At present, companies pay 3-5 per cent of their adjusted gross revenue  as spectrum usage charge to the department of telecom. If they share spectrum with another operator, operators must pay an additional 0.5 per cent of AGR for that band as SUC. The recommendations are the outcome of a consultation paper titled “Methodology of applying spectrum usage charges under the weighted average method of SUC assessment in cases of spectrum sharing” that was floated by Trai in April this year. At present, companies pay 3-5 per cent of their adjusted gross revenue (AGR) as spectrum usage charge to the department of telecom. If they share spectrum with another operator, operators must pay an additional 0.5 per cent of AGR for that band as SUC. In January, the telecom department had said the existing norms for sharing of access spectrum by operators provide that the SUC rate of each of the licencees post sharing increases by 0.5 per cent of the AGR. The Department of Telecom (DoT) also informed that it has received representations requesting that incremental SUC rate of 0.5 per cent post sharing should be applied only to the particular spectrum band which has been allowed to be shared between the two licencees and not on the entire spectrum held by licencees, since sharing is allowed in a particular band. It is in this background that DoT requested Trai to furnish its recommendations on whether the incremental 0.5 per cent in SUC rate in cases of sharing of spectrum should be applied only on the specific band in which sharing is taking place; or on the overall Weighted Average Rate of SUC, which has been derived from all bands. The two prominent spectrum sharing arrangements were between Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd and Reliance Communications for the 800 MHz spectrum owned by the latter, and Tata Teleservices sharing its spectrum in 1,800 MHz and 2,100 MHz in around half a dozen circles with Bharti Airtel. While Reliance Jio acquired some spectrum in the 800-Mhz from Reliance Communications before it shut shop, Bharti Airtel acquired all the spectrum along with the entire consumer mobile business of the Tata group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-313
18-08-2020||Business||Britannia board approves bonus debentures for current fiscal||FMCG major Britannia on Monday said its board has approved bonus debentures and declared an interim dividend of Rs 83 per share for the current fiscal. The record date for the interim dividend has been fixed as August 27. “The board of directors at the meeting held on Monday have declared an interim dividend of Rs 83 per equity share of face value of Rs 1 each for 2020-21,” Britannia Industries told the bourses. The board has also given its approval to the issue of unsecured, non-convertible, redeemable, fully paid-up debentures, along with an “appropriate cash component”, subject to the applicable tax laws, by way of a bonus to the shareholders of the company. The issue is subject to deduction or withholding of applicable taxes and necessary statutory and regulatory approvals, including that of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Calcutta bench. Britannia will announce a detailed disclosure about the issue as and when the board of the company approves the scheme of arrangement. This is not the first time that Britannia is issuing bonus debentures. The last time the company issued a similar instruments was in 2018. The company had then issued secured, redeemable non-convertible debentures as bonus debentures of Rs 60 in the ratio of one debenture for every share at an interest rate not exceeding 8 per cent to be paid annually for a period of three years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-314
18-08-2020||Business||RBI lifts freeze on Bandhan Bank CEO remuneration ||Bandhan Bank on Monday said the RBI has lifted its freeze on the remuneration of the bank’s managing director and CEO Chandra Shekhar Ghosh. The RBI on September 19, 2018, had imposed two restrictions on the city-based bank for non-compliance with its licensing conditions — opening of bank branches without the central bank’s prior approval and freezing the remuneration of the MD and CEO at the existing level. According to the licensing conditions, the bank was supposed to bring down the promoter holding to 40 per cent of the total paid-up voting equity capital within three years from the start of operations, that is by August 22, 2018. The bank amalgamated Gruh Finance Limited with itself effective from October 2019 and the shareholding of the non-operative financial holding company (NOFHC) was subsequently diluted to 60.96 per cent from 82.23 per cent. The bank further diluted the NOFHC holding through secondary market sale earlier this month. “Considering the progress of the dilution of excess shareholding of NOFHC in the bank, RBI vide its letter dated February 25, 2020, has withdrawn the restriction imposed for obtaining prior approval of RBI for opening of banking outlets,” Bandhan Bank told the stock exchanges. The statement added that RBI vide communication dated August 17, 2020 has lifted the other regulatory restriction of freezing the remuneration of MD and CEO of the Bank. Ghosh had drawn a remuneration of Rs 2.1 crore in the last fiscal. The Bandhan Bank scrip was down 0.31 per cent at Rs 287.30 a piece on the BSE. With the clearance on remuneration freeze, the microfinance institution-turned-bank said that all regulatory restrictions are now withdrawn. In its annual report, Bandhan Bank has disclosed that Ghosh had drawn a remuneration of Rs 2,10,41,874 in FY 2019-20. The Bandhan Bank scrip was down 0.31 per cent at Rs 287.30 a piece on the BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-314
18-08-2020||Business||HDFC Bank faces US lawsuit following allegations of misleading investors||US-based Rosen Law Firm on Monday said it planned to investigate potential securities claims against HDFC Bank following allegations of sharing “materially misleading business information” with investors. Reacting to the development, a spokesperson of HDFC Bank said in an interim response that the lender is unaware of any such class action lawsuit. “We are getting details of it. We’ll examine it and respond to it as appropriate. Prima facie it does look frivolous as we believe we have been transparent in our disclosure,” the spokesperson added. “Rosen Law Firm is preparing a securities lawsuit on behalf of HDFC Bank shareholders,” the global investor right law firm said on its website. Citing some news reports about alleged unfair business practices and that the lender had missed analysts’ estimates on profits for the first quarter ended June 30, Rosen Law Firm said it was preparing a securities lawsuit. The reports related to the private sector lender conducting a probe into the allegations of improper lending practices and conflicts of interests in its vehicle-financing operations involving the unit’s former head. The HDFC Bank American depository receipt share price fell 2.83 per cent following the report, it added. The law firm said it will investigate “potential securities claims on behalf of the shareholders of HDFC Bank Ltd resulting from allegations that the bank may have issued materially misleading business information to the investing public”. Last year, Rosen Law had prepared a similar class-action suit against Infosys after a whistleblower had alleged malpractices by a few key management personnel. The suit was dismissed in May this year. “If you purchased securities of HDFC Bank please visit the firm’s website...to join the securities action,” Rosen Law Firm said. Last month, HDFC Bank had launched a probe on its vehicle finance lending practices following allegations against the conduct of a key executive in the auto lending business. However, the bank said that this probe will not have any bearing on the loan book, or will not cause any loss to the bank. Speaking to shareholders at its annual general meeting, Aditya Puri, HDFC Bank managing director and CEO, had said that the bank had received a whistleblower complaint and subsequently, it conducted an internal investigation into the auto loan business. Following this, the bank had taken action against some employees. Rosen Law Firm represents investors throughout the globe, concentrating its practice in securities class actions and shareholder derivative litigation, according to its website. Shares of HDFC Bank on Monday ended marginally lower at Rs 1033.55. The largest Indian private sector lender had posted a 22 per cent rise in its consolidated net profit at Rs 6,927 crore in the April-June quarter of current financial year 2020-21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-314
