19-08-2020||Business||Rules for National Payments Corporation of India rival||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has set a net worth criteria of Rs 500 crore for an umbrella entity governing retail payments that will compete against the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI). The central bank released the framework for setting up umbrella entities to operate pan-India retail payments systems. It had invited applications from eligible companies by February 26, 2021. A policy paper put out by the central bank in January 2019 said that though the NPCI has become an organisation which is key to the operations of many of the critical retail payment systems of the country, there is “concentration of many tasks”. The NPCI, which offers services such as UPI, IMPS and BHIM, is an umbrella organisation for operating retail payments and settlement systems in India. It was formed under the initiative of the RBI and the Indian Banks’ Association (IBA), under the provisions of the Payment and Settlement Systems Act, 2007. Companies with a net  worth of over Rs 500 crore will be eligible to set up an umbrella entity which will be permitted to set up, manage and operate new payment systems in the retail space comprising ATMs, White Label PoS, Aadhaar-based payments and remittance services. The umbrella entity will be permitted to operate clearing and settlement systems for banks and non-banks. It will identify and manage relevant risks such as settlement, credit, liquidity and operational; and preserve the integrity of the system. One of the key condition is that entities applying as promoter or promoter group will be owned and controlled by resident Indian citizens. Capital requirements under Fema will apply for foreign investments in the applicant. RBI added that if there is any Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) or Foreign Portfolio Investment (FPI) in the applicant entity, it will fulfil, additionally, the capital requirements as applicable under the rules framed under FEMA. The guidelines also elaborated on the 'fit and proper' requirements for promoters or promoter groups. "No single promoter/promoter group shall have more than 40 per cent investment in the capital of the umbrella entity," the guidelines said. The promoters or promoter groups should upfront demonstrate the capital contribution of not less than 10 per cent -- Rs 50 crore -- at the time of making application for setting up the umbrella entity.  The balance capital will be secured at the time of commencement of business/operations. It further said the promoter or promoter group shareholding can be diluted to a minimum of 25 per cent after 5 years of commencement of business of the umbrella entity. However, a minimum net worth of Rs 300 crore should be maintained at all times, as per the guidelines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-312
19-08-2020||Business||PwC lists 10 macro steps that can aid economic revival||PricewaterhouseCoopers India has listed 10 macro steps that can aid economic revival along with the downside risks in a research report released on Tuesday. The macro steps include investment towards development of physical infrastructure, a targeted regional development for central and eastern states, strengthening exim logistics and processes, improving digital and agricultural infrastructure, promoting creation of MSMEs, improving healthcare, pharmaceuticals, transforming financial services and democratisation of learning through ed-tech sector. The challenges include inadequate resources, lack of execution, weak last mile delivery and digital security risks. “While strategies in organisations and policies in government are well constructed, translating them to on ground impact requires knowledge of last mile execution," the report said. PwC had earlier set out three scenarios for India’s growth over a 20 year period ending in 2034. They were 6.6 per cent growth through rapid human capital and some infrastructure spend, 7 per cent growth with further infrastructure build and a 9 per cent growth trajectory with significant additional productivity improvement. The report said that over the past 5 years, the average growth of the economy has been 6.8 per cent. “If we can increase our average growth rate to 9 per cent from the pre Covid-19 five year average of 6.8 per cent and by deepening and widening of the economy make growth more inclusive, we can create 3 additional India’s with a cumulative additional GDP of USD 10 trillion, in a decade post recovery,” the report, presented by Shashank Tripathi, government strategy & transformation leader, PwC India said. “This (pandemic) is a severe exogenous shock for the Indian economy, but it can also be a transformative moment for India. We have an opportunity to rethink our approach, reconfigure our business system and restart our economy,” said Shyamal Mukherjee, chairman, PwC India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-312
19-08-2020||Business||More air bubble pacts: Aviation minister||India is negotiating with 13 countries, including Australia, Japan and Singapore, to establish separate bilateral air bubble arrangements for international flight operations, civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Tuesday. Under a bilateral air bubble pact, airlines of both the countries can operate international flights with certain restrictions. Puri said air bubbles have also been proposed with neighbours Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Afghanistan, Nepal and Bhutan. Since July, India has established such bubbles with the following countries — the US, the UK, France, Germany, the UAE, Qatar and the Maldives. Puri said, “We are now taking these efforts forward and are negotiating with 13 more countries to establish such arrangements.” “These countries include Australia, Italy, Japan, New Zealand, Nigeria, Bahrain, Israel, Kenya, the Philippines, Russia, Singapore, South Korea and Thailand.” Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 because of the coronavirus pandemic. The ministry of civil aviation will place a proposal for “further” privatisation of airports before the Union cabinet on Wednesday, Puri said. In the first round, the airports in Lucknow, Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Mangaluru, Thiruvananthapuram and Guwahati were cleared for development through public-private partnership  model in February 2019. The Airports Authority of India had in September 2019 recommended privatisation of  airports in Amritsar, Varanasi, Bhubaneswar, Indore, Raipur and Trichy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-313
19-08-2020||Business||Rs 110 lakh crore infrastructure challenge||The government is scouting for funds for the Rs 110-lakh-crore infrastructure projects planned over the next five years. The Centre is considering the option of tapping the financial markets, global investors, and banks for the implementation of the projects. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had emphasised on these infrastructure projects during his Independence Day speech. However, the plans could go haywire if it cannot find the necessary resources. The National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP) plans to spend Rs 110 lakh crore on nearly 7,000 projects across sectors such as transport, communications, urban development, energy and water. The plan is a grand vision involving private and state-run players and many believe it is too ambitious in its scope. The identified projects across various sectors would help to create social and economic infrastructure to be implemented over the next five year. According to official data, these projects include the Rs 3.66 lakh crore Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana, the Rs 1.08 lakh crore Mumbai-Ahmedabad high speed rail corridor and the Rs 1.09-lakh crore North South Dedicated Freight Corridor. The finance ministry is looking at various options for resource generation as the funding options suggested by the NIP committee seems to have gone awry due to the coronavirus pandemic which  posed a massive strain on central and state government budgets. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s virtual bilateral meeting with United Arab Emirates (UAE) Minister of State for Financial Affairs Obaid Al Tayer and urging the Middle Eastern nation to participate in India's ambitious Rs 111 lakh crore infrastructure project should be seen in this context, sources said. Also, it would difficult get the private sector to participate in such infrastructure project with huge costs and long gestation period, analysts said. Analysts also said project implementation capacity of state government has been hit hard due GST collections have halved and the central funds devolution has been delayed. The investment envisaged between fiscal years 2020 and 2025 is a mix of private and public investment. While around 18-20 per cent of the pipeline is expected to be financed through the central government budget, around 24-26 per cent is expected to be financed through the state’s budget, the NIP report had said. About 31 per cent of the required resources are to be raised through debt from bond markets, banks and non-bank financial companies (NBFCs), and around 4-10 per cent as equity from private developers, external aid multilateral and bilateral agencies and internal accruals. However, a funding gap of around 15-17 per cent is estimated. To fill it, the task force suggests asset monetisation by the Centre and states and setting up of new development finance institutions (DFIs).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-313
19-08-2020||Business||Uco Bank to raise funds||State-run Uco Bank has secured approvals from its board of directors and shareholders to raise Rs 3,000 crore capital this fiscal as the lender requires resources to grow and also provide for non-performing assets, an official said on Tuesday. The capital will be raised at an appropriate time either through a public offer or a qualified institutional placement (QIP) or preferential issue, Uco Bank MD and CEO A.K. Goel said. “We need capital for both growth and provisioning. Demand for credit is slowly recovering,” he said. The bank’s provision coverage ratio (PCR) is more than 86 per cent, he said, adding that the asset quality scenario will be known after the moratorium on loan repayment is over by the end of this month. “By the third quarter, we will be able to see what extra provisioning is needed. When the time will be conducive, we will raise capital. We are monitoring the market condition,” he said. Goel also said an uptick in credit demand has been witnessed. “People are going for vehicle loans to buy cars to go to offices because of the pandemic. There is a slow recovery of credit off-take,” he added. Speaking about the possibility of coming out of the restrictive prompt corrective action framework, Goel said meetings with the regulator could not be held in the current situation. The Calcutta-based lender posted a net profit of Rs 21.46 crore in the first quarter of the current fiscal. Both levels of the non-performing assets and the capital adequacy ratio by the end of the first quarter should enable the bank to come out of the PCA, he added. Gross non-performing assets came down to 14.38 per cent of the total advances as on June 30, 2020, from 24.85 per cent in June 2019 and 16.77 per cent by the end of March 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-313
19-08-2020||Business||Telcos told to give data on priority plans||Telecom regulator Trai has asked Airtel and Vodafone Idea to submit all pending data post their priority plan presentation on August 10, as the regulator moves closer to finalising its views on the contentious issue, a source said. The regulator recently sent reminders to the two companies to submit the additional data to back their claims, the source told PTI. Following this, Vodafone Idea has sent some information and sought time till August 20 to submit the rest, while Airtel's response is awaited. The source privy to the development said that the companies had made certain claims in the presentation before the regulator on August 10, and that Trai (Telecom Regulatory Authority of India) had asked all related data to be submitted. A reminder was sent this week to the two companies to make all pending submissions, and record of discussion has also to be circulated by Trai. The regulator is expected to finalise its views in the next few days, the source added. Trai has asked the two companies to give details on the source of data they presented, as also international reference or studies. It has asked how the companies intend to accommodate disaster management and other emergency functions, especially keeping in mind needs of the Telecom Department and other agencies, given the backdrop of priority plans. Emails sent to Airtel and Vodafone Idea remained unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-313
19-08-2020||Business||Tata Steel switches to 12-hour shift||Tata Steel’s Jamshedpur plant, which pioneered an eight-hour shift for workers in the country, will switch to an extended 12-hour schedule later this month to contain the spread of Covid-19. The company received an approval from the Jharkhand government on Monday allowing the change which requires special exemption under labour law. Tata Steel said the proposed realignment would minimise the number of people who would enter and or exit the factory at any given point of time and also restrict large congregations on the shop floor. “In view of the situation because of the Covid-19 outbreak we had approached the Jharkhand government to allow a 12-hour shift operation (from the existing eight hours). The primary objective of the request was to reduce the footfall of employees on the shop floor and also reduce the number of days of exposure of an employee to an outside home environment. The Jharkhand government has now exempted Tata Steel from various provisions relating to weekly hours, daily hours, intervals for rest under the Factories Act 1948,” said Tata Steel’s spokesperson. Several other states had already allowed extended hours during the lockdown, including Odisha, where Tata Steel operates two large integrated steel plants such as in Jamshedpur. The company had then switched to 12-hour shifts at Kalinganagar and Angul plants to limit the number of people inside the facilities. These units are now largely back to the eight-hour module. According to the Jharkhand notification, an adult worker will be allowed to work in a factory at Tata Steel, Jamshedpur, for up to 12 hours in a day and 72 hours in any week, the spokesperson added. The notification is in line under section 5  of the Factories Act, which states that during a public emergency that is threatening the security of the country or any part of it, whether by war or external aggression or internal disturbances, a state government may issue a notification to exempt any factory or class of factories from all or any provision of the Act, for a maximum of three months. Set up in 1907, the Jamshedpur works comprise a 9.7 million tonne per annum crude steel production facility and a variety of finishing mills, employing  17,000 people on rolls and another 35,000 thorough vendors. It was a pioneer in introducing an eight-hour shift way back in 1912, much before the Factories Act of 1948 (section 51 of the Act says- no adult worker shall be required or allowed to work in a factory for more than forty-eight hours in any week). “We are planning shift patterns wherein we will reduce the footfall of employees on the shop floor and also reduce the number of days of exposure to not more than 48 hours in a week even with 12 hours shift, thereby also maintaining work life balance. We are in discussion with Tata Workers` Union to start a 12-hour shift as a pilot in two departments—sinter plant and new bar mill,” the spokesperson added. President of the century old Tata Workers Union (one of the earliest trade unions of the country) R Ravi Prasad confirmed the development. “We have got the information from the management and the 12-hour shift will roll out later this month on a pilot basis at the two departments and gradually across other departments. We are working out on the timing but initially it would be between 8 am and 8 pm and then between 8 pm and 8 am,” said Ravi Prasad. Incidentally, the existing three-shift roster has employees working between 6 am and 2 pm, between 2 pm and 10 pm and then between 10 pm and 6 am.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-313
19-08-2020||Business||Reliance Industries acquires Netmeds||Reliance Industries on Tuesday announced the acquisition of a majority stake in Netmeds, the Chennai-based online pharmacy, for a cash consideration of around Rs 620 crore. Under the terms of the deal, RIL subsidiary Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd will pick up a 60 per cent stake in Vitalic Health and a direct 100 per cent stake in three of its subsidiaries —Netmeds Marketplace, Tresara Health Private Ltd, and Dadha Pharma Distribution Pvt, the Mukesh Ambani-owned entity announced late on Tuesday night. Speculation about the deal has been brewing for a while and it now sets the stage up for a battle royale in the online pharmacy space after Amazon launched its own venture that has already started accepting orders for both over the counter and prescription-based drugs in Bangalore earlier this week. It will also have to contend with existing players like 1Mg and Medlife. Incorporated in 2015, Vitalic and its subsidiaries have been in the business of pharma distribution, sales, and business support services. Netmeds connects customers to pharmacists and enables doorstep delivery of medicines, nutritional health and wellness products. “This investment is aligned with our commitment to provide digital access for everyone in India. The addition of Netmeds enhances Reliance Retail’s ability to provide good quality and affordable health care products and services, and also broadens its digital commerce proposition to include most daily essential needs of consumers. We are impressed by Netmeds’ journey to build a nationwide digital franchise in such a short time and are confident of accelerating it with our investment and partnership, Isha Ambani, director, RRVL said while commenting on the strategic investment. “It is indeed a proud moment for Netmeds to join Reliance family and work together to make quality healthcare affordable and accessible to every Indian. With the combined strength of the group’s digital, retail and tech platforms, we will strive to create more value for everyone in the ecosystem, while providing a superior Omni Channel experience to consumers," said Pradeep Dadha, Founder & CEO, Netmeds. Apart from pharmacy, analysts say that Reliance Industries will also increase its focus on online learning in the coming months. In 2018, it acquired around 73 per cent in education technology provider Individual Learning Pvt Ltd (Embibe). In 2018, a RIL subsidiary had invested in KareExpert Technologies, a digital healthcare platform. Then there is the JioHealthHub app which allows users to book a test, get check-ups and store health data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-313
19-08-2020||Business||Supreme Court doubt over AGR relief plan||The issue of whether a company under bankruptcy was liable to pay its dues to the government remained shrouded in claims and counter claims at a Supreme Court hearing on Tuesday on the adjusted gross revenues (AGRs) of telecom players, prompting the apex court to signal its unwillingness to accept the pleas of the operators to stagger their payment of Rs 1.47 lakh crore in the dues over a 20-year period. The court said the 20-year grace period sought by the operators cannot be countenanced as the plea is vulnerable to “manipulation” and protracted litigation, to frustrate its October 2019 judgment that had mandated the refund. “There are huge dues payable, how can we let it go? “We had directed payment within a certain period. The government is seeking 20 years, what if companies go into  insolvency?” “In 20 years, all kinds of manipulation and legal filings can take place, we can't allow like this. Mr (Harish) Salve (counsel) you may raise technical points, but no technicalities will come in our way in enforcing recovery of AGR dues,” the bench of Justices Arun Mishra, Abdul Nazeer and M.R.Shah said. The bench made the observation while examining  whether operators such as R-Com and Aircel can seek insolvency proceedings in an apparent bid to avoid compliance of the court’s October 2019 judgment for AGR dues payment. The bench, which would continue hearing in the matter on Wednesday, was told by senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Jio and Committee of Creditors (CoC) of R-Com, that it would be premature to decide if spectrum can be sold or not under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC).  He said that only when the R-Com resolution applicant moves the Department of Telecom (DoT) for spectrum sale, the issue will be decided. Salve argued that the insolvency proceedings against R-Com were triggered by Ericsson, which could not be withdrawn even after the Swedish company was paid its dues. He said the CoC has accepted a resolution plan which envisages auction of R-Com spectrum subject to DoT approval. On the issue of whether Reliance Jio was liable to pay the dues of R-Com on account of a spectrum-sharing deal between them, Salve said “There is no question of one operator paying the AGR dues of another operator. Jio has already paid its relevant dues.” On Tuesday, the top court had asked the Centre to clarify its stand on why Jio, which is earning revenue by sharing RCom's 800 MHz spectrum, be not asked to pay the AGR related dues to the government. The Centre had told the top court there was a difference of opinion between the DoT and ministry of corporate affairs on  the sale of spectrum during insolvency proceedings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-313
19-08-2020||Business||People's Bank of China acquires stake in ICICI Bank||The People's Bank of China (PBOC) — the Chinese central bank — is using the portfolio route to pick up stakes in Indian companies amid the standoff between New Delhi and Beijing in Ladakh and the Modi government tightening its rules on foreign direct investment (FDI) from China. After picking up a stake in the country’s largest pure mortgage lender HDFC, the PBOC has acquired a very small stake in ICICI Bank through the recently closed Rs 15,000-crore qualified institutional placement (QIP) by the country’s second largest private sector lender. The PBOC was among 357 institutional investors that subscribed to the issue. Sources confirmed that the Chinese central bank had picked up shares worth Rs 15 crore. Based on current market capitalisation, the stake of the PBOC in ICICI Bank is about 0.0065 per cent. The share price of ICICI Bank on Tuesday settled with gains of 2.54 per cent, or Rs 9.15, at Rs 369.40 on the BSE. The Chinese central bank’s latest investment comes after it pared some of its stake in the first quarter of this fiscal in HDFC after a rise in tensions between India and China. It had earlier raised its stake in HDFC to above 1 per cent during the January-March 2020 quarter. As its holding came below 1 per cent, the PBOC's name did not figure in the list of investors having a stake in the housing finance company as of June-end. Central banks typically make investments in various asset classes including gold, foreign currencies and bonds, covering both government and corporate ones. During the QIP of ICICI Bank last week, the Government of Singapore picked up 4.6 crore shares, representing 11.06 per cent of the total size on offer. Other prominent investors included Morgan Stanley Investment Funds Global Opportunity Fund which picked up 7.31 per cent and Societe Generale-ODI, 5.55 per cent. Proceeds of the issue will be used towards strengthening the capital adequacy ratio of the bank, improving the bank’s competitive positioning or general corporate requirements apart from any other purposes as may be permissible under the applicable law. However, the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) criticised ICICI Bank for allowing the PBOC to invest in the lender despite strong sentiments prevailing in the country against Chinese companies. The CAIT said that this was the second such instance of the Chinese bank trying to make inroads into the Indian financial system after it made an investment in HDFC earlier this year. The traders body asked the finance minister to direct both ICICI Bank and HDFC Ltd to return the investments by the Chinese entity. The CAIT said in a statement that it has urged finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to take immediate cognizance of this matter and devise a policy framework to thwart China’s plans and protect the sovereignty of the banking system as also advise the RBI to take necessary steps immediately. CAIT secretary-general Praveen Khandelwal added that there is nothing concrete yet from the RBI to restrain and control the funds coming from China.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-313
