20-08-2020||Business||Govt to charge higher aviation security fee from Sept 1||The Civil Aviation Ministry has decided to charge higher aviation security fee (ASF) from domestic as well as international passengers from September 1, senior government officials said on Thursday. Making the air travel slightly costlier, the officials said the ASF for domestic flyers will be increased to Rs 160 from Rs 150 starting next month, and international passengers will pay 5.2 USD instead of 4.85 USD as the ASF from September 1. Airlines collect the ASF from passengers when they book their tickets and then give it to the government. The ASF is used to fund the security arrangement at airports across the country. The ministry had increased the ASF last year too. On June 7, 2019, the ministry said domestic passengers would be charged Rs 150 instead of Rs 130 as the ASF and international passengers would be charged 4.85 USD instead of USD 3.25 as the ASF from July 1, 2019. The aviation sector has been significantly impacted due to the travel restrictions imposed in India and other countries in view of the coronavirus pandemic. All airlines in India have taken cost-cutting measures such as pay cuts, leave-without-pay and firings of employees in order to conserve cash. After a gap of two months due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown, India resumed domestic passenger flights on May 25. However, the average occupancy rate in Indian domestic flights has been around just 50-60 per cent since May 25. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic. However, special international flights have been operating with the approval of aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-311
20-08-2020||Business||Sales slide prods Bengal to review liquor tax||The Bengal government is considering a change in the tax structure after liquor sales dropped in the state following a 30 per cent additional tax it had imposed in April just after the lockdown. The state may do away with the 30 per cent additional tax but there will only be a partial relief for tipplers as a rejig in the excise duty is also being planned with changes expected to come into effect from September onwards. Industry sources on Wednesday said that circulars could be issued in a few days. “The net impact of both is expected to inflate the pre Covid-19 prices by around 15-20 per cent against the flat 30 per cent rise because of the earlier duty. Overall, MRP is expected to go down slightly,” an industry source said. Bengal was among the top five states in the country along with Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan and Odisha that had drastically raised the duty on liquor to protect its revenues during the lockdown. But it turned out to be counterproductive as sales declined. In Bengal there was an 84 per cent drop in sales by volume in April followed by a 35 per cent drop in May and the trend of year-on-year decline has continued in June and July. Before the Covid-19 hit, the state’s revenue collection per month was around Rs 1,000 crore, which declined by a third as MRP was jacked up by the additional duty. A decrease in MRP will give a much needed boost to sales before the festive season but the excise duty change is also being considered as the government needs money as well. The Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies, which comprises manufacturers such as Allied Blenders & Distillers, Amrut Distilleries, Mohan Meakin and Radico Khaitan, had urged the Bengal government to cut the additional duty to a level of not more than 5-10 per cent in order to prevent a downward spiral in liquor sales. Moreover, the additional duty had jacked up the price of Indian-made foreign liquor in Bengal compared with the neighbouring states of Assam and Jharkhand, raising the fear of smuggling.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-311
20-08-2020||Business||Indiabulls Group to exit realty||Indiabulls Real Estate Ltd (IBREL) and Embassy Group have signed a definitive deal to merge their various housing and commercial projects following which Embassy will take control of the merged entity. The transaction would lead to the exit of the Indiabulls group from the real estate business. Embassy Group already has around a 14 per cent stake in IBREL. After the merger of the assets of these two companies, its stake will increase to 45 per cent. The merger comes just days after a major resuffle at the top deck of Indiabulls Housing Finance with former RBI deputy governor S. S. Mundra being appointed as the non-executive chairman. He replaced Indiabulls group founder Sameer Gehlaut, who has been re-designated as the non-executive, non-independent director of the company. NAM Estates Pvt Ltd (NAM) and Embassy One Commercial Property Developments Pvt Ltd (NAM Opco), subsidiaries of the Embassy group, have entered into a definitive merger agreement with IBREL to amalgamate their ongoing, completed and planned residential and commercial projects with the latter. Consequently, Jitendra Virwani along with the other promoter entities of NAM (the Embassy promoters) will become the new promoters of IBREL upon the completion of the merger and Sameer Gehlaut along with existing IBREL promoter group entities will  initiate the process of reclassification as required, the statement added. The merged entity will have about 30 projects. It will create one of the leading market players among listed companies in the real estate sector in terms of surplus from launched projects, land bank ownership and residential stock. The merged entity will be renamed Embassy Developments Ltd and it will have its headquarters both in Mumbai and Bangalore. Under the terms of the agreement, IBREL’s shares are being valued at Rs 92.5 per share, a 25.7 per cent premium to Tuesday’s closing price. NAM shareholders will get 6.619 shares of IBREL for every 10 shares of NAM, while NAM Opco shareholders will get 5.406 shares of IBREL for every 10 shares held in NAM Opco.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-311
20-08-2020||Business||Skill gap in car parts||The auto components industry is facing a shortage of skilled manpower as migrant workers are yet to join work. Many manufacturers had to reskill new workforce on the shop floor. Meeting productivity levels is becoming a challenge even with the current muted demand, said Deepak Jain, president of the Automotive Components Manufacturers’ Association of India (Acma) in a virtual press conference on Wednesday. “There is enough manpower but they are not the same as in pre-Covid times. Contractual workers are not very skilled. So, two to three months are being spent to reskill.” If there is a V-shaped recovery in the industry, then manpower might become a problem, said Vinnie Mehta, director-general, Acma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-312
20-08-2020||Business||Auditors wash their hands of SsangYong||Auditors for SsangYong Motor Company (SYMC) have refused to give an opinion on its half-yearly performance. During the first quarter of this fiscal, the group incurred an operating loss of 98,634 million won and a net loss of 193,537 million won. Auditors KPMG Samjong Accounting Corp had then said that the group’s current liabilities exceed its current assets by 589.87 billion won and that these conditions indicate that a material uncertainty exists that may cast significant doubt on the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. This comes at a time  Mahindra & Mahindra has decided to bring down its stake in the auto company to less than 50 per cent. The board had agreed to seek shareholders consent by way of a postal ballot. This would be a way to induct potential investors into SYMC or to otherwise meet its funding requirements through other sources. M&M had recently indicated that it is not ruling out the possibility of ceding control over SYMC in full or in part. Mahindra had acquired SsangYong in 2010 but has failed to turn it around. According to M&M’s annual report for 2019-20, as of March 31, 2020, its investments in SYMC stood at Rs 2,450 crore while its ownership interest was at 74.65 per cent. In April this year, the board of M&M had rejected a proposal to inject any fresh equity into the Korean arm. The management and labour union of SYMC had sought a funding of $406 million from M&M over the next three years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-312
20-08-2020||Business||RBL Bank joins cash chase||Mid-sized private lender RBL Bank is the latest to join the capital raising spree among banks as it is set to raise funds through a preferential issue and a likely qualified institutional placement (QIP). The bank informed the stock exchanges on Tuesday that its board will meet on Thursday to approve raising funds “by way of issue of equity shares on a preferential basis”, subject to the approval of its shareholders and other regulatory, and or, statutory approvals. Apart from the preferential issue, reports say that RBL Bank may announce a QIP offering on Thursday that may see the participation of marquee investors. This latest exercise comes after the bank mobilised Rs 2,700 crore  through a combination of preferential issue and QIP process in December last year. The transaction saw participation from investors that included Bajaj Finance, Bajaj Allianz, Eastbridge, Ward Ferry and Falcon Edge. The RBL Bank stock on Wednesday ended with gains of 1.29 per cent, or Rs 2.35, at Rs 184.75 on the BSE on a day the benchmark index settled higher by over 86 points at 38614.79 Since March, a clutch of banks have raised funds through QIP and other modes as they beef up capital in anticipation of a possible rise in bad loans. These include Kotak Mahindra Bank, ICICI Bank, Axis Bank and HDFC Bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-312
20-08-2020||Business||GST borrowing meet||The GST Council is likely to meet on August 27 to discuss the compensation payout to states and the opinion of the attorney-general on the legality of market borrowing to meet revenue shortfall. Sources said the 41st meeting of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council would be a single agenda meeting on states’ compensation to be held via video conferencing. Besides, a full-fledged meeting of the Council would be held on September 19, agenda for which is to be decided in due course, they added. The attorney-general — who is the chief legal officer of the government — has opined that the Centre has no statutory obligation to make up for any shortfall in GST revenues of states from its coffers , sources had said. They had earlier indicated that following the AG’s opinion, states may now have to look at market borrowings to meet the revenue shortfall and the GST Council will take a final call. The Centre had in March sought views from attorney-general K.K. Venugopal on the legality of market borrowing by the GST Council to make up for any shortfall in compensation fund — a corpus created from the levy of additional tax on luxury and sin goods to compensate states for revenue shortfall arising from their taxes being subsumed into the GST. The AG had also opined that the Council has to decide on meeting the shortfall in the GST compensation fund by providing the sufficient amount to be credited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-312
20-08-2020||Business||World Bank outlook dims||World Bank is likely to revise its earlier projection of a 3.2 per cent contraction in the Indian economy because of the spread of the coronavirus and a deterioration in the financial sector and global conditions. In the latest release of its biannual India Development Update, the bank asked the government to maintain its reform momentum to spur private investment and exports and reverse the current slowdown. “Challenges have emerged in recent weeks which are likely to weigh on the prospects in the near term. These risks include the spread of the virus; a further deterioration in the global outlook; and additional strains projected on the financial sector. “Keeping these factors in mind, a steeper contraction may be projected in the revised outlook that will be available in October 2020,” it said. The World Bank had in May projected that the Indian economy will contract 3.2 per cent in 2020-21 (April 2020 to March 2021) and rebound slowly in the next financial year. The bank’s projections are the most conservative estimate of the contraction. The IMF had said in June that the Indian economy would shrink 4.5 per cent but many others expect far steeper declines. Various agencies and economists have given varying figures for India’s GDP contraction for 2020-21 and former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh had said even nominal GDP would contract and if it did, it would be the first time since 1947. The World Bank report expects India’s debt-to-GDP ratio to climb to 89 per cent from 66 per cent. But India is a lot better off than most western economies, including the US and Japan. It has advised India’s policy makers to scale back the priority sector lending guidelines — capped currently at 40 per cent of all advances. Earlier this month, the ambit was widened to cover start-ups. It also calls for relaxation in institutional investment rules. The World Bank said the fiscal deficit of the central government was likely to increase to 6.6 per cent of GDP in 2020-21 and is expected to remain elevated at 5.5 per cent in the following year. Assuming that the states’ deficit is contained within 3.5-4.5 per cent of GDP, the combined deficit could rise to around 11 per cent in the current fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-312
20-08-2020||Business||Adanis to run more airports||The Adanis have won a 50-year lease on three more airports after the Union cabinet on Wednesday approved the proposal to farm out the airports at Jaipur, Guwahati and Thiruvananthapuram through the public-private partnership (PPP). Adani Enterprises had won the rights to six airports, including the three — the others are Lucknow, Ahmedabad and Mangalore — through the PPP model after competitive bidding  in February 2019. In July 2019, the Union cabinet had approved the proposal to lease out the Ahmedabad, Mangalore and Lucknow airports to the Adanis. “The Airports Authority of India (AAI) is not giving these airports permanently to the private operator. After running them for 50 years, the private operator would be handing over the airports back to the AAI,” information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said at a press conference after a cabinet meeting on Wednesday. At present, all the six airports are owned and managed by the government-run AAI. The minister said the AAI will receive Rs 1,070 crore as an upfront amount from the private operator for leasing the airports at Jaipur, Guwahati, Thiruvananthapuram and this fund will be used to develop airports in smaller cities. Seven months after the Cabinet approval, Adani Enterprises on February 14 this year signed the concessionaire agreement with the AAI for the operation, management and development of airports at Ahmedabad, Mangalore and Lucknow. In June, the AAI gave three more months to the Ahmedabad-based company to take over the management of these three airports because of the Covid-19 situation. This means the deadline for the takeover has been pushed to November 12 from August 12. The cabinet has also decided to increase the minimum price sugar mills pay to sugarcane growers by Rs 10 to Rs 285 per quintal for the next marketing year starting October 2020. In a statement, the government said FRP (fair and remunerative price) of Rs 285 per quintal has been fixed for a basic recovery rate of 10 per cent. However, a premium of Rs 2.85 per quintal will be paid by mills for every 0.1 per cent increase above 10 per cent in the recovery, it said. Also, the government has made a provision for reduction in FRP by Rs 2.85 per quintal for every 0.1 percentage point decrease in recovery, in respect of those mills whose recovery is below 10 per cent but above 9.5 per cent. However, for mills having recovery of 9.5 per cent or below, FRP is fixed at Rs 270.75 per quintal. “The determination of FRP will be in the interest of sugarcane growers keeping in view their entitlement to a fair and remunerative price for their produce,” the statement said. The government estimates the country’s total sugar production to be at 28-29 million tonne in the current year ending next month compared with 33.1 million tonnes during 2018-19 due to a sharp fall in cane acreage in Maharashtra and Karnataka. The Centre also approved a proposal to give a one-time relaxation in the working capital limit for discoms as part of  the Rs 90,000cr liquidity infusion scheme. At the press meet, Javadekar said, “There is a slump in power consumption. PFC and REC have been allowed to give loans above the limit...(of) more than 25 per cent working capital limit. This will increase the liquidity of the state discoms.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-312
20-08-2020||Business||DoT contests resolution plan||The DoT has opposed the resolution plan of R-Com and its subsidiary Reliance Telecom (RTL) citing it will not recover its dues from the plan proposed by the lenders . The Mumbai bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), which is hearing the R-Com resolution plan on Wednesday, told the DoT to file an affidavit by Friday . In March this year, the lenders of R-Com had given its green signal to a Rs 23,000 crore resolution plan. While Reliance Jio will get the tower and fiber assets of Reliance Infratel Ltd for Rs 4,700 crore, UV Asset Reconstruction Co Ltd (UVARCL) will get the spectrum for Rs 14,000 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-312
20-08-2020||Business||SC not to rule on IBC payout||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said it won’t go into the specific sharing of the dues of the financial creditors and operational creditors in a company under bankruptcy. It was more concerned with a bankrupt company’s claims on its ability to pay dues when under insolvency. The court gave the opinion in the midst of an argument between the committee of creditors of Reliance Communications (R-Com) and the department of telecom (DoT) over who had the first right over the spectrum of the Anil Ambani-company, which is at present undergoing insolvency. R-Com owes a staggering Rs 25,000 crore in spectrum fees linked to adjusted gross revenues (AGR). “We won’t go into apportionment of resolution plan funds between creditors,” the bench observed, meaning it was not concerned about the sharing of dues but rather the bona-fides of the insolvency claims of telecom players such as R-Com and Aircel. The court made the remarks after senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for the committee of creditors, said the licence agreement clearly mandated that spectrum was a fit case of security for banks. The SBI-led committee of creditors (CoC) of R-Com on Wednesday told the Supreme Court that R-Com would go into liquidation if UVARC decided to withdraw from the acquisition proceedings if its right to the sale of spectrum was denied. The submission was made by Salve, appearing for CoC, before a three-judge bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra which is examining whether bankrupt operators such as R-Com and Aircel can seek insolvency proceedings to apparently avoid compliance with the apex court’s October 2019 judgment, which mandated the various operators to refund a staggering Rs 1.47 lakh crore as dues in the form of AGR to the government. UVARC had successfully bid for R-Com in the insolvency proceedings before the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT). The The UVARC plan, approved by the CoC in March, involves the right to use spectrum under the control of R-Com. “R-Com will go into liquidation if spectrum sale is not permitted… Even UVARC may back out of its bid if the DoT decides against spectrum sale citing IBC (insolvency and bankruptcy code),” Salve told the bench also comprising Justices Abdul Nazeer and  M.R.Shah. He was referring to the DoT’s argument that spectrum was a national asset and no telecom player can sell it to another party. The CoC, on the other hand, has argued that the financial creditors should be given the priority as mandated by the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 and not operational creditors such as the DoT, employees and other service providers of the company under insolvency law. The court will take up the hearing on Thursday, with senior advocate Ranjit Kumar appearing for the CoC of Aircel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-312
