21-08-2020||Business||Airlines seek government support||The civil aviation ministry will pitch for some relief to the battered aviation sector following several rounds of meetings with the airline operators. Officials of the aviation  ministry plan to meet their finance counterparts to take up the proposal of the airlines, which includes loan waivers, soft loans and deferment of payment to airports for six months. Sources said private airline operators such as SpiceJet, IndiGo, Air Asia, GoAir and Vistara have met the ministry officials several times since the Rs 20-lakh-crore stimulus package was announced by the government. The package did not have any specific relief for the industry and the operators have been calling for some kind of sector-specific measures similar to the ones taken in other countries. The ministry officials hope some hand-holding measures could be worked out for the sector. They expect air bubble pacts to be signed with more countries and hope a reduction in the number of Covid-19 cases would spur air travel within the country. Analysts, however, feel the finance ministry does not have much elbow room to offer relief. Any support is likely to be in the form of liquidity measures either through fiscal or monetary policies. “The industry’s financial challenges will become increasingly apparent from September/October. Promoters, bankers, private equity and the government are all unwilling to provide support given the demand risk and uncertainty,” CAPA India said. This could have an unprecedented impact on air connectivity, and on economic recovery. “The two critical elements for the industry to survive and navigate this crisis are demand (traffic risk) and capital,” it said. Rating agency Icra said in a report that the domestic aviation industry had operated at a passenger load factor of 55 per cent in July against 86.3 per cent in the same month last year. “Icra maintains that the second half of 2020-21 will witness some recovery with the fourth quarter witnessing a contraction year-on-year of just 3-14 per cent in domestic passenger traffic with improved passenger load factor... Domestic passenger traffic is likely to contract 41-46 per cent in the whole of 2020-21,” it said. The International Air Transport Association (IATA) has said 2020 is the worst year in aviation, and airlines in the Asia-Pacific region alone are expected to report losses of $29 billion. Indian carriers are estimated to lose revenues of $11.61 billion in 2020 compared with 2019, and this is expected to impact 3.06 million jobs. “On an average, every day of this year will add $230 million to industry losses. In total that’s a loss of $84.3 billion,” Alexandre de Juniac, IATA director-general and CEO, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-311
21-08-2020||Business||Supreme Court fears loss of telco dues||The Supreme Court on Thursday said it was “extremely worried” that the AGR (adjusted gross revenue) dues of the telecom players under bankruptcy would be “wiped out” if they were allowed to proceed with their insolvency claims before the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). The court had earlier in October 2019 directed the operators to cough up their dues — aggregating Rs 1.47 lakh crore — but operators such as Reliance Communications (R-Com) and Aircel had referred to their insolvency proceedings at the NCLT for their inability to pay the dues, which the apex court views as an attempt not to comply with its ruling. “We are extremely worried that all AGR dues will be wiped out in the IBC process… After the spectrum sale, the new user will deny pending demands against the said spectrum,” Justice Arun Mishra, who heads the three-judge bench, said. The bench, which includes Justices Abdul Nazeer and M.R.Shah, said, “Spectrum trading is different from spectrum sale under IBC (Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code).  Nobody can use spectrum without paying past dues.” Justice Mishra asked senior advocate Ranjit Kumar appearing for the Committee of Creditors (CoC) of Aircel whether “liabilities be wound up under the guise of selling spectrum under IBC”. However, Kumar defended the insolvency proceedings. He told the court that the insolvency laws in India were present from the 1920s. The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code is the latest amongst the evolving company laws, Kumar told the court. He argued that spectrum is a raw material for the telecom service provider and was a valid security for banks. According to Kumar, the various agreements signed earlier by the operators with banks and the government recognised spectrum as security before banks. Such payments due to the financial creditors should have a preference over operational creditors in the proceedings under IBC. “Banks’ dues are similar to AGR dues, IBC doesn't allow AGR payment before paying banks. If all proceeds are used to satisfy AGR dues, banks won’t get anything, will lose public money. If government allowed spectrum as security, it can’t backtrack now. Even the ministry of corporate affairs wanted spectrum sale under IBC,” Kumar argued. He argued that banks, government need to coexist. “Let's not forget the strain on the economy. Government uses proceeds for public, banks use it for economic purposes.” The senior advocate argued that Section 238 of IBC prevails over any other law such as the Trai or Telegraph acts. The senior advocate appearing for Bharti Airtel in his brief submission told the court that the company had paid all dues related to spectrum trading including the  Rs 18,004 crore of AGR dues. The arguments would continue on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-311
21-08-2020||Business||Telecom operations face greater licensing||The telecom regulator has floated a discussion paper on the unbundling of different aspects of telecom operations such as infrastructure, network, services and applications through differential licensing. The consultation paper proposes a system of unbundling wherein there will be an independent network service provider/operator, which will establish the network and sell the services on a wholesale basis to the service delivery operator to retail. The consultation paper, which asks for opinions of stakeholders on the issue, explains that unbundling of different layers would offer opportunities to share telecom resources and lead to optimum utilisation. “This will further help in catalysing investment and innovation, cost-cutting, and effective utilisation of infrastructure,” Trai has said in the paper. The consultation paper comes after the telecom department in May 2019 sought the regulator’s recommendation on the issue of unbundling of different layers. Trai has set a deadline of September 17 for written comments and October 1 for counter comments on the issue. “What incentives (lower licence fee, lower spectrum usage charges) could be provided to licensees in the new unbundled licensing regime to encourage the investment,” Trai has asked. It has sought industry feedback on what should be the scope for network layer licence and service category licences in case the two elements are separated. The regulator seeks to explore if a network services layer licensee should be permitted to take the service delivery category licence and the restrictions and safeguards that would be imposed to protect the competition and innovation in the service delivery segment. “Out of various responsibilities and obligations enumerated in the unified licence, what should be the respective responsibilities and obligations of network layer licensees and service delivery category licensees,” said the consultation paper. Trai had earlier come out with a pre-consultation paper on the issue where it sought inputs from stakeholders on the broad framework for unbundling of licence. Other issues up for debate include whether certain obligations should be imposed on network layer licensees to provide the network resources in a time-bound, transparent and non-discriminatory manner, as also mechanisms to regulate the access to network services by the service delivery category licensees. "Whether the existing Unified Licensees should be mandated to migrate to the unbundled licensing regime, or the new regime should be introduced, while keeping the existing regime continued for existing licensees till the validity of their licence, with an option of migration," TRAI asked. Another question is on whether service delivery category licensees should be permitted to parent with multiple network service layer licensees. The telecom department in May 2019, had informed that the National Digital Communications Policy (NDCP) under its ''Propel India'' mission, envisages one of the strategies as ''reforming the licensing and regulatory regime to catalyse investments and innovation and promote ease of doing business''. "Enabling unbundling of different layers (example, infrastructure, network, services, and application layer) through differential licensing is one of the action plans for fulfilling the aforementioned strategy," the TRAI release said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-311
21-08-2020||Business||Liquor firms asked to give cost breakup||The Bengal government has proposed a change in the sourcing policy of liquor asking companies to disclose information relating to a buildup of costs that will determine ex-distillery price. The change comes as part of a 22-slab consolidated excise duty structure discussed with the industry on Wednesday, which is likely to come into effect from next month. The first slab for Indian-made foreign liquor and overseas liquor bottled in India is up to Rs 499 and the last slab is Rs 15,001 and above. In the changed sourcing policy, when liquor firms have to re-register their brand and get a no objection certificate from the State Beverages Corporation. In order to obtain that, certain disclosures such as a break-up of costs of materials that together determine the ex-distillery price (EDP) of liquor has to be submitted besides documents such as brand ownership certificate, trade mark registration and FSSAI licence. The government has also sought a comparison of EDP with other states. The industry has welcomed the decision of the government to withdraw the Covid-19 related additional tax of 30 per cent. But the move to introduce slabs, comparing EDP with other states and confidentiality of cost data are key concerns. “We welcome the move to simplify the tax structure by linking it with EDP though we think pricing slabs are far too many and may increase compliance burden. The decision to link EDP with that in other states is misplaced as it does not factor in local costs and tax structure in those states,” said Vinod Giri, director-general of the Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies. “We are also concerned whether the government has put in sufficient measures to protect confidentiality of the cost data that it is seeking from the companies. The privileged information should not fall in competitive hands,” he said. The government has urged the industry to liquidate the current stock over the next two weeks so that the new duty can come into effect. As part of the proposed changes, the margins for the wholeseller (the state beverage corporation) and the retailers are also expected to increase.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-311
21-08-2020||Business||RBI scouts for escape hatch to kickstart economy||The Reserve Bank of India’s policymakers are grappling with a stark dilemma. If they do not cut interest rates, it may be hard to kickstart a moribund economy. But inflation is ruling at 6.93 per cent and will run away unchecked unless the RBI raises rates — which isn’t an easy option to exercise in the current economic situation and will spark a caterwaul of protests if it does so. The policy mandate requires the wise men on Mint Street to hold inflation at a mid-point of 4 per cent, with a tolerance limit of 2 per cent on either side. If inflation stubbornly stays above 6 per cent for three consecutive quarters, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das must write to the Centre and explain why the central bank failed to do its job. The pandemic is a great excuse — but the RBI is understandably reluctant to admit failure. Retail inflation has stayed above 6 per cent for two quarters. In July, it surged to 6.93 per cent, which means it has two more months before it hands in a botched report card. It is this dilemma that seeped into the discussions of the monetary policy committee meeting held between August 4 and 6. The minutes of the meeting, which were released on Thursday, show that the policymakers were casting about for an escape hatch to avoid having to make that dismal report of failure. The MPC noted that the imputed inflation numbers for April and May mark a “break in the CPI series”. RBI deputy governor Michael Patra warned that if inflation persists above the upper tolerance band for one more quarter, the monetary policy will be constrained by the mandate to undertake remedial action — which means raise rates. Ravindra Dholakia said imputation of the inflation numbers may provide misleading signals and it is prudent to ignore them and wait for more reliable estimates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-311
21-08-2020||Business||Tatas upbeat on Port Talbot||Tata Steel chairman Natarajan Chandrasekaran said the company was in “intense discussion” with the Boris Johnson government to find a sustainable and structural solution to the UK steel business of the company. Facing a barrage of probing questions from the shareholders at the company’s 113th annual general meeting where they expressed doubts over the future of the European business, the chairman said the “hope and aim is to find a solution by the end of the fiscal year”. Chandra said the company had a target to bring down debt to Rs 75,000 crore and have a debt-to-EBIDTA ratio of “3 or less” for a size and magnitude of the company’s operation “as soon as possible”, as shareholders questioned the elevated debt level of Tata Steel, which is over Rs 1 lakh crore now. “It can be a matter of months before we can have a decision but if we have a successful outcome, then it is good. We are also thinking of alternative options. But our interest and focus is to see that we find a solution that is lasting,” Chandrasekaran informed the shareholders. The statement comes amidst intense speculation over the future of the UK business as British media reported that the UK government has declined the request of Tata Steel to provide financial assistance. At least one potential suitor, Liberty House of Sanjeev Gupta, has said it was open to acquiring the Tatas’ UK steel business — including the main production site Port Talbot — if they sell it. The Tatas’ operations in Europe are spread between the UK and the Netherlands, the latter being a more modern and efficient plant with positive contributions. Chandra explained that there was nothing wrong with the European business operationally. “In Europe, the cost structure is such that we need a good spread, at least in excess of 260 euros (per tonne), which we have not been able to achieve. The last time we touched it was in 2018-19. But in 2019-20, it was around 230 euros per tonne. Now it is further lower to 200 euros per tonne. So, the steel price has to operate at a particular level to support that cost structure. This is where the losses are happening,” Chandra said. The shareholders of Tata Steel India, the listed and holding company, are upset as the profitable domestic operation is continuing to fund the loss making European business and pulling down the stock price.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-311
