22-08-2020||Business||Vodafone faces showcause||Trai is considering issuing a showcause notice to Vodafone Idea over the priority plan issue as the telecom regulator is not satisfied with the response given by the company on the matter so far, according to a source. Airtel — which has stopped onboarding new customers on its platinum offering after an earlier Trai directive — may not be served a showcause notice. A regulatory source said that Vodafone Idea has not been able to satisfactorily respond to many of the issues raised by Trai, including two major concerns on how the company will ensure priority services and speeds to select customers who opt for the premium offering, and how the priority plan will not adversely impact services and experience of non-premium users. The source said the company has not been able to offer clear answers to the issues raised by the regulator.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-310
22-08-2020||Business||24 lakh taxpayers get refunds||The income tax department has provided refunds worth Rs 80,000 crore to over 24 lakh taxpayers so far this financial year. This includes personal income tax refunds of Rs 28,180 crore issued to over 23.05 lakh taxpayers and corporate tax refunds of Rs 60,472 crore to over 1.58 lakh taxpayers during this period. “CBDT has, so far, issued refunds of over Rs 88,652 crore to more than 24.64 lakh taxpayers from April 1, 2020 onwards,” the income tax department said. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) is the apex decision-making body in direct tax matters and administers personal income tax and corporate tax. The finance ministry had earlier said that keeping in mind the situation arising out of the spread of Covid-19 and the related lockdown, emphasis was laid on releasing all refunds at the earliest possible time. All refund related issues are being taken up as a priority and was likely to be completed by August 31, 2020. The income tax department has asked taxpayers to provide immediate response to emails of the I-T department in order to facilitate faster processing of refunds. Since only about 0.5 per cent of the returns is selected for scrutiny, refunds are issued expeditiously at the time of processing itself for the bulk of the taxpayers. Refunds are now directly credited to bank accounts of taxpayers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-310
22-08-2020||Business||TCS wins respite in US case||Tata Consultancy Services on Friday said a US Court of Appeals has held that the punitive damages award of $280 million (around Rs 2,098 crore) on the Indian IT major in an intellectual property rights case with Epic Systems was “constitutionally excessive”. “In the Epic Systems Corporation matter, the US Court of Appeals, 7th Circuit, Chicago, returned a verdict on the appeal filed by TCS, reducing the damages award. “The court held that the punitive damages award of $280 million is constitutionally excessive and directed the Trial Court to reassess the punitive damages,” Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) said in a regulatory filing. The court has, however, upheld the compensatory damages award of $140 million (approx Rs 1,049 crore), the filing added. “TCS is exploring the options available to it as it believes that there is no evidence of misuse of Epic information by TCS. TCS will vigorously defend its position before the relevant court,” the filing noted. The matter relates to a US grand jury order that slapped two Tata group companies — TCS and Tata America International Corp — with a $940 million fine in a trade secret lawsuit filed against them by Epic in April 2016. On April 16, 2016, TCS made a disclosure to the stock exchanges regarding a US court verdict related to an intellectual property rights case with Epic Systems. On October 1, 2017, TCS said the court significantly reduced the compensatory and punitive damages of $940 million to $420 million. In May this year, Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) had warned TCS to be careful in dealing with disclosure of material information to investors after the watchdog found that the IT major did not prominently display the extent of damages related to a case in the US. Shares of TCS were trading 0.20 per cent lower at Rs 2,247.60 apiece on BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-310
22-08-2020||Business||SC to look into spectrum pacts||The Supreme Court on Friday directed the department of telecom (DoT) to place before it details of the spectrum sharing agreements between different telecom operators to determine their liabilities towards the payment of Rs 1.47 lakh crore in AGR (adjusted gross revenue) dues to the government. The top court asked the DoT secretary to file a specific affidavit apprising it about who was using the spectrum from the date of grant of licence and from which date the respective sharing of spectrum took place. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, S. Abdul Nazeer and M. R. Shah posted the matter for further hearing on August 24. The bench also asked the DoT about the amount paid by Reliance Jio for using 23 per cent of Reliance Communication (R-Com’s) spectrum. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Jio, said that the company has not received any notice from the government on any additional claims by the DoT. He said the DoT had earlier told NCLT that spectrum can’t be traded. “If spectrum is not traded, it goes back to the government, it doesn’t get any dues,” Salve told the court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-310
22-08-2020||Business||Banks require Rs 2 lakh crore||Public sector banks need to raise as much as Rs 2.1 lakh crore in external capital over the next two years to tackle the funds shortage that will only be exacerbated by the coronavirus pandemic, rating agency Moody’s said. According to Moody’s, the sharp slowdown in India’ economic growth, made worse by the virus outbreak, will hurt the asset quality of public sector banks (PSBs) and drive up credit costs. “We expect to see PSBs’ already weak capital buffers to be depleted, with Rs 1.9-2.1 lakh crore ($25 billion-$28 billion) in external capital needed over the next two years to restore loss-absorbing buffers,” Moody’s vice-president and senior credit officer Alka Anbarasu said. PSBs dominate India’s banking system, meaning any failure could jeopardise financial stability, Anbarasu added. “As such, we expect government support will remain forthcoming,” she said. In a report titled “Coronavirus fallout will leave banks with capital shortages again”, Moody’s said the asset quality will deteriorate, led by retail and small business loans. Most of the capital required by the public lenders is likely to come from the government. While a large number of private sector banks have already undertaken capital raising in an effort to tackle the headwinds that may emerge in the medium-term, their public sector counterparts are yet to do so. Private sector lenders ICICI Bank, Yes Bank, Kotak Mahindra Bank, Axis Bank and IDFC First Bank have raised capital over the last few months in various means. According to Moody’s, the Indian economy will contract sharply in financial year ending March 2021 (fiscal 2020) before returning to growth, though modestly, in fiscal 2021. The country’s largest lender SBI on Friday said its board has approved a proposal to raise Rs 8,931 crore by issuing Basel III compliant bonds to investors. The committee of directors for capital raising at its meeting held on Friday accorded its approval to allot 89,310 Basel III compliant non-convertible, taxable, redeemable, subordinated, unsecured, fully paid-up debt instruments aggregating to Rs 8,931 crore to bond subscribers on August 21, 2020, SBI said in a regulatory filing. The bonds in the nature of debentures qualifying as tier 2 capital of the bank have face value of Rs 10 lakh, bearing a coupon of 6.80 per cent payable annually for a tenor of 15 years. Additional reporting by PTI in New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-310
22-08-2020||Business||Honda Motorcycle and Scooter India focuses on exports||Honda Motorcycle and Scooter India (HMSI) will focus on exports with its new range of BS-VI vehicles which are equivalent to the Euro-V emission norms of advanced markets. At present, the company exports only three per cent of its total volume to a few countries such as Sri Lanka and Nepal. Talking to reporters, Atsushi Ogata, the new managing director, president and CEO of HMSI, said: “I have watched India transition from BS-IV to BS-VI, while working in Thailand. I have seen how HMSI has started to dispatch its BS-VI models. We now have the quality and capacity to deliver anywhere in the world. We can export completely built and completely knocked-down models. The percentage of exports will definitely see a substantial increase within three years.” Ogata takes charge of HMSI in the midst of the pandemic. The new CEO remains optimistic about the two-wheeler market’s revival. “We are witnessing a recovery in the high-speed market. The demand for motorcycles and scooters is beyond expectation. Customers are trying to get personal mobility to avoid mass transit. We see demand going back to normal sooner than later,” said the new CEO. On his thoughts about the Indian market viz-a-viz the other markets that he has worked in, the president said: “India is a big market in terms of size and volume. It gives Honda an opportunity to grow. In markets such as Indonesia and Vietnam, Honda has a huge market share of 70-80 per cent. There are only Japanese makers there, no local or Chinese makers. In China, the major makers are from Japan who has to compete with copycat makers. In India, Honda has a marketshare of less than 30 per cent.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-310
22-08-2020||Business||Crude import falls 36%||India’s crude oil imports fell in July to their lowest since March 2010 as fuel demand slowed. Crude oil imports last month slumped about 36.4 per cent from a year earlier to 12.34 million tonnes, or 2.92 million barrels per day, data from the Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell (PPAC) of the ministry of petroleum & natural gas showed. The lower import marked a fourth straight monthly decline. Fuel demand in the world’s third-biggest oil importer and consumer also fell, posting a fifth consecutive year-on-year drop. Analysts said state-run refiners, which control around 65 per cent of the refining capacity, have been forced to run at around 75 per cent of their capacity during the nationwide lockdown. Monsoon in several parts of the country also eroded some demand. The consumption of petroleum products in July 2020 fell 11.7 per cent compared with July 2019 as volumes dropped to 15.7 mt in July 2020 from 17.7 mt in July 2019. Consumption between April and July 2020 contracted 22.5 per cent compared with the same period a year ago. Data showed that crude oil imports decreased 23.6 per cent during April-July 2020 compared with the corresponding previous period. “Lower economic growth means less demand for imports, which is already visible in our trade numbers,” analysts said. Refined product imports surged 46.4 per cent to 4.07 million tonnes year-on-year, mainly due to a sharp jump in fuel oil imports.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-310
22-08-2020||Business||G-Sec yields harden||Yields on the benchmark 10-year bond on Friday breached the 6 per cent mark as elevated retail inflation led to concerns that the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) will continue with its pause on interest rates. The fall in government security prices (yields are inversely related to prices) comes at a time the corporate bond segment is showing some life with players such as Patanjali Ayurved tapping the market. While bond prices had come under pressure after the outbreak of the coronavirus, aggressive interest rate reduction by the RBI and  enough liquidity from targeted long term repo operations (TLTRO) led to the softening of yields despite a Rs 12 lakh crore borrowing programme by the government. However, high retail inflation amid forecasts that it would stay elevated have led to yields on government bonds rising from around 5.8 per cent last month. The RBI has not announced an open market operation (secondary purchases of bonds), which jacked up yields. Yields on the benchmark 10-year bond on Friday ended at 6.08 per cent. Incidentally, it came on a day RBI governor Shaktikanta Das told a television channel that room still exists for an interest rate cut. He reiterated that policy space remains and that the central bank is only keeping its arsenal dry to use it judiciously in the future. Earlier this month, Das had said that after Operation Twist and TLTRO improved the liquidity situation, spreads of three-year AAA-rated corporate bonds over similar tenor government securities have declined from 276 basis points on March 26, 2020 to 50 basis points on July 31, 2020. He added that spreads on AA+ rated bonds softened from 307 basis points to 104 basis points, while spreads on AA bonds narrowed from 344 basis points to 142 basis points over the same period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-310
22-08-2020||Business||NCLT order to recover Rs 1200cr from Anil||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on Friday set the stage for insolvency proceedings against Reliance Communications chairman Anil Ambani after it appointed a resolution professional to recover Rs 1,200 crore from him under the personal guarantee clause of the bankruptcy law. Anil Ambani had given a personal guarantee to the loans given by State Bank of India (SBI) to Reliance Communications (R-Com) and Reliance Infratel (RITL) in August 2016. Both R-Com and RITL had defaulted in the payments in January 2017 and the accounts were declared as non-performing accounts. SBI invoked the personal guarantee and issued an invocation notice on Ambani. The NCLT order given on Thursday said that despite various correspondences between the bank and the personal guarantor no repayment was made on behalf of the latter. “The applicant (SBI) apprehends that it would not be able to recover the claim amount from the corporate insolvency resolution process (CIRP) or from the borrowers R-Com and RITL,’’ the order said. SBI had issued a demand notice dated February 20, 2020, to Ambani demanding payment. When he did not respond, SBI accordingly filed the petitions under Section 95 of the IBC. According to IBC, the tribunal shall direct the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (IBBI) within seven days of filing of such application to nominate the name of the RP. The IBBI will have to nominate a resolution professional (RP) within 10 days of receiving such a direction. The order disclosed that Jitender Kothari has been appointed as the RP. A spokesperson for Ambani said the industrialist was reviewing the order and was taking advice on filing an appropriate appeal before the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal against the appointment of the RP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-310
22-08-2020||Business||Banks can do debt recast right away ||Banks can hit the ground running on the debt resolution of accounts mauled by the Covid-19 pandemic without waiting either for the end of the existing loan moratorium on August 31 or for the K.V. Kamath panel to give its recommendations by the deadline of September 6, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said on Friday. Bank boards will decide by the end of this month on their eligibility criteria to decide which borrowers — retail and business —  will qualify for resolution. Banks can pick and choose these borrowers based on their internal assessments and the broad criteria remains: that the account should have been recognised as a standard account on March 1 this year. The RBI had announced the new debt resolution norm earlier this month. The banks can provide a debt resolution tenure of up to two years and decide whether or not to extend a moratorium of three, six or 12 months. The Kamath committee will only deal with a certain class of business borrowers, having fund and non-fund exposure of over Rs 1,500 crore to the banking sector. It will decide on financial parameters only such as the debt service coverage ratio, the acceptable debt-equity ratio, and interest coverage ratio relating to a resolution scheme. The entire process of submitting the report and the issue of the RBI’s notification will be completed in 30 days, which is September 6. Pre-Covid stressed accounts will need to be resolved under the RBI circular issued under June 7, 2019 Das told a TV channel that the six-month loan moratorium that ends this month was only a temporary relief and  the one-time restructuring mechanism which replaces it would help revive several units that are under stress because  of the pandemic. Das said the new mechanism was drafted after lot of thought and the central bank considered both the health of the banks and the difficult conditions faced by individual and business borrowers. He pointed out that if nothing was done, bad loans would spike which will have an adverse impact on financial stability. The RBI governor reiterated the latest resolution framework was only for Covid-19 related stress. “The moratorium was a temporary response to the lockdown.. but we need to find a durable solution where the retail and business loans are resolved,” he said. Das said three new members will join the rate-setting monetary policy committee to replace three external members whose tenures have come to an end. An RBI panel will internally review how inflation-anchored policymaking mandate has worked. It will also review the need to widen the inflation targets using CPI (consumer price index), core CPI and WPI (wholesale price index). At present, it is entirely dependent on CPI combined with a mid-point of 4 per cent with a tolerance level of 2 per cent on either side. Das disclosed that such a review of the target will be done by the government. Under the 45ZA of the RBI Act, the government can reset the mandate every five years. The monetary policy panel arrived at a status quo on rates earlier this month on August 6 after considering numerous factors  such as retail inflation, growth, food inflation, core inflation, wholesale prices and supply chain cost. The Reserve Bank is at the end of its rate cutting cycle as inflation is unlikely to decline materially from the current level, and the onus of economic recovery has now shifted to the government, economists at SBI said on Friday. “Fiscal policy should play a decisive role, if we have to nurture any hopes of a fast-paced recovery,” the economists at SBI said. “We now believe that we are at the end of the rate cut cycle and expectations of large cuts must be anchored as inflation is unlikely to decline materially from current level,” the SBI economists said. They said large procurement by government could further push inflation up by 35-40 basis points.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-311
