23-08-2020||Business||Godrey Phillips India profit down||Cigarette maker Godfrey Phillips India on Saturday reported a 53.56 per cent decline in its consolidated net profit at Rs 55 crore for the first quarter ended June 30, 2020. The company had reported a net profit of Rs 119 crore in the same quarter a year ago. Godfrey Phillips’ total income from operations during the April-June quarter stood at Rs 504 crore, down 41.33 per cent from Rs 858 crore in the same period of the last financial year, the company said in a BSE filing. During the quarter under review, overall expenses stood at Rs 440.85 crore, a decline of 35.55 per cent compared with Rs 681.75 crore in the corresponding period last fiscal. Godfrey Phillips manufactures cigarette brands, including Four Square, Red and White, Cavanders, Tipper and North Pole. It also manufactures and distributes Marlboro under a licence agreement with Philip Morris.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-309
23-08-2020||Business||Oil India suffers second quarterly loss in history||Oil India Ltd, the nation’s second-largest state-run oil and gas producer, has logged its second quarterly loss in history in the June quarter of 2020 after crude oil prices slumped to a level lower than the cost of production. OIL has suffered a net loss of Rs 249 crore in the first quarter of 2020-21 compared with a net profit of Rs 625 crore in the same period of the previous financial year. “This is the second quarterly loss in OIL history. We had a quarterly loss in 2018-19,” OIL director-finance Harish Madhav said on Saturday. The price realised for the oil the company has produced dropped to $30.43 per barrel in the June quarter compared with $66.33 a barrel realised a year back, he said. “Our cost of production is around $32-33 per barrel and a drop in price was the primary reason for the loss in the first quarter,” he said. OIL produced 0.75 million tonnes of crude oil in April-June, down marginally from 0.81 million tonnes a year back. Natural gas output too was marginally lower at 0.68 billion cubic metres (bcm) from 0.71 bcm in the first quarter of 2019-20. He said natural gas price realisation during the reporting quarter reduced to $2.39 per metric million British thermal unit (mmBtu) from $3.23 in the previous quarter. OIL’s cost of production for natural gas is around $2.3 per mmBtu. “Gas price realisation was fine but it was the substantial drop in oil prices that resulted in loss in the first quarter,” he said. Turnover in April-June reduced to Rs 1,874.48 crore from Rs 3,496.10 crore in the same period last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-309
23-08-2020||Business||ICICI Lombard acquires Bharti AXA in all-stock deal||ICICI Lombard General Insurance is acquiring Bharti Enterprises-promoted Bharti AXA General Insurance in an all-stock deal. Shareholders of Bharti AXA will receive two shares of ICICI Lombard for every 115 shares of Bharti AXA held by them on the date the “scheme of arrangement” is approved by the board of both the entities, a statement said. The share-exchange ratio was recommended by independent valuers and accepted by the respective boards of ICICI Lombard and Bharti AXA. Bharti Enterprises at present owns a 51 per cent stake in Bharti AXA General Insurance, while French insurer AXA has 49 per cent. In ICICI Lombard, the ICICI Bank holds a stake of 51.89 per cent. The board of ICICI Lombard General Insurance “at its meeting held on August 21, considered and approved a scheme of arrangement among Bharti AXA General Insurance and the former company and their respective shareholders and creditors”, ICICI Lombard said in a late night filing on Friday. Post demerger, Bharti AXA General Insurance will cease to be a going concern and both Bharti Enterprises and AXA will exit the non-life business. The consolidation is beneficial for and in the interest of the policyholders as the demerger creates a more robust and financially strong insurer that can offer a wider product suite, more access points and comprehensive services to customers after the completion of the scheme, the general insurers said. “The proposed transaction provides a meaningful opportunity for ICICI Lombard to consolidate its leadership position in the non-life insurance sector, becoming the third largest non-life insurer. The combined entity shall have a market share of about 8.7 per cent on a pro-forma basis,” ICICI Lombard said. The board approved the proposed scheme of demerger, subject to all applicable statutory and regulatory approvals, including from the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority, the Competition Commission of India, stock exchanges, Sebi, shareholders and creditors of the companies involved in the scheme and the relevant jurisdictional benches of the National Company Law Tribunal, the company said. “We would also like to reassure Bharti AXA’s policyholders and channel partners of seamless business continuity and maintaining the highest standards of customer service,” ICICI Lombard CEO Bhargav Dasgupta said. Bharti Enterprises has been trying for quite some time to exit the financial services business. In 2011, Bharti Enterprises’ talks with Reliance Industries to sell its 74 per cent stake in Bharti AXA Life Insurance and Bharti AXA General Insurance could not reach the logical conclusion. For the fiscal year ended March 2020, Bharti AXA General Insurance reported a 38 per cent increase in its gross premium collection at Rs 3,157 crore against Rs 2,285 crore in the previous fiscal. Ernst & Young LLP (EY) was the exclusive advisor to ICICI Lombard for this merger. AZB & Partners acted as the legal advisor to ICICI Lombard, while Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas acted as the legal advisor to Bharti. Talwar Thakore & Associates acted as the legal advisor to AXA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-309
23-08-2020||Business||Insurers push guaranteed return plans||Life insurers are vying for a share of the rising investments in fixed deposits by pitching their guaranteed savings products. Despite a decline in the repo rate by 115 basis points since February, and private and PSU banks reducing their term deposit rates by 110 basis points and 70 basis points, respectively, over the past 12 months, the inflow into fixed deposits is going up. Time deposits have grown from Rs 112 lakh crore at the end of June 2019 to Rs 125.3 lakh crore as on July 17, 2020. In the past three-and-a-half months, the inflow has been worth around Rs 5.8 lakh crore, indicating that investors have parked their earnings in fixed deposits despite low interest rates. This trend has stirred the interest of life insurers who are pitching their guaranteed savings products as a long-term alternative to fixed deposits. In addition to an insurance cover, these products have a rate of return of 5-6 per cent and there are income tax benefits on the premium paid and benefits received. “Through guaranteed savings products, life insurers are offering a lock-in opportunity for 20-30 years in this low interest rate scenario. There is no tax incidence and there is benefit of protection, that is life cover with guaranteed savings,” said Kamlesh Rao, MD and CEO of Aditya Birla Sun Life Insurance. “While we are seeing the need for liquidity on the rise, we have also observed that those customers who are willing to invest are looking for products that offer better after-tax guaranteed returns compared with other savings products,” said Bharat Kalsi, CFO of Bajaj Allianz Life. He added that the company has seen a 135 per cent increase in the issuance of guaranteed return policies. A typical guaranteed return policy from a private life insurer with a tenure of around 22 years has a premium paying term of around 10 years. Depending on the policy and the return, a 35-year-old individual investing Rs 10 lakh (Rs 1 lakh per annum for 10 years) can end up with a total benefit of around Rs 24 lakh after 22 years when he will be closer to the retirement age. Being a life cover, these policies also offer death benefit. The dependence on banks as a sales channel is also helping life insurers to analyse the investment pattern of the fixed deposit insurers and streamline sales.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-310
