24-08-2020||Business||Dumping route in trade pacts blocked||The government has come out with norms to enforce the “rules of origin” provisions to allow preferential rate of customs duties on products imported under free trade agreements (FTA). The new norms have been framed with a view to checking inbound shipments of low quality products and dumping of goods by a third country routed through an FTA partner country. The department of revenue has notified the “Customs (Administration of Rules of Origin under Trade Agreements) Rules, 2020” which would “come into force on September 21, 2020”. These rules “shall apply to import of goods into India where the importer makes a claim of preferential rate of duty in terms of a trade agreement”, it said. The “rules of origin” provision prescribes for the minimal processing that should happen in the FTA country so that the final manufactured product may be called originating goods in that country. Under this provision, a country that has inked an FTA with India cannot dump goods from some third country in the Indian market by just putting a label on it. It has to undertake a prescribed value addition in that product to export to India. Rules of origin norms help to contain the dumping of goods. India has inked FTAs with several countries, including Japan, South Korea, Singapore and Asean members. Under such agreements, two trading partners significantly reduce or eliminate import/customs duties on the maximum number of goods traded between them. According to the notification, to claim preferential rate of duty under a trade agreement, the importer or his agent, at the time of filing bill of entry, has to make a declaration in the bill that the imported products qualify as originating goods for preferential rate of duty under that agreement; and produce certificate of origin. The claim of preferential rate of duty may be denied by the proper officer without verification if the certificate of origin is incomplete or has any alteration not authenticated by the issuing authority or the certificate is produced after its validity period has expired, it said. The importer, it said, also has to possess all relevant information related to country of origin criteria, including the regional value content and submit the same to the proper officer on request. It also said that an officer may, during the course of customs clearance or thereafter, request for verification of certificate of origin from verification authority where there is a doubt regarding genuineness or authenticity of the certificate for reasons such as mismatch of signatures or seal when compared with specimens of seals and signatures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-308
24-08-2020||Business||Wine unit sale hurts Diageo||Diageo, the  world’s leading spirits maker,  incurred a loss of £2 million on the sale of its Indian wine business last year, the company’s annual report has said. Diageo-owned liquor firm United Spirits Ltd (USL) had sold its entire equity stake in Four Seasons Wines as well as associated brands to Grover Zampa Vineyards and Quintela Assets for Rs 31.86 crore. “The disposal of the Indian wine business has resulted in an exceptional loss of £2 million,” Diageo said in its Annual Report 2020. Talking about consumption preferences, Diageo said consumers who drink alcohol are increasingly choosing spirits over beer and wine. “This is a long-term trend. In markets where spirits is a less mature category, mainstream spirits brands can offer quality and affordability. In the more mature markets, the premium core and reserve brands offer choice and new experiences,” the company said. In January 2019, United Spirits had entered into an agreement for the sale of all the equity shares held by the company, constituting 100 per cent of the paid-up equity share capital of its wholly owned subsidiary, Four Seasons Wines (FSWL), along with the brands. The total consideration received for this sale was Rs 31.86 crore. USL had said this move towards the disinvestment of Four Seasons Wines was in line with its strategy to continue to monetise its non-core assets, including subsidiaries. At the time of the sale, USL said the Four Seasons Wines business was a niche but a small part of the overall Diageo India portfolio.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-308
24-08-2020||Business||MFIs widen code of conduct||The microfinance industry is looking to expand its own list of dos and don’ts that it will follow in its operations. The Code of Responsible Lending for the microfinance industry could be further widened to improve transparency to the borrowers and lenders. The two self regulatory organisations for the industry — MFIN (Microfinance Institutions Network) and Sa-Dhan — had last year announced the responsible lending code, which specified certain guidelines for the lending institutions. Not more than three lenders can offer credit to the same borrower, the code said. The overall outstanding of the borrower should not be more than Rs 1.25 lakh. Also, there should not be any fresh lending to a borrower without an updated credit bureau report. According to Manoj Nambiar, managing director of Arohan Financial Services and chairperson of the MFIN board, two more measures are under discussion to be added to the code this year. This includes looking at the financial situation of the entire household and not just the individual borrower and keeping a record of the field staff. Nambiar said the code has been signed by 110 entities. It is a key initiative for the sector and the overall adherence levels to the code are set to rise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-308
24-08-2020||Business||Contrarian view on banks||Chief economic adviser Krishnamurthy Subramanian on Sunday said there should be more banks in operation in the country, which will increase competition and ensure faster transmission of policy rates though the proposal appears to be at odds with the consolidation of PSU banks that has the support of the government. Delivering the Bandhan Bank’s fifth anniversary lecture on Sunday, Subramanian said more banks meant greater competition. The concept of competition through more banks is in contrast to the consolidation seen in the banking space with the amalgamation of public sector banks to 12 at present from 27 in 2017. The logic behind consolidation was to expand the size of the anchor banks, increase their capacity to lend and have better ability to raise resources from the market. “India needs more banks. The US has a third of our population but has almost 20 times as many banks. This has an impact on competition in the banking sector, which affects the transmission of rate cuts. This is something that India needs,” Subramanian said. Subramanian stated the numbers on country-wide distribution of banks in the list of the global top 100 banks, while suggesting that the country has to start evaluating the position of its banking sector in a global perspective. “China has 18 banks in the global top 100 list. The US has 12 and these are the two largest economies in the world. India is the fifth-largest economy. If the Indian banking sector was proportional to the size of the economy, India should have been where South Korea is, which is six banks in the global top 100. But India only has one bank and that too ranked 55th,” he said. SBI is the only bank from India which is placed in the list of top 100 global banks. Sweden, which is one-sixth the size of the Indian economy, and Singapore, which is one-eighth the size of the Indian economy, have three banks each in the global top 100. Even countries such as Finland, Norway, Austria, whose economies are a fraction of that of India, have one bank each in the global top 100, he said. Subramaniam also called for the banks to take a cue from its global peers and invest in technology to build models that can do corporate lending while analysing the ability of the borrower to repay the credit. “Banks today internationally are primarily technology companies. They use so much data and analytics to not only determine their ability to repay but also their willingness to repay. There are several models now which even use psychological parameters to infer the ability to repay,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-309
24-08-2020||Business||Duty hike: First list of  items ready||The government plans to finalise import duties on over two dozen items, including textiles, toys, cameras, solar modules, cells and inverters, and place restrictions on certain types of steel items as part of its strategy to protect the domestic industry. “The projects have been carefully selected and the customs duties would help the domestic industry to be competitive. The items chosen are not per se against any particular country, but they are aimed to give protection to the domestic industry from unfair competition,” senior officials said. They said the first list could be announced soon, may be by the end of this month, while the other products are under consideration. Some of the items which are likely to attract duties include textiles, aluminium goods, toys, cameras, laptops, solar modules, cells and inverters. Apart from these, some of the steel items could be placed under import licensing as part of the latest government move to restrict imports from China. “The government took some measures in increasing tariffs two years back and we saw imports from China come down, but shipments from Hong Kong went up. China repeatedly deflects exports from the mainland to other countries. China has a huge footprint in Southeast Asia. They work through their production networks. So it has to be a structured measure over a period of time in a calibrated manner,” Biswajit Dhar, trade economist with the Jawaharlal Nehru University, said. Abhishek Jain, tax partner at EY, said “Tariff spikes on imports should help foster the government’s leitmotif of a self-reliant India. Nonetheless, these hikes would need to be well evaluated, especially in the currently financially pressed times, for products which are now not available in India/are deficient in supply”. The government is finalising the duties after taking inputs from industry and other experts. Industry was asked to send their comments and suggestions on certain number of goods and raw materials from China —  thats include wrist watches, wall clocks, ampoules, glass rods and tubes, hair cream, hair shampoos, face powder, eye and lip makeup preparations, printing ink, paints and varnishes and some tobacco items. The officials said they considered products which witnessed an import surge between 2014-15 and 2018-19, and domestic prices of similar goods made in the country and their capacity. They also considered imports under free trade agreements and whether there were inverted duties. The government is thinking of erecting trade barriers in terms of quality standards and tariff hikes, which are targeted at China, without naming that country, sources said. The government plans to come out with tariff and non-tariff barriers against Chinese goods and has so far identified about 1,500 items including auto parts, compressors for AC and refrigerators to select steel and aluminium products and electrical machinery. For non-tariff measures, the government, has identified 371 products, with total imports of as much as $128 billion in 2018-19, including those from China and other countries. These items include steel, consumer electronics, heavy machinery, telecom goods, chemicals, pharmaceuticals, paper, rubber articles, glass, industrial machinery, some metal articles, furniture, fertiliser, food and textiles. The government has been wary of duty hikes as it has noticed diversion of imports from countries with which India has free trade agreements, especially Asean members such as Vietnam or Thailand. So, the government plans to bring some items under import licensing that may have been routed through the third countries. In the wake of border tensions between the two countries, voices are getting stronger to restrict or boycott Chinese goods in the country. “Our companies import a lot of raw materials that are critical for making the goods that we export… we should avoid knee-jerk reactions,” said Ajay Sahai, director-general of FIEO. “China's exports to India constitute 2.8 per cent of their exports. But India's exports to China is 5.4 per cent of our total exports,” Sahai said, arguing India's larger trade exposure to China needs to be considered before unilateral moves by New Delhi. According to the federation, exports to China grew from $16.5 billion to $16.95 billion in 2019, while imports declined from $73.8 billion to $68.2 billion. Similarly, India's exports to Hong Kong in 2019 stood at $11.5 billion as against imports of $17.3 billion imports.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-309
24-08-2020||Business||Benz used truck drive||Daimler India Commercial Vehicles has entered the used truck market — called the Bharat Benz Exchange platform. The platform facilitates exchange of any used commercial vehicle of any brand with a used Benz make or a new model. Besides, anyone can buy a used Benz truck. The used market for trucks is hugely unorganised, with estimates of three used trucks sold for every new model. German giant Daimler has started the business at a time the medium and heavy commercial vehicles market contracted 74 per cent in the first half of 2020. Daimler Trucks sold 2,439 units in the first quarter of 2020 compared with 5,549 units a year ago. The plan to move into the used vehicle segment was put in place well before the pandemic, the company said. “The pandemic’s effect on the economy may well increase the market for used vehicles, so the launch of BharatBenz Exchange comes at the right time,” said Rajaram Krishnamurthy, vice-president, sales and marketing, Daimler India Commercial Vehicles. The company has increased the volume base of BharatBenz vehicles in the last eight years and is now creating a structured ecosystem for a sustainable used vehicle business. The business was started with the objective of offering a transparent and reliable truck experience to customers. “Resale value is one of the most significant part of commercial vehicle operating economics. We want to provide our customers the best resale value. This is a a very important tool for customer retention as well as getting new customers,” Krishnamurthy said. On how much the business will contribute to overall sales, Krishnamurthy said: “Initially, we will serve our customers by exchanging their vehicles with a no profit / no loss model. However, at the same time, revenue is translated from the sale of new vehicles and service revenue on used vehicles. Our target is to attain 10 per cent of retail via exchange.” “There are a lot of individuals in the market who are simply trying to manage their own fleets. However, we want to create a structured eco-system where our stakeholders also grow with us,” he said. People who want to sell their used CVs often have to find a buyer on their own – a time consuming process with a lot of paperwork and stress on  both parties. Buyers, too, must be concerned about investing in a vehicle that may not live up to its purchase price. “In BharatBenz Exchange we offer customers a transparent exchange process with financing support, a pool of certified vehicles and warranty/AMC options,” Krishnamurthy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-309
24-08-2020||Business||Tatas target permanent fix for Port Talbot||A “lasting solution” to the woes of Tata Steel’s UK business has remained elusive for more than a decade as the parent in India could not sniff out enough resources to make the operation structurally viable after funding the losses and footing a bloated maintenance bill of an ageing plant year after year. The European business — especially the UK operation — has been a pain point for Tata Steel which acquired it in 2007 at the top of the steel commodity cycle by paying top dollars. After spending $12 billion to buy it, the Indian company has invested at least $2.5 billion in the UK, not to mention suffering asset impairment of over $2.6 billion. Despite selling off a large part of the UK business over the last 13 years and restructuring a complex pension programme to reduce its financial burden, Tata Steel has not been able to take up at least three key projects that could have given the operation — now limited to Port Talbot in Wales — a long shot at viability. Tata Group boss N. Chandrasekaran told harried shareholders that the company was in “intense discussions” with British government to find a solution that is “lasting”. “We have been actively engaged in Tata Steel Europe to find a sustainable and structural solution. Particularly in the UK, we are in discussions with the UK government,” Chandra said at the annual general meeting of the company earlier this week. A structural and sustainable solution would require bringing down the cost of operation at Port Talbot steelworks and make it competitive with the rest of the European steel mills. To achieve that, it had to put up a pellet plant, build more coke oven capacity and construct a large power plant  as they together account for a lion’s share of the raw material cost. Tata Steel’s hugely efficient Indian operations at Jamshedpur and Kalinganagar or even the Netherlands site at IJmuiden, have pellet plants which can convert low-cost iron ore fines into pellets, resulting in significant savings. A bigger coke oven plant similarly can lead to lower cost of coking coal for every tonne of steel. Tata Steel’s other sites have an abundance of them. Moreover, the company needs to buy power from the grid and power cost in the UK is twice as high as the rest of the continent. “After loss funding, capital expenditure for sustenance and compliance, there was hardly any business case for Tata Steel to pour more money to build any of these facilities at Port Talbot. Even then they will be nowhere close to the Indian plants, which are newer, has lower employee cost and lower contractor bill for maintenance,” said a source aware of the matter. It is not yet known whether the financial package Tata Steel is seeking from the Boris Johnson government would involve capex for any of these units. Alternatively, the company may junk steel making through the blast furnace route and install electric arc furnace (EAF), which will mostly recycle scrap and, hence, lower the need for iron ore pellet or coking coal. However, the requirement of electricity will go up if it embraces EAF, which would also require less manpower. The workers’ union at Port Talbot has already opposed any move towards scrapping blast furnaces and replacing them with EAF. While the company struggled in the UK, Tata Steel splurged Rs 75,000 crore over the last four years in India. The domestic capacity went up 10 million tonnes as it built a plant in Kalinganagar and undertook an expansion and acquired Bhushan Steel and the steel business of Usha Martin. The Indian operations contributed 90 per cent of the profit, which also ensured a higher quantum of profit. When Tata Steel acquired Corus Group Plc, now known as Tata Steel Europe, the installed capacity was 21 million tonnes (mt) compared with the India business of 5mt. Thirteen years later, deliveries from India now stand at 16mt installed capacity while Europe is down to a shade above 10mt. Given the focus of the present management to grow profitably in India, the future of the UK operation will be contingent on the support of the British government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-309
24-08-2020||Business||The after-tax income 50/30/20 rule||Just as a government budgets its annual expenditure plan, for individuals a budget of expenses along with a financial self-audit can help to keep track of how one’s earnings are spent. Popularised by US Senator Elizabeth Warren in her book All Your Worth -The Ultimate Lifetime Money Plan, the balanced money formula, or the 50/30/20 rule, essentially divides after-tax income into three different buckets — 50 per cent of spending on essentials such as housing, food, transportation, utility bills etc, 30 per cent on wants such as dinners and movies, and 20 per cent on savings that include debt repayment. While it is a goal to follow, there may be circumstances that can call for a change in the proportion. As Warren says in her book, “there are special times in life when you may shift away from the basic pattern. If your income dips — say, your hours are cut or you take a few months off work to care for a sick family member—then nearly all your money would go to must-haves, while you would cut back on wants and savings until things got back to normal. Again, there can be special circumstances that may cause a permanent shift away from the formula”. However, while life may throw up many unpleasant surprises, in the normal course of things, it’s always prudent to plan your expenses in advance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-309
24-08-2020||Business||Self auditing  can be a good way to get a  true picture of your financial worth||The average individual earns, spends and saves. These are the three primary ways in which money is circulated in and out of households on an everyday basis. Some people, mostly under the self-employed category, often keep an informal account of their earnings and expenses on a monthly basis. Meanwhile, salaried employees generally don’t partake of this exercise and only circle back to take a good look at their finances when the taxpaying time comes knocking along. Failing to take a closer look at your finances could throw some unpleasant financial surprises your way. To get a better sense of your financial worth, it’s essential to perform a financial audit on your own self. Learning to audit your finances each year is an essential life skill. Let’s look at why this exercise is vital. Over the course of your life, you’ll have many short-term and long-term life goals. For instance, your short-term life goals could include saving up for a down payment on a car or having minor home improvements done. Your long-term goals could include saving for your child’s higher education or for your retirement. Auditing your finances annually can help you understand how far along you are on the path to achieving those goals and how much you have left to go. Preparing a budget and verifying how you’ve adhered to it are important aspects of self-audit. In most cases, if you’re a disciplined spender, you’ll find it easy to keep your outlays in check. However, occasionally, you could cross the line and spend more than you planned to. This is particularly true if you don’t track your spending habits. With a self-audit plan in place, you can check extra spending and curb these outlays in time before the expenses cost you your savings or investments and get in the way of you achieving your life goals. In March 2020, Indian household debt stood at Rs 43.5 trillion, according to data from RBI, reaching an all-time high over the past decade. While not all debt is financially damaging, it's vital to ensure that you don’t fall into a debt trap, where you become unable to repay your borrowings. Self-auditing your financial situation periodically can help you here as it ensures that you’re constantly aware of how much debt remains to be repaid. Even if you’re a cautious spender without any debt gnawing at your earnings, you can still benefit from performing financial audits on yourself. For instance, this exercise can help you take stock of how you are investing your savings. It also gives you some reassurance that your financial situation appears healthy, thereby improving your peace of mind. With the knowledge that you are in a position to competently tackle essential and emergency expenses in the future and achieve your life goals without any trouble, you can take solace in your financial well-being. The primary aim of self-audit is to help improve your self worth over time. This is why it’s important that you don’t stop with merely identifying weak links in your financial situation. You need to actively make efforts to close these gaps by improving your financial literacy, adopting the right financial strategies and securing your current as well as your future income  to the maximum extent possible. The writer is chief distribution officer-institutional, Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-309
24-08-2020||Business||Reliance Industries boost  for online pharmacy||The acquisition of Netmeds could see Reliance Industries adopting the strategy it is pursuing in JioMart where it is bringing in local grocers under a single online platform. Reliance had on August 18 announced the acquisition of a majority stake in Vitalic Health Pvt Ltd and its subsidiaries for Rs 620 crore in an all-cash deal. The investment represented around 60 per cent holding in the equity share capital of Vitalic and 100 per cent direct equity ownership of Vitalic’s subsidiaries that include Tresara Health Pvt Ltd, Netmeds Market Place Ltd and Dadha Pharma Distribution Pvt Ltd. While Vitalic and its arms are in pharma distribution, sales and business support services, its subsidiary runs the online pharmacy platform — Netmeds — which enables people to connect with pharmacists and step up delivery of medicines and health products. The acquisition done by Reliance Retail is expected to enhance its ability to provide good quality and affordable health care products and services apart from strengthening its digital commerce proposition to include the most daily essential needs of consumers, analysts said. Reliance Retail’s entry will lock it in direct competition with Jeff Bezos-led Amazon and five others which are in the e-pharmacy business. Amazon Pharmacy was recently launched in Bangalore, with plans to scale it up to other cities in the future. It will enable customers to order prescription-based medication, in addition to over-the-counter medicines, basic health devices and Ayurveda medication from certified  sellers. However, the top body of chemists and druggists — the All India Organisation of Chemists and Druggists (AICOD) — has written to Bezos saying that e-pharmacies are “illegal” and not allowed under the country’s laws. While Reliance has not announced its plans, analysts said it may follow the same approach as in online grocery by bringing in standalone chemists under its platform in the coming months. Thus, medicines could also be one of the product category apart from electronics, apparel and footwear in JioMart. “In the medium-term, it is possible that RIL may go for the aggregator model for the pharmacy stores  (similar to kirana format in grocery) which could further expand the reach for RIL,” analysts at Credit Suisse said in a note.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-309
