25-08-2020||Business||Kalyan Jewellers set for IPO||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-307
25-08-2020||Business||Finance ministry lists GST benefits||The finance ministry on Monday said the GST regime has reduced the rate at which people have to pay tax, helped increase compliance and doubled the taxpayer base to 1.24 crore. In a series of tweets on Monday, also the first death anniversary of former finance minister Arun Jaitley, the ministry said before the goods and services tax (GST) was introduced, the combination of value-added tax, excise, sales tax and their cascading effect resulted in a high standard tax rate of up to 31 per cent. “It is now widely acknowledged that GST is both consumer and taxpayer-friendly. While the high tax rates of the pre-GST era acted as a disincentive to paying tax, the lower rates under GST helped to increase tax compliance,” the ministry said. The number of assessees covered by the GST at the time of its inception was about 65 lakh. Now the assessee base exceeds 1.24 crore. GST, which subsumed 17 local levies and 13 cesses, was rolled out on July 1, 2017. Jaitley held the finance portfolio in the first term of the Modi government since 2014 and was the finance minister when GST came into force.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-307
25-08-2020||Business||Kia to pause new products after SUV Sonet ||Kia India has decided to put on hold new products after the launch of its compact SUV Sonet next month. The company had earlier announced that it would launch one product every six months. In an interaction with The Telegraph, Kia Motors India executive director Tae-Jin Park said: “There will be no more new product offerings this fiscal. We will wait and watch how the situation develops post-Covid.” The company entered the Indian market with its premium SUV Seltos in August last year. It followed up the Seltos with a luxury MPV Carnival at the Auto Expo on February 5 this year and now it is entering the compact SUV segment with the Sonet in September. Expecting the Sonet to give it high numbers, the company is now on a wait-and-watch mode. “We want to achieve full capacity utilisation of our plant at Anantapur, Andhra Pradesh, as our long-term goal,” said Manohar Bhat, vice-president, marketing and sales, Kia Motors India. It has an annual capacity of 300,000 units. The company operated in one shift after the lockdown was lifted and followed it up with two shifts within a month. “With each shift, we can produce 100,000 vehicles per annum. If the third shift is fully operational, we will be at 100  per cent utilisation,” said Bhat. The company hopes to have its third shift operational once the Sonet is launched. At present, it has got over 9,000 bookings for the Sonet. The South Korean giant has sold 1,02,609 units cumulatively till July this year. It sold 98,979 units of the Seltos and 3,630 units of the MPV Carnival. The company is looking at a “good growth” this year since it entered the Indian market in September last year. “We will definitely post a good growth. But right now we cannot put a figure to it,” said Bhat. Kia is also planning to export 50,000 units of Sonet annually. “We will be exporting to countries like Indonesia, South Africa and other markets,” said Park. It exports Seltos to 40 countries including Africa and South America. Total cumulative export of Seltos stood at 29261 units till the end of July 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-307
25-08-2020||Business||India's exports  to China jump 78%||China and other South-East Asian economies have become the main export destination for Indian goods with shipments to Beijing expanding 78 per cent year-on-year in June. Trade data showed that shipments to traditional export markets such as the US, the UK and Brazil declined as restrictions because of Covid-19 and the attempt to contain the pandemic affected trade. “India’s exports growth in a pandemic-dominated world appears to be inversely related to the rise in Covid-19 cases in its export destinations,” rating agency Crisil said, adding that this explains the reasons for growth in exports to countries such as China, Malaysia, Singapore, Vietnam, South Korea and Japan and contraction in exports to the UAE, the UK, Germany, the US, and Brazil. India’s exports to China grew 78 per cent in June, while that to Malaysia rose 76 per cent, Vietnam by 43 per cent and Singapore by 37 per cent. “Most of these economies had flattened the Covid-19 curve in this period,” Crisil said. India’s exports have shown a massive improvement sequentially, as the yearly contraction narrowed to -10.2 per cent in July from a severe -60.2 per cent in April, it said. In contrast, exports to western economies such as the US, Brazil, the UK, and Germany declined as they are struggling with higher Covid-19 caseloads, the report adds. While India’s exports to the UK contracted 34 per cent in June, those for Germany declined 18 per cent and for the US by 11 per cent. The sharpest fall in exports was to the UAE, at 53.2 per cent. “Export prospects for this fiscal will pivot on the trajectory of the pandemic across countries. It will rise to countries that have controlled their caseload and restarted activity,” the report states. India’s exports have declined sharply since March 2020, but have recovered in June and July, contracting by only around 10-12 per cent in these two months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-308
25-08-2020||Business||Axis prunes Max Life stake purchase||Axis Bank on Monday said it will acquire a 17 per cent stake in Max Life Insurance instead of the 29 per cent proposed earlier, according to a revised deal. At present, Axis Bank holds about a 1 per cent stake in Max Life and is the biggest banking channel partner for the distribution of the insurer’s products. Products sold through the bank reportedly account for 54 per cent of Max Life’s revenues. According to the definitive agreement signed between Axis Bank and Max Financial Services (MFS), the holding company of Max Life, the private sector bank was to pick up an additional 29 per cent stake in the life insurer. “In this regard, we would like to inform you that following the recent developments, Axis Bank now proposes to acquire 17.002 per cent of the equity share capital of Max Life, resulting in a total ownership of 18 per cent post the transaction. The parties have executed the definitive agreements,” the bank said in a regulatory filing Axis Bank and Max Life will soon approach the respective regulatory authorities with the revised applications for their approval, it said. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals from Irdai, the RBI and the Competition Commission of India. Some changes were made to the deal last month following a correspondence from the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Irdai) received by the company. MFS holds a 72.5 per cent stake in Max Life and Japan-based Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance (MSI) owns a 25.5 per cent stake. After the completion of the series of transactions, Max Life will become an 82:18 joint venture between MFS and Axis Bank. Max Life had made an attempt to merge with HDFC Life in 2017 but they did not receive regulatory approvals reportedly because of the complexity of the deal. Interestingly, the deal was brokered by the then HDFC Life CEO Amitabh Chaudhry, who is now the CEO of Axis Bank. Following the failure of the deal, Max Group made several attempts to sell part of its stake but was not successful.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-308
25-08-2020||Business||HDFC Bank sees recovery in October||Sashidhar Jagdishan, who is due to take over as the new CEO of HDFC Bank, expects the economy to return to normal by October and believes that the scale of bad loans at the bank will be far less that it was during the global economic crisis of 2008-09. Jagdishan will take charge as the managing director and CEO of HDFC Bank from October 27, succeeding Aditya Puri who was with the bank for more than 25 years. Speaking at a conference call with analysts organised by Macquarie Securities, Jagdishan said that though these were unprecedented times and there was uncertainty on how long the pandemic will last, economic acivity has not come to a standstill. “People have realised that livelihood is important, we are seeing slightly more people going out either for work or even institutions calling them back on work. This is some of the feedback that is coming from multiple areas of our customer base. In terms of our business, we are seeing slowly the activity is increasing in multiple areas of the bank,” he said. Jagdishan, who expects “a bit of normalcy to begin from October”, indicated that its first impact could be felt on the consumer or retail side of the business in terms of consumer spends, particularly in some of the asset products. The HDFC Bank CEO designate said that he was “lucky” to lead a platform that was poised for more growth as its management has been working as a team on various strategic pillars that will be game changers for the bank in the future. “All I have to do is press the pedal to get scale,” he added. While around 10 per cent of its loan book is at present under moratorium, HDFC Bank does not expect a major rise in its non-performing assets. Jagdishan hinted that even in the worst-case scenario its gross NPAs will not cross the 2.08 per cent level seen after the global financial crisis. For the first quarter ended June 30, its gross NPAs stood at 1.36 per cent. He added that the lender was not compromising its risk standards, adding that the bank will cater largely to the top 20-25 per cent of the country’s population.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-308
25-08-2020||Business||PNB chief S.S. Mallikarjuna Rao allays layoff fears||PNB managing director and CEO S.S. Mallikarjuna Rao on Monday assured that that there will be no layoffs because of the merger of Oriental Bank of Commerce and Union Bank of India with the bank. “There will be no retrenchment of employees because of the merger … PNB has a strength of 1.03 lakh employees and as the business grows, our employee strength will also grow,” Rao told reporters. The amalgamation of Punjab National Bank, United Bank of India and Oriental Bank of Commerce came into effect from April 1, 2020, creating the second largest public sector bank in the country. “On our loan book size, the rough estimate is that 5-6 per cent of the credit book may be eligible under the restructuring profile. But we will be able to get a better estimate by the end of September,” Rao said. At the end of June, PNB’s loan book size stood at Rs 7.21 lakh crore. So, the bank expects loans worth Rs 36,000- 38,000 crore to avail the restructuring window provided by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). Rao said that majority of the restructured loan accounts would belong to the corporate segment. He added that the bank does not expect a large number of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and personal account holders to go for loan restructuring. “Of the total loan book of Rs 7.21 lakh crore, Rs 1.27 lakh crore belongs to the MSME categories. Out of this, around 14 per cent is under non-performing assets (NPA) category so the remaining MSME accounts will be eligible which is not expected to be high in terms of value,” Rao added. The Reserve Bank of India had earlier allowed a one-time restructuring of loans without classifying them as non-performing assets to help companies and individuals manage the financial stress caused by coronavirus pandemic. Only those companies and individuals whose loans accounts are in default for not more than 30 days as on March 1, 2020, are eligible for one-time restructuring. For corporate borrowers, banks can invoke a resolution plan till December 31, 2020 and implement it till June 30, 2021. For personal loans, banks have an option to invoke the resolution plan till December 31, 2020 and implement it within 90 days from the date of invocation. Accounts which are standard, but not in default for more than 30 days as on March 1,2020 will be eligible for restructuring. Only 20-22 per cent account holders in PNB opted for loan moratorium, Rao said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-308
25-08-2020||Business||DoT tug-of-war with Reliance Communications||The committee of creditors of Reliance Communications Ltd (R-Com) met on Monday in the wake of the insolvency proceedings initiated against promoter Anil Ambani and the department of telecommunications’ (DoT) demand that spectrum should not be part of the resolution process. The committee is understood to have reiterated its earlier decision to distribute the proceeds among the financial creditors, jetissoning the DoT as the department it is considered as an operational creditor. Last week, the DoT filed an application with the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) contending that spectrum should not be a part of the resolution plan of R-Com and its sister concern Reliance Telecom. The DoT had filed an affidavit detailing its objections. The NCLT has kept the matter for hearing on September 8. R-Com owes more than Rs 49,000 crore to its lenders, including Rs 7,000 crore to Chinese banks, and Rs 25,199 crore in spectrum usage charges and license fee to DoT. The committee of creditors has picked UV Asset Reconstruction and Reliance Jio to buy R-Com’s spectrum, real estate, enterprise, tower and data centre business for around Rs 23,000 crore .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-308
25-08-2020||Business||Supreme Court firm on dues of insolvent telcos||The Supreme Court on Monday said spectrum cannot be sold or shared by wiping out government dues. The new party cannot take over the spectrum free of liabilities. The bench also reserved its verdict on the point as to whether spectrum can be sold by the telecom companies facing proceedings under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) and how the Adjusted Gross Revenue (AGR) related-dues are to be recovered from them. The top court will also give its finding on the payment of dues, if any, on Jio and Airtel which have spectrum sharing pacts with R-Com, Aircel and Videocon, respectively. “If telecom firms are unwilling to pay, we will direct cancel of spectrum allocation. How else is the DoT supposed to deal with such an issue?” the bench asked. “How can you sell somebody else’s property? This will allow for dues to be wiped out. New party will take over free of all encumbrances, liabilities. Wiping out of government dues in this fashion is not permissible,” the apex court observed while reserving its verdict. The bench said telecom players cannot use “insolvency proceedings” before the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) as a “subterfuge” to default on the dues of the government. Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta appearing for the department of telecommunications (DoT) said all liabilities, including AGR-related dues, should be cleared by the telecom firms prior to spectrum trading as per the guidelines. The DoT further told the top court that it can seek to recover dues from sellers and buyers of spectrum, jointly or individually. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, S. Abdul Nazeer and M.R. Shah was informed by the solicitor-general that the assessment of dues was under process and once the Supreme Court clarifies the legal position on spectrum sharing, it will move to recover the outstanding amounts from the telecom firms. The DoT said that no demand has been raised against Reliance Jio and Airtel for part dues of Reliance Communications (R-Com) and Videocon, respectively. If the apex court directs the operators using spectrum of bankrupt companies to pay the past dues, both Airtel and rival Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd will be hit hard. While Aircel owes Rs 12,289 crore in AGR dues, Videocon has a liability of Rs 1,376 crore and R-Com owes Rs 25,199 crore. In 2016, Bharti Airtel had bought Aircel’s spectrum in the 2300 MHz band and Videocon’s spectrum in the 1800 Mhz band through trading. Reliance Jio has acquired 47.50 Mhz from R-Com through trading. It is also sharing some spectrum with R-Com. Additional reporting by our Delhi bureau||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-308
25-08-2020||Business||Dusit to manage and operate Jain Group hotel at Rajarhat ||Thailand-based hospitality chain Dusit International will step into Bengal through an alliance with city-based realtor Jain Group. Dusit will manage and operate a 126-room property being built by the Jain Group at a cost of Rs 75 crore in Rajarhat near Eco Park. The property will bear the badge of Dusit Princess Suite, one of the many brands the Thai company operates, and is expected to be ready by the middle of 2022. “While Covid-19 has brought immense challenges for tourism and hospitality worldwide, we remain confident that our resilient industry can and will bounce back, and we expect India to be a key player in international and domestic tourism in the brighter days ahead,” Suphajee Suthumpun, group CEO of Dusit International, said. This will be the second hospitality project by Jain Group, which owns the 134-room Holiday Inn hotel in Rajarhat. It is banking on the pull of the Dusit brand among south eastern and far eastern travellers for the success of the new venture, Rishi Jain, managing director of the J Group, said. “By the time the project is ready for launch, we hope the hospitality market will revive. This pandemic too shall pass,” Jain said, adding that the Holiday Inn property is clocking 50 per cent occupancy as of now. While announcing the tie-up, Lim Boon Kwee, chief operating officer of Dusit International, said the company plans to tie up for another 4-6 properties in India over the next 12-18 months. An associate company of Dusit has already signed up to manage luxury villas in Goa. “We want to be present in all major business and tourist destinations of India,” Kwee said. In Calcutta, the property will be a 4-star one and a part of the Dream One housing project Jain Group has undertaken in Action Area II. It will be a 14-storied property catering to business and leisure travellers for short and long stays. Shrayans Jain, vice-chairman of Jain Group, said he was banking on Dusit’s expertise of seven decades for the success of the project. Established in 1948, the Thai stock exchange-listed Dusit International’s property portfolio now comprises more than 300 properties operating under six brands across 13 countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-308
