26-08-2020||Business||States to demand pending dues at GST meet||The GST Council meeting on Thursday is likely to be a stormy affair as opposition-ruled states unite to pressure the Centre to give them the promised compensation for loss of revenue arising from the implementation of GST. The 41st meeting of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council, to be held via video conferencing, has just one agenda for discussion -- making up for shortfall in states' revenues, sources said. The options being explored are market borrowing, raising cess rate or increasing the number of items for levy of compensation cess. Discussion on correction in inverted duty on certain goods like textiles and footwear is also likely, they said. The Covid-19 crisis has further compounded the state's fiscal problems. Ahead of the meeting, chief ministers of opposition-ruled states got together on Wednesday to devise a common strategy on the issue. Congress President Sonia Gandhi set the tone for the GST Council meeting by calling the Centre's refusal to reimburse the states as nothing short of betrayal of the people by the Modi government. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Maharashtra's Uddhav Thackeray, Jharkhand's Hemant Soren and chief ministers of Congress-ruled states Amarinder Singh, Ashok Gehlot, Bhupesh Baghel and V Narayanasamy attended the meeting. We have to work together and fight together against the Central government," Gandhi said at the meeting. Banerjee had earlier stated the situation was "very serious" and opposition-ruled states should fight unitedly. States like Kerala, Punjab and Bihar have already said that the Centre is morally bound to make good any shortfall in GST revenues to them in the first five years of implementation of the regime that subsumed 17 different central and state taxes. Attorney General K K Venugopal had earlier opined that the Centre is not legally bound to make up from its coffers any shortfall in GST revenues of states. Sources had earlier indicated that following the AG's opinion, states may now have to look at market borrowings to make good their respective revenue shortfall and the GST Council will take a final call. The Centre had in March sought views from the Attorney General on the legality of market borrowing to make good the shortfall in the compensation fund -- a corpus created from levy of additional tax on luxury and sin goods to compensate states for revenue shortfall arising from their taxes being subsumed into GST. The AG in his view had also said the GST Council has to decide on making good the shortfall in the GST compensation fund by providing the sufficient amount to be credited to the corpus. Sources said the options before the Council for meeting the shortfall could be to rationalise GST rates, cover more items under the compensation cess or increase the cess, or recommend higher borrowing by states to be repaid by the future collection into the compensation fund. Under GST law, states were guaranteed to be compensated bi-monthly for any loss of revenue in the first five years of the GST implementation from July 1, 2017. The shortfall is calculated assuming a 14 per cent annual growth in GST collections by states over the base year of 2015-16. Under the GST structure, taxes are levied under 5, 12, 18 and 28 per cent slabs. On top of the highest tax slab, a cess is levied on luxury, sin and demerit goods and the proceeds from the same are used to compensate states for any revenue loss. The GST Council has to decide how to meet the shortfall in such circumstances and not the central government, sources added. Any borrowing of the central government is upon the security of the Consolidated Fund of India. Similarly, borrowing by a state government is upon the security of the consolidated fund of the state. In either case, it would lead to increased general government debt burden and a higher fiscal deficit. The payment of GST compensation to states became an issue after revenues from the imposition of cess started dwindling since August 2019. The Centre had to dive into the excess cess amount collected during 2017-18 and 2018-19. The Centre had released over Rs 1.65 lakh crore in 2019-20 as GST compensation. However, the amount of cess collected during 2019-20 was Rs 95,444 crore.
The compensation payout amount was Rs 69,275 crore in 2018-19 and Rs 41,146 crore in 2017-18. AMRG & Associates Senior Partner Rajat Mohan said coffers of the state are drying up and they are pushing the central government for promised compensation for the loss of revenue arising on account of implementation of GST, even though the loss is attributable to the pandemic. "It is expected that the GST Council may pass on only few tax breaks for some items however, focus would be more on increasing the tax revenues by increasing compensation cess for the sin goods," Mohan added. Managed indirect tax service provider TMSL Founding Partner Jigar Doshi said "for a taxpayer this council meeting may not be of significance unless the states and Centre don't agree on a mid point and additional levies or extension of cess or increase rate of cess is introduced at discretion of respective states to resolve the budget constraints."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-306
26-08-2020||Business||Paytm goes on  hiring spree||Fintech major Paytm on Wednesday said it is in the process of hiring over 1,000 engineers, data scientists, financial analysts among other positions for tech and non-tech roles over the next few months as it looks to expands its operations in the country. Paytm and its group businesses such as lending, insurance, wealth management and offline payments have been expanding operations, thereby creating the need to bring in more tech and non-tech employees, it said in a statement. "The company has ramped up recruitment as it is heading for a rapid expansion of its financial and wealth management services," Paytm said, adding that this team expansion would play an essential role in launching innovative financial services and technology to fuel its growth journey. Other than tech and non-tech hires to fill positions across its operations in Delhi-NCR, Mumbai and Bengaluru, Paytm is also bringing in over 50 senior-level executives in vice president roles and above to bolster its senior leadership. In April, the Noida-based company had announced plans to hire over 500 people. Asked if Paytm has completed that process, the company said it has hired close to 700 employees during the last four months. "The 1,000 people is additional manpower in tech and non-tech roles that we need and the hiring process is on for that," it said in an e-mailed response. In its statement, Paytm said it held interviews and inductions of new joinees even during the lockdown. In response to reports of layoffs and exit of senior leaders, the company said, "We have not laid off any employees or resorted to any salary cuts." "From April 2019 to date...while around 20 senior executives exited Paytm, over 140 have been hired for leadership roles in vice-president and above positions. Paytm is recruiting talent from Fortune 500 companies, MNCs, top startups, and bringing in people who have entrepreneurial experience," the statement said. Recently, the company also announced setting up of its largest campus in Noida to accommodate its expanding team. The 5,000 seater office is spread across 5.5 lakh square feet of space. "We are building India's largest consumer internet and financial technology platform that requires more talent. This year, we are aiming to add additional 1,000 colleagues to our different business verticals to build and scale innovative products for the masses," Paytm Vice President Narender Yadav said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-306
26-08-2020||Business||Finance minister looks to overcome funds crunch||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday told the members of the Confederation of Indian Industry that the government had done a credible job on structural reforms even as she admitted that domestic revenue generation had been a major concern because of the debilitating effect of the pandemic on sectors such as hotels, tourism, real estate and aviation. The intent on reform has been reflected in the slew of measures and policies announced since the outbreak of Covid-19, Sitharaman said. The  government will move fast on the Cabinet-cleared strategic disinvestment decisions, she added. “Every policy which was introduced had a structural component. Consequently, the reforms are having a significant impact on the recovery process which we are currently witnessing.” On the private investment cycle, Sitharaman said that in September 2019, the government had reduced the corporate tax rate but investments could not happen because of the pandemic. “With post-Covid reset happening, the emphasis has to be on adoption of data-driven manufacturing models through ploughing greater investments in these models."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-307
26-08-2020||Business||Harsh Lodha retains berth ||Harsh Vardhan Lodha has been reappointed on the board of Birla Corporation, overcoming a temporary legal challenge posed by the Birla family. The resolution to Lodha’s directorship — he is the chairman of BCL — was carried by a 97.98 per cent majority in the annual general meeting of the company, stock exchange filing showed, underlining the limited influence of the administrator pendente lite committee on the affairs of MP Birla Group. The APL committee, entrusted by Calcutta High Court to protect the estate of late Priyamvada Devi Birla, had asked all trusts and companies forming the promoter group of BCL and other MP Birla Group firms to vote against the resolution to Lodha’s reappointment in BCL and Universal Cable, and profit-linked commission paid to him in the four listed companies of the group. They did not. The Birlas — who were baying for ouster of the Lodha family from the control of MP Birla Group for the last 16-years — went to court to enforce the direction of the APL committee but a division bench of HC decided not to adjudicate on the matter now. “Having exhaustively heard the parties and considering the materials placed, the Court does not intend to examine the rival contentions at this stage on merits,” the order of bench, comprising Justice Biswajit Basu and Subrata Talukdar, said. The bench further added that the steps taken in relation to the resolutions disputed by Birlas shall abide by “such final order as may be passed by the Hon’ble single bench”. The single bench, which is also hearing the probate of a will by Late Priyamvada bequeathing her assets to late Rajendra Singh Lodha, father of Harsh in 2004 — Birlas have contested the will — is already hearing a batch of applications that relates to the similar directions passed by the APL committee in 2019. The “main issue” as referred by the DB, is whether the probate court has jurisdiction on the matter. Birlas said that the court order, “leaves the stay of H.V. Lodha in the four manufacturing companies at the mercy of the courts”, undermining the overwhelming voting in favour. Lodha was appointed on the board of Universal Cable with 99.27 per cent votes cast in his favour, while resolutions to profit linked commissions were all passed by over 97 per cent majority. Earlier in the day during the AGM, the company guided that expansion at Muktaban is on track and to be completed by the second quarter of 2021 and BCL plans to achieve a 25 million tonne capacity by 2025.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-307
26-08-2020||Business||Ant Group files for dual listing||Ant Group, the financial technology arm of Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba Group, on Tuesday filed for a dual listing in Hong Kong and Shanghai, in what may be the largest share offering since the coronavirus pandemic began. The initial public offering will be the first dual listing on the Hong Kong exchange and Shanghai’s STAR Market. The company’s filing did not disclose the timetable for its public offering or how much money it hopes to raise. Ant Group operates Alipay, one of China’s two dominant online payments services. Over a billion users use Alipay to pay for purchases both online and in stores, to send money to friends and to pay bills. In the 12 months that ended in June, Ant Group tallied 118 trillion yuan ($17 trillion) in transaction volume. In the filing, Ant Group said it plans to use the funds raised from the listing to expand its service offerings, invest in research and development, and to expand its payments business internationally. Ant Group was valued at $150 billion in a private fundraising round in 2018, making it the most valuable startup company in the world. The company posted a revenue of 72.5 billion yuan ($10.5 billion) in the first half of this year, an increase of almost 40 per cent from the same period in 2019. The company also runs one of the world’s largest money market funds as well as Zhima Credit, a private credit rating system for its users.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-307
26-08-2020||Business||JSW One takes off from Bengal||Sajjan Jindal’s JSW Group is consolidating the distribution and sales of the cement and steel businesses under one umbrella to reach a wider audience. The new venture, christened JSW One, is starting from the East and the first hub of the business has come up at Salboni, Bengal. JSW, a leading producer of steel in the country but a relative new entrant in cement, will offer distributors of each product a chance to sell the other. This will expand the reach of JSW products and create a larger market for the group. For instance, there are 3,800 selling counters in the East for cement and 1,100 for steel which goes into construction (TMT rebar or roofing sheets). However, only 110 such counters sell both steel and cement together even though customers often buy both together. Commenting on the initiative, Parth Jindal, managing director of JSW Cement, said: “Our customers need TMT rebars, cement and steel roofs to construct their houses as well as paint to beautify their homes. JSW Group is the only conglomerate globally which can offer steel, cement and paints as a comprehensive offering to our customers.” Initially, the group will focus only on steel and cement as paints is at a nascent stage. Being produced from Vijaynagar in Karnataka, it is only available in the southern and western markets. Once paints are rolled out nationally in 2-3 years and JSW One steps out of the east, all three products will be sold by a common distribution and retail channel. Surjayan Mukherjee, vice- president of sales & marketing of JSW Cement, said JSW One is expecting a business of Rs 2,300 crore this year and sale of TMT rebar in the east can jump more than three times of 250,000 tonne. “We will bring the rebars from Vijaynagar and Monnet Ispat plant to Salboni, where a 2.4 million tonne grinding unit is already there, to service eastern markets under JSW One,” Mukherjee explained. JSW Cement is expanding the plant at Salboni, where originally an integrated steel plant was to come up to 3 MT by debottlenecking exercise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-307
26-08-2020||Business||Tata Motors eyes zero debt||Tata Motors aims to reduce its total automotive debt to ‘near-zero levels’ in three years and generate free cash flows from 2021-22 onwards, chairman N. Chandrasekaran said on Tuesday. However, the company’s management had to face flak from several shareholders on various issues, including non-payment of dividend for four years in a row. Chandrasekaran, while addressing shareholders at Tata Motors’ 75th annual general meeting, said the company would look to unlock non-core investments in order to deleverage business, but asserted that neither the passenger vehicles business JLR is being sold. “Currently, Tata Motors Group has a net automotive debt of Rs 48,000 crore and we are deleveraging this business substantially,” he said. “We have set a target to significantly bring down the debt and come to near-zero debt levels in the next three years.” The company has initiated steps towards this and and set a target to generate positive free cash flows from 2021-22 onwards, he added. Chandrasekaran said overall investments of the group have reduced by close to 50 per cent this fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-307
26-08-2020||Business||Economy: Reality check on stimulus||The Panglossian glow that has suffused the Narendra Modi-government’s narrative on the Indian economy — built largely on the chimera of a Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package devised in May — dimmed considerably on Tuesday when the Reserve Bank of India spelt out some harsh truths in its annual report for 2019-20. For a start, the report said the Centre and the states have “much less fiscal space to deal with Covid-19 than during the global financial crisis of 2008-09”. At a time a number of economists have been talking about the need to persuade the central bank to monetise the widening fiscal deficit through direct bond purchases, the RBI has said that the government needs to come out with a credible consolidation plan specifying actionables for the reduction of debt and deficit levels. It feels that only such a plan “will earn (the government) confidence and acceptability rather than extending the path of touchdown”. The report goes on to say that government consumption spending has provided a measure of relief but it has become increasingly evident that it cannot continue to crank up the economy by using its spending lever. “It is prudent to expect lower contributions of GFCE (government final consumption expenditure) to overall demand.” The report noted that the government’s revenue expenditure, net of interest payment and major subsidies, had risen by 33.7 per cent in the first quarter of the year. The RBI also busted some myths spun by the government spinmeisters who have been seeking to draw comfort from some pre-Covid measures that the government had taken last year, notably the corporate tax cuts in September last year. The government wants to believe that the measure would have kick started the private investment cycle if it had not been for the Covid crisis. The RBI brutally negates that assumption. The report says: “The corporate tax cut of September 2019 has been utilised in debt servicing, build-up of cash balances and other current assets rather than restarting the capex cycle...the appetite for investment is anaemic and in need of more reforms.” To boost fiscal revenues and mitigate the pains of this transition, the RBI said big data and technology can be leveraged to track and identify tax defaulters and increase the base. The RBI said GST needed to be rationalised, with the return process simplified. Besides, fiscal incentives for industry can be realigned in favour of productive labour-intensive companies so as to generate employment. The RBI also suggested that the government should establish apex authorities along the lines of the GST Council in respect of land, labour and power to drive structural reforms. It wanted cross subsidies in the power sector to be eliminated by recasting tariff structure, adding that any subsidy could be given through the direct benefit transfer route. The report says alternatives to bank finance had to be found and suggested that the opportunities afforded by the capital markets and foreign direct investment needed to be explored. It called for a “big push” to mega infrastructure projects and stressed that recapitalisation of public and private sector banks had assumed critical importance. Minimum capital requirements may no longer suffice to absorb post-pandemic losses. The RBI appears to have kept more for unforeseen circumstances in its books  and has transferred Rs 73,615 crore to its contingency fund, which rose to Rs 2,64,034 crore for the year ended June 30, 2020 against Rs 1,96, 344 crore a year ago. Balancesheet size swelled 30 per cent during the year, following an increase in its domestic and foreign investments, the annual report said. The apex bank continued  to buy gold — and added another 43.25 metric tonnes to its gold reserves which swelled to 661.41 metric tonnes in the year ended June 30 this year. As of June 30, 2019, it held 618.16 metric tonnes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-307
26-08-2020||Business||RBI: Twist to pare yields||The RBI on Tuesday announced another “Operation Twist” as it sought to cool down bond yields, which have breached the 6-per-cent-mark. The central bank said that it will conduct simultaneous purchase and sale of government securities under Open Market Operation for an aggregate amount of Rs 20,000 crore in two tranches of Rs 10,000 crore each. The auctions would be conducted on August 27 and September 3. This is the third such auction conducted by the central bank during this fiscal. The previous such auction was conducted for Rs 10,000 crore in July 2 and April 27.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-307
