27-08-2020||Business||Centre places 2 options before states to meet GST revenue shortfall||The Centre on Thursday placed before the GST Council two options for borrowing by states to meet the shortfall in GST revenues, pegged at Rs 2.35 lakh crore in the current fiscal. Briefing reporters after the 41st meeting of the GST Council, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the economy is facing an extraordinary "Act of God" situation, which may result in economic contraction. As per the Centre's calculation, the compensation requirement by the states in the current fiscal would be Rs 3 lakh crore, of which Rs 65,000 crore is expected to be met from the cess levied in the GST regime. Hence, the total shortfall is estimated at Rs 2.35 lakh crore. Revenue Secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey said of this, Rs 97,000 crore is on account of GST shortfall, while the rest is due to the impact of COVID-19 on the economy. Pandey said a special window can be provided to the states, in consultation with the RBI, at a reasonable interest rate for borrowing of Rs 97,000 crore. The amount can be repaid after five years (of GST implementation) ending 2022 from cess collection. The second option before the states is to borrow the entire Rs 2.35 lakh crore shortfall under the special window. "States have been given seven days' time to think over the proposal," Pandey said. The crucial meeting of the GST Council on compensating states for revenue shortfall began with the states ruled by non-NDA parties opposing the Centre's move to ask states to borrow to meet the deficit. While Congress and the states ruled by non-NDA parties pushed for the Centre meeting its statutory obligation of covering the deficit, the Union government cited a legal opinion to say it had no such obligation if there was a shortfall in tax collections. The Centre as well as BJP-JD(U)-ruled Bihar were of the opinion that the states should borrow to make up for the shortfall in the tax revenues that have been compounded by the Covid-19 crisis, sources said. In 2017, 28 states agreed to subsume their local taxes such as VAT into the new, nationwide Goods and Services Tax (GST), in what was hailed as the biggest tax reform. At that time, the Centre had promised to compensate states for any revenue loss for five years from a pool created by levying cess over and above the GST on luxury and sin goods. GST collections including that of compensation cess had been falling short of the targets even before the pandemic, making it difficult for the Centre to compensate the states. States are supposed to receive half of the GST receipts. While the kitty of GST compensation cess may have lagged targets, the Centre has raised cess on items such as petrol and diesel, which have been kept out of the GST regime. This collection, which totals to several thousand crores of rupees, is not shared with states. At Thursday's meeting, Bengal was joined by Punjab, Kerala and Delhi in asking the Centre to make up for the shortfall, sources said. They said Sitharaman was citing an opinion of Attorney General K K Venugopal that stated the Centre is not legally bound to make up from its coffers any shortfall in GST revenues of states. The Centre had in March sought views from the Attorney General on the legality of market borrowing to make good the shortfall in the compensation fund -- a corpus created from levy of additional tax on luxury and sin goods to compensate states for revenue shortfall arising from their taxes being subsumed into GST. The AG had also opined that the GST Council has to decide on making good the shortfall in the GST compensation fund by providing the sufficient amount to be credited to the corpus. Sources said the options before the Council for meeting the shortfall could be to rationalise GST rates, cover more items under the compensation cess or increase the cess, or recommend higher borrowing by states to be repaid by the future collection into the compensation fund. Under the GST law, states were guaranteed to be compensated bi-monthly for any loss of revenue in the first five years of the GST implementation from July 1, 2017. The shortfall is calculated assuming a 14 per cent annual growth in GST collections by states over the base year of 2015-16. Under the GST structure, taxes are levied under 5, 12, 18 and 28 per cent slabs. On top of the highest tax slab, a cess is levied on luxury, sin and demerit goods and the proceeds from the same are used to compensate states for any revenue loss. The GST Council has to decide how to meet the shortfall in such circumstances and not the central government, according to sources. The payment of GST compensation to states became an issue after revenues from the imposition of cess started dwindling since August 2019. The Centre had to dive into the excess cess amount collected during 2017-18 and 2018-19. The Centre had released over Rs 1.65 lakh crore in 2019-20 as GST compensation. However, the amount of cess collected during 2019-20 was Rs 95,444 crore. The compensation payout amount was Rs 69,275 crore in 2018-19 and Rs 41,146 crore in 2017-18.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-305
27-08-2020||Business||Smell vulnerabilities early to avoid frauds, RBI Governor tells banks||Reserve Bank Governor Shaktikanta Das on Thursday asked banks to avoid extreme risk-aversion, terming it self-defeating, and also advised them to smell vulnerabilities in businesses early to avoid frauds, which have been growing lately. He said the banking system continues to be sound and stable, but acknowledged that the Covid-19 crisis will lead to an erosion of capital for banks. The remarks, made at a webinar by financial daily Business Standard, come at a time when credit growth has slowed down to under 6 per cent, leading many to wonder if the banks have become risk-averse because of concerns over asset quality. The RBI annual report released earlier this week said frauds doubled to Rs 1.85 lakh crore in FY20. The risk management systems (of banks) should be sophisticated enough to smell vulnerabilities brewing within various businesses well in advance and should be dynamic enough to capture the looming risks in sync with changes in the external environment, Das said. One visible area of concern in the arena of risk management is the inability or the ability to manage the incidence of frauds, both cyber related and otherwise, he added. Das said the higher incidence of frauds which have come to light in recent times have their origins in not so efficient risk management capacity of the concerned banks both at the time of sanctioning the loans and also post-sanction credit monitoring. Das also trained his guns at the sluggish credit growth, warning banks that extreme risk aversion will be self-defeating which will deprive the banks of their income sources. It would create a situation where the banks will not be able to win their bread. In other words, it will impact their income also. Extreme risk-aversion is certainly not desirable, he said. The banks have to focus on governance, risk management, quality of decision-making and going forward building resilience, he added. At the same event, Aditya Puri, head of largest private sector lender HDFC Bank, denied any aversion at his bank and pointed to the 20 per cent growth in core interest income it reported in the last quarter. Das said there will be an impact on banks' capital base because of the impact of the ongoing pandemic, and reiterated his wishes from them of being forthcoming in capital raising. The current pandemic-related shock is likely to place greater pressures on the balance sheets of banks, leading to erosion of their capital. I am stating the obvious, he said, clarifying that what is more important is how the banks proactively react and respond to this challenge. Proactive capital raising can ensure credit flow and also boost the confidence of the investors and other stakeholders, Das said. He said the RBI has asked banks and other financiers to do stress testing. Once any stress point is identified, the lenders have to use available dispensations and the June 7, 2019, circular. Das, however, made it clear that the financial sector should not presume that the post-COVID dispensations will continue after the crisis is over. However, he was quick to clarify on it as well. By no stretch should it be assumed that RBI is going to unwind the measures in the near future, the Governor said. Das said the RBI is expecting an efficient and diligent implementation of the debt resolution plans by the banks and added that the recast package has been designed to take care of all the stakeholders including the depositors and also the crisis-affected individuals and entities. The moratorium on loans was a temporary solution and the debt recasts are expected to give a durable relief to borrowers, he said. Das also said that banks have to be run in a professional manner with full autonomy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-305
27-08-2020||Business||Cash-strapped airlines likely to cede ground||The weak liquidity position of some Indian airlines is likely to force them to curtail operations and allow stronger rivals to enhance their presence in the domestic aviation sector, Fitch Ratings said on Wednesday. A higher market share, apart from cost-cutting measures, will allow airlines such as market leader IndiGo to improve their performance after a sharp drop in earnings in the second quarter of 2020 even though overall travel demand is unlikely to rebound quickly. IndiGo is well placed to consolidate its market position in the coming months because of the liquidity pressure at rival airlines. Its share of domestic passengers has already risen to 60 per cent by July-end of 2020 from 48 per cent in the first quarter of 2020. The rating agency said the company mitigated the impact of an almost 90 per cent fall in revenue by focusing on lowering its fixed costs for aircraft and renegotiating lease terms with lessors and employee expense. “IndiGo’s position contrasts with that of SpiceJet, which had the second-largest domestic market share of 16 per cent as on July, but is facing liquidity-related challenges. SpiceJet’s standby letter of credit facility remained unpaid for more than 30 days as of June-end 2020 and the company asked the market regulator for a delay in the reporting of its financial results for the year ended March 2020 to July, from end-June.”
GoAir has also been asked by the Airports Authority of India to clear its unpaid dues and pay upfront for utilising airport services, it said. The Tata group may also be consolidating its presence in the Indian aviation sector with a bid for state-owned Air India. The group, which already has 51 per cent stakes in low-cost carrier AirAsia India and full-service airline Vistara, is evaluating whether to place a bid for Air India. “We think volume growth will remain in single digits over the next few months,” Fitch added. The government allowed domestic flight operations to resume from May 25, 2020, two months after they were prohibited. However, capacity restrictions and fare brackets remain in place. The government initially allowed carriers to deploy only 33 per cent of their capacity in place before March 25 and this was increased to 45 per cent in late June.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-305
27-08-2020||Business||Ex-IOC chief to head Reliance Industries Ltd O2C biz||Former Indian Oil Corp (IOC) chairman Sanjiv Singh has joined Reliance Industries Ltd as group president for the Mukesh Ambani-run firm’s oil-to-chemicals business. A communication by RIL executive director Hital R. Meswani to the company employees said Singh, who superannuated from India’s largest oil firm on June 30, will be a member of the leadership team of oil-to-chemicals (O2C) business. RIL’s O2C business consists of the group’s twin oil refineries at Jamnagar in Gujarat, petrochemical plants, 51 per cent of fuel retail and aviation fuel venture and bulk wholesale marketing businesses. It does not include the firm’s upstream oil and gas exploration assets that include a 66.6 per cent interest in the eastern offshore KG-D6 block. RIL is in the process of carving out the O2C business into a separate unit, called Reliance O2C Ltd, for a possible sale of a 20 per cent interest to Saudi Aramco for $15 billion. The firm had earlier this year hired former IOC chairman Sarthak Behuria, 68, as a senior adviser to help shape the firm’s fuel retail business. “Sanjiv will lead and drive the group manufacturing services (GMS) organisation which is the backbone of our oil-to-chemicals business,” Meswani wrote. The refining and marketing business of RIL is headed by Meswani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-306
27-08-2020||Business||Bengal 22nd in export index||A central government’s export index has put Gujarat on the top among states followed by Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, while assigning Bengal a low 22nd rank. The Niti Aayog’s first ever export preparedness index, which gives Gujarat the top rank, aims to assess the readiness of states in export potential and performance. Bengal was ranked 22 in the index and placed at the bottom among the coastal states. According to the report, six of eight coastal states feature in the top-10 rankings, indicating the presence of strong enabling and facilitating factors. Among the landlocked states, Rajasthan has performed the best, followed by Telangana and Haryana. Of the Himalayan states, Uttarakhand topped the chart, followed by Tripura and Himachal Pradesh. Across the Union territories, Delhi has performed the best, followed by Goa and Chandigarh. The index weighed all states and Union territories on four pillars such as policy, business ecosystem, export ecosystem and export performance and 11 sub-pillars, including export promotion policy, export infrastructure, access to finance, transport connectivity and export diversification. About 70 per cent of India’s exports are currently dominated by five states — Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Telangana. Niti Aayog vice-chairman Rajiv Kumar said India’s exports sector holds immense potential to become a viable alternative supplier for some of the major economies. The commerce ministry’s investigation arm DGTR has recommended the imposition of anti-dumping duty for five years on “choline chloride”, a chemical imported from China, Malaysia and Vietnam, to guard domestic players. The directorate-general of trade remedies (DGTR) has recommended a duty in the range of $94 per tonne to $315 per tonne after conducting a probe on the alleged dumping of choline chloride in all forms by these countries, following a complaint by a domestic manufacturer. The chemical is used in animal feed and in the oil and gas sector. The finance ministry will take the final call on the levy. Jubilant Life Sciences had filed an application for imposition of anti-dumping duty on the imports from these three countries. “The authority recommends imposition of anti-dumping duty...so as to remove the injury to the domestic industry,” a notification of the DGTR said. Additional reporting by PTI in New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-306
27-08-2020||Business||Surge in NPAs makes bad bank inevitable: D. Subbarao||Former RBI governor D. Subbarao made a strong case for setting up a bad bank, saying it is “not just necessary but unavoidable” in the present circumstances when NPAs are likely to balloon and much of the resolution will have to take place outside the IBC framework. Even Economic Survey 2017 had proposed this idea, suggesting the creation of a bad bank, called Public Sector Asset Rehabilitation Agency, to help the lenders  tide themselves over the problem of stressed assets. “The standard advantage of a bad bank is that the entity taking a decision on the sale price is different from the entity accepting that price. Conflict of interest and corruption are avoided, and importantly, are seen to be avoided. “There are some successful models of bad banks with carefully designed carrots and sticks. Danaharta of Malaysia, for example, is a good model to study in designing our own bad bank,” Subbarao said. The former RBI governor noted that with the economy contracting by at least 5 per cent this financial year, non-performing assets (NPAs) will balloon. Also, according to the RBI’s Financial Stability Report, the gross NPAs of banks may rise to 12.5 per cent by March 2021 from 8.5 per cent in March 2020. “The bankruptcy framework is already overloaded and it will be unable to deal with this huge additional burden. It is important, more than ever before, that much of the resolution takes place outside the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code framework,” he said. Before the Covid-19 crisis, the economy was already decelerating, real gross domestic product (GDP) growth had moderated from 7 per cent in 2017-18 to 6.1 per cent in 2018-19 and 4.2 per cent in 2019-20.
The growth projections for the current financial year by various global and domestic agencies indicate a sharp contraction in the Indian economy, ranging from (-)3.2 per cent to (-)9.5 per cent. Earlier on, Subbarao said he had some reservations about a bad bank but, in view of the recent experience, he is veering towards the idea of it. “First I believed the bankruptcy framework will put resolution on track and help clean up the system,” he said, adding that in hindsight that faith seems misplaced. Subbarao admitted that he also had concerns about the capital structure of the bank.  “If capital has to come from the public sector banks (PSBs), the problems that bogged down PSB chiefs from taking bold decisions — fear of retribution — will persist.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-306
27-08-2020||Business||Showcause notice to Vodafone Idea||Trai has issued a show cause notice to Vodafone Idea for its premium plan which it feels is misleading and not in compliance with regulatory principles. The regulator has asked Vodafone Idea to “show cause” by August 31, “as to why appropriate action should not be initiated against it for violating the extant regulatory framework for its RedX tariff plan”. In the notice sent to Voda Idea, Trai said it is of the view that the “claim of the company in providing priority 4G network with faster data speeds is not in compliance with the extant regulatory framework”. “The RedX tariff offer lacks transparency and is misleading and not in compliance with regulatory principles of tariff assessment contained under the Telecom Tariff Order, 1999, as amended from time to time,” Trai has said in the show-cause notice. Sources in Vodafone confirmed receipt of the notice. However, sources in Bharti Airtel said they have not received any such notice yet. Airtel also has a similar Platinum plan for post-paid users. The Competition Commission of India (CCI) on Wednesday said it has approved the acquisition of compulsorily convertible preference shares and equity shares in Airtel’s data centre business, Nxtra Data, by Carlyle Group's Comfort Investments II. The Carlyle Group in July said it will acquire about 25 per cent stake in Nxtra Data Ltd for $235 million (about Rs 1,780 crore). This will peg the enterprise valuation of Nxtra Data at $1.2 billion, which is over Rs 9,084 crore. On completion of the deal, Carlyle will hold about a 25 per cent stake in the business, with Airtel continuing to hold the remaining 75 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-306
27-08-2020||Business||Rajiv Bajaj comes down on Modi govt over withdrawal of export incentives||Feisty businessman Rajiv Bajaj had another go at the Modi government on Wednesday — this time over the withdrawal of export incentives. Bajaj had earlier strafed the present regime for their policies on the lockdown, saying they had flattened the wrong curve of GDP. The latest jab came in an interview with a television channel with his claim that his company Bajaj Auto has lost Rs 300 crore because of the withdrawal of incentives under the government’s MEIS scheme. “The government should provide export incentives to businesses that have scale to become global players," the managing director of Bajaj Auto said, while making an uncharacteristic self-serving plea. Bajaj, however, welcomed finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s observation on Tuesday at a CII event that 28 per cent GST rate on two-wheelers may be brought down, possibly to 18 per cent. Bajaj said this would reduce the price of motorbikes and scooters by Rs 8,000-10,000 per unit. He was, however, scathing in his criticism of the merchandise export of India scheme (MEIS). Government data showed that the auto and the pharma sectors have been the major beneficiaries of the scheme, with Bajaj Auto the third biggest beneficiary in 2017-18. The top 10 companies that have obtained maximum disbursals during 2017-18 include JSW Steel (Rs 301.5 crore), Ford India (Rs 272.8 crore), Bajaj Auto (Rs 246.5 crore), Dr Reddys Lab (Rs 240.6 crore), Aurobindo Pharma (Rs 211.3 crore), Mylan Lab (Rs 192.9 crore), Hyundai Motor India (Rs 189.3 crore), Vedanta (Rs 180 crore), Lupin (Rs 155 crore), and Nissan Motor India (Rs 150 crore). Under MEIS, the government provides duty benefits depending on product and country. Rewards under the scheme are payable as a percentage of realised free-on-board value and the MEIS duty credit scrip can be transferred or used for payment of a number of duties, including the basic customs duty. The cash-strapped finance ministry has decided to limit benefits to Rs 9,000 crore under it during April to December 2020. The government data showed that in 2017-18, it  had disbursed about Rs 31,000 crore to exporters under the scheme, which increased to Rs 34,750 crore a year later. However, the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT), on July 23, blocked the MEIS module from accepting new applications for shipping bills.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-306
27-08-2020||Business||Centre must bridge GST gap||Bengal has joined several other non-BJP states to ask the Centre to fulfill its constitutional responsibility to compensate states for any shortfall in GST collection. State finance minister Amit Mitra sent a letter to his central counterpart a day before the GST Council meets on Thursday, which will be the first such meeting only to discuss how to narrow the deficit for states. States want to find resources to compensate for the shortfall, while the Centre is likely to nudge states to borrow from the market themselves. “Under no circumstances states should be asked to borrow from the market as it will increase the debt servicing liability,” Mitra wrote to Nirmala Sitharaman. The Centre has cleared compensation up to March 31, 2020. The compensation, which is usually paid bi-monthly, has not been paid this financial year. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said the Centre owed Rs 4,100 crore to Bengal on account of the GST. GST collection had nosedived in April and May as India had imposed one of the strictest lockdowns to combat the Covid-19 pandemic. Between April and July, combined GST collection was down a whopping 34 per cent compared with the year-ago period. However, the gap narrowed in June and July when the collections were down 9 per cent and 14 per cent ,respectively. Bengal had mopped up Rs 43,386 crore in 2019-20, up from Rs 39,780 crore in 2018-19. The state-wise data for this fiscal has not been published by the Centre yet, except for June when Bengal’s collection was down 7 per cent at Rs 3,128 crore against Rs 3,514 crore a year ago. Quoting section 18 of the 101 Constitutional Amendment Act, Mitra said there was no going back on the fact that compensation must be paid and the rate of 14 per cent was also sacrosanct. The Act binds the Centre constitutionally to factor in a revenue growth of 14 per cent with 2015-16 as the base year and make up for the shortfall for five years. GST was introduced from July 1, 2017, whereby states gave up their power to tax goods and services by 70 per cent. “The Centre must pay the compensation from the different cesses it collects, as it is not getting devolved to the state. In case of shortfall, it is the responsibility of the Centre to garner resources for fully compensating the states, according to the formula agreed upon with the states,” Mitra wrote. The Centre has blamed the poor revenue collection on all accounts as an excuse to delay paying compensation. Petrol, diesel, ATF and liquor are some of the items which are not part of GST, allowing states and the Centre to tax them at their will. Earlier this year, the Centre imposed an additional Rs 8 a litre cess on petrol and diesel to mop up gains from low global crude price. Collections from the pool of cess are not shared with states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-306
27-08-2020||Business||Lockdown: Markets bet on correction||Indian stocks won’t return to their pre-pandemic levels this year despite a rally in recent months because companies face further difficulties and a market correction is likely, a Reuters poll of equity strategists found. The benchmark BSE Sensex has rallied over 50 per cent from a record low hit on March 24, a day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi imposed a strict nationwide lockdown, which ended at the start of June, to try to control the pandemic. The index is still down around 6 per cent so far this year and is about 8 per cent below its life-high of 42273.87 on January 20. Nearly two-thirds, or 30 of 46 equity strategists polled, said a significant correction in Indian equities was either likely or very likely over the next three months. “I expect a correction of 10 per cent plus in the current calendar year at some point,” said Bharat Arora, equity strategist at B&K Securities in Mumbai, citing expectations for poor corporate earnings and economic performance in the previous and the current quarter. The BSE Sensex was forecast to end 2020 at 39000, near Tuesday’s close of 38843.88, the latest Reuters poll taken on August 13-25 found. That would be a 5.5 per cent loss for 2020, marking its worst calendar year performance since 2011. It was predicted to rise to 40500 by mid-2021, which would still be more than 4 per cent below the pre-pandemic high of 42273.87. Asked what would likely drive stocks for the rest of the year, most of those questioned said economic data and corporate earnings rather than the direct impact of the spread of the novel coronavirus. The virus has infected nearly 3.2 million people in India, where cases are accelerating at the fastest pace in the world. Asia's third-largest economy was forecast in the previous quarter to have shrunk 20.0% - the first double-digit contraction since official quarterly data began in the mid-1990s - and no growth for the rest of the year, a separate Reuters poll of economists found. With business activity and consumer sentiment restrained, Indian companies have reported their most disappointing numbers in the previous quarter in at least three years, with a quick rebound not expected soon. "There is a lot of demand destruction and after the recent and nascent pent-up demand gets exhausted, there will again be a slowdown. To come back to a pre-COVID-19 scenario the economy will have to tackle lot of issues," said Neeraj Dhawan, director at Quantum Securities in New Delhi. The latest poll findings also resonate with widespread criticism of New Delhi's $266 billion economic rescue package, which does not contain new spending, tax breaks or cash support to revive demand and prevent firms from collapsing. "Although the government has provided some support to the economy by announcing a fiscal stimulus package, we believe more would be needed to get the economy back on track," said Ajit Mishra, vice-president of research at Religare Broking Ltd in New Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-306
27-08-2020||Business||Sensex tops 39,000 after 6 months||The Sensex closed above the 39000-mark for the first time in six months on Wednesday as equities extended their winning streak for the fourth straight session amid upbeat global cues. The BSE benchmark, which opened on a cautious note, touched a high of 39111.55 amid fag-end buying. It finally ended at 39073.92, up 230.04 points or 0.59 per cent. The Sensex had last closed above the 39000-level on February 27 this year. On similar lines, the NSE Nifty advanced 77.35 points or 0.67 per cent to finish at 11549.60. IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying 5.93 per cent, followed by Reliance Industries, Axis Bank, Kotak Bank, Bajaj Auto and HCL Tech. Market heavyweight RIL contributed to over half of the index’s gains. Global markets were on the upswing ahead of a key speech by US Federal Reserve chairman Jerome Powell at the Jackson Hole symposium. “Volumes on the NSE were in line with the recent average, with auto stocks (on hopes of a GST cut on two-wheelers), banks and media stocks doing well, while pharma and FMCG stocks were dull. Midcap and smallcap indices rose for the 8th consecutive session — the longest such streak since January 2020,” said Deepak Jasani, head of retail research, HDFC Securities. In the rest of Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Seoul ended with gains, while Shanghai and Tokyo closed lower. In Europe, stock exchanges in Paris and Frankfurt were trading on a positive note in early deals, while London witnessed losses. Brent crude was trading 0.13 per cent higher at $46.23 per barrel. The rupee pared some of its early gains to settle 3 paise higher at 74.30 against the dollar on Wednesday supported by positive domestic equities and sustained foreign fund inflows. Volatility guard Sebi on Wednesday said measures to deal with market volatility will be in place till September 24 after reviewing the pandemic-related situation. In March, Sebi had come out with various measures, including revision of market wide position limit, to ensure orderly trading and settlement. “The Indian rupee ended flat on Wednesday against the US dollar for the second straight day as markets turned cautious ahead of the Fed speech from Jerome Powell tomorrow,” said Sriram Iyer, senior research analyst, Reliance Securities. Iyer said market sentiments remain upbeat supported by optimism surrounding the US-China trade deal and foreign fund inflows into the domestic equity markets. However, appreciation was limited due to likely intervention by the central bank in the spot and forwards market to counter the impact of dollar portfolio inflows, he said. Meanwhile, the dollar index, which gauges the greenback's strength against a basket of six currencies, advanced 0.06 per cent to 93.07.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-306
