28-08-2020||Business||Fed ups inflation goal ||The Federal Reserve on Thursday rolled out a sweeping rewrite of its approach to monetary policy, putting new weight on bolstering the US labour market and less on worries about too-high inflation. The Fed’s new monetary policy strategy, unveiled at the start of an annual central banking conference, pledges to address “shortfalls” from the “broad-based and inclusive goal” of full employment, a nod to racial equity and its role in promoting economic growth. The US central bank also promises to seek to achieve inflation that averages 2 per cent over time, offsetting periods when it is running below that level with periods when it is moderately higher. The change suggests the Fed’s key overnight interest rate, already near zero, will stay there for potentially years to come as policymakers woo higher inflation. The policy shift is arguably the biggest for the Fed since Paul Volcker remade the central bank into an inflation-slaying force four decades ago, when prices were spiraling higher. Fed Chair Jerome Powell’s new policy blueprint, designed for a world where weak inflation, low interest rates, and slow economic growth appear to be here to stay, puts the labour market front and center. The changes acknowledge that “downward risks to employment and inflation have increased”. All 17 Fed policymakers signed on to the new strategy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-305
28-08-2020||Business||Honda all Jazz-ed up for BS-VI||Honda Cars India Ltd (HCIL) is betting big on its new BS-VI Jazz to lure first time buyers. While car makers are launching SUVs to revive a market that is on a tailspin, Honda is relying on its premium hatchback to tap first time buyers. “The Jazz was up for a model changeover with the BS-VI regimen kicking in. We were caught up in the midst of a BS-VI change when the lockdown happened. So, we launched the BS-VI Jazz now and are hoping that it will attract first-time buyers as past sales data shows that 22 per cent of the Jazz buyers were first-time car buyers,” said Rajesh Goel, senior vice-president and director, sales and marketing, HCIL. The premium hatch is priced at Rs 7.5 lakh (base model). “The customers are a mix of young and old people. About 95 per cent of the Jazz buyers opted for the petrol model (under the BS-IV regime), 32 per cent of the buyers are women and for 45 per cent of the buyers, the Jazz was an additional car,” said Goel. The Japanese manufacturer is offering the electric sunroof in its top range of Jazz, which is a first in the segment and hopes that it will pull customers in the Covid era. “People are scared of closed space in these Covid times The sunroof is a much sought after feature in cars for Indian customers. We are hoping that in such times, the sunroof will pull even more customers,” said Goel. Honda Motorcycles and Scooters India Pvt Limited made an entry into the 180-200cc category of motorbikes with the launch of the Hornet 2.0. The Japanese company is going in for a big portfolio expansion before the festive season with new models in new segments, Atsushi Ogata, managing director, president and CEO of HMSI, said at the launch of the Hornet on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-305
28-08-2020||Business||Tata sons to go digital||Tata Sons Private Limited (Tata Sons), the principal holding company of the over $110-billion Tata group, on Thursday held its annual general meeting where the conglomerate’s emerging digital strategy was one of the key themes that was discussed. The meeting comes at a time most of the group companies are feeling the heat of the Covid-19 pandemic. Close to 66 per cent of Tata Sons is held by Tata Trusts. While Tata Sons officials did not comment on what transpired at the meeting, it is understood that the group’s emerging digital strategy was one of the key issues that was discussed. The group is set to launch a ‘super app’ that reportedly combines various services and products offered (by its firms) under a single umbrella which includes consumer durables, food and grocery and financial services, among others. The key objective of this major digital effort is to offer products and services of all its consumer facing business apart from other online services on a single platform. In doing so, the conglomerate will take on Reliance Industries and Amazon Inc. The platform may be launched in December or early next year. The group has the fashion shopping app Tata Cliq and StarQuik, on which customers in Mumbai, Pune and Bangalore can order groceries. Croma is its online electronics platform. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, e-commerce sites have reported a spike in customer orders. Earlier this month, N. Chandrasekaran, chairman of Tata Sons, had said that while every pandemic presents a big opportunity of change for the better, Covid-19 can be a catalyst towards the adoption of digital technologies in segments like health and education.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-305
28-08-2020||Business||Consensus challenge in debt recast||Lenders may face the challenge of building a consensus over the restructuring of advances that the RBI has permitted as part of the resolution framework for Covid-19 related stress. Some bankers anticipate that lenders with smaller exposure may opt out of the scheme instead of signing the inter-creditor agreement (ICA) that will kickstart the restructuring of the advances. The RBI in its August 6, 2020 framework on restructuring of advances has said that if there are multiple lending institutions with exposure to a borrower, the resolution process shall be treated as invoked in respect of any borrower if lending institutions representing 75 per cent by value of the total outstanding credit facilities and not less than 60 per cent of the lending institutions by number come to an agreement. If an ICA is not signed within 30 days from the invocation, it will be treated as lapsed and the resolution cannot be triggered again under this framework for the account. “Our experience is that getting these numbers and subsequently signing the ICA is a big challenge and banks with a smaller share may try to exit,” Partha Pratim Sengupta, MD and CEO of Indian Overseas Bank, said at a CII organised session on Wednesday. “But banks need to revisit their plans. They need to have one aim to support the corporates where they have already taken exposure and where the accounts are viable,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-305
28-08-2020||Business||Stay on Anil insolvency action||The Delhi high court has put on hold the insolvency resolution process (IRP) launched by SBI against Reliance Communications (R-Com) chairman Anil Ambani seeking the enforcement of a Rs 1,200-crore personal guarantee of Anil Ambani. The Ambani scion has also been restrained from selling or transferring his personal assets. The stay has implications for the AGR dues case currently before the apex court which has reserved its judgment. Anil Ambani had given personal guarantees for the Rs 565 crore and Rs 635 crore SBI loans to R-Com and Reliance Infratel (RITL), respectively, in August 2016. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar also issued a notice to the Centre, the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (IBBI) and SBI seeking their stand on the plea by October 6, the next date of hearing. The court also said that the proceedings would continue in relation to the corporate debtor (the companies), and while dealing with those proceedings, the liability of the petitioner-personal guarantor (Ambani) may also be examined by the IRP. The Supreme Court on Thursday said it would examine whether the assets of a company which have been attached by the authorities following legal proceedings can be considered for liquidation to settle financial liabilities. A bench of Justices U.U. Lalit and Vineet Saran was informed by advocate C.S. Vaidyanathan, appearing for Vijay Mallya’s UBHL, that the company’s assets in totality are far greater than its liabilities. UBHL has challenged the March 6 order of the Karnataka high court upholding a wind-up order The finance ministry has asked public sector banks to monitor cases where insolvency proceedings could be initiated against individuals who are guarantors of corporate debtors that have defaulted on loans. The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) provides for a time-bound and market-linked resolution of stressed assets. The code also provides for initiation of insolvency proceedings against personal guarantors of corporate debtors, even though the provision has not been used much by lenders to recover dues. In an advisory, the department of financial services has asked public sector banks to consider putting in place a mechanism to monitor the cases which may require the initiation of individual insolvency process before the National Company Law Tribunal against personal guarantors to corporate debtors. Additional reporting by PTI in New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-305
28-08-2020||Business||Stocks pare gains, rupee up 48 paise||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty pared most of their intra-day gains to end marginally higher on Thursday as monthly derivative contracts expired amid lacklustre global cues. After touching a high of 39326.98 during the session, the BSE Sensex succumbed to selling pressure in the last hour of trade. It finally finished at 39113.47, up 39.55 points or 0.10 per cent. The NSE Nifty inched up 9.65 points or 0.08 per cent to close at 11559.25. The Sensex has now gained 893.08 points in five sessions, while the Nifty has climbed 247.05 points. IndusInd was the top gainer in the Sensex pack on Thursday, rallying 6.59 per cent The rupee vaulted 48 paise to end at 73.82 against the dollar on Thursday after RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said the central bank has not exhausted its ammunition to deal with the pandemic-induced stress. Sustained foreign fund inflows, positive domestic equities and a weak  dollar boosted the rupee, forex traders said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-305
28-08-2020||Business||Das raps banks for risk aversion||Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das on Thursday warned banks that being overly risk averse would be “self-defeating”, even as he said that the new debt restructuring scheme will provide more durable relief to borrowers affected by the pandemic. Das also disclosed that the central bank was not unwinding the Covid-19 steps now and that once the pandemic is contained, the measures will be unwound in an orderly manner. “Unwinding of the Covid-19 measures must be calibrated and cautious. We will have a non-disruptive exit plan for these steps,” the governor said, adding that the length and intensity of the pandemic is uncertain. The RBI governor was speaking at a webinar organised by a financial daily. Though the central bank has brought down the policy repo rate by 135 points since March, the fear of rising bad loans has prompted banks to be extremely selective in disbursing fresh loans and they are instead buying government securities despite a robust growth in deposit mobilisation. Latest data from the RBI show that for the fortnight ended July 31, bank credit was at 5.5 per cent, while the growth in aggregate deposits was 11 per cent. “Extreme risk aversion can be self-defeating, banks will not be able to win their bread,” Das said amid the sharp slowdown in credit growth in the system, which is essential to push up the economy. He told banks that remaining overly risk-averse may seem to be a measure of self-immunisation, but it will affect their bottomlines adversely. According to the RBI governor, rather than turning averse to lending, banks have to improve their risk management and governance frameworks and also build sufficient resilience. Besides, the risk propensity should be in alignment with the individual bank’s measured risk appetite. Further, the risk management system should be sophisticated enough to smell the vulnerabilities brewing within the various businesses well in advance. It should also be dynamic enough to capture the looming risks in sync with the changes in external environment and best practices. To enable borrowers to cope with Covid-19 challenges, the RBI had earlier announced a loan moratorium that will end this month. The central bank has now come up with a one-time restructuring scheme under which customers can also avail take a loan holiday. “While the moratorium on loans was a temporary solution in the context of the lockdown, the resolution framework is expected to give durable relief to borrowers facing Covid-related stress,” he said. Senior bankers across the country have taken umbrage against the RBI governor’s remarks of risk aversion. Soon after the governor spoke, Aditya Puri — MD & CEO of HDFC Bank — said, “There is no risk aversion but there is prudent banking. If we give money, we expect to get it back. If somebody gives loan now then someone can say later that it was imprudent lending,” he said. At another webinar, Punjab National Bank MD and CEO S.S. Mallikarjuna Rao said, “I can categorically say there is no risk aversion at all. The real problem is lack of demand.” “What we are doing is trying to get business from the right customers while ensuring we aren’t throwing good money after the bad money,” Axis Bank MD and CEO Amitabh Chaudhry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-305
