29-08-2020||Business||Ambani’s Reliance buys stake in Future Group for Rs 24,713cr||Billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries Ltd on Saturday announced the acquisition of Future Group businesses for Rs 24,713 crore to add to its fast-expanding retail business and bolster e-commerce capabilities to take on competition from Amazon.com. “Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd (RRVL), subsidiary of Reliance Industries Ltd, will acquire the retail and wholesale business and the logistics and warehousing business from the Future Group as going concerns on a slump sale basis for lumpsum aggregate consideration of INR 24,713 crore,” the company said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-304
29-08-2020||Business||Rupee at 6-month closing high||The rupee on Friday surged 43 paise to close at 73.39 against the dollar, its best closing level in nearly six months, buoyed by sustained foreign fund inflows and weaker greenback against key rivals. At the interbank forex market, the domestic unit opened on a flat note but soon gained strength and finally ended 43 paise higher at 73.39 against the American currency — the best closing level since March 5. During the day, the local unit touched an intra-day high of 73.29 and a low of 73.87. Also, this was the third consecutive day of gains for the rupee, during which it advanced 94 paise. On a weekly basis, the Indian currency appreciated 145 paise against the dollar. Foreign institutional investors were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,004.11 crore on Friday, according to exchange data. Meanwhile, the dollar index, which gauges the greenback’s strength against a basket of six currencies, fell 0.72 per cent to 92.33. Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, fell 0.33 per cent to $44.94 per barrel. A sharp appreciation has been witnessed in the rupee amid persistent portfolio inflows and as the domestic currency was eventually seen mirroring the decline in the dollar index, said Sugandha Sachdeva of Religare Broking.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-304
29-08-2020||Business||Ways to reduce friction||States can consider three options to enable them to tide themselves over the deficit caused by the shortfall in GST revenues. According to a report from the economic research wing of the SBI, one option is RBI monetising state debt. While the central bank does not invest  in state government loans either in primary issues or in the secondary market, the Centre can monetise the debt or the shortfall which can then be given to the states. “The RBI will also be comfortable in dealing with the Centre rather than the close to 30 sub-national entities’’, the report added. The second measure could be more relaxation in ways and means advances (WMA) where the RBI provides temporary loan facilities to states for a tenure of 90 days to enable them to meet mismatches in their payments and receipts. In April, the RBI had increased the WMA limit to Rs 51,560 crore which was 60 per cent over and above the level as on March 31, 2020. This increased limit will be available till September 30 this year. The third option is recourse to NSSF. The Centre has set up the NSSF to provide an autonomous source of finance to the governments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-304
29-08-2020||Business||Dinesh Khara to lead SBI||The Banks Board Bureau (BBB) on Friday recommended Dinesh Kumar Khara as the next chairman of State Bank of India (SBI). At present, Khara is the managing director of the country’s largest lender in charge of global banking and subsidiaries. He will replace Rajnish Kumar whose tenure will end on October 7. The ball is now in the appointments committee of the cabinet which will have to give its green signal. In a statement, the bureau said that it interfaced with four managing directors of the bank —Arijit Basu, C. S. Setty, Ashwani Bhatia and Khara. Incidentally, earlier this week, Bhatia was elevated as the managing director. Khara is the senior most managing director at SBI. He applied for the chairman’s post for the second time. In 2017, he was among the four contenders for the post to replace Arundhati Bhattacharya. While there was buzz of Rajnish Kumar getting a one-year extension, the bureau’s decision will mean that he will demit office in October. The head hunter for state-owned banks and financial institutions added that it has also recommended Setty as the candidate on the “reserve list” for the vacancy. BBB is headed by former secretary in the department of personnel and training  Bhanu Pratap Sharma. Khara, did his masters in Business Administration from FMS New Delhi and is a post-graduate in commerce. He joined SBI as a probationary officer in 1984 and has experience in all areas of commercial banking, including corporate and SME credit, international banking operations and retail credit. He was also a key figure behind the merging five associate banks and Bhartiya Mahila Bank with SBI. Khara’s selection is now a formality and  he is the second high-profile bank appointment this month after Sashidhar Jagdishan, who was picked as the next managing director and CEO of HDFC Bank. He will replace Aditya Puri who is due to retire on October 26. Both these bank heads will have the task cut out for them to not only contain a spike in bad loans during the second half of this fiscal but also kickstart credit growth which has taken a hit because of the risk aversion among banks. On Thursday, Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das criticised banks for being excessively risk averse, saying this approach was “self-defeating” and  the lenders will not be able to win their bread. For the first quarter ended June 30, bad loans at SBI in absolute terms stood at Rs 1,29,661 crore, lower than Rs 1,49,092 crore in the preceding three months while the percentage of gross NPAs also fell to 5.44 per cent. However, it is feared that once the relaxation given by the RBI on recognition of bad loans ends, banks may see a rise in their NPAs. Khara will also have to look at boosting the bank’s credit growth which stood at 6.58 per cent during the first quarter of this fiscal. At the same time, he may also have to contend with an aggressive Jagdishan who is set to increase the private sector bank’s footprint in the rural and semi-urban areas of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-304
29-08-2020||Business||Moratorium extension plea at Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday decided to hear a fresh plea seeking an extension of the loan moratorium scheme till the end of December. The scheme, which was devised to help borrowers tide over the crisis precipitated by the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, is due to end on Monday (August 31). Borrowers had been permitted to defer loan repayments for a period of six months. The court is currently hearing a petition challenging the levy of interest during the moratorium period — which became a contentious after the RBI issued a notification that made no mention of an interest waiver while granting the moratorium. A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, in a hearing conducted through video conferencing, ordered tagging of the fresh plea filed by lawyer Vishal Tiwari with the earlier pending petition on the issue. The RBI had come out with the notification in March after the nation-wide lockdown was imposed to curb the spread of the pandemic and had given the facility of deferred payment of instalments to borrowers and now the scheme is ending on August 31. The lawyer told the bench, which also comprised Justices R. Subhash Reddy and M. R. Shah, that the adverse impact of the pandemic over the financial situation was still there and, hence, the moratorium scheme needed to be extended further till year-end. Now, the plea will be heard alongside the one filed by Agra resident Gajendra Sharma, which is scheduled for hearing on September 1. On August 26, the apex court had heard Sharma’s plea and had observed that the Centre was “hiding behind the RBI” and had asked it to reply within a week on the issue of interest being charged on instalments which have been deferred under the central bank’s scheme during the moratorium period amid Covid-19 lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-304
29-08-2020||Business||Birla Tyres to raise Rs 1100cr||The board of Birla Tyres has approved raising up to Rs 1,100 crore through a mix of equity and debt to infuse much needed liquidity to save the business. The company is going through a bumpy ride in part because of a drop in demand for tyres during the Covid-19 pandemic and also because it does not have enough cash to run its operations efficiently. Birla Tyres is now a separate listed entity following a demerger from Kesoram Industries — the flagship of Basant K Birla group. Though the company has a net liability of Rs 928.53 crore as on June 30, 2020, and has defaulted on loan liabilities, the management may consider arranging fresh debt to stabilise it. “The priority is to infuse liquidity and operate the business efficiently. We are unable to do so now. Balancing between debt and equity can always be looked at later,” an official of the BK Birla group, said. A committee of the board has been constituted to explore the modalities of fund raising, which may include a rights issue or non-convertible debenture. The fund raising decision comes after years of unsuccessful attempts to rope in an overseas investor to jumpstart the business. Intermittent talks have happened with a manufacturer from Europe and China. Birla Tyres makes tyres for two- and three-wheelers, commercial vehicles, tractors and mining and industrial vehicles. The company is not present in the lucrative passenger car segment. A project to build such a facility has remained unfinished because of want of cash for years. According to the last account, the company still needs Rs 700 crore to complete the project. The proposed liquidity injection would mainly focus on funding day-to-day operations of the plant at Balasore, Odisha. A scan through of the past three quarters of revenue generation may explain why the management is not averse to debt, despite failing to meet debt obligations of Rs 130.64 crore in the first quarter  and Rs 146.06 crore in the fourth quarter of the last fiscal. Revenue from operation slid to Rs 28.80 crore in the first quarter from Rs 81.28 crore revenue in the third quarter of the last fiscal. It posted a net loss of Rs 88.57 crore in the last quarter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-304
29-08-2020||Business||Business ease claims in tatters||The Modi government’s spiel about why India was an attractive destination for FDI lay in shreds with the World Bank pausing publication of its “Doing Business” report to probe data collection irregularities. The World Bank said in a statement that it would conduct a systematic review of data changes in the last five Doing Business reports, and independent auditors will probe data collection and review processes. According to the “Doing Business” 2020 report, India had jumped 14 places to the 63rd position on the ease of doing business ranking. India has improved its rank by 79 positions in five years (2014-19), with the government targeting a top-50 position in the coveted list by this year. “This is the third year in a row that India has made it to the top 10 (improvers) in doing business, a success that very few countries have done over the 20 years of the project,” Simeon Djankov, director of development economics at the World Bank, had said last year of India’s sharp jump. “The publication of the Doing Business report will be paused as we conduct our assessment,” the bank said. The Doing Business report has long been controversial because it ranks countries based on indicators of how their government bureaucracies and regulations affect —and often limit — their attractiveness as destinations for business investment. It came under fire in early 2018 when the World Bank’s then-chief economist, Paul Romer, said methodological changes to the report may have been biased against Chile’s socialist president at the time, Michelle Bachelet. The report published in 2017 dropped Chile to 55th from 34th in 2014, when Bachelet took office. Romer resigned over the controversy, in which he said in a Wall Street Journal interview that the report "conveyed the wrong impression" about Chile's business environment under Bachelet. The World Bank said on Thursday there were “a number of irregularities” reported regarding data changes to the Doing Business reports published in 2017 and 2019, but did not identify them. “The changes in the data were inconsistent with the Doing Business methodology,” the bank said, adding that it would “correct the data of countries that were most affected by the irregularities.” The most recent Doing Business report published in October 2019 (for 2020), showed that West Asian countries sharply improved their rankings, with Saudi Arabia climbing 30 places to rank 62nd and Jordan jumping 29 places to 75th. New Zealand was ranked highest for the fourth year in a row, followed by perennial high-rankers Singapore and Hong Kong.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-304
29-08-2020||Business||Kerala, Punjab and Delhi reject GST payout options||Opposition-ruled states appear to be hardening their stand against the Centre as the row over the payment of GST compensation threatens to rip the fabric of India’s federal polity. Punjab, Kerala and Delhi have spurned the two unpalatable choices that finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman placed on the table on Thursday — both of which require the states to borrow up to 40 per cent of their anticipated Rs 3 lakh crore shortfall in GST collections this year from a special window to be created by the Reserve Bank of India. Former finance minister P. Chidmabaram of the Congress said the states should reject both the options. “The latest assault on the states is part of an elaborate design of the Modi government to financially cripple the states and reduce them to beg for money from the Centre,” he tweeted. The three states chose not to wait for the letter outlining the two options that Sitharaman had promised to send on Thursday but still hasn’t as the Centre works over the fine print that the states are expected to pore over the next seven days before deciding their course of action. Punjab finance minister Manpreet Badal said the state had decided to reject both options. Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac also told a news channel that neither option was acceptable. Delhi deputy chief minister and finance minister Manish Sisodia said: “The states are feeling cheated right now.” Sitharaman placed two borrowing options before the states. First, they could borrow a sum of Rs 97,000  crore — the sum that the Centre through some opaque process determined as the uncovered amount arising from the implementation of the GST — at a reasonable rate of interest. Most states do not have a borrowing headroom which is why the Centre offered to raise the limit set under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budgetary Management (FRBM) Act by 0.5 per cent of their gross state domestic product(GSDP). The second option was to borrow the entire Rs 2.35 lakh crore shortfall, including Rs 1,38,000 crore ascribed to Covid-19 factors, and therefore outside the purview of the GST obligations, through the same special window. The principal and the interest in either option can be repaid after 2022 when the five-year tenure for the compensation cess is supposed to end but there is a possibility that this might be extended. Meanwhile, legal experts said the Centre cannot force the states to borrow to cover the shortfall in compensation cess collections. “The central government cannot instruct states to borrow. At the same time, the Centre is under no obligation to pay any sum in excess of what is collected through the cess,” says Pradeep Kumar Jain of Singhania & Co. Shareen Gupta of  J. Sagar Associates said much the same thing. “There is no doubt that states are entitled to compensation from the Centre for the loss of revenue on account of implementing GST. Given the unprecedented crisis, the options appear to be a step towards achieving a resolution with limited resources at hand. The states and the Centre, therefore, have the stupendous task of arriving at a middle ground.”
 to manage the financial situation of the country.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-304
