30-08-2020||Business||Drug firm Wockhardt reports Rs 760 crore profit||Drug firm Wockhardt on Saturday reported a consolidated net profit of Rs 760 crore for the June quarter, mainly on account of exceptional items in connection with the transfer of a business comprising 62 products and the Baddi facility to Dr Reddy’s Laboratories. The company had suffered a net loss of Rs 36.88 crore for April-June 2019-20, Wockhardt said in a filing to the BSE. Total income stood at Rs 606 crore during the quarter under review. It was Rs 734 crore in the year-ago period, the filing added. Wockhardt launched a chemical entity (NCE) during the quarter in the Indian pharma market. Products have been launched under the tablet and injection category under the brand name “Emrock O and Emrock”, the filing said. The focus on strategic R&D initiatives of the company in the global arena continued to remain one of the key priorities, it added. The divestment of business undertakings to Dr Reddy’s Laboratories was accomplished during the quarter and the company received Rs 1,483 crore as part of the deal. “Rs 43 crore out of the Rs 67 crore deposited by the purchaser in an escrow account, towards adjustments for, inter alia, net working capital, employee liabilities and certain other contractual and statutory liabilities etc has since been settled and received,” it added. Suzlon Energy on Saturday reported the widening of its consolidated net loss to Rs 398.86 crore in the April-June quarter compared with a net loss of Rs 336.88 crore in the year-ago period mainly because of lower revenues.The total consolidated income of the company declined to Rs 528.22 crore in the quarter under review from Rs 851.09 crore in the same period last year. On the Covid-19 situation in the country, the company stated that the group’s ability to generate sufficient cash flows to meet its financial obligations in the foreseeable future could be impacted by the circumstances arising from the pandemic. Suzlon Energy chief operating officer V. R. Tanti said the pandemic and the implementation of the debt restructuring, which was completed on June 30, 2020, impacted the wind turbine generator business in the first quarter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-303
30-08-2020||Business||NMDC approves demerger of Chhattisgarh steel plant||The board of directors of  NMDC Ltd has approved the demerger of its upcoming three-million-tonne steel plant in Chhattisgarh, the PSU has said. “The board of directors of the company at its meeting held on Thursday, August 27, 2020, inter-alia, have accorded an in-principle approval to the proposal to demerge its NMDC Iron and Steel Plant (NISP), Nagarnar, Chhattisgarh,” NMDC said in a filing. Recently, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel had urged the Centre not to privatise the greenfield steel plant. NMDC officials had earlier said the plant is likely to be commissioned next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-303
30-08-2020||Business||Adani Ports pledge shares to raise Rs 430 crore||The promoters of Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone (APSEZ) have pledged 206.09 lakh shares of the company in favour of Credit Suisse AG to raise Rs 430 crore for a group company, according to a regulatory filing. The shares were held by Gautam S. Adani and Rajesh S. Adani on behalf of SB Adani Family Trust and it comprised 1.01 per cent of the APSEZ share capital. In a separate filing, APSEZ informed the bourses that the pledge was against the security for the borrowing by Adani Rail Infra Pvt Ltd amounting to Rs 430 crore. The value of shares being encumbered amounted to over Rs 742.03 crore. According to the shareholding data of the company, for the period ended June 30, the promoters held 63.57 per cent. Of this, over 37 crore shares, or 28.70 per cent, were pledged or encumbered. Earlier this week, the same promoters had released a pledge on 78,000 shares of APSEZ. The pledge was removed from JM Financial Credit Solutions Ltd and JM Financial Products Ltd. The SB Adani Family Trust holds a 39.34 per cent stake in APSEZ. APSEZ is the largest commercial ports operator in India. According to its website, it accounts for nearly one-fourth of the cargo movement in the country apart from having integrated services across ports, logistics and special economic zones (SEZ). It has a presence across 10 domestic ports in six maritime states — Gujarat, Goa, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Odisha. Its assets include the Mundra Economic Hub, which spans over 8,000 hectares and it offers investment options as the largest multi-product SEZ, free trade and warehousing zone and domestic industrial zone. During the first quarter ended June 30, APSEZ saw its net profit dropping to Rs 758 crore from Rs 1,029 crore in the same period of the previous year. This came after its topline fell to Rs 2,293 crore from Rs 2,794 crore in the year-ago quarter as cargo throughput declined 27 per cent during the nationwide lockdown. The company said during the period, Mundra port became the largest container handling port in India  by handling 0.97 million twenty-foot equivalent units. The pledge comes at a time when there are reports of the group engaged in talks to buy out GVK and some of its partners in the Mumbai airport as it set sight to become India's biggest private airport operator. PTI recently reported that the group is in talks to acquire a 50.5 per cent stake held by GVK Group in Mumbai International Airport (MIAL) and another 23.5 per cent of minority partners, Airports Company South Africa (ACSA), and Bidvest Group. The Adani group had in March 2019 agreed to acquire 13.5 per cent stake of South African company, Bidvest for over Rs 1200 crore. However, the GVK Group blocked the deal claiming the right of first refusal. But it could not buy Bidvest stake and the matter went to court. The Adani group which is betting big on the airports sector has won the bids to run six Airport Authority-built non-metro airports in Lucknow, Jaipur, Guwahati, Ahmedabad, Thiruvananthapuram, and Mangalore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-303
30-08-2020||Business||Consumers to pay for government’s GST mess||Consumers of luxury cars, cigarettes and colas will have to bear the cost of the GST mess. That is the message that went out on Saturday after the Centre came out with a detailed note explaining the two disagreeable options that were foisted on the states at Thursday’s GST Council meeting without prior discussion. The states have been pressing the Centre for payment for the shortfall in tax collections under the goods and services tax (GST) regime, which is expected to balloon to Rs 3 lakh crore this year. This shortfall ought to have been covered by the cess on demerit goods that runs till June 2022. The promise of compensation was the clinching factor that had driven the consensus on GST, which the Narendra Modi government is now trying to wriggle out of. In its note, the Centre said: “The compensation cess will be continued after the transition period until such times as all arrears of compensation for the transition period are paid to the states. “The only practical way forward is... by borrowing and then repaying the borrowing by extension of the cess beyond the fifth year.” The government expects to collect only Rs 65,000 crore under the compensation cess this year, which leaves a huge uncovered sum of Rs 2.35 lakh crore. The Centre, which carved this sum into two components, one of Rs 97,000 crore that it attributed to the “implementation of GST” and the other of Rs 1.38 lakh crore that it ascribed to pandemic-related factors, has refused to borrow on its books to meet these claims. It has argued that the Rs 1.38-lakh-crore component does not qualify for the compensation protection mechanism under the GST regime since it has arisen because of an unanticipated “exogenous” factor. Instead, it has given the states two options: borrow Rs 97,000 crore from a special window to be created by the Reserve Bank of India or borrow the entire uncovered sum of Rs 2.35 lakh crore. The government has given the states seven days to decide which option they would prefer while the states have indicated their opposition to what they see as a preposterous idea. The government said it would schedule a secretary-level meeting on Tuesday (September 1) where they could seek clarifications on the government’s proposal. The Centre has tried to sweeten its offer by saying that it would endeavour to keep the cost of borrowing at — or close to — the yield on the government security of relevant maturity. If this cost is higher, it has promised to pay a subsidy to bear the cost of the margin between the government security (G-Sec) and the state development loan yields to the extent of 0.5 per cent. The Centre said the borrowing under the special window will not be treated as a debt of the state under any norms that may be prescribed by the Finance Commission, which is currently preparing a report on the new formula that will govern Centre-state fund devolution from April 1 next year till the end of March 2026. The final report is to be submitted on October 30. The note said the interest on the borrowing under the special window would be paid out of the cess proceeds as and when it arises until the end of the transition period, which is June 2022. “After the transition period, the principal and the interest will also be paid from the proceeds of the cess,” the note said. The problem will arise for the states if they choose the second option and decide to borrow the entire shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore. The note said the entire amount would have to be raised as market debt and only the principal sum would be paid out of the proceeds of the cess. The states will have to pay the interest out of their own proceeds. But even in this case, the cess will be extended beyond June 2022 — which means the consumers will bear the burden. “The first charge on the future cess would be the principal repayment. The remaining arrears of compensation accrued during the transition period would be paid after the principal is paid,” the note said. The note marks a significant variance from what finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had told reporters after the GST Council meeting. While talking about the second option, she had said: “We shall facilitate a discussion with the RBI and get the loan at a G-sec linked rate for all states so that each state doesn’t have to face different situations.” She had assured all the states that they would be able to secure the loans at roughly the same interest rate, which now looks decidedly dicey. The Centre came up with a long-winded justification of why it would not borrow from the RBI and then pass on the proceeds to the states. “The question arises of who should borrow,” the note said. “The notion of borrowing by the GST Council is not practically or legally feasible or desirable. This leaves the options of central or state borrowing.” The note said that the Centre had a “very large borrowing requirement this year” and any additional borrowing on account of the GST compensation payment would “influence the yields on the government securities” and have other macro-economic repercussions. In May, the Centre suddenly jacked up its gross borrowing for this year by 53 per cent to Rs 12 lakh crore from a budgeted Rs 7.8 lakh crore in order to meet the costs of an economic stimulus response to the pandemic. That did not impact the G-Sec yields. The benchmark 10-year G-Sec yield is currently hovering at just over 6 per cent, sharply down from an average 6.7 per cent in 2019-20 and 7.7 per cent in 2018-19 as quoted in the RBI’s recent annual report. This down drift in G-Sec yields has largely been possible because of the shift in the RBI’s monetary stance to an accommodative policy, leading to a surplus liquidity in the financial system rather than to any policy initiative by the Modi government. “The yield on G-Secs acts as a benchmark for state borrowing as well as private-sector borrowing. Hence any rise in central borrowing costs ipso facto drives up borrowing costs for all borrowers, including not only the states but also the entire private sector,” the note said. “On the other hand, the yields on state government securities do not directly influence other yields and do not have the same type of macroeconomic repercussions. Hence, it is in the collective interest of (the) Centre and (the) states, and in the interest of the nation and of all economic entities including the private sector, not to do any avoidable borrowing at the central level when it could be done at the state level.” Care Ratings said in a research note: “So far in the current fiscal year, 26 states and one Union Territory have cumulatively raised Rs.2.70 lakh crore via market borrowings, which is a 53 per cent increase from the borrowings in the corresponding period of 2019-20 (Rs 1.76 lakh crore from April 9-Aug 27, 2019). As per the proposed market borrowings calendar, the state government borrowings in the first half of 2020-21 at Rs 3.45 lakh crore are likely to be 53 per cent more than that in the corresponding period of 2019-20.” The yield on the 10-year state development loans (SDLs) has risen 24 basis points so far in August, to a range of 6.66-6.68 per cent. Yields on the three-year SDLs have jumped 35 basis points to 5.09 per cent this month. This is expected to go up further if the states pick the second option. In the past two weeks, the benchmark 10-year government bond yield had hardened to a six-month high of 6.22 per cent from 5.8 per cent but cooled to a 6.10-6.15 per cent level after the RBI on Monday announced two open market operations (OMOs). If the yield on the state loans rise — as they probably will — the subsidy of 0.5 per cent that is being offered will not be enough to cover the full amount, raising the interest payment burden for the states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-304
30-08-2020||Business||Reliance buys Future brands||Mukesh Ambani on Saturday tightened his grip on India’s organised retail sector by acquiring the retail and wholesale business and the logistics and warehousing division from Future Group for a lumpsum consideration of Rs 24,713 crore. The acquisition, which has been in the works for quite some time, will bring retail formats such as Big Bazaar, fbb, Foodhall, Easyday, Nilgiris, Central and Brand Factory within the Reliance fold.  The acquisition cost includes certain borrowings and current liabilities of Future Group. The estimated debt of Future Group was nearly Rs 13,000 crore as on September 30, 2019. The transaction will see Reliance Retail and Fashion Lifestyle Ltd (RRFLL), a subsidiary of Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd (RRVL), acquiring 6.09 per cent of the post merger equity of Future Enterprises Ltd (FEL) and investing another Rs 400 crore in preferential issue of equity warrants, which after conversion will see its stake going up by another 7.05 per cent in the company. RRVL is a wholly owned subsidiary of Reliance Industries. To begin with, the Future Group is merging close to five companies carrying the formats or the businesses that will go into the Reliance fold into Future Enterprises. The retail and wholesale undertaking of Future Group is being transferred to RRFLL, while the logistics & warehousing undertaking will go to RRVL. A Future Group statement said after this transaction, FEL will retain the manufacturing and distribution of FMCG goods and the integrated fashion sourcing and manufacturing business and its joint ventures with Generali and NTC Mills. “With this transaction, we are pleased to provide a home to the renowned formats and brands of Future Group as well as preserve its business ecosystem, which have played an important role in the evolution of modern retail in India,’’ said Isha Ambani, director of RRVL. “As a result of this reorganisation, Future Group will achieve a holistic solution to the challenges that have been caused by Covid and the macro economic environment. “This transaction takes into account the interest of all its stakeholders, including lenders, shareholders, creditors, suppliers and employees. We are pleased that our strong retail franchise and brands, that we have created over time, are going into stronger hands and will continue to grow and delight Indian shoppers,’’ Kishore Biyani, group CEO of Future Group, said. He feels after the transaction, FEL will emerge stronger as its manufacturing and distribution of FMCG products and integrated fashion sourcing and merchandising will benefit from supply agreements with RRFLL. This deal, Biyani observed, will also enable FEL to focus on the creation of new age fashion brands apart from having a stronger balancesheet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-304
