31-08-2020||Business||GDP shrinks 23.9 %, sharpest drop ever||India's GDP shrank by the steepest ever 23.9 per cent in the April-June period as the coronavirus lockdowns battered an already slowing economy, official data showed on Monday.

Agriculture was the only outlier as all other sectors, including manufacturing, construction and services, suffered steep declines.

India's economy had grown by 5.2 per cent in the same quarter of last fiscal, as per the data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO).

The government had imposed a nationwide lockdown from March 25, 2020 to curb the spread of COVID-19 infections which adversely impacted all sectors of the economy.

According to the data, gross value added (GVA) growth in the manufacturing sector contracted by 39.3 per cent in the first quarter of 2020-21, from 3 per cent expansion a year ago.

However, farm sector GVA grew at 3.4 per cent, compared to 3 per cent in the corresponding period of 2019-20.

Construction sector GVA contracted by a whopping 50.3 per cent from 5.2 per cent expansion earlier. Mining sector output declined at 23.3 per cent, as against a growth of 4.7 per cent a year ago.

Electricity, gas, water supply and other utility services segment too shrank by 7 per cent in the first quarter of 2020-21, against 8.8 per cent growth a year ago.

Similarly, trade, hotel, transport, communication and services related to broadcasting declined 47 per cent in the first quarter from 3.5 per cent growth earlier.

Financial, real estate and professional services fell by 5.3 per cent in Q1 FY21 from 6 per cent growth in same period last fiscal.

Public administration, defence and other services too saw a decline of 10.3 per cent during the quarter under review, from 7.7 per cent growth a year earlier.

"GDP at Constant (2011-12) Prices in Q1 of 2020-21 is estimated at Rs 26.90 lakh crore, as against Rs 35.35 lakh crore in Q1 of 2019-20, showing a contraction of 23.9 per cent compared to 5.2 per cent growth in Q1 2019-20," the NSO said in a statement.

"With a view to contain spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, restrictions were imposed on the economic activities not deemed essential, as also on the movement of people from 25 March, 2020.

"Though the restrictions have been gradually lifted, there has been an impact on the economic activities as well as on the data collection mechanisms," it added.

It also said the timelines for filing statutory returns were extended by most regulatory bodies.

"In these circumstances, the usual data sources were substituted by alternatives like GST, interactions with professional bodies etc. and which were clearly limited," it said.

The Centre began easing the lockdown for certain economic activities from April 20 onwards.

Most rating agencies had projected contraction in India's GDP for the first quarter of 2020-21.

China's economy grew by 3.2 per cent in April-June after recording a decline of 6.8 per cent in January-March 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-302
31-08-2020||Business||Too little for later||Dear Investor, This letter comes to you at a juncture when a crisis is unfolding right before your eyes. Whether you like it or not, one of the biggest drawdowns in recent times is being played out. The reference is not to standing armies or nuclear arsenals but to the withdrawals from the average retirement kitty. The reason: Covid-19 and the resulting economic paralysis, supply disruptions, business closures and pay cuts. A lot of people who have painstakingly nurtured their retirement nest-eggs for years, are being forced to dip into this very corpus. Worse, however, is the realisation that they will have to make do with much less once they reach the retirement age. Yes, the situation is very challenging. The gap between the resources you will require in your retired years and the money that you have actually saved for the same is increasing. The gap, a dreaded one even in advanced nations where social security is more than a mere buzzword, is likely to be wider if this crisis persists. For a country such as India, where poverty is rife, the consequences are more severe. Remember, our retail inflation numbers have lately advanced, a trend that gets captured adequately in the prices of everyday goods and services. The July figure is close to 7 per cent. For the record, the annual interest that is being generally offered by most of the popular banks is approximately 5.5 per cent. And that clearly falls short of inflation. A common product like detergent worth Rs 100 will cost Rs 107 next year, assuming inflation stays constant at 7 per cent. However, at the current rate, your deposit of Rs 100 with a local bank will merely become Rs 105.50 next year. The imbalance is apparent; the earning versus expenditure battle becomes difficult for you by the minute. When a drawdown is imminent, the following pointers can be considered: However, an added focus on debt may potentially slow down your portfolio. Traditional debt instruments (which offer somewhat predictable returns) are low-yielding when compared to their equity counterparts; the latter, despite all the risk can act be powerhouses. Here’s a list of to-do’s for you: The last word in a stern letter like this can be forbidding too. You need to save and invest as much as possible while you are still working. If you haven’t done it, or if you have ignored the need to build your own pension scheme, adverse conditions in the market will leave you panting for air. Resorting to drawdowns in normal circumstances is bad in itself — the “new normal” led by Covid-19 and marked by serious challenges will be a lot worse. So expect less from your allocations, pare your assumptions, learn to live with limited resources. You will still need to pay taxes, remember. Your retired life may be a long one, thanks to advanced medical science. Imagine living in retirement for two whole decades or more. Living a healthy life after 65 is often an enormous challenge. Staying close to liquid assets is an easy solution, but chances are there will be a lot of sacrifices. However, with some careful planning and financial discipline you can give yourself a comfortable old age. Take care. Yours sincerely... The writer is director, Wishlist Capital Advisors||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-302
31-08-2020||Business||Harley Davidson soldiers on in India||Its business as usual at Harley Davidson India. As of now, the company continues to manufacture at its Bawal factory and 30 of its 33 dealers in India are functional, said a company source. “July sales were encouraging and August sales will be even better and the company has a 54 per cent market share in July 2020 in the 750 cc and above motorcycle segment,” he added. The company sold 130 units in July recovering from 86 units in June 2020, however, it is yet to reach  pre-Covid figures of 210 units sold in January 2020 or 185 units in February. Speculation is rife that following American auto giants General Motors and Ford, another American iconic brand Harley Davidson is pulling out of the country following its global Rewire programme. A global Harley press release states: “Harley-Davidson plans to concentrate on approximately 50 markets primarily in North America, Europe and parts of Asia Pacific that represent the vast majority of the company’s volume and growth potential. The company is evaluating plans to exit international markets where volumes and profitability do not support continued investment.” Company chairman, president and CEO Jochen Zeitz said: “A total rewire is necessary to make Harley-Davidson a high-performance company. We’re overhauling our operating model and rewiring our market structure and organisation.  We are now working on our new 5-year strategic plan, The Hardwire, which will be grounded in enhancing the desirability of our brand and protecting the value of our iconic products.” The company source confirmed that the Rewire programme is “work in progress and hence the company cannot make any statement regarding its impact in India”. Meanwhile, marketing plans for the festive season are in progress though no launch is planned in the coming months. The last launch that the company had was the Low Rider S in the first month of the fiscal year, a cruiser bike with a price tag of Rs 13.75 lakh. Globally, the company is gearing up for the launch of its first adventure touring motorcycle Pan America 1250 in 2021 “but there is no word yet on it coming to India”. So also for Harley’s first electric bike LiveWire which was launched in 2019 in the US with expectations of it coming to other global markets in 2020. The bike was showcased here too in 2019. Harley’s lower dispensation bike programme Harley 350 will roll out in China with a Chinese partner QianJiang Motorcyle. There was talk of producing the 350 in India with an Indian partner, which did not materialise. The Baby Harley was planned to capture the Asian markets and there is no word yet on it coming to India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-302
31-08-2020||Business||No change in third-party cover||The premium rates for motor third-party liability insurance for 2020-21 remain unchanged from last year’s rate till further order, insurance regulator IRDAI has said. The rates for the ongoing fiscal could not be finalised because of the Covid-19 and consequential lockdown. Motor insurance comprises two parts — mandatory third party liability insurance and own damage insurance. The rates for the third-party liability insurance are fixed by the IRDAI after consultation with the stakeholders every year and taking into account the claims trend of the past year. Accordingly the regulator came out with the draft proposing the rates for 2020-21 in March. The minutes of the 108th meeting of the regulator released last week said the process could not be completed because of the lockdown and it was decided to continue with the prevalent rates. Industry, however, anticipates that there is room for a later revision in case the regulator wants. “It is only ratification of the existing order. They have nowhere said that this is going to be there for the entire financial year. But generally the understanding is it might not change given the Covid situation,” said Sajja Praveen Chowdary, motor business head, Policybazaar.com.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-302
31-08-2020||Business||BSNL user base surges during Covid||Government-owned BSNL has posted a 31.84 per cent growth in wireless subscribers in Calcutta in May despite operational challenges on account of the lockdown and cyclone Amphan. Total wireless subscribers for BSNL in Calcutta increased to 21,27,898 in May 2020 from 16,13,991 in May last year, according to data from telecom regulator Trai. Compared with April, BSNL added 22,855 subscribers in May. According to BSNL officials, the addition in the subscriber base is despite the operator not offering 4G services unlike its private peers. “We have reworked sales and marketing. Earlier, BSNL did not have retail managers. Now we have posted retail managers in different areas. Their job is to work with the franchisees and retailers and expand the customer base,” Biswajit Paul, chief general manager, Calcutta Telephones, told The Telegraph. “We have also cut the time required to fix technical problems at BTS (base transceiver stations) and lower network downtime,” he said. Paul added that as an aftermath of the cyclone around 60 per cent of the network was affected. It took about a month’s time for the PSU to bring back stability.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-302
31-08-2020||Business||Bid to plug Asean FTA gap||Commerce and industries minister Piyush Goyal has insisted the rules of origin provisions be strengthened during the review of the free trade pact with Asean. The provisions are meant to stop nations use the third-party route to import goods cheaply into India, using the preferential trade arrangements between the third country and India. Goyal wants the review of the free-trade pact with Asean members, which has been “inordinately delayed”,  to start before the end of this year. The issue was discussed during the 17th Asean-India Economic Ministers Consultations meet held virtually on August 29, an official statement said on Sunday. Goyal highlighted that the pact has to be mutually beneficial and a win-win for all sides. He also expressed the need to work towards the removal of non-tariff barriers and provide better market access to Indian businesses. Trade ministers of India and the 10-member Asean countries have instructed their officials to start discussions to determine the scope of review of the free trade agreement (FTA) at the earliest. Goyal and Tran Tuan Anh, minister of industry and trade of Vietnam, co-chaired the consultations. It was attended by trade ministers of all the Asean countries — Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam. The Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean)-India trade in goods agreement was signed on August 13, 2009 and came into force on January 1, 2010.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-303
31-08-2020||Business||Telecom earnings seen to rise||The telecom industry’s revenues are expected to rise 14-15 per cent in the current financial year, led by some uptick in average revenue per user, though the subscriber base may remain flat with rural growth offsetting SIM consolidation in urban locations, apex association COAI estimates. The newly appointed director general of the Cellular Operators’ Association of India (COAI), S. P. Kochhar, said any duopoly situation in the current three-player private telcos market can “never be a good thing” and asserted that sufficient competition among the operators is required for ensuring that subscribers get good services at better prices. The COAI will continue to be a neutral body that believes in consensus building and unanimity of views, Kochhar said when asked about past differences among the telecom companies, who are members of the association, on various issues. “The COAI tries to get the point of view of all members unanimously and we make sure whenever we project to any authority whether in government or regulatory, we do it as unanimous voice, we are not partisan...,” he said. Kochhar said that the industry’s financial distress is “evident” and that the COAI will continue to push for relief, including reduction in spectrum usage charges (SUC) and licence fee; and exemption of GST on licence fee and SUC, as well as on payment of spectrum acquired in auctions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-303
31-08-2020||Business||FM to discuss loan recast with bankers||Ahead of the roll out of a one-time debt recast for the resolution of Covid-19 related stress in bank loans, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will hold a review meeting with bankers and heads of non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) on September 3 for a smooth and speedy implementation of the scheme. “The review (meeting) will focus on enabling businesses and households to avail the revival framework on the basis of viability, necessary steps like finalising bank policies and identifying borrowers and discussing issues that require addressing a smooth and speedy implementation,” the finance ministry said in a statement. The finance minister will review the implementation of the resolution framework for Covid-19 related stress in bank loans on Thursday with the top management of scheduled commercial banks and NBFCs, it said. The RBI earlier this month permitted a one-time restructuring of both corporate and retail loans. Banks are in the process of getting a board-approved restructuring framework in line with RBI’s framework and eligibility defined by the central bank in its notification on August 6. Restructuring benefit can be availed by those whose account was standard on March 1 and defaults should not be over 30 days. Besides, the K.V. Kamath committee is working on recommendations on financial parameters such as service coverage ratio and debt equity ratio post resolution and interest coverage ratio to  recast corporate loans. Its recommendations will be notified within 30 days of setting up of the panel, which means the notification should be out by September 6. The resolution plans to be implemented under the framework may include conversion of any interest accrued, or to be accrued, into another credit facility, or granting of moratorium and/or rescheduling of repayments, based on an assessment of income streams of the borrower, up to two years. While the resolution under this framework can be invoked till December 31, 2020, the lending institutions have been encouraged to strive for early invocation in eligible cases, particularly for personal loans.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-303
31-08-2020||Business||Forecast of 7% fiscal deficit||India’s fiscal deficit is expected to touch 7 per cent of GDP in the 2020-21 fiscal against the budget estimate of 3.5 per cent, with revenue collections being hit amid disruptions in economic activities because of lockdowns, according to Brickwork Ratings. “The impact of the lockdown on economic activity shows up starkly in the trends in the central government revenue collection during the first three months of fiscal 2020-21,” the agency said in a report. According to data released by the Controller General of Accounts (CGA), the central government’s revenue in Q1 (April-June) of the current financial year is much lower than collections for the corresponding period last year. Revenue from income taxes (personal income tax and corporate income taxes) was lower by 30.5 per cent and the GST by almost 34 per cent during the period. On the other hand, there is a sharp increase in expenditure (by 13.1 per cent) because of additional spending incurred to save lives and livelihoods and to provide stimulus under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat programme. “This has resulted in the fiscal deficit widening to 83.2 per cent of the budgeted target in the first quarter itself,” the agency said. Brickwork Ratings expects the economy to gradually pick up from the third quarter of this fiscal. “Given the early signs of resumption in business activity, we expect revenue collections to reach pre-Covid levels towards the end of the third quarter, hoping that festive season demand induces consumption and spending. “However, if the current situation prolongs further, the government may face acute burden of fund shortage to fulfil the budgeted expenditure even after considering the announced higher borrowing of Rs 12 lakh crore,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-303
31-08-2020||Business||Need to find mid-way solution||The relation between the Centre and the states is not that of “giver and taker” and the GST Council will have to work out a mid-way solution for the GST collection shortfall keeping in mind that the central government too is bearing a huge revenue loss because of the Covid-19 pandemic, Bihar deputy chief minister Sushil Modi has said. Non-BJP ruled states such as Punjab, Kerala, Delhi and Bengal are at loggerheads with the Centre over the financing of the  GST shortfall. “A huge borrowing by the Centre would have macro-economic impact. The relation between the Centre and the states is not that of ‘giver and taker’, we have to keep the spirit of co-operative federalism in mind and work out a mid way,” said Modi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-303
31-08-2020||Business||Bengal rejects GST payout formula||Bengal has rejected the twin formula presented by the Centre to meet the shortfall in the GST compensation pool, with state finance minister Amit Mitra claiming it neither has any headroom to borrow nor the ability to pay interest. Mitra said he would talk to other states and take a collective stance to impress upon her central counterpart Nirmala Sitharaman that the options communicated by the Centre on Saturday were untenable. “Many states are speaking to each other. Very soon we will have some collective discussion. We will put our heads together much before the GST council meeting,” Mitra said this afternoon. The Centre on Saturday shot off letters detailing the two routes the states could take to meet their shortfalls in the GST cess collection which is pegged at Rs 2.35 lakh crore. Under both the mechanisms, states would have to take debt on their books, which Mitra argued would destroy their financial health and cut off the developmental agenda of the Bengal  administration. Initial estimate suggests Bengal alone will face a shortfall of Rs 15,000 crore in GST collection this year as the economy faces headwinds from the Covid-19 pandemic. If the state plans to recoup the loss, which translates into 1.5 per cent of state GDP, entirely by market borrowing — as suggested in the second option by the Centre — it would hit the debt ceiling limit under the FRBM Act. “We are caught between the rock and the hard place. States being asked to borrow. But we do not have any headroom to borrow. And they are not in a position to service the debt as many of them are already overburdened with debt.” Mitra, who had been a chairman of the empowered committee on the GST, debunked the central argument that central borrowing, instead of state, could rock the macroeconomic stability of the country. “(Bond) yield and macro stability depend on the total borrowing of the Centre and the states. Fiscal deficit is calculated together, as well as the country’s debt-to-GDP ratio. If the states rush to borrow, if at all they can borrow, yield will be impacted,” he said. On the contrary, Mitra argued, the Centre admittedly has headroom to borrow on behalf of the states, has the ability to service debt and also can raise funds cheaper by 2 per cent (200 basis points) than the Centre. Quoting a speech by former Union finance minister, the late Arun Jaitley, delivered at the Ficci AGM on December 20, 2013, Mitra noted how the tables have turned on the Centre. Then an Opposition leader, Jaitley rejected the UPA’s plan on the  GST because he could not trust the government on paying compensation. “Today we have come a full circle. What Arun Jaitley had feared as the Opposition in 2013, that he does not trust the central government, today those who are in power, the same people, are hearing (the same) from state after state,” Mitra recalled. Referring to the comment made by Sitharaman that Covid-19 was “an act of God”, roiling the economy and leading to a huge shortfall in GST collection, Mitra argued that the economy was already stuttering going into the pandemic. Growth had faltered from 8 per cent to 4.2 per cent last fiscal due to demonetisation and a hasty implementation of GST. Moreover, cumulative fraud of Rs 70,018 crore was detected by GST officials after the new regime was introduced . “Was demon an act of God or the hasty GST? Somebody or some people were playing God before the ‘act of God’. And then we had an act of fraud as well,” the state finance minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-303
31-08-2020||Business||Green ruling aids gas||The crackdown by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on polluting units is expected to push up the demand for natural gas. Demand for the "clean fuel" will also go up from fertiliser units and refineries in the country, with power providing the "icing on the cake", according to a brokerage. Natural gas which is the cleanest fossil fuel accounts for a little over 6 per cent of all energy consumed in the country. The government has set a target to increase its share to 15 per cent in another 10 years, which translates into a consumption of 600 million standard cubic metres per day (mscmd) from 153mscmd at present, bulk of which is met from domestic output. While efforts have been made to build LNG import terminals, laying pipelines and expanding the city gas distribution network, analysts at Motilal Oswal Institutional Equities said in a note that one of the major factors that will cause demand to rise is actions taken by the NGT towards implementing pollution reduction in the country through both policy and punitive measures. The brokerage expects natural gas supply to spike to 290.4mscmd over the next two to thee years following stricter enforcement of environmental norms and increased pipeline penetration. Since the beginning of this calendar year alone, the NGT has levied a cumulative Rs 400 crore in fines across industries. Moreover, in its July order, it also asked the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to file an Action Taken Report (ATR) on restricting the use of petcoke and fuel oil by January 2021. The brokerage projects that if there is a ban or replacement of "dirty fuels" it will generate fresh demand of 25mscmd of gas which is around 16 per cent of the total gas consumption in 2019-20. “While 16 per cent may not look lucrative, combined with coal and other polluting fuels, replacement demand for dirty fuels could easily be around 100mscmd,’’ the analysts said. They added that several of the existing refineries such as Paradeep, Barauni, Haldia, Vizag, Bhatinda, and Mangaluru are not connected to the gas grid as yet. These could generate demand of 12mscmd over the next two to three years as the necessary pipeline infrastructure gets completed. Moreover, in addition to the four existing fertiliser plants — MCFL, MFL, SPIC and Matix — four more are under construction. They could generate total demand of 15mscmd. The city gas distribution sector had reported total consumption of 28mscmd in the previous fiscal. This segment could generate an additional 10mscmd over the next two to three years. The power sector could also be a strong consumer. While India has gas-based power generation capacity of 25 giga watts, the analysts said that at 80 per cent plant load factor (PLF), it could consume a total of 91mscmd of natural gas, against consumption of 31mscmd in 2019-20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-303
