15-05-2020||News||Covid-19: Time for liberal withdrawal options for retirement funds||We are in the midst of a severe economic and financial crisis. With the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)’s tendency to infect an unusually large number of elderly people, pension schemes become an absolute necessity – for medical support as well as to stave-off the resultant economic crisis.As the Nobel laureate, Milton Friedman, writes: “Only a crisis – actual or perceived – produces real change. When that crisis occurs, the actions that are taken depend on the ideas that are lying around.”Such a crisis exists in the delivery of retirement benefits for India’s National Pension System (NPS) subscribers.We have an example in the Thrift Savings Plan (TSP), a retirement plan for American civil servants, which is an efficient and publicly-managed social security scheme. The account is managed individually for each subscriber, and contributions flow into exclusive accounts. And the risk is borne by the subscriber. It offers three ways to withdraw money on retirement, with an option to choose any or a combination of the three.One, lump-sum withdrawal. Lump-sum withdrawals are large and a member of the TSP can take single or multiple withdrawals on retirement. It is akin to full provident fund (PF) withdrawal on retirement from service by the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) subscribers or up to 60% withdrawal of total corpus by an NPS subscriber.Two, instalment payments. TSP enables a civil servant to receive payments on a monthly, quarterly, or annual basis till the total amount in the TSP account lasts. The participant has the option to start, stop, or change instalment payments at any time.The Employees’ Pension Scheme (EPS), one of the three schemes administered by EPFO that enables a subscriber to receive monthly pension payments. The pension contributions continue to be invested in the fund. While the PF account is managed separately for each individual, the pension contributions flow in a pooled pension fund. The risk is shared by the employers and the central government. Pension is guaranteed by the EPS. At present, it doesn’t have a provision of monthly pension payments for an NPS subscriber.Three, life annuity. An annuity pays a benefit to the participant for life. A TSP account holder purchases an annuity from a TSP-empanelled insurance company. In NPS, a minimum of 40% of the corpus has to be compulsorily used to buy an annuity at retirement to secure a regular income during the period of retirement. There is no annuity in EPFO.It doesn’t change the accumulated pension corpus, it merely redefines the ways the retiral benefits are used.Among the three alternatives available to a TSP subscriber, the most popular is the lump-sum withdrawal at the time of retirement. Its downside risk, however, is that retirees often outlive their pension wealth.An important factor affecting retirement benefits in the future for DC plans like TSP or NPS is the annuity conversion factor (the annuities which are effectively paid to a subscriber in retirement), which for OECD countries stands at 90%.The annuity conversion factor is much lower in India. The annuity market is not well-developed anywhere in the world, and India is no exception. It accounts for less than one-fifth of the total investment of the Indian insurance business. The reward to annuity providers appears to be disproportionate to the risks taken by them for a guaranteed income. The adequacy of benefits is also an issue in life annuity plans and particularly in a low-interest environment.Unlike the TSP, the annuitisation for NPS retirees is mandatory. They must use a minimum of 40% of the corpus to buy a life annuity. The objective of the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) is to develop and regulate pension funds and protect the interest of its subscribers – not promote the insurance industry.PFRDA has an efficient IT-based architecture for the collection of contributions, investments at low costs, electronic record-keeping of accounts, and in-service part-withdrawals. Unlike EPFO, NPS was started in the digital age and has a robust digital infrastructure. Individual accounting infrastructure for bringing flexibility in withdrawal options is in place, and the same could be leveraged for an innovative approach to serve the subscribers. In fact, PFRDA is uniquely placed to offer flexibility in withdrawal options as per the choice exercised by subscribers.It’s time to change the NPS. PFRDA could emulate TSP by liberalising the withdrawal options and individual choice for retirees by providing alternatives and flexibility in the delivery of benefits. In particular, life annuity should be made optional. Similarly, a provision for monthly pension payments could also be introduced for NPS subscribers, while the remaining corpus may continue to be invested with the NPS fund. This would benefit NPS subscribers as larger pools of assets would be less expensive to manage on a per-unit basis as the economies of scale would lower administrative costs, increasing the retiral benefits.PFRDA, the regulator, and the government will find it difficult to resist the idea for a much-improved retirement option that could act as a “crown” for its subscribers in tumultuous times such as the coronavirus pandemic.Anuja Choudhary is a research associate at IMI New Delhi The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-time-for-liberal-withdrawal-options-for-retirement-funds/story-R9zj5ttT3d6PqXEi8QYRdM.html
15-05-2020||News||A Covid-19 vaccine will be found. Plan for its delivery||Most experts say we are 12-18 months away from an approved coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, and even longer from having one available at scale. Despite vaccine development being at this uncertain early stage, India must immediately start planning how to deliver a Covid-19 vaccine.When a vaccine becomes available, everyone will have to run the fastest and largest mass vaccination campaign in history. India will have to vaccinate about a billion people to reach the level believed to confer herd immunity for Covid-19. Each day of the virus-driven uncertainty cripples the economy and imposes immense human costs. India should do everything we can to save a few critical days, weeks or months.A task force on coronavirus vaccine development, drug discovery, diagnosis, and testing exists. This group’s focus is diffuse. Even in the area of vaccines, the group’s focus is primarily vaccine development, not the delivery. Immunising a billion people in a country as diverse as India will be a staggering operational challenge. To be successful, we need a powerful group to plan for vaccine delivery now.To pull this off, India can draw lessons from two large, successful campaign-style exercises. Every five years, India holds the world’s largest general election, involving up to 900 million voters. Electoral rules state there must be a polling place within two kilometres of every habitation. India employs 11 million election workers to make sure every eligible Indian can vote. Every vote is cast electronically via more than 1.7 million machines. Despite these formidable challenges, India successfully conducts elections, widely considered free and fair.The polio campaign is the second example. As recently as 2009, India had over 60% of all global polio cases. With an annual birth cohort of 27 million children, high population density, poor sanitation, inaccessible regions, high population mobility and a high disease burden, the obstacles to achieving zero-polio status seemed insurmountable. Nevertheless, India has not had a single case of the wild poliovirus since 2011, and it was officially declared polio-free in 2014. The victory was achieved through government ownership, partnerships with private and social sectors, innovations in programme delivery, technical advances, and massive social mobilisation. There are over 90 vaccine candidates in trials, six in human clinical trials, with more being added every week. The vaccine candidates range across virus, viral vector, nucleic acid, and protein-based approaches — which means that they will require different technologies and processes to manufacture them. We don’t yet know if an eventual vaccine will require temperature control, ultra-cold temperature control, or not require any cooling to maintain its potency. We don’t know if it will be packaged and administered via conventional syringes or an innovative new delivery mechanism such as a micro-needle patch. We don’t know the duration for which an eventual vaccine will confer immunity. We don’t know its efficacy; of the people who get vaccinated, what fraction will be protected from getting sick? We don’t know how that efficacy will vary across different populations — will it be as effective for older people as for younger people, for populations in north India as in south India?Despite these uncertainties, there is a lot for a Vaccination Task Force (VTF) to productively focus its efforts on right now.First, for each of the key uncertainty drivers, VTF can determine plausible ranges and identify the most likely options. These can be used to draw up a set of scenarios for detailed planning. The VTF can then monitor how vaccine development is progressing. As more information becomes available, the ranges on the key uncertain variables can be narrowed and the priority order and details of plans can be revised.Second, practice through “war games” will allow decision-makers to rapidly and correctly react to changing circumstances. An example: How to react to the possible tragedy of a small cluster of deaths in one state, most likely due to vaccine-related side-effects? Such “war games” are standard practice for militaries, and are increasingly used by corporates to allow decision-makers to improve their responses.Third, no matter how fast production can be ramped up, there will be initial periods when only a limited supply of vaccine will be available, and demand will exceed supply. The VTF can draw up allocation and prioritisation rules. For example, first high-risk populations such as health workers; then, vulnerable populations such as the elderly; thereafter, individuals likely to be potential “super-spreaders”; and finally, the general public. The VTF can also represent India in global agreements for an equitable allocation of vaccines and agree to rules for the timing and allocations of supply within India versus for export to other countries.Fourth, India excels in one critical dimension — vaccine manufacturing. India alone supplies 60% of the vaccine doses purchased by the United Nations Children’s Fund (Unicef) each year. The Serum Institute of India is the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer, producing and selling over 1.5 billion doses annually. Even if Indian manufacturers are part of global agreements to ensure equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines for every country, India can be assured of a strong negotiating position, as it brings critical production capacity to the table. The VTF can work collaboratively with local manufacturers to understand how many doses can be manufactured in what time-frames, provide the necessary support to increase the number, and establish agreements to purchase a minimum number of doses at an agreed price.Last, coherent, clear, and resonant communication will be a critical pillar for building trust and ensuring public receptivity and cooperation for a vaccination campaign.If planning for vaccine delivery starts now, India will have a well-thought-through playbook to execute from when a vaccine is ready.Sidharth Rupani is a consultant specialising in the design of public health supply chains The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/a-covid-19-vaccine-will-be-found-plan-for-its-delivery/story-guxbzBcIvG02mypZOKNV5K.html
15-05-2020||City||Palghar cop forces women to do sit-ups, transferred||An assistant sub-inspector from Palghar’s Satpati Coastal police station, Jyaneshwar Sawant, was transferred to the Palghar control room on Thursday for forcing women fishmongers to do sit-ups as punishment for violating lockdown. A video to this effect was being circulated on social media, which forced API Jitendra Thakur to transfer Sawant.The video clip shows Sawant forcing the women fishmongers, who were drenched to their bones after they came ashore with freshly caught clams and shellfish near the shallow waters of the coast, to do sit-ups, causing the women embarrassment. Some men were also in the group who had gone to catch clams and small fish.As soon as they were walking to their homes in their wet clothes, Sawant stopped them and told them they had violated lockdown and did not maintain social distancing, so as a punishment, he forced the women and men to do sit-ups while Sawant recorded the entire incident. As fishing activities are stopped, fishmongers, especially women, enter the shallow waters to catch small fish like clams and shellfish for home consumption. This action by the police officer resulted in his transfer to the Palghar control room, said API Thakur. “We are investigating who circulated the video on social media, and we will book the accused,” Thakur added. The entire incident is now being investigated by Vilas Naik, deputy superintendent of police, Palghar as it showed the police in a poor light.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cop-forces-women-to-do-sit-ups-transferred/story-7G5WecmQ2AFgenfIJUIwoI.html
15-05-2020||Mumbai||Containment zones in Mumbai down to 692 from 2,800+||After the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) change in approach, the number of containment zones in the city has reduced to 692, from the earlier more than 2,800.Among the first few changes in standard operating procedure made by municipal commissioner IS Chahal, when he took charge on Friday last week, was creation of watertight containment pockets. Earlier, if a Covid-19 positive case was found in a building, BMC tagged the building as a containment zone and sealed it. As part of its new approach, the civic body has now removed standalone buildings and chawls from the list of containment zones, dividing the 2,800+ zones into two – containment zones and sealed buildings. There are now 1,271 sealed buildings in Mumbai within the 692 containment zones.Chahal had said on Wednesday, “I am now rationalising the number of containment zones. A population of 5,000 to 6,000 is ideal for one containment zone. However, in Mumbai, every building is one containment zone. Of the 2,800 containment zones in the city, 1,153 are standalone buildings, with a single Covid-19 case.”Chahal said he realised manning so many “so-called containment zones” was a waste of police manpower. “The number 2,800 rises rapidly everyday and scares people. They think yet another big area has been engulfed by Covid-19.”BMC has now used natural boundaries such as roads, nullahs, chowks to seal the zones. Zones can be made of a few buildings with cases, a square or an area that is easy to lock in. While these zones will be manned by the police, the sealed buildings will have to carry out “self-management.”The cooperative managing bodies of these buildings will have to ensure nobody enters or exits the building and BMC will be responsible for sanitising the building, taking co-morbid people from the building to quarantine centres for observation, if necessary. For the larger containment zone, BMC and Covid warriors appointed from among elected representatives such as corporators and MLAs will be responsible for operating the zone, such as distributing food packets and handling fever clinics.After analysing the containment zones, sealed buildings and the cases, it was seen that the number of cases in a ward is no longer directly proportional to the number of containment zones. Explaining the implication, a senior civic officer said, “If one building has a newly discovered Covid-19 case, but is already in or adjoining an existing containment zone, it will be added to this zone, and will be sealed. We are no longer creating a new containment zone for every building. A ward may have an overall high number of cases, but can have few containment zones if the cases are concentrated in one area that can be locked in.”For example, going by the data for cases as of May 12 and containment zones as of May 14, the E ward (Byculla) with 1,347 Covid-19 cases has 19 containment zones and 112 sealed buildings, as opposed to the C ward (Marine Lines) with 134 Covid-19 cases, which has 27 containment zones and 18 sealed buildings. Five wards in the city have cases shooting above 1,000. The F-North ward (Wadala and Sewri) with 1,205 cases has 22 containment zones and 90 sealed buildings. The G-North ward, which houses Dharavi, has 1,382 cases and 11 containment zones, with 7 sealed buildings. The G-South ward (Worli and Prabhadevi) with 1,171 cases has 14 containment zones and 41 sealed buildings. The K-West ward (Andheri) with 1,073 cases has 13 containment zones and 91 sealed buildings. However, the P-North ward (Malad) with only 287 cases has 28 containment zones and 41 sealed buildings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/containment-zones-in-mumbai-down-to-692-from-2-800/story-JNRjEZFzWaop4AdsiWl8zL.html
15-05-2020||City||Navi Mumbai crosses 1000 mark with 74 new cases||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) crossed 1000 mark of Covid 19 cases on Friday. Four deaths were also reported.With 74 new cases recorded on Thursday, Navi Mumbai’s count is 1,048. The 74 positive cases are from Belapur (two), Nerul (18), Vashi (4), Turbhe (14), Kopar Khairane (19), Ghansoli (13), Airoli (two) and Digha (two).15 new cases in Panvel take total to 234Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) recorded 15 new Covid cases with the total in its jurisdiction reaching 234.Some of them who tested positive are a 64-year-old resident of Khanda colony who works in Merchant Navy at Colaba; a 36-year-old resident of Dharavi, who had come to live in Kalamboli recently; a 54-year-old BMC security guard at Ghatkopar living in Kamothe; a 34-year-old CISF personnel working at Mumbai airport and living in Kharghar; a 33-year-old policewoman; a 57-year-old cashier at BEST depot in Mumbai living in Kamothe; a 56 –year-old accountant of a bank in Mumbai living in Kamothe; a 31-year-old wife of a BEST employee living in Kharghar and a 36-year-old woman X-Ray technician of a hospital in Govandi living in Kamothe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-crosses-1000-mark-with-74-new-cases/story-vqmOe7vKT9Mgb1irJN1G9J.html
15-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai university administration meets college heads to plan final year exams||In a relief to students, the University of Mumbai on Friday indicated that it will soon release the schedule for semester examinations for final year students. The university administration held meetings with all heads of departments and principals of affiliated colleges to discuss the way forward for examination and the new academic session. Last week, the state higher and technical education minister Uday Samant had announced that all final year students will have to appear for their final semester exams between July 1 and 30. He had also announced that all other students will be promoted to the next semester. Following Samant’s announcement, some final year students had started an online petition asking the government to scrap exams. Meanwhile, the University Grants Commission (UGC) has issued recommendations and guidelines for promoting students to the next academic year.In line with Samant’s directions and following the UGC directive, the university administration, headed by vice-chancellor Suhas Pednekar, consulted with 857 principals, deans and heads of departments over a series of meetings on the matter. The discussions pertained to the examinations to be conducted by colleges, evaluation of papers, ATKT (allowed to keep term), internal marking and grading pattern to be adopted under the circumstances.While usually semester exams of the University of Mumbai are held in April and May, this year most exams had to be scrapped owing t the lockdown. After confusion over exam dates, Samant clarified last week that all students, except those in final year, will be promoted to the next year. He directed universities and colleges to adopt UGC recommendation and promote students based on a 50-50% gradation formula--50% will be based a student’s performance in internals and other projects in the current semester and 50% will be based on the student’s performance in the previous semester. Those with ATKT would be passed temporarily but would have to appear for an exam within 120 days of the start of the new semester.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-university-administration-meets-college-heads-to-plan-final-year-exams/story-dBYgGfIOSQcSj4xaYztWhJ.html
15-05-2020||Mumbai||‘Readied hotels, but not included in Vande Bharat list’||Some members of the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI), alleged that after setting up quarantine facilities at their hotels for passengers returning from abroad under the Vande Bharat scheme, the authorities are now not giving them any business, causing huge losses.Majority of the 88 hotels in the city, which were to be used as quarantine facilities are now vacant. The hoteliers alleged that their establishments have been excluded from the list of hotels being circulated to the passengers so that a few favoured can grab the business.“We have received complaints from our members that the passengers were given a list of hardly 12 hotels to choose from. This is an injustice to others and is hurting their business,” said Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, president, HRAWI.He added that HRAWI had submitted a list of 40 member hotels to the authorities who wanted to aid them in this work.BJP leader Krishna Hegde, who is fighting for the hoteliers, said such moves will only wreck the bleeding hotel business. “The hotels were already running in losses and on top of that, the civic body told them to start this facility. They spent lakhs and equipped their staff to deal with this situation. However, they are now not getting any business,” rued Hegde.Guardian minister Aslam Shaikh said the state government will take action against this. “I have received no complaint till date but if anyone approaches, will ask officials to investigate and take action,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/readied-hotels-but-not-included-in-vande-bharat-list/story-Z1LGXZEuBIXLYZUSPJu0vK.html
15-05-2020||Mumbai||MPCB warns Badlapur effluent treatment plant after Waldhuni river turns red||The state pollution control board has pulled up wastewater management after the members of the Ulhasnagar Citizens Forum filed a complaint with the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) attaching photographs of Waldhuni river which had turned red due to industrial effluents. Waldhuni, a tributary of the Ulhas river, supplies water to cities in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region.On Thursday evening, the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) issued a notice to the Badlapur common effluent treatment plant (CETP) directing them to respond within 48 hours about the source of the pollution, and that the CETP had failed in curtailing effluents. “If the CETP fails to respond to the direction notice by Sunday, we will initiate legal action and also consider shutting down the plant, which means industries functioning in the area will not be working as well,” said SL Waghmare, regional officer (Kalyan), MPCB.A three-member team from MPCB surveyed a nine-kilometre stretch of the river from Ulhasnagar railway station to Badlapur, to check the source of the effluents. “We found that the effluents were being released into the CETP where effective treatment was not taking place. However, the source of the red colour is still unclear,” said Waghmare.The CETP is run by an association of local industrial units. According to CETP operators, 22 pharmaceutical, textile, food processing and chemical industries were functional during the lockdown, sending effluents to the CETP. Normally, 163 industries (130 chemical and 33 textile) are functioning. “The source of the effluent is coming mostly from red dye from one of the textile industries. Our vigilance team of three members have been directed to investigate and inform MPCB at the earliest,” said Khushal S Jain, member, Badlapur CETP. “We will ensure the matter is resolved. If industries are shut it will lead to further job losses in this difficult period.”According to MPCB’s daily CETP report published on its website, surprisingly all water quality parameters were within safe limits. “The red colour is still there, but within the next couple of days, water quality will further improve,” said Waghmare.Complainant and member of the citizens’ forum Sanjay Burman denied MPCB’s claim. “The colour has further intensified into almost a maroon shade on the surface of the river, and the foul smell has increased. All state authorities are in hand in glove with the chemical mafia for a long time. The lockdown has finally exposed this,” he said.“The fact that CETPs have not been performing to the required standards is not hidden from MPCB for many years. Time and again MPCB has offered cover to CETPs instead of taking punitive action,” said Stalin D, director, Vanashakti, a petitioner in the matter before the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mpcb-warns-badlapur-effluent-treatment-plant-after-waldhuni-river-turns-red/story-2LuyAB8VR5416b5fu8uSNJ.html
15-05-2020||Lucknow||NHRC notices to UP, Punjab over woman pulling suitcase with child sleeping on it||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Friday issued notices to the Uttar Pradesh and Punjab chief secretaries and the Agra district magistrate after taking suo motu cognizance of media reports about a migrant woman pulling a suitcase with her child sleeping half hung on it on the Agra highway during the Covid-19 lockdown.A spokesperson for NHRC said the woman was walking all the way from Punjab to Jhansi in Uttar Pradesh when she caught the attention of media persons.“The commission is aware of the unprecedented situation due to the Covid pandemic, that the central and the state governments are working sincerely to address every issue coming up during the lockdown, but it is strange that the pain of the child and the family could be seen and felt by many people en route, except the local authorities,” the spokesperson said.If the local authorities had been vigilant, some relief could immediately be provided to the aggrieved family and others facing similar hardship, the spokesperson said, adding that the incident amounted to violation of human rights and required intervention by NHRC.Issuing notices to the chief secretaries of Punjab and Uttar Pradesh and the Agra district magistrate, NHRC called for a detailed report within four weeks in the matter, including the action taken against the responsible officers/ officials and relief/ assistance provided to the victim.The commission further observed that several news reports about miseries of people had come to its notice during the lockdown, forcing it to intervene in order to sensitise the Central and the state authorities to deal with the situation with an approach of respect to human rights of the public at large, particularly the vulnerable sections of the society.However, media reports suggested continuing sufferings of the people, particularly the migrant labourers, whose long journey, was not coming to a halt, the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/nhrc-notices-to-up-punjab-over-woman-pulling-suitcase-with-child-sleeping-on-it/story-FnJJ55Mwqwr6WjZrvlnneP.html
15-05-2020||City||Five arrested in riot case test positive||Five accused, who were arrested in a rioting case, have tested positive for Covid. Four of them were arrested by the Ambernath police and one by Kapurbawdi police.The 30 police personnel from the two police stations will undergo Covid test if they develop any symptoms. According to Ambernath police, they arrested the four accused in an attempt to murder and riot case the last week. The court has remanded them in police custody till Tuesday. Later, they were granted judicial custody and before sending them to jail, they had to undergo Covid test as per protocol. The report showed they were infected.S Dhumal, senior inspector of Ambernath police station, said, “The four accused, between 35 and 40 years, are also wanted in other cases too. On Thursday, they were to be sent to judicial custody. After their report showed they were Covid positive, we informed the Ambernath Municipal Council.”The police station has been sanitized. “None of our personnel has any symptoms. We are not going to conduct their test now,” said Dhumal.Ambernath police station has a total of 130 personnel. Two days ago, a 38-year-old accused, who was arrested by Kapurbavdi police in a riot case, tested positive. According to the police, the accused and three others were arrested. He was showing symptoms of coronavirus so the police got him tested. After his report showed that he was positive, the police informed the Thane Municipal Corporation. The other three were sent to quarantine centre. Deputy commissioner of police Avinash Ambure said, “We have sanitized the police station and checked the health of 15 police personnel who had arrested him. If we find any symptom, we will quarantine them.”All the accused who tested positive have been admitted to Thane civil hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-arrested-in-riot-case-test-positive/story-xdhfOzGgWoz13Vjm7raY2M.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||4 Nanded returnees among 8 more test positive in Punjab||Eight more persons, including four who returned from Takht Hazur Sahib in Maharashtra’s Nanded, tested positive for Covid-19 in Punjab on Friday, taking the state’s tally to 2,005.The four Nanded returnees, including three women, were found to have contracted the virus in Faridkot district which now has 52 cases so far.Civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said the patients were admitted to the isolation ward of the Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot. Earlier, they were at a quarantine facility.Two of the patients are residents of Sandhwan village, while the others belong to Chand Bhan village. They were among 26 Huzur Sahib returnees whose fresh swab samples were sent to the laboratory after results of their previous samples came inconclusive.Now, there are 45 active Covid-19 cases in the district.Taxi driver found infected in RupnagarIn Rupnagar, a 50-year-old taxi driver of Mangewal village near Anandpur Sahib tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday.He had gone to Hamirpur in Himachal Pradesh to drop four persons there recently. After the four were tested positive for Covid-19, the driver was admitted to the isolation ward of the Anandpur Sahib civil hospital and his sample was taken for test.The number of active Covid-19 cases in Rupnagar district has risen to 57.5-year-old contracts infection in PatialaIn Patiala, a five-year-old boy from Fatehgarh Sahib’s Malakpur village tested positive for the coronavirus.Civil surgeon Dr NK Aggarwal said the boy contracted infection from his father, who was tested positive three days ago.“His father is a combine operator and had toured other states. The father and son are presently admitted to the isolation ward of the Gian Sagar hospital in Banur,” the civil surgeon said.Their contact tracing is on, he added.BOX:Reports of 2 found dead found positiveIn Ludhiana, the reports of two persons found dead were confirmed as positive days after their bodies were found.One of them, Karan Kumar (15) of Janak Puri, was murdered while the other’s body was found near the rail tracks near the Gill area on May 12. Sixteen police officials were asked to go into self-isolation. Additional deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Sachin Gupta said these cops include DCP (crime) Simratpal Singh Dhindsa, ADCP (crime) Harish Dyama, ADCP (III) Gurpreet Kaur Purewal, ACP (Civil Lines) Jatinder Kumar Chopra, ACP (crime- 1) Mandeep Sandhu and Division No 5 station house officer (SHO) Richa Rani.Seven of Karan’s family members were rushed to hospital and contact tracing was initiated.These police officials had carried out preliminary investigation at the crime scene, it is learnt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/4-nanded-returnees-among-8-more-test-positive-in-punjab/story-2TCiQT2f94VrfYFpH3KNnM.html
15-05-2020||City||Thane records 6 Covid deaths in 24 hours||Thane recorded six Covid deaths on Friday – the highest in a day. The city has seen 48 Covid deaths.Thane is merely short of four cases to touch 1,000 cases of Covid-19. It reported the highest one-day spike of 83 cases on Friday, taking the total to 996.Three among the six who died, died on their way to hospital or in their own homes.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “Out of the six, two are women --a 50-year-old from Wagale Estate and a 58-year-old from Gautam Nagar in Hajuri. The woman from Indira Nagar, Wagale Estate died on her way to the hospital while the Hajuri resident died in her house.”A 32-year-old man from Indira Nagar area of Wagale Estate died on the way to hospital. Three more men, including a 51-year-old man from Lokmanya Nagar, 74-year-old man from Padle village and 45-year-old man from Rashid Compound in Mumbra died, said Malvi.He added, “The home deaths will also have to follow the funeral norms of Covid deaths. The protocol was followed in the three cases reported today. The Lokmanyanagar Sawarkarnagar ward recorded the highest number of cases at 32 followed by 16 in Mumbra and 10 in Wagale Estate.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-records-6-covid-deaths-in-24-hours/story-pjc2QTNPLVip0CYQNl5kdJ.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 37% patients cured in Punjab as 508 discharged in a day||As many as 508 patients undergoing Covid-19 treatment were discharged from various hospitals in Punjab on Friday after they recovered from the disease, health department officials said. With this, the total tally of cured patients in the state reached 731.This was the biggest single-day jump in the number of cured patients in the state with most of those discharged being Nanded-returned pilgrims. At least 37% of the total cases have been declared as cured.At 95, the maximum patients discharged were in Amritsar district. Of these, 44 Nanded-returnees were being treated at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) and 51 at Sri Guru Ram Dass (SGRD) Charitable Hospital.Also, 81 patients were discharged in Tarn Taran district, civil surgeon Dr Anup Kumar said. “The district recorded total of 162 coronavirus positive cases of which four patients were discharged on Thursday. The 81 Covid patients, who had Nanded-link, were tested negative in their two consecutive test reports. Other 77 patients are under surveillance and are stable,” Dr Kumar added. In Jalandhar, 79 patients were discharged from the local civil hospital after a team of doctors thoroughly examined them. Senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Kashmiri Lal the patients should be clinically assessed for the resolution of symptoms.5 active cases in GurdaspurIn Gurdaspur district, the health department on Friday discharged 66 patients from various hospitals after they reported negative. Now, only five active cases are in the district. They all are Nanded returnees. Three of them are under treatment in the Batala civil hospital while two are being treated at the Dhariwal hospital.Five suspected patients are also likely to be discharged from the hospitals by Monday when they complete their 14-day quarantine period and if no coronavirus symptoms are not found in them.No Covid case was reported in the district in the last 10 days.In Moga, the district health department on Friday discharged all the 46 Covid-19 patients, including 32 Nanded returnees, admitted in isolation wards of the civil hospital and the community health centre (CHC) in Bagahpurana. Four Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) workers, who tested positive for coronavirus on May 2, were among the discharged patients. Now, there is no Covid-19 patient admitted to the isolation wards in the district. “An undertaking was taken from all the patients to strictly follow seven-day home quarantine as per the guidelines of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). We have also download COVA app on the cell phone of each patient to keep track on them and their caretakers are asked to follow all the precautions,” a health official said. 35 active cases in SangrurIn Sangrur, 51 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Friday. The number of total active cases in the district is 35.Of these, 16 are residents of Sherpur block, 10 from Kaurhian, 7 from Fatehgarh Panjgrian, 6 from Sangrur, 5 from Longowal and 3 each from Amargarh and Bhawanigarh blocks.Deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said most of these 51 patients were Nanded returnees.In Ferozepur district, 39 patients were discharged on Friday as per the fresh norms. Also, 21 Covid-19 patients were discharged in Bathinda on Friday. All are pilgrims who returned from Takht Huzur Sahib in Maharashtra’s Nanded Deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said, “The district has a total of 43 Covid -19 patients, including one each from Moga and Ludhiana districts. Now, 22 patients are being treated in isolation wards in the district. In Mansa, one patient, who got cured of disease, was discharged from the civil hospital. With this, the district now has 23 active Covid cases. 11 declared cured in Ludhiana As many as 11 patients were declared as cured in Ludhiana. Of these, four are students who had returned from Kota in Rajasthan and while seven returned from Nanded. The process to discharge them was on.(Inputs from Sangrur, Bathinda, Ludhiana and Faridkot)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-37-patients-cured-in-punjab-as-508-discharged-in-a-day/story-4yjF9VOYSt77ONAyRDer9N.html
15-05-2020||Lucknow||2,241 stranded citizens repatriated to India, Nepal||As many as 2,241 Indian and Nepalese citizens, who were stranded at the border due to the Covid-19 lockdown, were allowed to go to their respective countries on Thursday, officials in Bahraich and Lakhimpur Kheri said on Friday. In Bahraich, the exchange took place at Rupaidiha on the India-Nepal border through which 1,024 Indian nationals and 723 Nepalese citizens were allowed to go to their countries, superintendent of police, Bahraich, Vipin Kumar Mishra said. Bahraich district magistrate Shambhu Kumar said these 1,074 Indian citizens would now be kept at shelter homes in Nanpara and Motipur tehsil. They would be screened, he added.In Lakhimpur Kheri, 322 stranded Nepalese nationals were taken to the Gaurifanta border by bus and 140 Indian citizens were brought back to India through the same border, officials said.The step was taken after Lakhimpur Kheri district SK Singh held talks with the Nepalese authorities. The Nepalese citizens have already completed their quarantine in India.Meanwhile, Lakhimpur Kheri district magistrate SK Singh, along with superintendent of police Poonam, visited the district court premises and took stock of sanitisation measures, thermal scanning of visitors and other health protocols being observed there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/2-241-stranded-citizens-repatriated-to-india-nepal/story-jmDsOHNVhTzYljpjghiAmK.html
15-05-2020||City||Nine of a family in Ulhasnagar test positive||After a 50-year-old woman from Ulhasnagar died of coronavirus last week, nine of her family members tested positive on Friday.The family had attended her funeral on May 9 violating the protocol. As per the civic body, the family unwrapped the body and carried out the rituals at the cremation.After the civic body learnt about this, the high-risk contacts were tested and nine were found positive on Friday.Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) commissioner Sudhakar Deshmukh has lodged a complaint at the Central police station against three of the family members.“The woman was admitted to Central hospital. It was a suspected Covid-19 case. The hospital was not ready to hand over the body for cremation initially. However the family was adamant and they gave us in writing that they would follow the protocol during the cremation. The body was properly wrapped and handed over to the family. Her test report came after her death,” said Deshmukh.Another 70 of those who came in contact with the family have been quarantined by the civic body.An officer from Central police station, who did not wish to be named, said, “The civic body has lodged a complaint and we are verifying it. We have not registered any case as of now.”As per the Thane collector’s guidelines, all suspected Covid-19 deaths should be handled similar to confirmed Covid-19 cases and all protocol should be followed during cremation. Shashikant Dayma, a social activist from Ulhasnagar, said, “The civic body should have sent their staff to the cremation to ensure protocol is followed. It should ensure the implementation of the protocol. The family did not follow protocol and more people are going to be infected in the coming day.”UMC chief has again issued guidelines to residents of Ulhasnagar, stating protocol to be followed during the cremation of suspected and confirmed Covid-19 cases.The total number of cases in Ulhasnagar is 92 and five Covid deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nine-of-a-family-in-ulhasnagar-test-positive/story-xfs4qoekjqMyV38gFcnVFM.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers running out of patience due to delay in payment: Deepender||Congress Rajya Sabha member Deepender Singh Hooda on Friday urged the Haryana government to make payment, for wheat procured, to farmers at the earliest. He said that farmers were running out of patience due to the delay.Addressing mediapersons, the MP said the government has made the payment process so complicated that both the farmers and the commission agents are suffering.“Two days ago, the agriculture minister said that the farmers had only received payment for wheat procured till April 25 and not a single penny was paid to them for purchases made thereafter,” Hooda said.“The government has so far paid only Rs 1,500 crore out of the 12,500 crore due. About 65 lakh metric tonnes of wheat has been procured in the state so far, while the estimated arrival is close to 120 lakh metric tonnes. The government should buy every grain as promised and pay the farmer on time,” he said.The lifting of crop is slower than the procurement done by the government, he added.Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had said that the state government will make a payment of ₹4,400 crore to the commission agents by May 13.Khattar said that with this, a sum of ₹5,900 crore would have been credited in the bank accounts of arhtiyas by Wednesday night as the state government had already paid ₹1,500 crore to them between April 20 and 26.The payment of ₹4,400 crore pertains to the wheat procured between April 26 and May 5. “Remuneration to the farmers will be released through commission agents in the next three days,” the chief minister had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-running-out-of-patience-due-to-delay-in-payment-deepender/story-JdzRddXfhoJRhpnX5XDwiN.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||External affairs ministry lauds PGIMER for organising webinar on management of Covid crisis||The Union ministry of external affairs has lauded Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) for organising a five-day webinar series on “Managing the Covid- 19 pandemic: Experience and best practices of India”.The webinar was organised by the institute’s department of community medicine and school of public health for health professionals from West Africa, the Caribbean islands and South American countries.In a video message, TS Tirumurti, secretary (economics relations), MEA, thanked all participants for contributing to the exchange of ideas and best practices.PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram and Dr Sonu Goel, programme director, thanked MEA for the initiative and the participants for engaging and preparing an action plan for their countries to manage the Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/external-affairs-ministry-lauds-pgimer-for-organising-webinar-on-management-of-covid-crisis/story-HSsHgN4GYqtldOLio9sIhJ.html
15-05-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: Haryana Roadways resumes bus services partially||The service of Haryana Roadways was partially resumed on Friday, the first time since chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had announced the coronavirus lockdown on March 23.Six buses – one each from Hisar, Sirsa, Rewari, Narnaul, Rohtak and Bhiwani departed for Panchkula during the day.Haryana Roadways’ general managers (GMs) flagged off the buses from their respective districts and personally checked if social distancing and other guidelines were followed inside the vehicles.“Wearing mask and carrying a sanitiser is mandatory for each passenger boarding the buses. Nobody will be allowed to travel without them,” Haryana Roadways GM, Hisar, Rahul Mittal, said. He said a total of 16 people had booked online tickets from Hisar to Panchkula out of whom 15 reached the bus stand on time and boarded the bus. “Panchkula is about 240km away from Hisar and the passengers paid Rs 240 each through the online payment system,” he said.HEAVY POLICE DEPLOYMENTBefore flagging off the buses, officials of the health department examined the passengers through thermal scanning and also maintained a register of their names and other details. Heavy police force was deployed to maintain law and order condition nearby the bus stand.Sirsa GM Khubi Ram Kaushal said, “Before leaving from Sirsa, we sanitised the bus and the same process will be followed during our return trip. A total of 10 passengers travelled in the bus from Sirsa to Panchkula.” Passengers onboard the bus said they were stuck in Sirsa amid the lockdown, adding that as soon as they came to know about the running status of the buses, they booked the tickets.Meanwhile, Bhiwani GM Gulab Singh Dhun said a total of 18 people had applied for the tickets online, but two of them cancelled their tickets later. He said the department would increase the bus services if more commuters apply for the tickets online in the coming days. “All the 16 passengers, who boarded the bus were looking fit and fine. It seems we have started another journey amid the coronavirus pandemic. I hope all the operations will start soon across the state,” the roadways official said.A passenger, Shubham, said he was satisfied with the precautions taken by Haryana Roadways before allowing people to board the buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-haryana-roadways-resumes-bus-services-partially/story-BPu70eVXa0bgfrj4oOZKWL.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab in a fix over new discharge guidelines for asymptomatic cases||The Punjab health department is in a fix over the new discharge guidelines of Union ministry of health and family welfare for treatment of asymptomatic patients of Covid-19.The new guidelines say any patient can be sent to ‘home isolation’ if he is asymptomatic when he is tested positive.However, the state health department has strong reservations on the issue, keeping in mind the history of large number of suspects jumping the home quarantine.“We are discussing the issue at the higher level and with our experts as people often jump home quarantine and pose danger to others. Guidelines are being framed on the discharge of the asymptomatic patients,” Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, nodal officer for Covid-19, said.Notably, more than 75% of Covid-19 cases in Punjab are asymptomatic. In case of 1,225 Nanded-returnees found positive for the virus, only around 35 were showing symptoms.As per the Union health ministry guidelines, a patient has to follow 17-day home isolation from the date of testing and if he or she does not develop fever for 10 days, there is no need for testing after the home isolation is over.Notably, Punjab on Thursday also modified Union health ministry’s new discharge protocol for symptomatic patients.“The ministry says if any symptomatic patient with no fever or other symptoms for three consecutive days can be sent to home isolation. However, Punjab has amended this protocol. When symptomatic patients will stop showing symptoms during treatment, we will observe them for five days and will discharge only if he continues to remain asymptomatic,” a senior health functionary.STATE WITNESSES SHARP DIP IN DAILY ADDITION OF CASESDr Bhaskar said only three patients tested positive for the virus on Friday and the state has added just 18 cases in past four days.“What is more satisfactory for us is that the dip was witnessed when our testing has increased in the past ten days. The surge in the cases earlier was due to testing of Punjabi’s stuck in other parts of the country, including Kota and Nanded,” he added.Since May 10, Punjab has conducted more than 9,000 tests and has recorded 112 new positive cases, most of whom are Nanded-returnees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-in-a-fix-over-new-discharge-guidelines-for-asymptomatic-cases/story-00JF6I4SPwAs81XVsO3apJ.html
15-05-2020||City||NIIFT, Ludhiana, organises webinar for students||Northern India Institute of Fashion Technology (NIIFT), Ludhiana, organised a webinar on ‘Inspiration and impact of art on fashion’. It was coordinated by Rajwinder Kaur, head of fashion design department. More than hundred students and faculty members across the country participated and interacted with designer Gaurang Shah. He shared his views on the topic “How art influenced me to create a fusion of paintings and textiles in my work”. Kaur said that the institute strives to organise such interactive sessions for the students to provide them opportunities. Poonam Aggarwal Thakur appreciated the efforts of the faculty for organising the webinar. She also told about the ongoing admission process and the last date of receiving applications is May 22, 2020. Students can apply online on www.niiftindia.com.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/niift-ludhiana-organises-webinar-for-students/story-CZkjkdXJT0iLKKRYNTpnNI.html
15-05-2020||Lucknow||Migrants’ influx: Samples in each pool doubled for testing||The UP health department has decided to increase the number of samples in each pool from five to ten for testing in view of the arrival of a large number of migrant workers in the state. Principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said at a press conference here on Friday that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had now allowed the state health department to include up to 25 samples in each pool for pool testing.On Thursday, 2,082 samples were pool tested. Out of the 426 pools, 35 pools were found positive. The laboratories also tested 4,878 samples, he said.The health department has directed the surveillance committees constituted in the villages and urban areas to keep watch on migrant workers sent for home quarantine.Asha (Accredited social health activists) workers have been directed to pay house-to-house visits in the villages to know their well-being.Asha workers across the state have contacted 2.63 lakh migrant workers staying in home quarantine.In their report, Asha workers have stated that 305 migrant workers staying in home quarantine have Covid-19 symptoms. The health department has collected the migrants’ samples for tests, he said.On the basis of the alert provided by the Aarogya Setu app, the health department contacted 6,500 people across the state who had come in contact with Covid-19 positive patients, Prasad said. The samples of 14 such people tested positive and they were admitted in isolation wards.Fifty-eight people with co-morbidity were directed to remain alert, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/migrants-influx-samples-in-each-pool-doubled-for-testing/story-hvsYvR4x7Ox39RW7i5g1gN.html
15-05-2020||City||Two Nanded pilgrims cured of Covid-19 in Sirsa||The local administration of Sirsa district heaved a sigh of relief after two pilgrims, including a woman, who had returned from Nanded Sahib, were cured of Covid-19 on Saturday.As the pilgrims came out of the isolation ward, the health staff and deputy commissioner Sirsa RC Bidhan clapped for them.DC RC Bidhan said, “There were seven positive patients in Sirsa out of which six have been cured and one is undergoing treatment.”He further said that everyone must follow the government’s guidelines.Total 18 people had returned from Nanded Sahib by a bus to Dabwali town of the district on April 28. Two pilgrims tested positive on May 1 and were shifted to the isolation ward of Sirsa civil hospital.Chief medical officer Surender Nain said, “The entire medical staff worked round the clock to treat the patients. They have been cured and will finally return home. However, they will follow the quarantine rules. The entire medical staff was happy for them and clapped for them.”“The health department is keeping a checking up on rest of the 16 pilgrims on a daily basis,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-nanded-pilgrims-cured-of-covid-19-in-sirsa/story-f8zEZjlEAuQ6BYuHLxXSnJ.html
15-05-2020||Delhi||Five more areas de-sealed in Delhi, 74 remain||Delhi government on Friday de-contained five more areas in New Delhi, west and northeast Delhi districts after no fresh Covid-19 cases were reported from these areas. Areas which have been containment restrictions were scaled down include Israel Camp at Rangpuri in New Delhi district; JJ Colony in Madipur, camp no-2 Nangloi and Nihal Vihar — all in west Delhi; and gali no-4 B-block Shahtri Park in northeast Delhi. Till now the government has scaled down operations in 28 containment zones. At present Delhi has 74 containment areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/five-more-areas-de-sealed-in-delhi-74-remain/story-DIGJ2hbskhuAdi0CaYAMwJ.html
15-05-2020||Delhi||Second municipal sanitation worker dies of Covid-19||A 45-year-old woman sanitation worker with the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) was the second sanitation worker in Delhi to succumb to Covid-19 on Thursday night. A 57-year-old sanitation worker with the South Delhi Municipal Corporation had died of the disease at the AIIMS Trauma Centre on April 25.“She was deployed on road cleaning duty in the Raghuwarpura ward near Gandhi Nagar and worked till May 5. She died at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital on Thursday night. She tested positive on May 12,” Arun Kumar, EDMC spokesperson, said.Kumar added that all procedures for employee welfare, as notified by Delhi Government, have been initiated. “We will recommend her case for the ₹1 crore compensation. Besides, we will see if appointment can be given on compassionate grounds to any of her family members, if qualified enough, and they will get the group insurance money as well,” he said.Meanwhile, the sanitation workers who worked with her during the last few days of her duty, will be quarantined and tested soon, EDMC officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/second-municipal-sanitation-worker-dies-of-covid-19/story-rsqHIqP9i2QMXiYH9rPugN.html
15-05-2020||City||Man held for posing as journalist and threatening police officials in Wazirabad||Gurugram: The police arrested a man for allegedly threatening and misbehaving with police officials while posing as a journalist of a television news channel in Wazirabad near Sector 52 on Thursday night. The police said during questioning, the accused man said that he had threatened the police to “throw his weight around” and “brag”. According to the police, the incident took place around 8pm when the accused man, identified as Deepak Kumar alias Sahil, a resident of Indra Colony in Sector 52, approached a police team on Covid duty in Wazirabad. Subash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said that the accused man approached a police constable and identified himself as a journalist from a television news channel.“The accused told the police team that they were not conducting their duties properly and threatened the policemen. When the police team asked him to show his identity card, he could not produce it, which raised their suspicion. He said that he was a resident of Ardee City and used a fake name,” said Boken.The police said a week ago, on May 8, the accused had allegedly threatened a police constable outside a liquor vend in Wazirabad village.The police constable who lodged the complaint, said, “I was stationed outside the liquor vend to ensure social distancing norms. The accused person accosted me and expressed frustration regarding the government’s directive to open liquor vends for the purpose of revenue collection. He alleged that police were not conducting their duty properly and that, as a journalist, he would expose them. He threatened that he had informed senior police officials of the situation and action would be taken against them.”the police said, following the argument on May 8, the accused man had gone back, only to return on Thursday.Boken said that during questioning, the accused man confessed that he wanted to “show off” that he was a journalist. A case was registered against him under sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 189 (threat of injury to public servant) and 419 (punishment for cheating by personation) of Indian Penal Code(IPC) at the Sector 53 police station on Thursday, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-held-for-posing-as-journalist-and-threatening-police-officials-in-wazirabad/story-Mqir42rH9ACoQkrpQFGDwK.html
15-05-2020||City||Nine test Covid-19 positive in Ggm; 23 patients discharged||Gurugram: Nine people, including six from Rajiv Nagar, were found positive for coronavirus on Friday, health department officials said. With the new cases, a total of 179 people have been infected with Sars-CoV-2 virus in Gurugram. As many as 23 patients were also discharged from the different hospitals on Friday, the highest number of patients discharged in a single day in Gurugram, the officials said.“Six cases from Rajiv Nagar are high-risk contacts of a family’s some members who were confirmed positive earlier this week,” said Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer. “An autorickshaw driver, a resident of Hari Nagar who had links with a Covid-19 positive vegetable seller from Khandsa mandi, was found positive for coronavirus,” he said. Besides, one case each from Gandhi Nagar and Basai Enclave has also been reported. It is to be noted that Rajiv Nagar, Khandsa and Basai Enclave are declared containment zones. Of the 179 positive cases, 89 people are undergoing treatment for the deadly virus while 90 have recovered so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nine-test-covid-19-positive-in-ggm-23-patients-discharged/story-JHQLKIgPCUw9G11OUvM0IP.html
15-05-2020||Lucknow||UP: Fresh cases to determine districts’ new tag||The UP health department on Friday decided to change the category of districts or localities that have been labelled as red, orange and green zones.This decision will be taken on the basis of the number of fresh coronavirus cases reported from these districts or localities.Principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad has sent a letter in this regard to the district magistrates of all the 75 districts in Uttar Pradesh.In the letter, Prasad said the union ministry of home affairs, in its missive on May 1, had stated that the districts were categorised as green, orange and red zones on the basis of risk- profiling.In that order, the home ministry also stated that the districts, in which no fresh coronavirus case was reported, will be categorized as green zones. District magistrates were directed to categorise the districts according to the MHA guideline, Prasad said in the letter.A health department officer said Covid cases were reported from all 75 districts of the state since the pandemic came to light. But, no cases were reported for 21 days in Ayodhya, Bareilly, Lalitpur and Badaun. There will now be no containment zone drive in those hotspots in which no case has been reported for 21 days. If a new case is reported in future, the hotspot action plan will be implemented accordingly, Prasad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-fresh-cases-to-determine-districts-new-tag/story-pNDhtx3UAdoOWb3WHN85eI.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Sitharaman’s agri package nothing but a jumla: Captain||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday termed Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s package for the agriculture sector as “nothing but a pack of jumlas”.“The so-called economic package offers no immediate relief to the distressed farmers, who are battling the stress of handling two major crops one after the other in extremely tough conditions,” said Amarinder.He said, “All three tranches of the much-awaited economic package announced so far have turned out to be a major disappointment for the targeted sections of the society. It is clear that the Centre has failed to come to rescue of people struggling due to covid crisis and lockdown.”“Farmers need immediate intervention, and not these so-called reform measures that have been long in the making and were not needed to be pushed through in haste at this critical juncture,” said Captain.The CM added that Punjab is one of the most hit states when it comes to agriculture. “We need support for farmers during the wheat harvesting and procurement season, which the Centre has failed to deliver. Despite repeated pleas, the Centre did not provide any incentive bonus to farmers for staggered procurement,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sitharaman-s-agri-package-nothing-but-a-jumla-captain/story-weBkzz5czwvjwCaLcEaKiM.html
15-05-2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: VV Rao, Shoma Sen seek interim bail in view of Covid-19||Vara Vara Rao and Dr Shoma Sen, two accused booked for their alleged role in the Elgar Parishad case, have moved the special court for interim bail in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Rao, 81, and Sen, 62, have separately approached the special court seeking interim bail on the grounds that as senior citizens, they are at high risk of contracting the virus. The special court has scheduled the matter for hearing by May 22.Rao, in his plea, stated that he has several ailments such as piles, prostrate enlargement, coronary artery disease, oedema/ anasarca (swelling of feet), hypertension, sinusitis, migraine, vertigo. Sen, too, has raised medical grounds and her age for interim bail.The special court has asked the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to file a reply on their bail pleas at the next hearing.The two had previously sought bail on health grounds amid Covid-19 outbreak. However, their pleas were rejected by the special court on March 31. The two have now sought interim bail pleading that they will abide by all conditions imposed by the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-vv-rao-shoma-sen-seek-interim-bail-in-view-of-covid-19/story-ef4XqOHGBKq5JWsvdGN0MK.html
15-05-2020||Mumbai||1 lakh migrants sent home, 4 lakh on waiting list: Mumbai Police||Around 1 lakh migrants who had registered with the Mumbai Police have been sent back home while as many as 4 lakh of them are still awaiting their turn. Pranaya Ashok, DCP (ops) and spokesperson for Mumbai Police, confirmed the development and added that most of these people are migrant labourers. Some migrants, however, have set out for their hometowns on foot or by private vehicles such as trucks and tempos, which is in violation of lockdown norms, as it is taking time for the government to make arrangements. “We are trying our best to send them back as soon as possible. We request them to wait till their turn comes,” said Ashok. There have been multiple instances of migrants crowding near police stations or railway stations hoping to leave the city, following which police had to resort to mild lathi-charge go disperse them. 14,000 migrants in eight trains left for UP, Bihar Since May 12 till Friday, a total of 14,000 migrants from zone 12 (Goregaon East to Dahisar East) of the Mumbai Police were sent back to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar in eight trains. About 90% of them were from UP, said a police officer. 13K migrants sent in nine trains from western suburbs About 13,500 migrants from western suburbs (Bandra to Jogeshwari and Sakinaka) left in nine special trains on Friday. Manjunath Singe, DCP zone 8, said three of the trains departed from Bandra Terminus station.Abhishek Trimukhe DCP zone 9 said, “From my zone, about 4,500 people including kids were sent back in three trains for Unnao, Gorakhpur and Varanasi.”Ankit Goyal, DCP zone 10, said, “On Friday, we sent 3,600 migrants to Basti and Banaras in three special trains from LTT station. Since the special train service started, we have sent around 15,000 migrants in 12 special trains.” 508 positive cases in Mumbai Police A total of 508 Mumbai Police personnel tested positive for Covid-19 till Friday whereas the number of cases in Maharashtra Police went up to 1,061. Of the patients, 174 personnel have recovered while 878 are being treated. A total of nine personnel have died including six from Mumbai, and one each from Pune, Solapur and Nashik rural. Two additional CP went on leaveAs the Mumbai Police are reeling under stress due to heavy workload to fight Covid-19 pandemic, two additional commissioners of police from western and central regions Manoj Kumar Sharma and S Veeresh Prabhu, respectively, went on leave on Thursday for health reasons. A senior officer on condition of anonymity said, Sharma has quarantined himself after his reader’s report came positive for Covid-19. Mumbai Police spokesperson and DCP (ops) Pranay Ashok said, “S Veeresh Prabhu’s test was conducted on Thursday and his report is negative. He has viral fever and is taking rest at home, so the charge has given to additional commissioner of police Dnyaneshwar Chavan.”“There is a lot of workload so they required rest for some days. So following rotation, both the officers are on leave” said Ashok.59 FIRs against 168 violators on Thursday The Mumbai Police on Thursday lodged 59 FIRs against 168 people and arrested 105 of them for lockdown violations. Of these, 24 FIRs were for gathering in one place, 13 for unnecessary use of vehicles, 10 for not wearing masks and remaining against shops for operating despite being non-essential services. A majority of FIRs were in west region with 21 cases, while south region reported 15 cases and central 11 cases. 384 Covid-19 related cybercrimes “The Maharashtra Police registered 384 cases including 16 non-cognisable complaints for Covid-19 related hate speech, fake news and other cybercrimes till Friday. A majority of these crimes are committed through WhatsApp and Facebook,” said Balsing Rajput, SP, Maharashtra Cyber. (Inputs from Suraj Ojha and Manish K Pathak)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/1-lakh-migrants-sent-home-4-lakh-on-waiting-list-mumbai-police/story-kED4Y8QKKlxplMfnpmNG0I.html
15-05-2020||Mumbai||Infected frontline contractual workers covered under central insurance scheme: Centre to HC||The Central government on Friday informed the Bombay high court (HC) that only contractual frontline workers from the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) who contracted Covid-19 as they were in direct contact with Covid-19 positive persons will be extended the benefits of the ₹50 lakh Central government insurance cover. NMMC submitted to the court that it would respond by Saturday regarding paying contractual workers ₹300 per day as allowance on a par with regular employees. The submissions were made while the cour was hearing a petition filed by a workers union, consisting more than 6,000 contractual workers, which complained that the workers cleaning the roads or collecting garbage were not being provided with safety equipment by the civic body. The single bench of justice SJ Kathawalla while hearing the petition which also sought daily allowance of ₹300 and insurance to nearly 6,277 contractual essential services workers, including 3,261 in solid waste management across 92 locations. The plea further stated that about 693 workers were employed in the health department across four hospitals in Navi Mumbai and were involved in cleaning duty.Advocate Bhavesh Parmar, along with Rahul Gaikwad and Nikita Abhyankar, appearing for the union submitted that the workers discharging essential services and reporting to work regularly are not being provided with any protective gear and hence are exposed to contracting the disease. The advocates cited instances of 24 contractual workers being quarantined after testing positive for the virus.While responding to the demands, additional solicitor general Anil Singh informed the court that only those contractual frontline workers who succumbed to the virus would be covered by the insurance scheme. NMMC, however, sought time till Saturday to decide on paying the ₹300 daily risk allowance being paid to all government employees involved in the battle against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/infected-frontline-contractual-workers-covered-under-central-insurance-scheme-centre-to-hc/story-4UmW1J5aV4B2fS87R6yDEL.html
15-05-2020||City||AYUSH dept distributes immunity booster tablets in containment zones||Gurugram: Amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Gurugram, the district ayurvedic officer has started distributing immunity booster tablets to the senior citizens residing in the containment zones.In the past 15 days, the Haryana AYUSH Department has sent out 23,000 packets of Guduchi Ghanvati for senior citizens and frontline workers in nine out of 34 containment zones in Gurugram, officials said. The department dispenses ayurvedic medicines through all the district ayurvedic officers in the state. “We have been distributing the medicines for the past two weeks,” said Manju Bangar, district AYUSH officer. The medicines are handed over to the MCG councillor of the respective area for further distribution.In Dundahera, which has reported 21 Covid-19 positive cases till now, around 2,000 packets of Guduchi Ghanvati were given to the MCG councillor on Thursday. Virender Yadav, MCG councillor, Dundahera, said he has distributed the medicines to some senior citizens. “Some AYUSH workers had come to my locality on Thursday and they gave me around 2,000 packets of ayurvedic medicines,” Yadav said. A week ago, such medicine packets of similar quantity were given to the MCG councillor of Jharsa where 37 Covid-19 cases have come till now. Hemant Kumar, councillor, Jharsa, said, “The AYUSH team had given the medicines to me. I have distributed 40 packets till now and rest of the medicines will be given out soon.”Along with the medicines, the AYUSH team has given a feedback form to the area councillors or society presidents which they have to give to the senior citizens so that the AYUSH department can know if people are actually consuming these immunity booster medicines. Bangar said, “We have told the councillors/society presidents to ask senior citizens to fill in a feedback form so that we can also know if they are using the medicines or not. In the present scenario, we will have to wait for the form to reach us.”On Friday, Gurugram reported nine new Covid-19 cases, taking the total tally of positive cases to 179 in the district.Dr Geetanjali Arora, Panchakarma specialist, AYUSH Gurugram, said that it is not possible to give the medicines to every household in a containment zone. “Area councillors and society presidents have been given the task of distributing the medicines to the senior citizens.”Initially, the AYUSH department was providing Guduchi Ghanvati and Anu Tel (oil), but now it is only distributing Guduchi Ghanvati. “We were earlier giving Guduchi Ghanvati and Anu Tel. But now we are not distributing Anu Tel due to supply shortage,” said Bangar.Guduchi Ghanvati is believed to help keep cells healthy and get rid of diseases. The application of Anu tel (oil) helps in reducing any respiratory inflammation, AYUSH officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ayush-dept-distributes-immunity-booster-tablets-in-containment-zones/story-78KRAbbsMogZaoXORALWRP.html
15-05-2020||Delhi||Human rights’ body takes cognizance of racial attack on Manipur woman||The National Human Rights Commission on Friday took suo motu cognisance of a racial attack on a woman from Manipur in Haryana. The 20-year-old was allegedly subjected to racial discrimination and brutally attacked by locals from Faizapur, Gurugram in Haryana just for passing through the locality on Sunday afternoon.Reportedly, she was saved by people and police were called. The NHRC noted, “The police instead of initiating the requisite legal process, asked the victim to compromise. Accordingly, a notice has been issued to the chief secretary and the commissioner of police, Gurugram, calling for a detailed report within four weeks along with status of the investigation and counselling provided by the authorities to the victim.”The Commission would also like to know about present health condition of the victim and the status of the medical treatment being provided to her by the district authorities, it added.The Commission further observed that it is “disgusting” that a woman from North-Eastern part of her own country has been subjected to racial discrimination and physical assault by a local family in the NCR region.Reportedly, the victim was stopped by an elderly woman, who rudely interrupted her from passing through the road stating that it was a private property.The woman reportedly abused her in a racial tone and as the altercation started, the victim was called “corona”.In the meantime, the other family members also came out and started beating the victim with sticks. The woman, who was also hit on her head, was somehow saved by some local people and the police was called.NHRC said the victim is reportedly undergoing medical treatment and her CT scan results are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/human-rights-body-takes-cognizance-of-racial-attack-on-manipur-woman/story-5LSBoJ9i56KWRtBd4fVtLK.html
15-05-2020||Mumbai||Monsoon onset in city to be delayed beyond June 11: IMD||The onset of the southwest monsoon over the city is likely to be delayed beyond June 11, the weather bureau said on Friday. Independent meteorologists said that the monsoon’s arrival over Mumbai was unlikely before June 15.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday issued its forecast for the onset of the southwest monsoon over Kerala on June 5 with a model error of ± 4 days while the advancement over the Andaman Sea, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, and some parts of southeast Bay of Bengal is expected over the next 48 hours.“Since there is a delay over Kerala, we can infer that there will be delay over nearby areas extending up to Maharashtra. We can further infer that it will be slightly delayed for Mumbai from its new onset date of June 11,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director-general, IMD.Many factors were considered to determine the date of onset for Kerala, said Mohapatra, including a low pressure weather system that is likely to intensify into cyclone Amphan over southeast Bay of Bengal. “Once it becomes a severe cyclonic storm moving north-northeast, it will influence the surrounding environment by pulling moisture, affecting the progression of the southwest monsoon. As the cyclonic system dies down, further monsoon progression is expected,” he said.Last year, Mumbai witnessed its most delayed monsoon onset in 45 years after the southwest monsoon was declared over the city on June 25, 2019. In 2018, it had arrived on June 9 and in 2017, on June 12.HT had reported on April 16 that the duration of the southwest monsoon over Mumbai has been extended by eight days after the weather bureau announced revised monsoon onset and withdrawal dates. The new onset date for Mumbai is June 11 (against June 10 originally) and the new withdrawal date has been declared as October 8 against the existing September 29.Akshay Deoaras, independent meteorologist and Ph.D. researcher at the University of Reading said the coming cyclone was not the only reason for the delay. “Another important reason for the delay was the lack of support of phenomena such as the Madden-Julian Oscillation [a rain-bearing weather system]. “The presence of such factors can speed up the monsoon’s progression along the west coast,” said Deoras. “Current forecasts don’t indicate a robust progression of the monsoon towards Maharashtra after its onset over Kerala. We can anticipate its arrival in Maharashtra in the third week of June, resulting in a delay of a week in southern parts of Konkan while arrival in Mumbai, most of Vidarbha, Marathwada and central Maharashtra is unlikely before June 15.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/monsoon-onset-in-city-to-be-delayed-beyond-june-11-imd/story-uVb1UbchxitUDkQBIn3VjM.html
15-05-2020||Mumbai||Lockdown wishlist: Ingredients, dishwasher, high-speed internet top Mumbaiites’ list||What do you miss the most during lockdown? What will be the first thing you will buy post-lockdown?As most people are dwelling on these questions now, Mumbaiites and Delhiites have given their verdict. According to a survey covering mainly these two cities, 63% respondents said they wish for an endless supply of cooking ingredients, 35% wish for a full-time house-help, while 32% want dishwashers and 33% want high-speed internet.The survey also reveals that 13% of those surveyed want to buy a new phone post-lockdown, while 10% wish to purchase a dishwasher or a new washing machine. When asked about the first thing they plan to do once lockdown is lifted or eased, 32% said they want a grooming session at the salon while 20% said they want some form of outdoor activity.The survey, undertaken by advisory firm The Mavericks looked at 600 respondents, mainly from Mumbai (24%) and Delhi (41%) and other Indian cities (35%), to gauge behavioural changes as well as customer expectations after lockdown ends.Chetan Mahajan, CEO of The Mavericks, said, “With people being stuck at home for a long time, there are a lot of things they wish they had to survive this period. Working couples wish they had some help because they completely depended on their domestic helps as a support system.”Of the respondents, 67% also said they will not travel for six months unless absolutely essential, while 24% said they will not go to movie halls before six months. When asked about habits that people have left behind, 65% said they have stopped eating outside, while 13% have stopped smoking and drinking.Sixty-one per cent of those surveyed also said they are facing issues related to mental health owing to the lockdown, uncertainty and financial crises. A majority of respondents are also eager to get back to office as working from home is proving to be challenging for 75%. 63% are also looking at a healthier lifestyle with focus on personal fitness and immunity-building.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lockdown-wishlist-ingredients-dishwasher-high-speed-internet-top-mumbaiites-list/story-8a8icoZ46KBzx3V6WJqShK.html
15-05-2020||City||Noida: 10 trains to carry nearly 15,000 migrant labourers to Bihar in next four days||Noida: Nearly 15,000 migrant labourers will leave Gautam Budh Nagar in 10 Shramik special trains for their home towns in Bihar in the next four days starting Saturday, district administration officials said on Friday. The administration will also provide food packets to the passengers, they said. These special trains, to be run from Dadri and Dankaur railway stations, will be going to 10 different districts of Bihar between May 16 and 19.According to the officials, on May 16, four special trains will depart from Dadri and Dankaur railway stations. The first train will leave at 11am and then at 3pm from Dadri. Two trains will depart at 12pm and 4pm from Dankaur. These four trains will go to Aurangabad, Buxar, Sasaram (Rohtas) and Siwan in Bihar.On May 17, two trains will leave for Jamui and Samastipur districts in Bihar, while another two trains will leave for Chhapra and Bihar Sharif the next day. On May 19, two trains will go to Saharsa and Gaya, the officials said.In the district, there are 55,000 migrant labourers who want to go back to their home towns in Bihar, the officials said, adding that arrangements will be made soon to send back the remaining workers. “We have made all the required arrangements for the safe and comfortable journey of migrant workers going back to Bihar. We will be giving food packets for their journey. To ensure that no social distancing norms are broken, people with the messages received from the administration will only be allowed to catch the train or the bus which will be dropping them to the railway stations,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, GB Nagar.The DM also said that one train will carry around 1,200 to 1,500 passengers depending on the number of bogies attached.Thousands of migrant workers have registered themselves at the local police stations or online through the Integrated Grievance Redressal System to go back to their respective home states by filling a form with their contact and destination details. The administration will be sending a message on the mobile phone numbers of these labourers which will act as a ticket to board the train, the officials said. The workers will have to show the message on their phones to the officers at the railway station to board the train. The same mobile phone message will work as ticket to board the bus from various points in GB Nagar to reach the railway station. According to the officials, it is expected that the district has over 1.25 lakh migrant labourers who want to go back to their home states. The administration is making a list of workers who have applied to go back to their home states.The district officials are also getting in touch with other states to arrange travel facilities for the migrant workers who want to go back. Workers from other parts of Uttar Pradesh will be sent back in buses, and if the need be, then by trains too, the officials said. Till now, over 1,000 homeless migrant workers hailing from various districts of UP have been sent back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-10-trains-to-carry-nearly-15-000-migrant-labourers-to-bihar-in-next-four-days/story-keGvSEjeyqBWcRV3qA2rEM.html
15-05-2020||City||Delhi doctor wins global funding to deal with Covid-19||London: Radhika Batra, a Delhi-based doctor engaged in manufacturing personal protection equipment (PPE) to help in the fight against the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease in India, Kenya and Nigeria, is one of the five recipients of funding by a global forum of young leaders called One Young World.Partnering with the Bill and Melinda Gates foundation and United Way, a non-profit organisation (NPO), to launch the Covid-19 Young Leaders Fund, the organisers said Friday that the fund is supported by Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, Archbishop Desmond Tutu and Actor Emma Watson, among others.Batra founded Every Infant Matters, an NPO, which in response to the pandemic is leveraging its network of partners to provide resources to at-risk people in India and Kenya, with plans to expand operations to Nigeria, the fund organisers said.In India, the organisation provides protective materials (such as hand sanitisers, face shields, gloves and N-95 masks) to frontline personnel, including doctors, nurses and hospital workers such as housekeeping and sanitation staff, ambulance drivers, and security guards.Each project is allocated between £5,000 and £10,000, the allocation being dependent on what is enough to ensure they are able to carry out their services, the organisers said, adding that the fund currently stands at a cumulative of £175,000.The other recipients of the funding are Rinesh Sharma (Fiji), Heidy Quah (Malaysia), Achaleke Christian (Cameroon) and Jolyon Layard Horsfall (UK).Ella Robertson of One Young World said: “Young leaders are part of the most connected, informed and resourceful generation in human history… We now need to ensure they have the funds needed to tackle some of the largest issues created by Covid-19”.The fund organisers said that statistics based on figures collected from 1,000 young leaders globally show that 72% of the respondents have volunteered some of their time to help during this pandemic. The survey was done by the organisers of the fund.The fund has been established to provide the immediate distribution of finance to young leaders on the frontlines of the response to Covid–19, with donations distributed across countries and sectors.Jayathma Wickramanayake, a United Nations special envoy for youth, added: “The Covid-19 Young Leaders Fund is exactly the bold action that is required to champion young people who are so bravely combating the coronavirus disease on the frontlines”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-doctor-wins-global-funding-to-deal-with-covid-19/story-1LfRzaCxuIMzaJbG0x4j4L.html
15-05-2020||Delhi||Most DU students lack resources, material to give online exams||Twenty-year-old Sachin Pathak, a student of Delhi University, is worried about his final-year exams in July. Reason? His phone’s keypad is not working. And the phone is to be shared with his sibling—another final-year student of DU. They are residents of Delhi’s Burari area where father works as a daily wage labourer.“I don’t even have a touch-screen phone. How is it possible for me to finish my paper within two hours with such slow Internet and then look for a place where I can scan it and upload it within an hour? The cyber cafes, if open, will have a queue,” Pathak, who wants to apply for jobs after getting his degree, said.“I have plans to study via correspondence and apply for jobs to support my family. If the exams are conducted online, I will not be able to score well,” he added.Hundreds of DU students like Pathak posted their concerns on social media on Friday using the hashtag #DUAgainstOnlineExams which had over 48,000 tweets till Friday evening. The “Twitter storm” comes a day after DU announced that it may conduct an open-book online examination for final-year students if the Covid-19 situation prevented it from holding a regular pen-and-paper examination. Using memes and video messages, students highlighted their concerns about the online open-book examination, including poor Internet connectivity, lack of access to devices, inability to download reading material, risk of impersonation, and lack of familiarity with the open-book examination mode.While the notification released on Thursday refers to final-year students, first- and second-year students are also anxious about their mode of examination. Harsh Suri, a resident of Kashmir and a first-year student in Hindu College, said, “We’re stressed because there is no clarity yet. Students from Jammu and Kashmir are neither able to attend their online classes nor download 100 MB reading material on the 2G network. Even laptops don’t work on 2G network and we are unable to research for our assignments. How are we supposed to give our exams? Even to tweet against the online exam took me 20 minutes.”Amal K Simon, another final-year student and a resident of Kerala, said, “We don’t have reading material at home and everything is in Delhi. Besides, we have never appeared for any kind of open-book test before and are not trained for it. So many of my friends from remote areas run the risk of having their job offers rescinded because they will be unable to appear for these exams.”The Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad on Friday submitted a memorandum to DU vice-chancellor asking for wider consultation with all stakeholders and recommending measures like multiple modes of examination and the promotion of intermediate students based on their earlier marks. The Vice-Chancellor was unavailable for comment.Meanwhile, the varsity’s Covid-19 task force constituted to look into academic matters during the pandemic, on Friday, wrote to all principals asking them to compile e-resources to help students. “There are many students who don’t have their books. So we have asked principals to identify and share e-resources which can be compiled by us and sent to students who can use them,” Payal Mago, a member of the task force, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/most-du-students-lack-resources-material-to-give-online-exams/story-VvVPFzCIpDbtOsK9W7zXkN.html
15-05-2020||Delhi||South district admin says JNU should allow stranded students back on campus||The South Delhi district administration on Friday wrote to the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), raising issues faced by its students stranded in the NCR due to the Covid-19 lockdown. The district administration has suggested the university allow these students back into the campus taking all precautions.In a letter addressed to JNU vice-chancellor Jagadesh Kumar and registrar Pramod Kumar, sub-divisional magistrate (Mehrauli) office wrote, “It’s to inform that several emails have been received in this office from the students of JNU regarding denied of entry into the campus due to fear of COVID-19 infection. Students have also informed that they are facing difficulties as their money have exhausted and requested their entry into the campus to stay in their respective allotted hostels [sic].”“Keeping in view the severity of the situation, JNU may approach the district surveillance officer for medical screening of the students who are willing to enter the campus to avoid hardships to them at this critical juncture [sic],” the letter added.The university had, on March 19, asked the students to vacate their hostels citing the lockdown announced by the Delhi government. Following this, several students had left for their homes or their friends’ or relative’s places. The remaining students were allowed to stay back in hostels after the nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24 and public transport facilities were suspended. The university, however, had prohibited the entry and exit of students from the campus citing safety measures.JNU Students’ Union (JNUSU) president Aishe Ghosh said that the union has written to the administration requesting them to allow the students stranded in the NCR back to their hostels. “The students can be screened and can be asked to quarantine themselves for the appropriate amount of time. The campus has adequate space that can be utilised as a quarantine facility. We have written to the district magistrate office as well,” she said.South Delhi district magistrate BM Mishra said that considering the hardships of stranded students, his office has suggested the JNU administration allow them entry to the campus.A final-year PhD scholar, who did not wish to be quoted, said that she had to leave the campus on March 21.”I had come to Munirka to live with a friend, thinking that I’d be back to the campus within a few days. When the lockdown was extended, her parents took her back to their home in Noida. Now I’ve been living here alone and the landlord is asking me for the rent. I can’t afford the rent. I’m totally out of money,” she said.Both the JNU vice-chancellor and registrar did not respond to calls and texts for comment. A senior official, who wished not to be named, said, “The university will discuss this and will soon make a decision keeping in mind the safety and security of the JNU community.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/south-district-admin-says-jnu-should-allow-stranded-students-back-on-campus/story-L0suExH8DXd66wnlqHGK5L.html
15-05-2020||City||NHRC notices to Punjab, UP over reports of woman pulling suitcase with child||NEW DELHIThe National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has sent notices to the Punjab and Uttar Pradesh governments over reports of a migrant woman pulling a suitcase with her child sleeping half hung on it on the Agra highway during the ongoing novel coronavirus-induced lockdown.The rights panel in a statement on Friday observed that it is aware of the unprecedented situation and that the central and state governments are working sincerely to address every issue coming up during the lockdown.“But it is strange that the pain of the child and the family could be seen and felt by many en route, except local authorities,” the NHRC) said.Had local authorities been vigilant, some relief could have immediately been provided to the aggrieved family and others facing similar hardships, it said.“The incident amounts to violation of human rights and requires intervention by the NHRC,” the rights panel said.The NHRC said, accordingly, it has issued notices to the chief secretaries of Punjab and Uttar Pradesh and the district magistrate of Agra, seeking a detailed report within four weeks, including action taken against officials responsible, and relief and assistance provided to the victim family.The commission observed that “several news reports about miseries of people have come to its notice during the lockdown, forcing it to intervene in order to sensitise central and the state authorities to deal with the situation with an approach of respect to human rights of the public at large, particularly the vulnerable sections of society”.However, media reports suggest continuing sufferings of people, particularly migrant labourers, whose long journeys are not coming to a halt, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nhrc-notices-to-punjab-up-over-reports-of-woman-pulling-suitcase-with-child/story-4K1oHmGqoaW0K9KwWvObLP.html
15-05-2020||City||Gzb chalks out plan to deal with rising cases in Khoda||Ghaziabad: The district health department has chalked out a plan to deal with the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Khoda, a densely populated locality that has seen 26 positive cases so far, officials said on Friday. The health department has deputed 100 teams, each comprising three health workers, for conducting the door-to-door survey in the area, which was sealed on May 10. “Besides, we have also deployed five expert teams in different sectors of Khoda who are taking up random sampling. Each team comprises a doctor, a pharmacist and a lab technician. Further, our teams are also distributing medicines to the residents in Khoda and we have planned that at least two face masks will be given to each household through CSR funds,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO).The Ghaziabad district on Thursday had seen 19 new Covid-19 cases, of which eight were from Khoda, the officials said, adding that one positive case was found from the locality on Wednesday during the random sampling.“Majority of cases in Khoda have links to people who had attended religious congregations. The Khoda locality is already sealed by the administration and we expect that we will be able to contain the number of cases as people are staying indoors,” Gupta said.Located between Ghaziabad, Noida and Delhi, Khoda has an estimated population of about 2.85 lakh living in about 42,000 households. The district administration on May 10 had sealed 50 out of 52 entry points in Khoda and restricted the entry of residents. The officials further said that some cases have also come in from Vaishali, Jhandapur and Loni, and health teams are actively trying to control the spread of deadly virus in these areas too. On Friday, three new Covid-19 cases were reported in Ghaziabad, taking the total count of positive cases in the district to 172, the officials said. They added that one case each was reported from Shalimar Garden and Vaishali Sector-1, while a two years old baby girl from Dasna has also tested positive for the deadly virus.“The child’s mother is a Covid-19 patient,” the CMO added.Of the 172 positive cases, 106 patients have been discharged from different hospitals so far while two have died. A total of 568 reports are still pending, the officials said.Gupta said that to clear off the pending tests, the state officials have asked for taking up sampling of only high-risk cases or those showing symptoms.“The message has been received from state officials that sampling for the next three days will be done only for high-risk cases and also for those who show any symptoms. The high-risk category includes people who are primary contacts of Covid-19 positive cases or those who are affected by severe acute respiratory infection,” the CMO added.On Thursday, the district magistrate’s office did not release the daily statement of Covid-19 cases, but the statement by the state surveillance officer revealed 19 new cases in Ghaziabad. Besides, five more positive cases from Wednesday were added to the Thursday’s new cases by the health department officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gzb-chalks-out-plan-to-deal-with-rising-cases-in-khoda/story-PmkD8yOz5JkTPf7K7pm0pO.html
15-05-2020||City||1,420 leave for home in Bihar in first Sharmik special train from Ghaziabad||The first Sharmik special train, ferrying migrant workers to Bihar, departed from Ghaziabad junction Friday evening. As many as 1,420 persons who were stranded in the city after the nationwide lockdown was imposed boarded the train and will reach their home towns such as Muzaffarpur, Chappra and Hajipur in Bihar on Saturday.The officials of the Ghaziabad district administration said more trains will be roped in to take workers to their home towns.On Friday afternoon, hundreds of passengers who had received text messages about confirmed seats on the train had reached the Ghanta Ghar Ramlila Ground where arrangements for checking their IDs and screening them for symptoms of coronavirus disease(Covid-19) had been put in place. They were later taken in Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) to Ghaziabad railway station, about 1km away.“I had applied on the UP government portal— jansunwai.up.nic.in— a week ago to go back home, and received a text message on my mobile on Thursday. The message said that I should reach Ramlila Ground around 2pm. Since the company in Noida’s Sector 62 where I used to work is shut, I have no option but to return to my hometown Muzaffarpur,” said Manish Kumar, one of the first passengers to board the train.Officials said the passengers did not have to pay for the tickets which were issued to them after they were screened at Ramlila Ground.Laxman Mahto was stuck in Loni since the lockdown came into force on March 25 boarded the 20-coach train with five other family members. He had come from Muzaffarpur to visit his daughter on March 15.“I had booked a ticket to return home in March, but the train was cancelled due to the lockdown. For the past two months, I had been staying in Loni. A neighbour got us registered on the UP government portal and we booked six seats to return to Bihar. These seats were confirmed through an SMS on Friday and we arrived at the Ramlila Ground,” said Mahto.However, many people who want to go to their homes in Bihar were not able to get a confirmed seat on the train, and will have to wait longer. “On Thursday, I had got a call on my mobile asking me if I wish to go to my home town in Bihar but had not received any SMS. When I arrived at Ramlila Ground, officials told me that I will have to wait as I had not received a confirmatory SMS which is must for boarding the train. I even vacated my rented room in Karhera, and came here in the hope to board the train,” Mahesh Saini, who is an ice-cream vendor and is from Chappra in Bihar, added.Ramzan Ali, who is from Saran district in Bihar, and had come from Khoda said only two of his eight family members received confirmatory messages and the rest will have to wait.Siddhanth Mishra, a cloth trader in Khoda village, had registered 11 of his family members and was lucky enough to leave for home with all of them. “ We will be travelling to our home town Nalanda, which is about 150km from Muzaffarpur, where the train will drop us. We received the SMS two days ago and were ready with our luggage. I know how to use the internet and mobile applications, so we registered on the portal and are now heading home. But I also feel bad for other migrant workers who don’t know how to use smartphones and internet, and are headed home on foot with their children and belongings,” Mishra said.There were many people from other states who had reached Ramlila Grounds hoping they will be able to go home as well.“After I reached here, I was told that train will ferry passengers going to Bihar. I had vacated my rented room in Delhi, and arrived here to go to my home town in Mau district in UP. It seems we will now have to look for a shelter home here. We will wait in Ghaziabad, and see if we can get a train or a UPSRTC bus that might be plying from Morta” said Kripa Shankar Pandey, who had come with his wife and children from Gandhinagar in Delhi.Many who are fortunate enough to be able to head home hope they will find a stable source of income in search of which they had come to cities like Delhi, Noida and Ghaziabad.“I hope that I get a job in my home town in Vaishali district in Bihar. I think I will not return to the city, and just want to reach my home somehow. My landlord in Khoda has been very helpful. Since I got seats for my family, I vacated my rented room and somehow arrived here from Khoda. The SMS I received allowed my family to move out of Khoda which has been sealed because of the coronavirus outbreak,” said Santosh Kumar who worked as a driver in Delhi. After the lockdown, Kumar was left out of work and decided to head home.Officials said until Thursday, as many as 37,438 persons had registered themselves with the UP government portal for travelling from Ghaziabad to Bihar.“Those who did not receive a confirmatory SMS will have to wait for some more time. We cleared the boarding passes of about 1,420 persons for the first train to Bihar. In the next few days, we expect that more trains will head towards this and other routes. We will also soon receive the list of people who have registered on the portal want to go to other states,” said Sanjay Kumar, officer on special duty, Ghaziabad Development Authority(GDA), who is also in-charge of travel arrangements of migrant workers in the district.“The migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh who have not registered on the portal are also being taken in UPSRTC buses from Morta,” he added.Additional district magistrate Santosh Kumar Vaishya said there was around a two-hour delay in departure of the train as there were a lot of people at the station who had to be screened and allotted seats. The scheduled departure time of the train was 7pm, but it left the station at 9.10pm. “We have issued nearly 1420 boarding passes. The train will directly stop at three stations of Muzaffarpur, Chappra and Hajipur in Bihar. All passengers were screened and food packets were also provided to them,” he added.According to district officials so far, nearly 17,007 migrant workers, including 10,219 from UP, have been sent to their home towns with the help of 461 buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-420-leave-for-home-in-bihar-in-first-sharmik-special-train-from-ghaziabad/story-hBfMkEYkq0Ug9PyPCBcMnO.html
15-05-2020||City||Neighbour arrested for molesting minor||Noida:A 20-year-old man was arrested on Friday for allegedly molesting a seven-year-old girl in his house on Wednesday afternoon.According to the Noida police, the girl studies in a government school, and had gone out to play when the incident took place.“According to the complaint, filed by the girl’s mother, she had been playing outside the house on Wednesday afternoon while the parents were inside. While she was playing, the suspect lured her in, on the pretext of playing ludo with her,” said Amit Kumar Singh, station house officer, Phase 3 police station.“After the girl returned home, she told her mother about the incident, after which the family approached us and an FIR was filed, and the girl was sent for a medical examination, which did not confirm rape. The suspect fled his house after the incident,” Singh said.The girl’s parents are daily wage workers.Based on the woman’s complaint, the suspect was booked under Section 376 (punishment for rape) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (Pocso).He was arrested near the power house at Mamura crossing on Friday morning and produced before a magistrate, after which he was sent to jail.According to the police, the suspect hails from Hardoi district and was living with his sister in Noida. On Tuesday, Phase 3 police had arrested a 19-year-old man from the same area for allegedly raping and impregnating a 15-year-old friend girl.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/neighbour-arrested-for-molesting-minor/story-OHCk8ACF9GtHkWEmKIR0SO.html
15-05-2020||Delhi||Ground heroes aid essential cargo||Keeping the world running amid the Covid-19 pandemic are the front line warriors such as medical professionals, who are fighting this battle equipped with a constant supply of PPE kits, masks and gloves. And hundreds of people working at the airports have devoted themselves to smoothen the process of import, transport and distribution of such products. At Delhi airport, there are almost 400 people working round the clock to avoid glitches in the supply. As a part of the government’s Lifeline Udan initiative, as of May 11 with the help of 506 flights, 862.39 tons of essential cargo have been transported to different parts of the country. Convincing their families has been the biggest challenge for most. “I haven’t met my mother for 20 days, and for their safety, I prefer staying away. She has been worried for me but understands the importance. I always wanted to serve the nation and this is my chance,” says Anshul Gupta, project head (medical supplies) and cargo manager.Sanskiriti Yadav, assistant manager, cargo, says that she is staying in Delhi, away from her Lucknow-based parents, but is disheartened at the behaviour of her neighbours. “I walk four kilometers daily to reach my workplace. My neighbours look at me in disgust and ask me to stay at home for their safety, but what I’m doing is for the safety of millions,” adds Yadav. “To keep my team motivated, as some haven’t met their families for weeks, we have meetings and sessions every morning. I tell them to perform yoga and have immunity boosters. They are informed on a daily basis about precautions to be taken during this time,” explains Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ground-heroes-aid-essential-cargo/story-EUZermMmtuRL29SHvJxNFK.html
15-05-2020||City||Woman’s body found floating in Dera Bassi pond||The half-naked body of an unidentified woman was found floating in a pond in Saidpura village in Dera Bassi on Friday morning.Police said the woman was tied to a chair and then thrown into the pond.The body was spotted by a few villagers, who sounded the police.It was fished out and moved to the mortuary at the Dera Bassi civil hospital where it will be kept for 72 hours for identification before an autopsy is conducted.Investigators said the body appeared to be around 10 days old. Police are working to identify the deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-s-body-found-floating-in-dera-bassi-pond/story-XKaNWfbAFmTG7qTZ3UVhnM.html
15-05-2020||City||Covid quarantine: Hotels identified in Mohali for people returning from abroad||The district administration has identified hotels and motels where Indian nationals returning from abroad via various airports in the region will be quarantined.The hotels will charge daily tariff and food as per the rates fixed by the office of the district magistrate.A nodal officer, appointed for the purpose, will monitor the process. Helpdesks will be set up at the airports itself, where passengers will be informed about the hotels available for quarantine. The passengers will then be transported to the hotels picked by them.Medical teams deputed by the civil surgeon will screen all passengers at the entry points, and any symptomatic patients will be taken to hospitals or appropriate quarantine centres.The passengers from other districts arriving in Mohali via the Chandigarh International Airport will be sent to their respective districts and the deputy commissioners will be informed.Mohali residents arriving via the Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi will report to the Palm Resort in Dera Bassi where they will be informed about the quarantine hotels by the helpdesks. Those coming through the Amritsar airport will report at the Radha Soami Satsang Bhawan in Sector 76, Mohali. Passengers unable to pay for hotels will be taken to the quarantine facility at Chandigarh University in Gharuan or another appropriate facility. While the stay here will be free, meal expenses will be borne by the passenger. Details of all such passengers will be sent to the Covid cell set up at state/district level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-quarantine-hotels-identified-in-mohali-for-people-returning-from-abroad/story-VnPoAMlxoYZNjLsio4wGzK.html
15-05-2020||Patna||Facilitate early return of migrants to mitigate risk of infections: Nitish to officials||Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday directed officials to complete the process for early evacuation of migrant workers, particularly from places with high incidence of Covid-19 infections, by special trains and also initiate steps for reimbursing the amount spent on rail fare, along with an additional amount of Rs 500, into the bank accounts of all those serving their mandatory quarantine period upon their arrival.“Any delay in bringing back migrant workers, especially from locations having high incidence of Coronavirus spread, will only increase the risk of being exposed to the threat of getting infected,” he said, while presiding over a high level meeting to review the situation. The move assumes significance after the number of Covid cases in the state coincided with the arrival of migrant workers as many of them have tested positive. The state government has already given nod for the running of a large number of Shramik Special trains, originating from different states, to facilitate the return of stranded migrant workers. In addition to giving permission to press buses for ferrying them back, it has also allowed small vehicles to be pressed into service for the purpose of bringing them back from nearby states and locations.With media reports highlighting the plight of migrant workers, a sizeable number of whom started to trudge back home on foot in the absence of proper co-ordination, chief minster also issued an appeal asking them not to walk or make detours to reach the state. “Adequate steps are in place to facilitate your return. There is no need for putting yourself to such hardship,” he said.“All those who have reached railway station or the borders of the state will be sent to their native places by suitable transport. There is absolutely no need to walk. All you need to do is to inform the nearest police station of the block office and arrangements will be made for forward journey,” the chief minister said.He also directed officials to maintain proper arrangements at the designated quarantine centres and assured migrant workers that there was no cause for apprehension even as he appealed to all those put up at these centres to maintain discipline and co-operate with the administration.“Observing the mandatory quarantine period with norms prescribed for social distancing and hygiene is in the overall interest of the concerned, their families and society,” Kumar said, in an apparent hint at stray instances of attempts to create disturbance by inmates at few places.As for the expenditure incurred on rail fare for boarding special trains, Kumar asked officials to complete advance planning for the reimbursement of the amount spent, along with an additional sum of Rs 500, into the account of all those staying at quarantine centres.The state government has mandated that the amount would be directly transferred into the bank accounts of all those completing the compulsory 21-day quarantine period. “In any event, the amount will not be less than Rs 1,000 announced for each of the migrant workers stranded in the places f their work, in wake of the nationwide lockdown,” Kumar said, reiterating government’s decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/facilitate-early-return-of-migrants-to-mitigate-risk-of-infections-nitish-to-officials/story-xZvHu9VDduJSowRM0bFwxM.html
15-05-2020||Patna||Covid cases top 1,000 in Bihar, 100 in capital; migrants account for 44%||The incoming migrants contributed to a steady spurt in coronavirus, adding to 44% of Bihar’s 1,018 cases, with seven deaths so far, after 19 people tested positive for Sars-CoV-2 on Friday.Covid-19 cases in Patna touched 100 on a day when Bihar breached the 1,000-mark barrier since the first three Sars-CoV-2 cases were reported in the state on March 22.Khagaria and Siwan reported five cases each, followed by Vaishali, Jamui, Madhubani (2 each) and Nawada, Lakhisarai and Patna (1 each).Thirty-two among those infected by the virus so far in the state were policemen, of which 22 belonged to the Bihar Military Police (BMP), while 10 others were from the district police constabulary, said Jitendra Kumar, additional director general of police (headquarters) during a joint media briefing.“The district cops, who tested positive, had returned from leave. We kept them at quarantine centres and tested them before being allowed to rejoin duty, which is when they tested positive. Eight of the 10 cops had recovered,” he added.“The number of cases of coronavirus has gone up after May 3, when 391 workers tested Covid-19 positive among the total 449 migrants infected by the virus so far,” said health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh.Of the 391 migrants testing positive, 122 had come from New Delhi, 105 from Gujarat, 77 from Maharashtra, 23 from West Bengal and 21 from Haryana, besides some other states, he added.As on date, 2.72 lakh migrant workers were staying at 5,162 block quarantine camps, after 2,46,160 migrant workers had reached Bihar by 195 Shramik Special trains till May 14, said Anupam Kumar, secretary, information and public relations department.He said 36 such trains were scheduled to reach Bihar on Friday and 40 others were planned for Saturday.The chief minister had asked his officials to arrange for expeditious transportation of as many migrants from the state who wanted to return because their risk of contracting the infection was higher in event of delay in returning to the state. Kumar said a “senior officer” had tested positive for the virus when he went to a quarantine camp to address an issue, involving some people, who had tested positive and were residing there.He, however, refused to disclose the officer’s rank.Meanwhile, the health department was making concerted efforts to scale up Covid-19 testing in the state.Singh said testing using TrueNat machines would commence in the next 24-48 hours at the Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College in Gaya, the Vardhaman Institute of Medical Sciences, Pawapuri, and at Siwan.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar had on May 7 directed officials to procure these machines and install them at all district hospitals for speedy coronavirus test results. He has also directed officials to ramp up state’s Covid-19 testing capacity.The Indian Council of Medical Research had recently okayed the diagnostic machines, generally used for testing drug-resistant tuberculosis, in an effort to bolster testing capacity.At the moment, Bihar is testing around 1,900 to 2,000 samples on an average daily. Kumar wants it to be scaled up to 10,000.With 27 Covid-19 patients having been cured in the last 24 hours, the total number of recoveries in the state went up to 438.As of Friday, Munger reported 122 cases, followed by Patna (100), Rohtas (77), Nalanda (66), Buxar (59), Begusarai (47), Siwan (43), Kaimur (33), Khagaria (41), Bhagalpur (33), Madhubani (32), Bhojpur (29), Jehanabad, Nawada (26 each), West Champaran (25), Gopalganj (24), Aurangabad, Muzaffarpur (18 each), Darbhanga (16 each), East Champaran (15), Banka (14), Lakhisarai (13) Katihar, Arwal, Purnea, Sheikhpura (12 each), Samastipur, (11), Kishanganj, Saran, Saharsa (10 each), Madhepura, Supaul (9 each), Gaya, Vaishali (8 each), Sitamarhi (7), Araria (4) and Sheohar, Jamui (3 each) till the time of going to the press.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/covid-cases-top-1-000-in-bihar-100-in-capital-migrants-account-for-44/story-1JSLnogipT7pFaVzfP39gK.html
15-05-2020||Lucknow||Now, give personal details while buying cold, cough and fever drugs||Getting over-the-counter pills for common cold, fever or cough won’t be easy now as drug inspectors would need your name, address and contact number before you get the drugs.“Name, contact number and address of people purchasing medicines (for common cold, fever or cough) over-the-counter be noted and compiled on a daily basis by drug inspectors of all the districts,” said a circular from the office of drug licensing and controlling authority, Uttar Pradesh.The details of such customers has to be uploaded on the portal developed by the Food Safety and Drug Administration (FSDA) by the retail chemists in the state.The drug inspectors have also been asked to inform these steps to the chemists. “The step is being taken in regard to the Covid-19 outbreak,” says the circular.Meanwhile, the move has put retail chemists in a dilemma as they get several customers who purchase tablets or syrups for these problems during the day.“Over 70% of the approximately 80,000 retail chemists in the state do not have computers. How would they feed data,” said Giriraj Rastogi, office bearer of the Chemists and Druggists Federation, Uttar Pradesh, a body of medicine retailers and whole-sellers.“These drugs are not scheduled, hence customers, particularly women, will raise objection when asked for their name, contact or address,” said Vikas Rastogi of the Lucknow Chemists’ Association.There are scheduled drugs, such as those used as sleeping pills for which customers have to give details while purchasing them, but the new order is yet to be circulated among public.The medicine sellers said the other way could be to first issue a message among the public and also make alternative arrangement for collection of data so that the entire sale is noted with the FSDA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/now-give-personal-details-while-buying-cold-cough-and-fever-drugs/story-ciOFAcI1wwbkmDd56PSRUI.html
15-05-2020||Delhi||As lockdown sets to ease, DUSIB readies guidelines for shelter homes||The Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) is preparing guidelines for its shelter homes to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) once lockdown norms are further relaxed from May 18.The NGOs running the government’s 223 shelter homes say that people living here are likely to step out in search of work depending on the relaxation in lockdown norms and so there is a need for guidelines for better Covid-19 management. The government had also set up 126 temporary shelters after the nationwide lockdown was announced on March 25.Bipin Rai, a member of DUSIB, said, “We are preparing a list of dos and don’ts for shelter homes for the better management of Covid-19, especially now (once the further relaxation in norms is announced).”“This would include the regular thermal screening, counselling and regular health check-up of occupants, training the shelter home staff, etc. We will issue the guidelines in a day or two,” Rai said.So far, very few cases of Covid-19 have been reported from the government-run shelter homes. But with further relaxation in norms, people living here are likely to step out in search of work. “The chances of spread of infection will increase, as people start moving in and out of the shelters. Though we have put in place measures such as the regular spraying of disinfectants, use of sanitiser, etc., there is a need to create more awareness about the disease. If the government issues some guidelines, it will help the NGOs running the shelter homes better,” Rajesh Kumar, executive director, Society for Promotion of Youth and Masses, said.According to a DUSIB official, just five or six cases of Covid-19 have been reported from government-run shelter homes. Indu Prakash, a member of the Supreme Court-appointed monitoring committee for homeless shelters in Delhi, said, “If there are some basic protocols in place, it will help in better management at the shelters. Regular thermal screening and regular check-ups will be useful.”While there is fear among people about Covid-19, there is growing desperation to get back to work. Vishal Kumar, who used to sell books at the Nizamuddin Railway Station before the lockdown, has been staying at a shelter at Sarai Kale Khan. “I have been out of a job for two months now. I have been helping cook at the shelter home, but now I want to get back to work. I hope the government relaxes norms so that I can look for work,” Vishal said.With people at the shelter homes waiting to get back to work as and when possible, Vinay K Stephen, chief functionary of Sadik Masih Medical Social Servant Society (SMMSSS), said it would be a challenging task to manage people the shelters when the lockdown is relaxed. “The guidelines will be helpful to manage people as we can tell them what they should do or not do at the shelter homes,” Stephen said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/as-lockdown-sets-to-ease-dusib-readies-guidelines-for-shelter-homes/story-tpYDgLPaADZP0b1uE7vVrI.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||52-year-old man from Hamirpur is HP’s third Covid fatality||A 52-year-old man from Hamirpur died due to Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Friday, taking the death toll in the state to three, health officials said.The patient was undergoing treatment at the Radha Soami Charitable Hospital Bhota, a dedicated Covid-19 care centre in Hamirpur district. “He was referred to Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College, Nerchowk in Mandi on Friday after his condition deteriorated. He passed away at the hospital due to acute respiratory distress,” said Dr Nipun Jindal, special secretary (health)-cum-managing director National Health Mission.The deceased had returned from Delhi to his native Hatli village on May 5. He had tested positive for the virus on May 9. He was shifted to the Covid hospital in Mandi as he was suffering from severe respiratory problems, officials said.On May 5, a 21-year-old youth from Sarkaghat of Mandi district, who was also suffering from a kidney ailment, had died due to the disease at Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla.Himachal had recorded the first death due to Covid-19 on March 23, when a 69-year-old US-returned Tibetan man had died of acute respiratory distress at Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Tanda.TWO MORE TEST POSITIVE, TALLY RISES TO 76Two more people tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Friday, taking the total number of cases to 76. The fresh infections have been reported from Una and Kangra districts. The Una patient, a 33-year-old man, is a resident of Haroli sub-division and had returned from Mumbai to Mohali and then to Una. He was quarantined at Palakvah quarantine centre at the state border, deputy commissioner Sandeep Kumar said. The patient has been shifted to Covid-care centre at Haroli. Kumar said the youth tried to conceal his travel history. “He had returned from a red zone but applied for an entry pass from the orange zone,” the DC said. The other case is a 22-year-old youth from Fatehpur sub-division of Kangra district. He returned from Delhi along with his father on May 8.Active cases in the state have gone up to 34. Himachal Pradesh has witnessed a spurt in coronavirus cases since May 4, with 35 people testing positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/52-year-old-man-from-hamirpur-is-hp-s-third-covid-fatality/story-l9gbFp8emunLf2FW1ElXgM.html
15-05-2020||City||4 special jails set up in Punjab to quarantine new inmates||With several accused testing positive post arrest, the prisons department has established four special jails in the state to quarantine those brought in fresh cases. The step has been taken to avoid spread of infection from new inmates to those already lodged in the jail.The special jails have been established in Bathinda, Patti, Ludhiana and Barnala. In Ludhiana, the special jail has been established in Borstal Jail. The old inmates of borstal jail have been shifted to Faridkot Jail.Kulwant Singh, superintendent of Special Jail, Ludhiana, said that the special jails Ludhiana is accommodating accused from 11 districts. A total of 274 accused have been already quarantined in these special jails.Kulwant Singh added that accused arrested by the police in various cases would be sent to special jails for screening. The accused would then be placed under quarantine for 15 days in special jails. After 15 days of quarantine, the inmates will be shifted to jails of their respective districts, if not tested positive for Covid-19.He further added that they would ensure social distancing in these special jails and inmates would be screened daily.Earlier on May 2, as many as 200 inmates from Ludhiana women’s jail were shifted to Pathankot after a woman facing trial in drug peddling case tested positive for the virus. Besides, 17 cops had to be placed under quarantine in Ludhiana after a vehicle-theft accused tested positive. Later, an accused in suicide abetment case also tested positive, prompting the quarantine of five cops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-special-jails-set-up-in-punjab-to-quarantine-new-inmates/story-ogAw82qXJBwR1GqCqKD96N.html
15-05-2020||Lucknow||UP: Fresh guidelines bring clarity on emergency OPD||After weeks of confusion, the Uttar Pradsesh health department’s fresh guidelines have brought clarity about the running of emergency OPD service at private hospitals.“The guidelines are welcome. They have evolved from the learnings in India and abroad. Their focus is to make the health services run smoothly,” said Dr Sandeep Kapoor, director of Healthcity Hospital.HIGHLIGHTSFor admissions, all people, particularly those with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) symptoms and those coming from hotspots should be tested. Till their report comes, they should be kept in an isolation area before admission to other wards.Doctors and medical staff attending them should follow infection prevention protocol, and wear protective gear.For emergency surgery, PPE kits should be used and sampling done. If the patient tests positive, the protocol should be followed. Also, if any patient tests positive after admission, the protocol should be followed for disinfecting the ward and quarantining the high-risk staffThe guidelines say a hospital should inform the chief medical officer (CMO) if a fresh case is reported from the hospital. Thereafter, the patient should be shifted to a Covid hospital.Also, patients admitted in the same ward on beds immediately next to a Covid positive patient (on all four sides) should be considered high risk (patient) and shifted to an isolation ward, according to the fresh guidelines.Their status is to be checked after five days and before 14 days elapse, the guidelines add.“Close the ward for 24-hours, wash beds with detergent, wipe with a 70% alcohol solution later. Sanitise all equipment in the ward. If high-risk patients test negative, follow the protocol of 14-day quarantine. Also, the low-risk patients can be discharged adequately,” the guidelines say.“Hospitals now need not fear sealing or closure of the entire establishment, if the hospital and staff have learned and adequately follow the infection prevention protocol (IPP). The best part is that the guidelines are clear about what steps have to be taken in each situation,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general of the Association of International Doctors.“The guidelines ensure all remain safe from infection, not just the patient, but also the doctors and the medical staff. I welcome such guidelines,” said Dr Anoop Agrawal, secretary of the UP Orthopaedic Association.All staff, who have been within a distance of two metres from a Covid positive patient for more than 15 minutes, shall also be sent to quarantine and their RT-PCR test be done. Other staff (low-risk) shall remain in quarantine till the report of the high-risk staff comes.If all high-risk staff test negative, the low-risk ones should be called back on duty, while the high-risk staff shall still follow quarantine, according to the guidelines.“Guidelines may also be modified, depending on the situation in future,” said Dr Kapoor. Chief medical officer, Lucknow, Dr Narendra Agrawal had conducted an online meeting with representatives of different organisations about the guideline..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-fresh-guidelines-bring-clarity-on-emergency-opd/story-A6BN2vNOUEnlSCzjn6a2uJ.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Ladakh administration charging money from returnees in quarantine centres, allege BJP councillor||Amid recent controversy over bus and train fares being charged from migrant workers, BJP councillor of Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council of Leh, Sayeeda Ladakhi on Friday alleged that Ladakh administration has been charging ₹2,500 to ₹3,000 per day from residents returning to the Union territory and being kept in quarantine centres including hotels.“People cannot afford to pay ₹2,500 to ₹3,000 per day. The UT administration has issued an order under SOP (standard operating procedure) wherein they asked people to pay for their accommodation. The Centre had sanctioned ₹1 crore each for Leh and Kargil districts. Where are those funds,” she asked.Aghast over money being charged by Ladakh residents, Sayeeda also wrote a letter to commissioner secretary Rigzin Samphel and took up the matter with party MP Jamyan Tsering Namgyal.The BJP councillor added that people, largely women of Chuchot Yogma village, 10 km from Leh, wanted to meet Leh district commissioner on Thursday so as to urge him to send their relatives, who were returning to Ladakh, to their homes rather than keeping them in quarantine centres, however, the commissioner did not show up.“While maintaining social distancing, these women raised slogans against Leh DC. The police lathicharged the protesters leaving four women injured,” she said.The councillor also alleged that students being ferried by buses were charged ₹500 to ₹1,000 in total contravention to government order of free transportation.Commissioner secretary Samphel did not respond to repeated calls. Leh district commissioner Sachin Kumar Vaishya said that “There was no need” (to react to her claims) and that “these are routine works”.Later, Sachin shared a clarification issued by his office on Thursday, a part of it read, “the passengers who do not wish to stay with their relatives and friends can stay in administrative quarantine facilities being run by the district administration without any charges (FCI, Dharma centre etc). However, those who do not wish to stay even in these quarantine facilities can stay in the centres identified by the administration at their own expense. However, they shall undergo mandatory 14 days home quarantine.”Sources said that the Thursday clarification was in fact issued on Friday following uproar by people and the BJP councilor.Calls to BJP MP Jamyang Tsering Namgyal went unanswered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ladakh-administration-charging-money-from-returnees-in-quarantine-centres-allege-bjp-councillor/story-7Eo5LGZGfaN5xK8svyr6FI.html
15-05-2020||City||Delhi: 18-year-old killed after motorcycle hit by crane in Vivek Vihar||New Delhi: An 18-year-old student, riding his brother’s motorcycle, was killed after his vehicle was rammed by a crane allegedly being driven against the traffic on the road near east Delhi’s Vivek Vihar police station Wednesday night, the police said.The crane, a police investigator privy to the probe said, was allegedly being operated by a contractor on the behalf of the municipal corporation for picking up garbage. “The crane driver was taking it away at the end of the day when the accident took place,” said the investigator, requesting anonymity.The teenager, Akshat Gaur, had given his class 12 examinations earlier this year and had recently acquired a learner’s licence, said this uncle, Manoj Gaur.He said Akshat lived with his mother and older brother in Krishna Nagar. His father works in the finance department of a prominent hotel in Myanmar.The investigator cited above said the mishap took place around 9.40pm on Wednesday when Akshat left his home to get his older brother’s Duke motorcycle refuelled.“The accident took place just a few metres from the police station’s main gate. When we got to know of the accident, we rushed to the spot only to find the teenager lying unconscious on the road while the mangled remains of this red and black motorcycle lay near him,” said the investigator. Nearby, the crane driver, 33-year-old Ram Pukar Shah, was surrounded by the public. “His crane stood against the traffic, making it clear that he was driving on the wrong side of the road,” said the officer cited above. Akshat was rushed to GTB Hospital in a police vehicle, but he was declared brought dead. His learner’s license in his wallet helped the police ascertain his identity.“My nephew was excited when he got his learner’s licence. Recently, he had told me that his driver’s licence was due, but that he wouldn’t be able to get it due to the lockdown,” said his uncle.Manoj alleged that not only was the stretch of road, where the accident took place, poorly lit, even the crane driver hadn’t switched on his headlights.While the investigator mentioned earlier confirmed that streetlights at the spot were indeed dysfunctional, he said it was a matter of probe whether the driver was using the crane’s headlights as claimed by Manoj, as there were no eyewitnesses to the accident.“We are checking CCTV footage from the area to verify the allegations of the crane not using its headlights. While we know that the crane was moving against the traffic, footage will further help establish that,” said the investigator.None of the two people involved in the accident were inebriated, the investigator added. After the fatal hit, the driver made no attempts to escape. “He told us that he didn’t see any point in escaping with such a large vehicle,” the investigator said. Shah has been arrested after being booked under relevant IPC sections for death due to negligence.In 2018, there were at least 460 accidents in the national Capital due to driving on the wrong side of the road. A total of 69 people were killed and 483 were injured in such accidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-18-year-old-killed-after-motorcycle-hit-by-crane-in-vivek-vihar/story-Nz1j2QBkRGsq8VEa79Xw3M.html
15-05-2020||Delhi||Govt aims at planting 40 lakh saplings, highest so far||The Delhi government has set a target to plant around 40 lakh saplings across the national Capital in 2020-21—the highest ever so far. The plantation drive is to begin July first week, officials said.According to officials in the forest department, the nodal agency for plantation in the city, preparations are on in full swing for the monsoon, which is the ideal time for planting saplings, despite a few hurdles in transportation because of the ongoing nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19. The projected plantation for this fiscal is almost double that of last year’s (23 lakh saplings). This, despite the fact that last year, the target was lower than the previous year’s 32 lakh, which has been the highest until now. This was mainly because greening agencies had raised concerns over the lack of plantation area. Plantation areas primarily comprise vegetation-deficient areas, such as wastelands and clear barren patches, that are not available in the city as such. The massive plantation targets were part of the Delhi government’s strategy to mitigate air pollution in the Capital by increasing green cover. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had kick-started the drive in 2018. “We have already completed last year’s target in December and are moving on to this year’s, which is a huge target to meet. The plantation will be carried out in the south (Asola), west (Alipur) and north divisions, where large patches of land are available. The overall target is distributed among at least 20 greening agencies,” a senior department official, who did not wish to be named, said. He added that this year the target is higher, mainly because of the afforestation drive to be taken up at the Yamuna floodplains, as per directions of the National Green Tribunal (NGT). The Delhi Development Authority (DDA), the custodian of the floodplains, has been assigned the target of planting 10 lakh saplings followed by five lakh each by the forest department and the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC). The forest department will distribute five lakh saplings for free to citizens to plant, another official said. The other agencies involved in plantation include the New Delhi Municipal Council, the North and East municipal corporations and the Public Works Department (PWD), among others.More than 90% of the saplings to be planted will be native species such as peepal, bargad, gular, jamun, gulmohar, sheesham, arjun and pilkhan, among others. However, a senior DDA official said that so far they target planting around four lakh saplings, as per the space available, of which around 1.80 lakh will be planted on the Yamuna floodplains. “As per the space available for plantation on the floodplains and in the various parks, we are preparing to plant four lakh saplings. On the floodplains, around 1.23 lakh shrubs and about 57,000 tree saplings will be planted. We have prepared estimates and floated tenders. There is a slight delay in the process because most of the services are shut due to the lockdown,” the official said, not wishing to be named. He added that as per a third-party audit of last year’s plantation, the survival rate of saplings has been around 90%-95%. The DDA is already in the process of restoring a part of the floodplains, which includes developing forest and nature trails in different zones of the floodplains. However, forest department officials said that they had already discussed the target with the representatives of the DDA and will hold a meeting with them soon over the issue. According to experts, since the government is looking at a huge target, the maintenance and survival of saplings are of primary importance. CR Babu, professor emeritus at the Centre for Environment Management of Degraded Ecosystems at Delhi University, said, “It is a welcome step. Before they embark on the massive greening exercise, the various agencies must put out the survival rate of the previous plantations and ensure the maintenance of saplings.” He added that developing a floodplains forest would play a huge role in enhancing the water quality of the Yamuna and in maintaining the ecological biodiversity of the river, which must be done at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/govt-aims-at-planting-40-lakh-saplings-highest-so-far/story-VtmI3UiIqcYlY6bFbYEwBL.html
15-05-2020||City||Delhi: Govt school in south delhi designated isolation centre for CRPF personnel in Capital||New Delhi: A Delhi government school in South Delhi’s Vasant Kunj was on Friday designated a dedicated isolation care centre for 157 personnel of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) who tested Covid-19 positive at a camp in the national Capital.Under powers conferred by the Disaster Management Act, the concerned subdivisions magistrate has ordered “requisition” of the Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalay in B Block of Vasant Kunj and “handover” to the CRPF to use it as a quarantine facility till further orders, said district magistrate (south) B M Mishra.The order, which HT has seen, cites a request received from the 122nd Battalion of the CRPF which mentioned 157 cases of Covid-19 of CRPF personnel.These personnel belong to the 31st battalion of the country’s largest paramilitary, which has more than 1,000 troopers, and are based in Mayur Vihar Phase-III area of the national Capital. The battalion also recorded the death of a 55 year old sub-inspector on April 28, due to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-school-in-south-delhi-designated-isolation-centre-for-crpf-personnel-in-capital/story-hhfrA48Ttoido3lbjIekFI.html
15-05-2020||Mumbai||Operation Dolphin Nose: NIA arrests key conspirator from Mumbai for leaking vital Navy information||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested 49-year-old Mohammed Haroon Haji Abdul Rehman Lakdawala, a Mumbai resident believed to be one of the key conspirators in Visakhapatnam espionage case, on Friday.Lakdawala is the fourteenth arrest made in the operation code-named ‘Dolphin Nose’ where the espionage racket was busted by the Special Intelligence Branch of the Andhra Pradesh police along with the Naval Intelligence and the Intelligence Bureau. The case was later transferred to NIA. “Lakdawala’s arrest is important considering the number of times he has travelled to Karachi under the guise of conducting cross-border trade, where he used to meet Pakistani spied possible code named as Akbar alias Ali and Rizwan,” said an NIA media releaseAn officer, requesting anonymity, said, “Lakdawala’s role is important considering that he was directly involved in depositing the money into the bank accounts of the Navy personnel at regular intervals through different methods.”The espionage racket started in 2018. The first arrests were made on December 20 when the agencies arrested seven Indian Navy personnel from Visakhapatnam, Mumbai and Karwar bases, along with one hawala operator. Later in February, three more navy personnel were arrested in the case along with one Pakistani-born Indian national Shaista Qaiser.Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) agencies had honey-trapped sailors through Facebook, WhatsApp and online dating sites, and were allegedly paid through Indian conduits for getting crucial information regarding positioning of Indian Navy ships and submarines at its critical bases, said sources in the intelligence agencies. The sailors fell for ‘women’ on the dating sites, which were profiles created by ISI, and the women later would introduce them to a businessman who elicited information the sailors, said NIA officials. When the sailor would refrain from revealing information, the ‘women’ would then blackmail them by threatening to reveal their online chats. This way they extracted information about positions and movements of our vessels, added NIA officials.During searches at the house of Lakdawala, several digital devices and incriminating documents were seized by NIA, he said, adding further investigation in the case was underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/operation-dolphin-nose-nia-arrests-key-conspirator-from-mumbai-for-leaking-vital-navy-information/story-2jKcPy3WmY77tRn5O3B9wM.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Senior Citizen Facilitation Centre to be set up in 4 districts of HP||The state government will set up centers to facilitate senior citizens in Shimla, Dharamshala, Mandi and Hamirpur.Education minister Suresh Bhardwaj on Friday held a cabinet sub-committee meeting with the departments of agriculture and Ayurveda to discuss various developmental issues.While presiding over the meeting Bhardwaj said that the state government has adopted Swarnim Himachal Drishtipatra-2017 of the BJP as its vision document and the government is committed for its implementation and all possible steps are being taken in this direction.He said that Senior Citizen Facilitation Centre would be set up in Shimla, Dharamshala, Mandi and Hamirpur. He said that these centres would have facilities of assisted living, skilled nursing care and ayurvedic center. Skill development centre would also be established in these centres where senior citizens would provide skills to the youth. He said that Ayush University along with facilities of homeopathy, naturopathy and Indian systems of medicine would also be established in Chamba district and special encouragement would be given to Yoga. He said that medical tourism will be promoted by the development of health resorts, yoga, panchakarma and Ayurveda centers.Sub-committee member and industries minister Bikram Singh said that all the necessary efforts have been made for the welfare and progress of farmers and horticulturists so that their income could be doubled and their products could be marketed as per better marketing strategy. He said that the sub-committee will take appropriate steps on various issues such as providing compensation of agricultural land, bringing farmers under the ambit of Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana, improving the functioning of marketing boards and market committees, making e-marketing system effective and also starting a ‘Janani Programme’ under which the fellowship and internship opportunities would be provided to women farmers in big agricultural universities in the country and abroad.Sub-committee member and forest minister Govind Singh Thakur said that 19 mandis have been brought under the e-Nam system in the state, under which 59 products are being traded in the state, mainly consisting of fruits and vegetables. As many as 1,19,554 farmers and 1,947 traders are buying and selling agricultural produce through e-Nam.Under the Mukhyamantri Khet Sanrakshan Yojana, for the year 2019-20, an amount of ₹18.18 crore has been spent for the assistance of the beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/senior-citizen-facilitation-centre-to-be-set-up-in-4-districts-of-hp/story-pN7MCwHRtE6UnTAZQ5vxjL.html
15-05-2020||Mumbai||Air India official transferred, promoted despite an ongoing sexual harassment inquiry against him||A senior Air India employee has been transferred and given higher responsibilities by being asked to join his duty in Delhi, despite having an ongoing sexual harassment inquiry against him. The airline decided to shift the official as the current head of the department is set to retire soon.The promotion and transfer order (HT has a copy of it) is dated May 13 and states the officer to be transferred as general manager (GM) of Air India’s medical services in the airline headquarters in New Delhi. “An airline source said, “The said officer heads a region currently and has been asked to join the medical department in Delhi to head it, pan India.”The said officer was posted in Mumbai when the harassment complaint was filed, after which he was transferred to Hyderabad by the then chairman and managing director- Ashwani Lohani.The airline spokesperson said, “These are internal issues on which we would not like to make any comment. Transfer of senior officers is routine administrative exercise as per administrative and operational requirements to ensure optimum utilization of human resources in sync with laid down rules and norms.”Senior Delhi based officials said that the airline decided as their medical services department needs an officer as its current head is set to retire soon.A senior airline official said that the medical services department is playing a key role to serve the country, in the current situation when Air India is operating repatriation flights for the government.Capt. Mohan Ranganathan, former instructor pilot and aviation expert said, “ No employee undergoing a sexual harassment case can be promoted in any manner. The airline seems to be blatantly violating norms. Even if the concerned officer is the senior-most and is hence eligible for a promotion, he cannot be given higher responsibilities until the sexual harassment case is going on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/air-india-official-transferred-promoted-despite-an-ongoing-sexual-harassment-inquiry-against-him/story-uvOWRY5UEELXb8P5zdvGWL.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Financial problems of educational institutions will be raised with Centre: MP Manish Tewari||Anandpur Sahib member of Parliament Manish Tewari has assured that he will raise the issue of financial difficulties being faced by educational and technical training institutes amid the Covid-19 lockdown with the central government.Tewari held a meeting with principals and vice-chancellors of different colleges and universities through video conferencing on Friday.Representatives of the educational institutes said they managed to pull through the months of March and April, but now, the situation was out of their control. They said there was no other way to earn revenue for them except charging fees so that they can pay salaries to the teaching and non-teaching staff.They said children from economically weaker sections can be exempted from paying the fees, but those who have the means, must do so. They also demanded for an economic package from the central government, stating that the government has an under-taxation of ₹5 crore for universities, which they should be allowed to use, or must be provided a loan, which they will gradually withdraw later.Tewari assured the representatives that he will try to get their problems resolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/financial-problems-of-educational-institutions-will-be-raised-with-centre-mp-manish-tewari/story-tt2aCMI3zF9th0PRedYKGK.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Now, HC gives Chandigarh admn, MHA 24 hours to reexamine curfew relaxations||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday gave 24 hours to the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) and the Chandigarh administration to examine and make changes if the curfew relaxations by the latter were not in consonance with the ministry’s guidelines.After hearing arguments from the ministry, UT and the petitioner, the high court bench of chief justice RS Jha and justice Arun Palli, while asking UT and MHA to hold a meeting, observed that the issues raised in the petition can be best resolved by the MHA itself, as the import and object of the guidelines can be best understood by it. The court was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by lawyer Pankaj Chandgothia against lifting of curfew restrictions by UT from May 3.The court expressed its concern about how so many relaxations were granted by the administration that too at a time when the number of cases was rising. It specifically referred to opening of public places, such as Sukhna lake. It also questioned as to how free movement was permitted between 7am and 7pm and almost all kind of shops in neighbourhood markets were allowed to open from 10am to 6pm.During the hearing it also came to light that even as on May 2, parts of certain colonies and sectors were declared as containment zones, subsequently on May 4, the entire areas of Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 38, Sector 52 and Shastri Nagar were decided to be treated as “containment zones”. But no formal order in this regard was issued. On its part, UT told the court that prohibition from Centre was on opening of entertainment parks. Hence, places like Rock Garden were kept closed, but Sukhna lake was opened in line with the MHA guidelines. Senior standing counsel, UT, Pankaj Jain also reasoned that Chandigarh, being the capital of Punjab and Haryana, had a unique administrative positioning, and both Mohali and Panchkula helped in regulating the flow of vehicles. On opening of markets, the court was told that Chandigarh did not have standalone shops, and neighbourhood markets were opened only with odd-even formula to avoid large gatherings.Additional solicitor general of India Satya Pal Jain formally did not file any reply on whether UT’s orders were in violation, but added that all parties had the common objective of defeating Covid-19, and steps taken by UT were also with bona fide object and not with any mala fide intent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-hc-gives-chandigarh-admn-mha-24-hours-to-reexamine-curfew-relaxations/story-dZWaBqHXSs1fEpaGQOpPQO.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Jammu cop sings songs to entertain stranded passengers; video goes viral||In a move to lighten the mood of stranded passengers in Jammu and Kashmir, a video of deputy superintendent of police, Bikram Kumar, singing outside a railway station in the Union territory has surfaced on the internet.The video shared by the inspector general of police Mukesh Singh shows the cop singing Bollywood numbers to passengers at the railway station on Thursday evening.The video soon went viral on Twitter and received huge appreciations for his gesture of entertaining the passengers during the coronavirus enforced lockdown.The netizens have heaped praise on Bikram Kumar, who is posted as a sub-divisional police officer in Jammu East.“Passengers were being sent off to Delhi from Jammu on Thursday evening. A passenger was carrying a guitar with him so I borrowed his guitar to render a couple of Bollywood numbers to cheer up the passengers. He obliged and it created positive vibes and brought smiles on people’s faces. It was all spontaneous,” said Kumar.Sagar sang two famous numbers—“Gulabi Aankhen Jo Teri Dekhi” and “Papa Kehte Hain”.“Hands which carry a gun also knows to spread love through music. Much respect!”, posted Farhan Shah on social media.IGP Mukesh Singh posted the video on his Twitter handle with caption “SDPO east Jammu singing #railway station @jammu for passengers of the first train during #covid @JmuKmrPolice @igpjmu”.The post so far has been retweeted 308 times and has garnered 1.6K likes.Another user reacted, “‘Dude Rocks’ a true picture of our people in the security services in India, they are an epitome of peace and humanity”.“The hands that usually wield AK -47 assault rifles and other sophisticated weapons can also weave magic on strings,” said Vikram Sharma, a theatre artist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jammu-cop-sings-songs-to-entertain-stranded-passengers-video-goes-viral/story-gyhl33bPGxZ5bZAH7iFOGN.html
15-05-2020||Lucknow||With no export or inter-state trade, Malihabad mangoes headed for Lucknow||Good news for mango lovers. This year the markets will be flush with mangoes. Orchard owners say since mango export and inter-state mango trade have been badly affected following the lockdown and ongoing corona crisis, the mango growers in Malihabad belt have no option than to pump in the supply to the state capital or neighbouring districts. This was also likely to bring down the prices of the luscious Malihabadi Dussehri to as low as Rs 15 per kg.“It’s a double whammy for mango growers. Not only are they battling the lockdown effect on the mango crop but also there is less produce this year. We don’t have any option than to pump in whatever produce we have to Lucknow or neighbouring districts since the traditional buyers from other states haven’t placed any orders this time. But this will only be possible if lockdown opens and there are plenty of vehicles available to facilitate transportation of mangoes,” said Insram Ali, president of All India Mango Growers Association.Ali said Lucknow’s mango belt that also fetched it the title of ‘mango capital’, comprised of Malihabad, Mall and Kakori. “In all three tehsils, the records of the horticulture department suggest mango is produced on 23,589 hectares of land. Mallihabad is said to be the largest contributor to the total mango production (from the mango belt) with over 10,000 hectares of land engaged in mango farming,” he added.He said the lockdown effect had also kept the international buyers at bay. “In UP, every year, the mango growers used to export around 10 tonnes of Dussehri mangoes to the Gulf countries and this time, following the lockdown there are no buyers from abroad,” he added.He said the association had also approached the UP Government, demanding its intervention in saying the mango crop from getting spoiled. “Since mango is a perishable fruit and its shelf live is less than other fruits, hence we need proper transportation to supply the fruits to the nearby markets. Government should facilitate the transportation and should also buy the mango produce in order to save mango growers from bankruptcy,” he said.Dr Shailendra Rajan, director ICAR-Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture (CISH) that aims to train the farmers in getting maximum yield said, “The yield is not as good as last year. But, harvesting and marketing are becoming major challenges for the mango growers as there is extreme shortage of labourers. In other parts of the country also mango growers are facing the same issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/with-no-export-or-inter-state-trade-malihabad-mangoes-headed-for-lucknow/story-q7tSrJpiPcDNQQCpSghh6M.html
15-05-2020||Mumbai||Unlicensed pet shops, dog breeding centres to shut down in Maharashtra post lockdown||Pet shops, dog breeding centres and marketing centres without valid licenses in Maharashtra will not be allowed to remain open post lockdown.The state animal husbandry department issued directives to all district collectors, circulated on Friday, to ensure such centres need to file for fresh registrations before the Maharashtra State Animal Welfare Board (SAWB) at the earliest to ensure they remain functional.“Based on the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act,1960, amended in 2017 and 2018, to include latest guidelines, we have only registered eight pet shops and five dog breeders from Pune, while no other such centres across Maharashtra have been registered so far,” said Dr Prashant Bhad, assistant commissioner, animal husbandry department.At the moment, all pet shops and breeding centres in Mumbai are functioning without our consent, said Dr Bhad. “We have not received the inspection reports for any centres in Mumbai. Based on our clearance, valid centres can apply for registration,” he said.The directive follows an Animal Welfare Board of India’s (AWBI) advisory to ensure pet shops avoid keeping exotic animals while breeding centres follow scientific norms to mitigate the spread of zoonotic diseases. “Animals in pet shops are kept in immunocompromised and unhygienic conditions. Once these rules are enforced, it is less likely that we have zoonotic outbreaks. This is a very positive order and must be followed,” said Ambika Hiranandani, legal advisor to SAWB.The People for Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) India said the state needs to pass orders not to display animals for sale on any online platforms. “When the lockdown was announced many owners left animals and birds locked in their shops to starve and suffer. Violators must be dealt with strictly in accordance with the provisions of the law,” said Meet Ashar, associate manager, emergency response team, PETA India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/unlicensed-pet-shops-dog-breeding-centres-to-shut-down-in-maharashtra-post-lockdown/story-LgkRPs2CqeqRabiqrmh01K.html
15-05-2020||City||Senior adviser to Punjab CM visits Mohali, appreciates role of GoGs in fighting pandemic||Senior adviser to Punjab chief minister (CM) Captain Amarinder Singh, Lt Gen TS Shergill ( retd), on Friday visited Mohali and appreciated the proactiveness of guardians of governance (GoGs) in dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic.“The GoGs have emerged as state government’s own response body to the current pandemic by rendering frontline services,” said former Lt Gen Shergill, who oversees the programme of GoGs and has constantly been on a move touring the state and motivating his men.Shergill said the dedication and devotion towards duty and also the camaraderie of cadres stayed even when out of uniform and if channelised properly, it paid rich dividends. He said the GOGs were all in the field handling various duties, including distribution of ration, management of migrant labourers, conducting various surveys and data-mapping, reporting the impact on essential services and distribution of medicines among needy. Earlier, Lt Gen Shergill, accompanied by his officer on special duty (OSD) Karanveer Singh, had met deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan and sought feedback regarding other areas where the services of GoGs may be utilised since the mandi operations were close to completion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/senior-adviser-to-punjab-cm-visits-mohali-appreciates-role-of-gogs-in-fighting-pandemic/story-3OsRo0SjhXWsgEVUI7EQFM.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||J&K crosses 1,000 mark with 30 fresh infections||Thirty more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Jammu and Kashmir on Friday, taking the total number of cases in the Union territory to 1,013, officials said.Of the fresh infections, 21 were reported from Kashmir division—Srinagar, Bandipora, Baramulla, Kupwara and Pulwama districts—where the tally has risen to 903. Nine cases are from Ramban, Udhampur, Kathua, Rajouri and Jammu district.Also, 28 more patients have recovered and were discharged from various hospitals in Kashmir, officials said. Out of the total positive cases—456 in Kashmir and 57 in Jammu division– have recovered so far. At present, Kashmir has 438 active cases and 51 are in Jammu.Till date, 10,5941 people in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance—27,760 in home quarantine, 142 in hospital quarantine and 13,254 under home surveillance. Besides, 64,285 people have completed their 28-day surveillance period.Since the detection of first Covid-19 case in March, 11 people have succumbed to the disease in J&K. With 153 positive cases, Srinagar district tops the count followed by Anantnag at 145 and Kupwara at 135 cases.A spokesperson of Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences said they received 1,724 samples till Friday evening. “As many as 1,210 were tested. Eight were found positive while 514 are being tested. Among the positive cases, six are from Baramulla, one each from Pulwama and Bandipora.”Former J&K nodal officer Dr Shafkat Khan said they should wait for the curve to flatten. “The increase in number of cases to more than 1,000 is not alarming yet but we should not be complacent. A surge can be expected anytime in case proper SOPs are not followed.”UT ACQUIRES 30K VTM KITS TO RAMP UP TESTING As 50,000 stranded people returned home to the Valley, the Jammu and Kashmir administration has acquired 30,000 viral transport media (VTM) kits to ramp up the testing for coronavirus to ensure that the infection does not spread. An Indian Air Force (IAF) plane brought in the 30,000 VTM kits to Kashmir on Friday, officials said. They said the kits have been imported in bulk to ramp up the testing of people from Kashmir who are stranded in various parts of the country due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. “We had 13 travellers, who returned to Kashmir recently, testing positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. Foreseeing this possibility, additional kits were procured to ensure that we test more and more people so that the infection does not spread,” the officials said. “There could be a surge in cases. However, poeple entering J&K are being screened and quarantined,” a senior officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-crosses-1-000-mark-with-30-fresh-infections/story-edrxmcjHlBTZoqznWB6DVM.html
15-05-2020||Mumbai||Woman seeks termination of one of her twin foetuses, HC refers her to expert panel||The Bombay high court on Friday referred a 33-year-old Dahisar resident, who is pregnant with twins and seeks termination of pregnancy of one of the foetuses affected by Downs Syndrome, to a Medical Board of JJ Hospital and Sir Grant Medical College.Justice SJ Kathawalla has asked the board to submit it’s reported by May 22, when the woman’s petition will come up for further hearing.The woman’s petition, filed through advocate Aditi Saxena stated that on April 29 she underwent maternal screening test and underwent a second test on May 7, given the complications found in one her foetuses. The second test results showed that the foetus having complications suffered from Down’s Syndrome.On May 11, she took the second opinion from gynaecologist and obstetrician, who informed her that the affected foetus suffered from an untreatable chromosomal anomaly with a substantial risk of mental or physical disabilities and thereafter she decided to undergo termination of her pregnancy of the affected foetus and continue normal pregnancy with the other foetus.She claimed that the gynaecologist had also informed her that such a procedure for terminating the pregnancy of one her foetuses would pose no higher risk to her as compared to delivery.Justice Kathawalla took note of these facts and referred her to the medical Board, saying the petitioner has made out a prima facie case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/woman-seeks-termination-of-one-of-her-twin-foetuses-hc-refers-her-to-expert-panel/story-WlxJ4dGvazVW14XejGCo3M.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal high court to start functioning from May 18||Himachal Pradesh high court will start functioning from May 18, as per a notification issued on Friday.The notification states that the principal division bench and division bench-II will assemble in the court on Monday whereas division-I will conduct the proceeding through video conferencing. “Single Bench-I, Single Bench-IV, Single Bench VI and Single Bench VIII will conduct their proceeding through video conferencing where as Single Bench-II, Single Bench-III, Single Bench-V and Single Bench-VII will assemble in the court,” it stated.On Tuesday, principal bench will conduct its proceedings through video conferencing. “Single Bench-I, Single Bench-IV, Single Bench-VI and Single Bench-VIII will assemble in the court while Single Bench-II, Single Bench-III, Single Bench-V and Single Bench-VII should conduct the proceedings through video conferencing” the notification reads.The scrutiny of cases shall be done by the bench after three days of filling the case. In case of urgent matters, which are required to be listed on the same or next day, the case shall be filled by email and in hard copy.“It is further clarified that there shall be no exemption in scrutiny under HP High Court (Scrutiny, Maintenance of Judicial Records, Administrative and Executive Business) Rules 1997,” it reads.No person other than lawyers and court staff shall enter the premises unless directed by the court. All Class-I and Class-II officers of the registry will attend office on all working days.In order to compensate the loss of judicial time due to lockdown, curfew and prohibitory orders under Section 144 of CrPC Act, the high court will work for two hours more daily in addition to the normal working hours till further orders.Rosters of other employees shall be prepared in such a manner that 30% employees will attend the office daily and the remaining will work from home and should not leave the station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-high-court-to-start-functioning-from-may-18/story-O1fPqhOXmtYJLOakt6n8AI.html
15-05-2020||City||37-year-old woman immolates herself at Baltana||A 37-year-old woman immolated herself at her Harmilap Nagar home in Baltana on Friday even as two of her children cried in terror in the next room.The woman was under treatment for depression, her husband, a driver working in a public school in Panchkula, told the police. He has been out of work.Their children, a 5-year-old son and 2-year-old daughter, were at home when the incident occurred. The woman had already died by the time the police arrived at the spot at 11 am after being informed by neighbours, who, alerted by the children’s cries, rushed to the first floor of a building where the family stayed, forced open the door and threw blankets on the woman to douse the fire.“She had locked herself in the room and the children were in the adjacent room,” police said. She suffered 80% burn injuries.Inquest proceedings have been initiated and the body kept in the General Hospital at Sector 6, Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/37-year-old-woman-immolates-herself-at-baltana/story-13be67aeZckXXXcjnQBDaL.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||1.5 lakh more families to get ration under NFSA in Himachal||An additional 1.5 lakh families will be covered under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) by identifying ‘priority household’, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Friday.The income limit of such families would be ₹45,000 per annum and they will be provided subsidised ration under the scheme.He said that 6,78,338 families in the state are covered under the Act with a total population of 27,84,717 whereas the target for the state under the Act is to 36, 81,586 people.As per the provisions of the Act, the families falling under its ambit will get wheat at ₹3.30 and rice at ₹2 per kilogram.The state would grant an extra ₹10 crore per year to implement the scheme.He said that consumers may also purchase any three pulses among Urad, dal chana, malka and moong at subsidised rates every month.“In order to provide essential food items at a fair price to the people, the government has allocated ₹ 225 crore under the state subsidy scheme for the current financial year,” he said.The chief minister said that the poor were the worst affected due to Covid-19 lockdown and the government has decided to provide them ration through fair price shops.On recommendations of the Cabinet sub-committee constituted for ‘Post Covid-19’ economic revival, the CM said, his government decided to exclude about 1.50 lakh taxpayers of the state from the benefits of the Public Distribution Scheme for a period of one year.“The government may consider including them in the scheme after one year when the economy comes back on track,” he said.He added that the government has also reduced the subsidy being provided to the above poverty line (APL) families on pulses from ₹30 to ₹20 per kg.The subsidy on edible oil has been cut to ₹5 per litre against the earlier ₹10 and that on the sugar by ₹6.“These steps will enable the government to provide maximum support to the weaker sections of the society,” said Thakur.“These initiatives will also save ₹ 60-70 crore of the public money which could further be used to tackle the Covid pandemic,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/1-5-lakh-more-families-to-get-ration-under-nfsa-in-himachal/story-QESp6OcR88l6Qqh3iBSumN.html
15-05-2020||City||Ludhiana traders hold flag march demanding opening of all shops||A day after the state government allowed industrial operations in mixed land-use areas, different shopkeeper associations in Ludhiana held a flag march in Chaura Bazar area on Friday, demanding that the state government should allow all shops to open.The traders held that the factories won’t be able to operate for a long time unless shops selling their final products are not operational. The traders, including owners of garment stores, shoes shops, cloth shops etc, said they are reeling under losses as they have to pay electricity bills and salaries to employees, besides meeting other expenses even as their shops have been closed for almost two months now.The different bodies that participated in the flag march, include the district unit of Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal, Ludhiana Consumer Products Distributors’ Association, among others. Members of the Business Bachao Morcha led by district president of Youth Akali Dal (YAD), Gurdeep Singh Gosha, also participated in the march.Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal district president Arvnder Singh Makkar and Gurdeep Gosha said, “The government has allowed factories to open but factories cannot run for long unless shops are opened for sale. The government should allow shops of all the trades to open so that small traders can cater to their needs and pay the expenses, including electricity bills and salaries of its workers.”Ludhiana consumer products distributors’ association president Harkesh Mittal said,”Due to prolonged lockdown, our staff is also planning to migrate to their native places. We were supporting them morally and financially as of now but if our retail outlets are not opened with immediate effect, our staff is also willing to leave soon. In the absence of skilled staff, opening the shops will become difficult. For a small trader, it will become extremely difficult to look for new labour in these times of crises.”The shopkeepers rued that on hand while the government has allowed liqour vends to open, it has failed to open garment and cloth shops.Model Town market association (regd) president Amarjit Singh said the shopkeepers are ready to follow all the guidelines issued by the government. “The government can impose restrictions on timings for opening the shops but it should take steps to bring some relief to the traders. The shopkeepers will follow all the guidelines and maintain social distancing at their respective shops,” said Singh.The district administration has, so far, allowed opening of shops selling essential goods such as electric fans, air conditioners (ACs) and its repair shops, electricians, supply of books, stationery shops, vehicle repair and supply of spare parts, supply of electrical and sanitary goods, supply of construction material such as cement, bricks, sand, plywood, glass etc, supply of inverters, plumber and carpenter services and supply of hardware and paints. The shopkeepers have been allowed counter sales from 7am to 6pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-traders-hold-flag-march-demanding-opening-of-all-shops/story-AmTl7PLbq8wVee4nGRfgpI.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Decision to open schools will be taken after lockdown ends: HP education minister||Himachal Pradesh education minister Suresh Bhardwaj on Friday said the decision to open schools will be taken after the end of lockdown period. During a meeting organised with the officials of directorate of higher education under the chairmanship of education minister, it was proposed that primary schools having students less than 20 should be opened in June. The decision will be taken after receiving guidelines of the Union government.However, morning assembly and sports activities will not take place.Apart from this, it was decided that answersheets of top hundred students of Class 10 and 12 will be checked twice so that there is no doubt in making the merit list.Bhardwaj said all examinations of Class 10 have been completed and the papers were sent to teachers for checking. The result will be declared in first week of June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/decision-to-open-schools-will-be-taken-after-lockdown-ends-hp-education-minister/story-KX9XThErxdsoD13oqY3jIO.html
15-05-2020||City||HT Chandigarh debate: Those who can afford it should pay school fees during the lockdown, say residents||SCHOOLS MUST BE GIVEN SOME RELAXATIONS TOOPrivate schools have to take care of their own finances and provide quality education to students. Their contribution must be recognised and in the present scenario, some relaxation must be given to them. It is desirable that the heads of private schools discuss the issue with the director, school education, Chandigarh. Usha Verma, ChandigarhGOVERNMENT SHOULD FUND SCHOOLSIt is not a good idea to expect private schools not to take fees from students and hold back the salaries of teachers, who work hard and are also conducting online classes now. However, to find a middle path, some fee concession should be given to parents facing financial problems. Schools need money to pay the salaries of teachers and non-teaching staff and to look after other expenses such as maintenance and upkeep of buildings, electricity and other costs. If the government does not want them to take tuition fee then it should fund the schools.Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhDON’T MAKE PARENTS PAY FOR FACILITIES NOT USEDI’m a parent and my children study in a private school in Chandigarh. It seems neither the school education department nor schools want to focus on real issues during this time of the pandemic. - Schools are only interested in full fee and want it paid as soon as possible- Schools are least bothered about teachers and their salaries. In most schools teachers are paid peanuts and are on yearly contract so they don’t have to be paid gratuity and many have unqualified teachers. Very few schools have teachers with Central Teacher Eligibility Test (CTET) qualification in Chandigarh- No school wants to share its balance sheet and details of FDs- No school in the current situation is asking parents to go for National Council for Educational Research and Training books and most parents sooner than later have to buy books from the school or the booksellers they remember. This loot is going on for years but there isn’t any strong law or action.While the education department asked parents not to pay fees till the lockdown was lifted, many parents think schools need funds for salaries and other small expenses. However, when I paid the fee last month, I noticed the schools were charging development fee (Rs 5,000-plus), One time fee (Rs 400-plus), computer lab fee and other lab fee as well (Rs. 1000-plus). Many parents are fine with tuition fee but when children are not using school infrastructure why should schools should charge lab fees and development fee at least during the lockdown?DineshCHARGE FEES ON PRO RATA BASISSchools authorities should charge fees on pro rata basis to meet unavoidable expenses incurred during the lockdown. At the same time they should display their income and expenditure statements on notice boards or websites for transparency. The schools can also afford to meet the liabilities from the reserve funds they have been creating. In future they should be vigilant to curtail expenses according to the changed times.S K Gupta, MohaliCONSIDER EACH FAMILY’S SITUATIONI am a student of Panjab University and had been a student of a private school in Chandigarh, so I feel I am a perfect candidate to answer the question on schools charging fees during the lockdown. According to me the school fees is divided into many sub-parts such as the tuition fee, transport fee, lab fee, infrastructure fee, activity fee, admission fee and so on. During the lockdown only the tuition fees should be taken from the students to pay the teachers. There is no point in taking full fees from the parents as their children are not using some services. Also taking private tuitions and coaching classes into account, same rules should be imposed on them. Many parents who have their own businesses have negligible sources of income nowadays, so each family’s financial situation has to be considered. Ridhima Gupta, Student of University Institute of Engineering and Technology, ChandigarhAUDIT SCHOOL ACCOUNTSThis is not the end of the world for private schools. Students should get a fee waiver as education is the fundamental right of every citizen . As far as salaries of teachers are concerned audit of the accounts of the schools should be done by the regulatory authority to see how much money the schools have in reserve for necessary expenditure.Rajesh Mehta SHARE THE BURDEN EQUALLYA lockdown for such a long period is the first of its kind which is now leading to an economic slowdown all over the country. Under such trying and testing conditions it is the moral duty of every citizen and institution to respond positively to the best of their ability. Teachers and other school staff must be paid salaries. Likewise, parents must pay fees to schools as the institutes cannot bear the whole burden. Let us share the burden equally. Paramjeet SinghPARENTS WHO CAN AFFORD TO SHOULD PAY THE FEEMany parents will find it tough to pay the school fees during the lockdown. We know how badly the country has been faring economically in the last few months. Paying school fees in this situation will be tough. Even though some relaxations have been given by the government to allow people to run their businesses, many have not fully opened up. If we look the industries, only a few workers are allowed to work. That’s why many people do not have the money to pay fees. However, the schools are in a similar situation, some need money to pay teachers and cover other expenses. The best thing to do would be for schools not to charge fees but parents who can afford to do so should give it and others should not be pressurised. Schools running short of funds should be given half salaries to meet day to day costs.Manoj Pillai THIS IS NOT THE TIME TO MAKE PROFITSKeeping in mind that this period is a very sensitive time having direct implication on economic instability of individuals it is suggested that no fee be charged during the lockdown period. If schools do require the money urgently they should charge fees on a monthly basis, that too without any additional administrative charges. Some schools should also consider fee waivers as this is not the time to make profits but to act on humanitarian grounds as well.Ramandeep Kaur Bhogal, MohaliSCHOOLS SHOULD SET EXAMPLESThe primary responsibility of a school is to educate students. This is the time for institutes to help out the youngsters and their families by charging a basic fee for salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff and not for services and facilities not being used by the students. Ask for fees to be paid on a voluntary basis – those who have the financial resources to do so should pay. Form a fee pool and ask parents who can to contribute for additional expenses. Reach out to alumni for help. Do everything possible to generate funds to keep the school going, but not to make a profit.AK Gupta||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ht-chandigarh-debate-those-who-can-afford-it-should-pay-school-fees-during-the-lockdown-say-residents/story-ZXEBnPUFBAaiumXzXLdT6M.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||J&K admn evacuates 49,218 residents via Lakhanpur, brings back 7,264 through special trains so far||The administration has evacuated 49,218 people through Lakhanpur besides bringing back home 7,264 persons through special trains at Jammu and Udhampur till May 15.According to a detailed breakup, Rajdhani from Delhi has brought over 900 stranded J&K residents to Jammu on Friday morning while two trains —one from Delhi and another from Aligarh—reached at Udhampur railway station carrying 523 and 781 passengers respectively.These were fifth and sixth trains respectively to Udhampur since the government began the exercise of running Shramik trains to Jammu and Kashmir.“Special train from Aligarh mostly had students from AMU and others, who were left stranded there. They were mostly from Kashmir,” he said.As per the guidelines all the returnees are being screened and sampled before being sent to administrative quarantine in their respective districts, he added.Meanwhile, 50 people from Kashmir that included 14 students, who were stranded in Assam, arrived in Jammu on Friday morning.At Udhampur, the trains were received by deputy commissioner Piyush Singla who had a brief interaction with the passengers about their journey and facilities. He said that the Udhampur district administration has made elaborate arrangements for reception and departure of these passengers to their homes in different districts of J&K. “Corona warriors are facilitating the returnees to reach their homes,” he added.DC said that the district authorities are ensuring strict adherence to the guidelines issued by ministry of home affairs regarding Covid-19 during the boarding and de-boarding process in the district. It is being ensured that passengers observe social distancing and wear masks.As per the official communiqué, of 49,218 returnees till May 15 (morning) coming via Lakhanpur included 11,513 from Punjab; 18,286 from Himachal Pradesh, 3,905 from Delhi, 650 from Gujrat, 1,538 from Rajasthan, 2,401 from Haryana, 96 from Chhattisgarh, 2,666 from Uttarakhand, 326 from Maharashtra, 2,766 from Uttar Pradesh, 42 from Odisha, 35 from Assam, 814 from Madhya Pradesh, 88 from Dehradun, 486 from Chandigarh, 316 from Telangana, 142 from Bihar and 3,148 from other states and UTs till May 15 morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-admn-evacuates-49-218-residents-via-lakhanpur-brings-back-7-264-through-special-trains-so-far/story-ObMEwyMS4KO7uOLrekghGO.html
15-05-2020||City||Covid positive pregnant woman, 5-year-old wait 12 hours for ambulance||After a five-month-old pregnant woman and her five-year-old daughter tested positive for Covid- 19 on Thursday, they had to wait for over 12 hours for an ambulance to take them to hospital. The woman’s husband, an autorickshaw driver, had tested positive earlier and is in hospital. His family, living at Panchpakhadi, was home quarantined.The man’s brother said, “We called for an ambulance around 10.30am. The ambulance operators kept delaying, saying that they have many calls lined up.”The woman and her daughter were made to sit in a room. Till 10.30pm, there was no ambulance. The brother said, “At 9.30pm, they informed us that there was a bed in Vedant Hospital, however ambulance was still unavailable. We then called the local corporator who arranged for an ambulance. When we reached the hospital, there was no empty bed and the admission procedure went on beyond midnight.”Narayan Pawar, the local corporator, has drafted a letter to the chief minister, seeking action against the Covid cell and the officials.Pawar said, “If TMC does not have enough ambulances, they should hire private ambulances for residents. I have asked the CM to intervene and take notice of the mismanagement of the Covid cell in the city.”Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said he would ensure such incidents are not repeated. “I have heard about the incident which is unfortunate. An inquiry will be conducted as to why the ambulance did not reach the patient for so long. We will take disciplinary action against errant officials.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-positive-pregnant-woman-5-year-old-wait-12-hours-for-ambulance/story-7AIZ7e9q88PjLtzFkQ1C5K.html
15-05-2020||City||Over 27,000 migrants leave on 23 trains from Punjab, Chandigarh||Over 27,000 migrants left for their home states on 23 trains that departed from Chandigarh and different stations of Punjab on Friday.Of these, 17 trains are operated by the Ferozepur division, including eight that departed from Ludhiana, five from Jalandhar city, and two each from Amritsar and Ferozepur. As many as six trains left from the stations of Ambala Division, including two each from SAS Nagar and Chandigarh, and one each from Sirhind and Patiala.Divisional railway manager Rajesh Agrawal said that the maximum number of trains from the Northern region were flagged off from the Ferozepur Division. So far, 150 trains have been flagged off from the northern region, of which as many as 104 were from the Ferozepur Division. In the division, the maximum number of trains, 51, left from the Ludhiana railway station followed by Jalandhar with 40 trains.“Around 1.25 lakh migrants have been sent home on 104 trains, of which 73 left for Uttar Pradesh, 22 for Bihar, four for Jharkhand, two for Madhya Pradesh, and one each for Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal,” said the DRM.The frequency of trains will be increased in coming days as per the request of the district administrations, he said.312 PASSENGERS BOARDED THE RAJDHANI SPECIAL FROM LUDHIANAAs many as 312 passengers boarded the special Rajdhani Express running between New Delhi and Jammu Tawi, from Ludhiana. Of these, 175 persons boarded the train to New Delhi while 137 travelled to Jammu Tawi.The passengers were screened and train was sanitised before they were allowed to board.Apart from this, 281 persons de-boarded the train at the city railway station, 81 travelled from Jammu Tawi and 200 from New Delhi. These passengers were recommended 14-day home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-27-000-migrants-leave-on-23-trains-from-punjab-chandigarh/story-sIN3f5SH5EEnhHyNNOSpPL.html
15-05-2020||City||2 cops suspended, 2 transferred for taking bribe from chemist||Two constables, Amol Rahul and Kiran Ghuge from Navghar police station have been suspended for allegedly taking Rs 18,300 bribe from a Bhayander (East)-based chemist who allegedly sold an energy drink to a customer during lockdown while two other constables have also been transferred to the Thane Rural police control room as punishment. The incident took place on May 6 when the constables allegedly also disrobed the chemist and demanded Rs 1 lakh. They forcibly took away the cash and let him off. The chemist complained to higher authorities in Thane Rural police and the action was initiated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-cops-suspended-2-transferred-for-taking-bribe-from-chemist/story-j84jnTLX4VxdWZ93rLTKeI.html
15-05-2020||Lucknow||Good news: 42 more Covid patients recover, discharged in Agra||Amidst reports of a constant rise in Covid-19 cases, there was something positive for the Agra district administration when 42 more corona patients were discharged from an isolation facility on the Mathura-Agra highway on Friday.After this, the number of corona patients discharged after recovery stood at 431 in the district while the number of active cases was 328. Four new Covid-19 positive cases were reported on Thursday night, taking total number of cases to 789. So far, Agra had seen 27 deaths due to coronavirus, said officials.“Forty-two patients, who had recovered, were discharged from an isolation centre. This brought down the number of active cases to 328 on Friday,” said Prabhu N Singh, district Magistrate, Agra.“Besides, 46 other Covid-19 patients have also tested negative in the first report. According to the new discharge policy, patients who have spent 14 days in quarantine and have tested negative in the first report can be discharged. Discharge of these patients will take place shortly,” he added.“It is a positive sign that the number of patients recovered is rising. Fresh cases, which have surfaced, are reported from hotspots or containment zones. This in itself is a good sign as we can trace the chain,” said the DM, adding that 30 out of 44 hotspots in Agra were in urban areas.As part of measures to check spread of infection, entry and exit points were being regulated in containment zones while ambulances were stationed to help those who needing them, he stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/good-news-42-more-covid-patients-discharged-in-agra/story-nsJY5YA6CXploY9sRbFimN.html
15-05-2020||Lucknow||Over 13.5 lakh migrant workers have reached Uttar Pradesh till date: Officials||Over 13.5 lakh migrant workers have reached Uttar Pradesh from other states by trains, buses and by their own vehicles till Friday, said officials. “Between March 1 and April 30, 6.5 lakh labourers came from Delhi. Till now 380 trains have brought over 4.70 lakh of them besides over 70,000 have come by buses from other states,” Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi told reporters here. “About 1.5 lakh have come by their own vehicles. A total of over 13.5 lakh migrants have come so far in the state,” he added. He said about one lakh migrants are expected to reach the state on Friday on 70 trains and this will continue as the government was doing whatever possible to bring back its people stranded in elsewhere in the country. “Four trains from Delhi will reach Varanasi and Gorakhpur on Friday. Trains will also run from Noida and Ghaziabad to Bihar and Purvanchal,” he said, adding maximum number of 201 trains have come Gujarat till now. He said UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) has deployed 11,964 buses including its own and those on contract to take migrants home from railway stations and from one district to others. Directives have also been given to provide mask, gloves and sanitisers in buses, he said, adding the database of all those coming will be utilised for providing them work and other benefits. He said the CM has also directed police to increase patrolling. Principal Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad, meanwhile, said that health workers have surveyed 2.62 lakh migrant workers of which 305 had cough, cold, fever and other symptoms of coronavirus infection. “Samples of such cases have been sent for testing and the report is awaited,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/over-13-5-lakh-migrant-workers-reach-uttar-pradesh-till-date-officials/story-30DPmkOO4aMOcJl3Eg4I9K.html
15-05-2020||City||2,720 migrants from Mohali leave on trains for Hardoi, Bettiah||Two Shramik Special trains left the Mohali railway station for Hardoi in Uttar Pradesh and Bettiah in West Champaran, Bihar, on Friday. The train for Hardoi left at 10am carrying 1,392 migrant workers from Mohali, Rupnagar and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar (Nawanshahr), while the train for Bettiah left in the evening with 1,328 passengers.Elation was writ large on the faces of the migrants going back to their native places, and they expressed gratitude to the district administration for providing them food and water, and making elaborate preparations for their journey back home.Another 734 migrants from Madhya Pradesh were sent by the district administration to Sirhind from where they boarded a train to Katni with stoppages at Gwalior and Bina.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-720-migrants-from-mohali-leave-on-trains-for-hardoi-bettiah/story-jaxewMeBXXhkJHSwk2puaP.html
15-05-2020||Mumbai||105 ONGC personnel airlifted from Patna to Mumbai||The Air India Friday operated special charter flights to ferry 105 ONGC personnel from Patna, who would replace the staff working continuously for the past 60 days on oil exploration rigs and production platforms at Bombay High, an off-shore oil field, 176 km (approx) off the west coast of Mumbai.Another flight, with nearly 120 ONGC workers, is scheduled to return to Patna later in the evening.The ONGC is mobilising around 5,000 personnel across the country to rotate its staff, stranded on duty and otherwise at different locations across India. “So far, we have lifted our personnel from Delhi, Chennai, Kochi and Kolkata, following all the precautions as prescribed by the Centre,” said Deependu Kumar, chief engineer (drilling), Sagar Vijay Oil Exploration Rig, Bombay High.“Our company has taken all requisite clearances from the government before moving our logistics, taking full precautions and maintaining social distancing, keeping the middle seat inside the aircraft vacant during transportation of its personnel,” he said.The officials, who flew to Mumbai from Patna, were lifted from Bihar, Jharkhand and eastern UP. The Patna hub caters to Bihar, Jharkhand and eastern Uttar Pradesh.“They will be taken to the ONGC’s Juhu heli-base to be finally taken by choppers to our exploration site,” said Gautam Kumar, superintending engineer (production), who was coordinating the operation in Patna.Swab samples of each of the ONGC staff were tested prior to departure, he added.The 109 people who returned to Mumbai from Patna, had come to their respective hometowns, while those on field duty, both on-shore and off-shore, were stranded due to the lockdown. Oil operation comes under the Essential Services Maintenance Act.“An Airbus-320 aircraft from Mumbai lifted 105 ONGC personnel from here at 10am. We expect another charter flight, with ONGC personnel from Mumbai, to reach Patna around 5.30pm,” said Neeraj Sinha, Air India’s airport manager, Patna. “We took full precautions, as per the new standard operating procedure, before allowing the passengers on board,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/105-ongc-personnel-airlifted-from-patna-to-mumbai/story-AY2EM5xeu2kudILs6QGezL.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal govt urges people to contribute towards Covid response fund||The Himachal Pradesh government on Friday urged people of the state to generously contribute towards COVID-19 State Disaster Response Fund.A government spokesperson said chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has been presented cheques towards COVID-19 response fund from various organisations and individuals.Among major contributors is Baba Balak Nath Trust, Hamirpur, which contributed Rs 5 crore. Others include Himachal Road Transport Corporation, HP State Agriculture Marketing Board, HP Board of School Education, HP State Forest Development Corporation. HP Ex-Serviceman Corporation, Hamirpur, and HP State Co-Operative Bank, Shimla, have contributed Rs 51 lakh each and Indusland Bank Sanjauli Shimla has contributed Rs 50 lakh.“The state disaster response fund has been created for contributions, donations, voluntary endowment, grants for the purpose to fight COVID-19 pandemic. The state government has urged people of the state to contribute wholeheartedly and generously towards this fund,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-govt-urges-people-to-contribute-towards-covid-response-fund/story-qLdQQDwy4mQvEgrgKbMQaI.html
15-05-2020||Patna||Covid-19 tally breaches four-digit mark in Bihar||The Covid-19 tally in Bihar breached the four-digit-mark on Friday after at least six people tested positive for the novel coronavirus, taking the total number of confirmed cases in the state to 1,005, a top official said. According to Principal Secretary, Health, Sanjay Kumar, five of the cases were reported from Khagaria district, while one person tested positive in Siwan. All of them are adult males.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage The state had reported its first couple of cases on March 22 and the tally crossed the 100-mark on April 19. The steep rise in incidence since then has been attributed, to some extent, to influx of migrants who have been returning to their native places in droves, by the ‘Shramik Special’ trains or hired vehicles. Bihar Health Department has put the number of “migrants testing positive” between May 4 and May 15 (till 10 AM) at 358. A total of 2.46 lakh people have come to the state by the rail route, ever since the first Bihar-bound ‘Shramik Special’ reached Danapur on May 2, officials said. Government officials coming in close contact with infected people have also been found to be vulnerable to the infection. The department on Friday confirmed that a young IAS officer of 2017 batch, posted in Nalanda district, was among those who had tested positive on Tuesday. In addition, more than 30 police personnel have tested positive across the state, 21 of them from Bihar Military Polices 14th battalion at Khajpura locality in Patna, where an infection chain was triggered with over 20 residents of a by-lane Bijli Gali having tested positive last month. Nonetheless, Bihar boasts of a good recovery rate and a low mortality rate. Till Friday morning, the number of those who have recovered stood at 412. Only seven persons have died most of them with co-morbidities the figure being a tiny fraction of the nationwide fatalities, though the state comprises 10 per cent of the country’s population. The number of samples tested so far is 43,371, the department said. With the recent spurt, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has been making efforts to drastically raise the daily average of testing currently at around 1,800 samples to 10,000 or more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/covid-19-tally-breaches-four-digit-mark-in-bihar/story-ljliCyfWjBl1ePXk8BvlSI.html
15-05-2020||City||Zirakpur man booked for raping, impregnating 21-year-old cousin||Police have booked a Zirakpur man for allegedly raping and impregnating his 21-year-old cousin.The victim, who works as a domestic help in AKS Colony, Zirakpur, told the police that she was out to buy milk around 9pm on March 26, when her paternal aunt’s son dragged her to his room and raped her.Her cousin threatened to kill her and her family if she told anyone about the incident.The crime came to light when the victim got herself examined by a doctor after falling ill , who discovered that she is pregnant.Acting on her compliant, police have registered a case under Sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code at the Zirakpur police station against her cousin. Efforts are on to arrest him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/zirakpur-man-booked-for-raping-impregnating-21-year-old-cousin/story-x5XNNW3YZ35Psaw3gruldL.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University: Apply for re-evaluation of answer sheets by May 30||Panjab University has extended the last date to apply for re-evaluation of answer sheets till May 30.PU’s controller of examination Parvinder Singh said, “In view of the Covid-19 lockdown, we extended the last date for students whose results were declared from March 1 till date. Candidates of UG and PG courses can apply online for re-evaluation on the university website and pay their fee online by registering on https://payonline.puchd.ac.in, or through post.”No further extension will be given, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-apply-for-re-evaluation-of-answer-sheets-by-may-30/story-ZX2VuivyXTly0Xw8TM8A6O.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University’s UBS organises online session on research software||University Business School (UBS), Panjab University, organised an online session on the Mendeley software for students of the department, who intend to take up academic research as a career, on Friday.The hands-on session titled “Mendeley: Reference management and research for early-career researchers” was organised for the finance group of UBS and conducted by Neha Gulati. The objective of the two-and-a-half hour session was to facilitate researchers in augmenting innovativeness and manuscript writing skills.Students explored features of the software and experimented with its functions to organise, handle and filter research in their personalised libraries.“The participants were engrossed by the power of this software to automatically generate citations and bibliographies in thousands of different styles while preparing the manuscript. Thus, a novel pathway for literature search, archiving and retrieval has been initiated,” Gulati said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-s-ubs-organises-online-session-on-research-software/story-jebRr0N5joqfnjXFSM3JSL.html
15-05-2020||City||79 civic teachers to face suspension for not participating in coronavirus survey work||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has issued notices to another 24 teachers of civic schools and 55 pre-primary teachers (anganwadi teachers) for not taking part in Covid-19 (coronavirus) survey work. The teachers are warned of action if they failed to join duty, according to a civic official.Meenakshi Raut, PMC school board administrative officer, issued the notices to these teachers on Thursday (May 14) directing them to join duty immediately or face suspension.Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal had suspended 12 teachers a few weeks earlier for failing to join the survey work.The notice issued by Raut states that “as these teachers are not participating in the survey work, the health department submitted the report. The school board has issued them a final notice and forwarded the to additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal for final action”.Vaishali Jadhav, PMC assistant health chief who is incharge of survey work, said, “A total of 944 teams are carrying out door-to-door survey in the city and the fourth round is on. With many teachers remaining absent, it becomes tough to make alternate arrangement for survey work. Some teachers are not joining duty despite giving reminders. Hence, we gave the report to additional municipal commissioner.”Jadhav said that at least 3,000 staff are involved in the survey work.The survey work is going on under the leadership of Jadhav in the city. The survey teams include staff from health department, various departments of PMC and teachers from school board.The survey teams visit houses and take information from residents regarding symptoms related to Covid-19 and also guide them regarding the flu centres set up by the civic body. The teams also carry out contact tracing of Covid-19 positive cases and immediately send them for screening.One of the health department officer on condition of anonymity said, “As there is panic regarding Covid-19, teachers are avoiding the duties by giving various reasons. As health department staff are aware of the medical situation, they are doing the duty seriously.”One of the teachers who got the notice said, “For every work, the government involves teachers. The survey work poses health risk. I have small kids and no one is at home to take care of them. Who will look after my children when I am out for survey duty with no maid coming at home? Even parents are not allowed at home to look after kids because of the lockdown.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/79-civic-teachers-to-face-suspension-for-not-participating-in-coronavirus-survey-work/story-3oF8mg5xOCgplgloaIqHGO.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Burail woman arrested for strangling husband to death||A woman from Burail village in Sector 45 has been arrested for strangling her husband to death on Tuesday night. The accused, Radha, was arrested after the autopsy revealed that her husband, Mani Ram, a painter, died of asphyxia due to strangulation and found nail marks on his neck.After the crime, the woman had brought the man, who was around 40 years old, to the Sector 45 dispensary, where he was declared brought dead. The police were then called in and the body was moved to the mortuary at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16.Police said the deceased was tested for Covid-19 before the autopsy. They said the victim was a drunkard, and was drunk on Tuesday evening as well when his wife attacked him. According to their neighbours, the couple used to quarrel frequently. On the complaint of the victim’s cousin, Brijesh Kumar, who also lives in Sector 45, police have booked Radha under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code.The accused was presented in court on Friday and sent to judicial custody. This is the third murder in the city since the curfew was imposed on March 24. A dhaba owner was murdered in Sector 27 on April 20, and a youth allegedly killed his brother at Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26 on March 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/burail-woman-arrested-for-strangling-husband-to-death/story-9p0hTFvNOqQYqFKoPKrWKJ.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||HP govt waives off four-month token tax, road tax of public and private service vehicles||The Himachal Pradesh government has exempted private and public service vehicles from payment of token tax and special road tax for four months, from April 1 to July 31.A notification to this effect was issued by principal secretary (transport) Jagdish Chander Sharma on Thursday.Transport sector is the worst hit by the Covid-19 outbreak. On March 24, the Union ministry of home affairs had issued a notification imposing a nation-wide lockdown and as a result there is no plying of public service vehicles. Movement of goods vehicles has also been restricted and income of transport sector has been adversely hit, the notification reads.To provide relief to the transporters, the governor of Himachal Pradesh in exercise of powers conferred under Section 14(3) of HP Motor Vehicle Taxation Act, 1972, orders to exempt public service vehicles, goods vehicles, education institutional buses and private services vehicles from payment of token tax and special road tax.The taxes for the month of March will be payable with those for August if earlier not paid, by treating the non-operational days during the lockdown period with effect from March 21 to 31, 2020 compensated in the above exempted period.The penalties related to the late renewal of permits due to delay due to Covid-19 have also been waived off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hp-govt-waives-off-four-month-token-tax-road-tax-of-public-and-private-service-vehicles/story-UwTrQsds0IsYQPLRpmcNlL.html
15-05-2020||City||Ludhiana admn reserves 950 beds in hotels and govt facilities to foreign returnees||The district administration has reserved 950 beds in hotels and government buildings inside Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) to quarantine foreign returnees, said Sanyam Aggarwal, nodal officer, Covid-19, Ludhiana, on Friday.He said that while 800 beds have been reserved in hotels, 150 are in PAU.Stating that currently there are eight foreign returnees in the district, he said that Ludhiana is expected more influx in the coming days.In a press statement issued here on Friday, Aggarwal informed that around 250 persons have confirmed about their return to the city to the district administration. We are expecting nearly 1,000 such persons as many of them will also be accompanied by their family members. He said that majority of these people are from Dubai, United States of America, Canada, Australia and United Arab Emirates.The nodal officer said all persons will be screened for Covid-19. If a person is symptomatic, their samples would be taken, but in case they don’t show any symptoms on arrival, their samples will be taken after they complete the 14-day quarantine period, Aggarwal said. He stated those found positive for Covid-19 would be shifted either to the Ludhiana civil hospital, or the Mother Child Hospital near Vardhman, here.He said those staying at the government facilities will be charged ₹500 for double occupancy and ₹300 for single occupancy. These also include the food charges.He said the district administration had tied up with hotels, where foreign returnees can stay on payment basis. He said the charges of private hotels start from ₹1,300 per day, including food, for single occupancy and the room can be shared between two persons if they belong to the same family. He said around 20 hotels with 800 rooms have registered themselves with the district administration in Ludhiana. He said the people will be given an option to stay in a hotel or in a government facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-admn-develops-950-bed-facilities-for-foreign-returnees/story-UcXmoz7xYVLCEKjqO13PLJ.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Maintain coordination with representatives of panchayats, urban local bodies: Himachal CM to DCs||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Friday directed all deputy commissioners to maintain proper coordination with the Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) and Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) in their respective district.While addressing the deputy commissioners, superintendents of police and chief medical officer through video conferencing, the CM said the concerned district authorities must provide advance information to these representatives about the arrival of people in their panchayats and towns.He said the ‘Nigah’ team alongwith ASHA workers and other health workers must reach out to such families in advance and sensitise them to ensure proper isolation and social distancing of the returnees. “They must also ensure that people have adequate accommodation for maintaining social distancing besides having separate washroom to quarantine the returnees in the house,” he added.The CM said if such facility is unavailable, panchayats must arrange for their stay by adopting proper quarantine protocol.All those coming from red zone areas need to be kept under institutional quarantine, he said.“They should be tested for Covid-19 within a week of arrival and shifted to home quarantine if the test result comes out negative,” Thakur said.He said people coming from orange and green zones should be kept under home quarantine and could be randomly tested. “A foolproof mechanism needs to be developed for home quarantine as any laxity could prove damaging,” the CM said, adding that violation of home quarantine norms should be dealt firmly.Thakur said since developmental works have now gradually started in the state, therefore, it must be ensured that workers of PWD, Jal Shakti, rural development departments and MNREGA must be allowed to work even beyond relaxation in curfew hours for time-bound completion of works.“Similarly, bankers are also required to work for full office hours and must be allowed free movement,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/maintain-coordination-with-representatives-of-panchayats-urban-local-bodies-himachal-cm-to-dcs/story-QSRJcchRNWX0oSkaADcNRN.html
15-05-2020||Education||Rajasthan students learning with SMILE during lockdown||Every morning Lakhvindra Singh walks around 1FD village in Sriganganagar district in northern Rajasthan, announcing: “School ka samay ho gaya, sab video dekho (It’s time for school, everyone watch the video).” The 37-year-old government schoolteacher posted secondary school reminds the parents the video has landed in mobile phone of parents and that they should show it to their children.In eastern Rajasthan’s Karauli district, around the same time, Rameshwar Bhairwa watches the video with his two children, in Class 1 and 9. The 38-year-old of Azizpur village says he learns with his children. “I am lucky to be part of my children’s education. The videos are so interesting that even I like to watch them,” he said.Every morning at 9, videos land in 20,000 WhatsApp grounds across the state through which the education department delivers e-content for digital learning. The groups are named SMILE, acronym for department’s initiative called Social Media Interface for Learning Engagement.“Education department has launched several initiatives to ensure continuous learning for all students through digital means in this crisis period. The department’s objective is to keep students engaged at home and to prevent learning gaps in this crisis period,” said Manju Rajpal, secretary of school education department.SMILE programme is one of those initiatives. All students of Class 1 to 12 get 30-40 minutes of e-content at 9am in WhatsApp groups of their parents. “Children in 13 lakh households and 3.4 lakh teachers are connected with the programme through the WhatsApp groups,” Rajpal said.Government teachers are mandated to call five parents or students every day to motivate the child to watch videos and clear any doubts that they may have in the e-content. “Teachers have a personal connect with their students and their calls will add immense value to our efforts in creating impact,” the secretary said. Many teachers, like Singh of Sriganganagar, go around the village to remind parents about the video every morning.On Saturdays, there’s a quiz to test e-learning. Panchayat-level education officers (PEEO) have created two groups each; one is for parents and the second, for teachers. The e-content is reviewed by a team of experts at Rajasthan State Council of Education Research and Training (RSCERT), state’s academic body. The department’s digital library currently has over 500 videos and is publically available through the SMILE YouTube channel for any child to access.Rajpal said the department has received more than 1,000 videos from teachers from every district across grades and competencies since the programme was launched on April 9 during the lockdown to prevent spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19).For students who don’t have access to internet, the department has launched a radio programme called Shikshavani. This is a one-hour broadcast on 25 stations of All India Radio, which begins at 11am. “The content includes interesting stories and recordings on life-skills for children,” Rajpal said.Education minister Govind Singh Dotasara held a video conference on Thursday to review the programmes. More than 4,000 officials of the department attended the review.“We have received feedback from over 2.5 lakh parents, students and teachers on the e-content. 92% students and parents reported to like the material being sent and found it beneficial. 96% teachers reported to like the e-content,” the minister said after the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/rajasthan-students-learning-with-smile-during-lockdown/story-mPOlFMXklxgVcUeisqJlIM.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Another special train brings back stranded Himachal residents from Goa||A Shramik special train ferrying 1,486 residents of Himachal Pradesh who were stranded in Goa reached the Una railway station on Friday morning.The 24-coach train departed from Goa on Wednesday and was scheduled to reach Una at 3:00am on Friday. However, it was delayed by around 4 hours and arrived instead at 7:00am.Among the returnees, 415 people were from Mandi; 397 from Kullu; 322 from Kangra; 128 from Chamba; 80 from Shimla; 53 from Hamirpur; 37 from Solan; 24 from Bilaspur; 20 from Sirmaur; 7 from Una, two from Lahaul-Spiti and one from Kinnaur, deputy commissioner Sandeep Kumar said.The teams deployed at the station welcomed the returnees by clapping. The passengers were made to deboard the train district-wise and were screened for Covid-19 symptoms.They were also provided hand sanitisers, masks and food packets arranged by the district administration. Besides, teams of volunteers were deployed at the station for screening and distribution of food packets.The DC said passengers were sent to their home districts in Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) buses. All returnees will be placed under quarantine in their respective district and will be tested for Covid-19.More than 400 people are still stranded in Goa as there was no space left to accommodate them in the train. They were ferried back to labour camps by the authorities in Goa and the railways may run another train to bring them back to their native state.On Wednesday, a Shramik special train with around 700 Himachal residents had arrived in Una from Bengaluru. The Railways started running the special train from Goa and Karnataka to Una to facilitate the movement of stranded residents after chief minister Jai Ram Thakur made a request to Union railway minister Piyush Goyal last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/another-special-train-brings-back-stranded-himachal-residents-from-goa/story-Bb2bDyvO96hCUVApyDdGKK.html
15-05-2020||Lucknow||Covid-19: 4 new deaths, 43 fresh infections in UP, tally nears 4,000||Forty-three people tested positive for Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh on Friday, bringing the number of cases to 3,945, while four more deaths pushed the toll to 92, officials said. The districts from where the fresh fatalities have been reported were not immediately known, a senior health official said. “A total of 3,945 cases have been reported so far in the state from 75 districts, of which 1,773 are active (in 72 districts) while 2,080 people have been discharged from hospitals after recovery. Till now, 92 deaths have been reported in the state,” Principal Secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage Of the total fatalities, Agra has reported the highest number of 24 deaths in the state. It is followed by 15 from Meerut, nine from Moradabad, six from Kanpur Nagar and four each from Firozabad and Mathura. Three deaths each have been reported from Aligarh and Gautam Buddh Nagar, two each from Ghaziabad and Jhansi and one each from Pratapgarh, Sant Kabir Nagar, Hapur, Lalitpur, Allahabad, Etah, Mainpuri, Bijnore, Kanpur Dehat, Amroha, Bareilly, Basti, Bulandshahr, Lucknow, Varanasi and Shravasti.Also read: No train fares for migrants coming to UP now Prasad said 4,878 Covid-19 tests were conducted across the state on Thursday. He said the state is also increasing facility for pool testing of coronavirus samples. “Till now, pool of 5 samples were made. Now it will be increased to pool of 10 samples. As per ICMR guidelines, it can go up to pool of 25 samples,” the officer said. “We are emphasising on surveillance and over three crore people have been surveyed by 75,006 teams in UP. Those having symptoms (of Covid-19) have been provided required treatment,” Prasad said. Covid-19 patients in Uttar Pradesh comprise 74.6 per cent men and 25.4 per cent women, he said, adding Aarogya Setu app is effectively being used and alerts are sent to people. “Health department teams are also calling people based on these alerts. Over 6,500 people were called and of them 14 have been tested and found positive,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/covid-19-4-new-deaths-43-fresh-infections-in-up-tally-nears-4-000/story-ZZpLb5ZP9wBwcUo5YCiaDN.html
15-05-2020||Mumbai||Don’t use 3 Mahul buildings as Covid-19 quarantine facilities without court’s nod: Bombay high court to Mumbai civic body||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to not use the vacant buildings at Mahul – meant for resettlement of project-affected persons (PAPs) – as quarantine centres for suspected Covid-19 patients without permission from the court.The bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Amjad Sayed passed the order, even as BMC stated that the three empty buildings at the Mahul PAP Colony, also known as Eversmile Complex, will be used only as a last resort, if the suspected coronavirus patients could not be accommodated elsewhere in the M-West ward.The court was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) jointly filed by Sharda Tevar – the mother of an undertrial prisoner lodged at Arthur Road jail – and a non-governmental organisation (NGO) – Ghar Bachao Ghar Banao Andolan – which is working along with the homeless, slum dwellers and marginalised communities on housing, food and water rights issues.The petitioners contended that Mahul is the most unsuitable area in the city to quarantine Covid-19 patients and suspects, as residents in the locality develop a variety of health issues, particularly severe respiratory problems, and it will be counter-productive to quarantine Covid-19 patients at PAP Colony.Their PIL stated that patients suffering from Covid-19 already have severely compromised immunities, which manifest in severe respiratory illnesses such as pneumonia. So sending suspected Covid-19 patients to Mahul would defeat the very purpose of quarantining them and would instead accelerate their respiratory ailments, and could even prove to be fatal to such patients.“Indeed, others who have been rehabilitated to Mahul in the past have reported a series of severe respiratory ailments like asthma and tuberculosis within a short period of moving to Mahul,” the PIL said.According to the petitioners’ counsel, advocate Ronita Bector, three judicial forums have declared the PAP Colony to be uninhabitable because of the high levels of industrial pollution and the toxic air quality, and HC had last year in September restrained the state government from shifting any slum dweller or PAP at Eversmile Complex.In response to the petition, BMC has filed an affidavit stating that the number of Covid-19 positive cases is likely to go up to 2,946 in the M-West ward, where Mahul is located, and 70℅ of the cases are expected to be from densely-populated areas, such as slums. It adds that considering 10 contacts of every patient would likely be quarantined, the municipal corporation will have to arrange for a quarantine facility for around 30,000 people, and in the view of an extreme shortage of space for quarantine facilities, it had decided to use the three buildings.The affidavit further stated that the civic body has identified three completely vacant buildings at Eversmile Complex for accommodating 1,100 high-risk and low-risk contacts. But the buildings will be used only as a last resort and only if the number of Covid-19 patients in the ward increases and their contacts could not be quarantined elsewhere.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/don-t-use-3-mahul-buildings-as-covid-19-quarantine-facilities-without-court-s-nod-hc-to-bmc/story-aVqSMpC8u2XrSMF8TwCQ9I.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Desperate to reach home, migrants throng government hospitals for screening||Eager to return home in the ‘Shramik Express’ trains being run by the state government from Jalandhar, migrants threw social distancing guidelines to the wind and thronged the government hospitals for mandatory screening on Friday. Authorities had a tough time managing the rush of migrants apart from regular patients. No trains are running from Kapurthala and migrants are going to Jalandhar to board the train. Workers are allowed to deposit their travel forms when found healthy, which makes them eligible to board the special trains.Dr Sandeep Dhawan of the civil hospital said around 4,000 migrants had been screened and given a fitness certification. “Most come after applying online while some come directly but we are screening all migrants,” said Dhawan.“A large number of migrant workers queued up in hospitals in Phagwara. Around 250 migrants were examined till afternoon and hospital authorities had to deploy a staff member with a loudspeaker to appeal to the migrants to maintain distance,” said senior medical officer Kamal Kishor.The state government is running free trains to Daltonganj in Jharkhand, Katni in Madhya Pradesh, Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh, Gajipur and Banaras in UP, Lucknow, Gorakhpur and Ayodhya, Azamgarh, Darbhanga, Bahraich, Sultanpur, Mujaffar Nagar, Akbarpur, Sultanpur, Barkakhana, Azamgarh, Faizabad, Gorakhpur, Sitapur, Rai Bareli, Pratapgarh, Unnao, to Mau in Uttar Pradesh and Bettiah, Darbhanga, Katihar, Gaya and Chapra in Bhiar from Jalandhar. So far, over 43,000 migrants were sent in 36 trains from Jalandhar railway station. The Jalandhar administration has set up a screening camp at the railway station besides transit camps for migrants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/desperate-to-reach-home-migrants-throng-government-hospitals-for-screening/story-p32kNoZFsFAVTIJlXD2g9M.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee prepares meals for people in quarantine centres in Kashmir||Amid the Covid-19 nationwide lockdown, the Sikh community in Kashmir have started serving langar to people admitted in the quarantine centres.Strict food hygiene practices such as maintaining social distancing and using face masks and gloves were observed while the food was prepared.“We have started serving meals to the Muslim community at various quarantine centres in different districts of the Valley,” said Navtej Singh, secretary of Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (GPC) Srinagar.He said that to date, they have provided meals to around 250 people in Srinagar district on Friday. “We will continue serving food to people in the coming time as well,” he said.After the gurdwara committee received complaints about poor quality food being served at quarantine centres in the district, they decided to do something about it. “There were many people in such centres who were not getting food on time, so we decided to provide food packets to them,” said Balbir Singh, secretary of GPC in Budgam.“A team visits the quarantine centres twice a day to deliver the food packets. They are happy with our service,” said Salinder Singh, president GPC Chatrogam, Tral.The food is also being served at quarantine centres in north Kashmir’s Baramulla district and more than 300 people have been covered under the initiative so far.Pardeep Singh Dardi, a social activist said that Sikhs have always been the front runners in the troubled times across the world. “The community has provided personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, sanitisers, masks, medicines, dry ration and other essential items to the needy people in the valley so far,” he said.“We have been following government guidelines to carry out the relief work. We don’t want anyone to suffer,” said Balwinder Singh, chairman of Sikh Welfare Trust, Kashmir. A student who has been quarantined at a hotel in the city’s Lal Chowk area said, “We have always received a heart-warming response from the community.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gurdwara-parbandhak-committee-prepares-meals-for-people-in-quarantine-centres-in-kashmir/story-91Eheov1i91RSQRlGBcwBO.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||53% Nanded-returnees have recovered in Amritsar||Around 53% pilgrims, who had tested positive for Covid-19 upon their return from Takht Hazur Sahib in Nanded, Maharashtra, have recovered and have been discharged from hospitals.On Friday, 44 Covid-19 positive Nanded-returnees were discharged from the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Amritsar, and 51 patients from the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC)-run Sri Guru Ram Dass (SGRD) Charitable Hospital.Civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said, “As per the health department, 609 pilgrims had returned to Amritsar from Nanded. Around 263 pilgrims tested positive for Covid-19 at the Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) in GMC Amritsar.”RECOVERED PATIENTS HOME QUARANTINED “Around 346 pilgrims, who had tested negative for the disease, have been quarantined in their homes after they finished their 14-day quarantine at government institutions.”“Among the 263, 26 Nanded-returnees were discharged from GMCH on May 12 while 19 were discharged on May 13. On Friday, 95 more Nanded-returnees were discharged from hospitals in Amritsar, after they tested negative for Covid-19 in two consecutive RT-PCR tests,” he said.150 PATIENTS HAVE RECOVERED IN DISTRICT Of the 301 Covid-19 patients in the district, 150 have recovered from the disease. There have been four fatalities.Punjab medical education and research minister OP Soni said, “Around 53% Nanded returnees, 140 out of 263, in Amritsar have recovered from Covid-19. The remaining patients are asymptomatic and stable. They tested positive in their re-tests but are likely to recover soon,” said Soni.“Around 35,000 RT-PCR tests have been conducted in GMC Amritsar, Patiala and Faridkot. As many as 600 tests have been conducted in Amritsar in the last four days and all of them were negative,” said Soni.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/53-nanded-returnees-have-recovered-in-amritsar/story-vcppf6Bbh3jEG7ETlIalZI.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 safety shield a success in Kullu||The Kullu district administration has set up a Covid-19 ‘surksha kavach’ (safety shield) at Bajaura, which is the main entry point to the district, to screen potential coronavirus carriers. Kullu is the first district in Himachal to install a safety shield. Two transparent cabins have been built under the safety shield. In one cabin, details of people going in and out of the district are recorded by the police department, while the health department screens people in the second cabin. People are allowed to pass through or sent to quarantine centers on the basis of the ecommendation of both the police and health department. People arriving from red zones or other states have to mandatorily go to institutional quarantine centers.Kullu deputy commissioner Richa Verma said special emphasis was being laid on social distancing and cleanliness due to the heavy movement of people from other districts. Thanks to the administrations vigilance, no cases of novel coronavirus have been detected in the district. Those bringing in essential supplies are screened on a weekly basis. District administration is making and distributing masks in collaboration with gram panchayats, self-help groups and non-governmental organisations.Village health, sanitation and disaster management committees have been formed in district to implement the state government’s advisories.People from far-flung rural areas are being made aware of the local language.In addition, to making efforts to keep the streets and markets clean, the decision to distribute PPE kits to sanitation workers has also been proved helpful.To ensure social distancing, the district administration is providing the essential goods, medicines and other essential items at their doorsteps of the people so that they do not unnecessarily get out of homes. During the curfew relaxation, social distancing is being ensured in the market with the help of Home Guards and students of NSS and NCC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-safely-shield-a-success-in-kullu/story-xLE1gmNyV6CigtjiYbDBxM.html
15-05-2020||Kolkata||24 passengers of Shramik Special to Purulia get down at Asansol station||At least 24 passengers got down from a Shramik Special train at Asansol station, claiming that they had tickets for Purulia but the train from Bengaluru did not stop there.An Eastern Railway spokesman said here on Friday that the special train had a technical stop at Asansol on Thursday and passengers were not supposed to board or deboard there.But since the passengers refused to travel further on the train, the ER authorities and the Railway Protection Force (RPF) commandant at the station contacted the West Bengal government authorities for their transfer to Purulia by road on Thursday, he said.The 24 passengers underwent medical screening by the state health department officials, following which they were sent to Purulia by bus, the official said.The Shramik Special train was from Bengaluru to New Jalpaiguri railway station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/24-passengers-of-shramik-special-to-purulia-get-down-at-asansol-station/story-1xCbOLSp9zIVrmVqsAFldI.html
15-05-2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan near 5,000-mark; death toll at 125||Rajasthan recorded 55 fresh coronavirus cases on Friday, taking the state’s virus tally to 4,589, an official said.The state has so far seen 125 deaths due to the virus, with Jaipur accounting for 63 deaths.“As many as 55 fresh cases have been reported in nine districts of the state today, including 29 in Kota district,” Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said.Singh said that besides Kota, 11 were reported from Jaipur; nine from Udaipur and one case each in Jhunjhunu, Karauli, Dausa, Dungarpur, Baran and Bharatpur.A total of 4,589 cases of the virus have been reported in the state so far. Apart from these, 267 migrants who have come from other states have tested positive.He said so far 2,646 patients have tested negative for the infection after treatment, of which 2,403 have been discharged from hospitals. The state has 1,818 active cases.The total number of Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan includes two Italian citizens and 61 people brought from Iran to Army health centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer and 43 BSF jawans brought from Delhi.The entire state is under a lockdown since March 22 and a massive survey and screening is underway to track the people infected with the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/covid-19-cases-in-rajasthan-near-5-000-mark-death-toll-at-125/story-rK5pTpqIKuHn042BKqJRxI.html
15-05-2020||Ranchi||State govt bearing transport fares of migrant workers: Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Thursday said the state government was bearing the transport costs of migrant workers and would bring back all the labourers stranded outside the state in a “systematic manner”.Jharkhand was making all efforts to bring back 6.85 lakh migrants held up across the country due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, the chief minister said.Click here for full coronavirus coverageTaking to Twitter, Soren said, “The state government is bearing the fares of all the labourers and will continue to do so.“The state government is making all endeavours to bring back the 6.85 lakh stranded Jharkhand residents in (a) systematic manner by coordinating with the Railways and the central government as soon as possible.” The chief minister also urged the opposition leaders to urge the Union government to earmark more trains for operations in Jharkhand.Thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 11 for allowing plying of Shramik Special trains to bring back migrants, Soren had said, “But only 21-22 trains have so far come with only 50,000 to 55,000 people returning. Nearly seven lakh people from the state are residing in different parts of the country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/state-govt-bearing-transport-fares-of-migrant-workers-jharkhand-cm-hemant-soren/story-ZTCR5UARXCDOPApvTFrByJ.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Four Hazur Sahib returnees test positive for Covid-19 in Faridkot||Four persons, including three women, who returned from Takht Sri Huzur Sahib in Maharashtra, tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Faridkot district on Friday, taking the district’s tally to 52.Civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said the patients were admitted to the isolation ward of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, after they tested positive. Earlier, they were at a quarantine facility. Two of the patients are residents of Sandhwan village, while the other two belong to Chand Bhan village. Now, there are 45 active Covid-19 cases in the district.They were among 26 Huzur Sahib returnees whose fresh swab samples were sent to the laboratory after results of their previous samples came inconclusive. “So far, the district health department has collected a total of 3,044 samples, of which 2,612 tested negative, while reports of remaining samples are awaited,” Dr Kumar added. Moga’s four ASHA workers recover Four Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) workers, who tested positive for coronavirus on May 2, have recovered. They were discharged on Friday after they were tested negative twice in a row.They were discharged from the isolation ward of the Moga civil hospital Moga after staying in isolation for 14 days. Civil surgeon Dr Andesh Kang said they were tested negative twice according to reports received from the VRDL lab, now there are 50 active cases in district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-hazur-sahib-returnees-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-faridkot/story-dPJwKQdvls8YDe2f6CchWN.html
15-05-2020||Ranchi||Over 50,000 migrant workers brought back to Jharkhand through Shramik Special trains||Jharkhand State Transport Secretary K Ravi Kumar on Thursday informed that 44 ‘Shramik Special’ trains have brought back 50,028 migrant workers, who were stranded in different states due to lockdown, to their native place here. Click here for full coronavirus coverage“So far, 44 ‘Shramik Special’ trains have brought back 50,028 migrant workers to Jharkhand and 56 more such trains will be plying to bring back people of the state. 30,000 people have returned to Jharkhand by buses,” Kumar said.Since May 1, 2020, Indian Railways has carried 10 lakh “shramiks” in 800 trains to their home state, said Indian Railways today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/over-50-000-migrant-workers-brought-back-to-jharkhand-through-shramik-special-trains/story-N9IgbDi0hxJvQ2YDZt2hlI.html
15-05-2020||Ranchi||20 people test positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand; total rises to 197||Twenty people tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand on Thursday, taking the total number of cases to 197 in the state, an official bulletin issued here stated. There are 107 active cases in the state at present, while 87 people have recovered and three have died of the infection, it said. Details about the fresh cases were yet to be known. Health Secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said 64 migrants, who returned to the state in the last eight days, were found positive for Covid-19. Most of them came back from Hyderabad and Mumbai. Migrants who are coming back from places designated as red zones would initially need to stay at quarantine centres, he said. Only after medical tests, they will be sent for home-quarantine, he added. “There is no case of the infection in nine of the state’s 24 districts,” Kulkarni said, adding that the government is working to increase the state’s testing capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/20-people-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-jharkhand-total-rises-to-197/story-RbmITdtSyr1kqF1KR1NjjK.html
15-05-2020||Delhi||Lockdown hits street smartness stray animals, leads to spike in accidents||Focusing on the bigger picture often leads to the neglection of everyday, seemingly banal things, and something similar is happening with stray puppies who were born just before the lockdown was announced. These puppies, in search of food, run towards cars thinking that they are feeders, and often end up getting run over. “Lot of these babies were born just before the lockdown and started emerging a month ago. There’s hardly any traffic and the streets are like highways for them. They move freely without looking out and get run over by cars. Even the older dogs, who had knowledge of traffic and would sit on the sides, are now sitting in the middle of the roads. These dogs have lost their sense of traffic,” says, Amritika Phool, a Gurugram resident who is involved in animal welfare work. Another menace is the lack of understanding of animal behavior on the people’s part. “People who have sympathy, but don’t really understand their behavior, throw food from moving cars towards them. This leads them to think that any car that’s slowing down might have food for them. This is bringing dogs to the roads, leading to accidents,” adds Phool. Read: Feeder passes to feed strays come as a relief amid lockdownGurugram, with its leafy stretches near the Aravali Biodiversity Park, has a flourishing wildlife, which is on the periphery of danger. “Since the lockdown, I have seen injured puppies or piglets who have been run over. Their mothers are howling on the road. Sometimes, they run after the cars in anger because they don’t know any other way to express,” says Akanksha Pundir, an entrepreneur from Gurugram.The authorities have stepped up and are helping residents involved in feeding and taking care of the strays, “The Haryana Police has been incredible. I asked them if they will feed the dogs if I deposited the food with them and they agreed. I regularly check with them and leave food once every week. We also fixed a tub for water for cows near the Arjangarh border stretch,” shares Pundir.  Our Day 47 of #feedingstrays in #Delhi. And today let's show you some puppy love! Aren't they simply adorable? Please feed stray animals around you. Also leave a bowl of water. #AnimalsArePeopleToo #BeKind #OneKindAct #StayHome #lockdownindia pic.twitter.com/95fsjM3vH0The animals will switch to auto-reconditioning once the lockdown is over but that will still take time. One probable solution is controlling their population. “The government has to get actively involved in sterilization and do this before the mating cycle. At an individual capacity, sterilisation costs a bomb and not every one of us can afford it,” says Phool.Read: Mohit Chauhan: Have to take care of animals around usDos and Don’ts•Step out of the car, get as far away from the road as possible and then feed them.•Lay down a newspaper before putting the food out for them otherwise they will end up consuming the muck which could make them sick.•Be mindful of stray animals as you would be of human beings on the roads.•Take responsibility of the dogs in your locality.•Don’t throw food out of moving cars.•Don’t speed. An empty road does not mean that you flout all rules.•Call any animal NGO, authority or the police if you see an animal in distress.Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htlifeandstyle for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/lockdown-hits-street-smartness-stray-animals-leads-to-spike-in-accidents/story-McFNK5deuQDHACoIDoiwCN.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Activists, locals oppose Kinnaur’s Kashang Hydro Power Project||Activists and locals in Kinnaur have asked the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) to not extend environment clearance to the integrated Kashang Hydro Project. Around 1,000 environmental activists from across the world and local residents have written to the ministry raising concern over the ecological damage the will be caused due to the project.They alleged that on April 30 this year, a portion of a mountain near the project caved in destroying apple orchards and killing one Nepali migrant worker in Pangi village.“This area in the high Himalayas, falling in the Satluj Valley, is known for its geological and ecological vulnerability, and is also the site of Stage 1 of the 243 MW-Integrated Kashang Hydropower Project, which is already operational,” said a Sushil Sagar Negi, a local and president of Paryavaran Sanrakshan Sangharsh Smiti. “Stage II, III and IV of the project will come up on the same mountain, which will spell doom for our lives, livelihoods and biodiversity,” he said. The MoEFCC had granted an Environment Clearance to the four-stage project back in April 2010 with the condition of 10-year validity.Only stage I of the project has been completed within the deadline by the Himachal Pradesh Hydropower Corporation Limited (HPPCL), which now is seeking an extension.The Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC) of the ministry is due to discuss the matter today.Manshi Asher, convener of Himadhara Environment Collective, said that their petition to the Union ministry raises some important points to buttress their demand.The petition claims that underground blasting and tunnelling for hydropower projects disturb the local geology and soil erosion triggering slope failures and exacerbating landslides in an area, which is already disaster prone. It alleges that lack of safety compliance and non-accountability by HPPCL means that locals have to bear the cost of the damages to fields, farms, forests and human lives.“The project is a threat to the local ecology, floral and faunal biodiversity as it falls in the Lippa Asrang Wildlife Sanctuary, home to the Himalayan Brown Bear and endangered Snow leopard. The eco-sensitive zone is also rich in floral biodiversity. However, the environment impact assessment report submitted a decade ago does not mention this,” villagers alleged in the petition.They also alleged that it also poses a threat to tribal livelihoods and land-based economy and more than 1,000 families, who depend on horticulture and cultivation of cash crops such as peas, potatoes and kidney beans and forest produce like Chilgoza pines and kala jeera.The submission also alleges violation of the Forest Rights Act and Tribal Laws. The individual and community rights of Lippa village are yet to be settled despite an NGT order. They said that the project is also financially non-viable due costs overruns in the first phase.“A CAG report has slammed the HPPCL for initiating work without approval from the gram sabha and increasing the financial risk to the project,” said the petition.It submits that the Kashang Project has almost no economic benefits and humongous ecological, livelihood and social costs.“Allowing the project is an invitation to more disasters in the fragile Himalayas, already bearing the load of the climate crisis,” it concluded.Some of the prominent signatories, include Medha Patkar, Prafulla Samantara, Himanshu Thakkar, Ashish Kothari and Roma Malik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/activists-locals-oppose-kinnaur-s-kashang-hydro-power-project/story-P838PSeWTkpwL2X64nDsiK.html
15-05-2020||Delhi||Low-intensity earthquake hits Delhi, fourth in more than a month||A 2.2-magnitude earthquake hit national capital Delhi, news agency PTI reported quoting officials from National Centre for Seismology. The epicentre was in Pitampura in North-West Delhi, PTI reported.This comes nearly a week after an earthquake of 3.4 magnitude struck near Sonia Vihar in North-East Delhi. Tremors were felt in parts of the national capital and the adjoining areas after the earthquake.No casualty or loss of property was reported. The quake occurred at a depth of five kilometres.This was the third earthquake in the national capital amid the nationwide coronavirus lockdown. Delhi witnessed two back-to-back incidents of low-intensity earthquakes in April with same location and nearby areas as the epicentre.On April 12, a moderate intensity quake of magnitude 3.5 hit the national capital at a depth of 8 km. The very next day, another low-intensity earthquake of magnitude 2.7 shook parts of Delhi. The earthquake, with its epicentre near Wazirpur in northeast Delhi, occurred at 1.26 pm at a shallow depth of 5 km, said JL Gautam, Head (Operations) at NCS, an institute under the Ministry of Earth Sciences.Of the four seismic zones in the country - Zone II, III, IV, V - Delhi falls under ‘Zone IV’. “Of these, Zone V is seismically the most active region, while zone II is the least,” says a release on country’s seismic zones by the Ministry of Earth Science.The national capital is vulnerable to earthquakes but it is rare for it to be the epicentre of a quake. Delhi, however, experiences tremors when a quake hits regions as far as central Asia or the Himalayan ranges, known to be a high-seismic zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/low-intensity-earthquake-hits-pitampura-in-delhi-fourth-in-more-than-a-month/story-HOAM9FcGVDxOTgYh1BdMCI.html
15-05-2020||Lucknow||Migrant woman delivers baby at Agra railway station||A pregnant migrant woman travelling in Shramik special train delivered a baby girl in the waiting room of Agra fort railway station on Thursday. She was attended by railway doctor and staff at the station premises and was later admitted to Sarojini Naidu medical college. Public relation officer (PRO), NCR, Agra SK Srivastav said, “We got a message that a pregnant woman Maya Devi, travelling to village Birari, Ikdil in Etawah, with her husband Anand Kumar in the train number 09169 Shramik special train has serious labor pain.” After that, the railway doctor Dr Bhadan and his team delivered the baby girl in the waiting room of the Agra fort railway station premises. Both mother and child are safe and admitted to SNMC for further care. The railway officials also presented food items to the woman, Srivastav said.Agra fort railway protection force (RPF) inspector Shri Yadav and railway official Ghanshyam Meena and other staff were present and assisted the family.Notably, on May 8, a woman from Chhapra district of Bihar delivered a baby on Shramik special train, at Agra fort. YOGESH DUBEY||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/migrant-woman-delivers-baby-at-agra-railway-station/story-9pKecrYyczAAfj88o2s24L.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Four more test positive in HP, Covid-19 tally touches 75||Three people tested positive for the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Thursday, and one person tested positive for the infection on Friday, taking the state’s tally to 75.Two cases were reported from Bilaspur, one from Hamirpur and one from Una. The first patient from Bilaspur is a 39-year-old man, who originally hails from Bhoranj sub-division of Hamirpur. He returned from Ahmadabad and was quarantined in an institutional facility at the state’s border.The second patient is 43-year-old man from Delhi. He is the primary contact of Covid-19 positive driver who is undergoing treatment at Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College, Nerchowk in Mandi. He was quarantined in an institutional facility in Naina Devi.The patient from Hamirpur is a 55-year-old man of Tauni Devi, Hamirpur. He is a close relative and primary contact of a Covid-19 patient from Bajrol village of Sujanpur sub-division.The 33-year-old man from Una, a resident of Haroli sub-divisions of the district, returned from Mumbai to Mohali and then to Una. He was quarantined at Palakvah quarantine centre at state’s border, Una deputy commissioner Sandeep Kumar said on Friday.The patient has been shifted to Covid-care centre at Haroli. His contacts are being traced.34 ACTIVE CASESThe active cases in the state have gone up to 33.Himachal Pradesh has witnessed a spurt in coronavirus cases since May 4, with 35 people testing positive.One person has died due to the contagion. So far, the state has recorded a total of 75 cases, including two fatalities.So far, thirty-five people have recovered in the state.Kangra and Una are the worst-hit districts with 18 cases each, followed by Chamba with 12 cases.Nine cases have been reported in Solan, seven in Hamirpur, four each in Sirmaur and Bilaspur and three in Mandi.Till date, 14,300 people have been tested for Covid-19 in the state. More than 18,000 are under active surveillance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-more-test-positive-in-hp-covid-19-tally-touches-74/story-HsTt9BQjFk66vA4CjETg4M.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Court dismisses bail application of building owner co-accused in Chandigarh PG fire tragedy case||A district court on Thursday dismissed the bail application of Gaurav Aneja, the owner of the illegal paying guest facility in Sector 32 where three girls were killed and two were injured after a fire had broken out.The tragedy struck on February 23. Aneja had rented the place out to Nitish Bansal, who in alliance with Nitish Popli, was running a PG since August 2018 without registering it with the UT estate office.Bansal, Popli and Aneja were booked under Sections 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/court-dismisses-bail-application-of-building-owner-co-accused-in-chandigarh-pg-fire-tragedy-case/story-AIwpAUKCOQQw4ijtfbpFcP.html
15-05-2020||City||Three more patients recover from coronavirus in Mohali||Three more patients were discharged on Thursday after they recovered from Covid 19, bringing down the number of active cases in the district to 42.Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said of the three, two men aged 47 and 60 of Jawaharpur village were discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur, and one aged 30 of Mullanpur was discharged from the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh.There are 105 positive cases and 60 recoveries in the district as of now. On the other hand, no fresh case was reported on Thursday.Patients from Jawaharpur will not be sent home directly, but will be kept at a quarantine facility at Nirankari Bhawan in Dera Bassi for another 14 days as a precautionary measure. The Mullanpur patient, however, has been sent home and directed to self-quarantine. Teams from the health department will continuously monitor his health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-more-patients-recover-from-coronavirus-in-mohali/story-smMFOpRqKwDPwHeABC8hwL.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh residents rue shifting of wholesale mandi from Sector 26 to ISBT-17||After the wholesale vegetable and fruit market was shifted from Sector 26 to the Inter State Bus Terminal (ISBT) in Sector 17, many residents have complained that the mandi has become a source of noise pollution and garbage accumulation.As per Subhash Narang, president of the Sector 22-B market opposite to ISBT-17, in just a couple of days, the new location has become a nuisance. “Though most of the shops are closed, the parking of our market is already full with the carts of the vendors. These are also lined up outside affecting the flow of traffic.” He added that garbage could be seen strewn all across ISBT premises on Thursday.NOISE WOES HIT ADJOINING SECTORSOrganizing secretary of the Sector 21 RWA Sandeep Bhalla said, “From 5am onwards, the mandi comes alive. Police vehicles use loudspeakers when patrolling the area and the noise affects the sleep cycles of many residents.”Bhalla added that some vendors came to the sector without necessary passes. “Two entry points to Sector 21 are blocked but still vendors manage to come through. They don’t possess necessary passes and most of them don’t even wear masks properly.”The Federation of Sector Welfare Associations of Chandigarh (FOSWAC) has sent a letter regarding this to the UT administration and the police and said they will meet the officials on Monday after public dealing resumes in government offices.RESIDENTS FEEL UNSAFEGeneral secretary of the Sector 18 RWA Kamaljit Singh Panchii said many residents were fearful of being so close to a mandi where hundreds of vendors came daily. “On the first day, a tea seller was taken away for displaying flu-like symptoms. He was already inside the mandi and wasn’t even thermally screened. The administration needs to establish only one entry and exit point so that residents can stay assured that suspected Covid patients are not allowed to enter the mandi.” He added that it would be best if the mandi was shifted to the Sector 39 grain market site as it is at the periphery of the city and better suited.Meanwhile, officials said the mandi had been shifted owing to a number of positive cases coming up in Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26. “The shift is temporary and the premises are sanitized daily.” UT adviser Manoj Parida has also issued an order under which the traders will have to pay for any damage to the infrastructure of ISBT including dumping of garbage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-residents-rue-shifting-of-wholesale-mandi-from-sector-26-to-isbt-17/story-yf9WP8Kv6JGKfXGAqU7h0M.html
15-05-2020||Education||Patna University set to start copy evaluation of final year exam after May 17||In a relief to thousands of students aspiring to pursue PG courses, Patna University (PU) on Tuesday decided to initiate evaluation of answer sheets of final year’s examinations, conducted before lockdown, after May 17. Registrar of PU, Manoj Mishra said that evaluation process of answersheets would begin immediately after the end of third phase of lockdown, May 17. “The university will go for centralised copy evaluation following proper social distancing and precautionary measures directed to contain spread of coronavirus,” said Mishra. He added that pending exams would likely be conducted in June to maintain university’s academic calendar. Keeping in view the impact of delayed results, PU vice-chancellor H N Prasad at a meeting on Tuesday gave nod to dispose of the pending works at the university levels, which include admission, examination, evaluation and other academic related issues. Principals of the constituent colleges, dean and faculties also attended the meeting.The examination of third year students of BA, B.Com and B.Sc of PU was held from February 27 to March 14. However, examination for vocational courses and other traditional courses, which was scheduled between March and May, was postponed owing to coronavirus lockdown.Elaborating solution for online admission amid pending exam results, N K Jha, dean of students’ welfare, said, “The students seeking admission in PG courses with pending results will be given fair opportunity to apply in ongoing admission process.” According to Jha, the admission schedule can be revised depending on announcement of results, as admissions in MA, M.Com and M.Sc are taken on the basis of marks obtained by the applicants in the previous examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/patna-university-set-to-start-copy-evaluation-of-final-year-exam-after-may-17/story-j7IXbhtI9EsGsHwP7nPd7M.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Ex-MP and Parkash Singh Badal’s younger brother Gurdas Badal dies at 90||Former parliamentarian Gurdas Singh Badal died at the age of 90 late on Thursday night, his son and Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal said. Gurdas Badal had been on life support system for the past few days at a hospital in Mohali, Manpreet said in a Twitter post on Friday morning.He was suffering from age-related ailments, according to family sources. It is with great sorrow that I inform about the demise of my father S.Gurdas Singh Badal. He passed away last night at Fortis Hospital, Mohali.He was 90. His health had started deteriorating after my mother’s death in March, & he was on life support system for past few days.The younger brother of former Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, Gurdas, aka, Daas Ji, was elected to fifth Lok Sabha from the erstwhile Fazilka Lok Sabha seat in 1971 as an Akali Dal member. Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh has condoled the death of Gurdas Badal. Deeply saddened to learn of the passing away of S. Gurdas Singh Badal. Join my colleague Manpreet Badal and the family in this moment of grief. May the Almighty grant liberation to the departed soul. Rest in peace! pic.twitter.com/xmC11EOv9zHis last rites will be performed at his ancestral village Badal in Muktsar district at 1 pm on Friday, a close aide of Manpreet said. Manpreet urged his supporters to refrain from attending the funeral due to the ongoing pandemic outbreak.“Keeping in view the current pandemic, we will like to request all friends and well wishers to refrain from attending the funeral ceremony which will be held in our ancestral village,” he wrote in a Twitter post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ex-mp-and-parkash-singh-badal-s-younger-brother-gurdas-badal-dies-at-90/story-3AlEbVOy8Oca11BJx5itPO.html
15-05-2020||City||Video of Ludhiana councillor’s husband ‘thrashing’ man in front of cops surfaces||The husband of the councillor of ward 21 in Ludhiana allegedly thrashed a man in the presence of police in Moti Nagar area on Wednesday night. A video of the incident went viral on social networking sites, following which the police recorded the statements of the victim and the accused for further action.Deepak Uppal, husband of Congress councillor from ward number 21, Kitty Uppal, was seen in the video beating the man, Sundar, with sticks. Uppal said he came to know that Sundar, claiming himself to be his brother, was taking around 100 labourers to Khanna in 10 vehicles parked near the spot without any permission or social distancing measure. “When my friend Subash Kumar and I objected, and asked to produce a permit, Sundar, who was inebriated at that point, opened attack on me,” Uppal said, adding that he thrashed him in self-defense and handed him over to the police. Sundar, however, alleged that Uppal had thrashed him for no reason and the police personnel standing nearby just stayed mute spectators.Moti Nagar station house officer inspector Varunjit Singh said, “Sundar was taking labourers in vehicles without permission. He assaulted Uppal and his friend Subhash, while accusing Uppal of thrashing him. We have recorded their statements and will take appropriate action after investigation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/video-of-ludhiana-councillor-s-husband-thrashing-man-in-front-of-cops-surfaces/story-RDIXd6ad1ACFBfH9vZOutL.html
15-05-2020||City||Migrants in Ludhiana’s Jamalpur stage protest, ask authorities to send them home||Several migrants converged on a road at Vishwakarma Colony near Jamalpur in Ludhiana on Thursday, demanding to be sent back to their home state Bihar. Police had to use mild force to disperse the protesters. The migrants alleged that they were protesting peacefully but the police lathicharged them, leaving a few injured. The labourers said that they are unemployed due to the lockdown and it was getting difficult for them to arrange food for their families.Arun Kumar, a protester, said that they hail from Katihar in Bihar and want to go home. “We were protesting peacefully but police used force on his. I have suffered foot injury in the incident,” he said. Inspector Varunjit Singh, Moti Nagar station house officer, refuted the allegations of lathicharge. He added that a man was instigating the labourers to stage protest. The police will take action against the accused, the SHO said.On Wednesday too, hundreds of migrants from different areas staged a protest outside the mini-secretariat demanding to be sent back home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrants-in-ludhiana-s-jamalpur-stage-protest-ask-authorities-to-send-them-home/story-rCZlKKIR8FFjb2fUrlLnnN.html
15-05-2020||City||18 more RPF men test positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana||As many as 18 more railway protection force (RPF) jawans tested positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana on Thursday, taking the total number of infected personnel to 34.According to civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga 55 reports were received on Thursday evening, of which 17 were found positive while 28 were negative. As many as 10 reports were inconclusive and will be sent again, said Dr Bagga. One had tested positive in the morning.The RPF personnel had come from Delhi on May 7 for crowd control at the Ludhiana railway station. After two of them tested positive, the samples of others too were taken.21 CASES REPORTED IN A DAYThe civil surgeon said that a total of 21 cases were reported on Thursday, of which three will be counted in Ludhiana. The rest of the patients aren’t residents of Ludhiana so they won’t be counted in the district’s tally. Among the new cases are a 71-year-old man of Lalto Kalan village, a 50-year-old woman of Bhai Himmat Singh Nagar near Dugri and a 37-year-old resident of Ambedkar Nagar.While the 50- year- old woman is the wife of tyre company employee, the 37-year-old man is also employee of Hindustan Tyres of Focal Point. As many as five employees of the cycle tyre manufacturing unit were tested positive on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/18-more-rpf-men-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-ludhiana/story-XAjMyvZwW9GF994NNv9xII.html
15-05-2020||Delhi||Online exams really an option? DU students say nay||Limited broadband access, the existing digital divide and a dearth of laptops and computers are among the major concerns being raised by the students of Delhi University (DU), who are vehemently opposing the idea of online examinations. Some students have been vocal about their concerns towards the possibility of exams being conducted on an online platform or open-book examination, and others feel that the environment of lockdown is too stressful to study. “Bachhon ke paas laptops hi nahi hai. Many of my friends aren’t that technologically advanced to even know how to operate computers and laptops. Visually impaired students will have problems if they are not assisted by helpers as they are used to being helped by technicians in computer labs in colleges. This is the ground reality of the campus,” says Sanjay Kataria, a final year masters student of DU. Students claim that since online classes weren’t much of a success, online exams seem a far cry. “My friends from Jammu and Kashmir have suffered because of the poor internet conditions there. How can we even think of online exams when we are not even able to attend online classes because of the present internet connectivity problems all over India,” asks Amal K Simon, a final year graduation student of Ramjas College. Lacking clarity about how and where the online exams will be conducted, final year students worry about getting their degrees much later, and therefore expect a delay in getting placements, if any available due to the slow down in the economy. “The authorities have to develop a special software where students can’t do any malpractices... But then also, the question of availability of internet for everyone remains! Online exams is not an option,” says Sneha Sarah Shaji, a final year student of Hindu College. Follow @htdelhi for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/online-exams-really-an-option-du-students-say-nay/story-oOXRymQldqKTvivWztIauM.html
15-05-2020||City||Ludhiana industry hails state’s decision to allow operations in mix land use areas||The micro and small industry hailed the decision of the state government to allow industrial operations in mix land use and non-designated areas. Reeling under losses, the industry has been demanding permission to operate in mix land use areas for over two weeks. Different industrial organisations, including Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (CICU), Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation and Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers Association (JNSSMA), had even warned the state government of agitation if it failed to allow industrial activity in mix land use areas by May 17.The industry rued that the large industry allowed to operate in designated areas would not be able to survive as it was dependent on micro and small industry. The matter was also raised by congress MLAs Surinder Dawar and Sanjay Talwar in a meet held with the additional chief secretary, industries and commerce, Vini Mahajan on Thursday. President of JNSSMA, Jaswinder Singh Thukral, and president of FICO, Gurmeet Singh Kular, said the decision was welcomed as around 50,000 micro and small units (mostly cycle parts, tools and hosiery) were situated in mix land use and non-designated areas of the city.Thukral said, “I had also raised the issue in the meet held with Vini Mahajan at Bachat Bhawan on Thursday as the industry is reeling under losses even when they can operate by complying with all the guidelines on the basis of which the medium and large industry has been allowed to operate in designated areas.”The industrialists rued that apart from losses, they have also been losing their labour, which was moving back to their home states in absence of work.Representing hosiery industry, president of Knitwear and Textile Club, Vinod Thapar, and president of Bajwa Nagar Hosiery Association, Darshan Dawar, said the labour had started movement and if the labour in the hosiery industry had moved out, it would have been a major blow to the industry.“The hosiery industry has already suffered a loss of over Rs 1,000 crore due to the lockdown and the decision by the state government to allow operations in mix land use areas has provided a much needed relief,” said Thapar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-industry-hails-state-s-decision-to-allow-operations-in-mix-land-use-areas/story-Y23qDEEEtrqi8Aij2WZ5RL.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Two Chandigarh residents held for not wearing face mask||Two men from Bapu Dham Colony (BDC) in Sector 26 were arrested for stepping out of their house without wearing a face mask on Thursday.Police said the duo, Arvind Kumar and Deepak, was found roaming around at a market without wearing face masks. They were booked under Sections 188 (disobedience of order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code. They were later released on bail.A major Covid-19 hotspot in Chandigarh, Bapu Dham Colony has reported 122 cases so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-chandigarh-residents-held-for-not-wearing-face-mask/story-1FsSFDJdaQ04U2HGwGnMPO.html
15-05-2020||City||CII, CICU donate 5 ventilators to admn in Ludhiana||The members of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) donated five ventilators to the district administration in presence of additional chief secretary, industries and commerce, Vini Mahajan, who conducted a meeting with the industrialists, district administration and legislators on Thursday.Punjab CII chairman Rahul Ahuja and CICU president Upkar Singh Ahuja said they had established a Covid-19 relief fund and collected donations worth Rs 1.5 crore. “A large part of this fund has been donated to police department, district administration, Red Cross Society and various hospitals, including CMC Ludhiana, for various relief and rehabilitation measures. Apart from this, members have been directly contributing to the cause by distributing food packets and running community kitchens serving hundreds on a daily basis,” said Ahuja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cii-cicu-donate-5-ventilators-to-admn-in-ludhiana/story-AWhCgP0VOfuhDFexhFnTBN.html
15-05-2020||City||30-year-old Ludhiana man kills mother after spat over water wastage||A 30-year-old man from Buyani village in Doraha allegedly murdered his elderly mother on Thursday after a verbal spat over wastage of water.The accused, Daljit Singh, is on the run.Based on the statement of Ram Singh, husband of the victim, Parkash Kaur, 70, the Doraha police lodged an FIR.Ram Singh stated that his wife and son used to get into arguments over petty issues regularly. He said on Thursday morning, Kaur was cleaning wheat in the veranda of their house, while Daljit Singh was about to take bath and they indulged in a spat over wastage of water.He said in a fit of rage, his son hit his wife with a wooden log, leading to her death.The complainant said that Daljit Singh fled the spot after the incident. Inspector Davinder Singh, station house officer at Doraha police station, said an FIR under Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code had been registered against Daljit Singh and hunt was on for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/30-year-old-ludhiana-man-kills-mother-after-spat-over-water-wastage/story-EczyUVfOzXozj4qmaq5tjJ.html
15-05-2020||City||Three arrested for murder of 15-year-old boy in Kharar||The police on Thursday arrested three persons for allegedly murdering a 15-year-old boy following a clash between two families in Khanpur village in Kharar.The accused have been identified as Sukhwinder Singh, alias Sukha, Lakwinder Singh, alias Lucky, and Gurpreet Singh, alias Vicky, of Khanpur in Kharar. The fourth accused named in the FIR, Manpreet Singh, alias Ladi, is at large. The police have yet to identify other unknown residents of Khanpur involved in the crime.The victim, a student of Class 10, was living in Channalo village in Kurali with his mother after she had separated from her husband. Police said two cousin sisters of the victim had eloped with two boys of their neighbourhood. When the girls returned home, the victim and other relatives went to the boys’ house to confront them on May 8. Arguments snowballed into a clash, following which the victim’s relatives fled, but he was caught, beaten up, and stabbed by Sukhwinder with a sharp-edged weapon, station house officer of Kharar (city) police station said.The victim was taken to the Kurali civil hospital and later referred to the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, where he died during treatment on May 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-arrested-for-murder-of-15-year-old-boy-in-kharar/story-CVYq0IU4yDkZg7GgCCqBeO.html
15-05-2020||City||Journey of migrants from Maharashtra not easy amid lockdown||On Wednesday morning, three days after he had left from Goregaon, Lakshmi Morya reached Asaipur in Uttar Pradesh (UP) after having spent the last of his savings — ₹3,000 — to get a place on a truck crowded with migrant labourers and daily wagers. “It was a horrible journey,” said Morya, recalling how one of the 50-odd passengers fell off the truck and injured himself. These travellers are among the thousands of migrant workers who are leaving the city out of desperation, after the nationwide lockdown was imposed in March to contain the spread of Covid-19.There are an estimated 6 lakh migrant workers in Maharashtra who have been given food and shelter in relief camps set up by the state government since March. For those who survive on daily wages and worked in cities like Mumbai, Thane, Pune, Nagpur, Nashik and Kolhapur, the lockdown has meant their sources of earning have dried up. During the lockdown, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region has witnessed an unprecedented reverse migration of labour. “With lockdown, there was no business or earning. There was no ration-paani to live by. At least in my village, I wouldn’t have to worry about the next meal,” said Mahfooz Husain, who worked as an autorickshaw driver in Mumbai and made a 60-hour journey to UP on Monday afternoon. He is now quarantined on the borders of his home in Tapni village and is not sure if he will return to Mumbai once the lockdown eases.“The hardship with which people have left is disturbing. It could also mean that people will not want to return for a long time,” said Tahir Momin, a power loom owner and former legislator. Momin said in Bhiwandi, one of India’s largest textile hubs, approximately 70% of its labour force had left the state during the lockdown. Despite some transport being arranged to take migrants back to home states, many feel they cannot afford to wait as long as it takes to avail the special train and bus services. “The entire stretch of the western express highway along Mira-Bhayander road is lined with migrant workers, most on foot, going home to UP, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Bihar. They are carrying whatever little they have and walking with their families,” said Shailesh Mishra, a social worker who has been distributing food and water to labourers in the area.On Thursday morning, hundreds of migrant labourers gathered on the highway in Kolhapur district and as the crowd swelled, police had to be deployed. Superintendent of police Abhinav Deshmukh said those who had gathered were not aggressive and were mostly labourers who had applied for seats on the Shramik Special trains that are returning migrants to their home states. “They were impatient because they were not allowed to travel but others, who were with them, had got to do so. So they took to the streets to demand [transportation],” said Deshmukh.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has approved ₹54.75 crore from his relief fund for travel arrangements to take migrant labourers to their home states and bring back those from Maharashtra who are currently stranded elsewhere. Shramik Special trains are plying from different cities in Maharashtra and Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has arranged buses that take migrant labourers to state borders, free of charge. “We have so far taken 79,000 migrants up to our borders with Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Telangana, and Karnataka,” said MSRTC vice-chairman and managing director Shekhar Channe.However, these options involve long waits. Autorickshaw driver Vijay Yadav, who wants to return to Jaunpur in UP, is waiting to hear back about his application for a seat on a Shramik Special train. “It’s been 15 days since I filled my form. I have no money, no food,” said Yadav. For those who can afford to pay between ₹3,000 and ₹6,000, travel by truck seems the quickest option. Sunil Yadav, from the non-governmental organisation Pani Haq Samiti in Mumbai, said he sees two trucks filled with workers leave from Goregaon every day.Sandeep Kumar, who has worked as a carpenter in Mumbai since 2015 and lived in Ghatkopar, said he and six others, walked from Ghatkopar to Thane from where they got on autorickshaws to Bhiwandi. At Bhiwandi, they were able to get passage on a truck, paying ₹3,000 per head. The journey to Hariya in UP took three days and in this time, Kumar ate twice. “We saw a lot and struggled a lot even to reach back to our homes,” said Kumar, who is nevertheless relieved to be home. “I do not think I will return anytime soon to Mumbai. I will work in Hariya,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/journey-of-migrants-from-maharashtra-not-easy-amid-lockdown/story-9fzl0lD4cpI6kQHzU4KefI.html
15-05-2020||City||Punjab Agricultural University donates ₹73 lakh to CM’s Covid-19 relief fund||In a bid the help the needy amid the Covid-19 outbreak, the vice-chancellor of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) and Padma Shri awardee, BS Dhillon, presented a cheque of Rs 72.56 lakh to the state food and civil supply minister, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, at Chandigarh, for the chief minister’s Covid-19 relief fund.The vice-chancellor had earlier donated his one month’s salary for the cause, while the senior university officials contributed one-fourth of their monthly salaries and the other varsity staffers donated one-day salaries. Meanwhile, PAU employees have been doing their bit by providing groceries, food, medicines and clothes to the migrant labourers.Dhillon said the state required major funding to fight the pandemic and urged people from all walks of life to come forward for help. “PAU had played a vital role in ushering green revolution, thereby making the country food secure,” said Dhillon.Ashu said PAU’s contribution towards the fund will go a long way in fighting the crisis. KAP Sinha, principal secretary of food and civil supply department, Anandita Mishra, director of food and civil supply department, SK Airi, director of the state’s agriculture department and Rajinder Singh Sidhu, PAU Registrar, were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-agricultural-university-donates-73-lakh-to-cm-s-covid-19-relief-fund/story-6V0Xk4lFjN8vjgsxkvltRP.html
15-05-2020||City||ABDUCTION CASE: Ex-DGP Saini to be quizzed on May 17||Former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini will be questioned by the special investigation team (SIT) on Sunday in the abduction case registered against him in connection with the disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani, a Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation (CITCO) employee, in 1991.“We have summoned the ex-DGP on Sunday,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Mohali, adding that a notice has been issued to Saini in this regard.The time for the questioning would be conveyed to Saini on Sunday, officials said.Saini was granted anticipatory bail in the case by a Mohali court on May 11 with directions to join investigations within seven days. He had appeared at the Mataur police station on Wednesday and surrendered his passport as per court directions.The three-member SIT -- comprising Mohali superintendent of police (SP-investigation) Harmandeep Singh Hans, deputy superintendent of police (DSP-investigation) Bikramjit Singh Brar and Rajiv Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Mataur -- is also in process of issuing notices to the witnesses in the case.Multani was allegedly picked up by two officers after a terrorist attack on Saini, then SSP, Chandigarh, in which four policemen in his security posse were killed. The police later claimed that Multani had escaped from the custody of Qadian police.A case was registered under Sections 364 (kidnapping or abduction in order to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), 344 (wrongful confinement), 330 (voluntarily causing hurt to exhort confession) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) in Mohali on May 6 on the basis of a complaint filed by Multani’s brother Palwinder Singh Multani.Former DSP Baldev Singh Saini, inspector Satvir Singh, sub-inspectors Har Sahai Sharma, Jagir Singh and Anoop Singh and ASI Kuldip Singh were also named in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/abduction-case-ex-dgp-saini-to-be-quizzed-on-may-17/story-pTaSs5KnklrZNBeFa3opJO.html
15-05-2020||City||Sensitise people of your areas about coronavirus, Himachal CM tells BJP MLAs||Himachal Pradesh (HP) chief minister (CM) Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday urged BJP legislators of the state to prepare a list of people from their respective constituencies stranded in other states and sensitise their families about the social distancing norms and precautionary measures to be taken after they return home.The CM, who was interacting with the party legislators through video-conferencing, said over one lakh Himachalis have already reached their home state and 60,000 more are expected to come back in the next few days.He said it was the responsibility of his government to ensure safety of the Himachalis stranded in various parts of the country, but at the same time, they are also ensuring that the returnees do not carry any infection that may harm others.‘COORDINATE WITH PRADHANS’He said the MLAs must keep a close watch on the entry of all such people and persuade them to remain in quarantine. The CM also told the MLAs to coordinate with panchayat pradhans and other party functionaries of the area to make arrangements for quarantine of the returnees.CM Thakur also said that the coronavirus lockdown has adversely affected the economy of the country as well as the hill state. “Now, steps must be taken at local level to take up developmental works and start economic activities,” he said, adding that the state would be immensely benefitted by Rs 20 lakh crore package announced by the Centre as almost 90% of the state’s industry falls under the micro, small and medium enterprises category.Highlighting his government’s measures taken up for benefit of the working class, the CM said, “The government had also decided to enhance the upper income ceiling for the selection of below poverty line beneficiaries to Rs 45,000. This will increase the number of households under the National Food Security Act by 1.5 lakh, thereby, making them eligible for subsidised ration.State BJP president Rajiv Bindal lauded the efforts of the state government to combat the pandemic and said, “It was due to the efforts of the government that Himachal Pradesh is among the least affected states.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sensitise-people-of-your-areas-about-coronavirus-himachal-cm-tells-bjp-mlas/story-pNnKQRp5YFvbUeANKwMbcL.html
15-05-2020||City||Liquor vends to open in Ludhiana from May 15; no home delivery||A week after the state government allowed sale of liquor, contractors in Ludhiana district have decided to open liquor vends from Friday onwards.Ruing losses, the contractors were adamant on keeping their vends closed till Thursday morning stating that the state government had failed to provide any major relief to the sector.However, a group of contractors conducted a meeting with the deputy excise and taxation commissioner Pawan Garg on Thursday and a meeting between contractors and a group of ministers, including Manpreet Singh Badal (finance), Vijay Inder Singla (education) and Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria (housing and urban development), has been scheduled for Friday. By Thursday evening, several wine shops had opened in the district. Neeraj Kapoor, a liquor contractor, said, “The contractors have decided to open the vends for now, as the government has assured to look into their grievances.”Leading a group of contractors in the district, Varinder Sharma said only over-the-counter sales would be done and there will be no home delivery.There are around 750 vends in the district, including those in Khanna, Samrala and Jagraon. The state government earns an annual revenue of around ₹1,100 crore from liquor vends, which comes to over ₹3 crore on a daily basis. The government had allowed the contractors to open the vends on May 6, but they had been demanding compensation for the losses incurred in the last financial year due to imposition of curfew on March 23 and review of excise policy 2020-2021 including withdrawal of quota condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/liquor-vends-to-open-in-ludhiana-no-home-delivery/story-NT7wVrHCNrNk5pzm0dKlFM.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Govt advises farmers on non-basmati varieties||On the recommendations of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), the Punjab agriculture department has advised the farmers to go for cultivation of PR-128 & PR-129 varieties of non-basmati (parmal) due to unique features of early maturity, being less water intensive and for better paddy straw management without resorting to burning.In a statement, financial commissioner, development, Viswajeet Khanna said that both these new varieties have already got approval from representatives of the milling industry, a vital pre-requisite for release of a rice variety to the farmers of the state.Khanna said that milling trials were extensively conducted in 2019 and 2020. “Both these latest varieties are expected to replace long duration, higher water requiring varieties of rice cultivated by some farmers in districts of Bathinda, Mansa, Sangrur, Barnala, Moga and Ludhiana. Several adaptive trials have been conducted in these districts and have indicated very good prospects,” he added.He also mentioned that these advanced varieties meet the total rice recovery (out-turn ratio) of raw rice fixed at 67% under the ‘Custom Milling Policy’ fixed by the Government of India and have acceptable levels comparable to other varieties for various quality parameters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-advises-farmers-on-non-basmati-varieties/story-T0Yec1eDOkrRhd4GWrdpOK.html
15-05-2020||City||Ludhiana MC’s suvidha kendras get lukewarm response on Day 1||The Ludhiana municipal corporation’s suvidha kendras (special counters) received a lukewarm response on the first day of operation as only 351 residents filed their property tax returns on Thursday.The residents can avail 10% rebate on payment of property tax, under the one-time settlement policy. The four zonal suvidha kendras collected a revenue of around Rs 5.65 lakh. The MC also received water-sewer charges for 11 establishments and earned revenue of over Rs 35,000.Over 1 lakh property owners have failed to submit the property tax for previous years starting from 2013-14. The last date to avail 10% rebate on payment of property tax returns for the previous years can be availed by May 31. Tax can also be paid online at http://mcludhiana.gov.in/.Superintendent, property tax, Vivek Verma, said it was the first day and they were expecting better response in the coming days.The MC suvidha kendras would remain open from 9am to 1.30pm on all weekdays, he said.He said on Thursday, there was one counter each for submitting property tax and water-sewer charges, but from Friday there would be two counters for payment of property tax and one for submitting water sewer charges.Staff deputed to maintain social-distancingMC has deputed two staffers outside the kendras with hand sanitisers so that the visitors can maintain social-distancing. The residents are not allowed to enter the kendra in one go to avoid crowding. Also, residents are not allowed to enter the kendras without masks. The residents can, however, use handkerchiefs in case they don’t have masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-s-suvidha-kendras-get-lukewarm-response-on-day-1/story-wQywJeJ2mfbO2k1OS6KMCM.html
15-05-2020||Mumbai||‘Made to pay entire amount for 14-day quarantine period at hotels’, say Vande Bharat flyers||Several evacuees among the 326 passengers who reached the city on Air India’s first ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ flight from London last Sunday claimed that they were made to pay entire amounts for the 14-day quarantine period at expensive hotels. The national carrier is operating the Vande Bharat Mission flights to bring home Indians stranded abroad owing to the coronavirus pandemic and the subsequent suspension of airline services.One of the passengers, who is a diabetes patient, said he and around 50 other passengers quarantined at a five-star were made to pay a lump sum amount of Rs 87,000 each for their stay.“Why should we bear this cost unnecessarily? The flight ticket cost per head was Rs 49,660. I have already spent almost Rs 2 lakh in a matter of five days for my wife and me,” the 60-year-old retired government official said.According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), all international passengers arriving in the city are being sent to hotels for institutional quarantine, while those reporting symptoms at the airport are sent to isolation wards in hospitals. These instructions are issued when the flights are booked giving passengers a choice to decide the hotel they would like to stay in.The senior citizen, however, clarified that while he was aware about the mandatory quarantine, he had chosen a relatively cheaper hotel.Also Read: Indian Covid-19 vaccine development to be backed by PM-CARES“Our hotel was changed to a five-star one in Santacruz at the last minute and we had no say on it because the district collector’s staff had taken over the process from BMC, creating confusion. The entire process is being handled in an unprofessional manner without consulting experts,” the passenger said.Another passenger, a 46-year-old Thane resident with kidney ailment, was taken to a hotel closer to his residence. “My parents are heart patients and I returned from London to take care of them. I am currently 15 minutes away from home but can only speak to my family over the phone. I have already paid Rs 63,000 for the isolation period,” he said.One of the other passengers said that even low-risk fliers were being quarantined. “I am not a threat to my neighbours as I live alone. I was identified as low-risk passenger at the airport. There is no need for me to be at a hotel but we have no option,” said the 32-year-old woman, who is a Khar resident. The BMC admitted that there were certain issues cited after the first flight from London landed, but directions were passed to resolve them.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“At one of hotels, the accommodation was full, and one group of passengers faced problems. But they were accommodated at a similar category hotel with almost the same charges,” said P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner, BMC.“After passengers claimed that they were being asked to pay the entire amount for 14 days, we instructed the hoteliers’ association to charge accommodation fees in four different instalments. Passengers now may not pay at one go. The problems were only faced for passengers in the first flight. Thereafter, 10 five-star hotels are now offering rooms at a concessional rate for Rs 4000 inclusive of all meals and facilities per day.” Meanwhile, the passengers also claimed that they had a harrowing experience after landing at Mumbai airport. The retired government official said that he and his wife were made to wait for four-and-a-half hours at the airport before being taken to the hotel even though they did not have any symptoms of the Sars-Cov-2 virus. “We landed at 1.30pm and reached our hotel at 6pm. At the airport, my wife sat on a wheel chair while I was standing throughout,” he said.Also Read: India Inc backs labour code plan on minimum wageThe senior citizen explained how the norms of social distancing or using adequate protective equipment were not followed at the airport. “Most airport officials we reached out for help were not wearing masks or gloves. There was no coordination, no proper distancing and confusion over going from one section to another. A day after our flight, we read reports that one of the airport staff was tested positive for Covid-19. My wife and I are both scared that we may have contracted the virus at the airport,” he said.Officials from Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) said the entire process was being handled by the Airport Health Organisation (APHO) with instructions from the Centre.“As this was the first flight, there were some issues. However, following improvisations, the process is much smoother now,” said an MIAL spokesperson, adding that the passenger movement was staggered, as the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) did not allow anyone to move from one section to another until they followed the mandated process.“All the airport staff are using personal protective equipment without which CISF does not allow them to enter. It took passengers more time to leave the airport as every process – from screening, filling self- declaration forms, downloading the government app, immigration, customs and identifying allotted hotels for quarantine – were monitored carefully,” the spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/we-were-made-to-pay-entire-amount-for-14-day-quarantine-period-at-hotels-say-vande-bharat-mission-fliers/story-wMSxnFz4G3Q6FAFzQmxAEI.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Government constitutes committee to expedite recruitment process in J&K||The J&K administration has constituted a committee to expedite the recruitment process for government vacancies and to ensure that principles of transparency, inclusiveness and speed are maintained during the process.As per an official order issued here on Thursday evening, sanction has been accorded to constitution of this committee.Navin K Choudhary, principal secretary, horticulture department, will be its chairman and nodal officer. Saurabh Bhagat, commissioner secretary, labour and employment department; Farooq Ahmad Lone, secretary, general administration department; and Achal Sethi, secretary, department of law, justice and parliamentary affairs will be other officers of the committee.The terms of reference of the committee shall be­‑‑ to identify the vacancies that need to be filled on an immediate basis with priority to Class-IV vacancies; finalising the procedure to be followed for recruitment so that the principles of transparency and inclusiveness are maintained and the process of recruitment is concluded speedily; to ensure that necessary sanctions/approvals are obtained, rules notified (wherever required) for enabling Services Selection Board to commence the recruitment process immediately and removing hitches in the recruitment process, if any.The chairman shall be responsible for the tasks assigned to the committee and shall be assisted by the other officers.The committee shall meet frequently and interact with administrative secretaries to ensure that the indent (s) for recruitment(s) is forwarded to the Service Selection Board by 22nd May, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/government-constitutes-committee-to-expedite-recruitment-process-in-j-k/story-W76yTytFg8fZT458VH4LfJ.html
15-05-2020||Mumbai||Discharge of Covid-19 patients under ICMR’s policy can increase spread, claim experts||The relaxation in the discharge policy directed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) may not be suitable for the country’s most populated city, where 42% of its population dwells in slums, experts claimed. However, the state health department said that citizens should believe in administration’s dexterity. Recently, ICMR released a new discharge policy for Covid-19 patients, which stated that mild and pre-symptomatic patients will be discharged from Covid-19 centres if they do not develop fever in three days. HT reported on Thursday that with the ICMR’s new policy coming into effect, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) would have to release around 2,500 asymptomatic patients from the Covid Care Centres-2 (CCC-2). These patients are carriers of Sars-Cov-2 that causes novel coronavirus. The government’s previous rule stated that Covid patients can be released only if their swab test reports came negative twice in two consecutive tests. But as per the new rule released on May 9, very mild, mild and pre-symptomatic patients will be discharged without any test. An analysis of BMC data revealed that G North ward (Dharavi, Dadar and Mahim) has the highest number of asymptomatic patients at 529, followed by the G South ward (272), which is among the worst-affected wards with multiple containment zones and a large number of slum pockets. The 121 asymptomatic patients at CCC-2 facilities in M East wards (Govandi, Deonar and Chembur) will also be discharged. At a time when the state health department has confirmed signs of community spread in the state, the release of these patients can further increase the number of Covid cases, claimed experts. “Despite so many hassles, we conducted the contract tracing and isolated the asymptomatic patients from the slums so that they don’t spread the infection. But with the release of these patients, we will be back to square one,” said a civic official from G North ward which comprises of Dharavi — the biggest slum in Asia with a population of 8.5 lakh.Doctors also claimed that ICMR needs to be more rigid to the largest city in India due to its demographic differences. “The new policy states that mild patients can be discharged after 10 days of the onset of the symptoms. But in several cases, we have seen that patients remain positive even on the 25th day. Premature discharge will further spread the infection among people living in small-sized households,” said Dr Vijay Natarajan, chief executive officer, Symbiosis University Hospital and Research Centre.Data procured by HT shows that there are also several discrepancies in the screening of high-risk contacts of Covid patients from the most-infected wards. Wards such as G North and South, D and F North, which recorded the maximum number of coronavirus cases have quarantined one of the lowest number of high-risk patients in CCC-1 (type 1 Covid care Centres) facilities, which highlights that a large vulnerable group of people are yet to be identified and isolated as high-risk patients.“Areas such as Govandi, Bandra (East) and Dadar have a large number of tuberculosis (TB) patients. If Covid patients get discharged without getting cured, those with compromised lungs can contract the infections,” said Dr Ravikant Singh, a health activist from Doctors For You.“Hospitals are running on limited resources and the rules are being changed keeping mind that if the number goes up further as predicted by the Health Ministry. But we also need to understand that policies need to be formulated on scientific evidence not on administrative requirements,” said Anant Bhan, a global health expert. “We need to keep a check if the discharged person actually turned negative through tests,” he added.The Centres for Disease Control and Prevention in the United States also revised its guidelines on May 6 and stated that no negative test for the virus if required for discharge. Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer said that depending on the impact and demographic spread of the virus, all the affected countries changed their policies, including China and Italy. He urged people to believe in experts from ICMR who have years of experience in the field and run several research before making policy changes. “When we say that a person is positive, it doesn’t mean he is still a spreader. He is just a carrier. Studies have shown that after ten days of the disease onset, the virus may not be infectious,” said Dr Awate. “Also, asymptomatic patients are not active carriers. They don’t sneeze or cough so the chance of infection spread is extremely limited,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/discharge-of-covid-19-patients-under-icmr-s-policy-can-increase-spread-claim-experts/story-z6Pxv1q0dZ0wjKkGu51aFM.html
15-05-2020||City||Maharashtra government wants to extend lockdown, waiting for Centre’s plan||The state government is in favour of extension of the ongoing lockdown till the end of the month. However, the government, during the meeting of the senior ministers and officials on Thursday, decided to wait till Sunday for the Centre to clarify its plan before making an announcement.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, his deputy Ajit Pawar and other senior ministers from the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government met at the bungalow reserved for Bal Thackeray memorial at Dadar to decide the course of action.The state leadership was unanimous over the extension of the lockdown with some more relaxations for industrial and commercial activities. The government is also in favour of allowing a few activities in red zones, by imposing stricter norms on containment zones.The meeting was convened to finalise the state’s official stand on the lockdown and its exit plan from it before conveying it to the Centre. “The CM has already spoken to district and divisional collectors. The government expects the Centre to relax some restrictions even in red zones,” said an official from the government. According to officials, while the Centre is expected to ease the restrictions for industrial and commercial activities, even in urban areas, the government has the power to continue with the stricter norms. “We are not in favour of allowing inter-district activities even in green and orange zones. There could be more relaxation in movements and industrial-commercial activities in these zones. We intend to introduce a few more activities in red zones too, by tightening the restrictions in containment zones. With the help of the central security forces, the zones will be sealed like ‘military curfew’, so that relaxations outside them are implemented with discipline,” another official said.Besides the CM and DCM, public works minister Ashok Chavan, revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat, public undertakings minister Eknath Shinde, water resources minister Jayant Patil and senior officials attended the meeting.The ministers also emphasised on the need to ensure that packages announced by the Central government be implemented in the state properly. They also discussed the measures to be taken for revival of the state economy. An expert committee of bureaucrats, including retired IAS officers, has said that industrial sector and other activities must be opened across non-containment zones. The committee has also recommended emphasis on Mumbai by launching a special project to re-start the state economy and also suggested a special programme to support vulnerable groups namely street vendors, drivers and self-employed service providers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-government-wants-to-extend-lockdown-waiting-for-centre-s-plan/story-LWf5xnkBqe1HE3PDPgzxlM.html
15-05-2020||City||2 Tarn Taran farmers booked for stubble burning||Two farmers were booked for allegedly burning wheat straw in their fields in Tarn Taran district, police said on Thursday. Mohinder Singh of Panjwar village and Kashmir Singh of Ahmedpura village were booked under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act. Sukhjinderpal Singh of Panjwar village, who lodged a complaint against Mohinder, said, “After harvesting wheat, he set his field on fire on Wednesday afternoon. The fire also burnt the stubble on our adjoining field.” On Tuesday, a farmer was booked for burning stubble in a field outside the office of the Tarn Taran deputy commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-tarn-taran-farmers-booked-for-stubble-burning/story-zWrEfiEAnkwyTeGU9LqvaP.html
15-05-2020||City||What hit HP in fight against Covid-19||SHIMLA/DHARAMSHALA At the beginning of May, Himachal Pradesh was inching closer towards becoming a coronavirus-free state with only one active case.The state seemed to have ticked all the right boxes and contained the spread of Covid-19. May 5 was the cut-off date as the state had not recorded a fresh case since April 23. The government was ready to make an announcement to this effect.However, a day before May5, the hill-state recorded a fresh case in Joginderngar of Mandi district. Next day, a youth from Sarkaghat died of the contagion. In less than two weeks, the state recorded 30 cases. The total positive cases in HP soared to 74, including two deaths. So, what went wrong ?MISTAKE OF OPENING THE BORDERSThe biggest mistake that the Himachal authorities committed was to open the borders of the state on April 26 to facilitate the return of those stranded in the other states.Thousands of people thronged the state-borders, chocking the inter-state barriers and throwing social distancing norms to the wind.The arrangements made by the bordering districts to screen the returnees were not enough and many entered unchecked.More than 50,000 people entered the state in less than a week, prompting the authorities to close its borders again.Things got spiral out of control as the government committed another mistake by sending the returnees direct to their homes, instead of placing them under institutional quarantine.So, why the government was forced to open the borders? The people, who were abiding by the government’s request of ‘stay put where you are’ started raising questions when two MP’s were allowed to quietly enter the state.Further, the government’s April 23 decision of bringing back stranded students from Kota, Rajasthan, added fuel to the fire, as others began to ask, “Why only they, what about us?”THE BIG SPIKESince May 4, the state has recorded 30 cases, including one fatality. Seventy per cent of the cases had travel history to other states, mostly Delhi-NCR and rest were their contacts. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur admitted that the number of cases have gone up after the people started returning to the state. “Over one lakh people have already entered the state and 55,000 more have applied for e-passes,” he had said in a press meeting two-day ago. He, however, also said that the state government could not have left its people stranded in the other states to fend for themselves.LACK OF RESOURCESThe state is still struggling to get rapid testing kits, while there is also a dearth of PPE kits and masks. Against its demand of 30,000 rapid testing kits from the Centre, Himachal only got 4,800 kits and these were too returned for being faulty. The state also lacks an adequate number of ventilators. Currently, there are only 60 ventilators in the health institutions across the state.STRENGTHENING THE QUARANTINEAfter much damage was done, chief minister announced to is make quarantine mechanism more stringent. Those returning from other states, especially red zones and those with influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms, are being quarantined in institutional facilities.Home quarantine has also been made stricter. Harsher penalties are being imposed for jumping quarantine.“Each and every person entering the state has to undergo thorough medical examination, then only it should be decided whether the person has to be kept under institutional quarantine or home quarantine,” Jai Ram had directed the district officials through video conferencing two-days ago. The state is also considering to create paid quarantine facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/what-hit-hp-in-fight-against-covid-19/story-6tMrFnY66UqtpQATKesqaP.html
15-05-2020||Lucknow||Two including a Tablighi Jamaat member feted by Lucknow Police||The Lucknow Police has awarded a Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) member with the Alert Citizen Award for voluntarily getting himself tested, and another citizen, for offering to be quarantined soon after the lockdown was imposed.Joint commissioner of police (law and order) Naveen Arora awarded Mohammad Wahid, who attended the Delhi Markaz, and Yash Thakur, who had offered to be quarantined after he returned from London, on Thursday. Wahid, a preacher, said that he left his home district in November and visited several places for work ever since.“I appreciate the police’s initiative. This is not only an award but a certificate that I and several others like me who approached the authorities for medical examination, went to quarantine centres, are not Covid-19 spreaders,” he said.Gomti Nagar resident Yash Thakur was studying in London and arrived in India on March 18 amid the Covid-19 outbreak.“When I reached home, I felt some symptoms like cough and cold. The next day, I went to the hospital and apprised them about my travel history,” he said. “I am happy that I was among those who acted as an alert citizen,” he added.JCP Arora said, “The aim of this award is to encourage people to come forward for medical testing and get quarantined if required.”Earlier, he advised members of the Tablighi Jamaat and those who have come in contact with them to come forward for medical examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/two-including-a-tablighi-jamaat-member-feted-by-lucknow-police/story-h3MVICGLVaorsuohm5jpxI.html
15-05-2020||City||Encounter breaks out in Kulgam; militants manage to flee||An encounter broke out between militants and security forces in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kulgam district, police said on Thursday. Last night the army, police and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) had launched a joint operation after receiving an input about presence of militants at Yumrach village in the district, a police official said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after the militants shot at the search party indiscriminately . “The troops immediately took cover and retaliated, however, the militants managed to escape taking the cover of darkness. A case has been registered and investigation is underway,” a police statement said.The police said searches were still under progress in the area to track down the militants.Last week, J&K police had got a big breakthrough in South Kashmir after operational commander of Hizbul Mujahideen, Riyaz Naikoo, was killed in an encounter at his native village, Gulzarpora Beighpora. He was killed along with his associate, a militant from Pulwama. Since the lockdown was announced in Kashmir on March 21, as many as 33 militants and their two associates were killed in 15 gunfights in different parts of Kashmir. Most of the encounters took place in four districts of South Kashmir- -Pulwama, Shopian, Kulgam and Anantnag. 20 security personnel had lost their lives in 18 in gunfights and two army men were killed in ceasefire violation on the Line of Control. Director general of police Dilbagh Singh had recently attributed the surge in attacks to fresh infiltration reported from north Kashmir’s Uri and Kupwara sectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/encounter-breaks-out-in-kulgam-militants-manage-to-flee/story-a3pXBi3ZtRsXzJ4h4QFTAJ.html
15-05-2020||City||54-yr-old woman dies in hit-and-run case in Ludhiana||A 54-year-old woman died in a hit-and-run incident on Wednesday after a speeding motorcycle hit the cycle rickshaw she was travelling on, with her daughter-in-law.The victim was identified as Pyari of Manoranjan Colony of Salem Tabri. The case was registered based on the statement of Rajni, the daughter-in-law, .The accused has been identified as Gagandeep Sharma of New Sutantar Nagar.Rajni said, “Me and my mother-in-law were going to see a doctor. When we were near Jassiyan road, a motorcycle hit the rickshaw and we fell on the road. My mother-in-law suffered injuries on her head and was rushed to a hospital, where she succumbed to her injuries.”Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Pritpal Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused. “We managed to trace the registration number of the motorcycle and identified the accused. A hunt is on for his arrest,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/54-yr-old-woman-dies-in-hit-and-run-case-in-ludhiana/story-Puo05Wb2AJz40dD3chXGPJ.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University to constitute panels to monitor its functioning||After reopening its offices on Wednesday, Panjab University (PU) on Thursday decided to constitute panels to monitor its various functions, including examination and admission processes.The decision was taken during a meeting of PU task force, which was chaired by vice-chancellor (V-C) Raj Kumar, on Thursday. Besides constituting the panels for admission and examination processes, it was decided that the varsity will also constitute sub-committees for monitoring students’ issues and functioning of laboratories.PU V-C urged employees to take concerted steps to work out the modalities for the upcoming examination work, admission process, keeping in mind the best interests of the students.The meeting was attended by dean university instructions (DUI) RK Singla, dean research VR Sinha, registrar Karamjeet Singh, senator Rajat Sandhir along with other officials.Meanwhile, during the meeting, PU registrar Karamjeet Singh said that all the administrative offices and most of the teaching departments of the university had been sanitised and the work was in progress for the remaining departments. He added that it would be a regular feature to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic. He further said that in-house arrangements had been made to make the university remained functional in the best interests of students and staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-constitute-panels-to-monitor-its-functioning/story-bQYeDnkX1XBc7aRaKMAFAO.html
15-05-2020||City||40-year-old man hangs self in Sirmaur district||A 40-year-old man allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a ventilation window in Sirmaur district of Himachal Pradesh, police said on Thursday.Police said the deceased, Suniel Kumar, of Gagal Sikor village, Pachhad, took the extreme step as he was going through financial difficulties.Superintendent of police (SP) Ajay Krishan Sharma said that Kumar had gone to his room after having dinner on Wednesday night. On Thursday morning, his family members tried to call him for tea and even knocked on his door, but received no response. After waiting for sometime, they called up the police who reached the spot and found Suniel hanging from the ventilator window in his room, the SP said.He was rushed to primary health centre, Naina Tikkar, where he was declared brought dead. His body was handed over to his relatives after conducting the post-mortem.A case under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure has been registered at Sirmaur police station and a probe is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/40-year-old-man-hangs-self-in-sirmaur-district/story-U6IBB1n8t9HkKIiSSSZ2tO.html
15-05-2020||City||Ludhiana’s GGNKC to hold int’l digital symposium from May 28||Gujranwala Guru Nanak Khalsa College (GGNKC) will hold a two-day digital international symposium from May 28 on role of science during the post Covid-19 era.“It is an initiative to discuss various dimensions of the Covid-19 pandemic. Teachers, researchers, students and masses, in general, should be made aware of the views of scientists on this global crisis,” said SP Singh, president of Gujranwala Khalsa Educational Council and former vice-chancellor of Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), Amritsar. “Through this symposium, we will try to enhance the knowledge of our participants about the causes, effects and challenges of this epidemic and will also try to make them aware of latest scientific developments to fight the epidemic,” told Arvinder Singh, principal of Gujranwala Guru Nanak Khalsa College.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-s-ggnkc-to-hold-int-l-digital-symposium-from-may-28/story-QcEyVeUL9un3jpupykv0lM.html
15-05-2020||Mumbai||HC directs MoEFCC interim panel to decide on vehicular access to Matheran ESZ during lockdown||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday directed an interim monitoring committee appointed by the Ministry of Environment and Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) to decide on a plea by former Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MLA Suresh Lad seeking to temporarily lift the Ecologically Sensitive Zone (ESZ) status of Matheran in a bid to enable small vehicles to bring in essential commodities for the 4,500 residents of the hill station. The committee has been asked to take a decision by May 15 while petitioners have been asked to raise objections, if any, against the decision by May 16. A single bench of justice SJ Kathawalla, while hearing the public interest litigation (PIL), was informed by advocate Gaurav Parkar that Matheran depends on tourism to earn a living, but since the lockdown was imposed the business has stopped. It was further informed that hand cart pullers and horse carts used to carry goods to the town were not available, and urged the court to allow small vehicles to visit the town with essential commodities.The state said that after 2003 when Matheran was declared an ESZ, MoEFCC was directed to form a monitoring committee, with a two-year tenure each, to oversee the needs of the residents vis-à-vis ecological impact of vehicular activities. However, even as the tenure of the last committee ended, no new committee was formed. The state asked that MoEFCC should be asked take a decision on the same as the state does not have an authority to decide on the issue.On Thursday, additional solicitor general Anil Singh submitted an affidavit filed by Lalit Bokolia, director in the MoEFCC, which stated that an interim committee has been formed under the chairmanship of Konkan Divisional Commissioner on May 13 which would decide on the application of the petitioner. The affidavit further stated the committee would have a tenure of six months and that a full-fledged committee would be formed in three months.After perusing the affidavit, justice Kathawalla observed, “While the decision to restrict vehicles in Matheran was taken in 2003 in the spirit of protecting ecological balance of Matheran ESZ, one cannot lose sight of the fact that in the current situation, it is also extremely essential to balance an individual’s right to procure with ease basic essentials and food supplies required to sustain life, which is at the very core of Article 21 of the Constitution.”He further observed, “A via media needs to be arrived at, whereby a vehicle is allowed to reach the core area of Matheran with essential supplies/goods on a regular basis and at the same time also ensure that such vehicles follow pollution norms so as to protect the ESZ of Matheran.”The petition has been placed for further hearing on May 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-directs-moefcc-interim-panel-to-decide-on-vehicular-access-to-matheran-esz-during-lockdown/story-fqixVNtK5o4VtXHQrm849I.html
15-05-2020||Mumbai||Complaint against news portal for defamatory article against governor||A police complaint has been filed with the cyber cell of the Mumbai Police against a news portal for publishing news that Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari facilitated travel of a model from Maharashtra to Dehradun via Delhi with the help of Army helicopter during lockdown, said Raj Bhavan on Thursday. The complaint was lodged against the portal with the cybercrime police station at Bandra-Kurla Complex in Mumbai.The article claimed that the Governor recommended and facilitated travel of a model from Uttarakhand, who was stuck in Maharashtra due to lockdown. She was allegedly first sent to Delhi in an Army helicopter and then taken to her home at Dehradun in an Army vehicle between April 24 and 25.“The contents of the news are false, fabricated and based on nefarious design with an intent to malign the unblemished image of Hon’ble Governor,” states the statement released by Raj Bhavan.“Actually, no such recommendation was given by Raj Bhavan, Mumbai in the matter,” said a BKC cyber police officer. A non-cognisable complaint has been registered under sections 500, 501 of the Indian Penal Code for defamation. “We shall be seeking permission from the court for investigating the matter,” the officer added.Maha bicycle mayors write to CM In a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, five bicycle mayors from the state (Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Pune and Nagpur) have stressed on prioritising use of bicycles during and after the lockdown. They have asked the government to let bicycle repair shops operate as essential services and dedicate neighbourhood shopping streets only for cycling/walking among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/complaint-against-news-portal-for-defamatory-article-against-governor/story-9XJPgEV8pJ9C6r3yv4W5nO.html
15-05-2020||Mumbai||State sees highest spike in cases for 2nd day in a row||For a second consecutive day, Maharashtra reported its highest 24-hour spike in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases with 1,602 new infections on Thursday, taking its tally to 27,524. On Wednesday, the state had reported 1,495 cases. Of Thursday’s infections, 20,441 are active cases, said state health officials. However, officials, said there is no exponential growth and that the state has also not reached the stage of community transmission — where the source of infection is not known.Mumbai also recorded its highest one-day jump with 991 cases, taking its count to 16,738. The state’s toll breached the 1,000 mark after 44 deaths were recorded on Thursday, bringing the number to 1,019. Of them, 25 are in Mumbai, 10 in Navi Mumbai, five in Pune, two in Aurangabad and one each in Panvel and Kalyan. Of the 44 deceased, 34 were patients with comorbid conditions, said health officials. The death toll of Mumbai is 621.As the Centre is planning more relaxations post May 17, when the third phase of the lockdown ends, the number of fresh cases is rising rapidly in Maharashtra. Since more than a week (from May 6), the state is getting over 1,000 cases daily and by May 17, it is likely to breach the 30,000 mark. In May (last 14 days) alone, the state has reported as many as 17,026 cases. The first case was reported on March 9.The number of fresh cases has increased significantly this month, considering the average was around 500 new cases daily till April-end, which turned into four digits since May 6.The daily cases in the past eight days are as follows — May 6: 1,233; May 7: 1,216; May 8: 1,089; May 9: 1,165; May 10: 1,278; May 11: 1,230; May 12: 1,026 and May 13: 1,495. Besides, on May 10, the state also declared an additional 665 cases respectively, saying that they were registered in the past few days and are being declared as per the Central government’s directive to bring the data at par with the national figures on ICMR’s website. Between April 19 and 30, the state was getting around 500 new cases daily.In the past fourteen days since May 1, the state has reported as many as 17,026 cases, whereas the total number of cases registered in April was 10,201.Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER,) said, “The numbers are rising, but it cannot be called as exponential growth as in that case, the numbers multiply for daily cases. If the number of fresh cases becomes double on a daily basis, only then it can be called exponential growth.”“The state has also not reached the community transmission stage as it comes with exponential growth only,” he added.Meanwhile, the number of recoveries jumped to 6,059 with 512 more patients recovering on Thursday.Dr Pradeep Vyas, principal secretary, health department, said that the doubling rate of cases has improved to 11.1 days from 10 days. The state government has decided to take the rate to 20 days in the days to come, said the health minister Rajesh Tope. The state government had also resolved to bring the entire state under the green zone by this month-end.So far, 15,465 people have been kept in institutional quarantine in the state and over 3,15,686 people have been put under home quarantine. On Thursday, the state also completed 52 days of lockdown, which was imposed from the midnight of March 23, a day before the nationwide lockdown imposed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It was partially lifted on April 20 in areas where there are no cases or they are minimal in number.On Monday, the health department also declared it had conducted 2,40,145 tests at various public and private facilities across Maharashtra. Of them, 2,12,621 people tested negative. State currently has 1,512 active containment zones. A total of 14,253 survey teams comprising doctors and assisting staff have screened more than 59.04 lakh people. The mortality rate of the state has come down to 3.76% (975 deaths) on Wednesday, from 7.41% (148 cases) on April 13. However, it continued to be higher than the national mortality rate of 3.27% (2,549 deaths) till Wednesday, revealed data of the state medical education department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-sees-highest-spike-in-cases-for-2nd-day-in-a-row/story-VjHTfcz7pSM0UOkhtLq5FN.html
15-05-2020||Mumbai||Expert panel defers Mumbai’s marina plan||The Mumbai Port Trust’s (MbPT) plans for a ₹364.84-crore marina at Prince’s Dock has been deferred by an expert panel of the Central government. In a meeting held via video-conferencing on April 28, environment ministry’s Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC) has raised concerns over the impact of the reclamation for migratory birds and roosting sites.EAC has also stated that ‘project proponent’ needs to be ‘mindful’ of the possible increase in traffic volume owing to the recreational facility and asked for detailed designs of the marina with ‘impact during floods/storm surges’.With a decline in port activities, MbPT has envisaged a major urban overhaul of the eastern waterfront stretching from Wadala to Colaba in the city. As part of the plan, the port trust proposed a marina with a capacity for 300 yachts on an 8.02-hectare land at Prince’s Dock in south Mumbai. The project falls under Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ)-II, CRZ-1 (B) and CRZ-IV as per approved Coastal Zone Management Plan (CZMP) 2011, the committee notes.The Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) had recommended the proposal for clearance in December 2019. Sanjay Bhatia, chairman, MbPT, said, “They (EAC) have raised some queries. We will reply to that.” MbPT had earlier received CRZ clearance for undertaking reclamation for an Offshore Container Terminal (OCT) in 2006. While reclamation was undertaken in 2015-16, few pockets were left un-reclaimed, and the project was shelved. The new marina project has been proposed by “re-storing water bodies by re-excavation of existing part basin”, the committee notes.It states, “However, the committee also desired to know the impact of such reclamation on near shore areas for migratory birds and roosting sites, if any, with focus on whether such reclamation and subsequent impact (both positive and negative) on migratory birds will affect Navi Mumbai International Airport air safety.”In its letter to MbPT in 2019, Mumbai-based Urban Design Research Institute (UDRI) had objected to the development of a marina in the area saying that it is “a high-capital project that will exclusively cater to a select few privileged owners of yachts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/expert-panel-defers-mumbai-s-marina-plan/story-Z5RgjZoQYmeqC8amBqY7FP.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||BJP leader, brother among six booked for kidnapping minor||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) SC Morcha former national executive member Sheetal Angural and his brother are among six people booked by the city police on Thursday for allegedly kidnapping and assaulting a minor two months back.According to police, a 15-year-old boy was kidnapped when he working at the office of Sheetal’s brother Rajan Angural.The case is registered under Sections 365, 368, 346, 343, 323, 195A, 109, and 120B of the IPC, Section 75 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, and 23 (1) of the POCSO Act againt Jolly, Jinny, Deepa, Chirag, Rajan Angural and Sheetal Angural on statement of the child with the district child protection officer in the presence of his mother.In his complaint, the child said that on March 11, he was called to the office by Rajan, where all accused were present. The Angurals and their associates accused the child of planting chitta (heroin) in the office after getting Rs 25,000 from two persons named Lalli and Sinder.“They assaulted and injured me, and then called a doctor to the office who bandaged my wounds,” the child said.He alleged that afterwards, he was taken to a village in Mukerian where they confronted him with two persons, identifying them as Pakistan-linked smugglers, threatening that they will get his family implicated in NDPS cases.“At around 9pm they brought me back in their vehicle and Rajan Angural recorded my video in which I was pressurized to say that Lalli and Sinder had asked me to plant chitta in his office. On March 16, I was released by them and again threatened that my family will be implicated in false cases if I tell anyone what happened,” the child alleged.He said that when his mother asked him about the bandage, he lied. “On April 30, Sheetal made my video public after which my mother and relatives questioned me and then I finally told them about the incident,” he said. The complaint has been filed at division number 5 police station, said SHO Ravinder Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bjp-leader-brother-among-six-booked-for-kidnapping-minor/story-13D8jjla6083gECLP1TlYL.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Government college teachers working on frontline in Chandigarh demand relief policy in case of fatality||The teachers of government colleges of Chandigarh serving as front-line workers during the pandemic have demanded clarity on the compensation policy in case of fatality. In a letter to the UT adviser, Manoj Kumar Parida, and home secretary Arun Kumar Gupta, the Chandigarh Government College Teachers Association has requested that the dependent members or legal heirs of those college teachers engaged in government duty to fight the coronavirus pandemic should be granted ex-gratia compensation in case they die on duty.The union has said that their demand was in line with the orders of the Punjab government.Professor Manoj Kumar, general secretary of the Association said, “We are concerned about the health and security of the teachers as much as that of other employees of the administration. We feel proud to serve the nation in these tough times. However, there is a need for clarity on the relief and compensation policy in the event of any causality during performance of such duties.”He added, “A policy will boost the morale and instil a feeling of security among the employees working in the field.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/government-college-teachers-working-on-front-line-in-chandigarh-demand-clarity-on-relief-policy-in-case-of-fatality/story-PaWB1KeKZgJXMmdIVnWfMK.html
15-05-2020||City||Man left jobless due to lockdown ends life by jumping before train||Two men rendered jobless due to the lockdown ended their lives in separate incidents in Mohali district on Thursday.In the first case, a 35-year-old man killed himself by jumping before a Shramik Special train on the Ambala-Kalka rail line near Nagla village in Zirakpur.The train was on its way from Ambala to Chandigarh to ferry migrants to Bihar. Police said the deceased, a resident of Panchkula, worked for a solar panel factory in Phase 1, Panchkula.“He was unemployed since the lockdown was enforced and had not even got his dues for previous months, which left him depressed,” said ASI Rajinder Singh Dhillon from Railway Police Force, Ghaggar.No suicide note was found on the spot. The police got in touch with the deceased’s wife using his mobile phone’s last dialled number. The woman told the police that her husband had left home in the morning for some work. The deceased is survived by his wife, a 12-year-old son and a 10-year-old daughter. In a similar case, another unemployed man committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree at a forest in Alamgir village, Lalru. The deceased, aged 25, hailed from Uttar Pradesh and lived in the hutments near Alamgir village. He worked as helper in a factory through a contractor and had been without jobless since the curfew began. His body was found by two children, who informed the deceased’s family. The youth was rushed to the Lalru civil hospital where he was declared brought dead.The deceased’s brother told the police that he was unmarried and stressed due to shortage of money. The police did not find any suicide note. Both bodies were moved to the Dera Bassi civil hospital for autopsy. Police have started inquested proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-left-jobless-due-to-lockdown-ends-life-by-jumping-before-train/story-ZJ5ctNhxn0nD4RTGCF23eP.html
15-05-2020||City||1800 J&K residents return to UT in 2 trains from Goa, Delhi||Nearly 1,800 stranded Jammu and Kashmir residents from Delhi and Goa reaching Jammu and Udhampur railway stations on Wednesday night and Thursday morning in two special trains, the number of returnees to J&K crossed 40,000 mark.A total of 1,018 passengers from New Delhi reached Jammu railway station around 5.05 am on Thursday . “After their screening and sampling, the returnees were sent to their respective districts in buses where they will be kept in administrative quarantine till their Covid-19 reports arrive,” said Chetan Taneja, station director and senior divisional traffic manager, Jammu.Jammu deputy commissioner Sushma Chauhan , who received the returnees, had a brief interaction with the passengers and wished them safe and comfortable journey ahead. Urging the passengers to cooperate with the district authorities and ensure strict adherence to the guidelines issued by the government, she said, “Following the guidelines is the only option to contain the spread of Covid-19,” she added.She said that the administration has ensured that during the boarding and de-boarding process, the passengers observe social distancing and wear masks. The district administration has made elaborate arrangements for receiving these stranded people, she added. Earlier, a Shramik Special train from Goa brought 759 passengers to Udhampur on Wednesday night. Udhampur district commissioner Piyush Singla said, “Fourth train carrying 759 more passengers from Goa arrived at Udhampur railway station at 8.30 pm on Wednesday.”Meanwhile, 175 people, including 11 minors stranded at Bathinda, Jammu, left for Kashmir in seven buses. The government had also deployed a fleet of buses for shifting J&K residents stranded in various parts of Maharashtra to Nagpur. Around 900 J&K residents, including 400 students, will be brought back by a special train that will leave Nagpur for Udhampur on Thursday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1800-j-k-residents-return-to-ut-in-2-trains-from-goa-delhi/story-HEVZZ7QnG76C61n729mcVK.html
15-05-2020||Lucknow||UPSRTC starts bus service for ferrying workers||Taking note of the requirement of the labourers unable to reach their industrial units due to non-availability of public transport, the UP state road transport corporation (UPSRTC) is providing buses to the industries for ferrying their workforce, said Rajesh Kumar Singh, principal secretary, UPSRTC, on Thursday. The UPSRTC is providing buses at concessional rates in all 75 districts. The buses will be available at 115 bus stops in these districts for ferrying the workers, he said. “The government has also issued a GO in this regard. It seems industrialists are not aware of the arrangement made by us for providing mobility to workers,” said Rajesh Kumar Singh.In a bid to kick-start the industrial activities in the state, the centre has permitted the industries not only in orange and green zones but also in red zones, in all notified industrial areas across the state.District authorities at most of the places played the role of facilitator and permitted industrial activities in their respective regions. But due to the shortage of public transport labourers could not reach their units.Industrial activity across the state came to standstill from March 25, the day centre-imposed lockdown across the country to check the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/upsrtc-starts-bus-service-for-ferrying-workers/story-L6nCCgaPClpCiL8TWN52oL.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Odd-even restrictions might be lifted for shops in Chandigarh’s neighbourhood markets||The odd-even restrictions in shops in all neighbourhood markets were likely to be lifted from May 17 with the beginning of the fourth phase of the countrywide lockdown. Change in shop timings was also possible, it was learnt.Saying it was the “administration’s call” to allow shops with odd and even numbers to open on alternate days, sources said the Centre had allowed opening of all shops in the inner sectors for 12 hours straight in its phase 3 lockdown guidelines. “In the upcoming lockdown phase the union territory is contemplating opening of all shops in internal markets as the Centre too is focusing on the welfare of small traders,” said sources familiar with the matter. UT authorities, however, remained non-committal about other relaxations, even as traders in the city demanded opening of the marketing hub of Sector 17 and other prominent shopping zones such as Sector 22; including malls. Allowing cab services and public transport was also on the residents’ wish list, especially when such restrictions were being relaxed in neighbouring states and private and government offices being opened gradually in the city. WAIT FOR CENTRAL GUIDELINES: PARIDAWhen contacted, UT adviser Manoj Parida said he was unable to comment on the nature of relaxations in the next lockdown phase in the city till the Central guidelines were announced. Chandigarh was a Centrally administered territory unlike states which could take their own decisions. “So we will have to wait for the relaxations the Centre provides in its new guidelines and accordingly it will be reviewed at the level of the UT administrator for a final decision,” said Parida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/odd-even-restrictions-might-be-lifted-for-shops-in-chandigarh-s-neighbourhood-markets/story-NligziHI09SF2ec0lxRZVJ.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||‘Drug trade: 47 Punjab cops sacked, 17 suspended in 3 yrs’||In order to unearth nexus between police department employees and drug trafficking, the special task force (STF) and district police in Punjab have registered 114 criminal cases against 148 police personnel and initiated departmental inquiries against 61 from April 2017 to April 30, 2020.Stating this, special task force chief-cum-additional director general of police (ADGP) Harpreet Singh Sidhu said 47 police personnel had also been dismissed and another 17 suspended so far. The police also forfeited properties worth Rs 18.46 crore in 37 proposals in 2017, Rs 11.37 crore in 37 proposals in 2018, Rs 37.69 crore in 50 proposals in 2019 and another Rs 1.68 crore in 11 proposals up to March 21, 2020, he added in a statement. Apart from this, 58 cases are pending with competent authority for confirmation of property worth approximately Rs 20.5 crore.Sidhu said that since the inception of STF in April 2017, law enforcement agencies had recovered 1,376 kilogram heroin, 1,515 kg opium, 1,24,728 kg poppy husk, 6,053 kg ganja and 2,74,33119 pills/capsules besides large amount of drug money. The recovery of 464 Kg of heroin in 2019 was the highest in the last five years, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/drug-trade-47-punjab-cops-sacked-17-suspended-in-3-yrs/story-B9D9f7xjTAAcCCie1aAJgJ.html
15-05-2020||City||Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Foundation celebrates Sirhind Fateh Divas||The Sirhind Fateh Divas was celebrated on Thursday by Baba Banda Singh Bahadur International Foundation at Jyoti Sarup Sahib gurudwara. In the aftermath, the foundation went to the historical Chappar Chiri village in Mohali district and organised a function at Sri Fateh Jung gurudwara. Krishan Kumar Bawa, chairman Punjab State Industrial Development Corporation (PSIDC), who is also president of Baba Banda Singh Bahadur International Foundation honoured the management of the gurudwara. He said it was the 350th birth anniversary of Baba Banda Singh Bahadur and the foundation had earlier decided to celebrate it on a large scale to familiarise people about Baba Banda Singh Bahadur and his sacrifices, but in the wake of the Covid crisis the programme was cancelled.He said the foundation would go to every place related to the great warrior and celebrate his birth anniversary on Oct 16 at Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Bhawan in Raqba village in Ludhiana district .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/baba-banda-singh-bahadur-foundation-celebrate-sirhind-fateh-divas/story-RxjnqzbFtx2pToUC9Ue2BO.html
15-05-2020||City||Reach out to Covid-19 positive youth in Riyadh, HP CM urges external affairs minister||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday urged external affairs minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar to take up the matter of extending help to a Covid-19 positive youth from Mandi in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, with the embassy officers there.Manoj Kumar, son of Duni Chand of Tour Jajar village in Mandi district, who is working in Riyadh, was tested positive for Covid-19. After being discharged from hospital there, he was abandoned by the company he was working for.In a telephonic conversation with the external affairs minister, the CM said that the man was in distress as he was not being provided food and medication and urged him to provide all assistance to Kumar.Earlier, Thakur , in a video call with Kumar, had assured him that all possible help would be extended to him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/reach-out-to-covid-19-positive-youth-in-riyadh-hp-cm-urges-external-affairs-minister/story-qP9LGRPgVDZ3LdJETCvdEN.html
15-05-2020||City||Mohali spends ₹1.33 crore to sent migrant workers back home||Mohali district has run up a tab of Rs 1.33 crore to ferry migrant workers back home to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar due to the Covid-19 lockdown even as 15,000 workers and their families were sent back in a week, deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said on Thursday.There was also a 30% drop in the number of migrants wanting to go back home as industries opened and farming jobs were renewed because of paddy transplantation.On the budget for a train journey, Dayalan said running a Shramik Special cost Rs 9 lakh, tickets amounted to Rs 7.5 lakh, 60 buses to transport labourers to the railway station meant an additional Rs 1.25 lakh. Water and refreshments for the journey cost Rs 30,000.Eight trains had left Mohali for various destinations of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh (UP) in a week.Six more trains were proposed for both the states, Dayalan said, adding that the money was being spent from the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) and funding of Rs 2.18 crore allocated by the Punjab government for Mohali out of Rs 53.43 crore for all districts in the state to tackle the Covid-19 crisis.TRAINS SENT WHERE MAJORITY WANTED TO GOOn how the administration started sending back the workers from May 7, with eight trains leaving Mohali up to May 14, taking migrants to UP, Bihar and Jharkhand, Dayalan said data was compiled, statistics worked out and district wise departure schedule planned for the entire population of outbound migrants. First, districts where a large chunk of workers belonged to, such as Hardoi in UP, were targeted and then others were sent to multiple adjacent destinations in special trains.Six more trains are also proposed on May 15, 16 and 18.30% DROP IN NUMBERS OF WORKERS WANTING TO GO BACKDayalan also said that about 30% migrant workers registering with administration to go home had decided not to do so with easing of lockdown restrictions in labour-intensive industrial and construction sectors coupled with work opportunities in the paddy transplantation period.However, the administration was “geared up to help others wanting to return. In fact, we are also going to extend boarding facility from Mohali to the migrants from Ropar and Nawanshahar seeking to go back to districts listed by the Mohali administration,” he said.Those wanting to go to destinations not in the current schedule of the administration would be sent in trains headed there from neighbouring districts.BUSES GOING TO MANIPUR, ANDHRADayalan also said 225 workers were sent from Sirhind in buses towards Manipur and Andhra Pradesh while 900 would leave for Madhya Pradesh on Friday. People seeking to go back on private vehicles were also being issued permission after due screening.Health checks of the workers, once at the collection centre and then at the railway station were being done. Bus transportation (to the station) was provided free of cost and food, water and biscuits were provided by the administration.All vehicles had departed exactly at the scheduled time.The eighth special train which left Mohali Railway Station for Bihar on Thursday carried 1,501 migrant workers back to their home state with stoppages at Katihar, Patna, Champaran and Barauni.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-spends-1-33-crore-to-sent-migrant-workers-back-home/story-1tarbPrVC1MOu8UM8tvSgO.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||No vegetable supply via CTU buses in Chandigarh from May 16||The UT administration has decided to discontinue supply of vegetables and fruits through CTU buses from May 16. MC commissioner KK Yadav, who was supervising the supply, said it will now be restricted to only containment zones. As many as 84 buses were plying, out of which 76 buses will go off the road. Yadav said supply of essentials had improved with relaxations in place and licence has been given to 600 vendors to sell fruits and vegetables in sectors.MC councillor Devinder Babla, however, said the move will jack up the prices and also affect daily supply. To this, Yadav said there were sufficient vendors in every area to cater to the needs of residents, and prices will remain controlled as before.He said all vendors will charge as per the daily price list released by the market committee, and will face action if found overcharging. Residents can call MC and market committee office to register their complaints in this regard.The MC chief assured that all vendors will be medically screened at regular intervals..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-veggie-supply-via-ctu-buses-from-tomorrow/story-1pCisHX9hDoYy4dzAADDcI.html
15-05-2020||Gurugram||Migrant worker walking back home with family run over by truck on Jharsa flyover||Over an hour after a 36-year-old migrant worker set out to walk to his village in Sitapur district in Uttar Pradesh, a journey of over 500 kilometres, he was killed after a canter truck rammed into him on Jharsa flyover on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday, police said. His family members, including two children, who were walking a few metres behind him survived the collision.According to the police, the victim, Vipin Singh, worked as a daily wager at a private company in Udyog Vihar Phase 1. The firm was shut since the nationwide lockdown was imposed in March, and Vipin was left out of work, said victims’ younger brother, Pushpendra Singh, in the police complaint.Pushpendra, 32, said, “My brother was walking at least 20 steps ahead of us. We had started our journey around 12.30am, and were ascending the Jharsa flyover when a speeding canter truck hit my brother from behind. After the collision, the canter truck lost balance and rammed into another truck. The truck driver did not stop, while the driver of the canter truck abandoned his vehicle and escaped on foot.” A case has been registered against the canter driver.The police said the victim sustained severe injuries and was rushed to the Sector 10 civil hospital by the highway patrol team. A police officer privy to the investigation in the matter, requesting anonymity, said, “The incident took place around 1.30am. The victim succumbed to his injuries during treatment. The canter, which had a Delhi registration number, has been seized and we are trying to trace the suspect.”Police officers said the victim was accompanied by his wife, children, and his brother’s family. At least ten people, including the victim, were among those walking together to their village Shiv Singh Purwa. In the police complaint, Pushpendra said, “My brother and I had moved to Gurugram several years ago in search of work, and had been staying on rent in Sirhaul village. I worked in a garment firm in Udyog Vihar. After the lockdown, we had been out of work and decided to return to our village for a better living. So, we all decided to walk to Sitapur and had only walked for a bit when the incident took place.”The victim’s body was handed over to the family after an autopsy on Wednesday, following which the family returned to UP in an ambulance, the police said.A case was registered against the driver of the canter truck under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304A (death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code at Sector 40 police station on Wednesday, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/migrant-worker-walking-back-home-with-family-run-over-by-truck-on-jharsa-flyover/story-NjV7k4MxIiwnhQioSkY6FP.html
15-05-2020||Gurugram||Farrukhnagar keeps Covid at bay through restrictions and social distancing||Farrukhnagar, one of the four blocks in the Gurugram district, has managed to keep coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases at bay since the beginning of the outbreak. Surrounded by Covid-19-affected areas from all sides, the block has not reported a single case till now. Health department officials say they have collected more than 200 samples in the block after contact tracing and random sampling, while municipal and police officers say they have managed to restrict interdistrict and interstate movements. The Gurugram district is made up of four blocks, namely Gurugram, Pataudi, Sohna and Farukkhnagar. The two blocks, Gurugram and Pataudi, are adjoining Farukkhnagar. While Gurugram city has reported 160 Covid-19 cases, Pataudi has seven cases till now. Other bordering districts, such as Jhajjar has 87 cases, while Rewari has six cases.“We have been vigilant even before the lockdown was announced,” said Dr Aruna Sangwan, senior medical officer, Farrukhnagar. “We have conducted testing of more than 200 people after contact tracing and random sampling. Compared to Gurugram, the population in Farruknagar is less and most people live in the rural areas,” said Sangwan. The block has a population of over 66,000 people, with 24,000 residing in urban areas and the remaining 42,000 in 26 villages. Recently, there were cases of infected people visiting the block A lab technician, who worked at Sohna and lived in Farrukhnagar, tested positive for Covid-19. According to the health team, all his immediate contacts tested negative. Sangwan and her team has been coordinating with the urban local body(ULB) and the village committees since the beginning when cases were reported in Gurugram city. “We continue to hold meetings with village committees, asking them to restrict movement. Many of them used to visit Delhi and Jhajjar to supply milk. We asked them to restrict their movement. It is now controlled as people are aware. But we keep on conducting random sampling,” said Dr Sangwan. The health team has been running mobile OPDs in Haryana Roadways buses to reach out to people in villages. Dr Rajpal Nain of the mobile team, said, “It is the harvest season due to which farmers experience allergies or flu-like symptoms. During our visit, we find people inquiring about these symptoms. They often think it is Covid-19. We explain them about the disease and, if necessary, take their sample.” Restricting movement KK Yadav, secretary (administrative head), municipal committee, Farrukhnagar, said, “Throughout the lockdown the municipality has put its own barricading at the vulnerable points, such as the roads connecting different districts or blocks. Even the roads to the congested parts of the city has been barricaded allowing only two-wheelers and pedestrians.” He said that after the relaxation in the lockdown after May 3, they have been taking extra precautions. “Barber shops and salons have been asked to maintain a record of their customers that is being checked by municipal employees,” said Yadav adding that they have been doing regular review meeting and flag marches in urban areas. His team of 35 people have been doing sanitisation in cowsheds and temples.Procurement in rural areasIn the rural areas, on the other hand, procurement of wheat and mustard is underway. For the first time, the Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board (HSAMB) had set up five separate mandis(markets) for the procurement of wheat. Apart from the main Farrukhnagar market, where mustard procurement is taking place, small mandis have been set up in schools, stadiums and community centres.“It is for the first time, these small mandis at almost 7 kilometres distance from the main mandi, have been set up to procure wheat from the farmers. Each mandi allows only 50 farmers to drop their produce. Only 10 farmers are allowed at a time in order to maintain social distancing,” said Mohan Jowel, executive officer, HSAMB, Farrukhnagar. According to Jowel, police personnel help in ensuring that the rules are not violated. “Police and our teams explained farmers about using masks and maintaining social distancing. There are some elements in villages who are not willing to understand the situation. The police helped us in dealing with those people,” he said. Strict actionAccording to Savit Kumar, station house officer(SHO), Farrukhnagar, FIR has been lodged against at least 20 people for crossing the borders or for opening shops. “We have been following the district administration guidelines, allowing movement from 7am to 7pm. But on crucial borders, we are not allowing people without movement passes. Five police teams have been deployed to check the registers maintained at the nakas (check posts), recording the in and out movement of people,” said Kumar. Theekri Pehr, a kind of patrolling done by villagers, was initially carried out in all the villages. “Now, it has been discontinued after meeting with the village heads. They are being done only in the villages on the border areas,” said Kumar. With the ease in restriction, officials are now worried of the spread of infection. According to them, they are only creating awareness regarding social distancing and using masks, asking people to restrict interdistrict movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/farrukhnagar-keeps-covid-at-bay-through-restrictions-and-social-distancing/story-X6WvksUkHNHPfGA6dwpt8N.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||No new Covid-19 case in Chandigarh after three weeks, PGI sends six patients home, most in a day||No new Covid-19 case was reported in the city for the first time in the last three weeks on Thursday, with six more recoveries, the highest ever, bringing down the number of active cases to 151 with the total count at 191.The number includes 37 patients discharged from hospitals and three fatalities. RECOVERY RATE IMPROVES, UP 19.3%With this, the recovery rate of the city has improved by over three percentage points in the one last week from 16.2% on May 7 to 19.3% on May 14. Chandigarh, which appeared to be doing well on April 23 with a recovery rate of 51%, which was more than double the national average, registered a fall to 16.2% exactly two weeks later on May 7 because of a spike reported mainly from Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26. Over 122 persons have been infected there with one fatality reported.Thursday also marked the highest number of recoveries in a single day. Six patients cured at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) included three women aged 55, 35 and 23 years, one man aged 62 years, all from the Sector 30 cluster. Of the two other men, one aged 32 was from Bapu Dham Colony and the other, a healthcare worker with PGIMER, from Mullanpur, Punjab.On the growth trajectory of recoveries, Dr Jagat Ram, PGIMER director, said, “It is a positive indicator that our recovery rate is consistently increasing and is comparable to the best in the country… Tremendous efforts by the PGIMER team are paying rich dividends.”PEAK YET TO COME: DR JAGAT RAMAdding a note of caution, however, he added, “We have to learn to live with the virus. The peak is yet to come in June and July and after that as well, so it may take long to go. Social distancing, hand washing, wearing masks and avoiding crowds should become a way of life.”The six patients discharged on Thursday were visibly moved as they walked out of the hospital, some close to tears while expressing gratitude to the hospital’s Covid-19 team.“I can vouch after my experience as a patient here that the PGIMER team is far ahead of others in its commitment towards patient care and compassion for patients. I am going home grateful and indebted,” said the hospital’s healthcare worker.All the patients discharged will be home quarantined for 14 days as per standard protocols to be followed by all Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-new-covid-19-case-in-chandigarh-after-three-weeks-highest-recoveries-a-day-at-6/story-1lQojlOkiujkmwcQ5B4GKL.html
15-05-2020||Noida||Around 55,000 migrants to be sent back to Bihar in special trains||The Gautam Budh Nagar administration has started the process of sending back around 55,000 migrant workers from Bihar, who have been stuck in the district since the nationwide lockdown was announced and train services suspended by Indian Railways. Officials said that by Thursday night, more than 50,000 migrant workers had registered themselves and the district administration was arranging trains to send them back home.According to officials, the district has over 1.25 lakh migrant labourers who want to go back to their respective home states.The Uttar Pradesh chief minister’s office has also started a helpline number (1076) where the migrants can register their complaints and their grievances will be immediately addressed, said additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi in a press conference in Lucknow on Thursday. The first batch of migrant workers is from Bihar will be sent back home on special trains arranged for them. It is expected that these trains will start leaving in a day or two. GB Nagar administration officials are in touch with officials in Bihar to make appropriate arrangements for the all the workers. Migrant workers who have registered themselves to go back to their respective home states have to fill up a form with their contact details at the local police stations in GB Nagar. Officials then verify the form and send a message on the mobile phone numbers of these labourers. These messages will act as ticket to board the train. The person will have to show the message on their phone to the officers at the railway station.According to senior administration officials, the target is to send back all the migrant workers home in the next 10 days.“We have got applications from over 50,000 migrant workers from Bihar, who will be sent back home on special trains. We have already got permission for the trains. We are collecting applications to prepare a final list of people who will be going back. Our procedure has already started and we are in touch with the home states of these these workers. The first batch to Bihar will leave in a day or two,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, GB Nagar.Migrant workers will be carried in buses to the railway station. Officials said that authorities in Bihar are making arrangements for these people to be tested on arrival. The workers will then be either sent to quarantine or allowed to proceed to their respective villages. So far, officials have already sent over 1,000 migrant homeless people from shelter homes to their respective districts in the state. District administration is also getting in touch with other states to arrange travel facilities for migrant workers who want to go back home.GB Nagar district magistrate and all concerned officials are holding multiple meetings to plan out the strategy to send these workers back and a final strategy is expected to be in place by Thursday night.Two new COVID-19 casesMeanwhile, two more people tested positive for Covid-19 n the district bringing the total number of cases in Gautam Budh Nagar to 238. The new patients include a 35-year-old CRPF personnel from the camp in Surajpur, Greater Noida. This is the second case of a CRPF trooper testing Covid positive in the district. On April 24, a 35-year-old CRPF jawan from Delhi’s Mayur Vihar Phase was found positive after he got himself checked for Covid-19 at Prayag Hospital in Sector 41 of Noida. The hospital has a tie-up with the CRPF. The other patient who tested positive on Thursday is a 19-year-old woman from sector 8 of Noida.By Thursday night, the health department collected a total of 4,492 samples. Currently, there are 76 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Around 505 persons are under institutional quarantine with 159 patients having been discharged after completing their treatment successfully. Containment zone de-sealingContainment zones in the district will now be de-sealed after 21 days from the date of sampling of latest positive case. Previously, the period of keeping the containment area sealed was 28 days. District magistrate Suhas LY informed that after consulting with the state government, sealing of all the containment zones that had completed 21 days had been removed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/around-55-000-migrants-to-be-sent-back-to-bihar-in-special-trains/story-Ff3HzNsHCASLfadB4yjvZL.html
15-05-2020||Noida||Meagre meals and no ration force migrant workers to beg for food||Nirmala Devi, a migrant worker who lives in a jhuggi in Sector 43, Noida, holds on to her toddler as she turns her hopeful eyes towards people walking away from the counter of a Sector 41 liquor store. She feels uncomfortable stretching her hand out to them, but the biting reality of hunger and the toddler hanging onto her make her beg. Nirmala Devi, a daily wager, who along with her husband, a construction worker, hails from a village in Patna has had no earnings since the lockdown was announced on March 24; she also has no ration card and the meals supplied by the community kitchen are insufficient for her and her family. Begging, she says, is the only option left. “I could somehow manage with the meals from the community kitchen, but not my child. She cries at night, hungry for milk that we have no money to buy. For the past few weeks, I am surviving on the mercy of others. People give us money; some buy me food or milk. I never imagined that I will have to stand and beg in this city,” she says.“The meals from the community kitchen are often irregular -- sometimes the distributors don’t bring the food or it is not enough for everyone. We did try to walk back home to Patna, but the police caught us from near Sector 50 and sent us back,” she said.Meanwhile, a man buys two packets of milk and a biscuit pack from a neighbouring store and hand them to her. She humbly accepts them with folded hands, keeps the milk in a sack and gives the biscuits to her daughter.Asked if she owns an Aadhaar card, Jan Dhan account or a ration card, she said, “I received no money in my Jan Dhan account and despite giving our name for a ration card, we have neither received the card nor the ration. The last ration I received was in March -- about half a kilo of dal, five kilos of rice and atta, potatoes, oil and a few packets of spices,” Nirmala Devi said.There are many like her across the city. A number of migrants are forced to beg for food, and are living on the mercy of people out shopping for rations and other items.Nine-year old Muskaan and her six-year-old sister were among those looking to the goodness of others to survive. Standing in front of a super store in Sector 76, all Muskaan and her sister beg from high-rise dwellers of sectors 77 and 76 is little bit of rice or flour or some milk. Her family migrated from West Bengal to Noida and were working as daily wagers, but that stopped when the lockdown was clamped.“Our mother goes to get meals from the Bhangel community kitchen, and we come here to get whatever help we can get,” Muskaan said.Ram Swaroop, another migrant from Bihar who lives in the slums of Sector 16, said, “The last earning I got was ₹450, a day before Holi (March 9), when a contractor took me and a few others to clean a vacant plot of bushes and garbage. There had been no work since then. The food van comes here, but sometimes they stop, sometimes they don’t. I have family to feed, what option do I have other than begging?”Despite the tall claims of the district administration, ration and community kitchen meals are still not reaching those that need them the most. But officials insist that it is reaching the poor.“There has been no changes in the meals we are supplying since Day One of lockdown. We try to reach as many people as we can. When we get calls from people that food is not being delivered in their areas, we direct the distribution teams to ensure that they cover those areas as well,” Vir Singh, tehsildar and in-charge of city’s largest community kitchen at Mamura, said. The kitchen dispatches meals to over 17,000 people daily.While there are no official number available as to how many poor migrants live in the city, a rough estimation puts their number at 1 lakh -- based on the number of meals being distributed through the community kitchens. Around one lakh to 1,00,436 meals are distributed through 16 community kitchens, officials said.Stating that meals are served twice a day – without exceptions—Singh said the main aim is to ensure that the supplies don’t run out.“It’s wrong to say that meal deliveries are sometimes skipped. One day we ran out of rice, so before it could reach us through official channels, I put in ₹50,000 from my pocket and sent the workers to buy the rice to ensure that meals are not skipped,” he said.Officials attribute faulty deliveries to the difficulties of serving a large population.“There could be some exceptions and maybe, on occasion, people missed their meals, but we ensure that the meals dispatched from community kitchen reach everyone. Social workers, too, help us ensure that food reaches everyone,” Rajiv Mohan Saxena, who heads the Harola community kitchen, said. It distributes food to over 14,000 people daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/meagre-meals-and-no-ration-force-migrant-workers-to-beg-for-food/story-yhw5o4x5Y8p1slmp1Wd0sI.html
15-05-2020||Gurugram||Three arrested for illegally ferrying migrant workers||Two men from Mehrauli-Gurgaon (MG) road and a man from CRPF road were arrested in separate cases for allegedly trying to ferry migrant workers to other states without carrying movement passes, police said on Thursday.In the first case, police identified the suspects as Satpal Singh and Paramjeet Singh, both are from Delhi. Singh owns a private bus, and Satpal works as his driver. The two suspects were looking for passengers on MG road on Thursday and wanted to take them to Jharkhand, the police said.Ajit Singh, sub-inspector (SI), Sector 14 police station, said, “A police officer saw the suspects looking for passengers. When the policeman asked the suspects if they had a movement pass, the men replied they did not. Both of them were arrested at the spot.”A case was registered against both the two under sections 188 and 269 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Sector 14 police station on Thursday.In the second case, the police identified the arrested man as Rohit (single name), who is a from Nuh. He had reportedly come to Gurugram from Uttar Pradesh in his canter truck to drop off a banana shipment. The police said while returning to Uttar Pradesh, Rohit was ferrying migrant workers in the cargo space of the canter truck.Mukesh, head constable (HC), Sector 14 police station, said, “The canter truck driver came to Gurugram to drop off bananas from Uttar Pradesh. In order to make some extra money, the suspect decided to ferry some passengers to Uttar Pradesh. We received a tip about the incident and stopped the canter truck on CRPF road. The passengers were able to flee the spot, but we were able to arrest the driver.”A case was registered against the suspect under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC at Sector 14 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/three-arrested-for-illegally-ferrying-migrant-workers/story-WNLAcKkz3zS845B0V0bqPL.html
15-05-2020||Delhi||Biggest single-day spike as Delhi Covid-19 cases cross 8,000||New Delhi: Delhi saw its highest single-day spike in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases so far, with 472 recorded on Thursday. The surge takes the city’s Covid-19 tally to 8,470, according to Delhi’s daily health bulletin. Before this, the highest number of cases recorded in a single day was 448, on May 7.Delhi breached the highest single-day spike in case numbers for the fourth time in May on Thursday. From just over 3,500 Covid-19 cases recorded till April-end, the numbers have shot up with nearly 4,500 cases being recorded in the city in just 14 days.With lockdown curbs being relaxed after May 3 , when its second phase ended, and further easing expected after May 17, experts said they expected the number of cases to rise even further.“The numbers will go up as more people move about. Even the lockdown has not been very effective in curtailing the spread of the infection in congested areas. If you see the slums or redevelopment colonies, there are several people living in one room. They will step out in the summers. The chance of spread owing to the use of community toilets is very high as well,” the official added.Health care workers and patients going to hospitals continue to be another group at a higher risk of infection. “There are several health care workers and patients and their families who have visited the hospitals who are testing positive. This is still a major concern in the city,” said another district official on condition of anonymity.At least 500 health care workers in Delhi have tested positive for Covid-19 so far.Nine deaths recordedNine more deaths have been added to Delhi’s cumulative Covid-19 toll, taking the total to 115, according to the daily health bulletin released by the Delhi government. However, none of these were recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the report.The revised toll still puts the city’s mortality rate at 1.3%.A three-member death audit committee has been reviewing case sheets and death summaries, and adding the numbers to the daily report.A discrepancy in the number of deaths recorded in the daily bulletin and those reported from individual hospitals was highlighted last week, after which the government instituted new standard operating procedures (SoP) for dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, asking them to report their deaths by 5pm each day or face action.The government has also removed a hospital-wise break-up of deaths from its bulletin. “The committee is working on clearing the backlog of cases within this week, after which there shouldn’t be an unusual spike in the number of deaths. The new SoP has certainly helped in speeding up the process,” said a senior official from the Delhi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/biggest-single-day-spike-as-delhi-covid-cases-cross-8-000/story-5db5akpH7KnZIoZChnBdXL.html
15-05-2020||Delhi||HC tells Delhi govt to take call on online sale, home delivery of liquor by May 15||The Delhi High Court has asked the Delhi government to decide on the online sale and home delivery of liquor in the national capital by May 15. The Delhi government assured the court that it would decide by the mandated date.A bench of justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Sangita Dhingra Sehgal was hearing a plea by a 21-year-old law student, Aadhaar Gaur, who had sought a ban on the sale of liquor in the city. He had challenged the May 3 notification of the Delhi government, which had permitted the sale of liquor.On Wednesday, during the hearing, the Centre informed the bench that several states had started the online sale of alcohol. Gaur submitted that the petition was not maintainable and that a similar matter had been dismissed by the Supreme Court of India.The Delhi government’s counsel submitted that the sale of liquor was a matter of public policy and it was for the state to make a decision. The court sought to know from him as to what decision had been taken pursuant to the May 11 order of the HC, where it had directed both the Centre and the Delhi government to decide on the online sale of delivery at the earliest.The Delhi government counsel assured the court that the decision by the government would definitely be taken on or before May 15.Following such submissions, the court refused to pass an order and said that all the contentions of the petitioner had already been heard and considered.“Having considered the contentions of the counsel for the petitioner, we do not find any need or case made out to take a different view than that taken in the order dated May 11. Though the counsel for the petitioner contends that the submissions as made by him today were not considered on May 11 but all the said factors were considered and debated during the hearing, though may not be recorded in the order since the Supreme Court had to make a decision; only constructive suggestions which could help the GNCTD in taking a decision were recorded in the order aforesaid.“This petition is also thus liable to be dismissed and is dismissed but binding the GNCTD to take a decision as assured,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-tells-delhi-govt-to-take-call-on-the-online-sale-and-home-delivery-of-liquor-by-may-15/story-jQgUO6fJaN23L7Io83zqxM.html
15-05-2020||Delhi||Essential service providers to be given smooth passage: Haryana to Delhi HC||The Haryana government has given an undertaking before the Delhi High Court that it would issue e-passes for inter state movement of all those engaged in providing essential services, including medical professionals within 30 minutes of receipt of application. Each e-pass shall be valid for the entire duration of the lockdown and could be used for multiple visits, the state government told the high court.The submission was made during the hearing of public interest litigation (PIL) by OP Gupta who had moved the court against blanket restriction on movement of people from Delhi to Sonepat were put in place to curb rising coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. Severe restrictions were also put in place at the Delhi-Gurugram border by the Haryana government after it claimed that several cases in Gurugram had their root in Delhi. The curbs on movement of people involved in essential services have now been eased. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicA bench of justices Manmohan and Sanjeev Narula said that essential service providers shall not be quarantined unless and until they test positive for Covid-19 or are found in contact with a patient. The bench told Haryana additional advocate general (AAG) Anil Grover that the state government was bound by the undertaking it had given to the court to allow the unhindered movement of essential service providers with e-passes.The state government had claimed that since about 56% of the coronavirus cases in the national capital region (NCR) districts — Gurugram, Faridabad, Jhajjar and Sonepat — had Delhi connections, it will allow back and forth movement of medical professionals from Delhi only on production of movement passes.Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayTaking up the PIL, the HC had on May 8 said that orders of the Sonepat district magistrate (DM) restraining the movement of doctors, nurses, court officials and trucks from Delhi to Sonepat constituted an infringement of the constitutional provisions. The ministry of home affairs (MHA) had on May 11 asked the states to ensure that interstate movement of medical professionals, nurses, paramedics should be facilitated. The directions came after the issue of restrictions being imposed by some states, including Haryana, was flagged during a meeting between the cabinet secretary and state governments last Sunday.Grover also told the court that the free movement of trucks carrying both essential as well as non-essential goods between Delhi and Haryana (except to and from containment zones) as well as transiting through Haryana shall be allowed.Also Read: Biggest single-day spike as Delhi Covid cases cross 8,000He assured the high court that the Delhi-Haryana border is open and the roads near the border have not been dug up, adding that the state border would be kept open.The petitioner had claimed that even doctors, nurses and court officials who either reside in Sonepat or work there are being prevented from entering or leaving the city.Following the submission by the Haryana government, the HC bench disposed of the plea. Dr Harish Gupta, member of the Delhi Medical Association (DMA)and National Medical council (NMC), said that the order was necessary because several doctors and nurses serving in Delhi live in Gurugram.“Many doctors, both in the government and private sector, were facing problems since their houses were in Gurugram. Around 100 doctors from the Safdarjund Hospital also reside in Gurugram and were finding it difficult to commute because of the restrictions.“So, it was very much required as you cannot stop healthcare workers from performing their duties,”he said.The Delhi government also welcomed the undertaking by its Haryana counterpart.“We are glad that the Haryana government has agreed to ensure the unhindered movement of essential staff, for which we were appealing from Day One. Stopping their movement was a violation of the Centre’s orders. This is the time to work together as a nation and fully support our Corona Warriors,” a Delhi government statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/essential-service-providers-to-be-given-smooth-passage-haryana-to-hc/story-f8ncSgH1xmMKSqgPLRMLSN.html
15-05-2020||Delhi||Rohini Jail inmate 1st prisoner to test positive for Covid-19 in Delhi||A day after a Rohini Jail inmate,who was sent to a government hospital for a routine surgery tested positive for Covid-19, as many as 19 prisoners were quarantined and tested on Thursday for the Sars-Cov-2 infection, jail officers said. The 29-year-old prisoner was admitted for a surgery at the Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) hospital on Sunday. Doctors had tested him for the virus on Monday. Jail officers said that the hospital informed the prison department on Wednesday about the inmate’s test results. The prisoner has been shifted to the Covid-19 speciality Lok Nayak hospital. Prison officials said the inmate was asymptomatic and was brought to the prison in December last year in connection with a robbery case. Additional inspector general, Raj Kumar of Tihar prisons said, “19 prisoners in Rohini district jail, with whom he (29-year-old prisoner) was in contact during his prison stay have been tested. They did not show any symptoms but we have still isolated them as a precaution. The prisoner, who tested positive, is not a new prisoner. He was in prison for 4-5 months. Along with the 19 prisoners, some jails officials and a few doctors who had interacted with him have also been tested. The result is awaited.”This is the first case of a prisoner in Delhi testing positive for the coronavirus disease. Officials said that all superintendents of Tihar jail, which houses around 15,000 prisoners, is already on high alert. Rohini jail is a smaller complex compared to Tihar and houses around 2,500 prisoners. Tihar Jail officials are on high alert after reports of the disease spreading rapidly in Mumbai’s Arthur Road jail. In Mumbai’s Arthur Road jail where 4,000 prisoners are lodged, within a week of one prisoner contracting the virus, the infection had affected 184 prisoners and prison staff. It also prompted the Maharashtra to look at releasing half the prisoners in its jails to contain the spread of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rohini-jail-inmate-1st-prisoner-to-test-ve-in-delhi/story-tHD03MqTP1vryEW6rIhORN.html
15-05-2020||Delhi||CISF to video-record boarding passes, no stamping to avoid contact||The boarding passes of passengers flying out of Delhi airport, once flight operations resume, will be video recorded instead of being stamped by the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), a spokesperson said on Thursday. Senior officers said officers deployed to screen passengers will be given a webcam each to record their boarding passes. The webcam recording will be synchronised with the CCTV camera footage of the security hold area (SHA) making it easy for the security personnel to track any passenger later if need be, the officers said.The new method has been adopted following one of the directions from the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) issued Wednesday, asking CISF, the force that secures the airport, to stop stamping the boarding passes as a measure to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know today“Our men who are stationed at the security check area, with a stamp, will now be given a webcam each. They’ll record every boarding pass. This is to ensure zero direct contact between passengers and our officers. The recordings will be collected as a database and can be used whenever required,” a senior officer from the airport, who wished not to be named, said.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe officer said that the new method shall cause no additional delay. “However, we are yet to get results. Stamping of boarding passes did not take time and we hope recording, which will only take a few seconds, will also not take much time,” the officer added.In one of its earlier orders, dated March 19, the BCAS had said, “It is learnt that one of the most common methods of transmission of Covid-19 seems to be through infected surfaces. It is, therefore, desirable to avoid touching surfaces that might be infected due to human touch.”Also Read: Rs 2L-crore concessional credit offer to 25 million farmersIn the same order issued Wednesday BCAS said passengers are being advised to use hand sanitiser frequently while travelling during the Covid-19 pandemic. After the orders were given, it was also decided to allow passengers to carry sanitiser up to a limit of 350ml in their handbag.Indira Gandhi International airport, like other airports in the country, is yet to start passenger flights. All domestic flights in the country were suspended March 25 onwards, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19. However, repatriation flights, medical evacuation flights and cargo flights have been allowed to operate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cisf-to-video-record-boarding-passes-no-stamping-to-avoid-contact/story-RbOkVYhnk7cn9KmH25AsLL.html
15-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s IGI Airport customs seizes illegal shipments of medical gear||Customs at the Delhi airport, on Wednesday night, seized multiple shipments containing over 500,000 masks, 950 bottles of sanitiser and 952 Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits that were set to be illegally exported to the United States of America, United Kingdom, United Arab Emirates and China.Senior officers said the consignments were misdeclared as fabrics and plastic raw material, to avoid suspicion. An investigation has revealed that these goods were sourced from traders in Delhi, Haryana and Punjab.According to senior customs officials, as per the guidelines of Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT), these goods are, at present, prohibited for export because of the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.“Late Wednesday evening, following a tip-off, we checked an identified consignment scheduled to be sent to China and found 5.08 lakh (508,000) face masks packed in it. The packet had been misdeclared as plastic pouches. Following another tip, when we checked a series of parcels in the courier section of the Delhi airport’s cargo area, we found other parcels that had been declared as fabrics too. When opened, 950 bottles of sanitisers, containing 57 litres in all, and 952 PPE kits were recovered. These were scheduled to depart for the USA, UK and UAE,” said a senior customs official, who wished not to be named.The officer said further investigation is underway to track the source of these consignments. “Our information suggests that these items were sourced from traders and dealers in Delhi, Haryana and Punjab,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-customs-halts-illegal-export-of-protective-gear-sanitisers/story-t7TONtrHn3qSg8HqewTSyO.html
15-05-2020||Delhi||Two test Covid-19 positive in Ghazipur mandi, market shut for two days||The Delhi government on Thursday closed the Ghazipur fruit and vegetable wholesale market for two days after two officials of the market committee tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Officials at the wholesale market said the closure was necessary to sanitise the market and control the spread of the disease.SP Gupta, chairman of the Ghazipur Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC), said the market will remain closed for trading activities on Thursday and Friday.“The deputy secretary and secretary of the market management committee tested positive for Covid-19 over Tuesday and Wednesday. We closed our office as soon as we came to know about the first case on Tuesday,” Gupta said.Around 10 officials of the market committee have been in direct contact with the two Covid-19 patients. “All are in home quarantine and their samples will be taken on Friday for testing,” he said.Ghazipur Mandi is the second-largest wholesale vegetable and fruit market in the city, after Azadpur. The Ghazipur wholesale market is spread over one square kilometre area and receives around 400 trucks a day. The wholesale market every day gets around 1,300 tonnes of vegetables and fruits supply. Ghazipur market caters to the fruit and vegetable supply to East Delhi markets as well to Noida and Ghaziabad markets.Ashok Kheda, a wholesale trader in Ghazipur market, said it was a “wise” decision to completely shut the market, otherwise the situation could turn worse.“Wholesale markets are vulnerable to the spread of coronavirus disease because of crowding. This is the first time that Covid-19 cases have been reported here. Closing the market for two days will surely have some impact on vegetable and fruit supplies in the eastern parts of the city but it is necessary for the greater good of the public,” he said.A senior district administration official, who wished not to be named, said the exercise of spraying of disinfectant in the market has begun and would be completed by Friday evening. “Contact tracing of the two patients is underway and testing of those who had come in contact with them will be conducted on Friday. I’m hopeful that the market will start functioning smoothly from Saturday,” the official said.This is not the first time that Covid-19 cases have been reported from Delhi’s wholesale markets.On April 24, a total of 300 shops were closed at Azadpur APMC, Asia’s biggest vegetable and fruit market, after the death of a trader who tested positive for Covid-19. So far, 18 Covid-19 have been reported from the Azadpur wholesale market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-test-covid-19-positive-in-ghazipur-mandi-market-shut-for-two-days/story-DwONz5Zs8qQS7eesAG0AhN.html
15-05-2020||Delhi||Transpersons in Delhi shelter homes tackle abuse, prejudice||At 11 pm on Tuesday, Delhi police officials brought two transwomen, Meenal and Preeti — both of whom go by one name — to a government shelter home for both men and women located in Old Delhi’s Delhi Gate area. However, within hours, the two had to make other arrangements to leave after an argument broke out between the other occupants, reportedly angered by the admission of the transwomen, and shelter home employees.“We stayed there for a few hours and we were given some food and water. But when some residents started arguing with officials in the shelter home, we decided to leave. We did not want to cause any trouble and stay in a place where our own safety is at risk,” Preeti said. The duo is now housed with a non-governmental organization in the locality.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicSuch complaints of discrimination by occupants of shelter homes is not new, social activists working with the transgender community in the city said.Ever since the lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in March to control the spread of the infectious Covid-19 disease, the sources of income of many members of the transgender community such as sex work, begging, and ‘mangti’ — a traditional occupation during weddings and other celebrations — have dried up.“The transgender community has been hit hard by the pandemic. Many are either sex workers or used to ask for money in traffic junctions and that has stopped now. We have received some complaints that the occupants of some shelter homes objected to sharing space with transgender persons,” said Sumukhi Deka, a Delhi-based activist.Deka said that Saransh, an organization she has co-founded, has accommodated three transgender women who faced trouble in a shelter home in east Delhi. They faced threats and were subjected to physical violence by other occupants due to which they left. Also Read: ‘Govt left migrants to mercy of God’: CongressLast week, a similar incident was reported from west Delhi’s Rohini, where a transgender woman was asked to vacate a shelter home by its residents. Though the officials intervened and attempted to resolve the matter, the transperson left the following morning and the shelter home is currently unaware of her whereabouts. Sunil Kumar Aledia, the national convener at National Forum for Homeless Housing Rights (NFHHR) said that aim of shelter homes is to ensure that occupants are safe and provided with a comfortable facility, however, unless there is awareness of issues pertaining to gender dysphoria, the stigmatization against transpersons will continue to pose problems for them.“We had rescued four transgender persons a few days ago from near the New Delhi railway station and after spending a night at the shelter home, the District Magistrate made alternative arrangements for them,” Aledia said. The four had tickets for Gujarat dated May 15. “Since that shelter home was only for men and we had no other option but to make some arrangement for the night, our volunteers stood at the gate all night to ensure that they were safe. The next morning we moved them to our office in south Delhi and they will board the train to Surat on Friday. There are no dedicated shelter facilities for transgender persons and we have raised this issue multiple times with the government,” Aledia said.A senior official of the district administration said that transgender persons are usually relocated with NGOs to ensure their safety.Also Read: Street vendors to get loans of up to Rs 10,000“We want to ensure that these people are safe. Many occupants in homeless facilities have a limited understanding [of issues pertaining to transgender communities]. To prevent any physical and sexual crime against transgender persons, it is important that they be moved to alternative facilities,” the official said.Rudrani Chettri, who spearheads trans rights group Mitr Trust said that the community is severely affected by the pandemic. “We have been distributing food packets and groceries to homeless transgender persons who have no means to earn for themselves now. But they are not receiving any benefit from the government. Many don’t have ration cards and government documents,” Chettri said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/transpersons-in-delhi-shelter-homes-tackle-abuse-prejudice/story-nIZt1ZqMBgJue5EuxdisDI.html
15-05-2020||Delhi||Crowd pelts stones at shut ration centre in New Delhi’s Rohini, resident nabbed||A crowd of ration-seekers allegedly pelted stones on and tried to break open the gates of a North Delhi Municipal Corporation school — a temporary dry ration distribution centre — in Prem Nagar, Rohini, on Thursday morning. The police, however, said the incident was reported on May 7, following which they had arrested a local resident.Ramniwas Solanki, the general secretary of the MCD Teachers’ Union, said that the crowd of around 500 became agitated after finding the gate of the school closed. Solanki claimed that the school was locked following a Delhi government order that said all schools turned into ration centres will remain shut on Thursday.Also Read: Indian Covid-19 vaccine development to be backed by PM-CARES“It was declared a ‘Closing Day’ on which no ration will be distributed and we (teachers) were required to take stock of how much ration has been received from godowns and how much of it had been distributed in the last one month and send reports to the Delhi government,” Solanki said.Around 1,000 Delhi government and corporation schools have been functioning as ‘Hunger Relief (food distribution) Centres’ and ‘Ration Centres’ since April to provide relief for people during the nationwide lockdown. More than 40,000 Delhi government teachers have been engaged on ration distribution duty. The hunger centres open at 8am and close by 6pm, daily.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicRice and wheat flour are part of a standard ration kit that are being distributed .“We had already put up boards outside the school gates announcing that no ration will be distributed on Thursday. However, the crowd that turned up in the morning wasn’t ready to go back empty-handed. First, the men abused us. They then started pelting stones and broke a classroom’s window. We had to hide some of our female colleagues and call the police for help,” said Bharat Lal Meena, principal of the Nagar Nigam Prathmik Bal Vidyalaya, Prem Nagar, Rohini Zone.Also Read: Delhi finalises lockdown 4.0 plansReacting to the incident, north corporation commissioner, Varsha Joshi, said, “We are writing to the Food Supply and Consumer Affairs (FCS) department of Delhi Government on the subject. The concerned deputy commissioners and additional directors of education (of the corporation) have regularly raked up the issues being faced by teachers on duty, but to no avail. These issues have been cropping up due to non-availability of a proper list or non-availability of ration.”“Our DCs and ADEs have been writing to concerned district magistrates regularly requesting for more police presence at these centres. Our additional commissioner (education) has also written to the secretary FCS today,” she said.A senior government official said, “The food and civil supplies department has taken cognizance of the matter and the issue will be resolved at the earliest. This month around 2.5 million individuals, who do not possess ration cards, have availed essentials under the special scheme. Ration is distributed to all centres from central storehouses in every district. The demand and supply across all centres is taken into account.”Deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pramod Kumar Mishra, however, claimed that the incident was reported on May 7 but the video of stone pelting was circulated on social media on Thursday.“There was a local resident of Prem Nagar Phase III, Lal Kishan, who was forced to return home without ration for two days. On third day, after again not managing to get ration, he got agitated, picked up some stones from nearby railway tracks and started throwing them at the school building. Seeing him, some other agitated locals also joined in,” the DCP said.Mishra said that the police was informed by the locals and they arrested Kishan. “We dispersed the crowd and Kishan was put under preventive custody. He was released on bail the next day. There was no official complaint from any authority,” the DCP said.A similar incident had taken place on Monday in Tigri in a South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) school, where six female teachers were allegedly manhandled by a crowd of ration seekers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/crowd-pelts-shut-ration-centre-with-stones-tries-to-break-open-gate/story-JjSCMMtmHlJ5xRWqPmbIxI.html
15-05-2020||Noida||A day after furore, UP panel to review fares for travel to, from Delhi airport||The Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) on Thursday formed a three-member committee to review its chartered taxi and bus fare structures proposed to ferry commuters from the India Gandhi International Airport to Noida, Ghaziabad and other districts of Uttar Pradesh.The corporation’s managing director Raj Shekhar said the committee comprises senior officials from the department of operation, technical and regional transport authority. “They will look into the matter and submit recommendations in 24 hours. UPSRTC will introduce some changes in the fare structure,” he said.Several people had criticised UPSRTC, saying the exorbitant fare would burden those already suffering during the lockdown. On May 9, the state transport corporation had issued a letter to its regional managers in Noida and Ghaziabad stating that booking a sedan for up to 250km from the airport would cost Rs 10,000. Each additional kilometre would cost Rs 40. Booking an SUV would cost Rs 12,000 for first 250km and Rs 50 for each additional kilometre. Similarly, a single seat in a non air-conditioned bus would cost Rs 1,000 and a seat in an air-conditioned bus would cost Rs 1,320 for 100km. The charges would double for a distance between 101km and 200km.Since Noida and Ghaziabad share a border with the national Capital, paying such a huge fare was termed irrational by several residents, who also tweeted about the matter.The corporation’s managing director clarified that the services were not limited to just Noida and Ghaziabad. He said that people could book a cab for an entire day and travel to any district in UP. “People can book a taxi from the airport for an entire day and travel to different districts like Bareilly, Moradabad, Meerut, etc. The taxi drivers will bring empty vehicles and they can’t book or lift commuters on return. The commuters need not share the ride with others, unlike other taxi services,” he said.He said that at present, people from abroad are quarantined in Delhi. “We have engaged some buses to ferry them from the airport to hotels. We have not charged them until now,” he said.UPSRTC, in a press statement, said, “We received information from different sources that the UPSRTC’s proposed chartered taxi and bus fare is high. Taking cognisance of the matter, we formed a committee. We resolve to facilitate the safe journey of commuters.”The corporation is yet to start this chartered bus and taxi service from the airport as most people brought back to India via the Vande Bharat Mission are quarantined in Delhi.Shekhar added that UPSRTC is reviewing its order, especially pertaining to the Noida, Ghaziabad commute to and from Delhi. “We will introduce some changes in the fare structure once we receive the recommendation from the committee,” he said.UPSRTC runs over 10,000 buses, while it has a few taxis in each district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/upsrtc-forms-three-member-committee-to-review-taxi-bus-fare-structure-after-facing-criticism/story-qJ0Q4Wk4zhpIXmK2CyxwhO.html
15-05-2020||Patna||1.16 lakh migrants reach state, highest single-day influx for Bihar||Bihar received the largest single-day influx of migrant workers Thursday when 1.16 lakh people reached the state through special trains and buses arranged for them from different parts of India.“Around 50,910 migrant workers were scheduled to arrive by 34 special trains Thursday. Besides, another 65,306 came by 2,200 buses through the borders of Gopalganj and Kaimur,” said Anupam Kumar, Bihar’s information and public relations department secretary.Around 46,795 migrant workers were also scheduled to reach Bihar by 32 trains on Friday, he added. This meant that Bihar would receive around 1.60 lakh migrants from other states in 48 hours, beginning Thursday. Later in the evening, the railways said that 28 ‘Shramik special’ trains were scheduled to arrive Bihar on Friday. The trains scheduled for Friday were coming from Rewari, Tirunelveli, Narnaul, Bengaluru, Kolhapur, Chennai, Mumbai, Jaipur, Alwar, Patiala, Gurugram, Panipat, Anand Vihar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Delhi, Ghatkesar, Karmnasha, Chandigarh, Bhatinda and Surat. “We are working at maximum capacity to operate trains to get our migrant workers. It’s a big challenge for us, but we are equal to the task. As per the chief minister’s directive, we have to facilitate in the next seven days all those who want to come to the state either by trains or buses. We are planning more trains in the coming few days,” said Kumar.A total of 2.25 lakh migrant workers were staying at 4,671 block-level quarantine centres of Bihar to prevent them from going directly to their villages in an effort to contain the spread of the virus.Bihar had received 1.99 lakh migrant workers by 161 special trains amid lockdown 3.0, till May 13. Another 4 lakh migrants were scheduled to come by 267 additional trains. This figure, however, was provisional, said Kumar.Meanwhile, the Indian Railways crossed the milestone of transporting more than one million (10 lakh) passengers to their respective home states through Shramik Special trains in less than 15 days, said a railways communique, which was shared by Rajesh Kumar, chief public relations officer, East Central Railways.The railways had operated 800 Shramik Special trains across the country, including 195 to Bihar, till May 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/1-16-lakh-migrants-reach-state-highest-single-day-influx-for-bihar/story-4mFZV33vuSTQyBxbsQdoJL.html
15-05-2020||City||Ludhiana govt school student wins national-level quiz organised by Vigyan Prasar||Jiya Seth, a Class 12 student of Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Jawahar Nagar, Ludhiana, brought laurels to the district after she topped a national-level online competition organised by Xplore, Vigyan Prasar.As many as 537 students from 20 states participated in the quiz.The online quiz was held on National Technology Day, which falls on May 11, and its result was declared on May 13 by the department of science and technology under government of India. Her mentor, Anju Soni, a chemistry teacher at Government Senior Secondary School, Jawahar Nagar, also received a certificate of recognition from the authorities. She said, “As many as 11 students from our school participated in the quiz. Jiya is a brilliant student and I am glad that she won this competition. This will motivate the other students to keep participating in such contests, which will boost their morale.”“I participated in the quiz after my chemistry teacher motivated me. I prepared for it and read online regarding International Technology Day. The competition consisted of ten objective-type questions related to National Technology Day and I answered them all. I was not sure of one answer, but still attempted all the questions. This first prize came as a surprise and in these tough times, I feel it is an achievement,” said Seth.Jiya Seth is a medical stream student and a resident of Jawahar Nagar. She is fond of badminton and wants to become a dentist.District education officer (secondary) Swaranjit Kaur and principal Anita Bedi congratulated the meritorious student and her mentor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-govt-school-student-wins-national-level-quiz-organised-by-vigyan-prasar/story-tH1qknCHKpvWNwjPbFH9iI.html
15-05-2020||City||Migrant exodus: Pregnant woman trying to get home ends up in hospital||A three months pregnant migrant woman, who was returning to the native village at Mau District in Uttar Pradesh along with her seven-month-old daughter and husband, was rushed to the civil hospital after she suffered bleeding and labour pain at a migrant shelter in Guru Nanak Stadium. Amresh Morya,the woman’s husband, said, “We had to catch a train at noon. So we reached a migrant tent on Tajpur Road around 7.30am. Due to the huge rush, my wife had to remain standing at the tent for nearly three hours. Due to exhaustion, my wife began bleeding when we reached Guru Nanak Stadium.”She was rushed to the civil hospital where doctors said that though the bleeding has stopped, they will be conducting a few tests. “Tomorrow, ultrasound tests will be conducted to ascertain that whether the woman has suffered miscarriage or not,” Dr Hatinder Kaur, senior medical officer, Mother and Child Hospital, Civil Hospital. Amresh, who used to work at a garment manufacturing unit, said, “For over two months, I have been sitting at home. I have exhausted all my savings and now, I don’t have any money to pay the rent or buy milk for my child. So I decided to return and spend time with my family.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrant-exodus-pregnant-woman-trying-to-get-home-ends-up-in-hospital/story-x195zrB9PcGlpfEF1PZbxN.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||FIR against group celebrating return of cured Covid patient in Chandigarh||Police have registered a case against a mob of more than 25 people and also recommended departmental action against police officials patrolling in Ram Darbar Phase 2, after a video of people showeringflower petals and dancing, came to the fore. The group had gathered to celebrate the recovery and homecoming of a Covid patient in their area. However, no arrest has been made yet. In their official statement, police said on the basis of the video circulating on social media, unidentified persons had been booked under Sections 188 (disobedience of order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerousto life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code. The area where the crowd gathered was sealed after a couple of positive cases were reported from Ram Darbar.A probe has been initiated to ascertain the identity of those present during the celebrations. “More than 20 people gathered, which is unacceptable during prohibitory orders,” said Nilambari Jagadale, Chandigarh’s senior superintendent of police (SSP). It is a clear case of lapse and dereliction in duty, she said.Departmental action has also been recommended against the patrolling policemen who merely stood there and didn’t inform the police station about the return of a Covid patient, said Sector 31 police officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fir-against-group-celebrating-return-of-cured-covid-patient-in-chandigarh/story-7GDLKqStkoQk1PptLW8GIP.html
15-05-2020||City||Locals oppose cremation of coronavirus positive former special bureau officer||Administrative inertia coupled with resistance by locals aggravated the miseries of the family of a 70-year-old retired special bureau officer, who died of coronavirus on Wednesday. The family of the retired special bureau official had to run from pillar to post for cremating his mortal remains.A senior doctor of Government Medical College and Hospital, Jammu, on the condition of anonymity, said, “After residents led by councillors of ward numbers 6 and 7 didn’t allow the deceased’s cremation at Jogi Gate crematorium on Wednesday night fearing that it would spread the infection in the area, the body was brought back to the mortuary of the hospital. On Thursday, it was taken to another facility in Shastri Nagar and finally cremated by the hospital staff in the presence of two family members of the deceased, including his son-in-law.”However, at Shastri Nagar crematorium also, the locals objected to the cremation, but the district officials and police intervened in time and the body was cremated under the supervision of a naib tehsildar, the senior doctor said.‘CREMATION DONE AFTER CHIEF SECRETARY’S INTERVENTION’Sources said it was only after chief secretary BVR Subrahmanyam’s intervention that the cremation of the former special bureau official took place.The son-in-law of the deceased said, “We still have not been given a medical report mentioning the cause of death of my father-in-law. I doubt he may have died of some other reason and not coronavirus.” “We had a harrowing time in cremating him. A septuagenarian, who served the special bureau and worked for the country, deserved a dignified cremation and for that matter, whosoever dies, has the right of a decent burial or cremation,” he said.‘HOSPITAL DENIED AMBULANCE AT FIRST’The deceased’s son-in-law also cornered the hospital, saying that they initially refused to provide them an ambulance and their staff for the cremation.The hospital authorities, however, rubbished the allegations. “The elderly was brought to the emergency on May 12 at 7:20pm. He was immediately examined by the doctor on duty and declared brought dead. Since his attendants suspected his death due to the coronavirus, on their insistence, the body was shifted to mini mortuary. His nasopharyngeal swab was taken for the virus and sent for testing on priority basis. The test was reported positive on Wednesday,” they said. The hospital management also claimed that they immediately provided an ambulance to the family for transporting the body to the cremation ground.Local Congress councillor from ward number 7, Ritu Choudhary, said, “Given the magnitude of the infection and ever increasing death count, the administration should identify a proper place for the cremation of those dying of coronavirus. Earlier, a 61-year-old woman from Udhampur, who also succumbed to the coronavirus, was also cremated at Jogi Gate. At that time, I had pacified my people telling them that it was a government decision.”“It’s a densely populated locality and people are afraid of infection,” she said. The BJP leader also appealed to the government to inform the elected councillors in advance before permitting the cremation of any coronavirus victim in their respective areas.It was the second death due to the coronavirus in Jammu region and 11th in Jammu and Kashmir.Meanwhile, repeated calls and messages to the Jammu district commissioner and senior police officers didn’t evoke any response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/locals-oppose-cremation-of-72-year-old-former-special-bureau-officer-who-died-of-coronavirus/story-uFDl8nFQ9GCgmLwyw68vHN.html
15-05-2020||Pune||28 Shramik trains carry more than 35,000 migrants out of Pune div||Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar on Thursday said that 28 Shramik special trains had departed from Pune division carrying 35,163 migrant labourers to various destinations in the country.He was addressing a press conference along with Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad, Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham and other top officials on Thursday. On Friday, seven more trains- four from Pune and three from Kolhapur- are scheduled to leave carrying 9,368 migrants.Of these 28 trains, 13 had left from Pune, six from Kolhapur, four from Satara, three from Sangli and two from Solapur, he said. The trains from Kolhapur will carry 1,450 passengers each to Balia and Prayagraj, he said.In Kolhapur, some 6,000 migrants had agitated and exited the Shirol industrial area on Thursday after which two trains to Uttar Pradesh had been organised for them.Besides train movement, 17,290 migrants had left by road transport, he said.The Pune divisional commissioner said he would be submitting a report to the state government on his recommendations for the containment zones after the 17th when lockdown 3.0 comes to an end.Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said the doubling rate for Pune was now 13 days. He said as per revised estimates, the number of positive cases in Pune would touch 5,000 as against the previous estimate of 9,600 cases. With workers in short supply, contractors begin their poaching Yogesh JoshiWith shortage of workers due to lockdown, industrialists from parts of Pune district have complained about poaching of labourers by contractors. The industrialists during their meeting with Pune divisional Commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar on Wednesday raised the issue of contractors poaching labourers who are currently in short supply after many of them left for their native places at a time when various industries have resumed operations in view of relaxations in the lockdown.“I heard some of the issues raised by industrialists during our meeting. I am now compiling a report to be sent to government for necessary action,” said Mhaisekar on Thursday during the press conference.The Divisional commissioner assured industrialists and members of industry body Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) of issues raised to be addressed.“There is currently mismatch between demand for labourers and supply. As a result of which the labourers are also asking for more wages. It is part of economics,” said Mhaisekar.Industries facing this issue are mostly from Chakan-Talegaon belt where most firms are from automobile sector and has seen reverse migration on large scale.According to Secretary, Federation of Chakan Industries (FCI), Dileep Batwal, there is continuous movement of labourers from Chakan. “With many workers leaving Chakan in past two months, industries are facing massive shortage of labourers. This has resulted in labour contractors poaching workers. The situation may even create law and order problems if the government does not address it immediately,” said Batwal.As per estimates by Federation of Chakan Industries, there are around 2.5 lakh labourers working in various industries of which around 1 lakh have left for home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/massive-movement-of-migrants-as-28-shramik-trains-carry-35-000-migrants-out-of-pune-division/story-p1HmZYHKx3636AXTFomlQJ.html
15-05-2020||City||Ludhiana receives 12.4mm rain; clear skies ahead, say Met officials||High-speed winds and lightning coupled with rain lashed Ludhiana and adjoining area on Thursday afternoon.The meteorology department observatory at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) recorded 12.4mm rain, while the maximum temperature was 32°C and minimum temperature 22.6°C.Strong winds damaged the electricity poles, particularly in rural areas, which led to power outage.According to Prabhjyot Kaur Sidhu, head of the department of school of climate change and agricultural meteorology at PAU, the sky will be clear on Friday and Saturday.“The present spell could have made the weather pleasant, but such condition will not push the monsoon forward. High temperatures are crucial to create a low pressure so that monsoon could move towards northern parts of the country,” said Sidhu.She said the present system was created due to western disturbance and strengthened due to the moisture feed from Bay of Bengal and Arabian Sea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-receives-12-4mm-rain-clear-skies-ahead-says-weatherman/story-3WgTF4oIn46sTdc0qlSDSO.html
15-05-2020||City||Ludhiana couple booked for making fake distress call to hoard supplies||A labourer couple was arrested for making a fake distress call, claiming that they had run out of essential supplies and their family was starving. When cops reached the spot, they found that the couple had adequate groceries, including rice, flour, pulses and vegetables, at the house.The accused have been identified as Rajinder Kumar and Rashi of Rari Mohalla.Sub-inspector (SI) Rashpal Kaur, who is investigating the case, said that on Wednesday a distress call was received on the helpline number 1905. “The caller told us that they have nothing to eat and their family members are starving. A team was immediately dispatched to the house. But when the team reached there, they found adequate supplies,” the SI said.When questioned, the couple told the police that due to uncertainty over the lockdown, they wanted to store more groceries at home for the family.The SI said that a case under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 182 (false information, with intent to cause public servant to use his lawful power to the injury of another person) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 52 of Disaster Management act has been registered against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-couple-booked-for-making-fake-distress-call-to-hoard-supplies/story-HmaeV6u9VuJpbKsmoaigXI.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||All Chandigarh health-workers under ambit of Covid-19 insurance scheme||The Chandigarh health department on Thursday ordered to bring all its healthcare workers involved in patient care services under the ambit of the insurance scheme for healthcare workers on Covid-19 pandemic dutyThe Union ministry of health and family welfare on March 29 had announced the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package: Insurance Scheme for Health Workers Fighting COVID-19. This package provides an insurance cover of ₹50 lakh to around 22.12 lakh public healthcare providers, including community health workers, who come in direct contact with Covid-19 patients.The ministry said the insurance would also include accidental loss of life (on account of contracting Covid) of healthcare professionals and would be valid over and above any existing insurance scheme.Director health services Chandigarh Dr G Dewan, on Thursday, ordered that on account of the current situation, all hospital staff of group A, B, C and D employed on regular, contractual, daily wage, ad hoc and outsourced basis will be covered under the scheme.“All those working in Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16, and other civil hospitals and dispensaries including department of Ayush, National Health Mission, office of the assistant director of malaria, as well as food and drug administration involved in patient care services, directly or indirectly, associated with Covid-19 are covered under the scheme. The scheme is applicable for 90 days from March 29,” Dr G Dewan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/all-chandigarh-health-workers-under-ambit-of-covid-19-insurance-scheme/story-ZxnGgpayJBIrP8TAUXUjBJ.html
15-05-2020||Pune||10 booked, 3 held for attacking cop on duty in Dapodi||Ten people have been booked and three were arrested for allegedly beating up a policeman who was trying to disperse a crowd outside a shop in Dapodi on Wednesday.The three arrested have been identified as Ayaz Bhikaat Shaikh, the shop owner; Galib Bhikan Shaikh, 28, and Salim Shaikh, 18, all residents of SMS Colony in Dapodi.They were remanded to one day in police custody on Thursday by a local court.Others have not been identified yet, according to the police.The incident took place around 8:45am on Wednesday near a shop in Pawar Vasti area of Dapodi, near Dapodi-Bopodi bridge, according to the police.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Hawaldar Siddharth Dattu Waghmare, 31, of Government Railway police and resident of Khadki railway quarters.“The shop was open at 8:45am. In Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) area, the shops are supposed to operate between 10am to 4pm. It was a kiosk selling onions and garlic,” said police sub-inspector Sanjay Gadhave of Bhosari police station who is investigating the case.He was in the area for enforcement of lockdown when he claims to have witnessed a crowd at a shop in the area. As he went to disperse the crowd, the shopkeeper, along with nine others, attacked him and rained blows and kicks on him, according to the complaint.Three of the 10, including the shopkeeper, were arrested.A case under Sections 353, 332, 323, 504, 506, 143, 147, 149, 188 and 290 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at Bhosari police station about the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-booked-3-held-for-attacking-cop-on-duty-in-dapodi/story-k2I2Kdlpg5uXfuB3b7D0FN.html
15-05-2020||Pune||Daily cleaning, proper disposal of waste must at quarantine centres in Pune: additional municipal commissioner||After repeated complaints from patients about lack of proper facilities at quarantine centres in the city additional municipal commissioner Shantanu Goyal on Thursday issued fresh guidelines to the staff to ensure better management of such centres.The guidelines were issued after he personally visited some quarantine centres in the city.According to the order, “Daily cleaning of the quarantine centres is a must and waste should be disposed off properly. The toilets should be cleaned at least five times a day.”Goyal has also instructed all zonal commissioners and ward officers to ensure better management of such facilities.Goyal said, “There is a need to have proper registration of each patient admitted in these centres. The patients should be provided with proper beds and such beds should be properly disinfected.”“All the garbage and plates should be put in yellow bags,” he further added.“Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) should provide the necessary personal protection equipment (PPE) to the cleaning staff. The security staff at such centres should also be equipped with necessary safety gear,” he added..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/daily-cleaning-proper-disposal-of-waste-must-at-quarantine-centres-additional-municipal-commissioner/story-AStLB7YuDhtk3ndeUYBa4O.html
15-05-2020||Pune||After two months, Covid-19 doctors to get hotel accommodation in Pune||Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad on Thursday, promptly assured hotel accommodation for civic doctors attending patients affected with Sars-cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection when asked about a complaint from a team of doctors. He said ten rooms have been sanctioned for doctors at the government’s VIP guest house.On May 12, a team of 12 doctors serving at the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) Dr Naidu Contagious Diseases Hospital, wrote to municipal commissioner Gaikwad and state chief secretary Ajoy Mehta with a list of grievances that needed to be addressed. One of the main grievances of the doctors was the absence of hotel accommodation, forcing them to go home to their families and risk infecting them.Pune city is among the Covid-19 red zone districts in the country with 163 deaths and 2,800 positive cases as of May 13.When asked about this letter and the grievances raised by the doctors, Gaikwad said he had already issued instructions long back, but apparently they had not been implemented by the lower staff.“We have enough lodging facilities in private hotels and government rest houses with us and I have instructed our officers to provide them to the doctors. We had not received any requests from Naidu Hospital. I have now asked the Naidu hospital administration to provide the list of the doctors and medical staff who wish to avail of these facilities,” Gaikwad said.The doctors spoke about the serious problems they were facing because of the lack of alternate accommodation for them. One of the doctors on condition of anonymity said that he was not being allowed to use the lift in his housing society and had to climb up many floors using the stairs, after a hard day’s work.“After reaching my flat, I remove my clothes in the public area outside the door itself and then enter the house and go straight to the bathroom for a hot water bath,” the doctor said.Another doctor on condition of anonymity said that he had to commute quite a distance from the hospital to his residence and added to this was the risk of infecting his family members which needed to be avoided as was being done for other doctors treating Covid-19 patients.The doctors in their letter said they had been working for the last two months at a stretch even though they were expected to work for 21 days and then spend seven days in quarantine. They pointed out that the district administration had made lodging arrangements for doctors from the Sassoon General Hospital. The same facility should be extended to them..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-two-months-covid-19-doctors-to-get-hotel-accommodation-in-pune/story-cYRtgX66MFcie6SaIW873J.html
15-05-2020||Pune||Domestic violence calls up 12 times in 5 weeks of lockdown, say Pune police||The Women’s social security cell and Bharosa Cell of the Pune police has reported 598 calls from women in distress suffering domestic violence during the one-and-half months of the lockdown from March 10 to April 25. On a monthly basis, this cell receives about 40 calls from women, on an average, said assistant police inspector Swati Kedar Khade from the Social Security Cell of the Pune police.According to Khade who is also coordinator for the Bharosa Cell which seeks to provide assistance and counselling to senior citizens, women and children, the police addressed all the cases by conducting telephonic counselling sessions and visits to homes wherever required.“Most of the calls were about husband harassment or harassment by the in-laws. Problems sometimes arise due to small houses and personality clashes. When such calls come in, we try to persuade them to adjust during the lockdown. We make individual calls to the woman as well as her husband and so far it has worked,” said Khade.While some women were strong, there were others who would start crying over the phone and needed to be pacified. “We have had calls from women who said they had to leave their homes. In such cases, the nearest police personnel visit the house and check the situation. If things cannot be resolved, then the woman is taken to the Women’s rescue home as a temporary arrangement,” she said. Social activist and counsellor Rama Sarode expressed the fear that domestic violence cases could rise in the future with rising job and financial insecurity due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Substance abuse and alcoholism could further aggravate the situation, said Sarode, who is an advocate.She and her husband Asim, a human rights activist and lawyer run the Sahyog Trust. The trust has produced a 3-minute film called “A deep Breathe’ / Ek Lambi Saans on social media to create awareness about domestic violence. This film hints at taking a deep breath to break the pattern of violence. It has some messages on how domestic violence affects the children, the family and how it is not just physical but also verbal. Sarode said she has received more than 20 distress calls of domestic violence since the lockdown began as compared to the regular calls which are more.“The only frustrating this that we do not have a legal recourse from the judiciary as we are not able to file cases during lockdown. Legal aid or any other aid for domestic violence should be considered as part of emergency services by Government,” said Sarode. Sarode said that many cases of domestic abuse go unreported when the women in question do not have access to a phone or is unwilling to report for the sake of her children.Jaya Valenkar, of the women’s rights organisation, Jagori, said for a woman to complain over a helpline, she needs to have access to a telephone while being 100% sure that she is not being overheard. With almost 57% of the women in the country not having access to phones, their options for registering complaints under the lockdown are now limited, said Valenkar. Sometimes, women rely on other family members to report on their behalf. But since the perpetrator is right there, they are unable to seek help, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/domestic-violence-calls-up-almost-12-times-in-5-weeks-of-lockdown-pune-police/story-AO1IremQ01OicXqT2QQSNJ.html
15-05-2020||Pune||2 lakh Nepalese stuck in Pune count days to return home, good samaritans come to their rescue||For thousands of Nepali Nationals who work in Pune, and have made the city their home since many years, the lockdown has spelt disaster. Says Gautam Mohan, “I was working at a small dhaba near Ramwadi and would cook Chinese food. I would get paid Rs 12,000 per month and with my wife also working we were managing our lives well. But when the lockdown was announced, the dhaba shut down and I was suddenly jobless.”Gautam was lucky compared to the 45 men who not only lost their jobs but also had no roof over their heads. Umesh Bista, member of the Nepali Jansampark Samiti Bharat said, “These men worked in various restaurants in and around Vimanagar, Tingrenagar and at night slept there itself. On the day the lockdown was announced they were asked to leave. Now they had no roof over their heads besides no pay.”So Bista and his samiti members got into action. “We took in as many of these men as we could in our own homes. But 16 of them could not be accommodated. So, we rented a shed in Dhanori and kept these men there. Our samiti delivers ration so that these guys can at least feed themselves,” he said.According to Mohanraj Bishwakarma who heads the Pragati Nepali Samaj Bharat, there are about two lakh Nepali nationals working in Pune and PCMC. “At least 50-60% of these people are working in restaurants. And these restaurants are now closed. The result? Most are jobless. Only those who are working as security guards still have their jobs, but for the majority, no income is a serious problem,” he said.Ikram Khan, owner of Soho restaurant in Kalyaninagar who heads the Sarva Dharama Samabhav Trust feeds at least 700-800 Nepalese in and around Kalyaninagar, “It happened quite by chance that my driver Bhim who is a Nepalese told me about his neighbours who all worked in eateries in our area. They had lost their jobs and were hungry at home. So, I packed rations for them. But they had no cooking gas. So, I decided to cook in my restaurants compound. It started with 50 Nepali nationals; however, word spread fast and Nepali nationals from Ramwadi, Kharadi, Vimannagar and nearby places started pouring in. Now I arrange food for 1,000 nationals. Even non-Nepali locals started coming for food. We welcome all,” said Khan.Khan has enlisted 10 Nepali men from the group to cook in his compound. He provides them with the infrastructure like utensils, gas and the ingredients from his restaurant’s kitchen. “My friend Nitin Sahasrabudhe provides 250 eggs daily. The Weikfield group sends us 25 kgs of mushrooms every two or three days. I have drum stick trees in my garden, we pluck those. And I add about 10-12 kgs of bottle gourd. All this is cooked and added to the dal. It is served with the rice. People come here with their own utensils and take the food home for their families. We also pack 250 parcels and give to the migrants on the roads around our area,” Khan added.The Pune Faith Community Church for Nepali nationals too is doing its bit. Says Pradip Bajracharya its pastor, “We have 300 members and most are now jobless. We distribute ration packets that lasts for a week for one family.”While some Nepali nationals are being taken care of by good Samaritans what about the rest of them? Mohanraj says, “We got a message from our Embassy that the govt of India would take care of the Nepali nationals stuck in India and the govt of Nepal would look after the Indians in our country. But that is not happening. We are left to our own devices. We want the Indian govt to consider running trains for us that can take us to the border. Yes, the borders are currently sealed, but they should open up soon. It is not possible for Nepalese to live here without any job or money. We want to go back home.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/2-lakh-nepalese-stuck-in-pune-count-days-to-return-home-good-samaritans-come-to-their-rescue/story-KDDL5b9fXefoFJlPYv9mDI.html
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Summer vacations extended by two weeks in Chandigarh’s government schools||After days of lingering over a decision on whether Chandigarh government and government-aided schools would open or remain closed, the education department said on Thursday that they would remain shut during the lockdown for the next two weeks. The UT administration had earlier announced the summer breaks from April 14 to May 14, during the curfew imposed in the wake of the Covid epidemic. However, written communication to various stakeholders from the office of district education officer says government and government aided schools will remain closed till further orders. The notification comes just a day before schools were supposed to re-open. The move affects over a lakh students studying in 123 government schools and 8 aided schools. Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director of school education, Chandigarh, said, “Schools will remain open during winter vacations and even on Saturdays to make up the loss of instructional hours / teaching days. We can review our decision of vacations anytime as per guidelines of ministry of home affairs and the local situation.”HS Mamik, president of the Independent Schools Association (ISA), said that some schools have suggested they be allowed to open partially, or at least their staff should be allowed to continue on odd-even rotation basis. “Thus with 50% staff attending school on alternate days, social distancing will be easier and material for online learning can also be created easily,” he said, adding that it would also help then understand what preparations are needed before schools are opened.Speaking of this, Brar said, “We have authorised the DEO to give permission to private schools to open partially, subject to certain conditions on a case to case basis.”In most private schools, summer holidays get over by May 17, with students being asked to report the next day. The association of schools said that online classes will run for students till they get clear instructions from the education department on the future course of action.Nitin Goyal, head of the parents body of Chandigarh students, said, “Going by the rising number of Covid infections in the city day by day, all schools must remain closed. Private schools are in a hurry to reopen because they are only eyeing the fees.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/summer-vacay-extended-indefinitely-in-chandigarh-govt-schools/story-JDQ40iGAfhUpuoivPERc0L.html
15-05-2020||City||Comply with pollution control norms or face music, Punjab dairy units told||The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) on Thursday issued a public notice asking the dairy farm and gaushala proprietors in the state to obtain consent to establish and operate the farms under Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981, and Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974.Failure to comply will invite strict action under the provisions of Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, and environmental compensation would also be levied, the notice said.PPCB member secretary Krunesh Garg said the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in January made it mandatory for proprietors of dairy farms/gaushalas to obtain consent under the provision of these acts. “The proprietors had not been coming forward for obtaining consent following which the board issued the public notice,” said Garg, adding that to apply for the consent, one can log on to PPCB’s portal pbocmms.nic.in. ‘NOT AWARE’ As per the information, there are around 1,100 dairy units in Haibowal and Tajpur Road complexes and surrounding areas in Ludhiana. Many scattered units are also situated in the city. PPCB and the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) had been tightening the noose around the dairy owners for dumping dairy waste into the Buddha Nullah, the seasonal stream which runs through the Malwa region of Punjab and, after passing through Ludhiana, drains into the Sutlej river.One of the dairy owners in Haibowal dairy complex, requesting anonymity, said, “We are not aware of any kind of consent to be obtained from the board which is why we never applied for it. Following MC and PPCB directions, the dairy owners have already stopped dumping waste into the nullah.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/comply-with-pollution-control-norms-or-face-music-punjab-dairy-units-told/story-ZtZGLfxBwEbogoOR3RjKxL.html
15-05-2020||Delhi||Police book landlords for insisting on rent, house owners say they have little choice||Cracking down on landlords forcing their tenants to pay rent, the Delhi Police have booked at least eight people since Sunday for violating the orders issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) in view of the ongoing national lockdown to stave off the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Police said they have registered FIRs against eight persons in Mukherjee Nagar under Section 188 of IPC that pertains to disobeying a public servant. If convicted, a person could be jailed for up to a month, or fined Rs 200, or both. Officers associated with cases said one more person has been booked under the same section in Kotla Mubarakpur. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicVijayanta Arya, deputy commissioner of police (north-west), said the action comes in line with the DDMA order of April 22, which called for “strict compliance” of directions that house owners will not demand rent from migrant workers for one month. It required district magistrates to spread awareness about this and, in case of non-compliance, take legal action. In Mukherjee Nagar, most complainants were students preparing for competitive exams. “If they approach us, we try to sort it out with the landlords. If that doesn’t work, we register FIRs,” Arya said. Also Read: Biggest single-day spike as Delhi Covid cases cross 8,000A 22-year-old student, who did not wish to be identified, said his family in Bihar was going through a financial crisis after his father, a diabetes patient, stopped his business fearing infection. “The house owner asked me to either pay rent or vacate. Since I was unable to return home and don’t have anywhere to go, I approached the police and registered a case,” said the student. A student in her 20s who lives in the same neighbourhood said the person who ran her paying guest (PG) facility barred access to the kitchen. “My parents are unable to send money. It was a do or die situation for us. We survived on fruits and snacks for two days before filing a case,” she said, requesting anonymity. Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe owner of the second student’s PG denied the allegation and said that he had only cut down items on the menu. “The monthly rent I pay for four floors to the building owner is Rs 4 lakh. I have Rs 42,000 electricity dues and pay the cook Rs 16,000 per month. If I don’t get some help, how will I be able to continue to accommodate them?” he said. He alleged some students had dues pending for months. BS Vohra, president of East Delhi Residents Welfare Association Joint Front, said while he expected house owners to waive or postpone rent, it was unfair to book them as it could be their only source of income. “An FIR is not the way as it is harassment for both parties. The chief minister must step in,” said Vohra.Prior to the DDMA order, CM Arvind Kejriwal had requested house owners to not insist on for rent for a month or two and if possible, take it in instalments.Varkey Parakkal of Student’s Tenants Union Delhi, said, “We wrote to the Union and Delhi governments, requesting that students’ rents be waived and landlords be compensated since we know many depended on it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/police-book-landlords-for-insisting-on-rent-house-owners-say-they-have-little-choice/story-DWdX59dLGYaG6Vrzuyx3NL.html
15-05-2020||Pune||Four arrested in Pune for delivering hookah by advertising on website||The Pune police crime branch officials carried out raids on Wednesday and Thursday and arrested four for advertising on a website about sale of hookah. The police also seized 12 hookah pots, packets of hookah flavours, four mobile phones and three two-wheelers from them. The total seizure, including vehicles, is estimated to be worth Rs 1,47,100, according to a statement released by the crime branch department.“They kept the stock at their houses and delivered to those who called and provided addresses. The suspects are Class 12, first year and second year students and dropouts. It was their means to make money during the lockdown,” said sub-inspector MV Mahadik of anti-extortion cell of Pune police crime branch.The police found a post on a website that tracks local culture trends. The website had posted a story about a new service in Pune that helps customers get home delivery of hookah pots, flavours and related products. A police official pretended to be a customer and called the contact number. The three men arrived at the given address on Wednesday night and crime branch officials arrested them.Upon further investigation, the trio led the police to another person who was arrested on Thursday.The arrested were identified as Meet Vijay Oswal, 19, a resident of Wannowrie bazaar; Royal Jayram Madhuram, 28, a resident of Lullanagar, Kondhwa; Parmesh Mahesh Thakkr, 24, a resident of Bhavani peth, and Pratik Vikas Mehta, 28, of Dhankawdi.A case under Sections 188, 269, 270, 273 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 5, 7, 22 of Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act, Section 51(1)(B) of National Disaster Management Act, Section 11 of Maharashtra Covidd19 Regulations, 2020 and Section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act was registered in the matter at Kondhwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-arrested-for-delivering-hookah-by-advertising-on-website/story-2FRVwHX110XV3W7dyqxTtJ.html
15-05-2020||Pune||Sadashiv peth medical stockists shut shop for three days after Covid-19 outbreak||The Chemists’ Association of Pune District has decided to close shops in Sadashiv peth for three days after seven of its employees and shop owners tested Covid-19 (coronavirus) positive on Wednesday.Around 400 stockists make up the wholesale Dawa Bazaar in Sadashiv peth which falls under the red zone.The association has decided to close shops from Friday (May 15) to Sunday (May 17).“We have taken the decision to contain the spread of coronavirus. We will be sanitising shops and lanes. We have sufficient stock of medical supplies and medicines, so there is no need to worry,” said Rohit Karpe, president, Chemists’ Association of Pune District.The association has assured to provide medical supplies in case of emergency during this period.The 400 distributors supply to almost 4,500 medical shops out of which 1,000 are located in the city and Pune district.“We have informed all medical shop owners to stock enough for three days and taken the step to break the chain and check spread of the virus,” said Anil Belkar, secretary of the association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/medical-stockists-to-shut-shop-for-three-days/story-ZzK1vvDaQkyqFpLlJtyTXN.html
15-05-2020||City||Life in lockdown: Unorganised sector in dire need of govt support, says this Ludhiana-based trader||Although summer is the peak season for ready-made garment traders, the lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has forced them to keep their shops shut since March 23, leaving them with no source of revenue.Arvinder Singh Makkar, who owns a wholesale ready-made garment shop in Akal market of Chaura Bazaar in Ludhiana shared that though he has already started receiving orders from shopkeepers in small towns, he has been unable to dispatch the goods to revive the income cycle.“Most of the wholesale shopkeepers already have summer clothes stocked in their shops or godowns that they have not been able to sell due to the lockdown. This is a major concern for us,” said Makkar, who is also the president of Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal. He said that a delegation from the association recently requested the district administration to allow them to open shops while putting safety measures in place. “Now everyone is aware of coronavirus and concerned about their safety. We are only requesting the administration to support us in opening our businesses gradually as now we need to live with this virus,” he added.Makkar said the unorganised sectors were hit hard by the curfew and that the government should come to their aid. “The unorganised sector is facing a huge financial crisis. The government should provide businesses with tax benefits and waive off electricity bills,” he added.Amid the lockdown, with his business operation remains shut, Makkar, a resident of Vishal Nagar, has been spending time at home playing online games with his two sons based in United States and Gurugram. “To boost my immunity, I have been doing yoga every day and eating healthy. I’m not so fond of watching television so I spend my day talking to my friends on the phone and playing ludo with my sons online,” he said.Makkar, who will be turning 60 on May 17, said his only wish is that humanity succeeds in winning the war against Covid-19 and the situation normalises soon so that people can earn for their loved ones’ survival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/life-in-times-of-lockdown-unorganised-sector-in-dire-need-of-govt-support-says-ludhiana-based-trader-arvinder-singh-makkar/story-FnF5qnN4UjgVfhq7J92doL.html
15-05-2020||Pune||Pune police provide transport facility to stranded workers||After being stranded for about two days without a roof, a group of about 40 migrant labourers were provided with a private bus by the Pune Police to take them to Madhya Pradesh.At least 30 to 40 migrant labourers took shelter at an open ground near a temple in Vadarwadi, Vishrantwadi after they were left out of the process of boarding a bus which was supposed to take them to the Pune railway station to board the Shramik Express on Monday.The labourers were natives of Damoh, Jabalpur, Narsinghpur, and Shahdol districts of Madhya Pradesh.On Tuesday morning the wage labourers were seen camped outside Vishrantwadi police station.Having been left stranded outside the police station for a day, the labourers went back to their houses in Vadar Vasti area of Vishrantwadi. The workers, however, allege to have been barred from using the houses they had just left unless they pay rent. As the families had nowhere to go they took shelter at an open ground near a temple in Vadarwadi, Vishrantwadi to sleep.They were provided with food by the police station officials on Tuesday evening.“Yesterday (Tuesday), in the evening we got food, and the police then asked us to adjust for one more day,” said Anil Pal, 18, a migrant labourer.“When we went back to the room on Sunday night, the owner refused to open the locks. He said now we will have to pay rent or pay money to use it for one day. So we spent the night in an open ground near the temple,” said Pal.“In the morning (on Wednesday) the police gave us food, sanitiser and masks and a doctor used a machine to check our temperature and we were told to board a bus which will take us to Pune station and later a train to the border of Madhya Pradesh (MP),” said Pal.“After that, we have no idea what will be done. The police were saying that maybe the local government there (in MP) will make some arrangements,” he added.While some labourers had come to the city a few months ago, some had reached merely days before the lockdown was announced.Babita Pal, a woman in her 20s with speech impairment, looked on in desperation to find someone who would understand her. Babita was with her husband and a 4-year-old daughter Vaishnavi. While Vaishnavi clutched on to a packet of biscuits unaware of the chaos.“We have been waiting here to be able to go home. The questions that we ask officials remain all unanswered. I had reached here only five-six days before the lockdown was announced. Since then, I have had no work or money,” said Loh Chand, a man in his 40s, travelling with three other family members.The daily wage earners landed at the police station as they had responded to police calls stating their application had been approved and that they will be put on a bus to the railway station, according to multiple people’s accounts.According to Pournima Gaikwad, DCP, zone 3, said, “Sometimes real count of labourers is higher than the train accommodation. There are few such occasions where we are not able to rehabilitate the labourers (who have left rented home and cannot go back) we take care of their food and accommodation.”“We have made plans to erect temporary shelters for people who are found walking in an attempt to reach home in a different state. They will be provided with food, water, and a space to rest until an accommodation is arranged. We are trying to get the PMC to accommodate them in the shelters for homeless,” said DCP Gaikwad.“We are helping in whatever way we can. In our zone, we have started asking private buses to take people to their states for whoever is willing to pay for the service,” said DCP Pankaj Deshmukh of zone 4.“The private buses also need money to complete the journey. We are urging them to keep the cost as low as possible. We have also made arrangements for doctors for screening and food in a parking lot in Kharadi,” said DCP Deshmukh.“The police at the local level are making as many arrangements as they can. Every zone gets to release only a certain number of people in PMPML buses to the train station as the trains are limited. The information is provided five to six hours prior to the train departure,” according to DCP Gaikwad.In the limited time, hopeful travellers are called upon; some make it to the train, some are left behind, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-police-provide-transport-facility-to-stranded-workers/story-Aw0YPnApXJkQSg3Ho86SzL.html
15-05-2020||Pune||Concerned about new discharge protocols by ICMR: Covid-19 hospital CEO||PUNE: The Union health ministry’s revised discharge guidelines for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients has evoked concern from the chief executive of a prominent hospital in Pune engaged in the treatment of Covid-19 patients.“The recommendations suggest that we should discharge such patients (mild/very mild/pre-symptomatic cases) by the 10th day without doing the virus swab test. We have seen patients who are swab positive even on the 14th and 15th days and some extending up to the 25th or 30th days. Premature discharge of such patients from the hospital will lead to a continuing spread of the virus within the community,” cardiothoracic surgeon, Dr. Vijay Natarajan said.Chief executive officer (CEO) of the Symbiosis University Hospital and Research Centre, Lavale, he noted that the recommendation of enforcing 14 days home quarantine “is very impractical in most Indian small-sized households”.The hospital at Lavale, has devoted a separate five storey building for the Covid-19 pandemic with a capacity of 500 isolation beds which includes 30 beds in the ICU (intensive care unit) with four ventilators. It has a dedicated staff of 200 nurses and 150 doctors, including faculty and resident doctors. COn May 9, the Union health ministry revised its discharge guidelines for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients stating that mild/very mild/pre-symptomatic cases admitted to a Covid-19 care facility will undergo regular temperature and pulse oximetry monitoring.“The patient can be discharged after 10 days of symptom onset and no fever for 3 days. There will be no need for testing prior to discharge. At the time of discharge, the patient will be advised to follow the home isolation for further 7 days as per guidelines available at (https://www.mohfw.gov.in/pdf/GuidelinesforHomeIsolationofverymildpresymptomaticCOVID19case s.pdf),” the guidelines said.The government’s previous rules said a laboratory-confirmed case had to be tested on day 14 once and then again in a span of 24 hours. If both the results were negative then the patient was fit to be discharged from the health care facility.Dr. Natarajan noted that while the government machinery was doing its best within the limited resources of manpower, infrastructure and equipment, “it is extremely important that policies be guided by scientific evidence rather than administrative convenience.”At the hospital, Covid-19 patients are being admitted since April 8 and the average occupancy has been varying from around 150 to 200 patients and about 8 to 10 patients in the ICU. Till date a total of 415 patients have been treated in the hospital of which 285 have been discharged. The CEO expressed satisfaction that all the necessary precautions were being taken and his hospital did not have a single case of infection among the healthcare staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ceo-of-covid-19-hospital-expresses-concern-over-new-discharge-rules/story-a5Kyy3Oe9lC6nMe7wYpwaM.html
15-05-2020||World||113-year-old Spanish woman overcomes coronavirus infection||A 113-year-old Spanish woman says she is in good health after having overcome infection by the new coronavirus.Maria Branyas said she “feels good.” She avoided developing severe COVID-19 symptoms and had her latest test come back negative. Her daughter told Spanish news agency EFE that her mother, who was born in the United States, tested positive for the virus in April.“As far as my health, I feel good, with the little issues everyone has as we get older, but I feel fine,” Branyas told EFE this week from her nursing home where several residents have fallen ill and died from the new virus.Local media say at least 17 residents of her nursing home are suspected to have died after developing symptoms associated with COVID-19. On March 27, Branyas’ social media account run by her children said that “unfortunately the virus has entered our residence.”Branyas was born in San Francisco on March 4, 1907 after her family emigrated to Mexico and then the U.S., as her children recount in a Twitter account run in her name called “Super Catalan Grandmother.”After living for some years in New Orleans where her father founded a magazine, she returned to Spain’s northeastern Catalonia region where she lives in the town of Olot.Branyas still has memories of crossing the Atlantic Ocean in a boat during World War I, as she related to Catalan news agency ACN on her birthday in March.“Because of the war, Germany was still attacking in the north, and there was no way of going through the Nordic seas, so you had to go further south, via Cuba and the Azores,” she said.Despite her poor hearing and sight, Branyas said she was aware of the pandemic that has claimed over 27,000 lives in Spain.“It is a tragedy,” she said, “since only a few people seem to know where it came from, how it got here and why.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/113-year-old-spanish-woman-overcomes-coronavirus-infection/story-4mdnCb8a26ZZXToUxVmvnM.html
15-05-2020||World||Donald Trump hopes for Covid-19 vaccine by end of year, ‘maybe before’||US President Donald Trump gave an upbeat assessment Friday of the chances of developing a Covid-19 vaccine, saying he hoped one will be ready by the end of 2020.“We are looking to get it by the end of the year if we can, maybe before,” Trump said, as he delivered an update on the race for a vaccine.“We think we are going to have some very good results coming out very quickly,” he told reporters in the Rose Garden of the White House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-hopes-for-covid-19-vaccine-by-end-of-year-maybe-before/story-XCSXye5m5jfaoAD7Ygn2lL.html
15-05-2020||World||US on track to pull troops from Afghanistan despite turmoil||The United States is on track to meet its commitment to the Taliban to withdraw several thousand troops from Afghanistan by summer, even as violence flares, the peace process is stalled, and Kabul struggles in political deadlock.U.S. officials say they will reduce to 8,600 troops by July 15 and abandon five bases. And by next spring all foreign forces are suppose to withdraw, ending America’s longest war. Yet the outlook for peace is cloudy at best. In the absence of Afghan peace talks, the Trump administration may face the prospect of fully withdrawing even as the Taliban remains at war with the government.That has concerned some lawmakers, including Rep. Liz Cheney, a Wyoming Republican and member of the House Armed Services Committee. She says the United States needs to keep a military and intelligence presence in Afghanistan to prevent extremist groups like al-Qaida and the Islamic State’s Afghan affiliate from forming havens from which to attack the U.S.“Withdrawing U.S. troops from Afghanistan won’t end the war — it will just let the terrorists win,” she told The Associated Press.Some question whether the U.S.-Taliban agreement signed in Doha, Qatar, on Feb. 29, which the Trump administration billed as “a decisive step to achieve a negotiated peace,” was instead mainly a withdrawal agreement. President Donald Trump had campaigned on bringing troops home from foreign wars. And though the Afghan government publicly supported the deal, it did not participate directly in the negotiations and has not, in Washington’s view, capitalized on the chance for peace talks.“President Trump promised to bring our troops home from overseas and is following through on that promise,” the White House said when the Doha deal was signed.The deal stipulated that the Taliban would start intra-Afghan peace negotiations on March 10, but that has not happened. The Taliban and the Afghan government also have squabbled over a promised release of each other’s prisoners.“A lot of this boils down to: Was the U.S.-Taliban agreement any kind of serious negotiation at all, or was it just totally a fig leaf to cover abject withdrawal? I suspect the latter,” said Stephen Biddle, a Columbia University professor of international and public affairs and a former adviser to U.S. commanders in Kabul.“It gave away almost all the leverage we had in exchange for virtually nothing,” he added. “It looks very much like a situation in which the Taliban have concluded that the Americans are out, and they’re going to play out the string and see what happens when we’re gone.”The United States has been the prime backer of the Afghan government since it invaded the country soon after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks and overthrew the Taliban, which was running the country and harboring al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden. According to U.S. government auditors, Washington has committed $86 billion to support Afghan security forces and is still spending about $4 billion a year.The Trump administration has expressed frustration with the lack of movement toward peace talks, but it has not threatened publicly to pull back from its commitment to fully withdraw. It did conduct an airstrike against the Taliban in defense of Afghan ground forces in early March just hours after Trump had what he called a good conversation by phone with a senior Taliban leader, Abdul Ghani Baradar.Although the drawdown is required by the Doha agreement, U.S. defense officials had said for many months that they wanted to reduce to 8,600 — the approximate number of troops that were supporting Afghan forces and conducting counterterrorism operations when Trump took office.American officials constructed the Doha agreement mainly as a way of ending U.S. involvement in the war, rather than as an assured path to peace. The withdrawal is subject to Taliban assurances, but it does not require a peace settlement.The deal also is seen by the U.S. as a way to enlist the Taliban in the fight against the Islamic State group. The American military considers the group’s Afghan affiliate as a greater threat than the Taliban.The U.S. agreed to withdraw not just military forces but also all intelligence agency personnel, private security contractors, trainers and advisers. NATO allied forces also are to withdraw.The Doha deal was seen at the time as Afghanistan’s best chance at peace in decades of war, but the government has since been consumed with political turmoil. Ghani and his rival Abdullah Abdullah have both declared themselves winners of last year’s presidential polls, and each declared himself president.Defense Secretary Mark Esper has said that getting out of Afghanistan would advance his aim of devoting more forces to the Asia-Pacific region to counter China, which he sees as the No. 1 long-term threat to the United States.Esper has been skeptical of the Taliban’s commitment to peace, and on May 5 he said neither the Taliban nor the Afghan government is abiding by the agreement.Esper said the Taliban should return to the reduced levels of violence that existed in the week before the Feb. 29 Doha signing. At the time, Ghani put his government forces in a defensive stance, but on Tuesday he ordered a return to the offensive, expressing anger for two attacks, including one that killed 24 people, including infants, at a hospital. The Taliban denied responsibility and the U.S. has blamed the Islamic State affiliate in Afghanistan for the attack. The Taliban on Thursday said it had carried out a suicide bombing as retaliation for having been falsely accused by Ghani.A Pentagon spokesman, Lt. Col. Thomas Campbell, indicated the U.S. stance has not changed.“Consistent with the agreement, the U.S. military will continue to conduct defensive strikes against the Taliban when they attack our (Afghan) partners.,” he said Wednesday. “As the secretary of defense stated recently, this is going to be a windy, bumpy road, but a political agreement is the best way to end the war.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-on-track-to-pull-troops-from-afghanistan-despite-turmoil/story-nIzASOMjU0OlmhK7MN2O0K.html
15-05-2020||World||China has fifth virus vaccine in human trial: official||China has a fifth potential coronavirus vaccine in a human trial and more are on the way, a health official said Friday, as the world races to find a formula to stop the contagion in its tracks.So far there have been no “major adverse reactions” reported among the 2,575 volunteers participating in the five phase-two tests, said Zeng Yixin, deputy director of the National Health Commission.“According to the plan, if all goes well, the above projects will complete the second phase of clinical trials in July this year,” Zeng said. More vaccine candidates are in the pipeline and awaiting approval for human trials, he added.China had previously said four human trials for possible vaccines were under way. Zeng did not say when the trials, which must complete three phases for the drug to be approved for use, might be finished.Scientists around the world are working at breakneck speed to develop a vaccine for COVID-19, the disease caused by the virus, which has killed more than 300,000 people and infected over 4.4 million.But China’s success in largely taming the outbreak could pose a hurdle for its vaccine developers when they reach the final stage of testing. The drug must be administered to a group of volunteers and a placebo given to a control group in the same area where the virus is spreading to see if it works.Beijing-based Sinovac Biotech, which developed one of the vaccines being tested, has told AFP that it is looking to carry out the final stage of its trial abroad because China does not have a large enough coronavirus cluster.Experts say it will take at least 12 to 18 months to develop an effective vaccine, possibly even longer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-has-fifth-virus-vaccine-in-human-trial-official/story-FfBNG09hJjRxhO97ZOix2M.html
15-05-2020||World||Coronavirus could cause 28 million cancelled surgeries globally: Study||Some 28.4 million planned surgeries could be cancelled or postponed globally due to the new coronavirus pandemic, according to new research warning that huge backlogs risk “potentially devastating” consequences for patients and health systems. The study, published this week in the British Journal of Surgery, modelled the expected number of elective operations that would be put on hold in 190 countries during a 12-week peak of COVID-19 disruption.Hospitals in countries grappling with major coronavirus outbreaks have postponed most non-emergency procedures to avoid putting patients at risk, redeploying staff and resources to the virus response.Researchers from the COVIDSurg Collaborative, an information sharing network of surgeons and anaesthetists in 77 countries, estimated that some 2.4 million operations would be cancelled per week in the period, or 28.4 million in total.They called on governments to urgently develop recovery plans to clear the backlog of surgeries and prepare for possible further waves of COVID-19 infection. “Cancelling elective surgery at this scale will have substantial impact on patients and cumulative, potentially devastating consequences for health systems worldwide,” the authors said. “Delaying time-sensitive elective operations, such as cancer or transplant surgery, may lead to deteriorating health, worsening quality of life, and unnecessary deaths.”Globally, around 82 percent of benign surgeries, 38 percent of cancer operations and around a quarter of elective Caesarean sections would be cancelled or postponed, the study found. It said that it would take an average of 45 weeks to clear the backlog, assuming that countries boost their normal surgical volume by 20 percent. The researchers used survey data from specialists at 359 hospitals in 71 countries, as well as information on normal surgery rates to model the likely effect across 190 countries. Their estimate that the peak surge of infections would last around 12 weeks was based on the experience of China’s Hubei province, where the virus emerged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-could-cause-28-million-cancelled-surgeries-globally-study/story-dvpO56XiB1gCKuJa2arCeI.html
15-05-2020||World||Number of Covid-19 cases falls below 100 in China; Wuhan launches massive drive to test 11 million people||The number of patients undergoing treatment for Covid-19 in China has fallen below 100 for the first time since January, even as Wuhan -- the epicentre of the deadly virus -- has launched a massive drive to test all its 11 million residents to detect growing number of asymptomatic cases, officials said on Friday.According to figures released by China’s National Health Commission (NHC) on Friday, the number of coronavirus patients undergoing treatment for the disease came down to 91 as of Thursday.Officials said it is a major landmark for the country where the virus originated.The virus has so far claimed 4,633 lives in China, the NHC said. China has reported 15 new COVID-19 cases, including 11 asymptomatic ones, taking the total number of coronavirus infections in the country to 82,933, the health officials said on Friday.Of the total 82,933 cases, 91 patients are undergoing treatment and 78,209 had been discharged from hospitals after recovery, they said.The total number of asymptomatic coronavirus infections in China now stands at 619, including 492 in Wuhan. Asymptomatic cases refer to people who are tested COVID-19 positive but develop no symptoms such as fever, cough or sore throat. However, they pose a risk of spreading the disease to others. Though the number of coronavirus cases has fallen, the country continues to struggle with asymptomatic cases, which officials on Friday said has prompted the Chinese authorities to go for mass testing in Wuhan, where the virus first emerged in December last year before it spread across the world and wreaked havoc. Mass nucleic acid testing on all residents in Wuhan for COVID-19 will help protect people’s health and fully resume social and economic order in the city, Zeng Yixin, deputy head of the NHC told reporters here on Friday.The mass testing is conducive to learning more about the scope of the epidemic in the city and carrying out targeted epidemic control and prevention measures, he said.Conducting nucleic acid tests on all Wuhan residents is no easy task in terms of mobilisation and organisation, Zeng said.“We need to make sure people who have been tested earlier do not have close contact with those who will be tested later, and the accuracy of the test shall not be undermined by the large number of tests,” he said.Wuhan has conducted nucleic acid tests on more than three million residents earlier and will carry out the test on all residents that have not been tested before, according to a notice issued by the local authorities on Thursday.Residents living in old communities, populous communities and communities with previous confirmed cases will be tested first, it said, adding that the local government will shoulder the costs for the tests. PTI KJV SCY||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/number-of-covid-19-cases-falls-below-100-in-china-wuhan-launches-massive-drive-to-test-11-million-people/story-T4uudws79THERZlmcOzfqI.html
15-05-2020||World||Covid-19: Car-free streets, cycle paths new London reality||London mayor Sadiq Khan on Friday announced plans to transform parts of central London into one of the largest car-free zones in any capital city in the world, discouraging use of public transport and promoting cycling and walking.One of the worst affected areas in the UK, London presents an unreal picture, with usually buzzing streets and areas stilled into silence by the lockdown imposed by the coronavirus pandemic. Some curbs have been eased, but officials are keen that new realities stay.Public transport must only be used when absolutely necessary: as a last resort, the mayor’s office said, amidst reports of crowding on the Underground and buses after Prime Minnister Boris Johnson announced some relaxations in the restrictions last Sunday.“Many more Londoners must now walk or cycle. Everyone who can work from home must continue doing so for the foreseeable future. We must all spend more of our leisure time in our local areas to avoid unnecessary journeys. Londoners who can only get to work on rail must now walk or cycle from rail stations rather than using the tube or bus”, the office said.Some streets are to be converted to walking and cycling only, with others restricted to all traffic apart from buses. Streets between London Bridge and Shoreditch, Euston and Waterloo and Old Street and Holborn may be limited to buses, pedestrians and cyclists.Waterloo Bridge and London Bridge may be restricted to people walking, cycling and buses only, with pavements widened to enable people to safely travel between busy railway stations and their workplaces.Khan said: “I ask that Londoners do not use public transport unless it is absolutely unavoidable – it must be a last resort. If you can work from home you should continue to do so. We should all spend more of our leisure time in our local areas too.”“We will need many more Londoners to walk and cycle to make this work. That’s why these plans will transform parts of central London to create one of the largest car-free areas in any capital city in the world”.Transport officials have added an initial 1,000 extra cycle parking spaces across London, focused around busy areas like high streets and transport hubs. A scheme that allows people to use and leave cycles across central London is available for health workers free.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-car-free-streets-cycle-paths-new-london-reality/story-1nt2VQFI1JApdi4HJIvZPN.html
15-05-2020||World||Your salad, grown on Mars, may soon be a reality||New insights released on Friday show that plant seeds taken to Mars on the International Space Station (ISS) and spent six months there grow only slightly slower when back on Earth, raising the prospect of growing food on the red planet.Two kg of rocket seeds were on board the ISS with British European Space Agency astronaut, Tim Peake, as part of his Principia mission. They absorbed up to 100 times more radiation than on Earth and were subjected to intense vibrations from the stresses and strains of space travel.When the seeds returned to Earth, 600,000 children from schools and groups in the UK took part in an experiment, supported by the UK Space Agency, to plant them and monitor their growth, comparing it to that of seeds that had remained on Earth.The agency said that while the space seeds grew more slowly and were more sensitive to ageing, they were still viable. It suggests that, by taking sensible steps to protect the seeds on their journey, it should be possible to grow plants in space or on another planet for humans to eat.Peake said: “In one of the largest and most inspirational experiments of its kind, more than half a million young people collected reliable data to help the scientists at Royal Holloway investigate the effects of spaceflight on rocket seeds”.“When humans travel to Mars, they will need to find ways to feed themselves, and this research helps us understand some of the biology of seed storage and germination which will be vital for future space missions”, he added.The research published in journal Life was led by Gerhard Leubner and Jake Chandler from Royal Holloway and Alistair Griffiths from the Royal Horticultural Society.Chandler said: “Transporting high quality seeds to space and beyond will be crucial for growing plants that support human exploration of space, Mars and other worlds. Our study found that a six-month journey to space reduced the vigour of rocket seeds compared to those that stayed on Earth, indicating that spaceflight accelerated the ageing process”.“Thus, while we should carefully consider protecting seeds from potentially harmful factors including space radiation and mechanical vibration, the seeds remained alive, and the prospect of eating home-grown salad on Mars may be one small step closer”.The RHS tasked 8,600 schools and groups across the UK to take part in the controlled study, documenting their results as part of a project called Rocket Science.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/your-salad-grown-on-mars-may-soon-be-a-reality/story-jC3CVmNOAIhGik23zQYCcJ.html
15-05-2020||World||UK says ‘very little progress’ made toward post-Brexit deal||Britain’s chief Brexit negotiator, David Frost, said the U.K. and European Union have made “very limited progress” toward a deal after the latest round of talks.“We made very little progress towards agreement on the most significant outstanding issues between us,” Frost said in an emailed statement on Friday.The EU’s insistence on including a set of novel and unbalanced proposals on the so-called “level playing field,” and the bloc’s demands on fisheries are the main obstacles to an agreement, Frost said.Just one more round of talks remains before politicians meet in June to decide on the way forward, with both sides aiming to strike a deal around October. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has repeatedly ruled out extending the deadline, raising the prospect of Britain ending its post-Brexit transition period on Dec. 31 without a free-trade deal, putting more pressure on an economy already reeling from the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-says-very-little-progress-made-toward-post-brexit-deal/story-bgsY93GCc05YsgvSfQTS4H.html
15-05-2020||World||Covid-19: Quarter of people dead in England had diabetes||The first breakdown of underlying health conditions among the victims of coronavirus in England shows that a quarter of 22,332 people who passed away since March 31 were diabetic, reinforcing initial data that the disease makes recovery more difficult.The data from NHS England released on Thursday shows that people with dementia or lung problems are also among those most at risk of dying after contracting the virus. Health officials consider people of Indian and Asian origin in the UK particularly prone to diabetes.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageOf the 22,332 people who died in England hospitals between March 31 and May 12, 5,873 (26%) suffered from either type 1 or type 2 diabetes, the figures reveal, adding that the number of dead categorised as ‘Indian’ rose to 665.Partha Kar, NHS England’s special adviser on diabetes, said: “It is clear that people with diabetes are more at risk of dying from Covid-19. More detailed analysis is currently underway to understand the link between the two, although initial findings indicate that the threat in people under 40 continues to be very low.”The NHS England data complements that of the Office for National Statistics (ONS) released last week, showing “significantly higher” risk of death from the virus among Indian and other non-white communities than the white community.The ONS said Indian and other non-white males are 4.2 times more likely to die from a Covid-19-related death and non-white females are 4.3 times more likely than white ethnicity males and females. The UK’s Indian-origin population is estimated to number 1.5 million.The ONS said: “People of Bangladeshi and Pakistani, Indian, and mixed ethnicities also had a statistically significant raised risk of death involving Covid-19 compared with those of White ethnicity”.According to Kamlesh Khunti, a medical expert at the University of Leicester, the reasons Indian and other non-white people figure more in the statistics, despite accounting for only 14 per cent of the UK population, include many coming from lower socioeconomic backgrounds, working in public-facing occupations, holding different cultural beliefs and behaviours or being at high risk of diseases such as diabetes and heart disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-quarter-of-people-dead-in-england-had-diabetes/story-xjgxy2j6U9azSULICqUG5N.html
15-05-2020||World||Coronavirus will put 4 million girls at risk of child marriage in next 2 yrs: Global Charity||Four million girls are at risk of child marriage in the next two years because of the new coronavirus pandemic, a global charity said on Friday, as campaigners warned that the crisis could undo decades of work to end the practice.Deepening poverty caused by the loss of livelihoods is likely to drive many families to marry off their daughters early, World Vision said.“When you have any crisis like a conflict, disaster or pandemic rates of child marriage go up,” the charity’s child marriage expert Erica Hall told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.“If we don’t start thinking about how to prevent it now it will be too late. We can’t wait for the health crisis to pass first.”Campaigners said the risks were exacerbated by the fact that schools were closed and organisations working to combat child marriage were finding it harder to operate during lockdowns.The pandemic is also making it more difficult for girls to access reproductive health services which could lead to a rise in teenage pregnancies and increased pressure to marry.Worldwide, an estimated 12 million girls are married every year before the age of 18 - nearly one girl every three seconds.A U.N. report last month predicted the pandemic could lead to an extra 13 million child marriages over the next decade.Girls Not Brides, a global partnership of 1,400 organisations working to end child marriage, said members were extremely worried.“People on the ground are saying this is looking bad. It’s likely we are going to see large numbers of child marriages,” said Girls Not Brides chief executive Faith Mwangi-Powell.“This is something I’ve heard from India, from Africa, from Latin America. Some are saying this could undo decades of work we’ve done to reduce child marriage.”She said school closures were a particular concern.“Schools protect girls. When schools shut the risks (of marriage) become very heightened,” said Mwangi-Powell.“Even post-COVID it’s likely many girls will not go back to school, which is very scary. We need to make sure they do.”World Vision’s Hall said there was already anecdotal evidence of a rise in child marriages in South Sudan, Afghanistan and India, where the charity recently worked with police to stop seven marriage after calls to helplines.Hall said there were fears some people would use lockdowns to conceal child marriages, but she expected the spike would come later as families struggle with the economic fallout.Parents may marry off girls as a way to reduce the number of children they have to support or to access dowries.“It really is a survival mechanism. Parents aren’t doing it maliciously - they just don’t see any alternative,” Hall said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-will-put-4-million-girls-at-risk-of-child-marriage-in-next-2-yrs-global-charity/story-3uEvZe4sckgdqO9u4MPNDM.html
15-05-2020||World||‘No benefit’ in hydroxychloroquine virus treatment: Studies||Treating COVID-19 patients with the malaria drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) had no positive effect and caused other health complications, two new studies showed Friday.The anti-inflammatory has been touted by US President Donald Trump among others as a potential “game changer”, after initial studies in lab settings showed it may be able to prevent the virus replicating. But several subsequent studies -- including one funded by the US government -- appear to have doused hopes that HCQ can help patients hospitalised with COVID-19. In the first study released Friday, researchers in France monitored 181 patients hospitalised with pneumonia due to COVID-19 and who needed oxygen. Eighty-four were treated with HCQ and 97 were not.They found no meaningful difference between the groups for either transfer to intensive care, death within seven days or developing acute respiratory distress syndrome within 10 days.“Hydroxychloroquine has received worldwide attention as a potential treatment for COVID-19 because of positive results from small studies,” said the authors of the research, published in the BMJ journal. “However, the results of this study do not support its use in patients admitted to hospital with COVID-19 who require oxygen.”A second study saw researchers in China split 150 COVID-19 patients in to two groups, one of which received HCQ.After four weeks tests revealed similar rates of sustained infection among both groups, though adverse reactions to treatment were more common in the HCQ group. Nor did the severity or duration of symptoms differ between each group.Hydroxychloroquine and a related compound chloroquine have been used for decades to treat malaria, as well as the autoimmune disorders lupus and rheumatoid arthritis.Last month the European Medicines Agency warned that there was no indication HCQ could treat COVID-19 and said some studies had seen serious and sometimes fatal heart problems in patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-benefit-in-hydroxychloroquine-virus-treatment-studies/story-in9GlwJn7MBCQSUwjn1pxN.html
15-05-2020||World||On claims of underreporting Covid-19 deaths, comeback from Russia||Russia has lashed out at news reports which said that the country is underreporting (by as much as 60 per cent) the number of fatalities due to coronavirus disease Covid-19.Articles in New York Times and Financial Times reported that Russia’s coronavirus death toll could be much higher than government officials are saying. The articles said that they were based on a spike in total mortality rates reported by officials in Moscow, who said the capital registered about 1,800 deaths more in April 2020 than the monthly average.Russia’s Foreign Ministry accused the two US-based publications of spreading “disinformation”.Russian officials have so far reported 642 deaths in April.Authorities say they are only counting deaths that are caused directly by the coronavirus and that since the pandemic came later to Russia, it was able to learn lessons from the experiences of western Europe.Russia as of Thursday had 2,52,245 confirmed coronavirus infections and 2,305 deaths. That put it behind only the United States in the number of infections, but 18th in the world in total deaths and 58th in deaths per million inhabitants.How Russia countsSome countries count everyone who died while infected in their total number of fatalities, others include cases where the virus is suspected to have played a role and some only count deaths directly caused by complications from the virus.Russia is on the conservative end of the scale, attributing fatalities to the coronavirus only when a death can be directly linked, most often through pneumonia.“If someone dies of a heart attack but has been diagnosed with Covid-19, the official cause of death will be heart attack,” said Sergei Timonin, a demographer from Moscow’s Higher School of Economics.Russia has one of the highest coronavirus testing rates in the world, with some six million carried out so far. The New York Times, meanwhile, said that its report was accurate because it was based on data released by an official state agency.But following the foreign ministry statement, some Russian lawmakers demanded that reporters from the newspapers be stripped of their accreditation, effectively banning them from working in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/on-claims-of-underreporting-covid-19-deaths-comeback-from-russia/story-fk1qSW2okc084PuDkbWpHM.html
15-05-2020||World||Taiwan rejects China’s main condition for WHO participation||Taiwan’s health minister rejected on Friday China’s main condition for the island to be able to take part in the World Health Organization (WHO) - that it accepts it is part of China - ahead of a key meeting of the body during a pandemic.Non-WHO member Taiwan has lobbied to take part as an observer in next week’s World Heath Assembly (WHA), drawing strong objections from Beijing, which considers Taiwan to be one of its provinces.Taiwan says the coronavirus pandemic has made it more urgent than ever that it be allowed proper access to the WHO.China says Taiwan can only participate under the “one China” principle, in which it accepts it is a part of China. China’s Foreign Ministry said on Thursday that Taiwan’s ruling Democratic Progressive Party refused to do this, and so the political foundation for Taiwan’s WHO participation had “ceased to exist”.Speaking at a news conference in Taipei to press home Taiwan’s desire to take part, Health Minister Chen Shih-chung said there was no way Taiwan would do this.“I have no way to accept something which does not exist,” Chen said, adding that Taiwan would not give up efforts to attend the health assembly, even though it has not received an invitation.The issue has taken on broader diplomatic significance thanks to the strong support from the United States and Japan in particular for Taiwan to attend the WHA, to China’s anger.China says it has the right to represent Taiwan on the international stage. Taiwan says that only its democratically elected government can speak for the island’s 23 million people.“We can represent our own people,” Taiwan Deputy Foreign Minister Kelly Hsieh told the same news conference in Taipei. “We hope the WHO can set aside political considerations, and be neutral and professional.”Taiwan attended the WHA as an observer from 2009-2016 when Taipei-Beijing relations were warmer.But China blocked further participation after the election of Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen, who China views as a separatist, an accusation she rejects.The WHO says it has no mandate to invite Taiwan to the WHA and that only member states can decide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taiwan-rejects-china-s-main-condition-for-who-participation/story-Xyg2ChRjdwQTKrarYZ7CYM.html
15-05-2020||World||Saudi oil rush threatens to disrupt stabilising US oil market||An armada of tankers filled with Saudi crude heading to American shores is raising concern that tanks may fill again just as a US glut shows signs of easing.Over 30 tankers laden are set to arrive in the US Gulf Coast and West Coast during May and June, according to ship tracking data compiled by Bloomberg. The more-than 50 million barrels of Saudi crude on the water threaten to disrupt a positive supply development: US crude stockpiles declined for the first time since January and inventories at the Cushing, Oklahoma storage hub contracted by the most in months.“The expected Saudi deliveries could push US inventories back to builds depending on their timing,” said Sandy Fielden, director of oil and products research at Morningstar Inc. “If the shipments land at a rate that isn’t balanced by falling production or an uptick in exports, then we’ll see a domestic build.”The oil industry has been on edge for months with onshore and offshore storage capacity levels tested worldwide due to ballooning oil inventories spurred by the Covid-19 demand slowdown. On the US West Coast, crude stockpiles are less than 5 million barrels short of reaching the region’s storage capacity.Data from the Energy Information Administration this week showed US crude production dropped for a sixth straight week to the lowest in nearly a year. But even though output is steadily declining, there are still volumes being produced that may have to jostle with Saudi deliveries for storage space.“If all the Saudi tankers unload, the crude they carry will offset during May almost all of the production reductions from March levels, effectively maintaining the current high storage filling rates,” Paola Rodriguez-Masiu, a senior oil market analyst at Rystad Energy, said in a note.Very Large Crude Carries, or VLCCs, headed for the US Gulf include Shaybah, Hong Kong Spirit and Dalma, ship tracking data show. Tankers en route to the Pacific Coast include Sea Jade and Sikinos I. The vessels, mainly supertankers, will deliver over 45 million barrels of Arabian crude to Gulf buyers and at least 7 million to Pacific users. The volume of oil arriving in May and June is equal to nearly a third of all Saudi crude delivered to the US last year.West Coast crude stockpiles are currently at 58.2 million barrels. The inventory picture is brighter on the US Gulf Coast, America’s refining belt. Crude inventories there are 88 million barrels shy of reaching total storage capacity.Still, the market is witnessing delays in discharging Saudi oil. For some ships, it has taken about two weeks to unload cargoes, about twice the usual time to finish the job as small ships that are needed to unload have become increasingly scarce.Oil imports from Saudi Arabia are not set to slow down anytime soon even as the kingdom deepens its production cuts and raises prices for June supply. Plus, a true demand recovery worldwide isn’t expected for at least another year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/saudi-oil-rush-threatens-to-disrupt-stabilising-us-oil-market/story-ZbujaHl3fLIi0Z95mp0K5O.html
15-05-2020||World||Urge Chinese authorities to free Panchem Lama, says United States||The United States has urged China to release Tibetan Buddhism’s 11th Panchen Lama, who was taken into captivity at the age of six by Chinese authorities. In 1995, a young Tibetan boy Gedhun Choekyi Nyima was recognised as the 11th Panchen Lama, the second highest spiritual authority in Tibetan Buddhism after Dalai Lama. Days later Nyima had disappeared, becoming the world’s youngest political prisoner. “We do not have any idea of the whereabouts, and yes, we continue to press the Chinese authorities to release the Panchen Lama and to let him free, and let the world know where he is,” Ambassador-at-Large for International Religious Freedom Sam Brownback told reporters during a conference call on Thursday. “And this takes on an increased interest as China continues to assert the right to appoint the next Dalai Lama, which they do not have the right to do,” Brownback said in response to a question. Meanwhile, the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF), in a statement, reiterated its call for the State Department to fill the vacancy for the Special Coordinator for Tibetan Issues. The appointment of the Special Coordinator for Tibetan Issues is mandated by the Tibetan Policy Act of 2002, however this position has been vacant since January 20, 2017. Previous Special Coordinators have been crucial to raising the profile of religious freedom issues in Tibet and mobilising government resources to address the issue, it said. “The Chinese Communist Party is attempting to erase the unique identity of Tibetan Buddhism,” noted USCIRF Commissioner Gary Bauer. “We need to utilise all of the policy tools available, including the position of Special Coordinator for Tibetan Issues, to confront this grave threat to religious freedom,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/urge-chinese-authorities-to-free-panchem-lama-says-united-states/story-0m4g4joQtNc1q6a9thlkPI.html
15-05-2020||World||Afghanistan defends offensive ops against Taliban after Russia’s caution||Afghanistan has said its decision to resume offensive operations against the Taliban and other terrorist groups following two attacks on Tuesday that killed scores of Afghans, including newborns, was a “legitimate defensive position”.Tuesday’s attack on the maternity hospital in Dasht-e-Barchi area of Kabul prompted Afghan President Ashraf Ghani to switch from an “active defensive” mode to an “offensive” mode and to resume attacks on the Taliban.The Taliban has distanced itself from the attack on the maternity hospital, which was carried out by four suicide attackers clad in military uniforms, according to reports in the Afghan media. All the attackers were also killed.“In order to keep its people secure and thwart such terrorist attacks, the Afghan government declared its legitimate defensive position against those who claim the responsibilities for such incidents,” Afghan ministry of foreign affairs said in a statement.Also read: India condemns attack on maternity hospital in Afghanistan capital“Undoubtedly, any country who would face such attacks ending with the martyrdom of infants and mothers, would take the same position. In fact, the Afghan government has made its best efforts for bringing sustainable peace, and would continue its efforts,” it added.The statement came after Russia’s presidential envoy Zamir Kabulov told TASS that Ghani’s order to launch an offensive against the Taliban and the suspension of the release of Taliban prisoners will halt the peace process in the war-ravaged nation.“This is regrettable because by his actions the head of the Kabul administration actually stalls the process of moving towards the launch of intra-Afghan negotiations. Such actions clearly indicate that Kabul is not much interested in the early launch of intra-Afghan talks,” Zamir Kabulov was quoted as saying by TASS.The Afghan foreign ministry said the government took an initiative and developed a peace plan in three articles—ceasefire during the coronavirus pandemic, immediate start of talks and release of prisoners from both sides. It pointed out that the proposal was firmly endorsed by neighbours and regional and international colleagues but there was “no positive respond from Taliban”. “Had the Taliban positively responded to that proposal, such terrorist attacks, no matter who is responsible for, could have been averted,” it said.Afghanistan called upon other nations to announce their endorsement of the peace proposal and persuade the Taliban to join the peace process.“It is evident, that those who haven’t positively responded should take the responsibility for having no progress in the peace process,” it said.“Peace is the most important priority of the Afghan government, meanwhile, the Afghan government would utilize all resources to ensure the security and defend its people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghanistan-defends-offensive-ops-against-taliban-after-russia-s-caution/story-X6ibXAoL6ebUeOl707ub1M.html
15-05-2020||World||US faces ‘darkest winter’ if response to Covid-19 doesn’t improve: Whistleblower||A whistleblower who says he was removed from his government post for raising concerns about coronavirus preparedness told a congressional hearing on Thursday that the United States could face “the darkest winter” of recent times if it does not improve its response to the pandemic. Hours after President Donald Trump railed against him on Twitter, whistleblower Rick Bright testified to a U.S. House of Representatives panel about readiness for the outbreak.Bright was removed last month as director of the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority, or BARDA, a part of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services responsible for developing drugs to fight the coronavirus.“What we do must be done carefully with guidance from the best scientific minds. Our window of opportunity is closing. If we fail to improve our response now, based on science, I fear the pandemic will get worse and be prolonged,” Bright said during his testimony.The pandemic has infected nearly 1.4 million people in the United States, gutted the economy and killed more than 82,000.Bright testified to the subcommittee on health that he would “never forget” an e-mail he got in January from a U.S. supplier of medical-grade face masks warning of a dire shortage.“He said ‘we are in deep shit. The world is. We need to act,’“ Bright said. “And I pushed that forward to the highest level that I could of HHS and got no response.”Bright testified that the U.S. still lacked a comprehensive plan for ensuring a supply of basic supplies like swabs needed to administer coronavirus tests. Trump, who has been pushing for the U.S. economy to reopen quickly, dismissed Bright as a “disgruntled employee” on Twitter on Thursday morning before the hearing begun.Later on Thursday, Trump told reporters at the White House that he had watched some of Bright’s hearing. “To me he’s nothing more than a really disgruntled, unhappy person,” Trump said, adding that he did not know Bright.“Everything he’s complaining about was achieved,” HHS Secretary Alex Azar told reporters.Earlier this week, leading U.S. infectious disease expert Dr. Anthony Fauci warned a Senate committee that a premature lifting of lockdowns could lead to additional outbreaks of the deadly coronavirus. Trump on Wednesday described Fauci’s warning as not acceptable. In a whistleblower complaint filed with a government watchdog last week, Bright said that he warned about the virus in January and was met with hostility from HHS leaders.Bright, who was reassigned to a new government job last month, said he was ousted from BARDA because he resisted efforts to push the drugs hydroxychloroquine and the related chloroquine as cures for COVID-19, the respiratory illness caused by the coronavirus.Bright said in the statement last month that the U.S. government has promoted the medicines as a “panacea” even though they “clearly lack scientific merit.”HHS spokeswoman Caitlin Oakley has disputed Bright’s account, saying in a statement on Tuesday that he was transferred to a job where he was entrusted to spend around $1 billion to develop diagnostic testing.“We are deeply disappointed that he has not shown up to work on behalf of the American people and lead on this critical endeavor,” Oakley said.Bright testified that he has not started his new government job because he has hypertension and took a medical leave.The House subcommittee was also hearing on Thursday from Mike Bowen, co-owner of Prestige Ameritech, the largest U.S. surgical mask producer.It was Bowen who sent Bright an email in January warning that the United States would run out of medical-grade face masks if it did not ramp up production, according to documents included in Bright’s whistleblower complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-faces-darkest-winter-if-response-to-covid-19-doesn-t-improve-whistleblower/story-NtQJ7F5Akr9FKW0xNUvuZP.html
15-05-2020||World||Covid-19: 10 countries with highest number of cases and fatalities||Global deaths linked to the novel coronavirus passed 300,000 on Thursday, while reported cases of the virus are approaching 4.5 million.About half of the fatalities have been reported by the United States, the United Kingdom and Italy.The first death linked to the disease was reported on January 10 in Wuhan, China. It took 91 days for the death toll to pass 1,00,000 and a further 16 days to reach 2,00,000, according to the Reuters tally of official reports from governments.It took 19 days to go from 200,000 to 300,000 deaths.Here’s a look at the countries with high incidence of Covid-19 deaths in the world:United StatesWith over 1.3 million total coronavirus cases, the US leads the global Covid-19 tally. According to the World Health organisation, the country has reported 80,695 Covid-19 fatalities which is the highest in the world. United KingdomMore than 33,000 people (33,186 to be exact) have succumbed to death in the United Kingdom so far, the World Health organisation data showed. Over 2.29 lakh cases of coronavirus have been reported in the UK till date.Italy The country has the third-highest number of Covid-19 fatalities in the world, and is just behind the UK. Italy has recorded 33,106 deaths due to Covid-19. Italy has more than 2.22 lakh coronavirus cases.SpainThe country has over 2.28 lakh Covid-19 infections. The country has seen 27,104 deaths due to the deadly disease.FranceThe country has witnessed over 27,029 Covid-19 fatalities till date. With nearly 1.4 lakh total coronavirus cases, it is among the top 10 worst hit nations in the world. BrazilThe Latin American country has emerged as the new global hotspot of the Covid-19 disease. It has seen 1,77,589 cases and 12,400 deaths due to coronavirus disease.BelgiumThe country has 53,981 Covid-19 cases and has recorded 8,843 deaths to date.GermanyGermany has 1,72,239 active coronavirus cases and recorded 7,723 deaths due to the coronavirus disease.IranIran is where one of the early outbreaks of Covid-19 was reported. It has now recorded 1,12,725 cases of coronavirus disease and 6,783 deaths.CanadaCanada has recorded 71,486 cases of Covid-19 and 5,209 deaths, according to WHO.Russia on the other hand, which has the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the world, has reported 2,305 Covid-19 deaths so far, the WHO said.With a spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases, Russia’s tally has gone past Britain to 2,52,245.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-10-countries-with-highest-number-of-cases-and-fatalities/story-b0s7F9aFybcjhBNQjngRHP.html
15-05-2020||World||Global Covid-19 deaths top 300k amid mental health warning||A mental illness crisis is looming as millions of people worldwide are surrounded by death and disease and forced into isolation, poverty and anxiety by the Covid-19 pandemic, United Nations health experts said on Thursday.“The isolation, the fear, the uncertainty, the economic turmoil - they all cause or could cause psychological distress,” said Devora Kestel, director of the World Health Organization’s (WHO) mental health department. The UN’s observation came as the worldwide death toll from the coronavirus disease crossed 300,000 on Thursday, according to Worldometer. Over 4.4 million people have been infected.Presenting a UN report and policy guidance on Covid-19 and mental health, Kestel said an upsurge in the number and severity of mental illnesses is likely, and governments should put the issue “front and centre” of their responses.“The mental health and wellbeing of whole societies have been severely impacted by this crisis and are a priority to be addressed urgently,” she said.The report highlighted several regions and sections of societies as vulnerable to mental distress - including children and young people isolated from friends and school, health care workers who are seeing thousands of patients infected with and dying from the new coronavirus.Emerging surveys are showing Covid-19’s impact on mental health globally. Psychologists say children are anxious and increases in cases of depression and anxiety have been recorded in many countries. Domestic violence is rising, and health workers are reporting an increased need for psychological support.Reuters last week reported from interviews with doctors and nurses in the US who said either they or their colleagues had experienced a combination of panic, anxiety, grief, numbness, irritability, insomnia and nightmares.Outside of the health sector, the WHO report said many people are distressed by the immediate health impacts and the consequences of physical isolation, while many others are afraid of infection, dying, and losing family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/global-covid-19-deaths-top-300k-amid-mental-health-warning/story-2dD884B0Eu2WwMqYIxAAjP.html
15-05-2020||World||Covid-19: Vatican to introduce temperature checks at St. Peter’s Basilica||People attending Masses in St. Peter’s and other papal basilicas in Rome will have their temperature checked as part of measures to contain the spread of coronavirus, the Vatican said on Thursday.It did not say when the new measures will take effect. Public Masses will resume in churches in Italy on Monday under strict conditions outlined in a protocol signed last week by Italy’s bishops conference and the government.St. Peter’s is on Vatican territory and the other three papal basilicas - St. Paul’s Outside the Walls, St. John’s In Lateran and St. Mary Major - have sovereign, extra-territorial status and so technically are not part of Italy.The new rules for churches in Italy include limiting numbers, distancing and masks but they do not impose thermal scanning, meaning the papal basilicas will have even stricter rules.Vatican spokesman Matteo Bruni said thermal temperature scanning will be used at least during services on Sundays and religious feast days.He said officials at each basilica will decide the maximum number of people who can safely enter and that Vatican police, Italian police and volunteers will control the flow.Bruni did not say when the new provisions would take effect and when Pope Francis would next say a Mass from the main altar of St. Peter’s.He is due to say a private Mass on Monday at a side chapel where the St. Pope John Paul is buried, to commemorate the 100th anniversary of John Paul’s birth.Thousands of people usually attend major papal events in St. Peter’s and the other basilicas but it is unlikely that those numbers will be allowed in again for some time.The pope has been saying Masses in either an empty St. Peter’s or the chapel in his residence and the faithful have been watching on television or the internet.Technically, St. Peter’s has remained open during the Italian lockdown, which began in early March, although only for private prayer and few people have entered because of increased security. It was still not clear when it and the other basilicas will be reopened to tourists.Italian museums will reopen on Monday but the reopening of the Vatican Museums, which received 7 million visitors last year, will likely be further delayed while safety measures are put in place, according to a Vatican source.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vatican-to-introduce-temperature-checks-at-st-peter-s-basilica/story-v6WnQ3xVxYiCnWFVas34WJ.html
15-05-2020||World||Covid-19 may spread via speech: Study||Microdroplets generated by speech can remain suspended in the air in an enclosed space for more than 10 minutes, a study published on Wednesday showed, underscoring their likely role in spreading Covid-19. Researchers at the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK) had a person loudly repeat the phrase “stay healthy” for 25 seconds inside a closed box.A laser projected into the box illuminated droplets, allowing them to be seen and counted. They stayed in the air for an average of 12 minutes, the study published in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the US (PNAS) showed.Taking into account the known concentration of coronavirus in saliva, scientists estimated that each minute of loudly speaking can generate more than 1,000 virus-containing droplets capable of remaining airborne for eight minutes or more in a closed space. “This direct visualisation demonstrates how normal speech generates airborne droplets that can remain suspended for tens of minutes or longer and are eminently capable of transmitting disease in confined spaces,” the researchers conclude.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-may-spread-via-speech-study/story-IESOV6Mr7Lti16rdHgrWGL.html
15-05-2020||World||US health authorities issue alert over Covid-19 linked childhood illness||US health authorities issued an alert Thursday over a rare but sometimes deadly autoimmune condition among children that is believed to be linked to Covid-19.The illness, which the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) called multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C), was first reported in Britain in late April.“Healthcare providers who have cared or are caring for patients younger than 21 years of age meeting MIS-C criteria should report suspected cases to their local, state, or territorial health department,” said the CDC.The criteria include fever, multiple inflamed organs that cause severe illness requiring hospitalization, a confirmed active or recent coronavirus infection and no other plausible causes.The condition had previously been referred to as Pediatric Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome (PMIS) by the state of New York, where there have been more than a hundred reported cases, including at least three deaths.Doctors who have treated the illness say patients sometimes have symptoms similar to a rare condition called Kawasaki disease, which causes blood vessels throughout the body to swell, leading to extreme pain.The CDC said that physicians should “consider MIS-C in any pediatric death with evidence of SARS-CoV-2 infection,” referring to the virus that causes Covid-19. But it is not yet known if the condition is limited to children, the CDC added. Sunil Sood, a pediatrician at Cohen Children’s Medical Center in New York, told AFP that some children had very mild forms of illness, but about half of the patients that he and colleagues had seen had to be treated in intensive care for heart inflammation.The treatment involves injecting antibodies as well as administering steroids and aspirin in case patients experienced a sudden loss of blood pressure, called “shock.”He added that the cases mainly seemed to emerge four to six weeks after a child had been infected and had already developed antibodies.“They had the virus, the body fought it off earlier. But now there’s this delayed exaggerated immune response,” he said.Adding to the mystery, the cases were first reported in Europe and then in North America, but not in Asian countries such as China, Taiwan and South Korea where the virus first emerged.There has been speculation that certain populations may be more genetically susceptible and others less so, said Sood, though that theory is not confirmed.Six out of eight patients in a recent Lancet study from Britain were of Afro-Caribbean descent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-health-authorities-issue-alert-over-covid-19-linked-childhood-illness/story-qdm6NzYu0lRELHFx2Ms20I.html
15-05-2020||World||‘Billions of dollars’: Trump withdraws US pension fund from China investments||US President Donald Trump has confirmed that his administration has asked for the withdrawal of billions of dollars in American pension fund investments in China and that other similar actions were in consideration. The US and China relations have deteriorated after the coronavirus outbreak. The US has expressed disappointment over Beijing’s handling of the coronavirus which has claimed over 80,000 lives in America. China has also been accused of stealing Intellectual Property and research work. “Billions of dollars, billions... Yeah, I pulled it back,” Trump said on Fox Business News on Thursday when asked about reports that the US had pulled out billions of dollars of American pension funds in Chinese investment.Also Watch | Covid: Chinese hackers targeting US vaccine research? Donald Trump responds  In another question, the president was asked whether he will force Chinese companies to follow all conditions for being listed at the New York Stock Exchange and the NASDAQ. Chinese companies like Alibaba are listed on the New York Stock Exchange, but they do not report earnings -- the way an American company does, the interviewer said. “We are looking at that very strongly. It’s pretty amazing but here’s the problem with that. Let’s say we do that, right? So what are they going to do? They are going to move their listing to London or someplace else. You see?” Trump said. “Let’s say you want to get tough. You know everyone wants to be a tough guy. Look I am the toughest guy but what happens is they say ‘okay, we will move to London or we will go to Hong Kong’,” he said.Meanwhile, China is mulling actions against US lawmakers who have introduced a legislation in the Senate proposing sanctions against China for its handling of the coronavirus outbreak, according to news reports. “The Chinese government is lashing out at those who are appropriately trying to hold them accountable for intentionally misleading us about the nature of the novel coronavirus, where it was spreading and how quickly things were getting out of control. I consider their threats a badge of honour,” Congressman Jim Banks said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/billions-of-dollars-donald-trump-withdraws-us-pension-fund-from-china-investments/story-ngdcweSgNXzfxnXZWrYExI.html
15-05-2020||World||3 million more US layoffs due to Covid-19 pandemic intensify fears of lasting damage||Nearly 3 million laid-off workers applied for U.S. unemployment benefits last week as the viral outbreak forced more companies to slash jobs even though most states have begun to let some businesses reopen.Roughly 36 million people have now sought jobless aid in just the two months since the coronavirus first forced businesses to close down and shrink their workforces, the government said Thursday. An additional 842,000 people applied for aid last week through a separate program for self-employed and gig workers.All told, the figures point to a job market gripped by its worst crisis in decades and an economy that is sinking into a deep downturn. The pace of new applications for aid has declined over the past several weeks but is still four times the record high that prevailed before the coronavirus struck hard in March.The waves of job cuts have heightened concerns that additional government aid, on top of the nearly $3 trillion already allocated, is necessary to sustain the economy. Without another aid package, many economists worry that thousands of small businesses will go bankrupt, leaving millions of the unemployed with no job to return to. And state and local governments, facing huge revenue shortfalls, could be forced to lay off millions more workers and cut services.Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell this week stressed his belief that Congress should consider providing additional rescue money to avoid prolonging an economic catastrophe.Republicans in Congress are locked in a standoff with Democrats, who have proposed trillions more in aid. Republican leaders say they want to first see how the previous rescue packages affect the economy and have expressed skepticism about approving much more spending now. That sentiment has alarmed some economists.“There really isn’t any sign that the labor market is bottoming out yet,” said Daniel Zhao, senior economist at Glassdoor, the career website.The Trump administration insists that as states reopen, more Americans will shop, dine out and resume other activities, thereby stimulating the economy. But early data suggests it is fear of contracting the virus, even more than shutdown orders, that may be impairing the economy. Without stronger public health measures, such as widespread testing or a vaccine, economists say such fear will depress growth even as more states reopen their economies.Even though Georgia reopened its restaurants for sit-down dining late last month, Adam Ozimek, chief economist at Upwork, said data from the reservation site OpenTable shows that reservations are still 91% below their pre-virus level.“Simply ending lockdowns is not going to be a panacea for these companies,” Ozimek said. “People aren’t going out because they don’t feel safe yet.”The number of people seeking unemployment benefits actually rose last week in Georgia, as well as in Florida, which has also started to reopen. In Florida, that increase likely reflects a troubled system that caused a belated processing of claims that had been filed earlier.A few other states that have lifted some restrictions, like South Carolina and Texas, reported declines in jobless claims.President Donald Trump appeared to respond to the report by tweeting, “Good numbers coming out of States that are opening. America is getting its life back!”In Ohio, shopping malls have reopened for the first time since March but have seen little traffic. Roughly two-thirds of the stores in one mall outside Toledo were still closed Tuesday.Ozimek pointed to signs that business failures are rising. A survey by the Census Bureau, released Thursday, found that 41% of small businesses have closed temporarily since the pandemic hit. Other research has found that half of small businesses lack enough cash to survive longer than a month without revenue.“Those are the signs that we’ve stretched the economy too far, and it’s starting to tear,” Ozimek said.State and local governments, which cut nearly 1 million workers in April, are running out of money and collectively posing a threat to the national economy. The recession will likely produce the sharpest plunge in state tax revenue since the center began tracking such data in the early 1970s, said Lucy Dadayan, senior research associate at the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center.About two-thirds of the states have reported data for April, with most showing worrisome declines. California’s tax revenue fell 65% compared with a year earlier. New Jersey’s dropped 59%, Pennsylvania’s 51%. Sales tax revenue has shrunk as consumer spending has tumbled. And income taxes have been diminished by the widespread job losses.Spending by states and localities plays a vital role in the national economy: It amounted to $2.33 trillion last year — 11% of the U.S. gross domestic product. States and localities employed nearly 20 million workers in February.In the meantime, jobless workers in some states are still reporting difficulty applying for or receiving benefits. These include free-lance, gig and self-employed workers, who became newly eligible for jobless aid this year.Kelly Kelso, a stage crew member in Nashville, filed for unemployment aid after her company, Live Nation, canceled all summer tours. She has no idea when touring will resume. She applied in late March but hasn’t received a single check. And she can’t get answers.“I’ve probably called a hundred times and been disconnected every time,” Kelso said.Kelso’s partner is a self-employed musician who finally began receiving unemployment benefits after five weeks. But for the couple, who have a 5-year-old son, money is scarce. Their landlord is demanding rent.The latest jobless claims follow a devastating jobs report last week. The unemployment rate soared to 14.7% in April, the highest rate since the Great Depression, and employers shed 20.5 million jobs. A decade’s worth of job growth was wiped out in a single month.Even those figures failed to capture the full scale of the damage. Many workers in April were counted as employed but absent from work but should have been counted as temporarily unemployed.Millions of other laid-off workers didn’t look for a new job in April, likely discouraged by their prospects in a mostly shuttered economy, and weren’t included, either. If all those people had been counted as unemployed, the jobless rate would have reached nearly 24%.Most economists have forecast that the official unemployment rate could hit 18% or higher in May before potentially declining by summer.___AP Writers Martin Crutsinger and Travis Loller in Nashville contributed to this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/3-million-more-us-layoffs-due-to-covid-19-pandemic-intensify-fears-of-lasting-damage/story-PK6VitWJy1T2rEAMUWDDPK.html
15-05-2020||World||‘Not happy right now’: Trump rules out US renegotiating trade deal with China||US President Donald Trump has ruled out renegotiating the trade deal with China and expressed disappointment over Beijing’s handling of the coronavirus outbreak, which has spread across the world killing over 3,00,000 people, including 80,000 in America.  The US and China in the beginning of the year signed Phase-1 of a trade deal, ending a bitter two-year tariff war that had rattled the global economy. “The Chinese said somewhere that they would like to renegotiate the (trade) deal. We are not going to renegotiate,” Trump told Fox Business News on Thursday. “Look, I’m not happy about anything having to do with that particular subject (China) right now. Everything I said turned out to be right. You look at other countries they charge us tariffs to do business and we are not allowed to charge them,” he said. Responding to a question, Trump said the Chinese have always stolen Intellectual Property (IP) from the US. “They were never called (out). Now they are being called out,” he said. “We can stop them, they are going to try doing it. I mean you could also stop doing business with them, that is one thing. Look, we have lost a fortune dealing with China. We have rebuilt China,” he said. “They have done a great job but the people sitting in this seat (The Oval Office) have allowed them to rip us off like you’ve never seen before and that includes President (Barack) Obama and (Joe) Biden ‘sleepy Joe’. He allowed them to rip this country off. We spent hundreds of billions, we gave them hundreds of billions of dollars year-in and year-out,” Trump said. The president said he does not want to speak to Chinese President Xi Jinping right now. “I have a very good relationship, but I just -- right now I don’t want to speak to him,” he said. There are many things that the United States can do, he asserted. “There are many things we could do. We could do things, we could cut off the whole relationship. Now if you did what would happen? You would save USD 500 billion, if you cut off the whole relationship. Look, at what point does -- and I said this for years I said it with other countries also you know -- China is not the only country ripping us off at the NATO where we defend Europe for nothing by the way essentially nothing I was able to get them to pay hundreds of billions of dollars more,” he said. The coronavirus, which first emerged in China’s Wuhan city in December last, has killed over 3,00,000 people with 4.3 million confirmed cases across the world. More than a quarter of all confirmed COVID-19 cases are from the US. There has been increasing pressure on the President Trump, in the last several weeks, to take action against China as lawmakers and opinion-makers feel that the COVID-19 spread across the world from Wuhan because of Chinese inaction. Trump and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo have claimed that the deadly virus originated from the Wuhan Institute of Virology. The United States has repeatedly asked China to allow the international community to go into the laboratory in Wuhan for investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/not-happy-right-now-trump-rules-out-us-renegotiating-trade-deal-with-china/story-dpgWcbqd9T9QOQp5kTXL3L.html
15-05-2020||World||Sanofi CEO pledges virus vaccine for all after French backlash||Sanofi chief executive Paul Hudson said on Thursday it was vital that any coronavirus vaccine reach all parts of the world, after angering the French government earlier by saying some countries would get priority access.But the CEO of the French pharmaceutical giant stood firm on the need for a faster, more collaborative European effort in the hunt for a vaccine to the new coronavirus that has killed over 298,000 globally and crippled economies worldwide.Hudson told Bloomberg on Wednesday that vaccine doses produced in the United States could go to U.S. patients first, given the country had supported the research financially.French Prime Minister Edouard Philippe had said there should be no favourites in the roll-out of an eventual vaccine. Equal access was non-negotiable, he said. Hudson said on Thursday it was vital that any coronavirus vaccine reach all regions and he was sorry that his earlier remarks had created such a storm.“I have been campaigning on European readiness to treat COVID-19 for months, building capacity in Europe, making sure we are ready, getting governments in the EU aligned,” Hudson told an event organised by the Financial Times.Sanofi, which has urged stronger European coordination in the hunt for a vaccine and has U.S. financial support, clarified that any such vaccine would be made available to all.There is no vaccine and no known treatment for COVID-19, the respiratory disease caused by the new coronavirus. Drugmakers are racing to develop what would be a lucrative prize, but have sought financial support to mitigate the risks.Sanofi is working on two vaccine projects against COVID-19. One is with British rival GlaxoSmithKline Plc that has received financial support from the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA) of the U.S. Health Department, and the other with U.S. company Translate Bio that will use a different technology.“NON-NEGOTIABLE”Given the support from BARDA, doses produced by Sanofi in the United States are expected to go to U.S. patients first, a prospect that has raised concern in Europe.“A vaccine against COVID-19 should be a public good for the world. The equal access of all to the virus is non-negotiable,” Philippe said on Thursday.Philippe said he had reinforced this message to Sanofi’s chairman, Serge Weinberg, who in return had assured the prime minister of the distribution in France of any Sanofi vaccine.Hudson’s initial comments upset President Emmanuel Macron, an Elysee palace official said. A presidency official will meet with Sanofi representatives next week, the official added. Sanofi has 18 production sites in France.Hudson said Europe lacked a body akin to BARDA. “That model does not exist in Europe,” he said, even though there was support from governments to establish one. The controversy has raised questions over whether Europe has been too slow to respond in terms of organising and funding vaccine research. Sanofi reiterated on Thursday that the United States had moved more quickly in this regard.The charity Oxfam said pharmaceutical companies should not be able to decide “who lives and who dies”.Officials meeting at the World Health Assembly next week must demand that vaccines and tests are patent-free, Oxfam said in a statement. They should also be distributed equitably to all countries.“Governments must work together to stop corporations profiteering from the pandemic and save the lives of people across the globe,” Oxfam said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sanofi-ceo-pledges-virus-vaccine-for-all-after-french-backlash/story-5VJOYAbfYxuXCisjdEK1OK.html
15-05-2020||World||Trump threatens to cut off whole relationship with China||US President Donald Trump on Thursday threatened to cut off the whole relationship with China in response to the spread of the novel coronavirus across the world that has killed nearly 300,000 people globally, including over 80,000 in America.“There are many things we could do. We could cut off the whole relationship,” Trump told Fox Business News in an interview. There has been increasing pressure on the president, in the last several weeks, to take action against China as lawmakers and opinion makers feel that the COVID 19 spread across the world from Wuhan because of Chinese inaction.Responding to a question, Trump said that he does not want to speak to Chinese President Xi Jinping right now. “I have a very good relationship, but I just -- right now I don’t want to speak to him,” he said, adding that he is very disappointed with China. The United States has repeatedly asked China to allow the international community to go into a Wuhan lab to investigate the origins of coronavirus.“We asked to go over and they said no. They didn’t want our help. And I figured that was OK because they must know what they are doing. So it was either stupidity, incompetence or deliberate,” Trump said.Trump and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo have claimed that the deadly virus originated from the Wuhan Institute of Virology in the central Chinese city of Wuhan, where the outbreak was first detected last December.China has denied covering up the extent of its coronavirus outbreak and accused the US of attempting to divert the public attention by insinuating that the virus originated from a virology laboratory in Wuhan. PTI LKJ ZH ZH||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-threatens-to-cut-off-whole-relationship-with-china/story-mtBJKweD8wuYGi5f09cRuO.html
15-05-2020||India||Rahul takes jibe at Niti Aayog over ‘zero cases’ graph||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday took a jibe at the Niti Aayog over one of its predictions that the nationwide lockdown would ensure that India sees no fresh coronavirus cases from May 16.“The geniuses at Niti Aayog have done it again. I’d like to remind you of their graph predicting the govt’s national lockdown strategy would ensure no fresh Covid cases from tomorrow, May the 16th,” Gandhi tweeted.The Congress leader also posted a graph projected by the government at the time. According to the graph, Covid-19 cases in India saw a sudden spike from April 2, and peaked on April 18. The graph was predicted to descend from April 24 and see a complete dip on May 16, suggesting zero cases.In a statement issued on Friday, the government think tank clarified, “Niti Aayog examines and analysis various epidemiological models. In a presentation, its member ( health) has presented various models as presented by outside experts. It is a theoretical model like several made by epidemiologists around the world. It should be read in that context and not literally. The said graph presents factual cases till date along with a trend line. No claim was made as to zero case by May 16, as is being incorrectly inferred.”Reacting to a comment on the tweet, Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said, “Blatant falsehood and a lie. I have never tweeted this nor is this my slide. Please don’t attribute it to me.”In his press conferences on April 16 and May 8, Gandhi had insisted that the lockdown is not a solution to defeat Covid-19 but a pause button. He stressed the need for having a comprehensive exit strategy in place to ensure that the coronavirus does not come back once the restrictions are lifted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-takes-jibe-at-niti-aayog-over-zero-cases-graph/story-q1s3jGCXg1YDWLr9lJF7SL.html
15-05-2020||India||Covid 19 latest update: 14 of Uttarakhand’s 82, 834 returnees have turned positive so far||Fourteen people who have returned to Uttarakhand from other states have turned Covid-19 positive, including one 29-year-old man who came from Delhi with his mother and tested positive on Friday in Dehradun.According to the government officials, till Friday evening, over 2.12 lakh people had registered on the state website to return to Uttarakhand. Of these, the state government has so far brought back 82, 834 people through trains and buses, while over 6,000 people have returned to the state in their own vehicles. 33,990 people have registered with the government to return to their respective states from Uttarakhand. Of these, 16,229 have been sent to their respective states. On Friday one person tested positive in Dehradun, taking the total to 79 cases in Uttarakhand. 50 of these have recovered, leaving 28 active cases.Friday’s patient was Dehradun’s 40th in total and the 11th active case. The doubling rate in the past seven days in the district has come down to 29.86 from 167.38 days on Tuesday.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesJC Pandey, public relations officer (PRO), state health department, said, the 29-year-old man from Dehradun was tested at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Rishikesh. “This man had come with his mother from Delhi. His mother had tested Covid-19 positive on May 13,” he said.After Dehradun’s 40, US Nagar has reported the most infections at 16, followed by 12 in Nainital, 7 in Haridwar, 2 in Almora and one each in Uttar Kashi and Pauri Garhwal.The state has nine containment zones including five in Dehradun, two in Haridwar and one each in Nainital and US Nagar.On Thursday, six people including a ten-year-old girl with travel history from New Delhi tested positive for Covid-19. Three cases were detected in Udham Singh Nagar, while other three were from Dehradun district, including a 36-year-old woman, who became the first positive case to be reported in the hill station of Mussoorie.Authorities in Uttarakhand are worried about the possibility of some among the huge mass returning to the state carrying the infection with them. Last week, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat had acknowledged it as a big challenge. “The state is expecting at least 2-2.25 lakh migrants to return, of which about 25,000 are expected to be infected,” the chief minister had said during a Facebook live session.On May 13, Uttarakhand High Court had expressed concern over many returning migrants testing positive for Covid-19 and sought to know from the state and the Central government if it was possible to medically examine each person before they were allowed to return to the state since merely thermal screening was ‘not enough’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-latest-update-14-of-uttarakhand-s-82-834-returnees-have-turned-positive-so-far/story-F7Zjk3JWJGx8aKVMzcB1FN.html
15-05-2020||India||Top court stays HC order asking TN to shut liquor shops||The Supreme Court paved the way on Friday for the resumption of liquor sale through state-run outlets in Tamil Nadu, staying the Madras high court (HC)’s orders that directed the closure of such stores operated by the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (TASMAC).A bench headed by justice L Nageswara Rao, however, orally observed that the ultimate decision on whether liquor should be sold and how the sale should be made rests with the government.“Issue notice. In the meanwhile, there shall be ad interim stay of orders dated 6.5.2020 and 8.5.2020 passed by the High Court of Judicature at Madras,” the bench, which also comprised justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and BR Gavai, said. In a May 1 order, the central government allowed states to sell liquor in standalone shops and said social distancing should be followed in such outlets.Subsequently, the Tamil Nadu government issued a public notice on May 4, announcing that TASMAC outlets, which were shut since the lockdown was imposed on March 25, would reopen on May 7.But on a public interest litigation by one B Ramkumar Adityan, the high court passed an order on May 6, regulating the sale of liquor. It ordered that “not more than two bottles of 750 ml each (including wine, beer etc.) of any one type will be sold to one customer at a time”.Further, it directed that a customer cannot make purchase of liquor more than twice a week. Directions were also issued to encourage online payment instead of cash payment.The Tamil Nadu government and TASMAC, which approached the Supreme Court against the HC order, said when TASMAC outlets opened on May 7 after a 44-day shutdown, the high court directions led to overcrowding and worsened the queues.​Then, in another order on May 8, the high court directed that TASMAC can sell liquor only through online mode, after the reopening of liquor outlets on May 7 led to overcrowding and long queues outside the outlets.This direction was reiterated by the Madurai bench of the high court on May 11 in another ​case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-court-stays-hc-order-asking-tn-to-shut-liquor-shops/story-Sf9ECR4KNnkvm5Y3Kw5fTN.html
15-05-2020||India||SC judge, family in quarantine after cook tests positive||A Supreme Court judge and his family members have quarantined themselves after their cook tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Thursday.The cook went on leave on May 7 and might have contracted the disease while he was away, according to people aware of the developments. But the judge, who till recently heard cases through video conferencing, quarantined himself along with his family as a precautionary step.On April 27, a 37-year old employee at the Supreme Court tested positive for Covid-19.Two registrars of the court, who had interacted with the employee, and various security personnel at the court were placed in quarantine.The Supreme Court, which is shut down due to the coronavirus outbreak, has been hearing only extremely urgent cases since March 23 via video conferencing without the personal presence of lawyers. The top court issued a circular on March 23, suspending entry of lawyers and litigants to the court premises and directing that only extremely urgent cases will be taken up for hearing through video conferencing during the lockdown period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-judge-family-in-quarantine-after-cook-tests-positive/story-E0hlJHT0794YoJHEBdpAlN.html
15-05-2020||India||Rajnath approves Rs 400-cr scheme for testing infrastructure||NEW DELHI: Defence minister Rajnath Singh has approved a Rs 400-crore scheme for creating testing infrastructure in the defence sector, the ministry said in a statement on Friday. Called the Defence Testing Infrastructure Scheme, it will run for five years and envisages the setting up of six to eight modern testing facilities in partnership with the private sector.The majority of the testing facilities are expected to come up in the two defence industrial corridors (DICs) in Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, officials said. The scheme, however, will not be limited to setting up facilities in the DICs only.The scheme is aimed at giving a boost to domestic defence and aerospace manufacturing. “This will facilitate indigenous defence production and consequently reduce import of military equipment and help make the country self-reliant,” the statement said, adding that the projects under the scheme will be given up to 75% government funding.The remaining 25% of the cost will be borne by the special purpose vehicle (SPV) whose constituents will be Indian private entities and the state governments.The SPVs under the scheme will be registered under the Companies Act 2013 and operate and maintain assets “in a self-sustainable manner by collecting user charges,” the ministry said. The equipment tested will be certified as per appropriate accreditation, it added.The draft Defence Production Policy-2018 visualises India as one of the top five countries in the aerospace and defence sectors in the coming years, with defence goods and services accounting for a turnover of Rs 1.7 lakh crore by 2025. It also seeks to drastically reduce India’s dependence on imported military hardware over the next five years.Despite pursuing the Make in India programme vigorously to reduce military imports, the country was the second-largest arms importer in the world over the last five years, according to data published by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-approves-rs-400-cr-scheme-for-testing-infrastructure/story-hTSBejn6TT7lhHlLn21UOM.html
15-05-2020||India||More lockdown relaxations in Telangana as active Covid-19 cases confined to 4 zones in Hyderabad||The Telangana government on Friday decided to further relax lockdown restrictions in the wake of the drop in active Covid-19 cases in the state, except in the four containment zones in Hyderabad.“Starting Saturday, shops selling air conditioners, automobile spare parts and automobile showrooms will be permitted to open all over the state, including Hyderabad. Stamps and Registration department and Road Transport Authority offices would also be open,” chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao announced after a high-level meeting on Friday night.He said the nationwide lockdown would come to an end on May 17 and there was a possibility of the Centre releasing some more guidelines in this regard. “The state will examine those guidelines, review the situation and finalise the future course of strategy and implement the same,” KCR said.The chief minister said Covid-19 in Telangana was confined to just four zones in Hyderabad – L B Nagar, Malakpet, Charminar and Karawan where there were active cases. “There are 1442 families in these areas. Some migrant labourers in Yadadri Bhongir, Jangaon and Mancherial have tested positive for the virus but not people from these districts. Hence it cannot be counted among the three districts having positive cases,” he pointed out.In the four containment zones where there are Covid-19 positive cases, lockdown restrictions should be implemented stringently. All those who had symptoms were identified and are being treated, he said.Stating that there was nothing to be scared of Covid-19 for now, as a majority of people were recovering from the virus, he said, “In the Telangana, the percentage of people who died due to Covid-19 was only 2.38%, compared to the national average of 3.5%. We don’t know how long this virus will be with us. Hence, we have to adopt a strategy to live with it and we have no option,” the chief minister said.He, however, instructed officials concerned to take precautionary measures to prevent seasonal diseases that may break out during the rainy season, while continuing the efforts to contain the spread of coronavirus in the Telangana.KCR also cautioned the officials about people coming from abroad and also from other states by trains and other routes. “We have to conduct tests on everybody, including migrant labourers. Those who show symptoms should be shifted to hospitals and others to quarantine centres,” he said.Telangana reported 40 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the state’s tally to 1454. Of the new cases, 33 were from Greater Hyderabad and the remaining were those of migrants. No fresh deaths were reported for the third consecutive day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-lockdown-relaxations-in-telangana-as-active-covid-19-cases-confined-to-4-zones-in-hyderabad/story-D84Noe6NYY4gPEFblXZTeK.html
15-05-2020||India||Over 56,000 stranded J-K residents brought back home||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has brought back home over 56,000 people who were stranded in various parts of the country due to coronavirus lockdown, officials said on Friday. While 49,218 people were brought through Lakhanpur in buses, as many as 7,264 arrived on special trains in Jammu and Udhampur so far, they said. The Rajdhani Express from Delhi brought over 900 stranded J and K residents to Jammu in the morning while two trains -- one from Delhi and another from Aligarh -- reached Railway station Udhampur with 523 and 781 passengers respectively, an official spokesperson said. Udhampur Deputy Commissioner Piyush Singhla said the district administration has made elaborate arrangements for reception and departure of the passengers to their homes in different districts of the UT. “Corona warriors are facilitating the returnees to reach their homes,” he said. Singhla said authorities are ensuring strict adherence to the guidelines issued by the Ministries of Home Affairs and the Health and Family Welfare regarding the Covid-19 management during the boarding and de-boarding process.  As per an official communique, of 49,218 returnees coming via Lakhanpur till May 15, 11,513 came from Punjab, 18,286 from Himachal Pradesh, 3,905 from Delhi, 650 from Gujrat, 1,538 from Rajasthan, 2,401 from Haryana, 96 from Chhattisgarh, 2,666 from Uttarakhand, 326 from Maharashtra, 2,766 from Uttar Pradesh, 42 from Odhisa, 35 from Assam, 814 from Madhya Pradesh, 88 from Dehradun, 486 from Chandigarh, 316 from Telangana, 142 from Bihar and 3,148 from other states and UTs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-56-000-stranded-j-k-residents-brought-back-home/story-Z1lWBRoiwaPOQTpudVK4nK.html
15-05-2020||India||NIA files chargesheet against 6 in killing of J&K BJP leader, brother||The National Investigation Agency on Friday filed a chargesheet against six people, including three slain Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) terrorists and three arrested overground workers of the terror group for providing support to Pakistan-based terrorists to kill BJP leader Anil Parihar and his brother Ajeet Parihar in Jammu’s Kishtwar.The chargesheet has been filed in the special NIA Court, Jammu against the six accused under Sections 302, 120B, 109 and 34 of the Ranbir Penal Code, Sections 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 38, 39 and 40 of the UA(P) Act and Section 25(1A) and 25 of the Arms Act.The Parihar brothers were shot at point-blank range outside their house on November 1, 2018, when they were returning home after closing their shop.Initially, a case was registered by the Jammu Police at Kishtwar. The case was subsequently taken over by NIA.During the investigation, accused Nisar Ahmed Sheikh, Nishad Ahmed Butt and Azad Hussain Bagwan, all residents of Kishtwar were arrested in November 2019.These three accused had provided logistic support to the three terrorists—Osama-bin-Javid, Haroon Abbas Wani and Zahid Hussain, who had killed the Parihar brothers.The investigation unearthed the larger conspiracy of these terrorists and the overground workers of Hizb who were attempting to revive terrorism in the Doda region.These terrorists not only carried out the murder of Parihar brothers but also carried out three other terrorist acts in Kishtwar in 2019.In furtherance of the said conspiracy led by Jahangir Saroori, commander of the terror outfit in Kishtwar district, the accused persons devised ways and means to raise funds to sustain the activities of the banned terrorist organisation.It may be stated here that Osama-bin-Javid, Haroon Abbas Wani and Zahid Hussain were killed during different encounters that took place between the Hizbul Mujahideen cadres and security forces in Ramban and Doda districts in September 2019 and January this year.Further investigation continues against absconding accused Jahangir Saroori and others involved in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-files-chargesheet-against-6-in-killing-of-j-k-bjp-leader-brother/story-SrHCS4XafxYiTd3V2GzeGN.html
15-05-2020||India||3 migrant labourers dead, 14 hurt as truck hits two vehicles||Three migrant labourers going to Uttar Pradesh from Maharashtra were killed and 14 others injured after a truck rammed into two vehicles on Guna bypass on the Agra-Mumbai national highway on Friday evening, a senior police official said.The speeding truck first collided head-on with the pick-up van carrying 15 migrant labourers before hitting another truck that was behind the van, Guna district Superintendent of Police (SP) Tarun Nayak said.“Two labourers died on the spot, while the third one succumbed to his injuries on way to a hospital. Twelve others travelling in the van were left injured,” he said.“Besides them, two persons sitting in the truck that was behind the van, also suffered injuries in the accident.All of them were admitted to the district hospital,” the official said.Five of the injured are in a serious condition and were referred to Gwalior for treatment, he said.Two of the deceased labourers belong to Ghazipur town in Uttar Pradesh and the third one is of Azamgarh town from the same state. They were identified as Mahesh Prajapati (35), Pramod Pal (24) and Deepak Prajapati (34), he added.On Thursday, eight migrant labourers were killed when an empty bus hit a truck carrying them to Uttar Pradesh from Maharashtra. One more person had later succumbed to the injuries in the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-migrant-labourers-dead-14-hurt-as-truck-hits-two-vehicles/story-vS6stvXq58fPz12NRQp2fP.html
15-05-2020||India||Man held for bribing navy personnel for information: NIA||A 49-year-old resident of Mumbai, suspected to have links with spies in Pakistan, has been arrested for allegedly bribing navy personnel in exchange for classified information, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) said on Friday.Mohammed Haroon Lakdawala used to travel to Karachi on the pretext of cloth trade, according to an NIA statement. During one such visit, he came in contact with two spies, Akbar and Rizwan, who asked him to make deposits into the bank accounts of 11 navy personnel, the statement said.The spy ring was busted on December 2019 by the Andhra Pradesh police in collaboration with central agencies such as the Intelligence Bureau and the Research and Analysis Wing. NIA took over the probe in late December.Security agencies dubbed it “Operation Dolphin Nose”, a reference to the hill next to the Eastern Naval Command in Visakhapatnam, where naval offices and a residential complex are located. In all, 14 people including 11 navy personnel — many from Vishakhapatnam — and a Pakistani-born Indian national, Shaista Qaiser, have been arrested in the case.According to NIA, Pakistan-based spies recruited agents in India to collect sensitive and classified information on the movement of naval ships, submarines and location of other defence establishments. The navy personnel, who were compromised, came in contact with Pakistani nationals through various social media platforms. The payments were made via Lakdawala.Investigators earlier told HT that the navy personnel, mostly sailors, did not reveal any significant information and were paid between Rs 5,000 and Rs 10,000.“Lakdawala was basically chosen to make payments to the sailors through different modes. For this, he received money from Pakistan. We are investigating if he was using hawala channels to receive funds from Pakistan and the number of visits he made to Karachi over the years,” said an NIA officer who didn’t wish to be named.NIA has found that the sailors who have been paid by Lakdawala didn’t have access to any sensitive or classified information, the officer added.After the spy ring was busted, the navy asked all its ranks on board warships, dockyards and naval bases to keep themselves away from social media and smartphones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-held-for-bribing-navy-personnel-for-information-nia/story-hZxh1QGthw8QfcvGgeTlUM.html
15-05-2020||India||40 new cases take Telangana’s tally to 1,454||Telangana reported 40 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the state’s tally to 1,454.The surge continued in Greater Hyderabad where 33 persons tested positive. Seven migrants were also found infected.According to the director of public health and family welfare, no deaths were reported on Friday. The death toll remained unchanged at 34.The day saw 13 persons being discharged from hospital on their recovery. With this, the number of people cured/discharged rose to 959. The number of active cases now stands at 461.With seven new cases among migrants, the total number of migrants tested positive rose to 44. All the cases were those who returned to the state from various parts of the country.The officials pointed out that large number of migrants are entering the state from across the country. The evacuees from other countries who are arriving at Hyderabad by designated flights are being screened at the airport and the symptomatic persons are tested for Covid-19.All migrants arriving by road and rail are being screened for symptoms at railway stations and at road border check posts.The asymptomatic migrants arriving in Telangana through various points of entry are quarantined at home and in government quarantine facilities. The symptomatic migrants are isolated and tested and for further course of action.The health authorities have appealed to people to inform the local officials in case they identify any new persons, migrants who have newly arrived in the towns and villages.--IANSms/vd||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/40-new-cases-take-telangana-s-tally-to-1-454/story-XYvM4occOGwMA1yK8drbYI.html
15-05-2020||India||Lockdown 4.0: UP favours easing more restrictions but migrants influx is causing worries||The Uttar Pradesh government appears to be in a dilemma over the extent of restrictions to be eased in lockdown version 4.0, following an influx of a large number of migrant labourers.For its part, the state government proposes to restart economic activity, including retail businesses, and open up industrial units in a phased manner but a senior state government officer admitted that the arrival of a large number of migrants posed a major challenge to the lifting of restrictions. About 13.5 lakh migrant labourers have arrived in the state by Friday.“The state government has forwarded its suggestions about lockdown-4 to the centre. The union government is likely to leave most of the decisions on easing restrictions to respective states. Only states know best about the prevailing situation,” said the officer on condition of anonymity.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesYogi, who held discussions with his ministers and officers in the past few days, asked senior officers to ensure that no one walked or used bike to travel back home and that migrants were instead provided with transport to reach respective destinations. He also asked senior officers to make an assessment about the availability of labourers in Noida and Greater Noida region.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19His observations have come a day after the state government forwarded its suggestions about lockdown-4 to the centre favouring opening up of the industrial units in a phased manner.“We understand the state government wants to restart industrial activity and retail businesses in a phased manner and this may be part of the preparatory exercise,” said an officer.The state government has also authorised district magistrates to allow industrial units to get skilled/unskilled workers from other districts.It may be mentioned that 119 sugar mills, 12,000 brick kilns and 2,500 cold storages etc were allowed to function through the lockdown. Most sugar mills have been involved in carrying out sanitisation of government buildings, public places and other areas while the distilleries have been manufacturing alcohol-based sanitisers.Meanwhile, the state government has issued fresh orders about changing the classification of containment zones/hotspots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-4-0-up-favours-easing-more-restrictions-but-migrants-influx-is-causing-worries/story-NPXqcii1wseOYnJXkUCvBL.html
15-05-2020||India||Will not allow combat readiness to be impacted by financial constraints: Army chief||Army Chief Gen M M Naravane on Friday said his force will not allow its combat readiness along the northern and western borders to be impacted by the financial constraints triggered by the coronavirus pandemic.In an interaction at a leading defence think-tank, Gen Naravane said a directive has been received from the government to cut expenditure by 20 per cent in the first quarter of 2020-21 and the Army is implementing it without compromising on its operational efficiency.He said several steps are being identified to cut expenditure which include deferment of holding of major exercises and restriction on movement of units from one peace-station to another.The Army Chief said the number of movement of units and battalions per year is between 250 to 300 and the Army is looking at suspending some of them.“Each movement costs us around Rs one crore. Units in high-altitude areas and units carrying out counter insurgency operations will have to move. However we can restrict movement of units from one peace station to another. We have identified 100 units who can stay in their current locations,” he said.“We will see what we can defer or scale down like exercise of troops,” Naravane said hinting that military exercises may not take place at least for a year.Gen Naravane at the same time said that there will be no cut in expenditure on account of purchase of arms and ammunition, asserting that operational efficiency along India’s active borders will not be compromised at all.Noting that defence expenditure contributes significantly to the country’s overall development, he said: “any investment on safety and security is actually an investment on growth”.To emphasise his point, Gen Naravane said the stock market had nosedived after the Pulwama terror attack but it surged significantly after India carried out the Balakot strikes.Talking about budgetary constraints, he said the ratio of revenue to capital budget continues to be a matter of concern for the Army.“We are a manpower-intensive Army. Requirement of manpower along the borders and for counter insurgency and counter terror operations are not going to go away any time soon. So we have to live with the situation of 80 per cent of our budget going into the revenue side,” he said.Asked about the possibility of India facing a two front war along the borders with China and Pakistan, Gen Naravane said it is a possibility and that the country will have to remain prepared to deal with such a scenario.“It is a possibility. It is not that it is going to happen every time. We have to be alive to all contingencies which can happen, various scenarios that can unfold. We have to remain alive to the possibility.“But to assume that in all cases both fronts would be 100 per cent active, I think that would be an incorrect assumption to make. In dealing with two front scenario, there will always be a priority front and a secondary front. That is how we look at dealing with this two front threat,” the Army chief said.He said the priority front would be addressed in a different manner while the secondary front will be kept as dormant as possible just to conserve resources to focus on the priority front.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-not-allow-combat-readiness-to-be-impacted-by-financial-constraints-army-chief/story-xFJjRqWuS0o2TsD7vqYJYJ.html
15-05-2020||India||Tripura to set up ‘corona jail’ for quarantine violators||The Tripura government on Friday declared to take stern action against persons who violate regulations of quarantine by accommodating them in ‘ corona jail.’“ We are taking random samples. The persons who are given home quarantine, should not go out. Their families should also stay under quarantine. If they don’t obey, the government will take action against them and will put them in police station. We will identify a corona jail for the quarantine regulations violators for the time being,” Law Minister Ratan Lal Nath told the media at Civil Secretariat on Friday late evening. He also informed that a three-member central team arrived here to probe into the source of outbreak of coronavirus in Border Security Force ( BSF) camps in Dhalai district where more than 150 positive cases were found this month. The team on Friday met additional chief secretary SK Rakesh, principal of Agartala Government Medical College ( AGMC) KK Kundu, BSF officials and also visited Covid-19 centres in Agartala. The team would visit Dhalai district on Saturday.The state government sought the National Centre for Disease Control ( NCDC), an expert body of Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to investigate the source of spreading the virus. After that, a three-member team led by Professor GK Medhi from North Eastern Indira Gandhi Regional Institute of Health & Medical Sciences ( NEIGRIHMS) reached the state on Thursday. “ Till now, steps taken by the state government are satisfactory,” Professor Medhi said.Tripura has got a total of 154 Covid-19 positive cases. Of them, 42 patients were recovered, as per latest Health Department’s report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-to-set-up-corona-jail-for-quarantine-violators/story-SRoLrI5AqhLYT9KlPLFjdO.html
15-05-2020||India||E-filing will bring court registry to lawyers’ chamber, make work simpler: CJI Bobde||E-filing of cases will effectively bring the court registry to the offices of lawyers and will make their work simpler and more efficient, Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde said on Friday.He was speaking at an online demonstration of the new e-filing module which will be rolled out by the Supreme Court in the near future. “E-filing has virtually brought the court registry into the chamber of advocates and nothing can be simpler once the steps are understood. E-filing will make the work simpler and more efficient,” Justice Bobde said.E-filing, he said, received an impetus due to the Covid-19 lockdown which necessitated social distancing and there would be no looking back now.“We will have to accept the present situation and change our mindset towards the way we look at court proceedings. Half the battle is won with the change of mindset. It is easy to learn but difficult to unlearn.”The event was also attended by the chairperson of the e-committee, Justice DY Chandrachud who said that e-filing will enhance the rights of citizens to efficient justice delivery. “We are conscious of the fact that not every lawyer has access to technology. As we age, so we become a little more diffident about the use of technology. So our solutions must factor this in order to ensure that we continue to be an inclusive institution and reach out to those who do not have access to technology,” he said.Towards this end, the court registry will do “handholding” by engaging data entry operators who will take up the work of data entry and filing so that lawyers do not feel handicapped by the e-filing process, he said.The new e-filing module which will be introduced for filing cases in the Supreme Court will provide personalized information to every advocate-on-record of cases which have been filed by them, their own list of cases, details of pleadings filed by them and pleadings filed by others in cases in which they appear.The service will be available round the clock which would mean that a lawyer can file a case anytime of the day and any day irrespective of whether the registry is working or not.“The mission is to provide facilities for inexpensive and effective access to justice. Rule of law must survive very strongly and operate at all times irrespective of coronavirus,” CJI Bobde said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/e-filing-will-bring-court-registry-to-lawyers-chamber-make-work-simpler-cji-bobde/story-93l6LEVUCjEQp4gnOL5RrK.html
15-05-2020||India||Covid lockdown: Stopping migrants’ foot march is states’ responsibility, centre reminds||The central government on Friday reminded states and union territories that it was their responsibility to ensure that migrant workers were not left to walk on highways or along the railway tracks or cycle their way home when permission has been given to organize transport for their commute.The union home secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote to the chief secretaries of states that they should follow up on Centre’s advise to counsel migrants and put them up in relief camps, if they are found walking on highways or along the railway tracks.“However, the movement of migrant workers, walking on roads, railway tracks and travelling in trucks, is still being noticed in different parts of the country,” the home secretary’s letter says.The letter says it is now up to the state governments to widely disseminate information about the travel arrangements being made to take migrant workers home and to persuade/counsel them not to walk home.“With the cooperation of States/UTs, Ministry of Railways is running more than 100 Shramik Special Trains per day and is ready to arrange additional trains as per their requirements,” the letter says.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19At least 16 migrant workers were crushed to death earlier this month while they were sleeping on the railway tracks near Aurangabad in Maharashtra while walking back to their village in Madhya Pradesh. In another incident, nine workers were killed and 50 others injured when their truck collided with a bus on a highway in Guna district on Thursday.Also Read: 56-year-old migrant dies on road to home, another dies after police lathichargeSix migrant workers were run over by a speeding bus on the Delhi-Saharanpur highway in Uttar Pradesh early on Thursday and another three migrant workers were crushed by a vehicle in Barabanki in the small hours of Friday.Several other tragic incidents involving migrant workers walking home have been reported in the past couple of weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-lockdown-stopping-migrants-foot-march-is-states-responsibility-centre-reminds/story-pH2PIgKO6l3WDZpADRwjoI.html
15-05-2020||India||India surpasses China tally with 85,000 confirmed coronavirus cases||The nationwide tally of confirmed Covid-19 cases crossed 85,000 on Friday with more people testing positive for the deadly virus infection from Kashmir to Kerala and from Karnataka to Bihar, even as indications emerged about greater relaxations in the fourth phase of the lockdown beginning Monday to contain economic costs of the pandemic.Going by the numbers declared by different states and union territories, India has now surpassed China’s official tally of 82,933 confirmed Covid-19 cases. Though some new cases have emerged in the Chinese city of Wuhan -- the epicentre of the deadly virus -- less than 100 people are now undergoing treatment across China, which recorded 4,633 deaths due to Covid-19 but more than 78,000 have been discharged after recovery, as per their official data. Globally, more than 3 lakh people have died and nearly 45 lakh have tested positive for the deadly virus since its emergence in Wuhan last December. While China and several other countries have begun reopening their economies, fresh concerns have begun mounting about a possible re-emergence of the virus. India is now the 11th most affected nation in the world, but each one of the top-ten have one lakh or more cases. The US tops the charts with more than 14 lakh cases, followed by Russia, UK, Spain, Italy and Brazil with over 2 lakh cases each; and France, Germany, Turkey and Iran having over 1 lakh cases each. In its morning 8 AM update, the Union Health Ministry said the death toll due to Covid-19 across India has risen to 2,649 and the number of cases has climbed to 81,970, registering an increase of 100 deaths and 3,967 cases in the last 24 hours since Thursday morning. There are more than 51,000 active cases, while nearly 28,000 have recovered, giving a recovery rate of over 34 per cent. However, a PTI tally of numbers reported by states and UTs, as of 9 PM, put the total number of confirmed cases across the country much higher at 85,538. This also showed at least 2,679 deaths and nearly 30,000 recoveries. Jammu & Kashmir, Bihar and Karnataka breached the 1,000-mark in terms of the number of people having tested positive, while testing and containment measures were ramped up in places like, Kerala, Goa and Manipur that were being seen as being mostly virus-free till a few days back. Even a quarantine centre had to be sealed in Manipur. On the other hand, large numbers of cases continued to get detected in big urban clusters. Maharashtra, the most-affected state, reported 1,576 new cases to take its tally to 29,100, while its death toll rose to 1,068. Tamil Nadu crossed the 10,000 mark with 434 new cases, while Gujarat saw 340 more people testing positive to push its tally to 9,932. According to the Union Health Ministry, 30 municipal areas account for 79 per cent of India’s coronavirus infection caseload. At a meeting of a group of ministers chaired by Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, it was stressed that the focus of Covid-19 management strategy needs to be on the states with the highest number of confirmed cases and fatalities. Also, focus is needed on treatment and case fatality management, for which timely detection and contact tracing were the best way forward. The Finance Ministry in the meantime unveiled the third booster dose, mainly consisting of measures aimed at helping farmers and for reforms in agriculture and allied sectors, of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Rs 20 lakh crore ‘special package’ for making India self-reliant in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. Modi said the third tranche will help the rural economy and boost farmers’ income. India has been under a lockdown since March 25, which was initially scheduled to end on April 14 but has got extended twice -- first till May 3 and then till May 17 with some relaxations. A final decision on the fourth phase is expected soon, but officials said there could be greater relaxations and more flexibility for states and union territories while measures being explored include gradual reopening of the railways and domestic airlines. Schools, colleges, malls and cinema halls may not be allowed to open anywhere in the country, but salons, barber shops and optical shops may be allowed everywhere barring Covid-19 containment areas. E-retailers may be allowed to deliver non-essential items too. Final guidelines will be issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs after going through the suggestions of various state governments. During his last interaction with chief ministers, Modi had asked them to submit their suggestions by May 15. According to officials, Punjab, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Assam and Telangana want the lockdown to continue, while some states have sought powers to decide the zoning of districts -- green, orange and red -- as per the COVID-19 situation. This request of the state governments may be accepted so that they can restrict or allow movement of people or economic activities in a particular place depending on the ground situation, an official told PTI. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his address to the nation on Tuesday, had said that the lockdown 4.0 will have a “completely different form”, with new rules. “No state wants complete withdrawal of lockdown but all want gradual resumption of economic activities,” the official said. Bihar, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka are among some states which are not in favour of complete resumption of train and air services, at least till May-end. The railways have already started special trains to 15 destinations from Delhi and have been running several hundred ‘Shramik Special’ trains from different parts of the country to various places for transportation of migrant workers stranded due to the lockdown. Air India is also engaged in evacuation of thousands of Indians stranded abroad during the lockdown under the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’. However, there have been cases of people testing positive after reaching their native places using these trains and flights. Officials said local trains, buses and metro services may start running with limited capacity in non-containment areas of red zones. Autos and taxis are also expected to be allowed in all zones with restrictions on the number of passengers, barring areas identified as ‘containment zones’. Maharashtra has favoured strict lockdown measures in Mumbai, its suburbs and Pune, and a complete ban on inter-state and inter-district transport. However, Gujarat wants resumption of economic activities in major urban centres. Delhi, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala have also favoured opening up of economic activities. Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha, which have seen a spike in the Covid-19 cases after arrival of migrant workers, want the lockdown to continue with strict curbs on movement of people. Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel has urged Modi not to open state boundaries for the next few months, except for migrants or essential services. Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal said the state has written to the Centre urging extension of the lockdown by two more weeks. Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said the Centre may announce many relaxations in the lockdown after May 17. The Arunachal Pradesh government has decided to resume state transport bus service to various destinations from May 18, while the Haryana Roadways has already resumed bus services on select routes within the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-surpasses-china-tally-with-85-000-confirmed-coronavirus-cases/story-F14JvH1oH9Ylr1X3gT6AXN.html
15-05-2020||India||Govt to amend decades-old EC law to deregulate food items, give farmer marketing choice||In a sweeping marketing reform in the agriculture sector, the Centre on Friday said it will amend the Essential Commodities Act to deregulate food items like cereals, pulses and onion besides bringing a new law to give marketing choice to farmers for enhancing their income. As a result of the amendment, the stock limit on food products like edible oils, oilseeds, potato and onion will not be imposed in normal cases but only in exceptional circumstances like natural calamities, famine with a surge in prices. “No such stock limit shall apply to processors or value chain participants, subject to their installed capacity or any exporter subject to the export demand,” the government said. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the government will amend the EC Act to make the agriculture sector more competitive and ensure better price realisation to farmers. This will also help in attracting investment in the farm sector. The government will also frame a new law to provide marketing choices to farmers. The central law will be formulated to provide adequate choices to farmers to sell their produce at an attractive price. It will enable interstate trade without restrictions and create a framework for electronic trading of farm products. “The aspect that we are talking about come under the Centre’s list because particularly when it refers to interstate related matter, it has to be governed by central legislation,” Sitharaman said. It is a concurrent subject and central law is overarching, Economic Affairs Secretary Tarun Bajaj said. “In this case major reform is being done where a farmer is allowed to sell his produce to whom over and wherever he wants to. Interstate is also allowed. This will help in reducing prices and also help in creating infrastructure,” he said. Interstate trade is a central subject, he added. At present, farmers are bound to sell agriculture produce only through APMC (Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee) mandies, which restrict the free flow of farm products. That apart, a legal framework will be created to enable farmers to engage with processors, aggregators, large retailers and exporters fairly and transparently. “Risk mitigation for farmers, assured returns and quality standardisation shall form an integral part of the framework,” the government said. At present, farmers lack an enforceable standard mechanism for predictable prices of crops at the time of sowing, it added. Earlier this year, the Economic Survey pitched for the scrapping of the Essential Commodities Act (ECA), saying the law is “anachronistic” that leads to harassment and is of no help in checking price volatility. The ECA, 1955, was enacted to control the production, supply and distribution of, and trade and commerce in, certain goods considered as essential commodities. The Act itself does not lay out rules and regulations but allows the states to issue control orders related to dealer licensing, regulate stock limits, restrict the movement of goods and requirements of compulsory purchases under a levy system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-amend-decades-old-ec-law-to-deregulate-food-items-give-farmer-marketing-choice/story-xjQ5aAEUAtvR0kLFDcbciK.html
15-05-2020||India||Defence minister Rajnath Singh commissions coast guard vessels via video conference||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday commissioned three coast guard vessels through video conferencing and said the locally-built ships symbolised the country’s self-reliance. The new vessels are Indian Coast Guard Ship (ICGS) Sachet and two interceptor boats (IBs) C-450 and C-451, the ministry said in a statement.“The commissioning of these ships is an important milestone in India’s coastal capability building process. Also, despite challenges like Covid-19, it is also a great example of our commitment and determination for the safety and security of the country,” Singh said.While Sachet is the first in a series of five offshore patrol vessels (OPVs) designed and being built by Goa Shipyard Limited (GSL), the IBs have been built by Larsen & Toubro’s Hazira shipyard.Singh praised GSL and L&T Shipyard for continuing to build and maintain ships under the present circumstances. “It also shows professionalism. It is noteworthy that Indian shipyards are making significant contribution to the vision of ‘Make in India’ and the ‘Self-reliant India campaign’,” Singh said.Coast Guard Director General Krishnaswamy Natarajan said the commissioning of the vessels proved that despite the hurdles posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, the maritime organisation was moving ahead.With the commissioning of the new ships, the coast guard now has a total of 150 vessels and 62 aircraft. Also, 40 ships are under various stages of construction at different yards and 16 advanced light helicopters are being built at Bengaluru-based Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-commissions-coast-guard-vessels-via-video-conference/story-72VCrsEK5WCySLEgNlw2EO.html
15-05-2020||India||Six people including five migrants test positive for coronavirus in Chhattisgarh||Six people including five migrant workers tested positive for coronavirus in Chhattisgarh on Friday, taking the number of cases in the state to 66.Total number of active cases in Chhattisgarh is 10 and 56 people have been discharged after recovery.“Five migrants who came from Gujarat to Janjgir Champa district and one another from Koriya district tested positive on Friday,” said health minister TS Singhdeo talking to Hindustan Times.All six were tested at Jawaharlal Nehru Memorial Medical College, Raipur,” the minister said.Notably, the count of Covid-19 cases in the state is now 66, though the number of active cases is 10 as 56 people have recovered so far.Four patients are undergoing treatment in AIIMS Raipur and they are in stable condition.Total 31,341 samples have been tested by the state government till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-people-including-five-migrants-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-chhattisgarh/story-3kXTBAq90D6cO6tgvBAaHI.html
15-05-2020||India||India faring better than other countries in combating Covid-19, no need to create panic: MoS for Health||Union Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare Ashwini Kumar Choubey on Friday said that India is doing better in comparison to other countries in the fight against COVID-19.Speaking to ANI, Choubey said that maximum people, who have tested positive for COVID-19, do not have any symptoms.“Today, around 10 per cent people among COVID-19 positive cases are those who are showing symptoms of cough, cold or fever, and less than five per cent people are those, who are needed to be on the ventilator or given oxygen or be in the ICU,” said Choubey.He went on to highlight that roughly 0.37 per cent are on a ventilator, 2.37 in ICU and 1.89 per cent on oxygen support. These figures are for the last 48 hours.“We can say that we are in better condition and there is no need to create any kind of panic,” Choubey said.With an increase of 3,967 COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, India’s count of coronavirus cases reached 81,970 cases, said the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Friday.According to the latest figures, 51,401 patients are active coronavirus cases while 27,919 patients have been cured/discharged and one patient has been migrated. With 100 deaths due to COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the number of deaths now stands at 2,649.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-faring-better-than-other-countries-in-combating-covid-19-no-need-to-create-panic-mos-for-health/story-53o9UwFMDq5mSP9j4UnCAL.html
15-05-2020||India||15 people who returned to Uttarakhand from other states test Covid-19 positive||Fifteen people who have returned to Uttarakhand from other states during the ongoing evacuation process have turned Covid-19 positive in the state.According to government officials, till Friday evening, over 2.12 lakh registrations had been made on the state website for return to Uttarakhand. Of these, the state government under its evacuation process has so far brought back 82, 834 people through trains and buses. Over 6000 people have returned to the state in their own vehicles. In case of people from other states stranded in Uttarakhand, 33,990 have registered with the government for return to their respective states. Of these, 16,229 have been sent to their respective states. On Friday two persons person tested positive for Covid-19, one in Dehradun and other in Pauri Garhwal, taking the tally of total cases to 80 in Uttarakhand. Of 80 cases, 50 people have recovered so far, leaving 29 active cases in the state.With the fresh case, Dehradun now has a total of 40 cases and 11 active cases. With the latest case, the doubling rate in the past seven days in Dehradun district has reduced to 29.86 from 167.38 days on Tuesday.JC Pandey, public relations officer (PRO) state health department said 29 year old man from Dehradun tested positive at the testing lab in All Indian Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Rishikesh. “This man had come with his mother from Delhi. His mother had tested COVID-19 positive on May 13”, he said.Pandey said another 25 year old man from Pauri Garhwal tested positive at AIIMS Rishikesh. He said the man had returned from Gurugram Haryana.Of 80 cases in the state so far, Dehradun has reported the maximum 40 Covid-19 positive cases followed by 16 in US Nagar, 12 in Nainital, 7 in Haridwar, 2 from Almora, 2 from Pauri Garhwal and one from Uttar KashiUttarakhand has nine containment zones including five in Dehradun followed by two in Haridwar and one each in Nainital and US Nagar.Authorities in Uttarakhand are worried over many people returning to the state testing positive for Covid-19. Last week, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat had even acknowledged that the state was faced up with a big challenge because many of those returning to the state are likely to be infected. “The state is expecting at least 2-2.25 lakh migrants to return of which about 25,000 are expected to be infected,” the chief minister had said during a Facebook live session.On May 13, even Uttarakhand high court, while expressing concern over many migrants returning to the state testing Covid-19 positive, had sought reply from the state and Central government on whether each person returning to the state was also being medically examined as ‘thermal screening is not enough’ and whether antigen tests, or any other rapid tests, could be performed on people returning to the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-people-who-returned-to-uttarakhand-from-other-states-test-covid-19-positive/story-nWO22d4ADmZwhwEMXMKKKP.html
15-05-2020||India||4-feet social distance, Aarogya Setu app must: AAI rules for air travel||Downloading the Aarogya Setu app on mobile phones will be mandatory for travelling by air, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said on Friday while issuing guidelines for resumption of flights in a “graded manner”. Passengers will have to wear a mask and other protective gear and maintain at least four-feet physical distance from co-passengers, the guidelines said. Passengers will also have to do a web check-in before the journey and carry a print-out of the boarding pass, AAI said.They will also be required to wash or sanitise their hands frequently, AAI said. On Thursday the bureau of civil aviation issued guidelines for enhancement of admissible limit of hand sanitisers to be carried in cabin baggage. ALSO READ | Air India staffer tests positive for Covid-19, office sealed for two days“Due to the spread of the coronavirus infection, passengers are being advised to use hand sanitisers frequently. Therefore it has been decided that the passengers boarding an aircraft will be allowed to carry in his/her hand baggage liquid hand sanitisers up to 350 ml,” the guidelines said. Restrictions on other liquid items will continue to be 100 ml. The stamping of boarding passes has also been suspended to reduce contact between passengers and security staff. India has suspended domestic passenger flights since the lockdown announced on March 25, while international flights were suspended before March 22. Civil Aviation minister Hardeep Puri has said domestic flights are expected to resume soon in a gradual manner. He said airports are likely to open in a graded manner with nearly 25-30% of its capacity initially. Once restrictions on passenger flights are lifted, airports will facilitate limited domestic and international scheduled flights in phases and may be at 30% capacity to facilitate social distancing, the Airport Authority of India had stated in a set of guidelines for resumption of service post-lockdown, Hindustan Times had reported on April 30. Flight operations to its original level are likely to be scaled up in a gradual manner, according to the government’s plan. Airline operations are likely to begin in tier-I cities first, it added.In a draft standard operating procedures (SOPs) proposed by the civil aviation ministry for passengers, airlines and airport operators it was suggested that cabin luggage will be barred and passengers aged above 80 years will not be allowed on flights when air travel services begin. The SOP had also suggested passenger ID checks will not be required so as to minimise the crowd at terminal gates.The Indian Railways has also made it mandatory for passengers to download the Aarogya Setu app on their mobile phones before commencing their train journey, the railway ministry said on Tuesday as services connecting 15 destinations with New Delhi resumed, reversing an earlier guideline.A similar instruction mandating the app may also be issued for passengers boarding flights when they resume, according to draft standard operating procedures sent by the civil aviation ministry to airlines and airport operators for feedback. The Centre has also mandated the app for Indians who are being evacuated from abroad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-feet-social-distance-aarogya-setu-app-must-aai-rules-for-air-travel/story-n0NcfScQPi0n9Is7kxJ5gN.html
15-05-2020||India||Covid lockdown impact: Andhra RTC dumps 7,600 outsourced workers||The continued nationwide lockdown to contain Covid-19 pandemic has now cast its shadow on the outsourced employees of Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC).On Friday, the corporation put a question mark on 7,600 outsourced workers of the APSRTC with an instruction to all bus depot managers not to take them into work, employees’ union leaders said.“We may use permanent employees for all duties due to Covid situation and related financial crisis. Only after the full utilisation of permanent employees, we may call any outsourcing/contract personnel for duties,” a WhatsApp message from APSRTC managing director Madireddy Pratap to the depot managers on Friday said.According to transport corporation employees’ union general secretary P Damodar Rao, the outsourced employees mostly work as mechanics in garages, cleaners, sweepers, typists, data entry operators, peons and helpers in RTC hospitals. “Their salary bill is around Rs 9 crore a month. The management is sacking them to save this money,” Rao told Hindustan Times.While Pratap could not be reached for a comment, an internal office memo issued by him to vigilance and security officers of the RTC regional depots on May 13 revealed that since the corporation was planning to operate all buses without conductors hereafter, it would result in surplus conductors and they could be redeployed in place of outsourced employees whose services would be withdrawn.Similarly, there are outsourced drivers in the RTC, who were running some buses and light vehicles, apart from doing parking duties. These outsourced drivers would also be withdrawn and in their places, surplus regular drivers could be deployed, the office memo said.“This is ridiculous. Regular employees cannot replace these outsourced or contracted employees. How can a conductor or a driver do the job of a sweeper or a peon?” the union general secretary asked.According to Rao, APSRTC has close to 52,000 regular employees and 7,800 regular vacancies. “If the RTC management thinks there are excess conductors and drivers, they could be utilised in the existing vacancies,” he said.The sacked outsourced employees have not got their salaries for the month of April since the busses didn’t operate in April, the union leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-lockdown-impact-andhra-rtc-dumps-7-600-outsourced-workers/story-PgdFmcdWkcTwrhe24UBdpJ.html
15-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: Supreme Court stays Madras HC order, paves way for opening liquor shops in TN and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Supreme Court stays Madras HC order, paves way for opening liquor shops in TNThe Supreme Court on Friday paved the way for reopening of state-owned liquor vends in Tamil Nadu by staying a Madras High Court order which had ordered their closure on the grounds that there was violation of guidelines, such as social distancing, meant to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. Read moreDelhi’s Covid-19 death toll rises to123, city reports 425 fresh cases taking tally to 8,895Delhi reported 425 new Covid-19 positive cases in the last 24 hours taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the national capital to 8,895 including 5,254 active cases and 3,518 patients who have recovered, according to data from the Delhi health department. Read more‘Ensure migrants don’t travel on foot’: CM Yogi Adityanath to officialsChief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday asked state officials to set up teams in every police station area to ensure that no migrant worker travels on foot or bike or in any unsafe mode in Uttar Pradesh. Read moreElephant uses a stick to scare away angry rhino. Watch incredible videoThey’re two huge animals and it would be hard to pick which would win in a battle between them. This video shows just that - an interesting fight between an elephant and a rhinoceros. It’s not just the fight that makes the clip interesting. Read moreThis is Diljit Dosanjh’s yummy and easy cheat day pancake recipeWith government mandated lockdowns in place on account of the coronavirus pandemic, we are seeing the domestic side of our beloved Bollywood celebrities. Read moreMigrants’ walk of despair continues despite Shramik trains: Who’s to blame?Migrant labourers in the country continue to walk back to their native villages. This despite the government arranging special Shramik trains for transporting stranded migrant labourers. So are why migrant labourers still on the road desperately trying to reach their native villages? Who is to blame for the plight of the migrant labourers? Watch Congress’ Gourav Vallabh & BJP’s Charu Pragya discuss the issue with Hindustan Times’ Chetan Chauhan & Aditi Prasad. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-supreme-court-stays-madras-hc-order-paves-way-for-opening-liquor-shops-in-tn-and-all-the-latest-news/story-dztZS2abJvr51AP0YWB4sL.html
15-05-2020||India||56-year-old migrant dies on road to home, another dies after police lathi charge||The nationwide lockdown continued to take its toll on migrant workers with a 56-year-old dying on the road to Puri after travelling around 200 km from Kolkata and a 28-year-old worker injured in police lathi charge dying in a Surat hospital.In another incident, a 38-year-old migrant worker staying in a quarantine centre in Mayurbhanj hanged himself from a tree following a minor tiff with his wife, who also stayed in the same centre.On Friday morning, Dhubei Charan Mohanty, a 56-year-old man from Puri district slumped to death at Laxmannath tollgate on Odisha-Bengal border after travelling about 200 km from Kolkata. Mohanty, who worked in a private company in Kolkata for a salary of Rs 13,000 a month, was stranded there after the nationwide lockdown was clamped. He had also run out of money as his company was shut.On Friday morning, he had hopped onto a bus from Kolkata to travel to his home in Tikarpada village under Kakatpur police station area of Puri district, around 500 km away. He got down from the bus at Laxmannath toll gate at 11.30 am and had started walking across the border when he fell down. He was taken to the GK Bhattar Hospital where doctor Dilip Patra declared him dead. “Though we are yet to conduct a post-mortem, he might have suffered acute dehydration due to high temperature leading to cardiac arrest. Today it was a little hot during daytime,” said Patra.Meanwhile, Odisha police today announced that no migrant from other states passing by Odisha will have to walk. Following reports of migrants walking under hot Sun, Odisha DGP Abhay said they can walk into the nearest police station and police will make their travel arrangements. The cost of travel would be reimbursed from chief minister’s relief fund. So far, 1,349 buses and 4,372 four-wheelers have passed through 12 border check points in Odisha.In Surat town of Gujarat, Satyaban Swain, a 28-year-old migrant worker from Ganjam, working in a private factory there died late Thursday night soon after he was allegedly beaten up by the police.On Thursday evening, several migrant workers had gone to local Amroli police seeking registration of their names for booking of train tickets to Odisha.“Seeing so many migrant workers, the cops chased them away to their factory at Anjani Industries area. Swain, who was sitting inside the factory premises, was rounded up by police along with others and thrashed badly. An injured Swain was put up in an autorickshaw along with others and taken to Amroli police station. Fearful of more police torture at the police station, Swain jumped off the auto-rickshaw and suffered critical injuries.He was rushed to a hospital where doctors declared him dead,” said Raghunath Panda, a leading member of Odia community in Surat.The migrant worker is survived by his wife and a five-year-old mentally-challenged son.In another incident, a 38-year-old migrant working in a marble factory of Vijaywada, who was admitted to a quarantine centre in Mayurbhanj district, hanged himself from a Mahul tree following a tiff with his wife. His wife, too, was quarantined there. Police said Surendra Nayak of Raikama village under Baisinga block was quarantined 6 days ago after returning from Vijaywada. His wife, who had travelled to Prashanti Nilayam in Andhra Pradesh with a group of Sai devotees, too, was quarantined there.His younger brother said late last evening the couple had a tiff over Surendra’s suspicion that his wife had an affair with one of the Sai devotees with whom she had travelled. This morning, Surendra’s body was found hanging from a Mahul tree. He was wearing just underwear when the body was recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/56-year-old-migrant-worker-on-his-way-to-home-dies-on-road-28-year-old-migrant-dies-in-police-lathicharge-in-surat/story-O1NI1kDAWYRAAQOg4dkT6M.html
15-05-2020||India||Karnataka sees another record rise of Covid-19 cases as tally crosses 1000-mark||With 69 new Covid-19 positive cases reported in Karnataka, the southern state saw the single biggest day rise in cases, even as the cumulative number of those who have tested positive for the virus crossed the 1000-mark. The state till now has recorded 1,056 total Covid-19 positive cases which include 35 deaths and 480 discharges. The total number of active cases in Karnataka stands at 539.State health department officials said that they were concerned over the fact that nearly a third of the new cases have come from those who have returned from the Gulf region after they were evacuated and brought to Dakshin Kannada and Udupi districts. On Thursday, Karnataka had sent back about 19 people from Delhi who had refused to quarantine themselves mandatorily for the two-week period as prescribed. The 19 were a part of 1000 passengers who came in the first train from Delhi to Bangalore in nearly two months.Meanwhile, the state administration received criticism from several quarters after belated visuals appeared on social media of an annual temple fair to Goddess Maramma at Kollagondahalli village in Ramnagar district in which hundreds of devotees participated without any social distancing or masks being worn. Apparently, villagers prayed to the goddess for elimination of coronavirus but the assembly of several hundred devotees congregating without any precautions being taken has attracted flak.While the panchayat development officer has been suspended for allowing the temple fair to happen, priest Bore Gowda was arrested on Friday and charged under various sections of the IPC, including disobeying orders of public servant and acts leading to spread of an infectious disease.Deputy CM C N Ashwath Narayan who is also the district-in-charge minister, however, claimed that the administration was not aware of the festival being held and that strict action would be taken against anybody who had been negligent in their duties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-sees-another-record-rise-of-covid-19-cases-as-tally-crosses-1000-mark/story-TizBXIdQE8eS3USoAY3m4J.html
15-05-2020||India||22 insurgents brought from Myanmar will be held in strict quarantine: Assam cop||The Myanmar government on Friday handed over 22 rebels belonging to six different outfits in Manipur and Assam to the Indian authorities, in a first move of its kind.This is the first time that the Myanmar government has acted on the Indian government’s request and handed over Indian rebels who were based in their country.The rebels, who were apprehended by the Myanmar Army in the Sagaing region of the neighbouring country in separate operations during the past months, are being brought back to India by a special plane.“The information about the handing over of rebels is true. But I can’t give details of who these insurgents are and other descriptions of the operation,” a senior Assam Police official said.“As per the standing orders of the government and the current Covid-19 pandemic, they will be kept under strict quarantine. I won’t be able to disclose where they are being kept,” he added.According to reports, those deported include 12 rebels from four insurgent groups in Manipur—United National Liberation Front (UNLF), Kanglei Yawol Kunna Lup (KYKL), Peoples’ Revolutionary Party of Kangleipak-Progressive (PREPAK-PRO) and Peoples’ Liberation Army (PLA-Manipur).The 10 other rebels are from Assam’s National Democratic Front of Bodoland-Saoraigwra (NDFB-S) and Kamtapur Liberation Organisation (KLO).The special plane is expected to first land in Manipur’s capital Imphal where the rebels from that state will de-board before it flies to Guwahati.The rebels include self-styled home secretary of NDFB-S Rajen Daimary, Sanatouba Ningthoujam of UNLF and Pashuram Laishram of PREPAK-PRO.Most of the active insurgent outfits in the Northeast including the United Liberation Front of Assam-Independent (ULFA-I) have their bases in Myanmar where they conduct training of their cadres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/22-insurgents-brought-from-myanmar-will-be-held-in-strict-quarantine-assam-cop/story-T46FItQttwqyEdgTKcQbtN.html
15-05-2020||India||Supreme Court stays Madras HC order, paves way for opening liquor shops in TN||The Supreme Court on Friday paved the way for reopening of state-owned liquor vends in Tamil Nadu by staying a Madras High Court order which had ordered their closure on the grounds that there was violation of guidelines, such as social distancing, meant to contain the Covid-19 pandemic.A bench headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao orally observed that the ultimate decision on whether liquor should be sold and how the sale should be made rests with the government.“Issue notice. In the meanwhile there shall be ad interim stay of orders dated May 6 and May 8, passed by the High Court of Madras,” the bench which also comprised justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and BR Gavai said. The court also stayed the May 11 order passed by the Madurai bench of the Madras high court. The high court had directed on May 8 that Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (TASMAC) can sell liquor only through online mode after the re-opening of liquor outlets on May 7 had led to overcrowding and long queues outside its outlets.The central government had, on May 1, allowed states to sell liquor subject to certain conditions which were issued to ensure social distancing in the shops.In line with the Centre’s directions, the Tamil Nadu government had issued a public notice on May 4 announcing that TASMAC outlets which were shut since lockdown would reopen on May 7 for sale of liquor.However, on a PIL by one B Ramkumar Adityan, the high court on May 6 passed an order regulating the sale of liquor. It mandated adherence to certain conditions subject to which the sales could be carried out.It was ordered that “not more than two bottles of 750 ml each (including wine, beer etc.) of any one type will be sold to one customer at a time.”Further, it directed that customers cannot purchase liquor more than twice a week and with a minimum gap of three days. Directions were also issued to encourage online payment instead of cash payment.The state of Tamil Nadu and TASMAC, which approached the Supreme Court challenging the high court order, pointed out that when the outlets opened on May 7 after a 44-day shutdown, the high court directions, in fact, led to overcrowding and worsened the queues.This caused the High Court to serve up a double whammy by passing another order on May 8 directing complete closure of TASMAC outlets leaving it with the option of online delivery alone.This direction was reiterated by the Madurai Bench of the High Court on May 11 in another case.The orders passed by the high court are “counter-productive” and are “an overreach of its powers”, TASMAC had submitted before the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decision-rests-with-state-govt-sc-on-opening-liquor-shops-in-tamil-nadu/story-jKHWEQOpJ9Rs8JNjGUERwM.html
15-05-2020||India||Odisha bracing for possible cyclone, 12 districts on alert||Odisha government on Friday asked collectors of four coastal districts, which are likely to be affected by a looming cyclonic storm, to arrange more number of alternative shelter homes for a possible evacuation of residents, as the state stares at another natural disaster amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.India Meteorological Department (IMD) director-general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said the well-marked low pressure would likely to concentrate into depression over central parts of south Bay of Bengal on Friday and further intensify into a cyclonic storm by the evening and likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm over south & adjoining central parts of the Bay of Bengal by Saturday evening. Initially, it is likely to move northwestwards and then re-curve north-northeastwards towards the north of Bay of Bengal on Monday and Tuesday.Odisha government took note of IMD’s forecast and alerted 12 districts, including in southern and northern regions, for the imminent cyclonic storm. “We’ve discussed with the collectors of Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Bhadrak and Balasore districts to closely monitor the situation. District collectors in north coastal Odisha have been asked to look for alternative cyclone shelters as existing ones have been turned into Covid-19 quarantine centres,” said Pradeep Jena, special relief commissioner, Odisha.The cyclonic storm is likely to lash Odisha at a time when 21 of the state’s 30 districts are grappling with the pandemic, as 672 people have tested Covid-19 positive to date.Another disaster in the form of a looming cyclonic storm is likely to pose a massive challenge for the state administration, which is on the precipice due to the viral outbreak.State chief secretary Asit Tripathy said the leaves of all government employees in four districts, which are staring at the cyclonic fury, have been cancelled. “The cyclonic storms in previous years such as Titli and Fani had caused massive devastation in Odisha. However, the state government has been lauded for its disaster management strategy,” Tripathy said.IMD has predicted that the southern districts, including Ganjam, Gajapati, and the coastal districts of Puri and Kendrapara are likely to experience heavy rainfall with 40-45 kilometres per hour (kmph) wind speed gusting up to 60-65 kmph on Monday because of the cyclonic storm. On Tuesday, rainfall is likely to occur in northern districts with 60-65 kmph wind speed gusting up to 85-90 kmph.The fishermen have been asked not to venture into the deep sea from Friday because of the possible cyclonic storm. Those, who have already sailed into the sea, have been asked to return to the shores by Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-bracing-for-possible-cyclone-12-districts-on-alert/story-BLW4ir3Gc38e8k1QhrO1WK.html
15-05-2020||India||‘Ensure migrants don’t travel on foot’: CM Yogi Adityanath to officials||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday asked state officials to set up teams in every police station area to ensure that no migrant worker travels on foot or bike or in any unsafe mode in Uttar Pradesh.The directive came amid rising cases of migrants losing their lives in road accidents while marching back home.The CM said food and water should be provided to the migrants as soon as they enter the state and added that they should be medically screened. Arrangements for a vehicle to send them to their respective destinations should be made if they are found fit, the CM told officials.Reviewing the lockdown situation, the CM said the state government was sensitive towards the problems of migrant labourers and all efforts must be made to ensure that workers reach their destination. He said no laxity in this regard would be tolerated.He said DGPs of all states should be contacted and a request made to them to ensure that no migrant labourer travels by trucks or any other unsafe vehicle, failing which strict action would be taken against those ferrying them in unsafe vehicles.CM Yogi said buses should be arranged to carry those reaching the state by train from different states to carry them home. In case the state buses are not available, private buses should be deployed, said the CM. He further directed that the drivers of the buses should also be given protective equipment.The quarantine centres, the CM added, should be kept clean and use of liquor should not be allowed there. He added that lockdown rules should be strictly enforced and police patrolling should be intensified in the state.The chief minister urged the hospitals to carry out emergency services and other medical operations, both in government and private hospitals, except the OPD services.Masks, gloves, sanitisers and PPE kits should be made available to drivers, assistants in ambulances and those transporting Covid-19 positive patients, underlined the CM.On restarting industries, Yogi said availability of labourers should be assessed for the same.Loan melas should be organised to provide loan to the street vendors on the pattern of loan mela organized for MSMEs in accordance with the economic package announced by the Centre, said the CM.The women self-help groups (SHGs) manufacturing masks were encouraged to sell masks. He said arrangements should be made to sell masks through street vendors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-migrants-don-t-travel-on-foot-cm-yogi-adityanath-to-officials/story-FFg2Ta5KO3pMj1boF0qjIJ.html
15-05-2020||India||Rajnath Singh approves setting up of testing facilities for domestic defence industry||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday approved a scheme under which infrastructure would be developed at a cost of Rs 400 crore to help domestic military firms carry out testing of indigenously developed military hardware.The Defence Testing Infrastructure Scheme (DTIS) is aimed at boosting domestic defence and aerospace manufacturing, officials said.“The defence minister approved the launch of DTIS with an outlay of Rs 400 crore for creating state-of-the-art testing infrastructure for defence sector,” the defence ministry said in a statement.It said the scheme would run for a duration of five years and envisages to set up six to eight new testing facilities in partnership with private industry.It said projects under the scheme will be provided up to 75 per cent government funding in the form of ‘grant-in-aid’. The remaining 25 per cent of the project cost will have to be borne by private entities and state governments. The special purpose vehicles to be set up to implement the scheme will have to be registered under the Companies Act, 2013, and shall also operate and maintain all assets under the scheme in a self-sustainable manner by collecting user charges. The equipment/systems tested will be certified as per appropriate accreditation, officials said.At present, India is one of the top importers of military hardware globally. The government has been focusing on making India a hub of defence production.According to the latest report by Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI), a leading think-tank on military spending, India’s defence expenditure stood at USD 71.1 billion in 2019, which is third highest after the US and China.In 2017, the government came up with an ambitious policy under which select private firms were to be roped in to build key military platforms like submarines and fighter jets in India in partnership with global defence majors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-approves-setting-up-of-testing-facilities-for-domestic-defence-industry/story-7IYTvx6jGJ0NWumqhMVNJN.html
15-05-2020||India||‘Allow us to board empty planes’: Stranded NRIs in India urge Centre||The stranded non-resident Indians (NRIs) in the country have urged the Centre to help them get back to countries of their residency citing the threat of losing their jobs and livelihoods due to the delay among other reasons. They say they could be put on empty Air India flights engaged in the world’s biggest evacuation named ‘Operation Vande Bharat’.Some of them say they are separated from their minor children, who are now in dire straits as more than two months have passed. Some others stuck in India are facing innumerable problems and have no idea when they can join their ailing kin.The NRIs HT spoke to said they are more than 4,000 in numbers and have approached many without results. Around 2000 of these are from the middle-eastern countries, around 1000 from Europe and approximately 800 from the US. They have created WhatsApp and Telegram groups to stay in touch with each other and air their grievances.“I came to my daughter in Bengaluru in March and was planning to leave after two weeks, but by that time the lockdown was announced. My husband, mother and other family members are in Dubai. Dubai has opened up and all offices have started working there,” said Kamini Kannan who is settled in Dubai for more than two and a half decades. “What really worries me is that my mother and husband both have health problems. I am totally in the dark,” she said. “I came here for my mother’s cancer operation. I have a one- and- a-half-year breastfeeding child left with my husband in Qatar. I knocked on many doors to help me get back. My husband’s job is also in danger now,” said another woman from Kochi who did not wish to be named.Habeeba Mohammad (31) had left her five children with her husband in Abu Dhabi to attend to her mother’s medical emergency in Hyderabad on March 18. What was supposed to be a five-day trip, has stretched to two months.At least 50 per cent of the stranded NRIs had come to see their ailing relatives like Habeeba. They want the government to hear their woes before it’s too late.Meenakshi Chakraborty flew down to Kolkotta for some urgent family work with her 10th grader daughter and got stuck. “I am really worried, as my husband, who has underlying medical condition, is staying alone in Dubai. My daughter who has her 10th exams has no books or study material,” she said.Another woman came to Kolkotta to attend her father’s funeral service after leaving her two minor kids with her husband. “Initially I thought it will be there for a few weeks. But there is no sign of any resumption of flights. I am really worried,” she said.Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan said the government was aware of their plight. “Many such cases came to our attention. We don’t have any problem in sending them back but the host country will have to allow flight services. Most of these countries have suspended international flights and are allowing only special ones. Once they begin service, they can go on the first flight. If their visas expire, we will help them in getting extension,” he said adding they will have to wait for some more time.The government specified rules allow Indian nationals with at least a one-year-long visa to book flights for foreign destinations being serviced by Operation Vande Bharat Mission. It also allows Green Card and OCI (Overseas Citizen of India) cardholders to travel. In case of deaths and medical emergencies, Indian nationals holding six months visa can also be allowed to travel provided the conditions imposed for entry of people by the destination countries are met.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allow-us-to-board-empty-planes-stranded-nris-in-india-urge-centre-citing-threat-to-jobs-families/story-SNYE1j2BWYll5teeaIu6YO.html
15-05-2020||India||Suspense over resumption of Delhi Metro remains, will inform after decision, says DMRC||As the country gets ready for lockdown 4.0 which is likely to see a further easing of restrictions including interstate public transport in some cases, residents in Delhi are awaiting news on the resumption of Delhi Metro that connects around 400 km network and has fast developed as the backbone of the capital’s public transport infrastructure.While the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation, responsible for running and management of the metro rail network in the capital, has begun the preparation for an eventual reopening with maintenance work, there is no telling if it will come after May 17, when the third phase of lockdown ends. The DMRC on Friday said that a decision in this matter will be taken by the government.“The decision to resume Metro rail services in Delhi NCR will be taken by the Government after which the detailed protocol to be followed by passengers for travelling in the Metro will be shared with the media and public,” news agency ANI quoted Anuj Dayal, executive director, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation as saying. Two days ago, DMRC had said it will start undertaking cleaning and maintenance work to get ready for the resumption of services in the near future.The Delhi Metro services were suspended on March 22, before the first phase of the nationwide lockdown was implemented from March 25 to contain the spread of coronavirus infection.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19“The date for the resumption of services has still not been finalized and will be notified to the public in due course. All systems of the metro including the signalling, electrical, rolling stock, tracks etc will have to be tested in detail before services are ultimately started,” a tweet from DMRC had said.The total length of the metro network in Delhi is close to 400 kilometres and it caters to several lakh commuters daily.The DMRC is expected to resume social distancing measures on the network which were initiated before it suspended its services.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has submitted his government’s suggestions on the fourth phase of lockdown to be implemented in Delhi to the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suspense-over-resumption-of-delhi-metro-remains-will-inform-after-decision-says-dmrc/story-CVuHVgIjJVagwx0aEmcXJJ.html
15-05-2020||India||Delhi’s Covid-19 death toll rises to123, city reports 425 fresh cases taking tally to 8,895||Delhi reported 425 new Covid-19 positive cases in the last 24 hours taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the national capital to 8,895 including 5,254 active cases and 3,518 patients who have recovered, according to data from the Delhi health department. On Thursday, the city had recorded 472 fresh cases, the highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases in Delhi so far.In a health bulletin issued on Friday, the Delhi health department said, the death toll from the coronavirus infection in the national capital has risen to 123. The national capital, however, did not report any deaths due to coronavirus in the last twenty-four hours, the data revealed.ALSO READ | Biggest single-day spike as Delhi Covid-19 cases cross 8,000It said cumulative death figures refer to fatalities where the primary cause of death was found to be Covid-19, as per the report of the Death Audit Committee on the basis of case sheets received from various hospitals.On Thursday, the total number of coronavirus cases stood at 8,470, including 115 deaths. India’s Covid-19 tally has climbed to 81,970, with an increase of 3,967 coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said on Friday.According to the Health Ministry, Maharashtra is the worst-hit state with the maximum number of Covid-19 cases with 27,524 patients of whom, 6,059 patients have been cured and discharged and 1,019 have died of the disease.Tamil Nadu has a tally of 9,674 Covid-19 cases inclusive of 2,240 patients cured and discharged and 66 fatalities.Gujarat has a total of 9,591 cases which include 3,753 patients cured and discharged while 586 have lost their lives due to coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-covid-19-death-toll-rises-to123-city-reports-425-fresh-cases-taking-tally-to-8-895/story-7KhV4ewplevU1Tp0n92ZaM.html
15-05-2020||India||UK repatriates over 16,500 citizens from India||The UK has repatriated more than 16,500 citizens from India on 64 special charter flights since last month, the British high commission said on Friday.The flights were operated from 32 locations across India in the past 38 days, and almost half of the Britons repatriated globally so far on UK charter flights have been from India.This was done through a large and complex operation that involved more than 500 members of staff in India, working around the clock to ensure flights operated smoothly and passengers could reach airports.The nationwide lockdown required close coordination between British authorities and the Indian government and local authorities to transport passengers over large distances.One British national stranded in a remote village in Manipur had to travel more than 2,700 km for the flight home from New Delhi, the high commission said.Jan Thompson, the acting high commissioner to India, said:“The last currently scheduled charter flight left for London Heathrow from Amritsar today [Friday] with over 300 passengers on board.“This unprecedented repatriation effort would not have been possible without the excellent support of the Indian government. Continued cooperation between our nations will be essential in the fight against this pandemic.”Since the coronavirus outbreak, the UK government has helped 1.3 million Britons around the world to return on commercial flights and organised special charter flights from 27 countries and territories.The UK government currently has no plans for further charter flights but the situation will be kept under review, the high commission said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-repatriates-over-16-500-citizens-from-india/story-VRUGBRaqVVrCUuGRF7BCVO.html
15-05-2020||India||In Nirmala Sitharaman’s Covid-19 package, 10 interventions for farm sector||The third tranche of Rs 20 lakh crore economic relief package announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman was concentrated on funding big-ticket reforms in the agricultural sector to not just revive the economic growth but unleash its latent potential through opening up of production and marketing avenues. The move is likely to result in long-term gains for farmers, marketers and consumers. Here is the list of all key measures announced by the finance ministry as part of Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Special Package:1. Government to amend Essential Commodities Act to enable better price realisation for farmers which will result in the deregulation of prices for foodstuffs including cereals, edible oils, oilseeds, pulses, onions and potato. The minister said the amendment would help in attracting investments and making agriculture sector competitive. Stock limits- a feature of the old act-- to be imposed under very exceptional circumstances like during national calamities like famine that see a surge in prices.Also Read: Nirmala Sitharaman special Covid-19 package: Prices of essential commodities to be deregulated2. A Central law will be formulated to provide adequate choices to farmer to sell produce at an attractive price and for barrier-free interstate trade. It will also set up the framework for e-trading of agriculture produce. The move is aim to end fragmentation of markets available to farmers who are currently forced to sell only to licensed APMC marketers.3. Rs 1 lakh crore Agri Infrastructure Fund for farm-gate infrastructure for farmers for projects at farm-gate & aggregation points-- primary agricultural cooperative societies, farmers producer organisations, agriculture entrepreneurs, startups, etc.4. Rs 10,000 crore scheme for the formalisation of Micro Food Enterprises (MFE) under ‘Vocal for Local with Global outreach’ vision shown by the prime minister. This will help 2 lakh MFEs attain technical up-gradation, FSSAI food standards, build brands and marketing5. Rs 20,000 crore for fishermen through Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY) for integrated, sustainable, inclusive development of marine and inland fisheries and to fill critical gaps in the fisheries value chain. Out of this, Rs 11,000 crore will be allocated for activities in marine, inland fisheries and aquaculture and Rs. 9000 Cr for infrastructure including fishing harbours, cold chain, markets etc. It is expected to lead to additional fish production of 70 lakh tonnes over 5 years and employment to over 55 lakh persons apart from double exports to Rs 1,00,000 crore. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-196. Rs. 13,343 crore for National Animal Disease Control Programme for foot and mouth disease (FMD) and brucellosis launched. It will help in 100% vaccination of cattle, buffalo, sheep, goat and pig population (total 53 crore animals)7. Animal Husbandry Infrastructure Development Fund worth Rs 15,000 crore will be set up with the aim to support private investment in dairy processing, value addition and cattle feed infrastructure. Incentives to be given for establishing plants for export of niche dairy products.8. Promotion of herbal cultivation with a fund of Rs 4,000 crore to cover 10,00,000 hectare land under herbal cultivation in the next two years. It is expected to lead to Rs. 5,000 crore income generation for farmers. The programme hopes to create a network of regional market places for medicinal plants. National Medicinal Plants Board (NMPB) will bring 800-hectare area by developing a corridor of medicinal plants along the banks of Ganga.9. Rs 500 crore for beekeeping initiatives –- Infrastructure development related to integrated beekeeping development centres, collection, marketing and storage centres, post harvest & value addition facilities etc. This will lead to a likely increase in income for 2 lakh beekeepers and quality honey to consumers.10. Rs 500 crore for Operation Green to prevent distress sale leading to a reduction in the price of perishable fruits and vegetables at the farm level. All fruits and vegetables will be covered under this initiative for the next 6 months. It includes 50 % subsidy on transportation from surplus to deficient markets and 50 % subsidy on storage, including cold storages. This is likely to result in better price realisation to farmers, reduced wastages and affordability of products for consumers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirmala-sitharaman-s-3rd-installment-of-special-covid-economic-pkg-has-10-interventions-for-the-farm-sector/story-Ike4F5zEetdEyS8M4kbmmN.html
15-05-2020||India||Covid-19 update: UK repatriates over 16,500 citizens from India||The UK has repatriated more than 16,500 citizens from India on 64 special charter flights since last month, the British high commission said on Friday.The flights were operated from 32 locations across India in the past 38 days, and almost half of the Britons repatriated globally so far on UK charter flights have been from India.This was done through a large and complex operation that involved more than 500 members of staff in India, working around the clock to ensure flights operated smoothly and passengers could reach airports.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThe nationwide lockdown required close coordination between British authorities and the Indian government and local authorities to transport passengers over large distances.One British national stranded in a remote village in Manipur had to travel more than 2,700 km for the flight home from New Delhi, the high commission said.Jan Thompson, the acting high commissioner to India, said:“The last currently scheduled charter flight left for London Heathrow from Amritsar today [Friday] with over 300 passengers on board.“This unprecedented repatriation effort would not have been possible without the excellent support of the Indian government. Continued cooperation between our nations will be essential in the fight against this pandemic.”Since the Coronavirus outbreak, the UK government has helped 1.3 million Britons around the world to return on commercial flights and organised special charter flights from 27 countries and territories.The UK government currently has no plans for further charter flights but the situation will be kept under review, the high commission said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-uk-repatriates-over-16-500-citizens-from-india/story-5NrIdnuCzrX5qGpOxG3mXI.html
15-05-2020||India||Mumbai man paid naval sailors honey trapped by Pak spies on Facebook, arrested||A 49-year-old Mumbai man, suspected to be key conduit in touch with Pakistan spies in the Visakhapatnam espionage case, has been arrested for paying off navy personnel, the National Investigation Agency said on Friday.Mohammed Haroon Lakdawala used to travel to Karachi in Pakistan for cross-border trade. During one of these visits, he came in contact with two spies Akbar and Rizwan who arranged with him to make deposits into the bank account of navy personnel at regular intervals, an NIA statement said.The NIA had taken over the probe in late December.The spy ring was busted much earlier by the Andhra Pradesh police that had been working along with central intelligence agencies. The security agencies dubbed it “Operation Dolphin Nose”, a reference to the hill next to the Eastern Naval Command in Visakhapatnam where naval offices and a residential complex are located.In all, 14 people including 11 navy personnel and a Pakistani-born Indian national Shaista Qaiser have been arrested in this case.According to the NIA, Pakistan-based spies recruited agents in India to collect sensitive and classified information regarding movements of naval ships, submarines and location of other defence establishments.The navy personnel had mostly come in contact with Pakistani nationals through various social media platforms such as Facebook and WhatsApp etc. The payments were made via Lakdawala.Investigators had earlier told Hindustan Times that the navy personnel, mostly sailors, had not revealed any significant information and were paid between Rs 5,000 and Rs 10,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-man-paid-naval-sailors-honey-trapped-by-pak-spies-on-facebook-arrested/story-WlJbzNKkLSL5aoXMODB08O.html
15-05-2020||India||NIA arrests key conspirator in Visakhapatnam espionage case||In a major success, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday arrested the key conspirator in the Visakhapatnam espionage case related to alleged leaking of sensitive information to Pakistani intelligence agency ISI. Mohammed Haroon Haji Abdul Rehman Lakdawala (49), a resident of Mumbai, is one of the key conspirators in the case which was taken over by the NIA in December last year, an official of the agency said. On December 20, Indian intelligence agencies busted the espionage racket linked to Pakistan with the arrest of seven Indian Navy personnel and a hawala operator. With the arrest of Lakdawala, a total of 14 accused have so far been arrested, including 11 Navy personnel and one Pakistani-born Indian national Shaista Qaiser. “Investigation revealed that Lakdawala had visited Karachi (Pakistan) on many occasions to meet his handlers under the guise of conducting cross-border trade. During these visits, he came in contact with two Pakistani spies namely Akbar alias Ali and Rizwan, who directed him to deposit money into the bank accounts of Navy personnel at regular intervals. The same was done through different means,” the official said. During searches at the house of Lakdawala, a number of digital devices and incriminating documents were seized by NIA, he said, adding further investigation in the case was underway. “The NIA has arrested the key conspirator in the Visakhapatnam espionage case related to an international espionage racket involving individuals based in Pakistan and at different locations in India,” the official said. Pakistan-based spies recruited agents in India for collecting sensitive and classified information regarding locations and movements of Indian naval ships and submarines, and other defence establishments. “Investigation revealed that a few Navy personnel came in contact with Pakistani nationals through various social media platforms such as Facebook and WhatsApp and were involved in sharing classified information in lieu of monetary gains. The money was deposited into the bank accounts of the Navy personnel through Indian associates having business interests in Pakistan,” he said. PTI SKL AAR||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-arrests-key-conspirator-in-visakhapatnam-espionage-case/story-lbDoCzyLgV0I9IHDTs7Q4J.html
15-05-2020||India||Leh-Manali highway set to open next week as BRO clears winter snow||The strategic 490-kilometre-long Leh-Manali highway, which connects Ladakh with Himachal Pradesh, is expected to be open for traffic from the next week, as Border Roads Organisation (BRO) personnel have cleared the winter snow off the highway, a month earlier than the last year, amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak in the country.Senior BRO officials said that the road, connecting Leh with the rest of the country, is likely to be opened on Monday.Projects Himank and Deepak cleared the snow from the challenging and treacherous 16,050-feet high Baralacha pass and 17,480-feet high Tanglangla Pass, they added.“The snow accumulation in these sectors recorded over 35 feet at places and has an average height of 15 feet,” a senior BRO official said. Ladakh, which remains cut off from the mainland for over five months during winter, has two primary access roads — the national highway from Srinagar over the 11,570-feet high Zojila pass between Sonmarg and Kargil and the Manali-Leh road.Gurez passengers:Passengers, who were stranded in Bandipora due to the Covid-19 pandemic, were allowed to return to the picturesque Gurez Valley.“The passengers were screened by a team of doctors at Lal Quila Morh at Pethkoot village. The vehicles were thoroughly fumigated before allowing them to proceed towards their destination,” said Reyaz Ahmad Beigh, assistant commissioner, (revenue), Bandipora.“The civil administration and doctors will decide whether to keep these passengers under institutional or home quarantine,” he added.Though Gurez-Bandipora road was opened for traffic in early May, there was a ban on the entry into the valley as a precautionary measure because of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leh-manali-highway-set-to-open-next-week-as-bro-clears-winter-snow/story-z0UzIMxusekqv1J47BhpeL.html
15-05-2020||India||Trade unions to go on strike on May 22 to protest against labour laws suspension||Ten central trade unions on Friday gave a call for a nationwide strike on May 22 to protest against the suspension of labour laws by some states during the lockdown period, and also decided to take the matter to International Labour Organization (ILO). “The joint platform of Central Trade Unions (CTUs) in their meeting held on May 14 , 2020 took note of the critical situation for the working people in the country during the lockdown period and decided to enhance united actions to meet the challenge,” a joint statement by 10 CTUs said. “The joint platform...has decided to observe nationwide protest day against the anti-worker and anti-people onslaughts of the government on May 22, 2020,” it added. While Uttar Pradesh has suspended major labour laws, Madhya Pradesh has tweaked some rules amid the lockdown to spur economic activities. As per media reports, Gujarat, Tripura and many other states are following suit. The CTUs have also decided to send joint representation to ILO in this regard. They said that suspension of labour laws violates international commitments on labour standards and human rights. “Uttar Pradesh government has brought a draconian ordinance titled “Uttar Pradesh Temporary Exemption for certain labour laws ordinance 2020” under the guise of facilitating economic activities,” it said. With one stroke, 38 laws were made defunct in UP for 1,000 days, and only section 5 of Payment of Wages Act 1934, Construction Workers Act 1996, Compensation Act 1993 and Bonded Labour Act 1976 remain functional, it added. The laws that have been suspended include Trade Union Act, Industrial Disputes Act, Act on Occupational Safety and Health, Contract Labour Act, Interstate Migrant Labour Act, Equal Remuneration Act, Maternity Benefit Act etc, it said. According to the statement, Madhya Pradesh government has tweaked labour laws while Gujarat government has decided to increase working hours to 12 from 8 hours. Assam, Tripura and several other states have been actively preparing to take the same route, they added. The move came after 8 states-- Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Odisha, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Bihar and Punjab -- increased the daily working hours to 12 from 8 earlier through executive order in violation of the Factories Act, taking advantage of the lockdown situation, they said. These draconian measures have thrown vulnerable sections into conditions of slavery, the statement said. The national-level leaders of the ten trade unions would organize a day-long hunger strike on May 22 at Gandhi Samadhi, Rajghat, New Delhi. Simultaneous protests would be jointly organized in all states. Their demands include, immediate relief to stranded workers for safe reaching to their homes, food to be made available to all, universal coverage of ration distribution, cash transfer to all unorganized labour force (registered or unregistered or self employed), among others. The ten central trade unions that issued the joint statement are INTUC, AITUC, HMS, CITU, AIUTUC, TUCC, SEWA, AICCTU, LPF and UTUC. There are 12 CTUs in the country. RSS-backed Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh has also given a call for nationwide protest against labour laws suspension on May 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trade-unions-to-go-on-strike-on-may-22-to-protest-against-labour-laws-suspension/story-nwTLgMYycBlBBUSZYJ1vKP.html
15-05-2020||India||Andhra Pradesh, Telangana Covid-19 positive cases rise as migrants return||The return of migrant Telugu-speaking labourers from other states, particularly Maharashtra, has led to in a rise of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases in both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh (AP) over the last 10 days, officials said.Out of 440 Covid-19 positive cases registered in AP since May 5, 150 were that of Telugu-speaking migrants from various states such as Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Odisha, West Bengal and Karnataka, said an official bulletin released by the state nodal officer for Covid-19, Arja Sreekanth, on Friday.In the last 24 hours alone, 45 out of 102 Covid-19 positive cases reported in AP were that of migrant Telugu-speaking labourers, including 34 and 11 from Maharashtra and Rajasthan, respectively.Official figures showed that over 8,000 migrant Telugu-speaking labourers returned to their native places. Most of them belong to Anantapur, Chittoor, Nellore, Kurnool and Kadapa districts in AP and they came from different states by special Shramik Express trains arranged by the Centre.Andhra Pradesh special chief secretary K S Jawahar Reddy told media persons that all those who had tested Covid-19 positive have been referred to dedicated Covid-19 hospitals and others sent to a mandatory 14-day quarantine.The AP government has been putting out a separate tally for Covid-19 positive migrant labourers for the last two days to make a distinction that these fresh infections are not homegrown.“The segregation exercise will help us determine that these migrant labourers contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease, in those states from where they’ve come back home,” said an official in the Covid-19 control room said.Several vegetable vendors from AP, who visited Koyambedu vegetable market in Chennai -- a Covid-19 superspreader – have tested positive, raising a cause for concern for the AP authorities.“So far, 84 Covid-19 positive cases, including 28 in the last 24 hours, have been reported. All of them are related to those people, who had visited Chennai’s Koyambedu vegetable market. All the patients belong to Chittoor, Kurnool, Kadapa, Anantapur and Nellore,” said the state nodal officer.In neighbouring Telangana, migrant workers, who started returning to their native places from other states, particularly from Maharashtra, have been found infected.According to the health bulletin released by the state director of public health and family welfare, G Srinivasa Rao, on Thursday night, 42 Covid-19 positive cases were that of migrant labourers. A majority of the cases were identified among those coming from Mumbai.State health minister Eatala Rajender said migrant workers from Telangana, who had been stuck in various states, have started returning to their native places.“Some of them have tested Covid-19 positive. The authorities concerned should ensure that all the migrant returnees are tested and those who test positive are referred to dedicated Covid-19 hospitals without any delay,” he said.The minister urged that accredited social health (ASHA) workers should be entrusted with the responsibility to conduct door-to-door surveys.“All symptomatic patients should be immediately referred to a dedicated Covid-19 hospital,” he added.Many of these migrant workers are returning to their villages on their own. “Most of these returnees are from north Telangana districts, who had gone to neighbouring Maharashtra in search of work. They may pose risk to others,” said a health department official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ap-telangana-covid-19-positive-cases-rise-as-migrants-return/story-bWHLvjsginLvFW5dfYXv6I.html
15-05-2020||India||My struggle has been a prep phase for me||‘Mukkabaaz’ actor Viineet Kumar chose to stay back in Mumbai and not to rush to his hometown Varanasi. “Before the lockdown was announced I was in Mumbai and had to attend several events and functions here. At such events, we get to meet a large number of people and you never know who is infected or has a travel history. So, I thought to stay back as I didn’t wanted to put my parents and family at risk, ” he said while talking over phone.Viineet regrets missing the opportunity to go Tribeca Festival where his film ‘Tryst with Destiny’ was nominated. “Legendary Robert De Niro is the founder of the fest and I missed the chance to meet the actor in person who happens to be my most favourite actor. ‘TwD ‘is based on Pt Nehru’s Independence Day speech. It has three stories beautifully woven together. Eventually, the event was held on a digital platform.”He has five releases ahead out of which four projects are ready for release. “Films ‘Aadhaar’, ‘Tryst with Destiny’ and ‘Gunjan Saxena’ biopic, shot in Lucknow, are all complete. Tamil film ‘Thiruttu Payale 2’ a remake that was shot in Varanasi and Lucknow has two days of shoot left. But, first to come will be his digital horror-thriller ‘Betaal’ (with Aahana Kumra),” he shares. This is his second OTT series after ‘Bard of Blood’ which is also expected to have a second season.Vineet calls his 16 years of struggle as a learning experience all through, “I never call it a period of struggle in fact it was a preparation phase for me. Once ‘Mukkabaaz’ happened then things were on a roll for me. Films like ‘Gold’, ‘Saand Ki Aankh’, OTT release ‘Bard of Blood’ gave me a foothold. Now all my focus is on my upcoming projects. Slowly and steadily I’m moving in a right direction and wish to work on good projects. Hope the ongoing crisis gets over and shoot resume. Till then it’s OTT that will be in forefront,” says the ‘Gangs of Wasseypur’ actor.The versatile actor is writing a new script with his sister Mukti Singh Srinetra. “She also co-wrote ‘Mukkabaaz’. Together we are creating a fresh content hopefully it will be completed soon. Besides, I am doing all household tasks and taking out time o workout at least 1.5-2 hours every day,” he says.Talking about his days in lockdown, he said, “Jab struggle chalta hai to aap saalo-saal quarantine main hote ho (the days of struggle are similar to lockdown days). You get to introspect and heal yourself and it’s not that disturbing. I am used to be alone. But, this phase has troubled us all. Plight of migrants and poor is very distressing and sad. In my capacity, whatever is possible I am trying to do for them. I advise all to take precautions and follow norms then only we will be able to overcome this situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/my-struggle-has-been-a-prep-phase-for-me/story-7EEiPBJtgLu7nw0H9QjfoK.html
15-05-2020||India||Nirmala Sitharaman Live: 8 point agricultural reform announced in 3rd tranche of Aatma Nirbhar Bharat pkg||The finance ministry on Friday announced several reforms in the agriculture sector in keeping with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision to transform the farm sector. Nirmala Sitharaman announced that government was looking to amend the Essential Commodities Act to deregulate prices of food items including cereals, edible oils, oilseeds, pulses, onions, and potatoes among others. In addition, the minister also unveiled an eight-point-reform programme aligned with the self-sufficient India vision.“Our focus is that India stands up on its own, so there is a lot in terms of empowering people and sectors. Entitlement will be given where it is required but it is about making India self-reliant,” Sitharaman said while announcing the package for the agricultural sector.Also Read: Nirmala Sitharaman special Covid-19 package: Prices of essential commodities to be deregulatedHere are the details of the eight-point farm reforms announced in the third tranche of the Rs 20,000 crore Atma Nirbhar Bharat special economic package to combat the crisis triggered by cronavirus epidemic.1. One lakh crore Agri Infrastructure Fund for creating farm-gate infrastructure for farmers including cold chain and post harvest management structure in the vicinity of farm gate. Financing facility of Rs 1,00,000 core will be provided for funding agriculture infrastructure projects and aggregation points. This fund is to be created immediately.2. Rs 10,000 crore scheme for formalization of Micro Food Enterprises. This scheme promotes ‘Vocal for Local with Global Outreach’ vision outlined by PM Narendra Modi in his last address to the nation, where he stressed on self-reliance as the mantra for India’s economic growth in the post coronavirus world. The scheme, government said, will help 2 lakh MFEs, farmer producer organization, self help groups and cooperatives in technical upgradation, improved incomes, better health and safety standards and integration with retail markets.3. Rs 20,000 crore for fisherman through Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY) to fulfill critical gaps in fisheries value chain and for integrated sustainable inclusive development of marine and inland fisheries. Out of this, Rs 11,000 crore is meant for marine, inland fisheries and acquaculture and Rs 9,000 crore is meant for infrastructure like fishing harbours, cold chain, markets etc. This fund infusion is likely to help in additional fish production of 70 lakh tones over 5 years and gain in employment to over 55 lakh persons.4. A total outlay of Rs 13,343 crores for Naitonal Animal Disease Control programme was announced.5. Animal Husbandry Infrastructure Development Fund of Rs 15,000 crore was being created for supporting private investments in Dairy processing and value addition and cattle feed infrastructure.6. Rs 4,000 crore was earmarked for the promotion of herbal cultivation which will bring in an additional 10,00,000 hectare of land under cultivation in the next two years. Such a corridor could be developed on both sides of river Ganga, said Sitharaman.7. Rs 500 crore for beekeeping initiatives in the rural areas.8. Rs 500 crore for Operation Green to prevent the wastage of agricultural produce due to disruption of supply chains during the lockdown. This will be extended for the next six months from crops like tomatoes, potatoes and onions to all fruits and vegetables. This involves subsidy for transportation and storage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirmala-sitharaman-live-8-point-agricultural-reform-announced-in-3rd-tranche-of-aatma-nirbhar-bharat-pkg/story-cOEHn5XEy4aIkL4kmyJGzH.html
15-05-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi jabs NITI Aayog over Covid-19 ‘prediction’; gets a prompt rebuttal||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Friday took a swipe at Niti Aayog, a government think tank for predicting that there would be no Covid-19 cases after May 16. According to the think tank, government’s lockdown strategy to control the virus will enable that. “The geniuses at Niti Aayog have done it again. I’d like to remind you of their graph predicting the Govt’s national lockdown strategy would ensure no fresh Covid cases from tomorrow, May the 16th,” tweeted the Congress leader. The geniuses at Niti Aayog have done it again. I’d like to remind you of their graph predicting the Govt's national lockdown strategy would ensure no fresh Covid cases from tomorrow, May the 16th. pic.twitter.com/zFDJtI9IXPThe graph, as seen in Gandhi’s tweet, shows the curve predicting new cases peaking around last week of April and then sloping downwards to zero on May 16.NITI Aayog chief executive officer Amitabh Kant later tweeted his rebuttal to Rahul Gandhi. Blatant falsehood & lie. I have never tweeted this nor is this my slide. Please don’t attribute it to me & kindly withdraw your tweet. https://t.co/oqkUklgZGwIn a statement to HT later, the government think-tank said: “NITI Aayog examines & analysis various epidemiological models. In a presentation Member (Health) has presented various models presented by outside experts. It is a theoretical model like several made by epidemiologists around the world at such a time. It should be read in that context and not literally. The said graph presents factual cases till date along with a trend line. No claim was made as to zero case by 16th May, as is being incorrectly inferred.”However, there has been no let up in the cases even as the third phase of nationwide lockdown ends this Sunday.Earlier today, the death toll due to Covid-19 rose to 2,649 in the country while cases touched 81,970, said the health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-shreds-niti-aayog-over-no-covid-19-cases-after-may-16-prediction/story-nIznL58C2I4kaSoVqqIuYI.html
15-05-2020||India||Migrant couple loses 10-month-old child in bike accident while returning home||A 10-month-old girl was killed and her parents, both migrant labourers from Andhra Pradesh, were injured when the motorbike on which they were travelling met with an accident in Telangana’s Yadadri Bhongir district late on Thursday night, the police said.The incident happened at Borrollagudem village of Choutuppal block on Hyderabad-Vijayawada national highway (NH-65).According to Chouttuppal inspector of police P Venkateshwarlu, Kadali Peddi Raju and his wife Lakshmi, from Metlavarithota village of Ramavaram block in Andhra Pradesh’s West Godavari district, had migrated to Hyderabad a few months ago to work as daily wage labourers.Because of the nationwide lockdown on account of Covid-19 pandemic, the couple had not been getting any work in Hyderabad. On Thursday night, Raju left for his native village with his wife and infant daughter on a bike.“As they reached Borrollagudem near Choutuppal, about 45 km from Hyderabad at around midnight, Raju lost control over the bike and collided with a road divider. While the girl child died on the spot, Raju and Lakshmi were seriously injured,” the inspector said.The locals who noticed the accident immediately shifted the couple and the child to the government hospital at Choutuppal. “We have registered a case and are investigating,” Venkateshwarlu said.Meanwhile, migrant labourers travelling from Telangana leaving for other states continue to face troubles at the inter-state borders.On Friday morning, more than 60 vehicles carrying over 2,000 migrant labourers were stopped at the inter-state check post near Ashwaraopet of Telangana’s Bhadradri Kothagudem district on the borders of Andhra Pradesh, as the police authorities from the neighbouring state did not allow them to enter their state.These migrant labourers from West Bengal left Hyderabad on Thursday evening after taking travel permission from the Telangana government authorities. As they reached the Andhra borders at Ashwaraopet at around 3 am, they were stopped by the AP police.However, after prolonged discussions with the Telangana authorities, the AP police allowed them to travel, only after they underwent medical tests at the check post.The police also imposed a condition that the migrant labourers from West Bengal should continue their travel till they crossed the Andhra borders without stopping anywhere in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-couple-s-10-month-old-child-killed-as-they-travel-back-home-on-bike/story-byvNNf9d5zVc0M31XglvpI.html
15-05-2020||India||Recovery rate 34.06%, doubling rate improved: Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday said that the total recovery rate of COVID-19 patients in the country has been recorded at 34.06% and the Doubling Rate improved from 3.4 days in the pre-lockdown week to 12.9 days in the last week.During the 15th meeting of high-level Group of Ministers (GoM) on COVID-19 held here, the Minister said that 1,685 corona patients were cured in the last 24 hours, which denoted the recovery rate of 34.06%. Reading the COVID-19 situation globally and in the country, the Minister said: “The total coronavirus positive cases worldwide stand at 42,48,389 with 2,94,046 deaths and the fatality rate is pegged at 6.92%. In India, the total positive cases are 81,970, with 2,649 deaths and a fatality rate of 3.23%. So far, a total of 27,920 people have been cured.”The GoM held in-depth deliberations on containment strategy and management aspects of COVID-19, as well as measures taken by the Centre and various states. The GoM was informed by the officials that there are 30 municipal areas that account for 79% of India’s COVID-19 case load. The GoM also discussed that the focus of COVID-19 management strategy needs to be on the states with the highest numbers of confirmed cases and the fatalities, and on treatment and case fatality management, for which timely detection of infection and contact tracing were the best way forward. The GOM also discussed the challenges before various states/UTs arising due to migrant labourers returning home and the returnees from abroad.The Minister told the GoM that a total of 8,694 facilities comprising 919 dedicated COVID hospitals, 2,036 COVID Health Centres and 5,739 COVID Care Centres with a total of 2,77,429 beds for severe and critical cases, 29,701 ICU beds and 5,15,250 isolation beds in care centres are available. Also, as on date, 18,855 ventilators are now available to combat COVID-19 in the country. The Centre has also provided 84.22 lakh N95 masks and 47.98 lakh Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) to the states, UTs and central institutions. He said that the domestic manufacturers have the capacity to produce nearly 3 lakh PPE and N-95 masks each per day.Dr Balram Bhargava, Director General of ICMR, said about COBAS 6800, a fully automated, high-end machine has been installed at the NCDC for performing real-time PCR testing for COVID-19 to test 1,200 samples in 24 hours. He also said that the corona testing capacity has increased in the country to 1,00,000 tests per day through 509 government and private laboratories.Nearly 20 lakh cumulative tests have been conducted in the country. The GoM attendees included Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep S. Puri, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, and MoS Home Nityananda Rai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/recovery-rate-34-06-doubling-rate-improved-harsh-vardhan/story-p5DjJ4Lih5UPizSuBpiXZP.html
15-05-2020||India||Rs 500 cr for beekeeping initiatives, will help 2 lakh beekeepers: FM Nirmala Sitharaman||The government will implement a Rs 500 crore scheme of infrastructure development for the country’s beekeepers, with special thrust on capacity building of women, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharamam said on Wednesday.The government will implement the scheme for infrastructure development related to integrated beekeeping development centres, collection marketing and storage centres, post-harvest and value addition facilities among other things,It will also include implementation of standards, developing a traceability system, development of quality nucleus stock and bee breeders.“This will lead to an increase in income of 2 lakh bee-keepers,” Nirmala Sitharaman said in her press conference.Nirmala Sitharaman was announcing the details of the Rs 20 lakh crore package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, vowing to make the country ‘atmanirbhar’ or self-reliant. She said that agriculture and allied activities will be the focus of the third tranche of the economic package to combat the damage caused by the coronavirus pandemic in the country.Sitharaman will be holding daily press conferences till Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-500-cr-for-beekeeping-initiatives-will-help-2-lakh-beekeepers-fm-nirmala-sitharaman/story-4wazwe81ubFNu7mRbhCWMI.html
15-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi doctor wins global funding to deal with Covid-19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi doctor wins global funding to deal with Covid-19Radhika Batra, a Delhi-based doctor engaged in manufacturing personal protection equipment to deal with coronavirus in India, Kenya and Nigeria, is one of five recipients of funding by a global forum of young leaders called One Young World. Read moreGovt to create Rs 1 lakh crore Agri-Infrastructure Fund for marginalized farmers: FMFinance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday announced the third tranche of the Rs 20 lakh crore economic stimulus package focussing on agriculture, dairy, animal husbandry and allied activities. The Centre will immediately create a Rs 1 lakh crore Agri-Infrastructure Fund for farm- gate infrastructure for small and medium farmers, most of whom are marginalized. Read moreHT Exclusive: Nudged by Ajit Doval, Myanmar army hands over 22 northeast insurgentsThe Myanmar military handed over a group of 22 northeast insurgents to the Indian government on Friday afternoon. The insurgents, wanted in Manipur and Assam, are being brought back by a special plane, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times. Read more‘No loudspeakers for azaan, only human voice allowed’: UP top court ordersThe Allahabad High Court has held that azaan, or the Islamic call to ritual prayer, can be recited by a muezzin from minarets of the mosques by human voice only without using any amplifying device or loudspeakers. It also said that one can’t use a loudspeaker for azaan without prior permission of district administration in accordance with the law. Read moreWorld Bank to fund $1bn for mobile safety nets for Covid-19 hit migrants in IndiaThe World Bank on Friday announced a $1-billion programme aiming to integrate India’s 400-plus fragmented social-security programmes for migrant workers hit by the coronavirus pandemic, part of an initiative that seeks to rebalance access to safety nets between rural and urban India. Read moreCoronavirus will put 4 million girls at risk of child marriage in next 2 yrs: Global CharityFour million girls are at risk of child marriage in the next two years because of the new coronavirus pandemic, a global charity said on Friday, as campaigners warned that the crisis could undo decades of work to end the practice. Deepening poverty caused by the loss of livelihoods is likely to drive many families to marry off their daughters early, World Vision said. Read moreBangladesh opener reveals why Virat Kohli doesn’t sledge him anymoreBangladesh opening batsman Imrul Kayes has revealed why Indian captain Virat Kohli stopped sledging him on the cricket field. Kayes, who spent some time with Kohli in an Australian cricket academy in 2007 when the two were budding cricketers, said that he was taken aback when Kohli sledged him when the two met on a cricket field in 2011. Read moreUP Board answersheet evaluation in red zone districts from next weekAfter resuming evaluation of high school and intermediate answer-sheets in 56 districts in the green and orange zones, the UP Board has announced to extend the exercise in 19 red zone districts from next week. The evaluation in these districts, however, will be held only at centres which are present in localities outside the Covid-19 hotspots earmarked by the district administration, said officials. Read moreDid this cat just say ‘I love you’? Watch the video to find outIt’s no lie that the Internet is crazy about cats. But honestly, why wouldn’t netizens be? The furry little creatures are mischievous, independent, and usually as cute as a button. Well, this pet parent who is losing all his cool over his cat potentially saying ‘I love you’ illustrates just how truly admired these four-legged beasts are. Read moreHappy Birthday Madhuri Dixit: From girl-next-door to Bollywood fashionista in the 90s, Madhuri Dixit stunned in allMadhuri Dixit’s body of work in the Hindi film industry is known by her exceptional dancing prowess through her collaborations with ace choreographer Saroj Khan in the 90s or Shiamak Davar in a film dedicated to the performing arts, Dil Toh Pagal Hai, her emotive face, million dollar smile and the fashion she made a home affair for most women in that period. Read more‘My child has been crying, please let me go home’: Migrant worker breaks downMigrant workers continue to face a tough time as they try to return to their native villages amid lockdown. A group of migrant labourers were stopped by policemen while they were trying to enter UP and head to their native villages. A woman broke down while narrating her ordeal. She said she has been away from her child for around 2 month and he has been crying and asking her to return home. Watch the full video for all the details. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-sitharaman-unveils-third-tranche-of-economic-package-all-the-latest-news/story-bIAtCOp9PQbwPDsR2n2MmM.html
15-05-2020||India||Allahabad HC nod to ‘azaan’ sans loudspeakers||The Allahabad high court on Friday allowed ‘azaan’ (call to prayer) from mosques but didn’t permit the use of loudspeakers without permission from the district administration. The court said ‘azaan’ is an integral part of Islam but loudspeakers weren’t part of the religion. With this observation, the bench of justices Shashi Kant Gupta and Ajit Kumar disposed of a public interest litigation filed by the BSP MP from Ghazipur, Afzal Ansari, seeking the lifting of a ban on ‘azaan’ at mosques in Ghazipur. “We are of the considered opinion that azaan may be an essential and integral part of Islam but recitation of azaan through loud­speakers or other sound amplifying devices cannot be said to be an integral part of the religion warranting protection of the fundamental rights enshrined under Article 25 of the Constitution of India, which is even otherwise subject to public order, morality or health and to other provisions of part III of the Constitution of India,” the bench said.“It cannot be said that a citizen should be coerced to hear anything which he does not like or which he does not require since it amounts to taking away the fundamental right of other persons,” the bench observed.Ansari had said in his petition there was no specific order in the Central or state government’s guidelines to prohibit ‘azaan’ from mosques, and the arbitrary decision by Ghazipur’s district administration to ban the call to prayer was illegal. The state government contended that religious activity by any group using loudspeakers had been restricted across Uttar Pradesh in view of the guidelines for the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown.The government also said that since Ghazipur district has been declared a0 Coronavirus hot spot, restrictions were imposed in the area in line with guidelines issued by Union home ministry on March 24. The state government, in its affidavit, submitted a list of instances of people assembling at mosques in Ghazipur following ‘azaan’, and how the administration faced difficulties in controlling the situation.In the petition filed on April 28, Ansari had alleged that ‘azaan’ was suddenly prohibited at mosques by the administration of Ghazipur and police. He further said that if anyone recited the ‘azaan’, the person would be booked under the National Security Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allahabad-hc-nod-to-azaan-sans-loudspeakers/story-p76n8PXMofvjBnU3WvegoN.html
15-05-2020||India||Govt supported farmers, fishery owners during Covid-19 lockdown: Nirmala Sitharaman||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday said a number of steps were taken during the lockdown period to help farmers and fishery owners among others as she announced the third tranche of the Rs 20 lakh crore economic package.She said during the lockdown period the minimum support price (MSP) purchases of amount more than Rs 74,300 crore were made as part of additional steps for agriculture during the period.Funds transfer worth Rs 18,700 crore has been done under PM KISAN and PM Fasal Bima Yojana claims worth Rs 6,400 crore released in the past two months, she said.A new scheme has been launched for interest subvention at the rate of 2% per annum to dairy cooperatives for 2020-21 aimed at unlocking Rs 5,000 crore additional liquidity, benefitting two crore farmers, she said.To help the fisheries sector, operations of marine capture fisheries and aquaculture has been relaxed to cover inland fisheries.She said that agriculture and allied activities will be the focus of the third tranche of the economic package to combat the damage caused by the coronavirus pandemic in the country.“I will announce 11 measures and eight of them relate to strengthening infrastructure, strengthening capacity, building better logistics…. The rest three of the 11 will pertain to governance and administrative reforms,” she said in her third press briefing in as many days.Sitharaman has been announcing the details of the Rs 20 lakh crore package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, vowing to make the country ‘atmanirbhar’ or self-reliant. Sitharaman will be holding daily press conferences till Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-supported-farmers-fishery-owners-during-covid-19-lockdown-nirmala-sitharaman/story-30jGXnW6kWsWSr9BImsknK.html
15-05-2020||India||3rd tranche of economic package to focus on agriculture, allied activities: FM Sitharaman||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday announced that agriculture and allied activities will be the focus of the third tranche of the economic package to combat the damage caused by the coronavirus pandemic in the country.“I will announce 11 measures and eight of them relate to strengthening infrastructure, strengthening capacity, building better logistics…. The rest three of the 11 will pertain to governance and administrative reforms,” she said in her third press briefing in as many days.Sitharaman has been announcing the details of the Rs 20 lakh crore package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, vowing to make the country ‘atmanirbhar’ or self-reliant. In the first tranche, totalling about Rs 5.9 lakh crore, announced by Sitharaman on Wednesday, loan guarantees for small businesses, shadow banks and power companies.She had also said the government will set up two debt and equity funds amounting to Rs 700 billion to support stressed businesses, and will contribute to the social security funds of workers for three months.Sitharaman announced the second tranche of the package on Thursday, which focussed on free food for migrants, more jobs for tribals and those in rural areas, and credit to small enterprises, street vendors and small farmers.Sitharaman will be holding daily press conferences till Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-tranche-of-economic-package-to-focus-on-agriculture-allied-activities-nirmala-sitharaman/story-hP0Ft0UVRjV09upZj3DHUK.html
15-05-2020||India||Highlights: FM Nirmala Sitharaman announces 3rd tranche of Rs 20 lakh crore economic package||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman held a press conference in New Delhi today on Rs 20 lakh crore economic package. This is her third press briefing in as many days.Sitharaman has been announcing the tranches of the Rs 20 lakh crore package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. PM Modi had announced the package during his address to the nation on Tuesday, vowing to make the country ‘atmanirbhar’ or self-reliant. He said that this will be 10 per cent of the country’s Gross Domestic Product or GDP.Sitharaman will be holding daily press conferences till Sunday.Follow the highlights below:- A facilitative legal framework will be created to enable farmers for engaging with processors, aggregators, large retailers,exporters in a fair and transparent manner: FM Nirmala Sitharaman- A central law will be formulated to provide adequate choices to the farmers to sell produce at an attractive price, barrier-free interstate trade and framework for e-trading of agricultural produce: FM Sitharaman- Govt to implement a Rs 500 crore scheme of infrastructure development related to integrated beekeeping development centres, collection,marketing & storage centres, post-harvest and value addition facilities; this will lead to an increase in income of 2 lakh bee-keepers: FM Sitharaman- National Medicinal Plants Board will bring 800-hectare area by developing a corridor of medicinal plants along the banks of river Ganga: FM Nirmala Sitharaman- Rs 4000 crore allocated for promotion of herbal cultivation; 10,00,000 hectare will be covered in the next 2 years: FM Sitharaman- Government to amend Essential Commodities Act to enable better price realisation for farmers and by attracting investments this will lead to deregulation of prices for cereals, edible oils, oilseeds, pulses, onions, and potatoes. This will now be regulated by market forces and government intervention will only apply in emergency situation like dramatic price hike or any crisis, FM Sitharaman said.- FM announces Animal Husbandry Infrastructure Development Fund of Rs 15,000 crore to support investment in dairy processing.- FM Nirmala Sitharaman announces Rs 4,000 crore for promotion of herbal cultivation to bring 10 lakh hectares of land under herbal growing in next 2 years.- National Animal Disease Control Programme for Foot and Mouth Disease and Brucellosis launched with a total outlay of Rs 13,343 crore: FM Nirmala Sitharaman- Govt to launch the Rs 20,000 crore Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana for development of marine and inland fisheries. 55 lakh people expected to get employment from this program: FM Sitharaman- All Covid-19 related deadline extensions relating to fisheries activities, many of them involving overseas contracts, have been honoured. Very many measures which will help marine and coastal farmers have been undertaken as promised. - FM Nirmala Sitharaman- Government introduces a Rs 10,000 crores scheme for the formalisation of Micro Food Enterprises (MFE); the scheme promotes PM’s vision of ‘Vocal for Local with global outreach’: FM Nirmala Sitharaman- Government to immediately create a Rs 1 lakh crore Agri-Infrastructure Fund for farm gate infrastructure for farmers: FM Nirmala Sitharaman- During Covid lockdown period, the demand for milk reduced by 20-25%. A new scheme to provide interest subvention at 2% per annum to dairy cooperatives for 2020-21. The scheme will unlock Rs 5,000 crore additional liquidity, benefit to 2 crore farmers: FM Sitharaman- During lockdown period Minimum Support Price purchases of amount more than Rs 74,300 crores; PM Kisan fund transfer of Rs 18700 cr: FM Nirmala Sitharaman on additional steps for agriculture during Covid-19- I will be announcing 11 measures today, of which 8 of them relate to strengthening infrastructure, capacities and building better logistics, while the rest 3 will pertain to governance and administrative reforms: Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman - Today’s announcements will focus on agriculture and allied activities: Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-updates-fm-nirmala-sitharaman-announces-3rd-tranche-of-rs-20-lakh-crore-economic-relief-package-for-covid-19-india-crisis/story-bSr7zKcAphdoRZ4ObJ6upO.html
15-05-2020||India||Arunachal Pradesh to resume state transport bus service from May 18||The Arunachal Pradesh government has decided to resume state transport bus service to various destinations from May 18 next, an official said here on Friday.The decision was taken in view of the huge demand for public transport to ferry stranded people and other passengers from one district to another, State Transport Services general manager Abu Tayeng informed.Tayeng in an official order on Thursday said that daily bus service would be available from Itanagar to Bomdila, Seppa, Ziro, Daporijo, Aalo, Pasighat and Roing, while service between Itanagar and Tawang would be available only on Monday and Thursday.The general manager further informed that bus services from Itanagar to Tezu, Namsai, Miao, Changlang, Khonsa, Longding, Likabali, Kamle, Tirbin, Basar, Pake-Kessang, Kaying and Liromoba would be on alternate days.Moreover, Tayeng in the order said that bus service to Koloriang from Itanagar would be available on Tuesday and Friday, Itanagar to Nyapin (Sunday and Thursday) and Itanagar to Kra-Daadi would be available on Monday and Thursday.State Transport secretary Dani Sulu in another official order on Thursday directed that all inter-district routes, especially connecting Itanagar would be operated from respective stations as per earlier normal schedules.Sulu further directed that each bus station should deploy minimum of three vehicles for quarantine duties in their respective designated entry points while station superintendent of state transport services Itanagar and ISBT Naharlagun would deploy 15 buses at Police Training Centre (PTC) Banderdewa, designated as quarantine facility centre. The secretary in his order further stated that all senior station superintendents and station superintendents should send additional buses to Itanagar, if available for lifting stranded persons from the state capital. “Ticket bookings for all inter-district routes from Itanagar will be done online only and intra-district services operated on rural routes will book manually,” the order said adding, all bus services would be operated under strict observance of social distancing and other standard operating procedures (SOPs) as per guidelines of the Union Home Ministry and the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arunachal-pradesh-to-resume-state-transport-bus-service-from-may-18/story-jockea6Z5lfN8yEmh5gIfK.html
15-05-2020||India||‘No loudspeakers for azaan, only human voice allowed’: UP top court orders||The Allahabad High Court has held that azaan, or the Islamic call to ritual prayer, can be recited by a muezzin from minarets of the mosques by human voice only without using any amplifying device or loudspeakers. The court added that such recitation by human voice cannot be hindered under the pretext of violation of the guidelines issued by the state government to contain the spread of coronavirus.It also said that one can’t use a loudspeaker for azaan without prior permission of district administration in accordance with the law. “We are of the opinion that azaan may be an essential and integral part of Islam but its recitation through loud­speakers or other sound amplifying devices cannot be said to be an integral part of the religion warranting protection of the fundamental right enshrined under Article 25, which is even otherwise subject to public order, morality or health and to other provisions in part III of the Constitution,” the bench ruled.Also Watch | COVID-19 l ‘Muslims to observe Ramzan at home’: Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi “It cannot be said that a citizen should be coerced to hear anything which he does not like or which he does not require since it amounts to taking away the fundamental right of other persons,” the bench added. However, the court shot down the state government’s contention that its recitation by human voice was violative of any provision of law. “The government had not been able to explain as to how the recitation of azaan merely through human voice can be violative of any provision of law or any guidelines issued in view of Covid-19 pandemic,” it said.The Bench, however, kept it open for petitioner to approach the district administration for permission to use loudspeaker for azaan. It added that one can’t use loudspeakers for azaan or for any other purpose without prior permission of district administration.The bench of Justices Shashi Kant Gupta and Ajit Kumar thus disposed of a PIL filed by BSP MP from Ghazipur, Afzal Ansari, seeking lifting of ban on azaan from mosques in Ghazipur. The petitioner’s plea was that there is no specific order in the central or state government guidelines to prohibit the recitation of azaan from the mosques. Therefore, the arbitrary decision taken by the district administration of Ghazipur to ban the prayer is illegal. The state government’s contention, the petitioner argued, was that religious activity of any religious group through loudspeaker has been restricted in the entire Uttar Pradesh in view of the guidelines of lockdown.Further, according to the state government , the Ghazipur district has been declared as hotspot area. Since azaan is a call for prayer on loudspeaker, hence it has been restricted in Ghazipur.The state government, in its affidavit, has also submitted a list of instances which have been filed disclosing how people assembled in mosques in Ghazipur following a call through azaan and administration had a tough time to control the situation.Azaan is recited by a ‘muezzin’, a man who calls Muslims to prayer from the minaret of a mosque at prescribed times of the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-loudspeakers-for-azaan-only-human-voice-allowed-up-top-court-orders/story-lXBhvVdLQUycTPjjSAEUjI.html
15-05-2020||India||Uttarakhand govt to decide on allowing Kanwar Yatra after Centre’s guidelines on lockdown 4.0||The Uttarakhand government will take a decision on whether to allow the Kanwar Yatra that attracts over 3 crore devotees to Haridwar, after lockdown 4.0 guidelines are issued by the Centre.Cabinet minister and state government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said the matter will be discussed after guidelines for lockdown 4.0 are announced by the Central government. Kanwar Yatra is an annual pilgrimage of Shiva devotees, known as Kanvarias to Haridwar, Gaumukh and Gangotri in Uttarakhand to fetch the holy water of the Ganga River. The devotees gather Ganga water (Gangajal) and carry it across hundreds of miles to offer the same in their local Shaiva shrines. In Kanwar Yatra which starts after monsoons, the devotees come from the states of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, Punjab, Bihar, Odisha, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh to UttarakhandDue to their arrival in huge numbers, the Uttarakhand government has to make special arrangements for their safety and to facilitate the smooth conduct of the yatra.Mahamandaleshwar Harichetnanand Maharaj of Shri Panchayati Bada Udasin Akhada said whether Kanwar Yatra should be allowed this year or not, depends on the containment of the coronavirus epidemic. “The portals of the Badrinath shrine were opened on Friday but only 28 people were allowed at the shrine. No pilgrims were allowed. The government is yet to take a decision on whether to allow the Char Dham yatra this year or not,” he said.“So, if Covid-19 cases increase further we have to abide by the Union government guidelines as currently only ritualistic religious events are being allowed. As other pilgrimages are not being allowed in the state at present, we will have to wait for some time, nearly two months when the Kanwar Yatra starts. We hope till then the situation will normalize and the government can take the right decision based on the situation then,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-govt-to-decide-on-allowing-kanwar-yatra-after-centre-s-guidelines-on-lockdown-4-0/story-RBV0IEPQBbMVQf3Qh6WDsJ.html
15-05-2020||India||SC decides to keep working during summer vacation, at least till June 19||The Supreme Court has decided keep its summer vacation in abeyance till June 19 to make up for the loss in working hours due to Covid-19 lockdown.The court will hear cases through video conferencing from May 18 till June 19.The decision was taken after the Chief Justice of India (CJI), SA Bobde after considering the views of all the Supreme Court judges.Official communication in this regard is likely to be issued by the court soon. Supreme Court’s summer vacation was scheduled to commence on May 18 and Friday was expected to be the last working day of the top court. The court was to reopen on July 6. With the court now deciding to function till June 19, the CJI will take a call on the summer vacation later. While many high courts have already cancelled their summer vacation to make up for the loss of working hours due to Covid-19 lockdown, the Supreme Court had not made any announcement in this regard till now.The Supreme Court Bar Association led by President Dushyant Dave had passed resolutions expressing their willingness to work through the summer vacation and requested the CJI cancel the summer vacation.The Supreme Court, which is under complete shutdown due to the Coronavirus threat, has been hearing only extremely urgent cases since March 23 via video conferencing without the personal presence of lawyers. The top court had issued a circular on March 23 suspending entry of lawyers and litigants to the court premises and directing that only extremely urgent cases will be taken up for hearing through video conferencing during the lockdown period.The video conferencing is conducted by the court through ‘Vidyo app’ which can be downloaded on mobile phones and desktop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-decides-to-keep-working-during-summer-vacation-at-least-till-june-19/story-R3cg9tfwQVFiHbSpJPVwxL.html
15-05-2020||India||Health minister Harsh Vardhan seeks ban on spitting in public, sale of tobacco products to check coronavirus||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday appealed to all states and union territories to ban the sale of tobacco products and spitting in public to check the spread of the coronavirus disease.The appeal comes after the Rajasthan and Jharkhand governments issued orders in this regard to prevent the spread of the coronavirus infection.In a letter to all state health ministers, Vardhan said smokeless tobacco users have a tendency to spit in public places, increasing health risks especially those of spreading contagious diseases like Covid-19, tuberculosis, swine flu, encephalitis and others.“Use of smokeless tobacco also creates an unhygienic environment which further spreads the diseases. Large gatherings at the retail outlets where smokeless tobacco products are sold, also pose the risk of spread of Covid,” PTI quoted him as saying.In the letter dated May 11, the Union minister underlined that tobacco use is a major threat to public health globally. He also mentioned the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) appeal to the public not to consume and spit smokeless tobacco products in public places.Chewing tobacco products and areca nut increases production of saliva followed by a very strong urge to spit. Spitting in public places could enhance the spread of the Covid-19, Vardhan said.“By banning spitting in public places, states and UTs can help in achieving not only Swachh Bharat but also Swasth Bharat (Clean India and Healthy India),” he said.Vardhan also mentioned the May 1 guidelines issued by the Union Home Ministry under the National Disaster Management Act, 2005, which stipulate that “spitting in public places shall be punishable with fine as may be prescribed by the state/UT local authority and consumption of liquor, pan, gutkha, tobacco etc in public places is not allowed”. Appreciating the efforts taken by Rajasthan and Jharkhand in this direction, the health minister urged all states to take similar measures and create widespread awareness regarding the harm of spitting in public places.The Rajasthan government had by an ordinance banned spinning in public places and sale of paan, gutka and tobacco in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. The Jharkhand too has imposed a complete ban on all types of tobacco products to prevent spitting in public places that could increase the spread of coronavirus infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-minister-harsh-vardhan-seeks-ban-on-spitting-in-public-sale-of-tobacco-products-to-check-coronavirus/story-LiHSD41pOV0EnBvODtVxQK.html
15-05-2020||India||24-year-old suspected Covid-19 patient commits suicide in Pune||A 24-year-old man, who was admitted to a private hospital in Maharashtra’s Pune for breathing issues, jumped from the third floor of the building late on Thursday, police said.Shafil Pathan, inspector (Crime), said the man stepped out of the ward on the pretext of going to the toilet and instead jumped down from the terrace of the building at 9pm. He was under stress and feared that he had contracted the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), he added.“His throat swab sample was collected on Thursday afternoon and after hours he committed suicide. He was facing psychological issues and seems to have committed the act in a fit of psychosis,” Pathan said.Pankaj Deshmukh, the deputy commissioner of police, said the test report of the deceased was awaited. He was a resident of Mula Road and unemployed while his brother works with Ammunition Factory in Khadki. An autopsy was performed on his body late in the night and it was handed over to his relatives for last rites.The man, a school drop, is survived by his parents and two brothers and a sister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/24-year-old-suspected-covid-19-patient-commits-suicide-in-pune/story-Jb0Hb1ICTHw3m48k5V8fqK.html
15-05-2020||India||Monsoon likely to hit Kerala on June 5, says IMD||The southwest monsoon is likely to hit Kerala on June 5, a delay of four days as compared to its normal onset date, the India Meteorological Department said on Friday. The onset of monsoon over Kerala marks the commencement of the four-month long rainfall season from June to September. According to the normal onset date, monsoon makes an arrival in Kerala on June 1. “The onset of southwest monsoon over Kerala this year is likely to be slightly delayed as compared to normal date of onset. The monsoon onset over Kerala this year is likely to be on June 5 with a model error of plus or minus 4 days,” the IMD said. The monsoon is likely to arrive over the Andaman and Nicobar islands by May 16, six days before its new onset date of May 22 due to a cyclonic storm in the Bay of Bengal. Even last year, the monsoon had reached the Andaman and Nicobar archipelago on May 18, two days ahead of its then normal onset date of May 20. But due to its sluggish pace, it reached Kerala on June 8. It covered the entire country by July 19. According to the IMD forecast, monsoon is likely to be normal this year. The country receives 75 per cent of its rainfall from the southwest monsoon during June to September. It is not only crucial for farming in the country, but also for replenishing reservoirs, and more importantly to the economy which is still largely dependent on agriculture.    Northeast monsoon is another phenomenon that brings rainfall to Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, parts of Kerala and Andhra Pradesh from October to December.   From this year, the IMD has also revised the dates of onset and withdrawal dates of the monsoon for several parts of the country based on the data from 1960 to 2019. The previous dates were based on the data from 1901 to 1940.    However, the onset date for monsoon over Kerala, which is June 1, remains unchanged In states like Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Jharkhand, Bihar and parts of Uttar Pradesh, monsoon will be delayed by 3-7 days compared to the existing normal dates.For the national capital, the new normal onset date for monsoon has been revised from June 23 to June 27 -- a delay of four days. Similarly, dates have been revised for Mumbai and Kolkata from June 10 to 11, and for Chennai from June 1 to 4.   However, over extreme northwest India, the  monsoon will arrive a little earlier, on July 8, as compared to the existing date of July 15. The new date for monsoon withdrawal from south India is October 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-likely-to-hit-kerala-on-june-5-says-imd/story-MmGsBF2fcHTwUNfK7G0MWM.html
15-05-2020||India||Lockdown: Air India to operate 5 flights from Canada to fly back stranded Indians||When a young Indian tourist arrived in Canada on March 7, among the objectives of the planned 12-day vacation was to fulfil a dream of visiting the Niagara Falls. Instead, nearly two months after she was originally scheduled to return to India, 32-year-old Smitha B from Bangalore remains stranded in the Greater Toronto Area.Now staying at a hotel in Brampton courtesy the community organization Canada India Foundation (CIF), next door to a family of four in a similar quandary, Smitha said, “My dream place was Niagara, but I didn’t get to go anywhere. People like me ended up like this.” That is, stuck in Canada, as her return flight to India on March 19 was cancelled and she has struggled to survive in a foreign country and has been relying on the meals and the free hotel room provided by the CIF.However, now Smitha is hopeful of finally returning to Bangalore and ease the anxiety of her worried parents, who live in Mysore. She has registered with the India’s High Commission in Ottawa for one of the first lot of repatriation flights from Canada that will be operated by Air India, beginning May 20.Like her, there are many who desperately want to return to India but weren’t able to because of the lockdown and the absence of air connectivity. India’s High Commissioner to Canada Ajay Bisaria said nearly 5,000 people had registered on the mission’s website for the flights.Initially, there will be five flights from Canada: three from Toronto and two from Vancouver; and these will fly over 1400 Indians back home. Each ticket will cost over Rs 1.25 lakh. The flights will connect the travellers to a number of destinations in India: Delhi, Mumbai, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad, Amritsar and Jaipur. Bisaria said the flight arrangement was based on domicile of the passengers since travel between states in India was still problematic. The first list of passengers will have those with “compelling” reasons to return to India.Depending on demand, the Indian government will commission more such flights and Bisaria has advised Indians stranded in Canada to keep registering with the High Commission, if they hadn’t so far, since there may be more “beyond” the five that will leave, beginning on May 20.Canada’s High Commission in India has also informed its citizens in India that they can also buy tickets on these commercial flights to return to Canada, as Air India is accepting reservations for the outward destination.Meanwhile, Smitha, waiting to return home, understands that on arrival she will have to undergo mandatory quarantine for 14 days. But, for her, only the journey matters at this time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-air-india-to-operate-5-flights-from-canada-to-fly-back-stranded-indians/story-juB12ExUqBmpwyCpde7kIN.html
15-05-2020||India||Odisha man waives off rent of all his 12 tenants, distributes 25 kg rice to each of them||A landlord in Odisha’s coastal Ganjam district, which has emerged as the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) epicentre in the state, has waived off May’s rent for all his 12 tenants.Murli Mohan Acharya, a landlord from Berhampur’s Somnath Nagar neighbourhood, has overnight become a symbol of generosity and benevolence amid the socio-economic disruptions caused by the raging Covid-19 outbreak.He not only waived off his 12 tenants’ rents for May, but also distributed 25 kilograms (kg) of rice to each of them. The tenants earn their livelihood either as roadside snack vendors or run small-scale businesses.“All my 12 tenants are facing a lot of economic hardship because their businesses are shut since end-March when nationwide lockdown restrictions were imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19 outbreak. Of the 12, three have left for their native villages along with families. I acceded to my tenants’ request and waived off their rent for May. I also gave each family 25 kg of rice to tide over the crisis, as the state government’s help has been few and far between,” Acharya said. Berhampur sub-collector Shinde Dattatreya Bhausaheb felicitated Acharya for his noble deed, and urged other landlords to take a leaf out of his book. “We can change our society in a big way, even if 1% of landlords are willing to help out their tenants like what Acharya did,” Bhausaheb said.Earlier in March, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik had appealed to the landlords to either waive off or defer the collection of their rents by at least three months due to the Covid-19 outbreak.“Let each one of us rise and be there for one another amid these hard times. Let’s show the world that Odisha cares,” the CM had said. Patnaik had also urged to landlords that tenants should not be asked to vacate their accommodation for non-payment of rents during the healthcare emergency.In April, two landlords in Bhubaneswar had waived off rent for their tenants.Prashant Kumar Shreechandan, a landlord from Bhubaneswar’s Rasulgarh, had waived off the rent of his 26 tenants, which amounted to Rs 62,000, and promised the same for May if lockdown persisted.Similarly, Jitu Jena, a landlord from Bhubaneswar’s Palasuni locality, wrote off the April’s rent for his 10 tenants.“We’re united in trying to prevent the spread of Covid-19. We need to fight each other amid this unprecedented crisis,” said Jena.However, not all landlords are as benevolent as Jena, Acharya, and Shreechandan.For instance, Manmohan Pradhan, a landlord from Bhubaneswar’s Unit-1 area, almost doubled the rent of his tenant Mangaraj Sahoo, a driver, and gave him an ultimatum: either pay the increased rent or vacate the house.Sahoo, who had taken up the accommodation on a monthly rent of Rs 3,000 seven months ago, lodged a complaint against Pradhan at Capital police station on May 10 after his rent was hiked to Rs 5,500.While in April, a 60-year-old cancer patient in the coastal Balasore district had to spend over eight hours outside his rented house at Sahadevkhunta after the landlord refused to let him and his family members in as they had visited Bhubaneswar, another Covid-19 hotspot in the state. Later, he was allowed to enter his rented premise after police intervened. However, his two sons, who had accompanied him to Bhubaneswar, were asked to stay away for 14 days.A landlord also prevented a woman from entering her rented accommodation after her husband, a retired BSNL employee, died recently as he was denied admission to a few hospitals. The panic-stricken landlord suspected that the man’s death is related to Covid-19 and his widow could be a carrier of SARS-CoV-2 that causes the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-man-waives-off-rent-of-all-his-12-tenants-distributes-25-kg-rice-to-each-of-them/story-lfnUO0LcXlDiVxU30GnSeJ.html
15-05-2020||India||Assam CM asks Centre to extend lockdown by 2 more weeks||The Assam government has written to the Centre to extend the Covid-19 lockdown by two more weeks, chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal said on Friday.During his last video conference with chief ministers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had sought suggestions regarding the lockdown and the states were asked to submit written proposals by May 15.“We have prepared our proposals and submitted them. We made one thing clear – that we want the lockdown extended by another two weeks beyond May 17 and requested the same,” Sonowal told a news conference here.Without elaborating on details, Sonowal said besides taking up the issue of extending the lockdown and how it should be implemented, the state government had sought a financial package from the Centre to tide over the economic crisis triggered by the pandemic.“During the video conference, we apprised the PM about steps taken to fight the pandemic and revive the economy. We also sought financial support from the Centre,” he said.According to a study by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), industries and the government in Assam suffered losses of Rs 1,000 crore a day during the lockdown. Sonowal said his government hasn’t carried out a separate study of losses incurred by individual sectors.The state government will try to provide jobs to the thousands of workers who had returned to Assam from across the country, he said. There is no estimate as yet on how many workers are expected to return to the state.“These youth are Assam’s skill force. They are our assets and not liabilities. Based on recommendations of the economic task force constituted by the government, we will try to boost our industries and agro-economy and try to rehabilitate them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cm-asks-centre-to-extend-lockdown-by-2-more-weeks/story-f4JkvFHsnSysPDpGUkqGEL.html
15-05-2020||India||Badrinath shrine opens amid lockdown, first prayers performed on PM Modi’s behalf||The Badrinath shrine in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district, which is one of Char Dhams or the four main pilgrimage centres of the Hindus, opened on early Friday without the usual throng of pilgrims amid the coronavirus pandemic. A state government official privy to the development said the portals were opened at 4.30am amid rituals performed by the head priest Rawal Ishwari Prasad Nambudiri and 10 others priests of the shrine. “The preparations for the portal opening ritual had started at 3am while following the precautions in the pandemic. As it as an important occasion every year at the shrine, the whole temple was decorated with about 10 quintals of flowers,” said the official. “However, for the first time there was no traditional military band to mark the occasion nor any pilgrims at the temple to witness the holy rituals of portal opening due to Covid-19 pandemic,” the official added.The first puja was performed by the priests on behalf of Prime Minister Narendra Modi at 9am after the Badrinath Temple opened.Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat congratulated pilgrims across the world on the opening of Badrinath’s portals. “With Badrinath, all the Char Dham shrines are now open but the Char Dham Yatra is yet to be started due to the ongoing pandemic,” Rawat said. “We are in talks with the Centre to start the Char Dham Yatra but at the right time considering the pandemic and lockdown. Hope the pandemic will soon end with the blessings of Lord Badrinath and the Yatra will start,” he added. Badrinath was scheduled to open on April 30 as per rituals. However, the date was shifted to May 15 due to the coronavirus pandemic in an unprecedented move in the history of the shrine.Manujendra Shah, the king of the Tehri royal family who is considered the ‘Bolanda Badri’ or talking Lord Badri, had on April 20 changed the date of opening of the portals of Badrinath shrine as the chief priest was under the quarantine after returning from Kerala. Around 10,000 pilgrims had visited the shrine last year on the first day of its opening as per an estimated figure.The portals of Kedarnath temple were also opened on April 29 after a six-month-long winter break. Pilgrims were prohibited from visiting the shrine because of the lockdown.The Badrinath Temple is located along the banks of the Alaknanda River in Chamoli district at a height of more than 10,000 feet.Photo caption: The Badrinath shrine is seen decorated with flowers during the opening of its portals on Friday. The first puja was performed by the priests on behalf of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/badrinath-shrine-opens-amid-lockdown-first-prayers-performed-on-pm-modi-s-behalf/story-TEKr0TsPSqwjVoOAs7SQcL.html
15-05-2020||India||World Bank to fund $1bn for mobile safety nets for Covid-19 hit migrants in India||The World Bank on Friday announced a $1-billion programme aiming to integrate India’s 400-plus fragmented social-security programmes for migrant workers hit by the coronavirus pandemic, part of an initiative that seeks to rebalance access to safety nets between rural and urban India. The “Accelerating India’s COVID-19 Social Protection Response Programme” will focus especially on making social benefits such as subsidised food under the National Food Security Act, cash transfers and pensions etc, portable so that beneficiaries could access them from anywhere in the country, not just from their home districts, the World Bank said. Portability simply refers to a digitised, universal and always-on platform, which ensures benefits move along with migrants.“Very clearly, everybody recognises the shock (from the pandemic). The choice is being said to be between lives and livelihoods. This is not a choice the government of India is making,” Junaid Ahmad, the World Bank’s country director, said. Ahmad said this was a “watershed moment” in social security of the country because the government had for the first time opened up an “important window” in the form of the state disaster response fund, which is now linked to social safety. The Union government had, in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, allowed states to use the fund freely without usual approvals to provide social protection. A widespread lockdown announced on March 24 shuttered shops, factories and construction sites, pushing millions of migrant workers out of jobs. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday announced free food assistance to 80 million migrant workers that is worth Rs 3,500 core, part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Rs 20 lakh crore economic package to pull the economy out of a slump. The first phase of the World Bank operation will be implemented countrywide through the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY). It will immediately help scale-up cash transfers and food benefits, using a core set of pre-existing national platforms and programs such as the Public Distribution System (PDS) and Direct Benefit Transfers (DBT), the bank said.Jobless migrant workers, hit by the lockdown, have fallen through the cracks because static social safety nets did not reach them in the absence of portability. Economist Abhijit Sen, however, cautioned against over-centralising India’s safety net. “If the World Bank wants to streamline our social safety nets, first off, they are getting into very complicated things. The issue sometimes is not so much about how to reach the people as it is about how to get two wings of the government talking,” Sen, a former member of the erstwhile Planning Commission, said. The arguments are on two things, he said.“One, don’t over-centralise things. Where the World Bank can intervene and should is portability. Two, if I had to give out a billion dollars, then, I would give very little of that to the federal government and most of it to the states, in fact, more to the municipalities,” he said.More than 90% of India’s workforce is employed in the informal sector, without access to basic savings or pensions, or paid leave from work.“There are large transfers to the rural poor. Look at the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana. The idea is to make social benefits such as food and cash transfers just as easily accessible for urban informal workers and migrants,” Shrayana Bhattacharya, the World Bank lead of the project, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-bank-to-fund-1bn-for-mobile-safety-nets-for-covid-19-hit-migrants-in-india/story-zkurNHI2rqyZ8aVElOSQIP.html
15-05-2020||India||Chinese-origin frog species found in Arunachal Pradesh||A team of zoologists from Zoological Survey of India (ZSI) have found a frog species, with origins in the Tibet region of China, in Tawang area of Arunachal Pradesh.Details of the find and the rare species ‘Nanorana conaensis’ found at an elevation of 2844 metres above sea level was published in ZSI’s latest journal on Thursday. “The species was first sighted in Tibet in 1981. There was a report of a sighting in Arunachal Pradesh in 2018 by some researchers, however, no details regarding the sighting was reported,” said Bhaskar Saikia a senior zoological assistant with ZSI’s Shillong based North Eastern Regional Centre. “We were able to collect a specimen of the frog from Tawang in March the same year and conducted molecular studies on it. This is the first documentary confirmation of the presence of the species, which has origins in China, in India,” Saikia, one of the four zoologists involved in the study, added.The species was found in a domestic water tank at Khremteng village on the outskirts of Tawang town. Since the first sighting in Tibet, only one specimen of the frog was collected in 2013 in Haa district of Bhutan at a height of 4066m.“The species measuring around 5cm when fully grown is a rare one and is sighted very occasionally. One reason is that they exist at very high altitudes of above 2,500m to nearly 4,000m. Hence there is less chance of encountering them,” said Saikia.The zoologists collected two specimens of the frog from Tawang and carried out molecular studies on them to verify their morphological structures and ascertain that it was the same species that was found in Tibet and Bhutan.Studies have revealed that the species dwell in small streams, springs, puddles, but mostly hidden under rocks or fallen trees in shallow water. When they are scared, they immediately jump into the water.With the find, Arunachal Pradesh now represents the eastern limit of the species habitat while western Bhutan being the western limit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-origin-frog-species-found-in-arunachal-pradesh/story-xVRHrSYEDMtVWJYSKXfNzN.html
15-05-2020||India||Assam writes to Centre favouring extension of Covid-19 lockdown by 2 more weeks||Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal said on Friday that he has written to the Centre about extending lockdown by two more weeks beyond May 17.Sonowal addressed a press conference on Friday where he gave details about the Covid-19 situation in Assam and what his government is doing to tackle the crisis.Sonowal said at the press conference that all states were supposed to give their feedback on the extension of the lockdown by Friday, and the Assam government has already conveyed its stand to the Centre.“Let the Government of India take a view on that. I don’t want to say much about this now. All the states have written to the Centre, which will take a decision on the extension,” he added.With 22 fresh cases detected in Guwahati in 24 hours, the authorities in Assam are on alert and there’s anxiety among residents of the state and North-East’s biggest city.While 15 people were detected positive on Wednesday, another 7 new cases were reported on Thursday taking the total number of patients in the state to 87. While two patients have died, 41 others have recovered, 43 are undergoing treatment and one patient has migrated to Bihar.In view of the spurt in cases, nine areas in Guwahati have been turned into containment zones.Assam on Thursday released a fresh set of standard operating procedures to be followed while dealing with passengers returning to the state from other parts of the country by trains.The procedures list out how passengers will be dealt with once they enter Assam and get down at various stations. Officials have been asked to follow the rules on transportation, screening, testing and quarantine for the passengers.Since resumption of inter-state movement on May 4, over 11,000 people have returned by road from across the country and other states in the northeast back to Assam. Eighteen of them have been found positive for Covid-19 till date.Nearly 500 passengers reached various locations in Assam on Wednesday and Thursday by the first train bringing back residents from Delhi. Two more trains, one from Delhi and another from Chennai, carrying over 800 passengers will reach the state on Thursday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-writes-to-centre-favouring-extension-of-covid-19-lockdown-by-2-more-weeks/story-Zj6UaYBzp20ikFm7cm5I8L.html
15-05-2020||India||Part of Sena Bhawan in Delhi shut after soldier tests Covid-19 +ve||A part of a floor at the Sena Bhawan in New Delhi was closed on Friday after a soldier tested positive for Covid-19. Sena Bhavan is the headquarters of the Indian ArmyThe affected area of the Bhawan has been shut for sanitation and disinfection. Actions as per protocol, such as contact tracing and quarantine are in progress.In April, the ministry of civil aviation, headquartered at Rajiv Gandhi Bhawan in the capital’s Jor Bagh area, was sealed after an employee tested positive for the coronavirus disease. A week after the aviation ministry incident, government think-tank Niti Aayog sealed its office in Delhi after its staffer tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/part-of-a-floor-at-army-s-sena-bhawan-in-delhi-shut-after-soldier-tests-covid-19-positive/story-rEgLNLCoRDuPbo3LxjyAVO.html
15-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Covid cases in Maharashtra more than double in 2 weeks & all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Maharashtra: Overall Covid-19 positive cases more than double in 2 weeksMaharashtra has reported 17,026, or over 60%, of the total coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases in the state between May 1 and 14, the state health and family welfare department data showed. The trend is likely to lead to the imposition of lockdown 4.0, as the state government is in its favour after the ongoing restrictions lapse on Sunday. Read moreWorld Bank lauds PM Modi’s Atmanirbhar Mission in fight against Covid-19Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Atmanirbhar Mission came for praise by the World Bank as it approved a $1 billion social protection package for India amid the coronavirus pandemic that has affected people and its economy. Read moreActivists, locals oppose Kinnaur’s Kashang Hydro Power ProjectActivists and locals in Kinnaur have asked the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) to not extend environment clearance to the integrated Kashang Hydro Project. Read moreLow-intensity earthquake hits Pitampura in Delhi, fourth in more than a monthA 2.2-magnitude earthquake hit Pitampura in North-West Delhi, news agency PTI reported quoting officials from National Centre for Seismology. This comes nearly a week after an earthquake of 3.4 magnitude struck near Sonia Vihar in North-East Delhi. Read moreTaiwan rejects China’s main condition for WHO participationTaiwan’s health minister rejected on Friday China’s main condition for the island to be able to take part in the World Health Organization (WHO) - that it accepts it is part of China - ahead of a key meeting of the body during a pandemic. Read moreKuldeep’s refresher course, by the GangaAs a chinaman bowler, Kuldeep Yadav belongs to a rare breed of spinners. His shock value was evident as he grabbed four quick wickets on Test debut to help India seal the 2017 home series against Australia. Read moreHrithik Roshan, Ranveer Singh, Akshay Kumar share favourite 90s movies, Andaz Apna Apna and Govinda films are clear winnersAs all films and shoots stand cancelled amid lockdown, Bollywood celebs are now reminiscing about the films they worked in or loved watching in the 90s. Read moreKareena Kapoor reveals the secret behind her flawless skinWhen it comes to flawless skin in the Bollywood industry, Kareena Kapoor Khan with her peaches and cream complexion is the first to come to mind. Read moreDerpy cat falls into an empty cardboard box while playing detective. WatchWe all probably know the feeling of doing something risky. There is always that one moment when we know it can all go south. It is usually how one reacts in that particular moment which defines the outcome of the entire circumstance. Read moreWatch: India to overtake China in covid cases today and why we still lag in testing||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-covid-cases-in-maharashtra-more-than-double-in-2-weeks-all-the-latest-news/story-5nqItvrK6sPRuDfK4sdPkI.html
15-05-2020||India||Supreme Court stays Gujarat HC order setting aside election of BJP leader Bhupendrasinh Chudasama||The Supreme Court on Friday stayed an order by the Gujarat High Court, setting aside BJP leader Bhupendrasinh Chudasama’s 2017 election.A bench headed by Justice MM Shantanagouder issued notice to the Election Commission and Chudasama’s rival Congress candidate Ashwin Rathod on the appeal filed by the BJP leader against the high court order of May 12.Senior advocates Harish Salve and NK Kaul represented Chudasama while the rival Congress candidate was represented by senior advocate Kapil Sibal.Chudasama won from Dholka assembly constituency in the election held on December 14, 2017. Rathod had challenged Chudasama’s victory by a margin of mere 327 votes.In his election petition, Rathod alleged that Chudasama indulged in “corrupt practice and breach of many of the mandatory instructions of the Election Commission, at various stages of the election process, more particularly at the time of counting of votes”.The high court had on May 12, nullified 2017 election of Chudasama on the ground of malpractice and manipulation and also refused to stay of the operation of the order till the disposal of his appeal. The high court had held that Returning Officer “illegally rejected” 429 postal ballots during the counting of votes, while the victory margin was only 327. Chudasama currently holds charge of the education, law and justice, legislative and parliamentary affairs, and some other departments in the Vijay Rupani government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-stays-gujarat-hc-order-setting-aside-election-of-bjp-leader-bhupendrasinh-chudasama/story-9vTCWIKpQa1ghkTaNxvtRI.html
15-05-2020||India||Settle your accounts first: Chidambaram to FM, Gadkari||Former finance minister P Chidambaram on Friday took a jibe at successor Nirmala Sitharaman and her ministerial colleague Nitin Gadkari for solutions they have proposed for the problems of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs).“Minister Gadkari says that governments and PSUs owe Rs 5 lakh crore as unpaid dues to MSMEs” he tweeted. Will the two ministers ‘settle their accounts’ first and let MSMEs save themselves without government’s ‘help’?Gadkari, the Union minister for MSMEs and road transport and highways, had said government agencies are yet to clear dues to such enterprises amounting to more than Rs 5 lakh crore.Noting that the MSME sector is on the verge of collapse, Gadkari also urged major industries to release outstanding dues to such firms within a month. “The position of MSMEs is worst as they are now engaged in a battle for their survival,” he added.He also said pendency of dues owed to MSMEs by the Centre, state governments, public sector undertakings and major industries is very high.Chidambaram said in another tweet: “Minister Sitharaman says she will offer collateral free loan of Rs 3 lakh crore to MSMEs (numbering 45 lakhs).”In the first tranche of a stimulus package on Wednesday, Sitharaman had announced that Rs 3 lakh crore in collateral-free automatic loans for businesses, including MSMEs, will be provided to meet operational liabilities, buy raw materials and restart operations.Chidambaram asked, “So, who is the lender and who is the borrower? Will the two ministers ‘settle their accounts’ first and let MSMEs save themselves without government’s ‘help’?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/settle-your-accounts-first-chidambaram-to-fm-gadkari/story-BDUVA3PBDzflcPoF8s6sHJ.html
15-05-2020||India||Maharashtra: Overall Covid-19 positive cases more than double in 2 weeks||Maharashtra has reported 17,026, or over 60%, of the total coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases in the state between May 1 and 14, the state health and family welfare department data showed.The trend is likely to lead to the imposition of lockdown 4.0, as the state government is in its favour after the ongoing restrictions lapse on Sunday. However, it waiting for the Union Ministry of Home Affairs’ (MHA) guidelines.The Covid-19 positive cases in the state, which has topped the country, have increased from 10,498 on April 30 to 27,524 on May 14, or a 61.85% spike. While the number of Covid-19 related death rose from 459 to 1,019 during the same period, the data showed.On Thursday, Maharashtra recorded the highest single-day spike in Covid-19 positive cases at 1,602 new cases, as compared to 10,201 reported in all of April.Mumbai, the epicentre of Covid-19 positive cases in the country, has recorded 57.81% (9,677 cases) of the total cases in the state between May 1 and 14. The Covid-19 related deaths in the city have gone up from 290 to 621 during this corresponding period.However, state government officials have ruled out community transmission and allayed apprehensions about an exponential rise in new infections.“The number of Covid-19 positive cases are rising, but they cannot be called exponential growth. If the number of fresh cases doubles on a daily basis, then it can be called exponential growth. Besides, it hasn’t reached the community transmission stage as that happens only when exponential growth occurs,” said Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER).On Friday, the state government is likely to send a report to the Centre, urging an extension of the lockdown restrictions till May 31.On Thursday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with his cabinet ministers to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the state and the measures that need to be implemented to contain the spread of the viral outbreak. A consensus was arrived at that the lockdown 4:0 needs to be clamped from May 18, especially in red zones such as the Mumbai and Pune Metropolitan Regions, Malegaon and Solapur, according to a state minister, who was present at the meeting.“The CM has spoken to all the district and divisional collectors. The government expects the Centre to relax some restrictions even in red zones,” said an official.The Centre is expected to ease the restrictions for industrial and commercial activities, but the state government has the power to enforce stricter norms in urban areas that have emerged as hotspots, the official added.The state health department authorities have conducted 2,40,145 tests at various public and private facilities. Of them, 2,12,621 people tested negative.At present, Maharashtra has 1,512 active containment zones. A total of 14,253 survey teams, comprising doctors and paramedical staff, have screened over 59.04 lakh people.The state’s mortality rate has come down to 3.76% (975 deaths) on Wednesday, from 7.41% (148 cases) on April 13. However, it continues to be higher than the national mortality rate of 3.27% (2,549 deaths) till Wednesday, data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-overall-covid-19-positive-cases-more-than-double-in-2-weeks/story-HaUsi10Mh8ipdYoMH0OioM.html
15-05-2020||India||Sharp-shooters in Kerala on the trail of a ‘man-eater’ tiger during lockdown||The residents of a Kerala village have hardly stepped out of their houses for a week now, and not just because of the lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The 13,000-odd residents of Thannithode village in central Kerala’s Pathanamthitta district have been forced to stay put in their homes because of a tiger which killed one person last week. Three sharp-shooters, 50 forest and district officials and some villagers have since then been on the trail of the big cat which strayed into human habitat and killed a rubber tapper. Though the officials and the villagers put up a cage with a goat in it to catch the big cat, but it attacked a cow instead.It all began with the attack on the 38-year-old rubber tapper Bineesh Mathew on May 6. When his colleagues heard cries for help and rushed to him, they found a tiger dragging him to a nearby bush. After they pelted stones and tried to distract the tiger by making noises, the animal left a dead Mathew and went back in to the forest.“It is a big tiger. It is either aged or injured. This happened around 12 noon,” said T Mathew, another tapper, who witnessed the attack.Following the death of the tapper, Pathanamthitta district collector PB Nooh declared prohibitory orders in the village.After the incident, the animal was sighted at many places and attacked several cows, goats and dogs in the area. Though the forest officials have spotted the tiger through night vision cameras and drones, it is yet to be caught.“We have faced threats of elephants, wild boars and other animals. But this is the first time we are facing the tiger threat. It was spotted at many places before the attack. We dread to even allow our children outside our house,” said MS Indira, a panchyat member of the area.The village is situated on the fringes of a deep forest. Indira said that the tiger has evoked more fear in the villagers than the Covid-19 pandemic.Wildlife experts say tiger attacks are very rare in Kerala which houses two tiger reserves and five wildlife sanctuaries,.“We are trying our best to tranquillise it and shift it to deep forests. Many top forest and vet officials are camping in the area and will try their best to capture it alive. If they do not succeed, we will shoot it,” said state forest minister K Raju who announced a relief of Rs 10 lakh to the family members of the victim. However, conservationists have asked authorities to relocate the animal instead of shooting it.In November 2018, a female tiger Avani was shot dead in Maharashtra’s Yavatmal by a hunter hired by the forest department. The tigress had Avni had allegedly killed 13 people since June 2016, forcing the forest department to initiate a hunt for her. Her killing had led to widespread protests by the animal rights activists leading to the state government initiating a probe into the animal’s killing which was closed in February 2019.However, the Uddhav Thackeray-led state government reopened investigations into the killing of tigress T1 or Avni in January this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharp-shooters-in-kerala-on-the-trail-of-a-man-eater-tiger-during-lockdown/story-JjqxojWXuFFfPCF0etnCYL.html
15-05-2020||India||‘How can we stop it?’: Supreme Court on plea to halt migrant workers’ movement on roads||‘How can we stop it?’: Supreme Court on plea to halt migrant workers’ movement on roads||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-can-we-stop-it-supreme-court-on-plea-to-halt-migrant-workers-movement-on-roads/story-1rVSQfvtfwTcYHtywL2sLN.html
15-05-2020||India||World Bank lauds PM Modi’s Atmanirbhar Mission in fight against Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Atmanirbhar Mission came for praise by the World Bank as it approved a $1 billion social protection package for India amid the coronavirus pandemic that has affected people and its economy. Junaid Ahmad, World Bank’s India director, made the comments while announcing the aid to support India’s efforts for providing social assistance to poor and vulnerable households. “I think PM’s Atmanirbhar Mission is very important in terms of directions and India is not making a distinction between life and livelihoods in the aftermath of Covid-19,” Ahmad said.The social protection package for India is linked to the central government’s programmes. Ahmad said.World Bank said that the billion-dollar social protection package was in addition to the previous package of $1 billion allocated to India for Covid-19 emergency response and health systems.“The World Bank’s billion-dollar support for social protection will help India leverage its PM Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY),” Ahmad added.Last month, the bank had approved a plan to roll out $160 billion in emergency aid over 15 months to help countries deal with the impact of the global coronavirus pandemic.The board of the development lender had announced the first set of fast-track crisis funding, with an initial $1.9 billion going to projects in 25 countries and operations moving forward in another 40 nations.India was the largest beneficiary of the first wave of programmes with a facility for $1 billion.Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a Rs 20 lakh crore or $266 billion support package for the economy on Tuesday to help mitigate the damage caused by the coronavirus and the lockdown it has triggered.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has been announcing the details on the package, equivalent to around 10% of India’s GDP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-atmanirbhar-mission-very-important-in-covid-19-aftermath-world-bank-official/story-TQeXjhEaWlE6oyClF0Ic3J.html
15-05-2020||India||SC judge, family in self-quarantine after cook tests positive for Covid-19||A sitting judge of the Supreme Court (SC) and his family members have quarantined themselves after their cook tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive on Thursday.The cook had gone on leave on May 7 and could have contracted the disease while he was away, sources said.But the judge, who till recently heard cases via video-conferencing, quarantined himself along with his family members as a precautionary measure.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Earlier on April 27, a 37-year-old SC employee had tested Covid-19 positive. Two registrars of the apex court, who had interacted with the infected employee, and other security personnel at the SC were placed under quarantine to contain the spread of SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19.SC, which is closed because of the pandemic, has been hearing only urgent cases since March 23 via video-conferencing.On March 23, the SC had issued a circular, suspending the entry of lawyers and litigants to the court premises and directing that only urgent cases would be taken up for hearing via video-conferencing during the lockdown period, which was enforced on March 25 to contain the spread of the Covid-19 outbreak.The SC is conducting video-conferencing through ‘Vidyo app’, which can be downloaded on both mobile phones and desktop.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Friday is the last working day for the apex court before it closes for summer vacation. While many high courts have cancelled their summer vacation to make up for the loss of working hours due to the lockdown, the SC is yet to make any official announcement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-judge-family-in-self-quarantine-after-cook-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-TsW47GqoYODjEjWS7KRwKK.html
15-05-2020||India||Bombay HC asks CIDCO to pay 42 gardeners left without salary during Covid-19||The Bombay high court (HC) has come to the rescue of the families of 42 gardeners, who has been working as temporary workers for City & Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) of Maharashtra in New Panvel for long but have not been paid their monthly salaries since January.The court took note of their deplorable plight and directed CIDCO on Wednesday to pay them their unpaid salaries till April and treat their employment as regular and not temporary.The court has also asked CIDCO to issue identity cards to the gardeners by Monday and also regularly provide personal protective equipment (PPE) kits to them to carry out their work amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Maharashtra Kamgar Sanghatana, a union of temporary workers, had filed a plea in the HC on behalf of the gardeners, pleading to pay their pending monthly salaries at the earliest.Senior advocate Sanjay Singhvi and advocate Karishma Rao, who appeared on behalf of the Sanghatana, pointed out to the gross injustice that has been meted out to the gardeners, who have been working for CIDCO for long, but have been living off handouts from the non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and social workers amid the pandemic.They cited that on January 13, 2017, the Industrial Court at Thane had directed CIDCO to absorb the gardeners as permanent staff with immediate effect.On January 31, 2020, the HC, too, upheld the Thane court’s order and dismissed the plea filed by CIDCO.Advocate GS Hegde, who appeared on behalf of CIDCO, said that the corporation had instructed the contractor, who has hired these gardeners, to pay their monthly salaries on time.However, advocate Hegde’s argument failed to convince Justice Kathawalla. “None of the submissions made by advocate Hegde, on behalf of CIDCO, justify the inhuman and callous conduct of non-payment of the earned wages since January 2020 to these workers and deserve severe condemnation,” the judge said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-asks-cidco-to-pay-42-gardeners-left-without-salary-during-covid-19/story-Rlpp26lIffCX2e8sxrwPjP.html
15-05-2020||India||World Bank approves $1 bn for India as social security fund for urban poor, migrants||The World Bank has approved US $1 billion for India as social security technology fund for country’s urban poor and migrant workers during the coronavirus crisis.This takes the total commitment from the World Bank towards emergency Covid-19 response in India to US $2 billion. A US $1 billion support was announced last month to support India’s health sector.The focus will be to enable India to integrate all of its 400-plus social security schemes at a technology level, the bank said.“The project will be crucial to rebalance social security towards urban poor, as much as rural,” said Junaid Ahmad, country director, World Bank.“I think PMs ‘Atmanirbhar mission’ is very important in terms of directions and India is not making distinction between life and livelihoods in the aftermath of Covid-19,” he added.Of the US $1 billion commitment, US $550 million will be financed by a credit from the International Development Association (IDA) - the World Bank’s concessionary lending arm and US $200 million will be a loan from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), with a final maturity of 18.5 years including a grace period of five years.The remaining US $250 million will be made available after June 30, 2020.“The World Bank said the support in collaboration with the government is aimed at integrating platforms so that people should not have to run around from one place to another to access a myriad of social schemes,” said Shrayana Bhattacharya, senior World Bank official.Last month, the bank had approved a plan to roll out US $160 billion in emergency aid over 15 months to help countries deal with the impact of the global coronavirus pandemic.The board of the Washington-based development lender announced the first set of fast-track crisis funding, with an initial $1.9 billion going to projects in 25 countries, and operations moving forward in another 40 nations.India was the largest beneficiary of the first wave of programmes with a facility for US $1 billion.Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a Rs 20 lakh crore or $266 billion support package for the economy on Tuesday to help mitigate the damage caused by the coronavirus and the lockdown it has triggered.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has been announcing the details on the package, equivalent to around 10% of India’s GDP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-bank-approves-1-billion-for-india-as-social-security-technology-fund-for-urban-poor-migrant-workers/story-hxziIkgLYwsDQkEY6U5agK.html
15-05-2020||India||Amit Shah, BJP leaders discuss Covid-19 at Nadda’s home, first meet since lockdown||Senior ministers and BJP leaders met at party chief JP Nadda’s residence on Thursday to discuss the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the country.Union home minister Amit Shah was among those present at the meeting which is understood to have discussed strategy to reach out to the poor and underprivileged sections in the country.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on Tuesday announced a comprehensive Rs 20 lakh crore special economic package for the country to become “self-reliant” and deal with Covid-19 crisis. Suggestions were also sought from the leaders on what more needs to be done to alleviate the distress during the trying times.Sources said this was the first such meeting held at the residence of Nadda with majority of union ministers present along with party leaders since lockdown started.The issues discussed at length in the meeting related to migrants including Centre’s financial help to run shelter homes and aid provided to states to keep migrants, problems faced by them and “reluctance” of some states to allow trains bringing migrants.The financial package to boost economy was also discussed and ministers and party leaders were asked to get their doubts clarified on the package details announced by Sitharaman.“Government has given money to keep shelter homes running. Also, they have permitted states to use SDRF funds for providing food and water,” a source said.Another source said that reluctance to allow trains bringing migrants too was discussed.”It is a federal structure and states have say in many matters. Many like West Bengal and Maharashtra are not too forthcoming with allowing trains. For them bringing migrants is a problem despite the aid provided by the Centre,” the source said.Another party leader said it was a meeting to give an insight into Centre’s schemes and implementation of the policies.Those present at the meeting also included Union ministers Ravi Shankar Prasad, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, MA Naqvi, Jitendra Singh, Prakash Javadekar, Thawar Chand Gehlot, Santosh Gangwar, Smriti Irani, Rattan Lal Kataria, Mansukh Mandavia besides party leaders GVL Narasimha Rao, Sudhanshu Trivedi, Meenakshi Lekhi, Gopal Krishna Agarwal and Shahnawaz Hussain.Sources said finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and commerce and industry and railways minister Piyush Goyal were present at the meeting.The government has announced a series of steps for the poor, migrants and other sections impacted by COVID-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-bjp-leaders-discuss-covid-19-at-jp-nadda-s-home-first-meet-since-lockdown/story-Zxj5OxXqHwRCGFELsv04XL.html
15-05-2020||India||Two soldiers dead in avalanche at Sikkim’s Lugnak La||Two soldiers, including a Lieutenant Colonel, died in an avalanche near Sikkim’s Lugnak La on Thursday, an army official said.The incident happened near Lugnak La, which is at a height of more than 5,000 metre, in north Sikkim when eighteen soldiers, including three officers, were struck by a snow slide. An army spokesman said: “A patrolling-cum-snow clearance party came under avalanche in North Sikkim on May 14. Inspite of the best efforts of the rescue team and local formation an officer Lieutenant Colonel Robert TA and Sapper Sapala Shanmukha Rao who were trapped under the ice lost their lives. All other members of the team are safe.”North Sikkim was the site of a confrontation between Indian and Chinese troops on May 9. The face-off was at Naku La. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured in the confrontation that involved around 150 soldiers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-soldiers-dead-in-avalanche-at-sikkim-s-lugnak-la/story-neYTXF55CsJy4rJEGdrrLL.html
15-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Tamil Nadu replaces Gujarat as second worst-hit state from Covid and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 state tally: Tamil Nadu replaces Gujarat as second worst-hit state, Maharashtra on topThe number of coronavirus cases in the country crossed the 80,000-mark on Friday. According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, the Covid-19 national tally stands at 81,970. There are 51,401 active coronavirus cases in the country, 27,919 patients have been cured or discharged while 2,649 people have died from the deadly contagion. Read moreOdisha official mocks women migrant workers as they request change in quarantine centreA Block Development Officer (BDO) in Odisha allegedly abused the migrant workers arriving in the state from Surat in Gujarat. Some women migrant labourers of Banarpal block in Angul district had reached Bhubaneswar by train from Surat on Wednesday morning. Read moreUttar Pradesh Covid-19 tally inches towards 4,000-mark after 147 new cases surfaceThe number of Covid-19 cases inches towards the 4,000-mark in Uttar Pradesh after 147 new cases surfaced on Thursday, Hindustan Times’s Hindi language publication Hindustan reported. Read moreBadrinath shrine’s portals opened for summers, devotees not allowed due to Covid-19The portals of Badrinath Temple were opened early on Friday in the presence of only 28 people, including the chief priest, due to the lockdown to stop the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), news agency ANI reported. Read moreUS health authorities issue alert over Covid-19 linked childhood illnessUS health authorities issued an alert Thursday over a rare but sometimes deadly autoimmune condition among children that is believed to be linked to Covid-19. Read moreWhy Maruti Suzuki is banking on demand for small cars to dictate profit marginsMaruti Suzuki India Ltd., the nation’s biggest carmaker, is likely to emerge from the coronavirus crisis stronger as the economic crunch will lead to buyers favoring cheaper hatchbacks and shifting to personal cars from shared transportation, analysts said. Read morePaatal Lok review: Black-hearted but brave, Anushka Sharma’s show is Amazon’s answer to Sacred GamesIn its attempt to produce a show on par with Netflix’s Sacred Games, Amazon Prime might have unwittingly outdone itself. Paatal Lok is a stunning achievement on virtually every level, and despite all its similarities to the path-breaking Netflix series. Read moreReturn of football will signal progression to new normal: LaLiga president Tebas | Exclusive“Our human compassion binds us the one to the other – not in pity or patronizingly, but as human beings who have learnt how to turn our common suffering into hope for the future.” These words of the great humanitarian Nelson Mandela are quite apt for the times that we live in today. Read moreFacebook starts rolling out Messenger Rooms globallyFacebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg last month announced the launch of Messenger Rooms, a 50-member video calling feature that would allow users to video call and share content with each other across other apps such as WhatsApp, Instagram and Portals without leaving those platforms. Read moreInternational Day of Families 2020: Best Wishes, images, quotes, Facebook messages & WhatsApp statusEvery year, May 15 is celebrated as the International Day of Families. The day was proclaimed by the UN General Assembly in 1993 with the aim to highlight the importance attached to families by the international community. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-45-of-rajasthan-s-covid-patients-in-21-40-age-group-and-all-the-latest-news/story-48eoTuGpPHmKuGe3LbQ6GP.html
15-05-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: Tamil Nadu replaces Gujarat as second worst-hit state, Maharashtra on top||The number of coronavirus cases in the country crossed the 80,000-mark on Friday. According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, the Covid-19 national tally stands at 81,970. There are 51,401 active coronavirus cases in the country, 27,919 patients have been cured or discharged while 2,649 people have died from the deadly contagion.Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra have breached the 27,000-mark while in Gujarat, the Covid-19 cases have crossed 9,500.Here’s the statewise breakup of the number of coronavirus cases, deaths, and recoveries.MaharashtraWith 27,524 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra continues to lead the state tally. The state has recorded 1,019 deaths so far while 6,059 patients have recovered.Tamil NaduThe southern state is second in terms of number of Covid-19 cases. Tamil Nadu has 9,674 coronavirus cases. It has seen 2,240 recoveries and 66 Covid-19 deaths.GujaratThe tally in the state, as per the Ministry of Health, stands at 9,591. While 586 people have died due to the coronavirus disease, Gujarat has seen 3,753 recoveries so far.DelhiAs many as 8,470 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. One hundred fifteen people have died from the infection while 3,045 have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 4,534 on Friday. The state has reported 125 fatalities, and 2,580 patients have recovered from the infection.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 4,426 positive cases of coronavirus. Two hundred thirty seven people have died from Covid-19 here while 2,171 have recovered.Uttar PradeshThe number of Covid-19 positive cases reaches 3,902 in Uttar Pradesh. While 2,072 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 88 have died from the infection here.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 2,205 positive Covid-19 patients and 1,192 cases of recovery. Forty eight people have died.West BengalThe number of infected cases in West Bengal reached 2,377 on Friday. There have been 215 deaths and 768 recoveries in the state.TelanganaThe number of Covid-19 positive cases reaches 1,414 in state so far. Nine hundred fifty people people have made a recovery from the virus while 34 people have died from Covid-19.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 983. Eleven people have died from the infection while 485 were cured.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 987 Covid-19 cases and 35 deaths. As many as 460 people have been cured and discharged.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 818 and 1,935 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 32 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen 11 deaths. Four hundred thirty nine people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 223 in Punjab.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported 560 coronavirus cases on Thursday. Kerala has witnessed four deaths due to Covid-19 while 491 people have successfully recovered.In Bihar, 994 people have tested positive for Covid-19, seven people have died while 411 patients have recovered. Odisha has 611 Covid-19 positive patients, 158 have recovered while three people have died. Jharkhand has 197 Covid-19 cases, three patients have died and 87 have recovered.Uttarakhand has 78 coronavirus patients, 50 patients have recovered from the infection, one patient has died. Himachal Pradesh has 74 cases, two patients have died and 39 have recovered. Assam has reported 87 Covid-19 cases, two people have died while 39 people have recovered.Chhattisgarh has recorded 60 cases of coronavirus and 56 people have recovered. In Chandigarh, 191 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 37 have recovered, three people have died. Andaman has recorded 33 coronavirus cases, all patients have recovered.Ladakh has 43 patients, 22 people have recovered. Goa reported 14 cases of Covid-19 disease, seven have recovered. Puducherry has reported 13 cases, nine have recovered and one person has died. Meghalaya has reported 13 cases and one death, 11 patients have recovered. One patient has died. Manipur had three coronavirus cases, and two of them have recovered. Tripura, meanwhile, has 156 cases, 29 patients have recovered.States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Dadra Nagar Haveli, Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram. All patients in Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram have recovered. Sikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case yet.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-tamil-nadu-replaces-gujarat-as-second-worst-hit-state-maharashtra-on-top/story-z231KtXCTPcILEq5LihlII.html
15-05-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally nears 82,000-mark with over 3,900 new cases in 24 hrs||The number of coronavirus disease cases (Covid-19) in India neared the 82,000-mark on Friday as 3,967 new patients and 100 deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours, Union health ministry data showed. There were 81,970 Covid-19 patients with 51,401 active cases and 27,919 recoveries, according to the health ministry’s dashboard. The number of deaths across the country stood at 2,649, it showed. More than 4.4 million people have contracted Covid-19 and 302,418 have died across the world, according to John Hopkins University’s tracker.In India, Maharastra has more than 27,000 Covid-19 patients, followed by Tamil Nadu at 9,647, Gujarat 9,591 and Delhi 8,470 cases of the coronavirus disease.The 14 states and Union territories that have not reported any Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours till Thursday are Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Goa, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Puducherry, and Telangana. Daman and Diu, Sikkim, Nagaland and Lakshadweep have not reported any Covid-19 case to date.Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said on Thursday that the number of Covid-19 tests carried out in India crossed two million on Thursday, doubling in 12 days.“Our target was to cross 2 million tests by the end of May, but we have done it two weeks ahead of our goal. With 504 laboratories, including 359 government laboratories and 145 private ones, doing Covid-19 tests, we have also crossed the daily capacity of 100,000 tests,” Harsh Vardhan said.At this level, India has tested around 1,540 people per million of its population, much higher than the 94.5 per million population it was testing in late March but still far lower than the tests per million in other countries.In the US, Spain, Russia, the UK, and Italy, the corresponding numbers are 31,080; 52,781; 42,403; 32,691; and 45,246 respectively.The doubling rate of infections has slowed to 13.9 days, from 11.1 days over the past 14 days, the minister said.“The fatality rate is 3.2%, and the recovery rate has further improved to 33.6%, up from 32.83% on Wednesday. There are 3% of active cases in ICUs, of which 0.39% are on ventilators and 2.7% on oxygen support,” he added.Covid-19 is diagnosed using Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) assay, which is the only diagnostic test for Covid-19 approved by the WHO.RT-PCR is used for the qualitative detection of genetic material called Ribonucleic Acid (RNA) from Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, and is the most accurate diagnostic test. Other tests such as rapid antibody and Elisa tests are surveillance tools that cannot test for current infection.The numbers come ahead of the scheduled end of the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown on May 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-nears-82-000-mark-with-3-900-new-cases-in-24-hrs/story-TmHNGDNiQHd0mkzR6Muq8O.html
15-05-2020||India||NCW talks focus on women-friendly labour legislations||An integrated portal for women migrant workers, the implementation of the workplace sexual harassment law, and the inclusion of women domestic helps are some of the key suggestions that were made during deliberations for a legal review of the Interstate Migrant Workmen Act, 1979.The National Commission for Women (NCW) has initiated the talks to make the law more women-friendly. Zonal consultations have begun – one each from the east and the south -- and three more are likely to take place. Later, the review findings will be submitted to the Union Ministry of Women and Child Development and the Union Ministry of Labour and Employment.It was suggested that the law’s name be revised and the wage gap must be bridged to restore gender parity.NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma said that in most cases women migrant workers do not get the same benefits as men. “Women, who migrate for work and are not accompanied by men, are more vulnerable. The role of the middleman or a contractor, who controls wages, must be reviewed. In almost all cases, the women get paid lesser wages,” Sharma said. A key suggestion that emerged during Thursday’s meeting was that employers of migrant labourers must implement the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. “Any employer with more than 10 workers must address sexual harassment at the workplace,” said a person, who attended the meeting.It was recommended that an integrated portal, where the details of these workers are readily available to government officials, need to be launched at the earliest.States also urged the Centre to ensure that employers maintain a list of the women and children employed and the facilities provided to them, and make the data available to their respective labour and women’s departments. It was suggested that the portal should include the details of domestic workers, including their individual traits.Andhra Pradesh’s State Women’s Commission director R Suez said that such a list would help in monitoring the welfare measures; the system of licences must exist in both home and destination state, where a migrant works. The role of labour inspectors, responsible for checking the parametres of workplaces, must also be taken into account, Sharma said.She cited that an NCW team found a nexus between contractors and builders in Uttar Pradesh’s (UP) Firozabad district in April. “There’re several such cases that we’ve come across. Direct payments to women migrants’ bank accounts should be made mandatory,” she added.Suez said that most states have pointed out that existing labour laws are seldom implemented. “Most of these laws are in the process of codification as The Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code 2019 is pending before Parliament. We’ve asked the Centre to urgently enact this code, if necessary by the promulgation of an ordinance,” she said. The move to review the legislation comes at a time when several states, including UP and Madhya Pradesh, have suspended several labour laws during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.In UP, 35 labour laws have been suspended, including the Factories Act 1948 and the Shops and Commercial Establishments Act 1961. Labour activist Sujata Gothaskar said that registration of workers is not followed in several states. “Most women workers didn’t even have job cards to apply for benefits offered by governments because of the lockdown restrictions,” she said.“Women workers must undergo an orientation programme, which will make them aware of their rights on wages, housing and other benefits,” she added.The Stranded Workers Action Network (SWAN) has compiled a report till April 26 on the impact of lockdown restrictions enforced to contain the Covid-19 outbreak, where it surveyed 16,863 stranded workers, of whom 4,024 were women. Around 72% of the workers said their ration exhausted in two days, four out of five workers did not have any access to government rations and 68% did not have access to cooked food, the study found.In another study, conducted by the Aajeevika Bureau of workers in Surat and Ahmedabad in Gujarat, found that women migrants were forced to pay a tenth of their monthly income on pay-and-use toilets. “The condition of women, especially during menstruation or pregnancy, is difficult. Access to water varies between 39 and 60 litres per capita daily,” the study said.Besides, most women could not apply for benefits such as conditional cash transfers, maternity, nutrition and immunisation benefits because they require domicile documents. NCW has found out that in Andhra Pradesh there are no special provisions for workers in situations like the prevailing lockdown restrictions and no data are available about how many migrant workers are there in the state.Soma KP of Mahila Kisan Adhikaar Manch (MAAKAM) said that the lack of recognition and control over wages of women labourers have led to a growing disparity in their earnings, as compared to men.“Women are the backbone of the agricultural labour force, but they are often seen as supplementary and that reflects in their poor wages, as compared to men. Women are the largest production force in the formal or unorganised sector, and a review of the Workmen’s Compensation Act, 1979, must be carried out at the earliest, especially in light of the pandemic. A review of the Labour Code is another long-standing demand of the informal sector,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncw-talks-focus-on-women-friendly-labour-legislations/story-gCVd0T2uw2eHum4x6l9NSJ.html
15-05-2020||India||Focus on migrants in govt package, India tops 2 million tests: Covid-19 news today||The government announced a Rs 3.16 lakh crore package on Thursday with focus on migrant workers, urban poor, street vendors and small farmers as part of its self-reliant India campaign. Meanwhile, Covid-19 tests in India crossed two million even as the doubling rate of the infection slowed to 13.9 days.Ration for migrants, farm relief in 2nd tranche of govt stimulusFree food grains and pulses for migrants, more jobs for tribals and those in rural areas, and credit to small enterprises, street vendors and small farmers — these were some of the highlights of the second phase of the government’s Rs 20 lakh crore Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-reliant India Scheme) announced on Thursday. Read moreIndia tops 2 million Covid-19 testsThe number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tests carried out in India crossed 2 million on Thursday, doubling in 12 days. “Our target was to cross 2 million tests by the end of May, but we have done it two weeks ahead of our goal. Read morePresident hits brakes on plan to buy new limousine, trims banquets to save moneyPresident Ram Nath Kovind will not ride the brand new Rs 10 crore limousine that was to be procured for his use at the next Republic Day parade. And the text time Rashtrapati Bhavan hosts a state banquet, the usually lavish spread will pruned to avoid any semblance of opulence. Read moreCovid-19: What you need to know todayIndia will overtake China in terms of the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases sometime Friday. China was at 82,929 cases on Thursday afternoon and India 78,810, according to worldometers.info. HT’s dashboard shows that India ended the day with 81,859 cases. Read moreIndian Covid-19 vaccine development to be backed by PM-CARESThe government has allocated R 100 crores from the PM-CARES (Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations) Fund to support the initiative to develop a vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read moreRegular train tickets scrapped till June 30; spl trains to runBookings made for regular trains before and during the lockdown for journeys till June 30 stand cancelled and affected passengers will receive full refund, Indian Railways said on Thursday. However, bookings for 15 pairs of special premium trains and those carrying migrant workers to their destinations during the lockdown will continue. Read more15 migrants on way home killed in 24 hrsFifteen migrant workers on their way back to their homes were killed in three accidents, one each in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar in the past 24 hours, police officials said. Read morePlea in SC against labour law dilutionA petition was filed in the Supreme Court on Thursday to challenge the decisions of Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh to freeze major labour laws, a move the state governments deemed necessary to revive the economy amid the challenges presented by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Read moreMP, UP and Guj end state monopoly on agri marketsThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh have ended decades-old monopolies of state-run agricultural produce market committees (APMCs), often blamed for exploitative trading, by permitting privatisation of seller-buyer platforms for farmers, in what analysts say is a far-reaching reform. Read moreCovid-19: 32k to return in Phase 2 of Vande BharatThe second phase of India’s massive programme to repatriate citizens stranded abroad because of the Covid-19 pandemic will bring home about 32,000 people, more than double the figure for the first phase, people familiar with developments said on Thursday. Read moreHealth ministry issues pool testing rulesMigrant workers and international passengers in institutional quarantine, people under isolation in hotels, and random samples of those living in green zone districts will be pool tested for prevalence of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to new Union health ministry guidelines released on Thursday. Read moreGlobal Covid-19 deaths top 300k amid mental health warningA mental illness crisis is looming as millions of people worldwide are surrounded by death and disease and forced into isolation, poverty and anxiety by the Covid-19 pandemic, United Nations health experts said on Thursday. Read moreCovid-19 may spread via speech: StudyMicrodroplets generated by speech can remain suspended in the air in an enclosed space for more than 10 minutes, a study published on Wednesday showed, underscoring their likely role in spreading Covid-19. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-on-migrants-in-govt-package-india-tops-2-million-tests-covid-19-news-today/story-iNKJEK3F9xADK5doukfKeI.html
15-05-2020||India||‘MSME package is in favour of large enterprises, not the smaller ones’: Manish Tewari||Congress parliamentarian and former Union minister Manish Tewari talks to Saubhadra Chatterji about the economic package announced by the government for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). It is a clear case of skewed priorities of the government. Today, India faces the single biggest humanitarian crisis after the Partition in 1947 and the displacement of people from East Pakistan. There are millions of migrant labourers left without jobs and shelter. But for the Centre it seems they don’t exist.Yes. And we would be closely watching the future announcements too. But the MSME package doesn’t overshadow the fact that the government’s top priority should have been those millions of workers. Why is the government silent? The second priority of the government should have been should have been to pump up the MGNREGS to provide work to these jobless workers.Do you know the problems farmers are facing today? Yes, the government has given Rs 2000 under PM Kisan to farmers but many of them are not getting the MSP for their produce. Farmers need to be paid their dues but it is not happening.We welcome the subordinate debt scheme of ₹20,000 crore and equity corpus fund of ₹10,000 crore. But if you see the MSME package, it is in favour of the large MSME enterprises not the smaller ones. Where is the fiscal stimulus? This is just a liquidity plus package.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/msme-package-is-in-favour-of-large-enterprises-not-the-smaller-ones-manish-tewari/story-NLb6DW6LqwYSjh5wvcCUEO.html
15-05-2020||India||India link in 18-point US plan to hold China accountable for Covid-19 ‘cover-up’||A top US senator has unveiled an 18-point plan, including enhancing military ties with India, to hold the Chinese government accountable for its “lies, deception, and cover-ups” that ultimately led to the global Covid-19 pandemic. The prominent suggestions are moving manufacturing chain from China and deepening military-strategic ties India, Vietnam and Taiwan.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Also Watch | Covid update: Automated test machine; USA vs China again; Germany €100 bn loss  “The Chinese government maliciously covered up and enabled a global pandemic that has caused misery for so many Americans. This is the same regime that locks up its own citizens in labour camps, steals America’s technology and jobs, and threatens the sovereignty of our allies,” said Senator Thom Tillis, presenting his detailed, 18-point plan on Thursday. “This is a major wake-up call to the United States and the rest of the free world. My plan of action will hold the Chinese government accountable for lying about COVID-19; sanctioning the Chinese government while protecting America’s economy, public health, and national security,” he said.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe plan seeking to create a Pacific Deterrence Initiative and immediately approve the military’s request for USD 20 billion in funding. It also calls for deepening military ties with regional allies and expand equipment sales to India, Taiwan and Vietnam.Also Watch l India to overtake China in covid cases today and why we still lag in testing  Encourage Japan to rebuild its military and offer Japan and South Korea sales of offensive military equipment, it said. “Move manufacturing back to the US from China and gradually eliminate our supply chain dependency on China. Stop China from stealing our technology and provide incentives to American companies to regain our technological advantage. Strengthen cybersecurity against Chinese hacks and sabotage,” the plan stated. “Prevent American taxpayer money from being used by the Chinese government to pay off their debt. Implement the US ban on (Chinese technology company) Huawei and coordinate with our allies to implement similar bans,” it added. The plan seeks restitution from the Chinese government and imposition of sanctions for lying about the virus. It further said China should be sanctioned for their atrocious human rights record. Senator Tillis’ plan urges the Trump Administration to formally request the International Olympic Committee to withdraw the 2022 Winter Olympics from Beijing. “Stop China’s propaganda campaign inside the United States. Treat Chinese government-run media outlets as the propaganda proxies that they are,” the plan stated.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage  Urging the government to investigate the Chinese government’s cover-up of the spread of Covid-19, the plan also seeks to investigate America’s reliance on China’s supply chains and threats to public safety and national security. “Ensure the independence of the WHO through investigations and reform. Expose and counter China’s predatory debt-trap diplomacy targeting developing countries. Increase intelligence sharing on potential pandemics and lead the creation of a watchdog organization to monitor foreign governments’ handling of deadly viruses,” Tillis said in his suggestions. The coronavirus, which first emerged in China’s Wuhan city in December last, has killed over 3,00,000 people with 4.3 million confirmed cases across the world. More than a quarter of all confirmed Covid-19 cases are from the US. There has been increasing pressure on the President Trump, in the last several weeks, to take action against China as lawmakers and opinion-makers feel that the Covid-19 spread across the world from Wuhan because of Chinese inaction.Also read| ‘Billions of dollars’: Trump withdraws US pension fund from China investments Meanwhile, Senator John Barrasso, in a speech on the Senate floor on Thursday, highlighted the need to update the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) legislation that was put on hold by the coronavirus pandemic. “The virus could have been contained had it not been for the Chinese Government’s unscrupulous cover-up. China knew the risk months before the rest of the world; yet Chinese communist leaders destroyed key evidence, they under-reported the number of coronavirus cases, and they misled the world about its deadly, rapid spread,” he said. Asserting that the virus should have been contained in Wuhan, he said tens and tens of thousands of Americans and hundreds of thousands of people worldwide have died as a result of China’s failure. Barrasso said the US should encourage its companies to create American and western supply chains. “That way our frontline workers have what they need in the time of crisis,” he said.Also read| ‘Not happy right now’: Trump rules out US renegotiating trade deal with China “Not again, not ever will we be exclusively sourced for critical drugs from China. We should diversify supply and bring home as much of our supply chain as possible,” he added. Congressman Troy Balderson introduced bicameral legislation with Congressman Doug Collins and Senator Lindsey Graham that will hold China accountable for deceptive actions taken by its leaders that led to the spread and subsequent global pandemic. The Covid-19 Accountability Act authorises President Donald Trump to impose sanctions on China if it fails to cooperate with a full investigation led by the US or its allies into the events that lead to the Covid-19 outbreak. “The number of Ohioan lives needlessly claimed by this pandemic could have been significantly reduced had China taken appropriate measures to control the virus’ spread and disclose its severity,” said Balderson. “The United States can’t look the other way when China so recklessly compromised worldwide health and the global economy. China and its Communist Party leadership must be held accountable,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-link-in-18-point-us-plan-to-hold-china-accountable-for-covid-19-cover-up/story-7QwYgvYwru1XuXdWWVVbtK.html
15-05-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh Covid-19 tally inches towards 4,000-mark after 147 new cases surface||The number of Covid-19 cases inches towards the 4,000-mark in Uttar Pradesh after 147 new cases surfaced on Thursday, Hindustan Times’s Hindi language publication Hindustan reported. The number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state has now reached 3,902.Out of these new cases, 49 were reported in Ghaziabad, Meerut and Moradabad, Hindustan said.While 2072 people have been cured of the disease, 1,742 are still in hospitals across the state. Two fresh deaths were reported from Meerut and Pratapgarh, raising the toll to 88 in the state.Of the total fatalities, Agra has reported the maximum number of deaths in the state at 24. It is followed by 15 from Meerut, nine from Moradabad, six from Kanpur Nagar and four each from Firozabad and Mathura.Three deaths each have been reported from Aligarh and Gautam Buddh Nagar, two each from Ghaziabad and Jhansi and one each from Pratapgarh, Sant Kabir Nagar, Hapur, Lalitpur, Allahabad, Etah, Mainpuri, Bijnore, Kanpur Dehat, Amroha, Bareilly, Basti, Bulandshahr, Lucknow, Varanasi and Shravasti.Earlier, Principal Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad told reporters that the testing capacity in Uttar Pradesh has been increased. As many as 5,833 Covid-19 tests were conducted across the state on Wednesday, which is a record, he said.“We are emphasising on surveillance and over three crore people have been surveyed by 73,131 teams in UP. Those having symptoms (of Covid-19) have been given required treatment,” Prasad said.He also asked the village and mohalla surveillance committees to keep an eye on the migrant labourers coming to the states from other parts of the country. He has also asked people to use face mask outside their home and follow social distancing norms.The state authorities have asked people to show sympathy to those affected by the coronavirus disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-covid-19-tally-inches-towards-4-000-mark-after-147-new-cases-surface/story-rCrryjULJaWMrwnCxRj0NN.html
15-05-2020||India||45% of Rajasthan’s coronavirus patients in 21-40 age group: Govt||As much as 45% of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients in Rajasthan belong to the 21-40 years age group and the majority are men, the state’s health department data shows.According to the data, 62.7% of patients are men and 37.3% are women out of the total Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan.Of the 4,418 Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan, “21% patients belong to 0-20 year age group; 45.5% are from 21-40 years age; 24.1% are from 41-50 age group, and 9.1% have crossed 60 years”, the department said. Rajasthan on Thursday reported 206 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) till 9pm, as the desert state’s tally rose to 4,534, including 267 positive cases of migrants. Of the 206 new cases, 59 were from Udaipur, 36 from Jodhpur, 20 and 22 cases respectively from Jaipur and Jalore. Whereas Nagaur recorded 17 cases, eight each in Barmer and Sirohi, seven each in Sikar and Ajmer, five each in Pali and Jhunjhunu, four each in Rajsamand and Churu and one each in Kota, Alwar and Dungarpur.Among the cases in migrant workers, the maximum at 40 was from Jalore, followed by Pali at 34, Rajsamand at 28, Sirohi at 22, Ajmer at 19, Churu at 15, Nagaur at 14 and 10 each from Dungarpur, Jhunjhnu, Sikar and Udaipur.Rajasthan’s Covid-19 related death toll stands at 125, including 63 fatalities in the state capital of Jaipur. Till date, 2,397 people have been discharged and there are 1,771 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/45-of-rajasthan-s-coronavirus-patients-in-21-40-age-group-govt/story-VP5M2PWcjtmpBJgAnsJ07M.html
15-05-2020||India||‘Basic reading of Constitution must for Guv applicant’: TMC MP’s dig at Dhankhar||Taking a dig at West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, TMC MP Mahua Moitra on Thursday said in a situation where the post of governor falls vacant, a person applying for it must have the basic reading of the Constitution. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) government in West Bengal and the Raj Bhawan have been engaged in a bitter war of words for the last few months over state’s Covid-19 response and its various policies. “Situation Vacant- 1 post of Governor for State of WB. Qualifications required- 1. BASIC reading of Constitution 2. Ability to respect dignity of office & not shoot mouth off indiscriminately 3. Modicum of self respect in daily life w/o fawning over political masters shamelessly,” Moitra tweeted. There was no immediate reaction from the Raj Bhawan or the governor regarding the tweet. The West Bengal BJP unit, however, slammed the TMC for repeatedly disrespecting the post of governor and showing disregard for constitutional norms. “Just because the governor is saying legitimate things, the TMC is unable to tolerate and has been repeatedly insulting him and trying to demean his post. We condemn such statements against the post of the office of governor,” West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said.Over the past two months, the state government and the Raj Bhawan have been engaged in a war of words over state’s preparedness in handling the Covid-19 situation.The face-off escalated earlier this month, with Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee accusing Dhankhar of repeatedly interfering in the functioning of the state administration, and the governor contending that the state cannot be governed as a personal fiefdom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/basic-reading-of-constitution-must-for-guv-applicant-tmc-mp-s-dig-at-dhankhar/story-nisR9rLdvuR6uw94PMeHjO.html
15-05-2020||India||Odisha official mocks women migrant workers as they request change in quarantine centre||A Block Development Officer (BDO) in Odisha allegedly abused the migrant workers arriving in the state from Surat in Gujarat.Some women migrant labourers of Banarpal block in Angul district had reached Bhubaneswar by train from Surat on Wednesday morning. They were taken to a government quarantine centre at Barapada Primary School in Chhendipada block of the district in the afternoon.As the women migrant workers belonged to Banarpal block, they requested Chhendipada BDO Sunil Kumar Kerketa over phone to make arrangements for their stay at a quarantine centre in their own block. But Kerketa told them to either stay put there or leave for their village on foot.“I did not bring you to the quarantine centre. If you want to stay in the centre you can, or you can walk to your home,” the BDO is heard saying in the audio clip that has now gone viral.This comes a day after another BDO in Odisha was seen misbehaving and insulting a group of migrant workers who had returned from Gujarat.Baliapal BDO Chhabirani Sahoo hurled abuses at the migrant workers and even flaunted her position when the migrant workers asked for water. A video of the incident was widely shared on social media.Odisha’s Panchayati Raj Minister Pratap Jena said on Thursday that he has ordered an inquiry into Sahoos’s alleged misbehaviour towards the migrant workers. Jena said he has asked the Balasore district collector to probe the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-official-mocks-women-migrant-workers-as-they-request-change-in-quarantine-centre/story-zOdqWtZdGS6f5OQdWPdrKK.html
15-05-2020||India||3 dead, 2 detained after failed theft attempt in Karnataka’s Kolar Gold Fields||Three men fell to their death while trying to look for gold at the Kolar Gold Fields (KGF) in Karnataka’s Kolar district, police said on Thursday.Ramdas, a sub-inspector of Marikuppam police station, said two others have been detained.Ramdas said five men from the Bishop Doddi locality of Andersonpet—Padiyappa, Joseph, Kanda, Victor and Karthik—had gone to an abandoned shaft to steal gold ore on Wednesday night. But since it was dark and some of the planks near the shaft had become weak due to lack of maintenance and exposure to weather, Joseph, Kanda and Padiyappa plunged to their death after falling around 1,000 feet. Ramdas said they might have become weak due to inhalation also of some of the poisonous gases which could have accumulated in these abandoned shafts.Victor and Karthik managed to escape and alerted some of the nearby residents who in turn informed the police. Police along with the fire department recovered the bodies of Joseph and Kanda on Thursday while that of Santhosh alias Padiyappa is yet to be found. Both the bodies have been sent to the district government hospital for post-mortem examination. Victor and Karthik have been detained for further investigation.Once one of India’s richest gold mines, all mining activity has been abandoned in KGF since 2001 due to the low gold content which meant the price of extracting it from the ground was not profitable.However, every now and then when gold prices shoot up, some thieves try to extract some of the ore which they believe contains “trace gold.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-dead-2-detained-after-failed-theft-attempt-in-karnataka-s-kolar-gold-fields/story-VFsQeFotbozzWtj0sLTP5H.html
15-05-2020||India||Badrinath shrine’s portals opened for summers, devotees not allowed due to Covid-19||The portals of Badrinath Temple were opened early on Friday in the presence of only 28 people, including the chief priest, due to the lockdown to stop the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), news agency ANI reported.The doors of the famous shrine in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district, which was decorated with strings of marigold flowers, was opened at 4:30am after a long winter break.“Devotees will not be allowed entry into the temple during that time. The decision has been taken in view of the guidelines issued by the Centre amid Covid-19 pandemic,” Anil Chanyal, Joshimath’s sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), had said in a statement earlier.Religious ceremonies were also held on Wednesday at the Narsingh temple in Joshimath ahead of the scheduled date for the opening of the portals of the Badrinath temple dedicated to Lord Vishnu.Around 10,000 pilgrims had visited the shrine last year on the first day of its opening as per an estimated figure.Manujendra Shah, the king of the Tehri royal family who is considered the ‘Bolanda Badri’ or talking Lord Badri, had on April 20 changed the date of opening of the portals of Badrinath shrine as the chief priest was under the quarantine after returning from Kerala. This is the first time in history that the dates for the opening of portals of the shrines have been changed.The portals of Kedarnath temple were also opened on April 29 after a six-month-long winter break. Pilgrims were prohibited from visiting the shrine because of the lockdown.One of the most visited pilgrimage centres of India, Badrinath is one of the Char Dhams or the four main pilgrimage centres of the Hindus located in Garhwal hills. The Badrinath Temple is along the banks of the Alaknanda River in Chamoli district at a height of over 10,000 feet.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/badrinath-shrine-s-portals-opened-for-summers-devotees-not-allowed-due-to-covid-19/story-HUjq85ARA7x5jbelsFWgxK.html
15-05-2020||India||Tonk gang rape: Chargesheet filed in 10 days||The Tonk district police filed chargesheet in the Pachewar gang rape case on Thursday, within 10 days of registration of the first investigation report (FIR), officials said.Tonk Superintendent of Police (SP) Adarsh Siddhu said that the FIR in the case was registered on May 6 and all the four accused were detained on the same day. On May 11, the statements of the victim were recorded in the court and the chargesheet was presented in the court on Thursday.“The charges against the accused were found to be true under sections 363 (kidnapping), 366 (inducing girl for illicit inter course), 376DA (gang rape) of India Penal Code and Section 5 (kidnapping) and Section 6 (gang rape of child) under POCSO Act,” said Siddhu.The SP added that the case has been taken in the case officer scheme to ensure maximum punishment.A minor in Tonk district was allegedly gang raped by four persons on May 5 when she had went to relieve herself in open, the police said.According to complaint given by the family members of the 16-year-old, she was kidnapped by four people around 8 pm who have been named in the FIR. They allegedly took her to isolated place in Islampur and took turns to rape her. The men later dropped her near a pond in Bacheda village in an unconscious condition.The girl gradually regained consciousness and managed to reach her home. She shared the ordeal with her parents after which they went to the police station to register an FIR.The accused were identified as Nesar Khan (22), Salman alias Khobra (20) and Zakir alias Raju Rada (22). The fourth accused is a minor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tonk-gang-rape-chargesheet-filed-in-10-days/story-dR8kdLtrdbMdlDxzYjjP2N.html
15-05-2020||India||7 special trains from Karnataka ferry over 10,000 migrant workers home||Seven South Western Railway (SWR) zone special trains ferried 10,063 migrant workers back home to six Indian states amid Covid-19 pandemic, an official said on Thursday.“The first Shramik Special train from Hubballi left at 12.20 pm with 1,361 passengers bound for Jodhpur,” said a SWR zone official.Thursday’s second special train with 1,550 migrants departed Chikka Bannavara station from the outskirts of Bengaluru at 3.30 pm to Muzaffarpur in Bihar.Two trains, third and fourth special ones on Thursday, left Chikka Bannavara station for Gorakhpur with 1,520 and 1440 migrants at 4.50 p.m. and 6.35 p.m. respectively.Similarly, Thursday’s fifth special train departed Malur station for Katihar in Bihar at 6.15 pm with 1,462 migrants.Likewise, the sixth train from Chikka Bannavara station to Jiribam in Manipur departed at 7.28 pm with 1,450 passengers at 8.30 pm.Seventh special train from Chikka Bannavara to Udhampur in Jammu and Kashmir left at 10.39 pm with 1,280 migrants.SWR is yet to share the departure details of eighth special train on Thursday, scheduled to leave for Jasidih in Jharkhand from Malur.The special trains are being organised following the Union ministry of home affairs granting permission for the movement of stranded migrant labourers, workers, students, tourists and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-trains-from-k-taka-ferry-more-than-10k-migrants-home/story-lJs7l43wOsa0kZvo9HJaQJ.html
15-05-2020||India||19 passengers sent back to Delhi after they protest quarantine in Bengaluru||Nineteen passengers who had arrived at the Bengaluru railway station on Thursday from New Delhi on a passenger train were sent back to the national capital after they created a ruckus protesting institutional quarantine.“Delhi-KSR Bengaluru train that arrived Bengaluru on Thursday morning had 543 passengers, as confirmed from Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). Out of these 543 persons, about 20 were on transit to other states and left by road to Kerala and Tamil Nadu” the Indian Railways said in a statement.The special train from New Delhi to Bengaluru, (Train No. 02492) had arrived on Thursday morning at the KSR Bengaluru City railway station.“A section of passengers ranging about 140 were reluctant for institutionalised quarantine and were protesting against the same. After persuasion and discussion by senior officers of State Government, Police and Railways, majority of them have proceeded to said quarantine,” it said.The Railways said “19 of them preferred to go back to Delhi which was facilitated by Railways at very short notice by attaching extra coach in a train to Delhi on Thursday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/19-passengers-sent-back-to-delhi-after-they-protest-quarantine-in-bengaluru/story-3ArlgcOdCqwfOQXa2CgBiI.html
15-05-2020||India||Migrants ‘waiting’ for food, transport pelt stones at cops on MP-Maharashtra border||Migrants from Maharashtra headed towards Uttar Pradesh and Bihar have become a law and order and coronavirus issue for the Madhya Pradesh government.Thousands of migrant workers went on a rampage after traffic was jammed on the National Highway 3 on Thursday. They pelted stones at the police after waiting for nine hours for food.Violence erupted in Sendhwa on Madhya Pradesh-Maharashtra border as the promised arrangement for food and transportation for them did not materialise.Cellphone videos from the spot showed hundreds of people, screaming and running on the shoulder beside the highway.“People here are travelling with month-old babies. The Maharashtra government sent us here, but our own government is holding us up. We have been here since last night, hungry and thirsty,” said Sunit Mishra, who works in Pune. The hapless people are stranded in a jungle with no security. “No one cares about us,” said Mishra who wants to go to Satna.District Collector Amit Tomar said, “The stone-pelting took place as some migrants felt after the buses left, there would not be any more vehicles for those left behind, but we reassured them and calmed them down.”The migrants were sent to transit points in different districts in 135 buses from the border, he said.“The administration is providing facilities like food, water, shelter to labourers who are coming in their own vehicles or through other conveyances and providing facility of buses to others who are entering Madhya Pradesh walking from Maharashtra’s border,” said Tomar. The restive migrants had resorted to violence last week too. On May 3 over a thousand workers staged a protest in Barwani after the district was sealed. More than 300 people were booked for last week’s violence. The cases were not pursued though.Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has appealed to the labourers to have patience, saying they will be transported free of cost by buses after medical checkups and a meal.The Madhya Pradesh government, he said, will ensure that every labourer reaches home. ItA is not just about transporting the labourers to their destinations. It is also about ensuring that the other states allow them to cross into home states. Both Uttar Pradesh and Bihar take a long time to let the people in. say the state government officials.Sendhwa is a crucial stop for the migrant labourers from Maharashtra taking the road to go to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Every day, thousands of migrants pour into town, from where they take buses and trucks for the onward journey.The maximum pressure is at Bijasan Ghat on the border of Sendhwa, where 5,000 to 6,000 labourers reach every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrants-waiting-for-food-transport-pelt-stones-at-cops-on-mp-maharashtra-border/story-lFAqlJCfXVHd5idAZOLEVP.html
15-05-2020||India||Army’s only cavalry unit to replace horses with tanks||One of the world’s last remaining horse-mounted cavalry regiments may be riding into the sunset. The Indian Army’s only mounted cavalry regiment is set to say goodbye to its horses, with the government approving a proposal to equip the 61st Cavalry with tanks, two senior officers said on condition of anonymity.The famous 61st Cavalry is being converted into a regular armoured regiment on the basis of a recommendation made by the Lieutenant General DB Shekatkar (retd) committee in a report on sharpening the army’s combat edge and trimming its revenue expenditure, said one of the officers cited above. The Jaipur-based 61st Cavalry is likely to be equipped with T-72 tanks, said the second officer cited above. “Three independent squadrons of other regiments are being amalgamated under the headquarters of the 61st Cavalry to form the new tank unit,” the officer added.The regiment’s 300-odd horses (200 in Jaipur and around 100 with a squadron of 61st Cavalry in Delhi) will become part of a new equestrian node, he said.Lieutenant General Shekatkar, who headed the 11-member expert committee named after him, said the recommendation to mechanise the 61st Cavalry was taken after scrutinising the track record of the unit.“It has not taken part in any operation during the last 25 years. Nowhere in the world is playing polo or taking part in equestrian sports the main occupation of any army unit. It’s in the army’s best interests that it (the unit) operates tanks instead of horses,” Shekatkar said. He said the President’s Bodyguard, also a mounted unit, has the well-defined role of performing ceremonial duties for the country’s President. The decision to mechanise the mounted regiment, steeped in tradition and sporting history, has evoked mixed reactions. While some in the army argue that the regiment’s military heritage should have been preserved, others counter that it makes more sense to assign the 61st Cavalry an operational role rather than limiting it to ceremonial functions and sporting events.“The 61st Cavalry has a rich and storied history that should have been preserved. There can be no 61st Cavalry without horses. It’s heartbreaking to see the unit being disbanded,” said an armoured corps officer who asked not to be named. Another officer, however, said mechanisation of the regiment was the way forward and mounted units were a thing of the past.The 61st Cavalry was raised in Jaipur in October 1953 by putting together mounted elements of cavalry regiments of the erstwhile princely states of India.Rich in sporting history, the regiment accounts for one Padma Shri, 10 Arjuna Awards, 11 Asian Games medals and a raft of representations at the Polo World Cup and international equestrian competitions. It has been a part of the annual Republic Day parade for several decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-s-only-cavalry-unit-to-replace-horses-with-tanks/story-ruLeP4r4t3zBLnXFFxLhPP.html
15-05-2020||India||Centre, West Bengal spar over repatriation flights under Vande Bharat Mission||The Central and West Bengal governments were involved in another spat on repatriation of residents on Thursday, with the external affairs ministry saying the state hadn’t confirmed if it has arranged quarantine facilities to receive people who want to return from abroad.External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava tweeted that flights to repatriate residents of West Bengal from abroad as part of Vande Bharat Mission could be arranged if the state government confirmed that it has organised quarantine facilities for them.Srivastava was responding to a tweet from West Bengal’s higher education minister Partha Chatterjee, who posted a schedule of the flights being organised during the second phase of Vande Bharat Mission and questioned why there were no flights to the state.The government is arranging 149 flights from more than 30 countries in the second phase of the massive repatriation programme to bring back some 32,000 people to more than a dozen states. West Bengal isn’t among the states.“Is the MEA asking us to believe that there are enough people to come from Georgia to Gujarat but none want to come to Kolkata? Also, there are enough people to come back to Bihar from Kyrgyzstan but not enough to bring back to Bengal?? Stop this injustice !!!” Chatterjee tweeted.Is the MEA asking us to believe that there are enough people to come from Georgia to Gujrat but none want to come to Kolkata ?Also, there are enough people to come back to Bihar from Kyrgyzstan but not enough to bring back to Bengal?? Stop this injustice !!!#MithyebadiBJP pic.twitter.com/NbpEFWw646Srivastava responded by tweeting: “MEA does not discriminate between states. GOI’s Vande Bharat Mission is for all stranded Indians, including those from West Bengal. Over 3700 of them have registered for repatriation from different parts of the world.”He added in another tweet, “Will gladly facilitate flights to Kolkata if state government will confirm arrangements to receive and quarantine. Will also help in return of WB residents through land borders with neighbours. We hope to receive an early response on the matter.” MEA does not discriminate between states. GOI’s Vande Bharat Mission is for all stranded Indians, including those from West Bengal. Over 3700 of them have registered for repatriation from different parts of the world. (1/2)@MoCA_GoI @HomeSecretaryWB https://t.co/CEzU0rCAnMThere was no immediate response from West Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress party or its leaders.In the past few days, the Central and West Bengal governments have sparred over the arrangement of special trains to bring back migrant workers of the state from other parts of the country. The Union home ministry contended it wasn’t getting support from the West Bengal government to help the migrant workers return home, and the allegation was dismissed by Trinamool Congress leaders.An Inter-Ministerial Central Team (IMCT), which visited West Bengal to assess the Covid-19 situation, said there were discrepancies in the reporting of cases in the state. In its final report submitted to the West Bengal government, IMCT also raised questions about the state’s contention that it had surveyed 50 lakh people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-west-bengal-spar-over-repatriation-flights-under-vande-bharat-mission/story-ddC5AlM6LbpVqSjVd1Y3OJ.html
15-05-2020||India||Health ministry issues pool testing rules||Migrant workers and international passengers in institutional quarantine, people under isolation in hotels, and random samples of those living in green zone districts will be pool tested for prevalence of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to new Union health ministry guidelines released on Thursday.A pool of 25 samples from the target population will be tested using the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method to detect the presence of Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. In pool testing, throat or nasal swabs from two to five people are mixed and tested as a single unit. All individual samples in a negative pool are deemed as having tested negative; if a pooled sample tests positive, each person in the pool is tested individually to find out who is infected.“Guideline for RT-PCR based pooled sampling for migrants/returnees from abroad/green zones… A decision has been taken to use one time RT-PCR based pooled sampling for surveillance purposes for migrant workers in institutional quarantine facilities, international passengers in institutional quarantine facilities/hotels ear-marked for quarantine and for surveillance purposes in green zones…” reads a health ministry directive.The green zone districts from where samples will be collected are those from where no case has been reported to date, or districts which had reported cases earlier but have been clean for the past 21 days or more.“It is one time only testing to check whether there is infection prevalent in a particular group or not. If a pool sample returns positive, then all the samples will be individually tested for the presence of virus,” said a health ministry official, who did not wish to be identified.The responsibility of conducting the test will lie on respective state governments.As per the protocol, a cohort of 25 people will be identified, and throat or nasal swabs will be collected by trained laboratory personnel using appropriate protective gear. The sample will be packed in triple layer packaging, and transported to the identified laboratory under cold-chain as per the guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research for Covid-19 sample collection and testing.“The samples will be aliquoted and thereafter pooled samples from 25 specimens shall be tested in the laboratory by RT-PCR method. The report will be conveyed to the quarantine/concerned facility within 24 hours. If any of the pooled samples tests positive, individual samples would be tested from the aliquoted samples preserved in the laboratory,” say the health ministry guidelines.ICMR issued an advisory on the feasibility of pool testing of samples using RT-PCR last month. It was done after a feasibility study was conducted at ICMR’s Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) at King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Lucknow.“The samples are pool tested for the purpose of surveillance. It is not advisable for diagnosis in areas where case load or its suspicion is high because if every other pooled sample tests positive, then you will end up individually testing a large number of samples, which will defeat the purpose,” Dr Amita Jain, head, ICMR-VRDL, KGMU, had earlier said about pool testing as she headed the feasibility study.Dr Ekta Gupta, senior virologist at Delhi government-run Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, which is one of the ICMR-approved labs for Covid-19 testing, said, “In areas where the suspicion of finding a positive case is low, it helps to go for pooled testing as it will save a lot of precious resources. RT-PCR is an expensive test, and you need a proper laboratory setting to conduct the test. Pooling is feasible and if a batch comes positive, you can always go back and test individual samples. You will still end up saving a lot.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-issues-pool-testing-rules/story-EyaEm9fHUe0AjzRPbh1aFI.html
15-05-2020||India||Mamata approves 105 trains for 1 month for migrants; Piyush Goyal says state needs 105 daily||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who has been facing flak from the opposition for going slow on bringing back migrant workers, on Thursday announced that the state had arranged for 105 trains to bring these workers home over the next one month, following which railway minister Puyish Goyal said the state actually needed 105 trains every day. “I am pleased to announce that we have arranged 105 additional special trains,” CM Banerjee announced on Thursday and shared on social media details of the schedule.In the evening, Goyal responded to Banerjee’s tweet and wrote, “I feel sad that while there is a need for 105 trains per day to bring back migrants to WB, the state is accepting only 105 trains over 30 days. I once again hope for the sake of Bengal’s brothers and sisters in different parts of the country, that WB will accept them back with open arms.” In another reply to CM Banerjee’s tweet, the railway minister said, “Many migrants want to return to WB and if the state does not accept them then we may find more cases of migrants and even children walking for hundreds of km and resorting to other dangerous means. WB should speed up setting up of adequate arrangements to receive their own migrants.”This controversy took place when migrants from Bengal stranded in other states started taking the long road back home. On Thursday, Tamil Nadu-based writer and social activist Nityanand Jayaraman posted on Twitter a short video of a batch of migrant workers from Bengal starting for their home on bicycles, embarking on a nearly 1,700 km journey.“#MigrantsOnTheRoad Chennai-Kolkata Highway. This batch of 20 left Chennai this morning for Murshidabad, WB. 1700 km. No help from govts. Public public partnership only. Courtesy Lorry drivers, dhaba balas, people of India,” Jayaraman wrote on Twitter.In Bengal, right to food activist Anuradha Talwar, who has been working with stranded migrant workers in different states over the past few weeks, said that migrants from Bengal were initially against taking the walking or cycling route for home and preferred to wait but are of late running out of patience.“We are in touch with these workers stranded in other states and most of those from Bengal were in favour of waiting for train services to resume. Too few from Bengal actually took the road to walk or to cycle hundreds of km. But they are running out of patience due to lack of clarity over the state government’s initiatives and have recently started making their own arrangements,” said Talwar.The number of workers from Bengal who migrate to other states is estimated at around 12 lakh. They mostly go to India’s southern states of Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka and the western states of Maharashtra and Gujarat. They mostly work in construction, zari work, restaurants, sugar mills, jewellery and garment sector.Bengal has so far seen fewer numbers of people coming back from distant states on their own and they were mostly stray cases. People returned in groups were mostly from the neighbouring states of Jharkhand and Odisha. Among the migrant labourers who came back from several hundred kilometers away was a group of construction workers from Chhattisgarh who walked and hitchhiked to reach Bengal, a middle-aged man from Tamil Nadu and a septuagenarian from Bihar who cycled the distance.“I exchanged my mobile phone with a security guard at the construction site where I worked. I took his bicycle and a few hundred rupees. Every day I peddled throughout the day and sometimes at night too. I took rest only when I could not take the pain anymore,” said Atiul Shah, a 23-year-old resident of South 24 Parganas district in Bengal, who came back from Salem in Tamil Nadu on April 29. As of Thursday, 7 trains have brought back stranded migrant workers and pilgrims and several buses brought back students stranded in Kota, Rajasthan.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, however, blamed other states for the plight of the migrant workers. “No one stranded in our state is going mad to go back because we have kept them well and truly treated them as our guests. But those from here got stranded in other states did not receive this gesture. We appeal to those who are returning not to go back to those states that did not take care of them amidst this crisis. We’ll find some arrangements for them,” CM Banerjee said.The CM also said that more than one lakh people have already returned to the state. This includes migrant labourers, tourists, patients and students. “Out of this the maximum - around 90,000 - came on buses, while some arranged their own vehicles to reach the state borders. Some came on foot,” said Banerjee. Opposition parties, however, accused Banerjee of being apathetic towards the migrants. “The railway minister is right. He personally told me that the railways were ready to allot 100 trains for Bengal every day,” said Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Congress’ leader in the Lok Sabha.Bharatiya Janata Party state unit president Dilip Ghosh said the same. “We have given the government a list of more than 4 lakh migrant workers stranded in different states,” Ghosh said.Some workers who were fortunate to get trains for their journey back home too were unhappy with the arrangements by the railways. On Thursday, a section of the passengers coming from Bengaluru on a New Jalpaiguri-bound Shramik Special train alleged that they faced acute shortage of drinking water, food and no social distancing on the train. More than 50 passengers got down at Durgapur where the train stopped briefly to change engines and staged a protest.Later, the railway authorities had to coordinate with the state government to arrange buses for the passengers. The train was sanitized and drinking water was supplied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-approves-105-trains-for-1-month-for-migrants-piyush-goyal-says-state-needs-105-daily/story-hNp9QGygAS1qDrsuT35RvN.html
15-05-2020||India||‘Govt left migrants to mercy of God’: Congress||The Congress on Thursday criticised the government for the second tranche of its stimulus package to boost the Covid-19 hit economy, saying it had provided just Rs 3500 crore for the millions of migrant workers walking thousands of kilometres to reach their homes.Congress spokesperson Manish Tewari said the entire press conference of finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman was a “classic display of arrogance, ignorance and insensitivity” and claimed that except for Rs 1500 crore interest subvention for Shishu Mudra loans and Rs 3500 crore for migrant workers, there was nothing else out of the Rs 20 lakh crore package.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“For the millions of migrants that you claim are the builders of this nation, all you have for them is Rs 3500 crore in terms of atta and chana. It is pathetic. They are left to the mercy of God. This is your empathy for the poor of this country. That’s why we say you are a suit boot ki sarkaar,” he told reporters through a video conference.“This is the entire quantum of the package that the BJP ostensibly put together for the greatest humanitarian tragedy since the 1947 Partition exodus and the East Pakistan refugee crisis,” Tewari added.He said the government does not even have the figures of how many people were housed in relief camps. The government said there are 8 crore migrants but the reality is that 11 crore migrants are in the country, as per the 2011 census, and the numbers have increased since then, he added.“We expected the finance minister to specify what the government is doing to ferry migrants who are walking on the roads back to their homes. But nothing like that happened,” Tewari said.Also Read: Ration for migrants, farm relief in 2nd tranche of govt stimulusHis colleague Supriya Shrinate termed the stimulus package as a “loan mela” and said the government should give direct cash transfer to the poor to enhance the demand and this would cost just Rs 65,000 crore.“Look at the insensitivity of the government that is doing nothing for the workers walking on foot right now but talking about measures ahead… The indignity with which Prime Minister Narendra Modi talked about MNREGA, the same MNREGA is a life saver in rural areas today,” she added.Earlier, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said the party will ensure that the screams of migrant workers reach the government and described them as the ones carrying the country’s flag.“There is a dense darkness and these are difficult times, have courage, all of us are standing for the safety of all of them. We will ensure that their screams reach the government and they get the help they deserve. They are not the ordinary public of the country, they are the flag bearers of the country’s self-respect. We will never let them bow down,” he tweeted in Hindi. अंधकार घना है कठिन घड़ी है, हिम्मत रखिए-हम इन सभी की सुरक्षा में खड़े हैं। सरकार तक इनकी चीखें पहुँचा के रहेंगे, इनके हक़ की हर मदद दिला के रहेंगे। देश की साधारण जनता नहीं, ये तो देश के स्वाभिमान का ध्वज हैं... इसे कभी भी झुकने नहीं देंगे। pic.twitter.com/bBf48DiluYBut BJP president JP Nadda said the announcements showed the Prime Minister’s sensitivity towards the poor and the marginal people.I welcome announcements by FM @nsitharaman Ji for the benefit of migrant workers. Free food for two months to 8 Crore migrants, nationwide implementation of "One Nation One Ration Card" Scheme are major initiatives to ensure food security for migrant workers.“I welcome announcements by FM @nsitharaman Ji for the benefit of migrant workers. Free food for two months to 8 Crore migrants, nationwide implementation of One Nation One Ration Card Scheme are major initiatives to ensure food security for migrant workers,” he tweeted.“Rs 2 lakh crore concessional credit to 2.5 Cr PM Kisan beneficiary farmers & fishermen; and the Rs 30,00O crore additional funding from NABARD etc. will boost the farm sector,” he said in another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-left-migrants-to-mercy-of-god-cong/story-3yUsU2g6sIC1p5mmyoonQP.html
15-05-2020||India||Have adopted conscious approach to fight Covid-19: PM Modi to Bill Gates||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday underlined the “conscious approach that India has adopted in its fight against Covid-19” during a video conference with Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation co-chair, Bill Gates, the PMO said in a statement.“He explained how this people-centric bottom-up approach has helped win acceptability for physical distancing, respect for front-line workers, wearing of masks, maintaining proper hygiene, and respecting lockdown provisions,” the PMO statement said. Modi and Gates also discussed the global response to Covid-19 and the importance of global coordination on scientific innovation and R&D to combat the pandemic.The Prime Minister also highlighted how some of the previous developmental initiatives taken by Government - expanding financial inclusion, strengthening last mile delivery of health services, popularising cleanliness and hygiene through the Swachh Bharat Mission, drawing upon India’s Ayurvedic wisdom to enhance people’s immunity, etc - had helped increase the effectiveness of India’s response to the present pandemic.The Prime Minister appreciated the health related work being done by the Gates Foundation not only in India but also in many other parts of the world, including for coordinating global response to Covid-19. “He sought suggestions from Mr. Gates on how India’s capacities and capabilities could be better leveraged for the general benefit of the world,” the statement said.Modi and Gates also discussed drawing upon India’s unique model of last-mile health service delivery in rural areas, dissemination of the effective contact-tracing mobile app developed by Government of India, and leveraging India’s massive pharmaceutical capacity to scale-up the production of vaccines and therapeutics upon their discovery. “They agreed that given India’s willingness and capacity to contribute to global efforts, particularly for benefit of fellow developing countries, it was important for India to be included in the ongoing global discussions for coordinating responses to the pandemic,” the statement said.The Prime Minister also suggested that the Gates Foundation could take the lead in analysing the necessary changes in lifestyles, economic organisation, social behaviour, modes of disseminating education and healthcare that would emerge in the post-Covid world, and the associated technological challenges that would need to be addressed. “India would be happy to contribute to such an analytical exercise, based on its own experiences,” the Prime Minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-adopted-conscious-approach-to-fight-covid-19-pm-modi-to-bill-gates/story-7av0Az2InUjpMUZx0o9lkL.html
15-05-2020||India||India tops 2 million Covid-19 tests||The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tests carried out in India crossed 2 million on Thursday, doubling in 12 days.“Our target was to cross 2 million tests by the end of May, but we have done it two weeks ahead of our goal. With 504 laboratories, including 359 Government laboratories and 145 private ones, doing Covid-19 tests, we have also crossed the daily capacity of 100,000 tests,” Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said.At this level, India has tested around 1,540 people per million of its population, much higher than the 94.5 per million population it was testing in late March but still far lower than the tests per million in other countries. In the US, Spain, Russia, the UK, and Italy, the corresponding numbers are 31,080; 52,781; 42,403; 32,691; and 45,246 respectively. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe doubling rate of infections has slowed to 13.9 days, from 11.1 days over the past 14 days, the minister said. “The fatality rate is 3.2%, and the recovery rate has further improved to 33.6%, up from 32.83% on Wednesday. There are 3% of active cases in ICUs, of which 0.39% are on ventilators and 2.7% on oxygen support,” he added.Testing for Covid-19 has increased fivefold since April 1, when the cumulative number of people tested was 38,914, and daily testing is expected to cross 100,000 tests a day, from 5,580 a day on April 1. Covid-19 is diagnosed using Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) assay, which is the only diagnostic test for Covid-19 approved by the World Health Organization.Also Read: Sanofi CEO pledges virus vaccine for all after French backlash“India now has enough back-up resources to sustain and scale up testing comfortably at the present growth rate, if needed. We have reduced our dependence on imports substantially and with local manufacturing rising, there are no shortages. We have enough testing kits, RNA extraction kits, VTMs (viral transport medium) and other components to last us till July,” said CK Mishra, secretary, environment, and co-chair of the PM’s high-level committee on preparedness for a medical emergency.RT-PCR is used for qualitative detection of genetic material called Ribonucleic Acid (RNA) from Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, and is the most accurate diagnostic test for infection, while other tests, such as rapid antibody and Elisa tests, are surveillance tools that cannot test for current infection.“All our efforts, including our partnership with Serum Institute of India, have had a clear focus on making indigenous kits available at scale. Our scale-up of production capacity to 2 lakh kits a day is a testament to the prime minister’s vision of an Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India). We are at a stage where we should be able to take care of India’s domestic demand, if needed,” said Hasmukh Rawal, managing director, Mylab Discovery Solutions, which was the first lab in India to receive approval to manufacture RT-PCR testing kits.Also Read: Ration for migrants, farm relief in 2nd tranche of govt stimulusThe National Centre for Disease Control in Delhi now has a COBAS-6800 high-volume testing platform with a high throughput of testing around 1,200 samples in 24 hours. “The focus now is on strengthening the testing capability of states with low capacity by identifying regional labs to establish high-throughput PCR platforms for quality testing, getting private labs running, and if needed, getting an overflow of samples tested picked up for testing at other centres,” said Mishra.To build capacity in underserved regions, the Union government has sent 15 TrueNAT (RT-Micro PCR) machines to Bihar, where they can be set up in medical colleges to ramp up diagnosis. This is a small battery-operated micro-PCR platform that can run 32 to 48 samples in a day and produces results in one hour; it can be used in low-resource rural settings.Till Thursday, the total number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the country stood at 81,859 and deaths at 2,578. Nearly 28,000 patients had recovered from the highly infectious disease. The 14 states/UTs that have not reported any Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours are Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Goa, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Puducherry, and Telangana. Daman & Diu, Sikkim, Nagaland and Lakshadweep have not reported any case to date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-tops-2-million-covid-19-tests/story-0wVEATp5FNvBbrGlLd8WyK.html
15-05-2020||India||Assam asks Centre not to classify districts into Covid-19 zones; state tally now at 87||Instead of classifying entire districts into red, orange or green zones based on number of Covid-19 positive patients, the Assam government wants only those specific areas where cases have been detected to be turned into containment zones while allowing relaxations in other parts.“The Assam government has officially given its view to Delhi that we don’t want to follow this concept of zones as these are misnomers. Suppose we get a positive case in Fancy Bazaar, how are people in Noonmati (both areas located in Guwahati) affected by it?” Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Thursday evening.At present three of the 33 districts in the state—Dhubri, Goalpara and Marigaon have been placed in the orange zone while all others are in green zone.“We have recommended that we should be allowed to follow the policy of containment and buffer zones because classification of zones becomes subject to speculation and it concerns livelihoods of people,” Sarma said while addressing a press conference.“We will have to keep fighting with coronavirus, but at the same time economic activity should not suffer. Therefore, instead of classifying districts into zones, we should contain the particular area where infection has been detected, leaving the other areas free to pursue normal business activities while maintaining social distance and ensuring use of masks,” he added.Alert in Guwahati after 22 positive cases detected in 24 hoursWith 22 fresh cases detected in Guwahati in 24 hours, the authorities in Assam are on alert and there’s anxiety among residents of the state and northeast’s biggest city.While 15 people were detected positive on Wednesday, another 7 new cases were reported on Thursday taking the total number of patients in the state to 87. While two patients have died, 41 others have recovered, 43 are undergoing treatment and one patient has migrated to Bihar.A total of 137 people including 63 cancer patients and their attendants had arrived in Guwahati on Tuesday night after travelling over 2,500 km by road from Mumbai in six buses.All these people were kept in quarantine in a five-star hotel in Guwahati while their samples were taken and tested. On Thursday, seven of them including 3 cancer patients, one 13-year-old heart patient and 3 attendants were found positive for Covid-19. “It is expected people in Guwahati will be anxious after 22 cases have been detected within the past 24 hrs. But we are not surprised about the 7 cases detected on Thursday,” Sarma said.“Firstly they came from Mumbai and secondly even before these people came back, we had detected positive cases among some residents of Assam Bhawan in Mumbai where the patients and their attendants were staying,” he added.In view of the spurt in cases, nine areas in Guwahati have been turned into containment zones.Assam prepares SOP for passengers returning by trainAssam on Thursday released a fresh set of standard operating procedures to be followed while dealing with passengers returning to the state from other parts of the country by trains.The procedures list out how passengers will be dealt with once they enter Assam and get down at various stations. Officials have been asked to follow the rules on transportation, screening, testing and quarantine for the passengers.“Anyone found symptomatic will be segregated and taken to hospitals for tests. Others will be allowed to go to their home districts where they will be placed in institutional quarantine for at least 14 days,” Sarma said.Passengers over 75 years, children below 10 years and their families, pregnant women and persons with disabilities will be allowed to go to their homes where they as well as their family members will have to keep themselves quarantined for 14 days.Abandoning its earlier plan to turn schools and colleges into quarantine facilities, the government has now decided to requisition hotels, lodges etc. and keep passengers there. The cost of rent and food will be borne by the state government, Sarma said.Since resumption of inter-state movement on May 4, over 11,000 people have returned by road from across the country and other states in the northeast back to Assam. Eighteen of them have been found positive for Covid-19 till date.Nearly 500 passengers reached various locations in Assam on Wednesday and Thursday by the first train bringing back residents from Delhi. Two more trains, one from Delhi and another from Chennai, carrying over 800 passengers will reach the state on Thursday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-asks-centre-not-to-classify-districts-into-covid-19-zones-state-tally-now-at-87/story-BHyE6kz49u40OKh2hjb2PL.html
15-05-2020||India||Soldier missing, 1 reportedly dead in Sikkim avalanche||Eighteen soldiers, including three officers, were struck by a snow slide in Sikkim on Thursday of whom 17 were rescued by the army and the search for the sole missing man is on, an army official said. The missing soldier is a middle-rung army officer. The incident occurred near Lugnak La, which is at a height of more than 5,000 metre, in north Sikkim.“A snow clearance party came under sudden snow slide in north Sikkim. All soldiers have been evacuated safely but for one soldier who is still missing,” Intense search is underway to locate the missing soldier,” a spokesperson said. One of rescued soldiers, who was in a critical condition, succumbed to his injuries at the hospital, said a person familiar with the development late on Thursday.North Sikkim was the site of a confrontation between Indian and Chinese troops on May 9. The face-off was at Naku La. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured in the confrontation that involved around 150 soldiers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soldier-missing-1-reportedly-dead-in-sikkim-avalanche/story-RxXcvLvZCj7RWFelxC9kQM.html
15-05-2020||India||PM, Bill Gates talk global cooperation to beat pandemic||Weeks after Microsoft founder Bill Gates praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his measures to contain Covid-19, the two had an interaction via video conference on Thursday evening. A statement by the Prime Minister’s Office said Gates, who is the co-founder of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, discussed the “the importance of global coordination on scientific innovation and R&D to combat the pandemic’’.The statement said Gates discussed the Aarogya Setu app and its role in tackling Covid 19.“India’s unique model of last-mile health service delivery in rural areas, dissemination of the effective contact-tracing mobile app developed by government of India, and above all by leveraging India’s massive pharmaceutical capacity to scale-up the production of vaccines and therapeutics upon their discovery. They agreed that given India’s willingness and capacity to contribute to global efforts, particularly for benefit of fellow developing countries, it was important for India to be included in the ongoing global discussions for coordinating responses to the pandemic,’’ said the statement.PM Modi is reported to have suggested that the Gates Foundation could take the lead in analyzing the changes in the post pandemic world – in lifestyle, economic organisation, social behaviour, modes of disseminating education and healthcare --and the associated technological challenges.In his letter last month, Bill Gates had told the Prime Minister, ``Grateful to see that you’re seeking to balance public health imperatives with the need to ensure adequate social protection for all Indians.’’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-bill-gates-talk-global-cooperation-to-beat-pandemic/story-4IMsNH8zfkCHcVwdIjAMlJ.html
15-05-2020||India||Political barbs fly over Nirav’s case||The Bharatiya Janata party (BJP) said on Thursday that a deposition by a former high court judge, Abhay Thipsay ,in the Nirav Modi extradition trial in London showed the Congress was trying to shield the fugitive diamond merchant, wanted in India in connection with a financial fraud at Punjab National Bank (PNB).On Wednesday, Thipsay made a statement on the legal nuances under Indian law around the inadmissibility of some police statements in the case against Modi as well as the definition of deception under Indian law.Reacting to Thipsay’s comments, Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said his statement was legally untenable. “A retired judge is giving a judicial certificate; his opinion is legally unsound. This is an attempt to give a misleading defence of a questionable legal variety and we are confident that the legal process will not be affected,” he told reporters through a web conference.Prasad also alleged that the former judge was a member of the Congress party, and it was during the tenure of the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA)’s two terms in office that loans to Modi and his uncle Mehul Choksi’s companies had been sanctioned.“Who is this judge, Abhay Thipsay?. He’s a retired judge from the Mumbai high court, 10 months prior to his retirement, he was transferred by the SC collegium on administrative grounds to the Allahabad high court.”“After retirement he joined the Congress party in the presence of Rahul Gandhi, Ashok Gehlot and Ashok Chauhan,” Prasad said. He added that the Congress did not deny its former president Rahul Gandhi’s presence at an event where Modi was present. (The event was held in September 2013).“His uncle’s company (Choksi) was given benefit when [P] Chidambaram was the finance minister. Geetanjali Exports was given benefits after results of 2014 general elections were announced; a caretaker government took a decision that was questionable,” Prasad said.The minister said the Indian government was making all efforts to ensure that Modi is extradited.“When the country is trying to bring him back, and the process is underway, a Congress judge is taking a legally unsustainable stand. The BJP condemns this sinister attempt of the Congress to bail out this criminal,” he said. When contacted, Justice Thipsay denied that the Congress party has anything to do with his legal opinion. “I was asked by a legal firm for my opinion as many judges are asked and I was asked if there was a case of deception made out in the first extradition report. It is my opinion that it was not made out and my opinion was shared with Government of India. They also agreed with parts of my opinion so why should there be controversy,’’ he said. He said that while he was a primary member of the Congress, he wasn’t a part of any of the party’s propaganda machinery. “It’s my job as a legal expert and I get paid for it. I don’t see what it has to do with the party,’’ he said.The Congress, too, rubbished the allegations, saying advocates had a right to appear for their clients. “#lawministers know right of advocates 2appear 4clients which cnot b trifled with. #Thipsay gave evidence in UK court which he has right 2do wo dictation by BJP,” party spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-barbs-fly-over-nirav-s-case/story-BjcgDxxi2pDgoETEugIjzH.html
15-05-2020||India||UGC may relax norms, Distance learning may be promoted||New Delhi: The University Grants Commission (UGC) is likely to relax norms to allow more institutes to offer open and distance learning courses to make up for the learning loss due to the lockdown imposed in late March to check the Covid-19 spread, officials aware of the matter said.The issue of setting a new benchmark for these institutions to commence the courses was discussed at a meeting of UGC, the higher education regulator, on Thursday.“Last year, it had been stipulated that institutions, which have an accreditation score of 3.26 or above, will be allowed to offer ODL [open and distance learning] courses. Several institutions, especially state universities and private ones, have scored less than one. If this norm is followed, these would be unable to offer ODL courses. At the meeting, it was discussed that the criteria should be relaxed and brought to an accreditation score of 3 for universities to offer ODL, or correspondence courses, as they are popularly known,” said an official on condition of anonymity.The National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) grades universities and those scoring above 3 on a scale of 4 are counted as A-grade institutions.UGC come out with norms recently to ensure only the best institutions offer open and distance learning courses.Officials said that many UGC members at the Thursday’s meeting cited the situation in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and said it will be better to allow institutions with lesser scores to offer these courses at least for a year. It was felt the benchmark of a NAAC score of 3 should be allowed. “...once a final call is taken, UGC will officially announce it,” said the official cited above.Among other decisions taken at the meeting related to the signing of MoUs with some universities chosen as Institutes of Eminence (IoE) for greater autonomy. The official said Tamil Nadu’s Anna University and Jadavpur University (Kolkata) were likely to be granted the status as well.“In the case of these two universities, the state governments had not shown eagerness to contribute their share of Rs 1,000 crore grant... It is likely they will be conferred the status with the Centre paying its share of Rs 500 crore. However, after looking at all aspects UGC and [union] HRD [human resource development ministry] will make the declaration,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ugc-may-relax-norms-distance-learning-may-be-promoted/story-5PK0WA8qBWcUc6TmA8X8oM.html
15-05-2020||India||Nirav Modi won’t have problem in Arthur Road jail, India tells UK court||London: India has provided sovereign assurances and details of the Barrack number 12 of Arthur Road jail in Mumbai, where diamantaire Nirav Modi, who is facing extradition proceedings, is to be lodged, even as a British valuer of gems and jewellery deposed in his favour on the fourth day of his trial on Thursday.Conditions in Indian jails have been one of the major objections highlighted in extradition cases in the UK. The issue was dealt with in exhaustive detail in the Vijay Mallya case, in which the Westminster Magistrates Court upheld India’s assurances and details submitted.Similar objections have been raised by Modi’s defence team – including alleged presence of rats, insects, uncovered drains and noise from slums near the jail – as part of its contention that there is risk to his human rights in the Arthur Road jail.UK courts are obliged to refuse extradition if there is a risk of the requested person’s human rights in the country that makes the extradition request.As in the Mallya case, the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) opposed Modi’s claims in its ‘skeleton argument’, stating that his submissions “fail to acknowledge the recent consideration of this issue in the Mallya proceedings” by judge Emma Arbuthnot of the magistrates court in her December 2018 judgement.The CPS documents states: “In Mallya, the Senior District Judge was required to consider assurances offered by the GOI (government of India) in the same terms as those offered in this case. She conducted an exhaustive consideration of whether those assurance could be accepted…She concluded that they could be accepted”.The assurances provided by the ministry of home affairs, the CPS told the court, are plainly sufficient to meet the concerns raised by Modi’s team. The document goes on to specifically address points raised and cited video footage of the jail and other submissions as evidence:Overcrowding: Barrack No. 12 has two cells, with a maximum capacity of six inmates (per cell). The RP (requested person) would be provided a minimum of 3 square meters of personal space throughout the course of his detention. The video of the cell amply demonstrates availability of sufficient space.Heat, noise and lack of privacy: This is not accepted. Barrack No. 12 has adequate space, which ensures privacy. The cell is well ventilated and provides adequate air circulation and the concern about heat is unfounded. There is no noise in the cell which is separated from its surroundings by at least 20 feet by way of thick high stone walls.Metal casing causing excessive heat in the cell: The metal casing starts after clearing a ground level of 20 feet and provides a security cover to the cell. The ground clearance of 20 feet ensures adequate air circulation and actually helps in regulating temperatures. Further the ceiling is about 20 feet high and hence naturally cool in summers. Mumbai has a moderate climate and does not experience extreme temperature.Insufficient/natural light: The video amply shows adequate natural light enough to allow reading during day time. In addition, there are ‘06 tube lights’ to afford adequate artificial light at night. The lights are shown in the video.Dust and noise pollution from the adjoining slum areas: The concern is unfounded as the cell is separated from the outside area by way of a thick 20 feet high stone wall.Uncovered drains and presence of rats and insects: The video clearly shows that there are no uncovered drains in and around Barrack No.12. There are no rats or insects in the cell, another fact demonstrated by the video. The assurance further provides that the Municipal Corporation visits Barrack No. 12 once a week and fumigates the barrack.Absence of pharmacy/medicines: Round-the-clock medicare facilities assured by the government of India naturally include medicines as prescribed by doctors and specialists and the same would be provided to the RP as and when so prescribed.Access to hospitals: A 24-hour ambulance service is available to carry inmates to the nearby hospitals if required.Emergency access to hospitals: The ambulance service is available 24 hours a day.The CPS said India has provided “comprehensive rebuttals” to the evidence served on Modi’s behalf, adding that “no evidence has been served that justifies a departure from the approach taken in Mallya”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirav-modi-won-t-have-problem-in-arthur-road-jail-india-tells-uk-court/story-rQc8KGZTSest6yt6acSMGL.html
15-05-2020||India||Covid-19: 32k to return in Phase 2 of Vande Bharat Mission||The second phase of India’s massive programme to repatriate citizens stranded abroad because of the Covid-19 pandemic will bring home about 32,000 people, more than double the figure for the first phase, people familiar with developments said on Thursday.State-run Air India and its subsidiary Air India Express will operate 149 flights to 31 countries, including the US, Australia and France, during the second phase of Vande Bharat Mission beginning on May 16. The first phase, which mostly focused on West Asian countries, has 64 flights.“There will be more flights and more destinations in the second phase. We are looking to bring back about 32,000 people,” said one of the people cited above, who spoke on condition of anonymity.About 15,000 citizens are expected to be repatriated from 12 countries during the first phase of Vande Bharat Mission, which will end on May 15, and 56 flights have already been brought back more than 12,000 Indian nationals.An additional 904 Indians were repatriated from the Maldives by two Indian Navy warships on May 10 and 12, and some more nationals arrived in the country on deportation flights from various countries.The people said requests from OCI card holders can be considered after the government meets the minimum expectations of its Indian nationals seeking to return home. Embassies in West Asian countries are also in touch with stakeholders following offers from private firms to repatriate Indian workers who had been laid off, they said.So far, 188,646 Indian nationals have registered with the external affairs ministry to return, and priority will be given to those with compelling reasons for repatriation, such as workers who have been laid off due to the pandemic, pregnant women, and people with medical emergencies.“An additional 18 countries are covered under the second phase, including Indonesia, Thailand, Australia, Italy, France, Germany, Ireland, Canada, Japan, Nigeria, Kazakhstan and Ukraine. We are broadening the ambit of Vande Bharat Mission every week in a phased manner, in line with our quarantine capacity and health protocols,” said external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava.He described Vande Bharat Mission as the largest and most complex exercise undertaken by the government for repatriating citizens stranded abroad, for which the external affairs ministry is working closely with the ministries of civil aviation, home and health and state governments.Referring to the deployment of the warship INS Kesari for Mission Sagar, an operation to provide medical aid and supplies to the Maldives, Mauritius, Madagascar, Comoros and Seychelles, Srivastava said the vessel is currently docked at Male to offload 550 tonnes of food supplies. The warship is carrying two medical assistance teams, a consignment of Covid-19-related essential medicines and food supplies. “This is inspired by the prime minister’s vision of Sagar – security and growth for all in the region. This is also in keeping with India’s role as a first responder in the region,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/32k-to-return-in-phase-2-of-vande-bharat/story-PSKkVKTHwP9xqQCfF6MvtL.html
15-05-2020||India||‘Verdict on Vijay Mallya big win for us’: CBI||Former liquor baron Vijay Mallya tried every trick up his sleeve to beat Indian attempts to have him extradited home to face prosecution for financial malfeasance, but his battery of lawyers couldn’t quite weaken the tight case the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) built against the fugitive businessman.The businessman, who fled to London on March 2, 2016 as bankers closed in on him to recover an estimated Rs. 9,000 crore owed by his grounded airline Kingfisher Airlines, is likely to be India in four to five weeks after exhausting his legal options in the UK. For the agencies, winning the extradition case had become a matter of national pride, one that would set an example for other fugitives.CBI termed the UK high court’s decision to reject his plea for permission to appeal against extradition in the UK Supreme Court as a “big victory” for the agency and a “big jolt” for Mallya, 64, a former Rajya Sabha member.“The decision of the UK high court to order extradition of Vijay Mallya is a milestone in CBI’s quest for excellence and a reminder that economic offenders, facing probes in large-value frauds, cannot consider themselves as above the process merely because they have changed jurisdictions. The judgement also vindicates the painstaking investigation by CBI, especially since Mr Mallya had raised various issues with regard to the admissibility of evidence, the fairness of investigation itself and extraneous considerations, with a view to divert attention from his own acts,” said CBI spokesperson RK Gaur.During the extradition proceedings held in the court of chief magistrate Emma Arbuthnot between December 4, 2017 and December 10, 2018, Mallya engaged experts from banking and aviation sectors, prisons conditions/human rights, political economics and law, apart from erstwhile executives of United Breweries Group and Force India Formula One Team Limited to defend himself.“He tried to defend himself by making submissions claiming about business failure and that the trial against him was motivated by extraneous factors including media frenzy, political motivations, etc. He also mentioned that the prison conditions in India did not conform to the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) regulations and that the Indian prisons were incapable of providing {him} with the stipulated lodging facilities with adequate healthcare, food, exercise in conformity with European Convention on Human Rights norms (ECHR),” said a CBI official who didn’t want to be named.Those claims were successfully refuted by the joint teams of ED and CBI.Mallya questioned then CBI special director Rakesh Asthana’s professional integrity during the trial, but judge Emma Arbuthnot rejected the allegations saying: “I find that there is no evidence that Mr Asthana has acted corruptly.”CBI, under Asthana and his team members -- ex-joint director Sai Manohar and investigating officer Suman Kumar -- made a video of barrack number 12 at Byculla jail in Mumbai, where Mallya would be lodged if he returned, to show that prison conditions in India were up to European standards. They collected elaborate evidence of a conspiracy with bank officials and forgery. They even pursued every hearing in the UK courts by one of them being physically present there to assist the crown prosecution service (CPS), which represented the Indian government.Suman Kumar, who has won the outstanding investigator award in CBI twice, has been associated with the Mallya probe from the beginning. Asthana is currently director general of the bureau of civil aviation security (BCAS) and Manohar has gone back to his parent cadre, Madhya Pradesh.In ED, much of the credit goes to Satyabrata Kumar, joint director of the agency’s Mumbai’s Zone, who has been In-charge of the probe from day one and was often present at the UK court. Kumar and his team traced all bank transactions of Mallya and his associates in a dozen countries to prove that public money was laundered in a systematic manner. The ED team also attached properties worth around Rs 13,000 crore, more than what he owed to the banks (Rs 9,000 crore).Mallya seemed to have accepted defeat. “Congratulations to the Government for a Covid 19 relief package. They can print as much currency as they want BUT should a small contributor like me who offers 100% payback of State owned Bank loans be constantly ignored ? Please take my money unconditionally and close,” he wrote in a Tweet.Rakesh Asthana and Satyabrata Kumar couldn’t be reached for comment on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/verdict-on-mallya-big-win-for-us-cbi/story-JXAmbFprN04IWhsS6mrdMO.html
15-05-2020||India||Hottest across globe, this April wasn’t harsh in India||Globally, this April was the second hottest on record in 141 years of record keeping by National Oceanic Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). But India was among the few spots in the world which recorded below average temperature in April. Parts of North America also recorded an unusually cold April.April 2016 was the hottest April on record.Scientists in India are trying to ascertain what could be causing such mild weather through the summer months -- and even in mid-May. Kota in Rajasthan and Khajuraho in Madhya Pradesh recorded the highest temperature on Wednesday at 41.6 degrees C, which is 3 to 4 degrees C lower than normal, according to the India Meteorogical department (IMD) scientists.April 2020 marked the 44th consecutive April and the 424th consecutive month with temperatures above the 20th-century average, but the average April temperature in north and central India was 1 to 2 degrees below average, according to NOAA .The warmest April temperatures were recorded across northern Asia or the Siberian region where temperatures were 4 degrees C above average or higher. Other very warm areas include western Australia, central Europe, the Gulf of Mexico, the Labrador and Bering seas, parts of the northern and southern Pacific Ocean, and Antarctica. Temperatures of 2 degrees C below average were recorded across Canada and contiguous parts of US. The average temperatures in the January to April period in India was also average to lower than average, according to NOAA.“The atmospheric dynamics are not conducive in India for temperatures to pick up. Local factors are not enough for temperatures to rise. Large scale atmospheric dynamics also affect [temperatures]. We have had a very high western disturbance activity this year, which has caused clouding on many days and has reduced solar radiation. There has been cold air incursion from the north. There could be many reasons for this, including North Atlantic Oscillation or Arctic Oscillation or sea ice melting in the Arctic. We have to analyse these factors,” said M Rajeevan Nair, secretary, ministry of earth sciences. North Atlantic Oscillation is a fluctuation of atmospheric pressure over the North Atlantic Ocean that has a strong effect on winter weather in Europe, Greenland, northeastern North America, North Africa, and northern Asia.Between March 1 and May 13, the pre-monsoon season, central India received 157% excess rains; northwest India received 39% excess rains; and the country as whole received 19% excess rains.“Yes we had relatively cold January and February and then mild weather in March and April but this could also be linked to climate variability. Only if it is unusually cool or if mild weather continues for a few years can we probably link it to climate change,” said Krishna Achuta Rao, Professor, Centre for Atmospheric Sciences at IIT Delhi.In April, the global land and ocean surface temperature was 1.06 degree C above the 20th-century average of 13.7 degree C. This was the second highest April temperature, only April 2016 was warmer by 1.13°C degree C. Sea ice coverage for April 2020 was 6.5% below the 1981–2010 average and the fourth-smallest April extent on record for the Arctic.Meanwhile, a low pressure area over southeast Bay of Bengal and adjoining south Andaman Sea has become well marked. It is very likely to concentrate into a depression over central parts of south Bay of Bengal on May 15 and further intensify into a cyclonic storm, Amphan, over the same region by May 16, IMD said. The cyclone may make landfall on West Bengal coast or in the northeast, according to private weather forecasters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hottest-across-globe-this-april-wasn-t-harsh-in-india/story-eLomDQ8mJVD8RAjKw2yB3J.html
15-05-2020||India||15 migrants on way home killed in 24 hrs||Fifteen migrant workers on their way back to their homes were killed in three accidents, one each in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar in the past 24 hours, police officials said.They added that close to 100 were also injured in road accidents across states on Thursday, as migrant workers continue to seek rides on trucks, cycle, or just walk on the country’s highways in a struggle to return home. The government , starting May 1, announced special trains for migrant workers, but there are still far too few of them and far too many workers wanting to return home. Some of the workers do not have documentation required to travel; others have not registered for the trains or buses being run. Millions of workers were left without work across cities and towns in India when the lockdown was announced on March 24, resulting in the first wave of workers going back to their villages. Every phase of the extension has seen a new wave -- the lockdown was extended twice, from April 14 to May 3 and then May 3 to May 17. On May 8, 16 workers sleeping on the tracks were run over by a goods train in Maharashtra’s Aurangabad district. On May 9, five workers were killed in Madhya Pradesh’s Narsinghpur district when the truck in which they were travelling hit the central verge of the road. Late on Wednesday night, six labourers, who were walking from Punjab to their village in Gopalganj, Bihar, were killed and four others were seriously injured when a Uttar Pradesh Road Transport  bus ran over them on the Saharanpur-Muzaffarnagar highway.Dr Vineet Kaushik of Muzaffarnagar district hospital confirmed that 10 people were brought in and six of them were declared dead. In Madhya Pradesh’s Guna, eight migrant labourers, travelling in a truck from Mumbai to Unnao in Uttar Pradesh, were killed and 55 others injured when a bus rammed into their truck early on Thursday, police said.Guna district Superintendent of police Tarun Nayak said, “Eight of the labourers were killed on the spot and the injured have been hospitalised. Once discharged, they will be sent to their homes in buses.” Mahendra Pal , one of the injured workers said” “The truck driver demanded Rs 3,000 per person. However, the amount was to be paid after reaching our destinations.” Another traveler, Mohd Sibu, said, “I asked for money from my family as I had no money left with me. We got the truck at Thane (Maharashtra).”Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra said, “The state has issued instructions to the authorities to make all arrangements for the treatment of labourers.”In Bihar, a migrant worker was killed and 27 others were injured in an accident in Samastipur district. Police said a bus carrying 44 migrants collided with a truck on Thursday. All the injured were taken to Sadar hospital were two of them are said to be in serious condition .In Odisha, at least 15 migrant workers were injured, four of them seriously after the minibus in which they were travelling, crashed into a tree in Angul district on Wednesday night, hours after authorities arranged the bus for them. Police officials said they stopped 15 migrants walking towards Purinakote area of Keonjhar district from Palasa in Andhra Pradesh and arranged the bus for them.In all, the government officials in states have confirmed death of 109 migrant workers on roads during the 50 day lockdown period.(With inputs from states)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-migrants-on-way-home-killed-in-24-hrs/story-xj6eUxQY77wG8sq9JfwJwM.html
15-05-2020||India||Plea in SC against labour law dilution||A petition was filed in the Supreme Court on Thursday to challenge the decisions of Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh to freeze major labour laws, a move the state governments deemed necessary to revive the economy amid the challenges presented by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The changes give industries more flexibility in hiring and firing employees, determining their wages, and reduce their liabilities in terms of providing employee benefits.The petitioner, Jharkhand-based journalist Pankaj Kumar Yadav, submitted that diluting labour laws will lead to exploitation of labourers, many of whom have already lost their livelihood due to the national lockdown necessitated by the Covid-19 outbreak.“A welfare state cannot be expected to force its least fortunate and most oppressed citizens into further miseries on the pretext of facilitating economic activities/development by taking away their existing rights,” the petition said.Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat recently froze major labour laws by exempting industrial units from the purview of the laws. While UP suspended key labour laws for three years through an ordinance, MP said it was taking a similar course to put most labour laws on hold for 1,000 days. Similar decisions were taken by the MP and Gujarat governments.Yadav pointed out that the labour laws in India are legislations intended to protect the “oppressed class”. He said that freezing the labour laws will lead to an increase in daily and weekly working hours and deprivation of basic human facilities at the workplace, the right to approach courts of law and routine inspection of industrial units by the factory inspectors, etc.The petition highlighted the exemption granted from the Factories Act. The same was granted under Section 5 of the Factories Act, which allows government to exempt industrial units from the purview of the Act during “public emergency”. The Act defines “public emergency” as a grave emergency threatening the security of India caused by a war, external aggression or internal disturbance.The petitioner argued that the Covid-19 pandemic does not fall under the category of “public emergency”. Yadav said that many of the labour laws were enacted after 1947 but before the Constitution of India came into force in 1950, which highlights the significance which the founding fathers of the country attached to those laws.The plea said that the states, through the measures, were depriving labourers from welfare in order to facilitate the “oppressor class” at a time when the workmen have been worst affected by the global pandemic. “It is (a) well known fact today that lakhs of workers have lost their livelihood during the lockdown imposed for controlling the pandemic situation and they are forced to lead a life of misery. Under such circumstances, the withdrawal of welfare measures from the labourers/workmen as a whole would lead to their further miseries and exploitation at the hands of their employers, who are being exempted from the statutory liabilities to look after the welfare of their employees,” the petition said.While some economists have welcomed the states’ move for clearing structural bottlenecks, possibly leading to greater investment, the Opposition, particularly Left parties, said the measures would undermine worker rights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-sc-against-labour-law-dilution/story-DwyPdSZ8COi7VFBlO3k5MM.html
15-05-2020||India||Regular train tickets scrapped till June 30; special trains to run||Bookings made for regular trains before and during the lockdown for journeys till June 30 stand cancelled and affected passengers will receive full refund, Indian Railways said on Thursday.However, bookings for 15 pairs of special premium trains and those carrying migrant workers to their destinations during the lockdown will continue. “Regular passenger service including Mail/Express, Passenger and Suburban services have been cancelled until further advice. Competent authority has desired that all tickets booked for the above trains for the period up to 30th June 2020 may be cancelled and full refund generated as per provisions,” a railway ministry order said.Advance booking of tickets was allowed up to 120 days from the date of journey before lockdown, which came into effect on March 25. “Tickets booked for May and June must have been booked before lockdown from January to March. We have issued a refund for all,” a railway ministry spokesperson said Railways said online cancellation and refund facility is available for e-tickets. Those who bought tickets at the counter for journeys will get a six-month window, as against the usual three days, to cancel and get refunds.The ministry also made it mandatory for passengers boarding premium air-conditioned trains that began plying from May 12, to provide their destination address while booking tickets on the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) website or on its app. This means a person returning to his residence in Mumbai from New Delhi will have to provide his house address.“With effect from May 13, IRCTC has started taking the destination address of all passengers booking tickets. This will help us in contact tracing, if required later,” a ministry spokesperson said. Till Thursday, railways said a total of 800 “Shramik Special” trains, which are ferrying migrant labourers home, have been operated with over one million passengers. The trains started running on May 1.These trains have terminated in states such as Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Manipur, Mizoram, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and West Bengal.Separately, the railways reported 234,411 passenger bookings worth Rs 45.30 crore till Wednesday for all 30 premium trains (15 pairs) the government has been running since May 12.For now, officials are accepting bookings up to seven days in advance. Before the lockdown prompted by the coronavirus disease came into effect, the corresponding period was 120 days.The government also allowed state authorities to arrange buses while maintaining social distancing in order to ferry passengers arriving on trains. The ministry also pointed out it has already allowed such passengers’ journeys to and from stations despite lockdown curbs if they have their e-tickets with them.For the special passenger trains that have been running, refund rules issued by the ministry will apply. Online cancellation will be permitted up to 24 hours before scheduled departure, and the cancellation charge shall be 50% of the fare.Railways has also said passengers who will not be allowed to travel for symptoms of the Covid-19 will receive full refund for their tickets. The federal guidelines make it mandatory for all passengers to undergo health screening.In an order issued late on Wednesday night, the Centre also allowed wait-listed tickets to be issued for the special passenger trains from May 22. This will be applicable for the bookings beginning May 15. Wait-listed tickets are not allowed at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/regular-train-tickets-scrapped-till-june-30-spl-trains-to-run/story-pxPunsS1gmPEjKgTTMNmVJ.html
15-05-2020||India||Dental Council of India against dentists in Covid-19 wards||The Dental Council of India (DCI) has issued an advisory to all state governments, dean of dental colleges and state dental councils, asking them not to post dentists in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) wards. The Union health ministry has asked states to make use of dental doctors in managing Covid-19 in the field, if required.The DCI advisory said dentists should only be used for non-medical work, such as pre-screening, recording case history and identification of vulnerable age groups, community engagement, contact tracing and patient tracking, and health facility infection control management.“…the DCI noticed that the dentists are being posted in isolation wards to discharge their duties under COVID-19. The executive committee of the DCI, in its online meeting held on 13th May, 2020, has unanimously decided to issue an advisory to the effect that no dentist/dental professional should be posted in isolation wards to treat the COVID-19 patients, which may put the patient at risk,” wrote secretary, DCI, Dr Sabyasachi Saha, in his advisory released on Wednesday.“A dentist, however, can perform the following duties: 1. pre-screening. 2. recording case history and identification of vulnerable age groups 3. community engagement, contact tracing and patient tracking. 4. health facility infection control management 5. administrative work related to COVID-19 from purchases, record management etc. 6. health dashboard maintenance and Information, education and communication (IEC) related activities 7. post discharge counselling and management of patients. 8. review supply chains and stocks of essential medicines 9. organising capacity building and training for healthcare professionals. Accordingly, the DCI hereby advise all the concerned authorities of the respective States/UTs/District Authorities etc. to follow the aforesaid guidelines/advisory,” it further reads.“MBBS doctors will always be given first preference, but in case of any emergency situation then dentists can also be utilized as they have a medical background. We even have Ayush doctors in managing Covid-19 patients, dentists should be any day better equipped to handle patients who are not severely ill in an ICU,” says Dr KK Talwar, former director, PGI-Chandigarh.A senior dental expert in the government, however, said that dentists should be deployed in Covid-19 wards only after training.“When it comes to clinical skills, practice matters a great deal. For example, an ICU nurse might be able to put an intravenous line quicker than a doctor. They should be trained because dentists don’t do these things on a regular basis, which is crucial in how well a patient is handled,” he said, requesting not to be identified. Dr Talwar agrees. “That is always an option to provide dentists some short training and utilise them.”Meanwhile, the All India Ophthalmological Society (AIOS) also recently asked the Union health ministry to cancel all eye camps that are held across the country for at least two months because of the risk of patients getting infected with viral infection in these mass camps.Such camps are organised in areas that are too far from specialist institutes. An affliction that is commonly treated here is that of cataract, a major cause of blindness. According to the union ministry of health and family welfare, over 6 million cataract surgeries were done every year since 2014. “We have spoken to the government and asked them to shut all active camps to avoid congregation of patients. The chance of infection is very high among ophthalmologists since we are in close proximity to the patient and if the patient is infected, the blindness could be compounded,” said Dr Mahipal Sachdeva, president, AIOS. With migrant workers returning home, the infection risk has gone up.Under guidelines for ophthalmologists that the AIOS released on May 11, it allows elective procedures, including cataract surgeries, in all areas except in containment zones. It requires patients to acknowledge risking infection at the treatment centre and declare whether they came in contact with a Covid-19 patient and whether they have activated the Aarogya Setu mobile digital tracking application.The guidelines also ask whether they or anyone they were living with had a “red eye”, a reference to conjunctivitis, an extremely contagious disease that shows up as a result of bacterial or viral infection.“Since conjunctivitis is reported as part of the disease spectrum of Covid-19 in China, all patients with conjunctivitis should be Covid-19 suspects and should be examined in isolation, using N95 mask and disposable gloves, face shield & gown,” it read.It also sought that the Covid-19 test be administered on those donating their corneas that can be preserved for 48 hours till the test results are available. The RT-PCR test process (from collecting samples to providing results) can take as long as five days. “There is risk of transmission at the time of donation. Tears have been shown to have the coronavirus,” said Sachdeva.“That [consent form] addresses the apprehensions of the community of doctors because anyone on Covid-19 duty is protected under the Epidemic Act. But otherwise there is no protection for anybody in the medical profession. Even organ donors have to be tested. We have written to the government to increase testing,” said Dr Rajan Sharma, president, Indian Medical Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/council-against-dentists-in-covid-wards/story-vYPn65JuUdz5vaSJ9ou2LI.html
15-05-2020||India||Indian Covid-19 vaccine development to be backed by PM-CARES Fund||The government has allocated R 100 crores from the PM-CARES (Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations) Fund to support the initiative to develop a vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19). There are as many as 25 vaccine development initiatives underway in India, across academic institutions, industry, and start-ups, according to the Department of Biotechnology.The allocation will be utilised under the supervision of the Principal Scientific Advisor, K VijayRaghavan.“The allocation of Rs 100 crores from the PM-CARES fund was announced just yesterday; we will take a stand on how to utilise it within the next couple of days. But definitely the support will be for a completely indigenous vaccine candidate,” said Dr Renu Swarup, secretary, department of biotechnology, which is the nodal agency for Covid-19 vaccine development effort in the Prime Minister’s Task Force.Also Read: India tops 2 million Covid-19 testsAt least 10 vaccine projects are getting support -- both monetary and regulatory – under the DBT-BIRAC (Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council) consortium. It is unclear whether these projects will also be eligible for money from PM-CARES. “These projects are already receiving support from BIRAC, besides it is too early to say whether this funding will go to any of them. Most of them have international partnerships. Apart from these10 candidates, there are about fifteen others from different research groups. These are in different stages of development and are currently being evaluated by the committee to see which has come further along and make more sense,” said Dr Swarup.Thus far, DBT-BIRAC has backed 70 proposals; it accepts applications of a rolling basis. Of these 70 proposals, 10 are vaccine candidates, 34, diagnostics for development or scale-up,10, are therapeutic options, two are drug repurposing proposals, and 14 are preventive interventions.Also Read: Ration for migrants, farm relief in 2nd tranche of govt stimulusSome of the vaccine candidates being supported by the consortium include a next-generation mRNA vaccine candidate by Gennova and another by Christian Medical College, Vellore. These vaccines use genetic material of the virus to create immune response. Work on an intra-nasal vaccine by Indian Institute of Chemical Technology is also being supported by it. Another vaccine candidate selected for funding has been developed by Bharat Biotech, which uses an inactivated rabies virus as the vector or transport of some genetic sequence of Sars-Cov-2 and produce an immune response.“All the proposals under the consortium are being funded by the National Biopharma Mission. However, these activities were not pre-budgeted, so some of the existing projects are being shelved to fund those that are high-priority. A budgetary supplementation request has been submitted to continue the non-Covid commitments,” said Dr Manish Diwan, head, strategic partnerships and entrepreneurship development at BIRAC.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe Department of Biotechnology has also constituted the National Biomedical Resource Indigenisation Consortium N-BRIC as a Public Private Partnership to drive indigenous innovation focused on developing reagents, diagnostics, vaccines and therapeutics for Covid-19. The consortium will be based out of Centre for Cellular and Molecular Platforms (C-CAMP) in Bangalore and will aim to provide a platform for building indigenous biomedical resources, a C-CAMP statement said.Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, Chairperson of N-BRIC said: “This consortium is of immense national importance at a time of an unprecedented global health emergency. This will enable us to synergise and optimise the latent capabilities we possess across the pyramid of academic research labs, start-ups, MSMEs and large enterprise to deliver innovative solutions at scale for India and the world.”Also Read: Have adopted conscious approach to fight Covid-19: PM Modi to Bill Gates “To meet our biotech and biomedical needs, the country needs to be self-reliant for product manufacturing and also the components, reagents, resources across the product development chain, N-BRIC brings together academia, industry, start-ups and MSME to serve not just the country but the world,” said Swarup.C-CAMP is a life sciences incubator supported by DBT. Its mandate is to enable cutting-edge life science research and innovation, and promote entrepreneurship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-vaccine-development-to-be-backed-by-pm-cares/story-RLUxmlAlPnheClpTLbaSEK.html
15-05-2020||India||Aatma Nirbhar Bharat will mean from Made in India to Made by India: SJM||Swadeshi Jagran Manch (SJM), an affiliate of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), has identified six specific areas for indigenisation, or a swadeshi movement, to gain ground after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a Rs 20-lakh crore package on Tuesday for an Aatma Nirbhar, or a self-reliant India, in a bid to tide over the all-round economic disruption caused by the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak across the country.Aatma Nirbhar Bharat resonates well with the Sangh’s core philosophy of Swadeshi, or being indigenous, and the PM’s announcement was perceived as the first steps for reshaping this policy in keeping with their long-pending demand.“This has been a bold step by the government, but there’s a need to do more, as Aatma Nirbhar will mean moving from just ‘Made in India’ to ‘Made by India’,” said Kashmiri Lal, all-India organiser, SJM.He said India would need to focus on six areas such as decentralising its policymaking; taking rural-centric decisions; keeping the poor at the core of its policies; moving away from jobless growth; formulating environment-friendly policies and also taking decisions that are rooted in swadeshi traditions.He said for India to become truly self-reliant efforts must be made to not replicate the global work patterns that don’t sit well with the traditional way of life and focus should be on ensuring that from raw material to the final production, the country relies only on its own resources.‘Make by India’ would mean that global companies in India do not make the product, but from scratch to the finish will be locally made and delivered, he added.On Tuesday, PM Modi in a bid to push local production said to be vocal about local, and this was followed by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs instructing canteens run by the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) to sell only indigenous products from June 1.Cutting dependence on imports, especially from China, has been on the Sangh’s wish list for a while; and its other affiliates such as the Swadeshi Jagran Manch, the Laghu Udyog Bharati, and the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh have periodically raised the issue to garner government’s support for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) to ensure more jobs and a leaner import bill.“We’re not against modern technology, but we’ve reservations about whole scale automation. India has a surplus of manpower and it makes no sense to opt for complete automation such as countries with a low population,” Lal said.The SJM has been at the forefront of a campaign to boycott Chinese-made goods, impose anti-dumping duties on products and give financial aid to the MSME sector to compete with global brands.The SJM urged the government to come up with a strategic plan to build its economy and become less reliant on China shortly after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aatma-nirbhar-bharat-will-mean-from-made-in-india-to-made-by-india-sjm/story-xPoDoP1YG0ltjDMZ1e8f2I.html
15-05-2020||India||‘One nation, one ration card’ in Centre’s relief package for migrants||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, announcing the second tranche of the economic stimulus package, said ration cards will be made portable to allow migrant workers to access food grains across states. The ‘one nation, one ration card’ scheme will be fully operational by March 2021.Around 67 crore beneficiaries in 23 states covering 83% of PDS population will be covered by national portability by August, while complete portability will be achieved by March next year.The FM also said that eight crore migrant workers who do not have either a central or state PDS card, will get 5 kilogram of grains per person and 1 kilogram of ‘chana’ for the next two months.Earlier, the Supreme Court had asked the Centre to consider the feasibility of ‘temporarily’ adopting the one nation one ration card scheme during the ongoing coronavirus lockdown period to enable the migrant workers and economically weaker sections (EWS) get subsidised foodgrain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-nation-one-ration-card-in-centre-s-relief-package-for-migrants/story-t9QKgx4SRvKvfJGnUuHYZP.html
15-05-2020||India||Al-Qaeda statement against India over minorities reflects synergy with Pak pitch||Global terrorist group Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) has asked Indian muslims and scholars to join hands and wage jihad against India to defend against what it described as discrimination and genocide. Indian security agencies say the statement by Al-Qaeda’s Middle East wing reveals an unusual synergy between the global jihadist group and Pakistan’s Inter Services Intelligence in building a narrative that accuses New Delhi of discrimination against minorities.The statement by the terror group spotlights the Citizenship Amendment Act that fast-tracks grant of Indian nationality for undocumented migrants from six minority religious communities in Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan. The law was passed five months back, in December 2019.A senior official in the security establishment said the reference to the citizenship law was only the entry point for the global terror group to lend support to the Pakistan deep state’s shrill social media campaign to adversely influence India’s relations with the muslim-majority Gulf countries and provoke Indian muslims.“We have been tracking the social media campaign right from the start and have identified the 2,794 Twitter handles that have played the most active role to carry out this information warfare. We have been able to trace every hashtag that has been created to target India or the government over the rights of muslims and every one of them took us to an account in Pakistan,” the official said.Also Watch l Pakistan’s terror tactic amid Covid-19 crisis explained Some well-meaning people in India also get taken in by this campaign, quite like some people in the Gulf without realising the big picture,” the official said.An intelligence official said the involvement of the Al-Qaeda in Arabian Peninsula in the ISI effort could indicate an effort to build global jihad into the narrative that Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan repeatedly tried to build all of last year before the Pak ISI took charge of this project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/al-qaeda-statement-against-india-over-minorities-reflects-synergy-with-pak-pitch/story-RUlJIkXxHtqcgSeSiZ8UIL.html
15-05-2020||Today's||Covid-19 and a realisation: The migrant worker is indispensable||The Covid-19 pandemic, besides taking a toll on human life, has brought to focus the underbelly of society. The well-off segment of Chandigarh (the smug bourgeoisie), have always blamed politicians for peopling the city with ‘bhaiyas’ (pejoratively used for migrant labour) only for building their vote-banks. I have often been confronted by friends with the question, “When, for God’s sake, will you ever come out of the colonies?”When I came to Chandigarh as a college student in 1965, I saw labourers staying in temporary shacks near construction sites even in a sector like 17. Their makeshift shanties lacked amenities and their children played on the sand and gravel dumps as the parents slogged for paltry wages.Concomitant with the growth of the city, grew the need for more workers. Households and commercial establishments needed helps for diverse jobs. As those from the region did not consider it rewarding enough to shift here for low-paying manual jobs, there began an inflow of workers from other states, leading to unauthorised squatting on government land. Owners of land that was yet to be acquired found it profitable to let out rows of small plots with narrow lanes to migrant labour. A modicum of civic services such as a few toilets, water stand posts and open drains came to be provided later.REHABILITATING WORKERSWaking up to Le Corbusier’s Edict of Chandigarh being compromised by the growth of unhygienic shanties in a modern city, which by then had become a Union Territory, courtesy the wrangling states of Punjab and Haryana, the UT administration came up with schemes to build tenements or allot vacant plots in planned colonies for the rehabilitation of labourers in the peripheral areas or even within the city.Before that, it was only the ‘cheap houses’ that were built for the dhobis (washermen) or for the government sanitation staff etc. Besides this, an otherwise elaborate plan of the new city did not provide for adequate socio-economic integration in the form of general low-cost housing. The smallest size of a plot for non-government houses was four marlas (100 sq yd) in this oasis of affluence.SLUM-FREE CHANDIGARHOn getting the privilege of representing Chandigarh in the Lok Sabha in 1991, a priority I marked for myself was making the city slum-free. There was gradual progress, but it was only under a scheme of 2006 that a need of about 25,000 dwelling units was projected to achieve the zero-slum target. Funds under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM) came in adequate measure. No new squatters’ colony has sprung up since and only one colony stands on private land.The migrant labourers were, in the meantime, cursed for being a burden on others: for eating away subsidies, for paying no taxes, for making the city unclean, for generating heaps of garbage, for crime and what not! “If they work for us, they get paid for it,” has been our self-righteous attitude towards them. Analyses of the last two elections point to these people moving away from me, yet my belief in them remained unshaken.Then came this invisible micro-organism called novel coronavirus. Its spread forced a lockdown on over 130 crore Indians, including the 12 lakh plus people of Chandigarh. With just a four-hour notice, all movement of humans stopped; shops, factories, educational institutions, hotels, restaurants, theatres, cinema halls, salons, parlours, private clinics, even normal OPDs in government hospitals came to an abrupt halt.There were no vendors selling fruits and vegetables, balloons, or other knick-knacks for children in deserted streets, no maids for household chores, no access to gyms for the fitness freaks, no entry to parlours and salons or services of a beautician at home.LEFT HIGH AND DRYWe stood deprived of all services that we had so far taken for granted. The effect of the lockdown began to sink in and the importance of the role that migrant labour plays in our lives became more and more pronounced. On the other hand, the migrants, holed up in one-room tenements, losing their source of daily bread, came to the brink of starvation. With no cash in their pockets, most of them stared at starvation. In desperation, they embarked upon a trek to their places of origin, even a thousand kilometres away.Covid-fearing officials along the state borders aborted their plans. Now, the Indian Railways have started running special shramik (workers) trains to ferry the migrants desirous of rejoining their separated families. The registration centre in Sector 43 now overflows with people clamouring for a ticket back home.LOCKDOWN HIGHLIGHTS INEQUALITYTell-tale stories of agonising hardships normally highlight the inequality in a ‘welfare’ state. This only stands more pronounced during this lockdown. Yet, it has thrown up a situation where, for once, we who constitute the upper crust of society feel the pinch of having to do without the services that had been available for the asking. Only a few thousand persons, including women and children, have boarded the special trains so far, but a change is already perceptible.We now want the departing ones to stay on. They are no more a burden on society; they pay all (indirect) taxes included in the retail prices of goods that they are able to afford, they consume less and, therefore, generate less trash; their areas are not cleaned daily and, therefore, the heaps of garbage that give them company 24x7.The entrepreneurs know what the economists have said: Labour’s contribution to production is more than that of capital. For the wheel of progress to keep moving, the migrant worker is indispensable. This is the truth that Covid-19 has brought home to us.The writer is a former Union minister||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/covid-19-and-a-realisation-the-migrant-worker-is-indispensable/story-9l8uzrh29PGlceZ2f7u9GI.html
15-05-2020||Editorials||The SC should have been more proactive in tackling the migrant crisis||Besides handling the rising number of Covid-19 cases, and taking steps to mitigate the economic distress caused by the pandemic and the lockdown, the single most pressing issue for India at the moment is the fate of its migrant workers. For over 50 days now, millions of stranded workers, facing an acute shortage of food and cash, have desperately tried to return home. Tragic tales of families walking hundreds of kilometres abound. Five weeks after the lockdown was imposed, the government finally introduced measures to enable stranded migrants to return home — a process which is ongoing, but which has not stopped thousands of others from continuing to walk back home. While the political executive has been correctly held accountable for its failure in addressing the plight of migrant workers in a timely and sensitive manner, it is also important to look at the role of another institution which should have done more in this period, to address this crisis — the judiciary. On Friday, dismissing a petition which asked that the Centre be directed to identify and then provide food and shelter to migrant workers returning home, the Supreme Court said it was a matter for the states to decide. The Court, it added, could not monitor who was walking or not walking, neither could it stop them. Referring to the Aurangabad incident, where 16 migrant workers sleeping on railway tracks were mowed down by a train, the court observed that there was little that could do done if people were sleeping on the tracks. Irrespective of the merits of the petition in question, the observations fit into a larger pattern of the court’s attitude towards the issue. It has accepted the claims of the executive too willingly; it could have done more to order relief and protective measures; and it should have ensured strict court monitoring of the entire process of identification of migrant workers, provision of food and shelter either where they are based on during their travel, and their transport. To their credit, in the backdrop of workers having to wait for as long as 19 hours to board trains, the Gujarat high court observed that there was lack of coordination among government departments on the issue and asked the government to be more sensitive to the plight of the most “downtrodden, underprivileged and weaker sections of society”, and instil confidence in them. The Karnataka high court has also done well in observing that workers can’t be deprived the opportunity of travelling home because of their inability to pay fares. India’s poorest need help. The government has to do its bit. But the courts can help, with more sensitivity and direction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-sc-should-have-been-more-proactive-in-tackling-the-migrant-crisis/story-D6rNRJOEfd4TLYfUZN6kGK.html
