18-05-2020||News||An injection for reform and growth, writes Jyotiraditya Scindia||If one were to describe the magnitude of the crisis facing the world today, one could draw a parallel from Margaret Atwood’s The Year of the Flood. “The pandemic travelled through the air as if on wings, it burned through cities like fire.” The scene seems to have been planted into reality. The coronavirus has spelt disaster for global economies, supply chains, markets, trade and livelihoods.But for India, owing to bold decisions such as the nationwide lockdown, the impact in terms of lives lost has been relatively less. Credit goes to the able and decisive leadership of Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi. Without doubt, his unique, unequivocal and bold decision-making has safeguarded the interests of 1.3 billion people, and has saved thousands of lives. India’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) case fatality rate is 3.23%, compared to the global death rate of 6.92%; the recovery rate is 34.06%.In every adversity lies an opportunity. Where India stands is an inflection point, much like the 1991 economic crisis, which was a harbinger of a paradigm shift via liberalisation, privatisation and globalisation. The post-Covid-19 era will usher in unprecedented opportunities. Fortunately, India has been able to tap into these opportunities.The recently unveiled Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (self-reliant India) and the emphasis on ”Vocal for Local to Global” hit the right note with the post-Covid-19 era requiring a new orientation; a redrawing of India’s growth story that is reform-driven, and hinges on the ability to sell its indigenous capabilities to the world. First brought about by Mahatma Gandhi, it has again been made the pivot by the PM, on which reforms will pervade the five pillars — economy, infrastructure, technology-driven system, vibrant demography and demand.The government realises that this macroeconomic vision will turn into reality by strengthening the grassroots. The Rs 20 lakh crore economic stimulus, alongside big-bang systemic reforms announced by the government, is an apt opening to this vision. The envisaged impact is two-fold; first, interim measures such as liquidity infusion and direct cash transfers for the poor will work as shock absorbers for those in acute stress. The Rs 1.7 lakh crore package under the PM Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana and One Nation One Ration Card will allow 800 million marginalised Indians to maintain their nutritional intake levels — through guaranteed ration. Similarly, the decision to allocate an additional sum of Rs 40,000 crore for Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, provide a free three-month supply of gas cylinders to 83 million BPL families under the PM Ujjwala Yojna, Rs 500 ex-gratia transfer to 200 million women Jan Dhan accounts, Rs 1,000 each to senior citizens and widows, and a deposit of Rs 2,000 each to the accounts of over 80 million farmers through direct benefit transfers are commendable resuscitative steps.The second entails long-term reforms in growth-critical sectors to make them globally competitive and attractive. Together, these should not just help put India back on track as a competitive player in global markets, but also be seen as filling the void created by the pandemic and create new opportunities for growth in sectors like agriculture, micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), power, coal and mining, defence and aviation.India ranks second globally in farm outputs. It still stands to be among the largest producers of milk, fruits, and pulses. Despite the heavyweight numbers, little is processed here and India ranks fairly low in the global food processing value chains. This is an untapped growth opportunity, which is why we must build on our comparative advantage, and ramp up our competitiveness by enabling farmers to steepen the value curve of their produce. Post Covid-19, we should take the lead in the race of becoming the food factory of the world. The measures announced for the agricultural and allied sectors are particularly transformative. The new proposed law that allows inter-state trading of agricultural yield will allow farmers to leverage attractive prices and markets beyond their home state, stepping towards the One Nation One Market objective. Similarly, the proposed amendment to the Essential Commodities Act will allow private players to purchase agricultural commodities on a large scale. Moreover, measures worth $13 billion to enhance farm-gate infrastructure will go a long way in boosting farmer incomes and thus, achieving the goal of self-sustainable villages. However, these measures must be coupled with a robust digital trading platform. The government may come up with a national grid of local platforms currently operating in isolation, along with bringing credible agri-tech startups onboard. This shall also help in standardisation of quality parameters of the agricultural produce and in providing digital tools to assess quality.Like agriculture, MSMEs are collectively one of the biggest employers — with about 120 million workers on their rolls, including migrant labourers. Around 75 million MSMEs contribute to about a third of the GDP and 45% of the manufacturing output of the country. But, at the same time, they are considered by banks to be the riskiest borrowers. According to a BizFund report, only 16% of MSMEs in India get formal credit, leaving more than 80% of these companies under-financed or financed through informal sources. Therefore, a large part of the stimulus is really about activating channels of credit. The Rs 300,000 crore collateral-free loan facility for MSMEs or the Rs 30,000 crore liquidity facility for NBFCs, mortgage lenders and microfinance institutions announced in the first tranche of the package are examples.Another sector that will assume importance will be health care. Almost every country has been compelled to relook how much it spends on public health. For perspective, it is important to note that the total per capita government spending on health care has nearly doubled from Rs 1,008 per person in FY15 to Rs 1,944 in FY20. The government has decided to increase public health spending, besides other prudent measures such as establishing government diagnostic labs till the block level. While currently, this will strengthen the country’s testing capacity, for the future, it will help foster a more resilient grassroots-level health infrastructure.The recent announcements are also a testament to our government’s balanced approach in addressing concerns across sectors. For example, the newly launched PM e-Vidya programme for multi-mode access to digital online education provides a uniform learning platform for the whole nation, which shall enable schools and universities to stream courses online without further loss of teaching hours. Additionally, limiting imports of weapons and increasing the limit of foreign direct investment in defence from 49% to 74% will give a much-needed boost to the Ordnance Factory Board, while reducing India’s huge defence import bill.To establish clout overseas, we must first become a formidable unrelenting force at home. The magnitude of the problem has been huge. It’s of a size that no government in the world could have been prepared to face. However, as the curve flattens, the Centre’s revival plan is optimal and logically sound. It provides a safety net for the most vulnerable, and a “vitamin injection” to re-unleash the animal spirits of growth-critical sectors. We seem to be well on course in this pursuit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/an-injection-for-reform-and-growth-writes-jyotiraditya-scindia/story-wVcr056SLVdeDzlDdemL8K.html
18-05-2020||News||Ensuring access and equity in education, writes Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’||In his recent article, Life in the era of Covid-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi stated that the poor are often beneficiaries of the transformational impact of technology. He said that technology demolishes bureaucratic hierarchies, eliminates middlemen, and accelerates welfare measures. He spoke of technology as being transformative for education. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a slew of measures for the education sector as a part of the Rs 20 lakh crore economic package, which is intended to get the economy back on track. The key principles behind the education sector reforms are equity and access for students. She dwelt on adopting innovative curricula and pedagogies, concentrating energies in gap areas, being more inclusive and integrating technology at every stage to push human capital. Let us look at access. When I assumed charge, I focused on the gross enrolment ratio (GER) in higher education. Of the total population in the age group of 18-23, which is around 150 million, only 26.3% (37 million) are enrolled in the education system. China, which had the same GER of India in the 1990s, has brought it up to 48%. The United States is at 88% and the United Kingdom is at 60%. This calls for deep introspection. Though we have made rapid strides to increase access in the past six years, I feel that the tipping point has arrived. To create a new India, and face the immediate challenge to education posed by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), we need a paradigm shift in the manner of in which youth can access the education system. The other bedrock on which the announcements were based on is equity. In a diverse country like India, we need to look at how to provide equal opportunities for learning so that a student in a rural setting gets the same education material as that of a student in an urban one. How can we ensure that the learning outcomes of students in a certain age group or even a certain grade across society are the same? We have tried to find solutions to improve equity and access during and after the Covid-19 crisis. The PM has been firmly behind India’s trajectory of progress and development from an information society to a creative one. The Digital India campaign launched by the government has led to a digital revolution. Today, India has 504 million active Internet users, more than the population of the United States. Riding on the success of Digital India, the ministry of human resource development (MHRD) has launched a comprehensive initiative called PM e-Vidya which unifies all efforts related to digital/online/on-air education for further expansion of e-learning in higher education. In other words, we are liberalising the open, distance and online education regulatory framework. Digital learning through the PM e- Vidya and Open Distance Learning (ODL) in higher education will create equal access to teachers in integrating technology into their curriculum for students of varied geographies and backgrounds. This will ensure that no child is left untouched by the power of technology and education. We envision technology as a catalyst in bringing equity to society. The new education paradigm will take the best of the traditional classroom and digital learning to empower students and teachers as outlined in the new education policy. Equity is the cornerstone of all educational decisions, ensuring all students can thrive in the education system. The approach to equity and inclusion will be kept common across schools and higher education. The ministry of human resource development will continue to ensure equitable access to quality education, with special emphasis on socioeconomic disadvantaged groups across schools and higher education, providing each student with access to the best in learning resources, and teachers across the world. The policy’s vision includes the following key changes to the current system. One, moving towards a higher educational system consisting of large, multidisciplinary universities and colleges, with at least one in or near every district. Two, the building of free boarding facilities in the form of hostels. Three, revamping curriculum, pedagogy, assessment, and student support for enhanced student experiences across schools and higher education. Four, strengthening of open schooling. Five, a substantial increase in scholarships at private/philanthropic universities for disadvantaged and underprivileged students. Six, the creation of a gender-inclusion fund. Seven, and most important, creating a cohort of highly motivated and rigorously trained teachers for all learners.The pandemic has presented new challenges and also opportunities for our education system. India is ready and equipped to reimagine the future of digital education through PM e-Vidya while addressing the needs and rights to education for every child. This will mark an era of progress where school and higher education institutes will be enabled to foster constant innovation and become more resilient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/ensuring-access-and-equity-in-education-writes-ramesh-pokhriyal-nishank/story-KSqyOXK2zkUVpl9krJO4dP.html
18-05-2020||News||Judiciary should urgently address the delays in cases||At the best of times, the job of a constitutional court judge is largely a thankless one. There has been an exponential explosion in the litigation cases and we simply don’t have enough judges. For quite a while, there have been demands from the judiciary itself to appoint specialist court managers. With the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, cases have backed up in courts like never before. The case for court managers should be revisited now.Judgments which had been reserved but not delivered have piled up. No doubt the fact that courts cannot function as normal during the pandemic but by remote control is not helping the situation.Going through the portals of the Madras High Court, I came across a circular from 2014 vintage, issued by then chief justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul (now with the Supreme Court). In that circular, court officers before the principal bench in Chennai and Madurai were directed to mention the dates on which orders were reserved and the dates of their pronouncement. We are still awaiting the verdicts in those cases.In a move to deal with these delays, then Supreme Court judges KT Thomas and RP Sethi had said in Anil Rai vs State of Bihar (2001), that chief justices of all high courts could direct their registry to print the two crucial dates on the judgements. The other remedial measures suggested by the court included a directive by the chief justices to make it mandatory for the court officers to furnish them a monthly list of cases in which judgements were not pronounced within a month from the date on which they were reserved.The order said, “The Chief Justice may also see the desirability of circulating among the judges of the High Court for their information the state of such cases in which judgements have not been pronounced, within six weeks from the date of conclusion of arguments. Such communication should be conveyed as confidential and in a sealed cover. If the judges do not pronounce judgement even after three months, the parties in the case could be permitted to file an application with a prayer for an early order, and such an application should be listed before the judges within two days. If the judgement, for any reason, is not pronounced within six months, any of the parties shall be entitled to move an application before the Chief Justice with a prayer to withdraw the case and make it over to any other Bench for fresh arguments. It is open to the Chief Justice to grant the prayer or pass any other order as he deems fit.”The delays are not merely an issue of logistics. The present Chief Justice of the Madras High Court, AP Sahi, has issued a circular making available “personal staff” to the judges at all times. And papers which may be logically within the heritage building are available for transit, if required. This means there will be ready access to the relevant papers and personal assistance in the case of video conferencing. The virus may have delayed things, but the problem will not go away with the end of the pandemic.In July, 2019, then Chief Justice Vijaya Tahilramani, had said that the E-Courts website and National Judicial Data Grid are the most accessed websites and that the proceedings of all cases are being uploaded on this. She indicated that parties concerned were sending petitions/letters over the delay in pronouncement of orders, after reserving the cases. Hence she felt that it was expedient to proceed with the cases without any delay. When causes are reserved for judgments/orders, she felt that the same has to be pronounced at the earliest by keeping in mind the directions of the Supreme Court.We have seen how the UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath has by an ordinance suspended 35 labour legislations for three calendar years to boost the economy. It has been a matter of debate among advisors to policymakers that in the face of inordinate judicial delays and the institution’s inability to clear the backlog of reserved judgments, it may be required for the Centre or state to take the ordinance route to bring closure to some litigations in which national interest may be at stake. This does not augur well for the judiciary. It is better for the judiciary to set its own house in order when it comes to delays and use the technology that is available to it today to speed things along.Narasimhan Vijayaraghavan is an advocate in the Madras High CourtThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/judiciary-should-urgently-address-the-delays-in-cases/story-7tPd7qeZneoZS1W4fremNK.html
18-05-2020||News||The economic package unpacked | Opinion||The announcement by Prime Minister Narendra Modi of an economic policy package amounting to Rs 20 lakh crore, described by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman as a stimulus, to counteract the impact of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has turned out to be a case of flattering to deceive. It had been received with shock and awe as it had appeared substantial and bold. Even though it had been stated that the package included the financial counterpart of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI)’s measures and the government’s outlay under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana in March, the assessment was that the resulting stimulus would yet be substantial. The details, however, were revealed days later, and there is widespread disappointment at the contents. There is now shock that given the severity of the crisis, the central government has done so little after having remained silent for over seven weeks. Before the details were announced, the guessing game had been to figure out the allocation of the enhanced fiscal outlay assumed to be coming. This is because the economic impact of government spending will vary, depending upon whether it is used to rebuild Lutyens Delhi, build roads and bridges in the four corners of the country and in its middle, recapitalise public sector banks or retire public debt. Now that the contents of the economic package are public knowledge, this has turned out to have been a futile exercise. There will be negligible additional spending by the government. Over and above the commitments already made by the government and RBI, the largest item in the package is a provision of Rs 3 lakh crore to guarantee loans to the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector to be made by commercial banks. While this is creative from a financial viewpoint, it is similar to RBI’s existing liquidity-enhancing initiatives. Thus, a little over half the package comprises liquidity provision, by RBI and the Government of India, and the government’s relief package of March 26. The rest is a ragbag of funds aimed at various sectors of the economy. These, such as the proposal aimed at expanding infrastructure for agriculture, cannot be faulted, but their impact may reasonably be expected only in the medium-term. The provision of loans amounting to Rs 90,000 crore from power public sector units to distribution companies in the electricity sector is imaginative too, but it remains a supply side intervention. The guarantee for bank lending to the MSME sector, its largest and most applauded part, best demonstrates the unbalanced nature of the package. Though important in terms of employment, the sector is dependent on the rest of the economy for its market. Unless the rest of the domestic economy is revived, the MSME sector may face a shortage of demand, and its production may soon sputter to a close. It is for this reason that an economic package for the economy emerging out of the lockdown requires a stimulus enhancing demand across the economy. The best way to have done this would have been to spend on infrastructure. Infrastructure spending uniquely creates structures that raise productivity and extends spending power to the section of the population most affected by the lockdown, namely daily wage labourers. The crucial difference is that while liquidity infusion in the form of credit is an input made available, a stimulus is an injection into the income stream. The substantial increase in the allocation for the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme is a stimulus all right, but cannot, by itself, make much difference.The lockdown has lowered aggregate demand, and a fiscal stimulus is needed. However, much of what we have seen by way of a policy response is something akin to a “backstop” in finance. This is unequal to the task of reviving an economy that has experienced a shock valued at around Rs 28 lakh crore, the estimated direct loss of output during seven weeks of lockdown. Only a fiscal stimulus of approximately Rs 20 lakh crore could have achieved this in relatively quick time. Many observers, including this writer, had imagined the package announced on May 11 to be just that stimulus. We have been proven wrong. The conclusion is that the government is keen on signalling fiscal prudence by sticking as far as possible to the deficit in the budget announced. We can now see that behind the finance ministry’s announcement last week that it is raising the public borrowing limit for the financial year is the reality that the government’s revenues are set to fall behind its expenditure, and not any preparation for the stimulus to come. This is mere rearguard action rather than acting on the imperatives of the present. Now that the government’s package is unpacked, we may surmise that the adverse economic impact of the lockdown will last longer than the lockdown itself. This because of the likely presence of hysteresis effects in market economies, whereby low output today depresses production for some time into the future. The missing plan for economic revival is a governance failure. By declaring the lockdown, the State took away access to livelihood. Even if this was done to save lives, the social contract behoves the State to restore the livelihoods lost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-economic-package-unpacked/story-LSDlrCCCU2NWcNE18e9AZP.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||22-year-old man stabbed to death in Karnal, four booked||A 22-year-old man was stabbed to death during a clash that ensued over a disputed land in Sheikhpura Suhana village of Karnal district, police said on Monday. The victim has been identified as Paramjeet Singh of the same village, who used to till fields for farmers. As per the police, the incident took place on Sunday evening as members of two groups claimed possession of a disputed land. Members of one group sent Paramjeet to plough the land, which agitated the members of the rival group and they allegedly attacked him with sharp-edged weapons. Paramjeet was rushed to Karnal medical college, from where he was referred to PGIMER in Chandigarh, but he succumbed on the way.Baljeet Singh, in-charge of Karnal’s Sadar police station, said on the complaint of victim’s family members, an FIR has been registered under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code against Parveen Kumar, Rajesh, Saksham and Bhima.He said an investigation was on and the accused will soon be arrested. Paramjeet’s body has been handed over to his family members after autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/22-year-old-man-stabbed-to-death-in-karnal-four-booked/story-yeEbDttBdJd8hy8o47IvBI.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||Four DCs transferred in Haryana||Haryana government on Monday transferred deputy commissioners (DCs) of Sonepat, Panipat, Fatehabad and Charkhi Dadri, while shuffling 11 IAS officers. Charkhi Dadri DC SL Poonia was posted as Sonepat DC, replacing Anshaj Singh, who was transferred as director, housing for all department and chief administrator, housing board.Confed managing director (MD) Shiv Parshad was posted as Charkhi Dadri DC.Panipat DC Hema Sharma was transferred as MD, Haryana Backward Classes and Economically Weaker Sections’ Welfare Corporation, replacing Sanjeev Verma. Additional municipal commissioner, Faridabad, Dharmendra Singh was posted as Panipat DC.Fatehabad DC Ravi Prakash Gupta was transferred as director general, Swarn Jayanti Haryana Institute of Fiscal Management, replacing Vikas Gupta. Gupta was posted as director, MSME. Haryana seeds development corporation MD Narhari Bangar was posted as Fatehabad DC. Sanjeev Verma replaced Bangar as MD, seeds development corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-dcs-transferred-in-haryana/story-647hXdArMfrIdGPimglPZP.html
18-05-2020||Mumbai||BMC to reserve 520 ICU beds at private hospitals||As the Covid-19 cases in Mumbai increased to almost 20,000, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to reserve 520 intensive care unit (ICU) beds at private hospitals for Covid patients. This will increase the total ICU bed strength in the city to 1,020.“At present, we have around 500 ICU beds for Covid-19 patients. But considering the growing number of cases, we have initiated talks with private hospitals to include another 520 ICU beds under our capacity. This will help to increase the total ICU bed strength to 1,020 in Mumbai,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner (health), BMC.After receiving several complaints that private hospitals were overcharging patients, BMC has decided to keep the billing of referred patients under its hold. “Private hospitals will not directly provide bills to patients. BMC will decide on the bill. Though, we are yet to take some decision on it,” said Kakani.Despite the increase in beds, medical experts claim that this is not sufficient to cater to the patients in Mumbai. The city requires at least 4,000 ICU beds. “The next 20 days are very crucial for us. We are expecting that in this period, we may have to arrange ICU beds for around 6,000 patients. At present, only seven to eight patients out of 100 require ICU facilities,” said Dr Om Srivastava, city-based epidemiologist.Around 5% of the total Covid patients in Maharashtra are critically ill. “We don’t know how long patients will occupy beds so we have to be prepared with additional beds so that we don’t face a shortage,” said Srivastava.According to experts, not all patients infected with the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, require ICU beds. Almost 80% of them only require oxygen support for breathing difficulties. Taking note of this, BMC has decided to increase beds with oxygen facilities to at least 3,000.The civic body is also planning to install 250 high dependency units (HDUs) in makeshift structures. HDUs are wards for people who need more intensive observation, treatment, and nursing care than is possible in a general ward, but slightly less than that given in intensive care.BMC inaugurated 800 beds with oxygen supply, 200 normal beds and 50 HDU beds at the MMRDA ground in Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC). The care centre is expecting another 100 more beds by May 25. At the National Sports Club of India (NSCI) facility, BMC will install 600 beds with oxygen and 50 HDU beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-to-reserve-520-icu-beds-at-private-hospitals/story-LPEbw8Ada4YPVU1k3tJQTN.html
18-05-2020||Mumbai||1.61 lakh stranded migrants sent back home; Mumbai Police say urgent need for more trains||The Mumbai Police, till Monday, sent 161,261 stranded people, most of them migrant labourers, back to their home states, while over 3 lakh are still on the waiting list. Pranaya Ashok, DCP (ops) and Mumbai Police spokesperson confirmed the updated figures.Mumbai Police fears the exercise of sending back stranded people may take more than a month if the number of trains is not increased significantly this month.“Many have left on foot without registering with us as they see registered people getting frustrated waiting for several days; hence more trains are needed. Another issue is, we need over a thousand people in one group for one train, otherwise, we have to make them wait till we reach that figure,” said a senior police officer.One of the deputy commissioners of Mumbai, who acts as a nodal officer, said, “The response from Uttar Pradesh has been good so far but West Bengal (WB) needs to provide more trains. The WB government has given just eight trains to Mumbai when more than double that amount is needed.”“The task of sending the migrants back is tedious and a lot of logistical movement is involved. We have to arrange their travel right from their residence until the railway station while ensuring we maintain social distancing. Also, there is a waiting time of six hours. The documentation and identity of every migrant are checked because tomorrow if he/she turns positive, then the documentation will be crucial for contact tracing,” added the officer.651 positive in Mumbai PoliceThe Mumbai Police has reported 651 cases so far. Among all police stations, JJ Marg (46 cases) and Sahar police station (26 cases) are the worst hit. This is followed by police stations with 10 to 20 cases – Agripada (11), Dharavi (19), Nagpada (11), Nirmal Nagar (14), Pydhonie (13), Shahu Nagar (11), Shivaji Nagar (11), Vakola (12), and Wadala (17).Apart from police stations, there have been several cases in other branches of Mumbai Police as well. Local arms reported 134 cases, traffic (26), protection and security (20), motor vehicle department (16), quick response team (12), crime branch (11), and eight each in the special branch and economic offenses wing (EOW). The police stations which have five to 10 cases are Byculla (6), Chembur (8), Cuffe Parade (6), Dadar (5), Deonar (5), Ghatkopar (6), Juhu (7), Kurla (8), LT Marg (10), MRA Marg (6), Mankhurd (5), Matunga (5), NM Joshi Marg (7), Powai (7), Sakinaka(6), Samtanagar (5), Santacruz (6), Sewri (5), VP Road (5), Wadala TT (5), Worli (5)and Yellow Gate (8).The remaining police stations have less than five cases. Police stations with no cases of Covid-19 are Airport, Andheri, Charkop, Dahisar, Gorai, Jogeshwari, Kalachawki, Kanjurmarg, MHB Colony, Malabar Hill, Malvani, Nehru Nagar, Pant Nagar, RCF, Shivaji Park, Versova, Vikhroli, Sagri-2 and Cyber police station.Cop arranges ambulance for senior citizen with Covid 19 A 28-year-old woman on Sunday who lives in an SRA building in Malad (East) was unable to find an ambulance for her 61-year-old father who had tested positive for Covid-19. She then rushed to a nakabandi at 11.30pm where PSI Swapnil Patil of Dindoshi police station called the control room and managed to get an ambulance to take the senior citizen to SevenHills Hospital where he is now being treated.43 booked, 25 arrested on Sunday Mumbai Police on Sunday lodged 31 FIRs against 43 people, arresting 25 of them for lockdown violations. Of the 31 FIRs, 19 are for gathering, six for unnecessary use of vehicles, four against shops, and two for not wearing masks. Ten FIRs each were registered in the central and west regions, alongside nine in the south region.Man accused of domestic violence, booked for not wearing mask Sakinaka police booked a 37-year-old man for not wearing a mask after he turned up at the police station as his wife had accused him of domestic violence. According to the police, on May 15 the accused’s wife complained against him at Zarimari beat chowky that he assaulted her when she asked him to pay attention to their one-year-old daughter. The accused was asked to come to police chowky but he turned up without a mask and was booked for the violation.1, 273 in state police positive for Covid 19A total of 1, 273 have tested positive for Covid-19 in Maharashtra Police, of which a maximum of 1,142 are constables while the remaining are officers. Of the total infected, 971 are being treated and 291 have recovered. A total of 11 personnel have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/1-61-lakh-stranded-migrants-sent-back-home-mumbai-police-say-urgent-need-for-more-trains/story-9CF9ip4Yp74xR0znUsLETL.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||126 Punjab civic bodies’ terms over, polls not likely till Sept||Even as the terms of nine municipal corporations and 117 municipal councils and notified area committees in Punjab came to an end between March 8 and April 26, the elections to these urban local bodies are likely to go beyond August in view of the Covid-19 outbreak.The government has appointed administrators to run the operations of the bodies, including the Mohali, Bathinda, Moga, Batala, Hoshiarpur, Phagwara, Kapurthala and Pathankot municipal corporations. Punjab has a total of 167 urban local bodies.The state government in February had announced that civic body polls will held in June and July. “We have appointed officers as administrators so that the work is not affected. There no denying an uncertainty over the poll schedule,” said local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra.As per the Municipal Corporation Act, 1911, the civic bodies must go to the polls within six months of expiry of their term. This means the administrators cannot function beyond six months.While Bathinda, Moga and Mohali had mayors owing allegiance to the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), Phagwara, Pathankot and Hoshiarpur had mayors linked to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Civic bodies of Abohar, Kapurthala and Batala were also given the status of municipal corporation but they are still to get an elected body as the delimitation of wards is underway.Most of the councils and notified area committees, whose term has ended, have presidents and a majority of members from the SAD-BJP as they went to the polls when the alliance was in power in Punjab.Mohali mayor Kulwant Singh on being contacted said 250 development works proposed by the MC awaited clearance from the local bodies department.“Now, the government will push the development works. The Congress government wants to take credit for the works which were planned by us,” he said.“We are not biased against anyone. In the wake of coronavirus outbreak, sanitation was a huge challenge. We kept all cities and towns clean,” said minister Mohindra.“Since life is coming back to normal I will ask request the minister in-charge to hold a meeting on further course of action,” said rural development and panchayats minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, who is part of a committee constituted by the CM to decide on the civic body polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/126-punjab-civic-bodies-terms-over-polls-not-likely-till-sept/story-aOydwnMtpGc7DpsbtWMtBI.html
18-05-2020||Mumbai||MU releases gradation formula for non-traditional courses||Almost 10 days after the state minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant announced that all university students except those in the final year will be promoted to the next academic year, the University of Mumbai (MU) released a circular clarifying names of courses for which examination will be conducted in July 2020.However, for those waiting for clarity on when the final year exams will be held, duration of these exams as well as the 50-50% gradation formula for promoting first and second year students will have to wait longer. “A committee is still looking into these issues. We are trying to base a simple promotion formula for students from traditional courses as well, and the same will be announced soon,” said Vinod Patil, controller of examination, MU. He added that the exam timetable and duration of exams for final year students will be announced later.The education minister in his brief earlier this month had requested state universities to schedule all final year exams between July 1 and 30, however, he added that in case the current lockdown situation extends beyond June 30, another meeting will be held to decide the future of final year students.“We’ve been told that between June 20 and 25 there’ll be a final call on the status of final year exams, so until then, we want students to focus on their studies and not worry about anything else,” said an official from MU.The circular also said that students with allowed-to-keep-term (ATKT) remarks in their previous semesters will be promoted to the next academic year. “Instead of wasting another academic year, these students are being given a chance to get promoted to the next year, provided they clear these subjects within 120 days of the start of the 2020-21 academic year,” states the university circular. It further highlights that ATKT exams for final year students will also be scheduled to take place between July 1 and 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mu-releases-gradation-formula-for-non-traditional-courses/story-RIhetGz7FXHiJXttwVYmYM.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||Will act against schools not following fee collection norms: Chandigarh admn to HC||The Chandigarh administration on Monday assured the Punjab and Haryana high court that it would act against schools not following norms for collection and charging of fee.The assurance in this regard was made by UT’s senior standing counsel Pankaj Jain during resumed hearing of a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by a Chandigarh resident, Nitin Goyal. In the PIL, he had sought directions to the administration to take a balanced decision regarding charging of school fees on the basis of financial status of each school after getting their balance sheets and income and expenditure accounts examined.He had alleged that most of the private schools have failed to upload their balance sheets on their websites even though the Fee Regulatory Act has been in force in Chandigarh since April 2018. The Act mandates while deciding or increasing the fee of each school, the financial status and its expenditure are required to be considered, the court was told.The UT administration and 77 private schools are at loggerheads over fee collection issue. The UT in March had barred schools from collecting fee for the 2020-21 session in view of the Covid-19 outbreak, a decision challenged by schools in the HC. Schools have stopped salary payment to teachers claiming that they do not have funds. The UT had asked them to upload balance sheets, which most schools are yet to put in public domain. Now, the UT has to take a call whether schools be allowed to charge certain amount or not.The HC bench of chief justice RS Jha and justice Arun Palli, which heard the case on Monday, has disposed it of while granting liberty to the petitioner to approach the administration with complaints if any, against violation by any school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/will-act-against-schools-not-following-fee-collection-norms-chandigarh-admn-to-hc/story-uRjjx80jO9OGv22dDjff6M.html
18-05-2020||Mumbai||Thackeray’s ward crosses 1000-case mark; city’s daily average is now 915||The H-East ward, which covers Bandra East, Khar and Santacruz and houses CM Uddhav Thackeray’s family, crossed the 1,000-mark with 1,138 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, within 10 days of crossing the 500 mark.Six other wards – G-North (Dharavi, Dadar, Mahim), G-South (Worli, Prabhadevi), K-West (Andheri west, Oshiwara, Jogeshwari), L (Kurla) and FN (Wadala, Antop Hill and Matunga) – have crossed the mark.According to the figures provided to the elected representatives by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the H-East ward recorded 1,138 cases on Sunday, up from 1,064 cases on Saturday and 595 cases 10 days ago. It had 269 cases on April 26. According to the BMC’s figure of May 13, the doubling rate of the ward is 9.7 days.The ward was one of the first in the city to start door-to-door survey to identify suspects. The authorities are identifying senior citizens for comorbidities, and referring them for further treatment.Tulip Miranda, a Congress corporator from H-East ward, said, “Contact-tracing is being done properly, but the food distribution work can improve. Too many people require the aid, but the BMC can’t reach everyone. Since April 1, I am distributing 1,000 food packets daily to the needy.”On Monday, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) handed over a 1,000-bed makeshift hospital built on MMRDA grounds in BKC to the BMC in the presence of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. The hospital will have a quarantine facility for those who test positive and a facility for isolation, testing, X-ray and ECG. It will act as dedicated health care centre (DCHC) for Covid-19 patients. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal on Sunday said the BMC will start shifting patients to the facility by Wednesday. Local Congress MLA Zeeshan Siddique has demanded that preference be given to locals.Meanwhile, the daily average of cases being reported in Mumbai has gone up to 915 between May 11 and May 17, compared to the daily average of 670 from May 4-10. The daily average deaths have also risen to 32.28 from 23.4 in May 4-10 period. Between May 4 and May 10, 4,691 cases were reported with 164 deaths, and between May 11 to May 17, 6,411 cases were reported in Mumbai with 226 deaths.The highest number of cases (1,595) was reported on Sunday, followed by the highest single-day deaths on May 16 (41).The state has projected that Maharashtra would see the peak in the number of cases by June-end. The BMC is ready for a projection of over 50,000 cases in Mumbai in three weeks. It is in the process of getting 1,000 beds ready. Chahal had on Sunday said, “We have decided to have the number of beds in surplus compared to the projection. We are not going for playgrounds or open space due to the upcoming monsoon, but we will largely tap into the available parking lots.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thackeray-s-ward-crosses-1000-case-mark-city-s-daily-average-is-now-915/story-770CIBhaq4HhRRTgQItOOM.html
18-05-2020||Mumbai||100-bed Covid facility set up at Umerkhadi||A 100-bed quarantine facility at Najam Baug in Umerkhadi in a south Mumbai has been set up by former Union minister and senior Congress leader Milind Deora along with Anant University and Habitat for Humanity.The quarantine facility has been handed over to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).Another 250-bed quarantine facility is being set up at St Xavier’s High School near Metro Cinema. This quarantine facility is also being set up by Deora along with the Godrej Group and is expected to be ready by next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/100-bed-covid-facility-set-up-at-umerkhadi/story-ag71OEAf42V10gTrdFw7EO.html
18-05-2020||City||Red pen entry to be made in revenue record of farmers burning wheat straw: Ludhiana deputy commissioner||As per the directions received from the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB), red pen entries will be made in the revenue records ‘girdawari’ of farmers who burn wheat straw/stubble, Ludhiana deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said on Monday. “One such entry has already been made in the revenue record of a farmer. In 45 different cases, a fine of Rs 1.55 lakh has been imposed on the farmers who have burnt the wheat straw,” he said. The DC also said that PPCB has adopted a strict approach this time and directions in this regard have been issued to all the patwaris concerned. “It will be mentioned in the record that the said farmer has burnt wheat straw so that it remains a permanent record. In the future, such farmers will not be able to avail the government benefits,” he said.178 STUBBLE BURNING CASES IN DISTRICT SO FAR PPCB superintending engineer Sandeep Behal said that till May 16, a total of 178 cases of the burning of wheat straw were reported in Ludhiana district, adding that sub-divisional teams were immediately rushed to the spot for checking. A first information report under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against one such farmer, he said. Meanwhile, DC Agrawal appealed to the residents that if they notice any stubble burning incident, they should bring it to the notice of the officials concerned so that action can be taken against the violators. Several officials have been deployed to keep a check on the malpractice, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/red-pen-entry-to-be-made-in-revenue-record-of-farmers-burning-wheat-straw-ludhiana-deputy-commissioner/story-vzvEuxm5D8Dm0cL72dzVNN.html
18-05-2020||Mumbai||Amitabh Gupta reinstated, will also head panel for migrants||After 37 days, senior IPS officer Amitabh Gupta was reinstated to his original position as principal secretary (special) of the state home department and is also appointed as head of a committee formed to assist police stations in Mumbai to compile a list of migrant workers willing to go back to their respective states. The committee is also expected to provide staff from various government departments to the police stations for compiling and uploading the list on the government website. Gupta was sent on compulsory leave on April 10 after it was found that he facilitated the travel of Diwan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL) promoters Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan by issuing a letter last month. A fact-finding committee headed by Manoj Saunik, additional chief secretary, finance, in its report found that the senior official exceeded his jurisdiction and had no authority to issue such a letter. It further stated that the mala fide intention could not be established as it needed further probe by a proper investigation agency. The report also recommended that even if the state government accepted his explanation, he should be warned and given cautionary advice to check the background of the person before extending any such help.Amitabh Gupta had accepted that the letter was issued by him. He admitted that he should not have issued it, but insisted that it was done on humanitarian grounds, stated the probe report.On Monday, a three-member committee was been formed to assist the police staff in compiling the list of migrants who wants to undertake travel to their respective states and other related works. The committee is headed Gupta along with Vinay Chaube, joint commissioner of police, Mumbai and Rahul Kulkarni, deputy secretary, general administration department, states the order issued by chief secretary Ajoy Mehta. “The committee will provide required additional manpower for assisting the local police station in Mumbai city for compiling, collating uploading and processing the data in the National Migrant Information System (NMIS) portal of Government of India. As per the requirement, the committee will requisite and deploy manpower (age less than 40 years) from Mantralaya and other field officials of various government departments. All the head of the department shall assist and provide manpower as requisitioned by the said committee as emergency essential services till May 31,” it states further.“Gupta resumed charge as principal secretary on Saturday. He, however, was also warned of not repeating any such action in the future,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.The Wadhawan family comprising 23 members travelled to Mahabaleshwar, bypassing sealed district borders aided by a letter given by Gupta on his letterhead as the principal secretary (special), home department amid national lockdown. This led to a controversy as the opposition parties raised questions on whose orders the letter was issued. Kapil and Dheeraj are accused in DHFL scam and had been issued non-bailable warrants by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The family, along with other outsiders, had travelled from Khandala to Mahabaleshwar in their cars even when the borders of Satara and Pune districts were sealed amid the lockdown.Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) sought a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) inquiry into the reinstatement of Gupta as well as the entire Wadhawan incident. Leader of Opposition, Devendra Fadnavis said, “Amitabh Gupta, who had given a transit pass to CBI accused Wadhawans has been re-instated on his post. At that time also I had said that such a pass cannot be given by official on his own unless important politicians in the government give such a signal or ask him to do so. His reinstatement makes it clear that some important people who run the government ensured Wadhawans got the transit pass. We want this entire incident to be inquired by the CBI.’’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/amitabh-gupta-reinstated-will-also-head-panel-for-migrants/story-Qix4Qy9zwBc4RBJTkJ10BN.html
18-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra may adopt Kerala Covid containment plan: Tope||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Monday said that steps taken by Kerala to contain the spread of coronavirus in the southern state can be adopted here. Tope held a meeting via video conferencing wither Kerala health minister K Shailaja to understand the policies of Kerala in dealing with Covid-19.“We wanted to understand their steps and policies to contain the spread. The population, density, geography, and social composition of Kerala is different from Maharashtra, but we will see if we can adapt the practices of Kerala health department here,” Tope said in a statement. In Kerala, people with comorbidities or people who had diabetes, high blood pressure, heart diseases, bladder issue, etc, were not allowed to step out of their homes. Besides, the state also roped-in famous personalities from the state to boost the morale of the doctors, nurses, and other health care workers. The state government would look to implement these measures in hotspots; however, no decision has been taken yet.The two ministers spoke about Kerala’s isolation policy, daily testing, measures taken to contain the spread of Covid-19 in slums, help of private doctors, curbs in containment zones, plasma therapy, etc, during their meeting that lasted about an hour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-may-adopt-kerala-covid-containment-plan-tope/story-KXbXajT3LqFVGUiQNBb5sN.html
18-05-2020||Mumbai||Hospitals have no beds, allege Chembur and Govandi residents||Despite Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) claims of setting up thousands of beds in its facilities, the situation on the ground highlights a cruel reality. Many patients have been turned away by civic hospitals and some have even lost lives during their struggle to find a bed.A family from Chembur said that they visited five hospitals to get their kin admitted as she had clear symptoms of Covid-19, however, no hospital agreed to admit her. Later, she succumbed to the infection. “I never felt so helpless. I did when I could not save my mother. I was ready to put in all money from my savings, but no hospital was ready to admit her,” said Shyam Alhat, a resident of Gaikwad Nagar in Chembur.He said, “My 62-year-old mother had a recurring fever since May 1 and we visited three municipal hospitals and two private hospitals. I stood in the queues for four to five hours in every hospital with my ailing mother and all of them just gave medicines and sent us home. She died at home after four days. She could have been saved,”Meanwhile, BMC’s data states that the city has over 35,000 bed capacity in its Covid Care Centre -2 (CCC-2) facilities and over 24,000 bed capacity in its CCC1 facilities. While a CCC-2 is meant for quarantining mild symptomatic and asymptomatic Covid-19 positive patients, CCC1 is for high-risk contacts and those awaiting test results. Apart from this, there are 475 ICU beds and nearly 4200 beds in dedicated Covid hospitals.In another similar incident, a 38-year-old patient from Govandi could not find a bed for four days and was turned away from every BMC hospital he approached. Deepak Parchapa, brother of the deceased, said, “My elder brother suddenly developed Covid symptoms and we rushed him to Rajawadi hospital on May 3. The medical staff informed us that there were no beds. We went to Sion Hospital and then to Kasturba. There they asked us to visit Sir JJ Hospital. We moved from one hospital to the other for two days while my brother’s health condition worsened.” Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar said, “Majority of the beds of Covid patients are full. However, we are continuously scaling up the bed capacity. Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) today handed over 1,200 bed facility set up at BKC. Also, an online dashboard for bed availability for public is being discussed and a proper management of beds will be executed in the coming days.”Even as BMC claims to have set up various facilities and scaled up the total bed capacity, local representatives say that there is a lack of management in place to accommodate these patients in the hospital. Abhijeet Samant, BJP corporator from Andheri, said, “Almost every day we come across cases where citizens are unable to find a bed for days. Unless we make calls to the ward office or hospital’s medical staff, the patient is not admitted.” Samant added that the helpline where people can inquire for beds does not work at all. He said, “It is complete chaos on the ground.”Pointing out the mismanagement of hospital beds in the city, Maharashtra leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis tweeted, “I am constantly getting calls from relatives of patients in Mumbai telling me that how they are not getting admission in any of the hospitals and have to run from pillar to post.” Fadnavis urged the state government to create a dashboard for bed availability and put it up in the public domain. He further said in the tweet, “I request the State Government to create a dashboard for bed availability and put it in the public domain so that everyone knows in which hospital should they go for admission and treatment based on the availability of beds.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hospitals-have-no-beds-allege-chembur-and-govandi-residents/story-kiQietaBxIUi9T0mMePJCN.html
18-05-2020||City||Woman shot in Dadri, kin allege murder for dowry||Police have arrested the husband of a 26-year-old woman and two of his brothers for allegedly murdering the woman for dowry in Dadri’s Escort Colony. According to police officials, the incident came to light after the police control room received a call from a hospital around 11 am.“It seems like the woman had been shot and then taken to the hospital by the suspects themselves, where she was declared brought dead. The hospital then called up the police and a team was rushed to the spot from where the woman’s body was sent for an autopsy,” said Vrinda Shukla, deputy commissioner of police, women safety.The woman was identified as Rachna Sharma, who had married Dadri resident Vipin Sharma in 2014. The couple has a three-year-old son. Rachna was a native of Aurangabad in Bulandshahr. The woman’s family alleged that she was murdered by her in-laws and filed a complaint.Police officials said that the woman’s family in their complaint have alleged that she was being tortured by her in-laws for dowry.On Monday, before the incident, they alleged that there had been a fight at home after which the husband’s younger brother allegedly shot the woman. The family then took her to a private hospital in Greater Noida from where police received the call.Based on the family’s complaint, a case of dowry death is being registered at Dadri police station against the husband, his two brothers and his paternal uncle.“The husband and his two brothers have been taken into custody while a probe in the matter is underway,” said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-shot-in-dadri-kin-allege-murder-for-dowry/story-sn61kbBYjqkFdf8wTGIJMM.html
18-05-2020||Noida||Fire in high-rise, residents allege faulty equipment||A fire broke out in front of a flat on the 23rd floor of a high-rise in Sector 137 early Monday morning. The cause of the fire remains unknown. There was no casualty in the incident, officials of the fire department said.The incident took place around 5am at Paras Tierea society, after which two fire tenders rushed to the spot, the officials said.“An elderly couple lives in the house. They had to be rescued through the adjacent flat as the fire broke out in front of their house, blocking the exit. The cause of the fire is not clear as of now, but it seems to be an electrical fault,” chief fire officer (CFO) Arun Kumar Singh said.The officials identified the couple as Nand Kishor Sharma (65) and his wife Kiran (61), who sustained a sprain in her leg during the incident. While they escaped almost unhurt, the house was completely gutted.The residents of the high-rise were very appreciative of the timely response by two security guards, one stationed at the tower and the other patrolling the society.“The tower guard jumped from the adjacent flat’s balcony to the balcony of the burning flat and helped the couple escape. The guards’ brave and prompt action saved the day and we will reward them,” Vikas Khosla, the general manager of the society, said.The incident has highlighted the lack of preparedness to battle high-rise fires in Noida. Firemen had to rescue the couple from within the building and the fire also had to be controlled that way. However, the fire broke out on the 23rd floor, while the hydraulic platform with the department was only 42 metres high (approximately 14 floors).The CFO also said that the society’s firefighting equipment took a while to become operational after a while, and although that led to a delay, the fire was brought under control within an hour.Residents, however, alleged that the society’s system was faulty.“My wife woke me up around 4.30am saying that there was smoke in the house. We immediately rushed downstairs and by then we could hear people in the other flat shouting for help. We alerted the tower guard who manually raised a fire alarm—there was no automatic fire alarm. The entrance to the house had a grill door, so the guard went in through the adjacent house, which was empty. We could see smoke coming out of the main door but no water, indicating that the sprinklers had not worked. Also, out of 20 fire cylinders that were used, only 2-3 worked. Even the hydraulic system finally used to get the fire under control started working only after a while. We were lucky that the fire neither spread nor were there any casualties. But it was a near-miss. A few more minutes and the situation could have been much worse,” NJ Mattoo, a resident of the flat above the one that was burnt, said.The society staff, however, said that the equipment was working.“We don’t know the cause of the fire yet, but it seems to have originated in the storeroom. They had a piped gas connection so there was no cylinder in the house. We helped control the fire as soon as possible and all our equipment was working,” the facilities manager, Hari Om Kashyap, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/fire-in-high-rise-residents-allege-faulty-equipment/story-RKgHGINp9GIXVKg1Q2rtfK.html
18-05-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Sampling centre to be shifted out of L2 Covid hospital||The district health department has planned to shift the Covid-19 sampling centre of the Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital, which is an L-2 category dedicated Covid hospital and is currently treating 21 cases of Covid-19 positive patients, who have arrived within the last three days.“The hospital area is now a highly infectious zone and a containment area. So, we have planned to shift the sampling centre to our quarantine centre at Govindpuram. Due to the arrival of Covid patients, we did not call suspected cases to the sampling centre on Monday, while Sunday was an off day. It was only on Saturday that suspected patients came to the facility despite the presence of Covid patients,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO).“As per the protocol, it is not advised to have sampling centre at a Covid treatment facility. We have two other quarantine centres, where sampling of suspected cases, as well as the entry of the general public, are allowed. The two are at RKGIT College on Delhi Meerut Road, and at the engineering college in Dasna. There are norms that those giving samples should stay in home quarantine till their reports are received,” CMO added.The UP government has come up with a three-tier dedicated Covid hospital system across the state. The L-1 category hospitals are meant for Covid-19 positive patients having no complications while the L-2 category hospitals are meant for patients who have moderate complications. The L-3 category hospitals are meant for admission of patients requiring critical care.The CMO further added that there was a recent case when a man from Bihar had come for sampling in Ghaziabad and his reports turned positive. “We searched for him but the man had fled to Bihar while giving us a fake address in Ghaziabad. So, it will now be mandatory for all those who give samples to remain in home quarantine till the reports are received. Their proper identification and addresses will also be maintained,” CMO added.Meanwhile, residents’ welfare association (RWA) of Kaushambi Apartments served a legal notice to the district magistrate, CMO and other officials for their alleged inaction to seal and take up proper sanitisation of a residential building, from where a Covid-19 positive case was reported on May 15.“Ever since the case came to light on May 15, we have been requesting the officials for proper sanitization of the building, apart from taking up sampling of close contacts of the patients. But there was no response from officials. We had no option left but to serve the officials concerned a legal notice. Our right to life has been violated by the inaction on part of the officials.So we informed them through a legal notice that we will be moving to Supreme Court in a petition,” said VK Mittal, president of KARWA.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not respond to calls and messages over the issue. “We have taken up sanitisation of the building and sealing order has been issued for the building at Kaushambi. On Monday we have three more positive cases, which has taken our tally to 189. The three cases are from Loni, Kadkad Model and Pasonda in Sahibabad,” the CMO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-sampling-centre-to-be-shifted-out-of-l2-covid-hospital/story-rBVXE9bHfoC9XuVpQxZLoJ.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||Mass migration of labourers: Sirsa DC, SSP review preparedness||Sirsa deputy commissioner (DC) Ramesh Chander Bidhan and senior superintendent of police (SSP) Arun Nehra on Monday visited different police nakas in Sirsa and asked the cops on duty to keep the higher authorities informed about the arrival of migrant labourers in the district either on foot or vehicle. On Sunday, more than 70 migrant labourers had entered Panihari village in the district from Punjab’s Bathinda with their family members. They were sent to a relief camp. “We are keeping a strict vigil on the migrant labourers as they are walking back to their home towns in Uttar Pradesh (UP), Bihar and Madhya Pradesh (MP). Walking on road could be dangerous and lead to accidents. We have directed the cops on naka duty to give information about such labourers to the control room or the subdivisional magistrate (SDM), so they can be kept out of harm’s way at shelter homes,” DC Bidhan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mass-migration-of-labourers-sirsa-dc-ssp-review-preparedness/story-0T67ukHCK8s5p5bxDcg2cJ.html
18-05-2020||City||Secondary contacts of Covid-19 patient won’t go under institutional quarantine||Noida: The Uttar Pradesh government has asked all the district magistrates and chief medical officers to follow the upgraded guidelines on primary and secondary contacts of a Covid-19 patient while containing spread of the deadly virus. The new guidelines issued on Saturday give clear instructions on those who should be kept under institutional quarantine and the ones who need to go under home quarantine. UP principal secretary Amit Mohan Prasad has informed officials that people living in the same house as the Covid-19 patient will be kept under institutional quarantine. Anybody who has come in direct and close contact of the patient without wearing personal protection equipment (PPE) kit, then such person also needs to be put under institutional quarantine. “The order has given more clarity on the people who should be kept under home quarantine and the ones who need to go under institutional quarantine. There is more clarity on the action required while handling the primary or the secondary contact of a Covid-19 positive patient,” said a senior health official leading the containment drive in the Gautam Budh Nagar district.The order has made it very clear that any person who has come in contact with the patient within the distance of one metre will be sent to institutional quarantine. This category mostly involves the government and health officials, doctors, nurses, lab technicians and the other paramedical staff, the officials said. All the secondary contacts like neighbours or relatives or colleagues or anybody who comes in indirect contact with the positive patient will be kept under home quarantine until and unless they develop Covid-19 symptoms. The order has also said that it is important to have a separate room in the house for a Covid-19 suspect with an attached bathroom. There has to be more than one bathroom in the house so that the other family members don’t use the one used by the person under home quarantine. There should not be any high risk group in the house before keeping a person under home quarantine like persons above the age of 60, people suffering from co-morbid health conditions, pregnant women and young kids, the guideline said.A person going under home quarantine will have to give a written acceptance that he or she will download the Aarogya Setu application and will be active on that. The concerned persons will have to provide their health updates to the local health officials. Such persons will also have to allow the officials to put a flyer outside their house, it said.The order has also given out guidelines for the family members of the people who are under home quarantine. Officials have suggested that one member should be chosen to provide food and other required items to the suspect to ensure that others don’t come in any contact with that person.Family members are also suggested that they should maintain a minimum distance of two metres at least. Officials have suggested that people living in the same house should use gloves while washing clothes or cleaning the floor. Hands should be washed properly immediately after removing the gloves.If the suspect develops any symptom, then health officials should be informed immediately by the family members, the order said. The order has also said that the washroom and the areas coming in touch with the person under home quarantine should be cleaned and sanitized with 1% of Sodium Hypochlorite. Clothes used by the suspect should be washed with regular detergent and warm water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/secondary-contacts-of-covid-19-patient-won-t-go-under-institutional-quarantine/story-0nG0gVQbskaGV0DJm5ZJ6K.html
18-05-2020||City||28 employees of Zee Media test Covid-19 positive; GB Nagar records highest single-day cases||Noida: Gautam Budh Nagar on Monday recorded 31 Covid-19 cases, highest in a single day, taking the total number of positive cases to 286 in the district. The new cases include 15 employees of the Zee Media and eight workers of Chinese mobile maker OPPO.According to health officials, a 39-year-old employee of Zee Media office in Sector 16 was found positive for Covid-19 on May 15. The person was a resident of Laxmi Nagar in Delhi. After he was found positive for the infection, 51 other employees of the company were tested at the Max Lab in Delhi, they said.The officials said that a total of 28 employees of the company were found positive for the infection. Of 28 employees, 15 are residents of Gautam Budh Nagar district while 13 are from Delhi, Ghaziabad and Faridabad. The health officials from Gautam Budh Nagar have informed the administrations of Delhi, Ghaziabad and Faridabad about the employees living in their jurisdiction, according to a daily bulletin released by district magistrate Suhas LY.The specific area of the Zee premises where positive patients were active has been sealed and the sanitization work has started, the officials said.Zee Media group confirmed that some of its workers have been found positive for the deadly virus. “Last Friday, one of our colleagues tested positive for Covid-19. As a responsible organization, we initiated mass testing of all those who could have been in direct or indirect contact with the said individual. So far, 28 of our team mates have tested positive. Fortunately, most of them are asymptomatic and not complaining of any discomfort. We believe this is because of early diagnosis and pro-active intervention,” said the Zee Media group in a press statement.“Our office, newsroom and studios have been sealed for sanitization. The Zee News team has been shifted to an alternative facility for the time being. Meanwhile, testing of other employees will continue,” the statement added.The health department also identified nine Covid-19 positive persons who are employed with OPPO Mobile India’s factory in Ecotech 7, Kasna, Greater Noida. Out of nine, eight are residents of GB Nagar while one is from Ghaziabad, the health officials said.According to the officials, OPPO got its 3,321 factory employees tested at a private lab in Gurugram. Reports of 1,581 persons were received on Sunday evening, out of which nine were found positive for the infection, they said, adding that the remaining reports are awaited.A media spokesperson from OPPO said that the company is taking stringent measures to keep the employees safe. “OPPO had obtained permission from the state authorities to resume production, following the MHA directive. As an organization that places the safety of all our employees and citizens at the forefront, we had not only undertaken COVID-19 tests for all employees at manufacturing facility in Greater Noida, but also suspended all operations at the plant,” the spokesperson said.Besides, two construction workers at the site of Vivo industrial area in Greater Noida were also found positive for the infection. The company had got its 18 employees tested at a private lab in Gurugram which confirmed two people to be positive.“The two workers were active at the construction site of the Vivo Industrial Park. The containment work has already started there,” said the GB Nagar district magistrate, adding that the company has shut its operation at the construction site for time being.Also, five persons from the Harola area of Sector 5 were found Covid-19 positive on Monday. These persons got themselves checked at a private lab in Delhi, the officials said.Around 15 persons have been found positive for the coronavirus from Sector 5 till now. The officials suspect that all the identified patients from Sector 5 are part of the Ceasefire trail. One more positive case was of a 40-year-old woman from Sector 78, who also got herself checked at a Delhi lab. The husband of the woman works in Delhi, the health officials said.A woman from Sector 47 was found “false” positive in a Covid-19 test which was conducted at the lab in a private hospital in Delhi on May 15. On May 17, the woman was found negative for the infection. She is currently under observation at the Delhi hospital, the officials said.According to the officials, all Covid-19 patients admitted till May 6 have been discharged from different hospitals. Currently, there are 87 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Around 194 patients have been discharged after completing the treatment successfully.By Monday night, the health department collected a total of 8,254 samples, including the ones taken at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences in Greater Noida, Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital & Post Graduate Teaching Institute in Sector 30 and different private labs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/28-employees-of-zee-media-test-covid-19-positive-gb-nagar-records-highest-single-day-cases/story-EjuVjsh3P5LIpACt9uoj3J.html
18-05-2020||City||Noida: Many migrants unaware of special train facility||Noida: Even as the district administration is busy arranging for special trains to transport stranded migrants to their home towns in Bihar and other districts of Uttar Pradesh, a number of such workers were caught unaware of the facility on Monday.According to officials, at least 8,498 migrants were sent to different destinations in Bihar through seven Shramik special trains from the city till Sunday. However, several migrants claimed that they are not getting ration or food, and no one from the administration ever came to their area to tell about the transport facility.“How would we know about the transportation facility? None of the officials has told us about it. We have been requesting since the lockdown started that either send us home or provide ration,” said Suman Kumar, a migrant worker from Bihar’s Samastipur district who is staying at Shahdara village in Noida Sector 141.Suman who works as electrician said that none of the six families – all migrant workers from Bihar who live in the same rented building – had any clue about the special trains or how to register online for the same. “As far as I know, not a single migrant from Shahdara village has boarded a train. No bus was sent to take us to the railway station,” said Munnu Kumar Singh, a migrant construction worker from Chhapra district in Bihar, who lives in Sector 141.Ranjit Kumar, a native of Mahoba district in Uttar Pradesh, said he came to know about the train services only last week. However, he did not know how to register online for the service. Lucky for him, he got a job on Saturday at a local supermarket. “Last week someone told me that the registration is going on for the trains. But I had no clue, neither did any one of our neighbours. This Saturday, I got a job at a local super market at Rs 6,000 per month. So I’m not leaving Noida now,” said Ranjit, a migrant worker who stays at Gheja village in Noida.According to the officials, they have received over 80,000 registrations from migrant workers and the special trains are being arranged for the same.“Special trains are leaving for Bihar since Saturday. Besides, special trains have been arranged for the workers from eastern UP as well. Today, first lot of migrants, over 4000, were sent to different districts of eastern Uttar Pradesh. Around 84,000 registrations have been received by us and we are arranging trains accordingly,” said Diwakar Singh, additional district magistrate (administration), Gautam Budh Nagar.Migrants who want to go back home can register themselves online through the state government portals jansunawai.up.nic.in or tinyurl.com/pravasi-shramik-UP, the officials said. The other way is to approach different shelter homes where the police help them to get seats on the migrant special trains, they said.“About 800 migrant workers were taken by the police to different shelter homes for screening on Monday, where they will be getting information about the train services. All these migrants either came from Delhi or were found walking on roads. The idea is to get everyone home. The migrants keep coming to the city, so it’s a rolling process,” said Nitin Tiwari, deputy commissioner of police (headquarters), Gautam Budh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-many-migrants-unaware-of-special-train-facility/story-jRpq7lRoNHxbUmPWvGKdqO.html
18-05-2020||City||Confusion, chaos as 10,000 migrants try to get on trains back home||Chaos descended at Ghanta Ghar Ramlila Ground on Monday as thousands of migrant workers poured in to get boarding passes for three trains that were bound for Bihar. The Ghaziabad district has been running ‘Shramik Special’ trains to Bihar and east UP since May 15. On Monday three trains were bound to depart for eastern UP towns of Gorakhpur, Varanasi and Prayagraj from Kavi Nagar railway station. Three other trains bound for Muzaffarpur (10am), Raxaul (12 noon) and Patna (1.30pm) were scheduled to depart from Ghanta Ghar.The registration of passengers for Bihar bound trains was being done at Ghanta Ghar, while that of trains leaving for eastern UP cities was being done at Kavi Nagar, Ramlila Ground.“The chaos was primarily due to migrant workers who had managed to cross over from Delhi and other nearby areas. Many came with the hope that documentation for all trains will be done at Ghanta Ghar. We tried our best to control the crowd, but the crowd swelled to around 10,000 people soon,” said Sanjay Kumar, officer on special duty from Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA), who was one of the officers supervising operations at Ghanta Ghar.Official sources said that workers who had not registered online had come to the ground. The crowd swelled when UP Roadways buses brought along more people on Monday morning from shelter homes in Ghaziabad.Workers like Suman Kumar who had come from Chijarsi, Noida, did not manage to get a boarding pass for the train leaving for Patna and was left stranded at Ghanta Ghar, amid the chaos.“I left my room three days ago and have been since trying ti get a train or a bus back to my hometown. But there was no information about any buses or trains. Then someone told that there trains leaving from Ghaziabad station and registrations were being done here. So, i came here on Monday morning and saw that there was a crowd of almost 10,000 people and no social distancing was maintained. They were almost climbing over each other in trying to get a boarding pass,” he added.“I along with 36 of my co-workers came here from Usmanpur in Delhi but could not get a boarding pass for any train due to the huge rush. There was chaos all around. When our turn came for getting documentation completed, the officials told us that the occupancy in trains was full,” said Iftekhar Alam, a migrant worker from Kishanganj in Bihar.A source claimed that the Aarogya Setu app indicated presence of a Covid-19 positive person in the periphery of 500 metres of the Ramlila ground.The officials said that three trains to Bihar were to have occupancy of 1200 passengers each while three trains to UP were to have an occupancy of 900 passengers each.“We were operating six trains and these are catering to all bona fide passengers. There were hardly 400-500 extra people who had come in,” district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey told reporters at Kavi Nagar Ramlila Ground during his inspection on Monday.A group of about 30 to 35 migrant workers, who work at Loha Mandi in Ghaziabad and wanted to go to Chatarpur in Madhya Pradesh, said that they had been doing rounds of Ghanta Ghar and Kavi Nagar in a bid to get information about trains.“It has been two days since and we have been running around to find out about trains leaving for Chatarpur. A child in our group is not well and his mother has been carrying him along in this scorching heat. The police abuse us if they see us on roads,” said Vandana Rajput, one of the migrant workers of the group.SSP Kalanidhi Naitha,i who was at the spot, said, “I will ask my personnel to be more cordial with migrant workers.”Sanket Kumar, who is native of Rae Bareli, said he finally arrived at Kavi Nagar on Monday afternoon from Ahmedabad.“I started four days ago from Gulab Nagar in Ahmedabad, Gujarat, and reached Ghaziabad after taking lifts in trucks. Then I walked on foot to Ghanta Ghar and stood in a long queue. Then, someone finally told me that documentation for trains to UP cities will be done at Kavi Nagar. Then I walked to Kavi Nagar and am trying my luck here now to get a boarding pass,” he added.Though the situation was slightly better at Kavi Nagar, a number of migrants here accused officials of laxity in making proper arrangements. The workers here had gathered since late Sunday night in order to board trains bound for Gorakhpur, Prayagraj and Varanasi at 3pm, 4.30pm and 6.30pm, respectively.“For the past three days we were holed up at a shelter home in Morta. Around 6am on Monday, we were brought to Kavi Nagar by buses but there are no train for our hometown, Bareilly. If there was no train to Bareilly, then why were we brought here and made to sit in the scorching heat? Our children got food only around 2pm,” said Shabana, a migrant worker who had come from Punjab along with her group .“This is utter chaos and no one seems to care. We came to Ghaziabad after a 15-day long journey on foot from Punjab and were taken to shelter home after the group was picked up by police three days ago,” she added.MS Garbyal, additional district magistrate who is supervising operations at Kavi Nagar, said that UP Roadways buses brought workers to the ground on Monday morning.“After the required seats were filled, those left behind will be sent by buses back to shelter homes. They will have to wait for the next trains to their hometowns,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/confusion-chaos-as-10-000-migrants-try-to-get-on-trains-back-home/story-hwL5CTsKvlQU1g5sBZY6qL.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana industries allowed to function with 100% workforce||Haryana government on Monday allowed industrial areas with access control (industrial model townships, special economic zones and industrial estates), e-commerce enterprises and industries in rural, urban and municipal areas to start functioning with 100% workforce.All the functional industrial establishments will be outside containment zones. CM Manohar Lal Khattar said areas other than the containment zones will be considered as orange zones and all non-restricted activities will resume in such areas.Issuing guidelines for industrial units, the state government said these establishments will have to apply on Saral Haryana portal to get movement passes for their employees.“Immediate and automatic approval shall be accorded for the generation of movement passes as soon as the applications are submitted on the portal. The passes will be valid till May 31,” said an order issued by the industries and commerce principal secretary AK Singh. Movement passes already issued to industrial workers will stand automatically extended till May 31, the order said.The state government on Monday wrote to Delhi, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh governments besides Chandigarh administration, seeking their consent for operation of inter-state bus routes, as mandated by the ministry of home affairs (MHA) in its lockdown 4.0 guidelines.The state has sought consent to operate buses on Panchkula- Delhi, Gurugram- Chandigarh, Ambala- Shimla, Karnal- Amritsar, Faridabad- Aligarh, Gurugram- Aligarh, Panipat- Bareilly, Gurugram- Mathura, Gurugram- Rajasthan, Hisar- Ajmer, Ambala- Dehradun and Gurugram- Gwalior routes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-industries-allowed-to-function-with-100-workforce/story-0T8cK44fnAWmZQ7YqjSdCI.html
18-05-2020||Noida||Noida-Delhi border remains sealed even as lockdown 4 eases restrictions||Even as the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown began from Monday, the Delhi-Noida border continued to remain sealed, permitting only the movement of those involved in essential services and those who had administration-issued passes.However, with the Union ministry of home affairs permitting interstate travel from May 18, traffic chaos was seen at the Kalindi Kunj and Delh-Noida-Direct (DND) Flyway stretch on Monday morning.“People started queuing up on the Delhi side to cross over to Noida, assuming that the borders would have been de-sealed. However, Gautam Budh Nagar is continuing with the previous guidelines and only movement of essential services and those with passes issued by the DM is allowed,” deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Rajesh S said.The district had sealed its border will Delhi in April after several coronavirus disease cases reported in Gautam Budh Nagar were found to have links in Delhi.He said there were snarls in the morning and instead of the usual one lane, traffic personnel had to open two additional lanes to smoothen the flow of traffic. The situation was normalised by 11.30am, traffic officers aid.officers also said the only difference in the fourth phase of the lockdown, which kicked in on May 18 and will continue till May 31, so far was that the movement of medical professionals across state borders have now been allowed.Commuters with date specific passes can only travel on that date while those whose passes were valid only till May 17 will have to renew passes. But the passes permitting the movement of vehicles related to services that have been allowed can continue to ply even in the fourth phase.“The situation was tense Monday morning. There was pressure from the Delhi side but it was controlled. People from Noida who have managed to get across will face problems while returning as rules here have not changed. All previous guidelines are being followed,” Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, said.To ease the situation, the Delhi Police tweeted at 10.43am that people travelling from Delhi to Noida via the Kalindi Kunj barrage or the DND Flyway may face difficulties as entry of only vehicles having passes issued by the district magistrate is allowed.Another tweet at 11.06am issued an advisory that people should avoid crossing the border from these points as traffic was heavy.Commuters faced hour-long snarls due to the additional traffic pressure.“We usually take the Eastern Peripheral Expressway but today, we decided to go via Kalindi Kunj. However, it soon became clear that to cross a 50-metre stretch, it would take us more than an hour and so we then via DND Flyway. It did take us a while but then police opened another lane so the traffic could move more smoothly,” Amrinder Singh, a senior manager with a Noida-based medical equipment managing company, who commutes from Faridabad, said.He said there were many who had come out for no reason and they were being asked by the police to turn back. “The only reason it took so long was because police were verifying each person’s ID and pass. From tomorrow hopefully, the situation will ease,” Singh said.Gautam Budh Nagar administration has not issued any fresh guidelines for the fourth phase of the lockdown. The nationwide lockdown, first announced from March 25, will now continue till May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-delhi-border-remains-sealed-even-as-lockdown-4-eases-restrictions/story-XN4bO2gpf73FMlw5U2Vd1K.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||1991 abduction case: Four Punjab cops seek anticipatory bail||Four policemen, booked along with former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini in a case related to the disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani, a Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation (CITCO) employee in 1991, moved an anticipatory bail application on Monday. The four are sub-inspectors Har Sahai Sharma, Jagir Singh and Anoop Singh and ASI Kuldip Singh. The court of additional district and sessions judge Monika Goyal is likely to decide on the application on Tuesday. Saini had been granted anticipatory bail last week. In their anticipatory bail plea, the accused have said that after arrest from near the KC Theatre on December 13, 1991, and the recovery of some weapons on Multani’s behest, he was handed over to the Qadian police station from where he had escaped.Opposing the anticipatory bail, district attorney Sanjiv Batra, submitted that Multani was picked up from his house in Phase 7 and produced two witnesses to back his claim. Advocate Pradeep Virk, counsel for the complainant, said Multani’s signatures on the arrest memo were forged. “The signatures do not match and to prove that we have submitted documents from CITCO, where Multani worked,” he added. Earlier in the day, the hearing of arguments on the anticipatory bail plea was delayed, after the prosecution sought transfer of the application, in a verbal submission to additional district and sessions judge, Monika Goyal. They had even met the district sessions judge in this regard, but no written request was made. After a delay of around 30 minutes, arguments were made before the same court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/1991-abduction-case-four-punjab-cops-seek-anticipatory-bail/story-uG178DerIP7M5tjYOGmn9N.html
18-05-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka reports 99 new Covid-19 cases||Ninety-nine new Covid-19 cases were reported in Karnataka on Monday, taking the total number of cases in the State to 1,246, said the Health Department.At present, there are 678 active cases in the State while 530 patients have been discharged from hospitals. 38 people have lost their lives in the State including one due to non-Covid-19 cause.According to the health bulletin, among the active cases, 12 people are admitted to the ICU.India on Monday saw the highest single-day increase of 5,242 new Covid-19 cases. The total number of positive cases reached 96,169 on the first day of the fourth phase of lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-reports-99-new-covid-19-cases/story-GUYgcCfJfuSId0XfW4f5XJ.html
18-05-2020||Delhi||Man arrested for posting morphed photos of woman on social media||The Delhi Police on Monday said they arrested a 33-year-old cloth merchant from Tughlaqabad Extension for allegedly posting morphed photographs of a woman, who works with a national political party’s IT cell, on social media. The police said the man was attempting to malign the woman’s image, probably because of her political connections. Other persons involved in the crime are also being tracked, senior officers said. The man circulated the posts on Twitter, Facebook and messaging apps, the police said.Delhi Police spokesperson Anil Mittal said the cyber crime unit registered a case under relevant sections of the IT Act after receiving a complaint from a woman alleging that someone had circulated her morphed pictures on social media. The woman told the police that the photographs were obscene. “During the investigation, we found that such posts had been shared with multiple people through social media. We got the posts removed from Facebook and Twitter,” Mittal said.He said that technical surveillance led the police to an account, which had originally shared the obscene posts. The police found that the account details were in the name of one Mohammed Aasim Sayaad, a resident of Tuglakabad Extension, who works as a cloth merchant.“We arrested the man and inspected his mobile phone and computer, which revealed that he had shared the offensive posts on Facebook. He has confessed to his involvement,” Mittal said.Another officer privy to the probe, who wished not to be named, said the probe has suggested that there were many others involved in the crime. “Sayaad is being interrogated to find out on whose directions such pictures were posted on the Internet. Some other account holders who posted the offensive content have also been identified through technical investigation and further probe is underway,” the officer said.The woman said that she is expecting more people to be arrested and that the police must investigate the matter thoroughly. “I had lodged the FIR around two months ago. I think I was targeted because I am holding the flag of my political party in my Twitter profile picture . The same photograph was used, morphed and circulated on almost all social media platforms. It looks like the intention behind this is mainly political,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-arrested-for-posting-morphed-photos-of-woman-on-social-media/story-ey52TjzcYYyMDAGmCcJdgM.html
18-05-2020||Delhi||Thousands gather in Chhatarpur in the hope of returning home||Nearly 5,000 migrants from across the national Capital gathered near Chhatarpur Mandir in south Delhi between Saturday and Monday after news spread that people were being screened there to be sent back home on trains, government officers said. While NGOs and residents arranged meals for the migrants, they struggled to find toilets and spent two nights on the roadside. The district authorities stepped in on Monday to arrange their stay on the Chhatarpur Mandir premises and dharamshalas nearby, with assurances that they would get to board trains to their home towns over the next few days.“Many of the nearly 5,000 migrants who had gathered here have returned to their homes. Over the last couple of days, we have sent around 900 people to their homes in Bihar and Madhya Pradesh by train. Around 2,000 migrants remain here. We have made arrangements for them to stay until we can arrange trains for them,” DM Mishra, district magistrate (south Delhi), said while leading a long queue of migrants to the temple where green and red mats were spread out on floors. Among those left behind on Monday were people who had made multiple failed attempts to get to their home towns, those who had walked here from as far as Bawana and many who got separated from their families . One such man, Kapil Dev, who walked from Bawana to reach Chhatarpur, said that one of his friends had called him on Saturday to inform him of the availability of trains.“I have been waiting here since Saturday night, sleeping on the pavement and hiding behind walls to relieve myself. I am not going to return to Bawana. I tried to leave Delhi on a truck, a bicycle and foot but got caught each time. This might be my last chance,” said Dev, an elderly mechanic who belongs to Darbhanga in Bihar. Mishra said that a lot of these migrants had received SMSs from the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), on whose website they had registered to go back home, to assemble in Chhatarpu. “The word soon spread and over two days, about 5,000 people gathered here,” he said, adding that the numbers were unexpected. While the government could not immediately arrange food for the large gathering, residents stepped in to provide them with meals. “There were no toilets for them. They were sleeping on pavements, in parking lots, and wherever they could find in this heat. We have been arranging food for 1,500 people, but the gathering is much larger than that,” Bhavreen Kandhari, an activist, said.On Monday and Tuesday, several migrants were sent to the New Delhi railway station in DTC buses. Among those left behind were Kanhaiya Lal Das, a mason who wants to return to his village in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur. He had brought along all his belongings in a sack and carried a ceiling fan in his hand.“My house owner wouldn’t let me stay if I didn’t pay rent. So, I packed all my belongings. I don’t think I’ll return to Delhi if I can get back to my village. Whatever little I earn there will be enough for me,” he said. Then there were others who got separated from their families in the melee. “My five-year-old son got separated from us and is in the queue for those being sent by train. Please reunite us with him,” Vipin Kumar, a migrant, urged the district magistrate. Since sending Kumar with his son in a train on Monday was out of the question because of the rush, the DM went looking for the boy until they could be sent home together.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/thousands-gather-in-chhatarpur-in-the-hope-of-returning-home/story-Ck9s9pO7WlOm8qogBIJFSK.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula: 17 buses with 500 migrants leave for Saharanpur||More than 500 migrants, who had left for Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh (UP) from Kalka and Pinjore in 17 special Haryana Roadways buses on May 17 but were sent back, started their journey again on Monday. Kalka subdivisional magistrate (SDM) Rakesh Sandhu said 17 buses from Kalka bus stand and Madanwala village in Pinjore carrying 520 migrants had left on Sunday morning, but were sent back from the Haryana-UP border near Yamunanagar. Raju Yadav, a migrant, who along with his three-year-old son and family, had left in one of the buses from Kalka, said, “It was heartbreaking to see hopes of my family members and many others being shattered within seconds.” The SDM added that after coordinating with their UP counterparts, all migrants were sent back in 17 buses to Saharanpur on Monday morning.However, those who were scheduled to leave for their native places on Monday in special buses from Panchkula were disappointed as their departure was postponed due to the Sunday incident. Officials said they will be now sending migrants back in phased manner instead of daily buses as it was posing difficulties in operations. As per the data obtained from local administration, around 36,000 migrant workers have so far applied to go back to other states.20 BUSES DEPART FROM AMBALA A day after 20 buses ferrying migrant workers were pulled back from Yamunanagar, the district administration sent these towards Saharanpur again on Monday.The Haryana Roadways buses ferrying nearly 600 migrants, with 30 of them in each bus, left from Radha Soami Satsang Bhawan on Jalbera Road here.Deputy commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma said they we are sending only those migrant workers to their home districts who have registered under e-Disha.“We are regularly sending migrant workers registered on e-Disha through buses and trains. Around 3,700 agricultural labourers have been sent to Bhagalpur, Katihar and Muzaffarpur in Bihar via three special trains. Buses ferrying migrants are also being sent to UP.”(With inputs by Bhavey Nagpal from Ambala)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panchkula-17-buses-with-500-migrants-leave-for-saharanpur/story-mgs7YkFUcGZ2nvDHtXVJ4I.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||22-year-old youth shot dead over land dispute in Tarn Taran; nine booked||A 22-year-old man was shot dead over a land dispute in Maluwal village, 15 km from the district headquarter, on Sunday night. The deceased has been identified as Harkirat Singh of the same village. Police have also booked nine persons, including six by name — Karaj Singh, his wife Ranjit Kaur, Harjit Kaur, Ranjit Kaur (namesake of Karaj’s wife) of Maluwal village, and Rashpal Singh of Bhuchar village, and a migrant labourer Raju. Police, however, are yet to make an arrest.The case was registered on the complaint of the deceased’s father Navjot Singh (45). He said, “We had a written agreement with Karaj Singh to sell our 6.5 acres of agriculture land in the village in 2016. Karaj had been increasing the date of registration of the land and due to this, we had given our land to Karaj on contract-basis. However, neither Karaj had been getting the land’s registration done nor he had been giving us the land’s rent. Karaj had sown wheat on the land and we had been resisting its harvesting. Karaj, however, harvested the crop on Saturday.”He said, “On Sunday, my brother Upkar Singh, my elder son Harkirat Singh and my wife Manjit Kaur had gone to see our fields. In the meantime, the accused also reached the spot in a Mahindra Bolero SUV. Karaj had a .12 bore riffle while Rashpal had a pistol. Karaj opened fire from his riffle. One of the shots hit my son and he succumbed to the injuries.”Chabhal station house officer (SHO) Harwinder Singh said they have registered a case under sections 302 (murder), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian penal code (IPC) and section 25-27 of the Arms Act against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/22-year-old-youth-shot-dead-over-land-dispute-in-tarn-taran-nine-booked/story-K9k8LDYOsmbr2D7CK0XTZM.html
18-05-2020||Pune||About 80,000 migrants left Pune so far for home states||Nearly 80,000 migrant workers and other people have left Pune district in Maharashtra so far in trains and public transport for their home states amidst the coronavirus-induced lockdown, a senior official said on Monday.In the next two days, 18 special trains from the district are scheduled to leave for various districts in different states, said district collector Naval Kishore Ram.“As on May 18, about 80,000 migrant labourers, stranded people from Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Chattisgarh, Uttarakhand and other states were sent back through 30 trains and state transport buses,” he said.He reiterated his appeal to the labourers to stay back in view of permissions being given for resumption of industrial activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/about-80-000-migrants-left-pune-so-far-for-home-states/story-6opy6Jsx7db1eRE61LSjKL.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||All rural households to get potable water by 2022: Amarinder||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday said the state was all set to provide 100% potable piped water connections to all rural households by 2022. He added that 50% of these households already had individual water connections.In a video conference with Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, the CM said as of April 1, 2020, of the 1,634 habitations in which ground water was impacted, 477 had been provided potable water, and the state was committed to covering all rural households with piped water supply connections by March 2022, in line with the target of the Punjab government even before the conceptualisation of Jal Jiwan Mission (JJM) by the Centre.To further boost the state’s efforts, the CM sought reduction in GST on treatment plans as well as purification media from the current 18% to 5%, to make JJM schemes sustainable in the long run. He pointed out that media in the water treatment plan needed to be replaced every 2-3 years.Amarinder urged the Union minister to recognise the 1,449 Kandi belt villages as ‘hill area’ to reduce the beneficiary contribution from 10% to 5% for construction under JJM. He said the state government had been repeatedly raising the subject with the Centre for the past two years, but no action had been taken yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/all-rural-households-to-get-potable-water-by-2022-amarinder/story-u34eKQBDQ23zPMZMYM4DjM.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||Tomato growers of Haryana see red as prices crash to ₹3/kg||Tomato growers in the region are staring at huge losses as the wholesale prices have crashed drastically to ₹3 per kg amid the lack of buyers.“Today, I sold tomato at ₹60 per crate (containing 22-24kg) to the local traders as no buyers from Delhi are coming to our area due to the lack of demand amid Covid-19 lockdown,” said Ajay Kumar, a young farmer from Ladwa in Kurukshetra district.Moreover, the tomato growers have predicted further drop in rates as it is just the beginning of harvesting, which will be at its peak in the next two weeks.Worried, the farmers have started dumping their harvest stating that the prices do not even cover the charges of transporting the crop to Delhi or any other big vegetable markets.“A crate of tomato is being sold at ₹80 in Delhi, but transporting one will cost ₹40. This will incur a profit of only ₹40 for 22kg of tomato,” said Om Prakash, a farmer from Dhanokheri of Karnal district.Haryana horticulture department director general Arjun Singh Saini said, “To protect farmers from losses, the government has extended the deadline of registration under the Bhavantar Bharpai Scheme, which assures prices of ₹5/kg.”However, farmer Mahinder Singh from Yamunanagar said, “The government’s support is not sufficient as ₹5/kg price for 140 quintals does not cover even the input cost, which is around ₹70,000/acre.”Ram Kumar from Bhiwani’s Kharkhari Makhwan village said, “Even with compensation of ₹1/kg, I will bear a loss of ₹60,000/acre. So, I have dumped my produce in the field, allowing cattle to graze on it.” He and with 50 other farmers from his village have been sitting on a dharna since May 15 demanding hike in the minimum support price of tomato.Bhiwani deputy commissioner Ajay Kumar said he will raise the issue with senior officials.ABHAY CHAUTALA MEETS PROTESTING FARMERSEllenabad MLA and INLD general secretary Abhay Singh Chautala on Monday met the protesting farmers in Bhiwani. He alleged that they were forced to dump crop due to government’s poor policies.“They should be given compensation of ₹60,000/acre. If the state fails to do this, the grief-stricken farmers will shift towards old crops, which are not profitable. I will raise this issue with the chief minister and officials concerned,” Abhay said.Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal could not be reached for comment despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/tomato-growers-of-haryana-see-red-as-prices-crash-to-3-kg/story-y0zVj7lM3PyZAcWbaKrRnL.html
18-05-2020||City||White ration card holders in Kalyan to pay for Covid treatment||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has released detailed instructions on the hospital charges for Covid patients.KDMC chief Vijay Suryavanshi has warned hospitals not to charge more than the amount fixed, else action would be taken against them.Shastrinagar civic hospital and Holy Cross are providing free treatment for Covid patients. RR and Neon Covid Hospitals will charge patients. The saffron and yellow ration card holders don’t have pay at any Covid hospitals and their treatment will be covered under Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Aarogya scheme. “The civic body has decided the fees for quarantine centres and the Covid hospital for some patients. If anyone is overcharged, the civic body will take legal action,” said an officer from health department of KDMC.Those who are suspected cases or have tested positive to Covid-19 in Kalyan and Dombivli are sent to Tata Amantra quarantine centre. The patients, who are white card holders, and others admitted to the centre will pay ₹500 a day. White ration cards holders and other patients will be sent to RR Covid Hospital in Dombivli or Neon Covid hospital on Kalyan-Shil road. If there is no bed available, the patients will be sent to Holy Cross Covid hospital. These patients will have to pay ₹2,800 a day for general ward, ₹3200 a day for twin sharing room, ₹3,800 for single room, ICU will cost ₹5,000 a day and ventilator ₹2,000 per day. The cost includes services such as doctors visit, nursing charges, PPE kit and food for the patient.Additional charges will be incurred for medicines, surgical equipment, pathology lab and other tests with 15% concession.“Earlier, the civic body was providing free treatment but it was necessary to charge to balance the financial burden,” said Prashant Patil, spokesperson, Kalyan Doctors Army.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/white-ration-card-holders-in-kalyan-to-pay-for-covid-treatment/story-Ca0UqJsEZTFov7XXSj5vWK.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||18 new cases take Haryana Covid count to 928||With 18 new cases, mostly with Delhi links, the Covid-19 count climbed to 928 in Haryana on Monday.The state health department bulletin said while seven positive cases were reported from Gurugram, three each were detected in Faridabad, Sonepat and Hisar, and one each in Karnal and Mahendergarh. All infected persons in Gurugram and Faridabad have travel history to Delhi, senior doctors said.PREGNANT WOMAN TESTS POSITIVEThough the health bulletin did not mention her case, a pregnant woman was tested positive at PGIMS, Rohtak. Doctors said the woman hailed from Gurugram, who was admitted to the hospital’s labour room. “21 staffers, including doctors and nurses, have been quarantined. The labour room has been sanitised,” the PGIMS spokesman said.In Sonepat, among the three confirmed patients are a 36-year-old man from Mayur Vihar area and a 30-year-old man from Mohana village, both working with the Delhi government. Son of an infected man also tested positive for the virus in Sonepat.KARNAL GIRL FOUND INFECTEDA day after her father was tested positive for coronavirus, a 21-year-old girl was also found to be infected in Chogawan village of Karnal, taking the number of active cases in the district to eight. Karnal DC Nishant Kumar Yadav said Chogawan village has already been sealed and declared as a containment zone. Karnal has so far seen 19 patients, of whom one has died and 10 have recovered.In Hisar, three persons, including a Mumbai-returnee and two members of a family, tested positive. The man found infected in Mahendergarh is said have a travel history to Delhi. A father-son duo, who had returned from Mumbai on May 9, also tested positive in Mahendergarh’s Nangal Chaudhary area, district health official said. Their case has not been added to the state’s bulletin.RECOVERY RATE 64.44%With 36 more patients getting discharged, the number of those cured in the state reached 598, which took the recovery rate to 64.44%. The bulletin stated that while 18 patients were discharged from Sonepat, 10 walked out of hospital in Gurugram, four in Mahendergarh and two each in Rohtak and Nuh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/18-new-cases-take-haryana-covid-count-to-928/story-ScB2D9HFCMo0Lk0r6t0L3H.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||60 farmers booked for stubble burning in Gurdaspur||Police have registered 60 First-Information Reports (FIRs) against farmers for burning stubble in the district, Gurdaspur chief agricultural officer (CAO) Dr Raminder Singh said on Monday. He added that this year 243 cases of stubble burning had been reported in the district, against 491 such instances in the corresponding period last year. “Farmers must stop this practice immediately. On Sunday, a stubble fire started at Gunnopur village, 10 km from Gurdaspur, spread in around 150 acre, causing a loss to crops of other farmers,” said the CAO.A farmer Balwinder Singh, of the village, said this stubble fire spread and gutted his sugarcane crop grown over 4 acre, leading to a loss of Rs lakh. Gurdaspur SDM Skattar Singh Bal said he had provided assistance to the agriculture department to identify the loss in such fires and bring all culprits to book. The CAO added farmers were being booked for burning stubble, as per the guidelines of the National Green Tribunal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/60-farmers-booked-for-stubble-burning-in-gurdaspur/story-8RzHpkCVLZwBwSduYXxdNP.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||Patiala police crackdown on liquor smuggling; 13 FIRs registered||Days after an illicit liquor factory was busted in Ghanaur sub-division of the district, police raided godowns, marriage palaces and cold storage warehouses to check illegal production, storage and smuggling of liquor on Monday. The department also recovered 564 litre of lahan (raw material used to distill liquor) from villages on the banks of the Ghaggar river. Based on these raids, 13 FIRs have been registered in police stations across the district. A few days ago, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had directed the police to crackdown on all kinds of liquor smuggling, bootlegging and illicit distillation of liquor to protect the cash-strapped state from incurring any revenue losses.SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu said the raids would continue. “Deputy commissioner Kumar Amit held a meeting on Monday and passed orders to check all those premises where liquor smuggling is suspected to be taking place,” the SSP said, adding DSPs and SHOs had been directed to submit a daily report to district headquarters. Officers violating these orders would face strict action. On May 16, an illegal distillery-cum-liquor-bottling plant was busted in Ghanaur , after which a Congress sarpanch and a local MLA’s aide were booked. The distillery, which was being run in a cold store, was operating at full capacity since the lockdown. The accused were bottling liquor in Royal Stag, Masti Malta, Lajawab Sofia and Raseela Santra bottles, some of the popular brands in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/patiala-police-crackdown-on-liquor-smuggling-13-firs-registered/story-icho1EulPQPfsKF27LZpqJ.html
18-05-2020||City||SGPC stops ₹3-lakh discretionary fund to members this year||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), which has seen a sharp dip in its daily earning due to prolonged lockdown, on Monday decided not to pay its members annual discretionary fund of ₹3 lakh for 2020-21 and discontinue general financial aid given to needy people for three months.The SGPC has 170 members in its general house and each gets ₹ 3 lakh annually as discretionary fund, which he/she can use for dharam parchar (spread of religion) and helping the needy.The decision was taken in the SGPC executive committee meeting held at Sri Guru Ram Das Medical College, here. The SGPC also used to extend financial aid to the needy on request, which has now been suspended for three months.The executive committee also gave approval to setting up of high-powered committee to look into the fiscal crisis and come out with some guidelines. It will comprise SGPC senior vice-president Rajinder Singh Mehta, junior vice-president Gurbaksh Singh, general secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami, chief secretary Roop Singh and academicians. It will submit its report in 10 days.“This committee will look into the financial matters pertaining to various SGPC departments, including dharam parchar, management of gurdwaras and educational institutes,” said president Gobind Singh Longowal, who chaired the meeting.However, the panel did not touch the salaries being given to thousands of the SGPC employees amid the fiscal crisis. When asked, a SGPC official said, “The committee will discuss about it.”‘Will approach Centre for including Amritsar in expressway project’Taking serious note of the exclusion of Amritsar from the much-hyped Delhi-Amritsar-Katra Expressway Project, the SGPC executive also passed a resolution condemning the move and decided to raise the concern with the Union government.“This is very unfortunate to exclude Guru Nagari from the ₹60,000 crore project. The project should be executed as per its original alignment according to which Amritsar was its part. The SGPC will take up the matter with Union home minister Amit Shah and Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari,” said Longowal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sgpc-stops-3-lakh-discretionary-fund-to-members-this-year/story-K1IKSIQQEpFkG3l63J9HrK.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab can borrow ₹12,000 cr more, but govt not enthused||The Centre’s decision to raise borrowing limits for states from 3% to 5% of gross state domestic product (GSDP) for 2020-21 will allow the Punjab government a headroom of ₹12,000 crore in the current fiscal.The state government had pegged its borrowing from the market at ₹18,827 crore during the current financial year and the enhancement in the limit under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act will allow it access to extra funds to meet the shortfall in revenues due to the Covid-19 outbreak, according to senior officials.While the state will be able to borrow additional ₹3,000, or say 0.5% of the enhanced FRBM limit, straightaway from the market, the rest is linked to reforms in four areas – universalisation of ‘one nation, one ration card’, ease of doing business, power distribution and achieving an increase in the revenues of the urban local bodies.Of the enhanced borrowing limit, 1% — four tranches of 0.25% — is linked to clearly specified reform actions and a further 0.5% hike will be granted if milestones are achieved in at least three out of the four reform areas. “The state (Punjab) has already integrated with the ‘one nation, one ration card’ system and is progressing well on ease of doing well and power distribution reforms. The public policy reforms-linked enhancement in the FRBM limit is per se a good step, but it is just additional borrowing limit without no relief or support in interest, and not a stimulus or grant. We were expecting more revenue deficit grant from the Centre as a stimulus to combat Covid-19,” said a senior official who did not want to be named.The debt-stressed state government, whose tax revenues got severely hit due to the coronavirus-induced national lockdown, had requested the Centre to relax the borrowing limit from 3 per cent to 4 per cent of GSDP, but has been circumspect in market borrowings so far. The state finance department has borrowed ₹2,600 crore by way of government securities in the first six weeks of the current financial year. “There is a full year ahead and no one knows how things will pan out from here. The market borrowings will depend entirely on cash flows or debt repayment schedule,” he said.Punjab is already among the most indebted states with a debt-gross state domestic product ratio of 40%. At ₹2.29 lakh crore as on March 31, 2020, the rising debt is seen as one of the major causes of the state’s fiscal woes. The state government had shelled out around ₹17,600 crore as interest payments during the previous fiscal. These borrowings have been going into debt servicing or meeting day-to-day expenditure, and not in the creation of income-generating capital assets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-can-borrow-12-000-cr-more-but-govt-not-enthused/story-Qwmtf4qPRJ1OhXZuzC14mO.html
18-05-2020||City||Untreated sewage continues to flow in drains, Fazilka admn misses NGT deadline||The nationwide lockdown to curb spread of coronavirus has scaled up troubles for Fazilka residents as the discharge of untreated sewage has soared significantly.The state monitoring panel of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has asked the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) authorities to take immediate measures to control the hazardous practice of discharging untreated municipal waste into the drainage networks.NGT Punjab panel head justice Jasbir Singh (retd) confirmed on Monday that the field inputs show that the in-situ bioremediation of sewage by urban local bodies (ULBs) in different districts of the Malwa region is still incomplete.Bioremediation is the use of naturally-occurring or deliberately-introduced microorganisms to consume and break down environmental pollutants.“In January this year, 18 ULBs of the five Malwa districts of Fazilka, Ferozepur, Muktsar, Moga and Faridkot were directed to adopt bioremediation of sewage by March 31. Owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown, the ULBs missed the deadline and untreated sewage continues to flow in the drains. This may prove to be hazardous to heath. Today, I have telephonically discussed the matter with the PPCB officials,” he said.Singh said that PPCB authorities were duly informed through email on Saturday about the inflow of untreated sewage in drains of Fazilka.“The PPCB officials have been asked to expedite work of treating municipal waste as now relaxations have been granted by the state government to resume development works. A virtual meeting has been fixed for Thursday to discuss the environmental issues,” he added.At a meeting held in Fazilka on January 7, the NGT state panel had directed the ULBs to start bioremediation by March-end. Failing which, the municipalities would be liable for a penalty of Rs 5 lakh. Singh said no decision of imposing fine has been taken as the delay was due to lockdown.Vikram Ahuja, a farm rights activist from Fazilka, had filed a petition in the NGT in July last year stating that untreated sewage of 21 municipalities of Punjab’s Malwa belt is flowing through drains into the district resulting in contamination of groundwater. Following this, NGT had directed the ULBs to start bioremediation till sewage treatment plants are not constructed.Ahuja said Aspal extension and other drains are stinking due to discharge of untreated waste into them.The ULBs in Malwa have been told to commission STPs by March 31, 2021, otherwise, NGT will impose a compensation of Rs 10 lakh per month.Fazilka DC APS Sandhu did not respond to phone calls and messages despite multiple attempts.PPCB member secretary Krunesh Garg said that he has asked for details of the matter from the field staff as all development works were stalled due to the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/untreated-sewage-continues-to-flow-in-drains-fazilka-admn-misses-ngt-deadline/story-0vAd3TLBtZ6nYyrsk49DMK.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab ministers split over boycotting chief secy, 3 attend conference with him||A week after a “unanimous” call was given by the Punjab cabinet to boycott the meetings attended by chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh, cracks surfaced in the council of ministers on Monday with three attending a video conference in which the senior officer was present.The meeting called to review the Covid-19 arrangements in the wake of the lockdown 4.0 was chaired by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, with Balbir Singh Sidhu (health and family welfare minister), Bharat Bhushan Ashu (food and civil supplies) and OP Soni (medical education) being part of it.Also present in the meeting were Kuljit Nagra, the CM’s political adviser and Fateghgarh Sahib MLA, and Congress MLAs Kuldeep Vaid, and Surinder Dabar. Karan Avtar Singh was accompanied by additional chief secretary (home) Satish Chandra and additional chief secretary (governance reforms and public grievances) Vinni Mahajan.The call to boycott the chief secretary by the ministers was given on May 11 by passing a resolution, after the officer had a spat with three senior ministers — Manpreet Singh Badal (finance), Charanjit Channi (technical education) and Sukhjinder Randhawa (jails and cooperation) over the issue of state excise policy.To avoid an embarrassment, the government had appointed Satish Chandra as cabinet secretary of the meeting of the council of ministers on May 11. The next day, Karan Avtar was relieved of the charge of finance commissioner (taxation) by the state government.This was followed by a strong demand by Congress’ Gidderbaha MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring to remove Karan Avtar as chief secretary, with many ruling party MLAs supporting him. Warring even had levelled allegation of conflict of interest against the officer.The ministers who attended Monday’s meeting said they didn’t have any issue with the chief secretary being part of it.“There was no point of boycotting the meeting chaired by the CM himself. The issue has already caused a lot of embarrassment to the state government,” a minister, who wished not to be quoted, said. “We should leave the issue to the CM,” another minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-ministers-split-over-boycotting-chief-secy-3-attend-conference-with-him/story-Ow2f3Ys84iy4NsjKXsCXYP.html
18-05-2020||Gurugram||No Metro or Gurugam buses till May 31, bike-taxi services resume||The fourth phase of the ongoing nationwide lockdown will continue in Gurugram with largely the same curbs on mobility that were enforced in the third phase, said government officials who also clarified that mass transit facilities — including Gurugram’s city bus service, Rapid Metro Link, and Delhi’s Metro’s Yellow Line — will remain suspended in the city till May 31 as per the guidelines laid down by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA).A senior official aware of the developments said, “We did give some thoughts about resuming operations of the Rapid Metro since it runs only within the city, but all metro rail services across India are to remain shut. We may consider resuming operations after May 31.” Autorickshaws have also not yet been permitted to ply within the district so far. “Until now, there has been no official state order allowing autorickshaws to ply, even though as per MHA guidelines they are allowed to run in ‘orange zones,’” Yogesh Sharma, head, Gurugram-based Haryana Auto Chalak Sangathan, said. “Only those autos affiliated with private cab aggregators have resumed operations so far, and those working independently are waiting for state orders to be issued,” he added. In a new addition, app-based cab operators on Monday resumed bike-taxi services in Gurugram, which remains classified as an ‘orange zone.’ Residents on Monday were able to book bike-taxis to various locations within the city via both Ola and Uber apps. Representatives from the two companies declined to comment and said they were waiting for official orders from the Haryana government before giving a statement. Meanwhile, private cabs and vehicles will be allowed to ply in Gurugram with not more than two passengers and a driver, as was the case earlier.VS Kundu, additional chief secretary to the Haryana government and nodal officer for monitoring Covid-19 efforts in Gurugram, said, “There will be no change in the previous rules for now. Private cab aggregators will continue to ply, but given the recent surge in cases, maintaining social distancing is still the need of the hour. The city-bus service and Rapid Metro will remain closed for the time being. The state government will issue further clarification on inter-district and inter-state movement.” In a video statement released on Twitter on Monday evening, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said that both intra-state and inter-state bus services will resume in the state from Tuesday. Last week, Haryana Roadways had already started operating buses on select routes between 10 districts in Haryana and bus service with certain restrictions in other districts is expected to start soon.However, no buses will run between Delhi and Gurugram, and Faridabad, and only people with passes will be allowed to move across the Delhi-Gurugram border. District authorities are yet to issue guidelines on whether buses would be allowed to run between Gurugram and Faridabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/no-metro-or-gurugam-buses-till-may-31-bike-taxi-services-resume/story-VWH4Ihdj4gvmEpaRW9jKpJ.html
18-05-2020||Gurugram||One killed, another injured in open firing||A group of unidentified men on Monday morning allegedly opened fired at two men, both with criminal records, who were travelling in a car in Taj Nagar village in Farrukhnagar. The police said that one of the men sustained gunshot injury on his head and died at the spot, while the other sustained injuries on his hand and is currently undergoing treatment at a hospital. A preliminary probe into the matter suggests that the reason behind the incident was a financial dispute between one of the two victims and his business partner, who is the prime accused in the case.According to the police, the victims were identified by their first names as Ravinder alias Sarkar, 31, from Taj Nagar village and Yashpal, 21, from Joniawas village. Ravinder and the prime accused in this case, Birender alias Kallu, were accused in the murder case of one Mahendra Singh, who was the sarpanch of Taj Nagar village. The incident had taken place in March 2011 and both Ravinder and Birender got out of jail on bail in 2016, after which they started business together. The police said that both the men are involved in nine criminal cases each and Yashpal, the deceased, was involved in three criminal cases.According to the police, on Monday morning, Ravinder and Yashpal, were travelling in their Maruti Suzuki Swift car in Taj Nagar village when some unidentified men came in a car and fired gunshots at them.Rajesh Singh, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Manesar, said, “Yashpal sustained a fatal gunshot injury on his head and died at the spot. Ravinder sustained at least three gunshot injuries on his hand. His condition is reported to be stable and he is undergoing treatment at a hospital.”A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said that Ravinder and Birender were partners in multiple business ventures, including real estate. “Due to the lockdown there were issues of cash flow and a financial dispute emerged between them. A preliminary probe suggests that this was the main reason behind the murder. We have booked Birender and three other persons, including a woman in the case. They are yet to be arrested. We are investigating the matter,” the official said.A case was registered against the accused under sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 120b (criminal conspiracy) and 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Arms Act at Farrukhnagar police station on Monday.In another incident, a 40-year-old man was arrested on Sunday for allegedly murdering a man with an iron rod after an argument at a construction site in Sector 90.The arrested man was identified as Mohammed Shaukat, who is a native of Bihar. The police said that he and the victim, Mangaldas, worked as masons at the construction site and were living there with other masons. Sanjay, station house officer (SHO), Sector 10 police station, said that on Saturday around 9.30 pm, the victim returned to the construction site in an inebriated condition. “The victim was misbehaving with other workers at the site. Shaukat, who was present at the spot, hit him with an iron road on his leg in order to scare him. However, the injury was severe and the victim died in the hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/one-killed-another-injured-in-open-firing/story-eQY6xFoCubNZzzm5DdNnVL.html
18-05-2020||Gurugram||Economic activities to resume, restrictions at Delhi-Ggm border to stay||As the nationwide lockdown entered its fourth phase on Monday with considerable relaxations, all areas in Haryana except for containment zones would be classified as ‘orange zones’ where all economic activities permitted by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) will be allowed, the state government said on Tuesday. However, the restrictions imposed on the movement of people along the Delhi borders will continue like before, and only those with passes issued by the district authorities will be allowed to enter the state.These announcements were made by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar in a video message shared on Monday evening on microblogging site Twitter.Movement of inter-state and inter-district buses would also be allowed from Tuesday, he said. In the third phase of the lockdown, Haryana Roadways buses had already started plying in ten districts, and the rest of the districts are expected to see the movement of buses in light of the announcement.In the video message, CM Khattar also indicated that the state was slowly moving towards the resumption of economic activities under strict social distancing norms. The Haryana government, however, did not issue any fresh set of guidelines or a detailed notification customising the directives issued by the MHA on Sunday. A spokesperson of Gurugram district administration said the curbs on movement in the city will remain same as before as Gurugram was an ‘orange zone’ already. “Until new guidelines or a fresh notification is issued, the situation will remain the same in Gurugram,” he said. The nationwide lockdown has been extended till May 31.The CM, however, expressed concern that four districts in Haryana—Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat and Jhajjar—which border Delhi were a cause of concern due to their high number of Covid-19 cases. The CM said because of the high number of cases, strict restrictions on the movement of people from Delhi into Haryana will continue.“Entry of people from Delhi or Noida will remain restricted and only those people who have passes issued by the authorities will be allowed entry. Several government departments, private institutions and hospitals have given us a list of employees to whom passes have been issued,” Khattar said adding that the main focus was to stop the spread of coronavirus.However, as of Monday night (around 10 pm), the online portal to reserve tickets for Haryana Roadways buses (which is mandatory for bookings) offered options for booking bus journeys from Delhi to certain districts which do not share their border with the national capital. Tickets were available for travelling between Delhi and Hisar, Fatehabad, Panchkula, Narnaul, Kaithal, Palwal, Sirsa, Bhiwani, and Ambala on May 19.As per directions issued by the district administration, a person who lives in Delhi but works in Gurugram will have to get a pass from authorities in Delhi. In case, residents of Gurugram want to travel for work in Delhi will have to apply for a weekly pass on the Saral Haryana portal. A person who lives in Noida and works in Gurugram will have to get a pass from the Uttar Pradesh government, which shall be honoured by authorities in Haryana. The district administration also assured that passes issued to health workers shall be given priority and they will be assisted in this matter by officials concerned.To ensure economic activities resume in the state, CM Khattar said that large industrial areas outside containment zones in Gurugram and Faridabad will be allowed to resume industrial and commercial activities under in the fourth phase on the lockdown. “Restrictions will remain in containment zones, but in areas such as IMT Manesar industry owners can resume operations but with strict social distancing norms,” he said.As per the MHA guidelines, the movement of people in and out of containment zones is restricted. except for medical emergencies or when in need of essential items. No economic activities are allowed in these zones.The restriction on the number of employees that a commercial or industrial unit can employ during lockdown has also been done away with. “There is no restriction on the number of employees in Haryana now as MHA has done away with it,” he said. Referring to the impending summer season, the CM said that directions have been issued to ensure that the electricity supply in the state is regular. “We held a review meeting with the power department and asked officials to ensure regular electricity supply,” said Khattar. The state government has also given directions to issue 5,000 tube-well connections, and complaints regarding excess or wrong electricity bills are looked into.“Consumers can call at helpline number 1912 to rectify the bills,” he said. The CM also announced that the parole of as many as 6,000 jail inmates, who were released earlier, has been extended for another six weeks in view of the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/economic-activities-to-resume-restrictions-at-delhi-ggm-border-to-stay/story-AJi7q632mcONrzQ4HWzojN.html
18-05-2020||Gurugram||Seven new Covid-19 cases in Gurugram; total count reaches 211||Seven new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were reported across the city, from places such as Sirhaul, Bhawani Enclave, Sector 18, Gandhi Nagar, Devi Nagar, Vikas Nagar and Ravi Nagar. The number of persons infected with the disease has reached 211, out of which 114 have been discharged, while 97 are still undergoing treatment. Presently, Gurugram has the highest number of cases across the state. In Bhawani Enclave three cases have been reported till now, while in Sirhaul over 16 Covid-19 cases have been reported. Both have been declared as containment zones. According to district health bulletin, the case reported from Bhawani Enclave was in close contact with a positive case. Areas like Vikas Nagar and Gandhi Nagar are new areas where single cases were reported on Monday. Health department officials were unavailable for comment. As per the district health bulletin, test results for 263 samples are awaited. At least 33 people are currently under surveillance at quarantine facilities, while three Covid-19 patients are under home isolation after being confirmed positive. The state government has issued the guidelines for home isolation, which is only permitted after the health team ensures the patient can be kept in a separate room while other family members can also be quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/seven-new-covid-19-cases-in-gurugram-total-count-reaches-211/story-aWeh2a48iqTtleygpwFLdO.html
18-05-2020||City||3 deaths, 10 fresh cases in Punjab, tally reaches 2,059||Three persons found infected with the coronavirus died while 10, including a 30-year-old junior resident doctor of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Amritsar, were tested positive for the disease in Punjab on Monday, taking the state’s death toll to 38 and the number of confirmed cases to 2,059. In Kapurthala, a 50-year-old, man from Bagria village succumbed to the disease at the civil hospital. He was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Jalandhar and was shifted to the civil hospital with influenza-like symptoms on Saturday. His sample was taken on Sunday and he was diagnosed with the virus in the report that came on Monday. He passed away a few hours later. The district has reported 33 cases, including three deaths. A 35-year-old man from Hoshiarpur district’s Tanda sub-division died at a private hospital in Jalandhar on Sunday evening. He was being treated for some kidney-related complications, the health officials said.The patient, Lakhwinder Singh, was admitted to the Jalandhar hospital on May 16 and his swab sample was sent for examination the same day. The test report came after his death.Also, two persons of Sotla village in the district, who recently returned from Dubai and were under quarantine, tested positive for the virus.Pathankot man tested -ve twiceA Covid 19 patient (42) from Pathankot, who was under treatment at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Amritsar, breathed his last on Monday morning. The patient, who had been suffering from tuberculosis and related problems, had tested negative for the coronavirus twice a few days ago. Dr Shiv Charan, the head of the medicine department at GMCH, said, “The patient was earlier tested positive for Covid-19 and was also suffering from TB. He was severely ill when referred to GMCH. On May 16 and 17, he was tested negative for Covid-19 in two consecutive tests.”GMCH junior doc under observation The GMCH junior resident doctor, who belongs to Sirsa district in Haryana, was deputed in the surgery department and also helped doctors in treating Covid-19 patients. He was quarantined after he complained of cough and fever last week. His swab samples were taken and sent for testing. “The junior doctor is stable now. We are tracing other doctors who have come in his contact and will collect their samples for testing,” said civil surgeon Jugal Kishore.This is the second incident of a GMC staff member getting infected.9-year-old among 2 infected in FaridkotIn Faridkot district, two persons, including a nine-year-old, who returned from Takht Sri Hazur Sahib in Maharashtra’s Nanded, tested positive for the coronavirus on Monday, taking the district’s tally to 62.“Both are asymptomatic. They were among Hazur Sahib returnees whose fresh swab samples were sent for testing after results of their previous samples were reported inconclusive,” civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said. Two cases each in Jalandhar, PatialaTwo men, a 28-years-old of Nahal village and 39-year-old of Chak village, who returned from Dubai, tested positive for Covid-19 in Jalandhar district on Monday. A total of 214 coronavirus cases, including six deaths, reported in the district so far. Of the 5,949 samples collected in the district, 5,263 tested negative while results of 289 are still awaited, a health official said. Besides, three doctors, who were tested positive in Jalandhar, recovered from the disease on Monday.A 24-year-old man from Gandhi Colony and a 30-year-old from Shiv Colony, who returned from Maharashtra were tested positive in Rajpura town of Patiala district. They were shifted to the Government Rajindera Hospital and their contact tracing was on. Samples of six of their family members were taken.Also, a 50-year-old woman from Thikriwal village in Gurdaspur district tested positive for the disease after she came in contact with her 82-year- old father-in-law, a Covid-19 patient, who was receiving treatment in Ludhiana. She was admitted to the community health centre in Dhariwal.(Inputs from Amritsar, Faridkot, Jalandhar, Patiala and Gurdaspur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-deaths-10-fresh-cases-in-punjab-tally-reaches-2-059/story-mk61KSSiLLspaxpnGkRjxK.html
18-05-2020||Gurugram||Hundreds without movement passes turned away at border||Traffic congestion was witnessed at the Delhi-Gurugram border on Wednesday morning as the city police continued to restrict the entry of people without a movement pass. On the first day of the fourth phase of the lockdown, several office-goers could not reach their offices and were turned away as they did not have the requisite pass. They said they were hoping for relaxation in curbs so they could gain passage to the city.Earlier in the first week of May, the police had changed the layout of deployment at the Sirhaul border by placing barricades 100 metres before the border to ensure smoother movement of vehicles.The police said that since they had to barricade several lanes to check for movement passes, vehicles were permitted to use only two lanes, which led to congestion over 100 metres long at the border between 8am and 9am. At least two policemen deputed at the Sirhaul border said that they had to turn away about 500 motorcyclists and 50 car owners as they failed to show them the requisite documents.The authorities sealed the borders connecting the two states in the last week of April and allowed only those engaged in essential services with valid passes to enter. Two weeks later, the administration permitted medical professionals, health care professionals and people associated with emergency services to cross the border without a movement pass.A police officer, requesting anonymity, said, “Many office employees said that they had assumed that restrictions on the interstate movement of passenger vehicles had been lifted, referring to an MHA order. However, we have not received any new guidelines. Only people who have the movement pass will be allowed to enter.”Rajesh Kumar, a Delhi resident, who works in Udyog Vihar, said, “I have been at home since the lockdown was announced in March. I heard yesterday that the government had allowed interstate commute. So, I decided to go to the office, hoping that the police would allow me through after checking my identity card. There is a lot of confusion and the police told me that a daily movement pass is still mandatory.”Ashok Yadav, who runs a taxi business, said, “I provide taxis to several offices in the city. The offices, which employ our services, have resumed operations, but most of the drivers stay in Delhi. Several of them were turned back today morning. Now, I have been asked to submit a list of their names and get daily movement passes made for them.”A senior traffic police officer, requesting anonymity, said that the traffic was cleared within 45 minutes. “A small queue had formed while checking for movement passes, which was cleared soon,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hundreds-without-movement-passes-turned-away-at-border/story-Mdb0yEozmc1zvmgzkj55UK.html
18-05-2020||Gurugram||Supervised movement, travel history documentation for domestic helpers returning to work||As the lockdown entered its fourth phase on Monday with considerable restrictions in non-containment zones, more condominiums are allowing the entry of domestic workers such as helpers, cooks and drivers. While some condominiums have asked residents to call domestic helpers on alternate days, others are accepting requests from only those keen on letting domestic helpers resume work in their households. At several places, people pushing for calling domestic helpers home are required to furnish information such as travel and health history of the domestic workers before they are allowed into the society premises to resume work.At Fresco Apartments in Nirvana Country, residents seeking the services of domestic workers are required to fill a request form with information such as name, contact, addresses, travel and health history of the worker and the worker’s family. Once the request is approved, the name of the worker is added to a list against which the guard makes enquiries on a daily basis before a worker is let inside the condominium. After corroborating the details of the worker with the list, residents are required to come down and escort them to the respective flat. Workers are not allowed to travel alone in the lift. Similarly, residents are required to escort workers while leaving the flat. “We started allowing domestic helpers to come in from today (Monday). Residents who were interested in letting domestic helpers work were asked to fill a Google form and make certain declarations following which entry of domestic workers was allowed,” said Nilesh Tandon, president of the condominium’s resident welfare association (RWA). The Retreat in South City-1 had allowed domestic helpers to work for senior citizens in the third phase of the lockdown even as only five or six residents opted for the choice. With the start of the fourth phase of the lockdown, the condominium has offered further relaxation and left it to the residents to call domestic helpers. “Not all residents, especially those with younger children, are open to the idea of letting domestic helpers work. However, for those who want the domestic helpers to work in their house, we have shared a three-page document seeking information about the workers,” said Abha Sharma, member of the condominium’s management committee. Residents are supposed to provide information about the health history, travel history of the domestic help, and confirm if the latter are coming from containment zones or not. Once the form is filled, it is submitted at the estate office that scrutinises the forms along with the security office. So far, around 30 people have filled these forms, said Sharma. Domestic helpers who have a smartphone have also been requested to download Aarogya Setu mobile app. “Residents are responsible for the health of domestic helpers and have been asked to provide them with masks, sanitisers and other protective equipment,” said Sharma.At DLF Westend Heights in Phase 5, domestic helps and cooks were allowed to enter the condominium on alternate days from Monday. Car cleaners and drivers, meanwhile, are allowed to come in daily but cannot enter the lobby or use the lift. The responsibility of verifying the travel and health history of the domestic helpers has been left up to the residents. “We are using a web application through which domestic helps are required to make an entry or mark their entry on a register. Domestic helps can come on alternate days. We are not sure what exact purpose this mechanism will serve though,” said Ritu Bhariok, a resident.As many as 70 domestic helper joined work at Princeton Estate on Monday, even as the RWA awaits guidelines from the district administration. “We have allowed domestic helpers to work from today, but we will only issue an advisory to residents once we remain specific district orders on domestic workers,” said Satish Nangia, RWA president of Princeton Estate. Nangia said the complex now has a separate lift for domestic workers to satisfthose residents who were do not want domestic helpers to work in the society. “We are advising those employing domestic helpers to ensure that all workers do not stand in close proximity to each other in the society. We are also recording the movement of each domestic worker, in case such a database needs to be looked into the future,” said Nangia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/supervised-movement-travel-history-documentation-for-domestic-helpers-returning-to-work/story-acn2R3sqpBy4ozg53GPfnO.html
18-05-2020||Gurugram||To seek appointment or lodge complaint, just send email to DTCP||In a bid to ensure that social distancing norms are followed and development work does not suffer, the department of town and country planning (DTCP) has created different email IDs to seek appointments, lodge complaints and get information on building plans, among other issues. DTCP officials said that the emails sent to them would elicit response within 24 hours and a dedicated team would be monitoring the communication with applicants.The department said on Monday that emails for pending permissions can be sent to pendingpermissiondtpe@gmail.com. Similarly, to lodge complaints and check their status, emails can be sent to complaintsdtpe@gmail.com, while to seek appointments, the mails should be sent to appointmentsdtpe@gmail.com. RS Bhath, district town planner, said that the purpose of these email IDs is to ensure office work is carried out smoothly and by maintaining the social distancing norms. “The objective now is to use online tools, so that people have minimal need to visit the DTP office. Meetings should be held on basis of prior appointments to avoid crowding,” he said. The department has also taken similar steps for the enforcement wing and complaints can be lodged online through the email ID shared with people.The department also said that it has come to its notice that construction work in violation of norms is being carried out in some parts of the city, which shall not be allowed. “We have issued a notice to a resident of Sector 104 for constructing an unauthorized room and a boundary wall in the revenue estate of village Gurgaon. It was also found that the said land is earmarked for construction of 24-metre road. Similar violations have been reported earlier also and these shall not be allowed to continue,” said Bhath.The officials said that they are particularly concerned over illegal construction on land earmarked for 24-metre roads as these are necessary for licensed colonies to get access to master roads as per the sectoral plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/to-seek-appointment-or-lodge-complaint-just-send-email-to-dtcp/story-wSX7UIuUSemXZUdY0VVGZN.html
18-05-2020||Gurugram||Migrant worker kills self after landlord forces him to pay rent||A 45-year-old migrant worker died after allegedly consuming poison at his rented room in Sector 11 early Sunday morning. The police said that a suicide note was recovered from the spot in which the migrant worker alleged that his landlord was harassing him for the rent. In the police complaint, his neighbour also alleged that his landlord was forcibly demanding rent from him. The landlord was later booked by the police for abetment to suicide. The police said that the migrant worker’s family members, who stay in Odisha, have refused to collect his body as they are in a containment zone.According to the police, the deceased man worked as a plumber in Gurugram and lived by himself. On Sunday, around 6am, his neighbour, who stays in the same building, came to his room to wake him up.The neighbour stated in the police complaint, “Around 6 am, I went to his room to wake him up. I kept knocking on his door but he did not open it. I got suspicious and then asked our landlord, who stays on the ground floor, to come over and check. When there was still no answer, we called the police helpline number and broke into the room.” He added that the deceased man’s body was lying on the floor and there was an empty packet of poison next to it. “Two days ago, he (the victim) had told me that the landlord was troubling him and forcibly demanding rent from him. He was stressed and killed himself by consuming poison,” the complainant stated in the FIR.Ajit, assistant sub-inspector (ASI), Shivaji Nagar police station, said that the deceased man would pay around ₹6,000 as rent. “The preliminary probe suggests that the victim owed around ₹30,000 to his landlord as rent. He was a plumber and was not able to get work because of the lockdown. We have registered a case against the landlord and he is yet to be arrested. We are investigating the matter.”A case was registered against the landlord under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Shivaji Nagar police station on Sunday.In April, the Haryana Government had issued directions stating that landlords should not demand house rent for a month from migrant workers, students and paramedics in rural areas of the state. In the order, the authorities had said that if any landlord was found forcing such tenants to vacate, they would be liable to face strict criminal action. On March 29, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had issued an order asking landlords to stop demanding rent from students, workers and migrant labourers for a month.Despite the measures taken, tenants continue to face harassment from the landlords with repeated warnings. In April, at least seven landlords were arrested and booked for forcibly demanding rent from tenants in the city. The police said that they have kept the deceased man’s body in the mortuary and have contacted his family. However, they have refused to come to Gurugram and collect the body.“The man’s relatives said that he had run away from home around 30 years ago. Since then they have rarely talked to each other. On Sunday, when we informed them about the incident, the relatives said that they can’t afford to come to Gurugram,” the ASI said.The man’s relatives alleged that he had called them on April 3 and informed them that he was having financial issues and was not able to pay rent.“He rarely called us. The last time he came to visit us was 10 years ago after he met with an accident. He did not even come for his father’s funeral. Recently, he called us and said that he wanted to come home as he was facing financial issues. We told him that he could come, but would have to stay in quarantine for 14 days as Gurugram and Delhi have a large number of Covid-19 cases. We can’t come to collect his body as we are living in a containment zone and do not have enough money for the travel,” one of his relatives said on the phone. He added that they are trying to trace his wife and children and would ask them to collect the body.“The man had informed his family that he was married and had children. But the relatives said that they never got an opportunity to talk to them and have no information about them. We are trying to persuade the family members to come to Gurugram,” the ASI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/migrant-worker-kills-self-after-landlord-forces-him-to-pay-rent/story-JCoG99zABLBe0r585SfoJP.html
18-05-2020||City||Government extends C-DAC e-Sanjeevani OPD platform to rural areas: Ludhiana civil surgeon||The Punjab government has extended the e-Sanjeevani–Online OPD (doctor to patient) programme, an integrated telemedicine solution developed by C-DAC, Mohali, to cover rural areas and isolated community pockets as well. The aim is to ensure uninterrupted health services to the public in Punjab at their doorsteps in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga said, “Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu has directed the platform to extend its specialised healthcare services to the masses in rural areas and isolated community pockets as well.”He said e-Sanjeevani provides a platform for citizens to connect with a network of specialist doctors over video conferencing and obtain medical treatment and advice for common health-related issues from home.Dr Bagga said, “Besides telemedicine services in health and wellness centres, the health & family welfare department, with active support from the governance reforms and public grievances departments, has also implemented this programme across the state.”The salient features of e-Sanjeevani OPD include patient registration, token generation, queue management, audio-video consultation with a doctor, e-prescription, SMS/email notifications, services of the state’s doctors (from the department of health & family welfare), free service, fully configurable (number of daily slots, doctors/clinics, waiting room slots, consultation time limits, etc). The application also has an advanced degree of security against unwanted elements.Dr Bagga added, “To keep the operations smoother at the district level, the department of governance reforms and public grievances has deputed district technical coordinators (DTCs) or district e-governance coordinators (DeGCs) from each district to assist the teams of doctors at the district level.”He said doctors in Punjab have been using the e-Sanjeevani (doctor to doctor) system for over a decade now, hence they would not take much time to adopt the e-Sanjeevani platform as well.The platform has an extremely user-friendly interface, which facilitates both tech-savvy and relatively novice doctors/users in the rural and urban environment to access the application, Dr Bagga said.He said to avail the benefits of “e-sanjeevani-opd”, a patient/person should have a computer, laptop or tablet (tab) along with a separate or inbuilt webcam, microphone, speakers and access to a 2mbps or faster internet connection (LAN/WiFi).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/government-extends-c-dac-e-sanjeevani-opd-platform-to-rural-areas-ludhiana-civil-surgeon/story-lilyUgJme05qZ4LJCK8VRL.html
18-05-2020||Lucknow||‘40% of hotels, restaurants in UP may wind up by year end’||The nationwide lockdown to check spread of Covid-19 pandemic has hit hotel industry across the country, including Uttar Pradesh, the most. So much so that around 40 percent restaurants and hotels in UP are likely to wind up business by the year end, say experts of hospitality business. Recommendations of UPHRAExercise duties, water and electricity bills should be waived for the next three months.Religious and heritage tourism can be promoted through online platforms in Uttar PradeshIt may take 18 months for international tourism to revive6-12 months of time expected for UP tourism and hospitality sector to reviveGovernment must release an immediate fund which will support 50 percent salary to staff of hotels and restaurants.GST holiday for all travel professionals and deferment payment of EPFPackage required in comparison to other states for the survival of UP hospitality industryUttar Pradesh Hotel and Restaurant Association (UPHRA) has around 5500 members, including small, big restaurants, five and seven star hotels. The hotel and restaurant industry employ directly and indirectly 50 lakh to 60 lakh people in Uttar Pradesh alone.“According to an estimate of the UPHRA, since the nationwide lockdown began, the hotel and restaurant sector in Uttar Pradesh alone is losing around Rs 350 crore to Rs 500 crore revenue respectively per month,” said Garish Oberoi, general secretary, UPHRA. Facts in figuresHotels, restaurants only in religious tourism cities like Ayodhya will be able to surviveAround 50 lakh to 60 lakh are directly or indirectly associated with hotel and restaurant industry in UP aloneAround Rs 350 crore per month revenue loss to hotel and restaurant sector in UP “Hotels and restaurants fall in leisure category. In times of crisis like Covid-19 pandemic, they do not even figure last in the priority list,” added Oberoi.Hotels are labour intensive and they have lot of fixed costs like wages, minimum electricity bill and maintenance cost besides repayment of loans of banks.The UPHRA has requested the Yogi government to put a moratorium on loan instalments for a year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/40-of-hotels-restaurants-in-up-may-wind-up-by-year-end/story-HdUz2imftrVtp6kccwIxLJ.html
18-05-2020||City||Tourism aspirants get tips to excel in industry||Students of the School of Hotel Management, Airlines and Tourism, CT University (CTU), on Monday participated in a webinar on ‘Survival strategies for young tourism aspirants post lockdown and global pandemic’. Assistant professor from Amity University, Noida, Swati Sharma, who was the guest speaker for the session, said, “The upcoming time will be that of when certainty will be uncertain and we have to plan strategic actions for that. Travel industry has to demonstrate humanity, resilience, solidarity and leadership in these extraordinary times.” She said the students need to learn working for customer satisfaction, grow their network through social media, create their unique selling point and master any one art to work in the industry in the coming days. The expert also encouraged the students to attend various international workshops, attend short courses and master any international language to excel in their chosen career in the future. Head of the School of Hotel Management, Airlines and Tourism, Amit Kumar, said the speaker also gave the students tips to appear in interviews for the travel industry and motivated them to move beyond their comfort zone.CTU vice-chancellor Harsh Sadawarti said that discussing such topics is the need of hour for better understanding of the students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tourism-aspirants-get-tips-to-excel-in-industry/story-ztd1ASL3q4RV8mf4rdMthI.html
18-05-2020||Delhi||Teacher tests positive, nine contacts sent to home quarantine||After a teacher, who was distributing ration at a school in Adarsh Nagar, tested Covid-19 positive on Sunday, nine employees of the North Municipal Corporation, including five teachers, were sent to home quarantine on Monday.According to district administration officials, a 42-year-old female teacher, deputed for distributing dry ration at a municipal primary school in Adarsh Nagar, tested positive.“The teacher underwent a Covid-19 test last week and as per the report released on Sunday, she tested positive for the virus. Those who have come in contact with the patient have been asked to observe home quarantine. Further contact tracing is underway. Samples of those under quarantine will be collected soon,” said a north district administration official, requesting anonymity.Jagdish Prasad, assistant director (education), north corporation, in an order released on Monday, said that nine staff members at the ration distribution centre have directly or indirectly come in contact with the Covid-19 positive teacher and so, have been sent to home-quarantine for 14 days.“The school was shut on Monday for sanitisation. The building has been sanitised. The ration distribution will resume from Tuesday,” Prasad said.Kuldeep Khatri, president, Nagar Nigam Shikshak Nyaya Manch, said that teachers getting infected with coronavirus has become the “new normal” as they are working on the frontlines “without proper gear”. He said that nearly 28 teachers have tested Covid-19 positive across the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/teacher-tests-positive-nine-contacts-sent-to-home-quarantine/story-oGZoL90AH4JZQCHM7QZoWL.html
18-05-2020||Delhi||Can I to go to office? Are restaurants open?: Delhi lockdown 4.0 FAQs answered||The Delhi government has eased several restrictions in the fourth phase of the lockdown, allowing public transport and conditional opening of marketplaces What’s the big change for the city?Public transport such as buses, cabs, auto-rickshaws and e-rickshaws will run after over 50 days, and all marketplaces except malls open. Am I allowed to go to office?Yes, all government and private offices in Delhi will open. Curbs on private establishments asking them to function with 33% of staff in office have been lifted. However, the government advises firms to encourage people to work from home to the extent possible.Are there restrictions on driving to workplace?No, private cars have been allowed, but there could be a maximum of two passengers and a driver on board. Two-wheelers are allowed, but not pillion riding.Does that mean people are allowed to move around freely?Yes, but only during the day. The night curfew on non-essential travel between 7pm and 7am continues.Am I allowed to visit a friend?The guidelines do not prohibit such a visit. But social distancing is a must in public places and during interactions. Also, social, religious and political gatherings are banned.Will trains resume operations?Only special premium trains and those being run to ferry migrants are allowed for now.What about Delhi Metro services?Delhi Metro will not function.Will buses operate with full capacity?No, each bus can have a maximum of 20 passengers.What about interstate buses?According to the Centre’s guidelines, passenger vehicles and buses will require “mutual consent” of the states and the Union Territories involved.Are there conditions on the movement of taxis and cabs?They can have a maximum of two passengers; no pool/share services are allowed.What about auto-rickshaws, e-rickshaws and cycle rickshaws?The maximum occupancy capacity for them is one passenger per vehicle.Will shopping malls and cinema halls, theatres be open now?No, they are banned across the country.Will schools, colleges and coaching centres resume?No.Am I allowed to go to a barber shop or a salon?No, they will not open in the city immediately.Will sporting events resume?Stadiums will open, but spectators are not allowed inside.Are restaurants open?Yes, but only for takeaway services and home deliveries.What is the rule for markets?All shops in marketplaces can open, but they will have to follow an odd-even formula. This means half the shops will open on one day, and the other half on the next day and so on. Shops selling essentials, however, will be exempt.Are there curbs on weddings and funerals?Gatherings will have to be limited to 50 people for weddings and 20 people for funerals.Will construction work resume?Yes, but the builder/contractor has to ensure that all labourers are from Delhi. Trans-border movement of labourers is prohibited.Will industrial activities resume?Yes, but enterprises will have to implement staggered timings.Are plumbers, electricians, AC servicemen and house helps allowed?Yes, they continue to be allowed.Are these relaxations applicable across Delhi?Yes, but containment zones will not get any exemptions. Doorstep delivery of essential goods will be ensured in these places with strict perimeter control. At present, Delhi has 73 containment zones.What else do I need to know?People aged 65 and above, children aged 10 or less, pregnant women and people with underlying health conditions are advised to stay indoors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/can-i-to-go-to-office-are-restaurants-open-delhi-lockdown-4-0-faqs-answered/story-84n5ngp9gJtyvHjcCKXwQM.html
18-05-2020||City||Panvel records 2 deaths, 12 new cases||Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) recorded 12 new Covid cases on Monday, with the total reaching 271. A 54-year-old man from Kalamboli and a 57-year-old man from Kamothe died after being infected. Among the new cases are three family members of an engineer, who had tested positive earlier. They live in Kharghar.Three members of a family from Kamothe have tested positive. Their family head, who is a cashier at BEST depot at Sion, had tested positive earlier.A 30-year-old BMC sanitation worker from Kamothe, a 53-year-old police personnel working in Naigaon and living in Kharghar, a 32-year-old JJ Hospital nurse, from Kamothe, and a 36-year-old Turbhe traffic police personnel living in Kalamboli have tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panvel-records-2-deaths-12-new-cases/story-sT0JNd6AssZFFBKa26fCZI.html
18-05-2020||City||Kidney patients test positive at shelter near AIIMS||New Delhi: Two outstation kidney disease patients, who had come to the national capital for treatment at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and were housed at a Delhi government-run shelter near the hospital, were found to be Covid-19 positive on Monday, district officials said.According to B M Mishra, district magistrate (South), the two patients have been admitted at the Lok Nayak Hospital and their wives have been sent to an institutional quarantine facility. Besides, the health department has been asked to shift 40 other patients at the shelter, who are high-risk contacts, to be put under hospital care.The Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) shelter no.148 has around 98 occupants, of which 40 are patients who will be put under in-situ quarantine.“The two who tested positive are kidney patients and used to go for dialysis. We have informed the health department to shift other 40 patients with co-morbidities, who are at a greater risk of contracting infection to be shifted to hospitals for immediate care,” said Mishra. One of the shelter caretakers, who did not wish to be named, said that the two patients belonged to Gwalior (MP) and Jhansi (UP), respectively. The occupants are at risk because all of them share the common toilet facility. “The two used to go for dialysis at a private facility, which had asked them to get their Covid tests done. Many patients from the shelter had already left for their native places over the past weeks, otherwise it would have been a bigger risk,” he said.Sunil Kumar Aledia, a social activist, who works for the homeless, said that in such cases the district authorities must conduct Covid tests for the caretakers as well as all the occupants, as they share common facilities and run a high risk of contracting the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kidney-patients-test-positive-at-shelter-near-aiims/story-gNQXJF54IvJ2ifwKYWxstO.html
18-05-2020||City||TMC puts up rate chart outside private hospitals||Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has put up a list of charges for rooms and services provided to Covid patients. A board with a detailed price break-up has been put up by TMC outside private hospital.“We have formed a team of officials to ensure patients are not overcharged. We have put up boards outside private hospitals so that people know the charges,” said Vijay Singhal, TMC commissioner.The TMC has asked private hospitals to ₹4000 a day for general ward, twin-sharing room ₹5,000, single room ₹7,000 and ICU charges are ₹10,000 a day. This includes doctor’s visit, room and nursing charges, PPE kits and food for patient. Ventilator charges will be an additional ₹2,000 a day. Surgical requirements and medicines will be charged separately but with 15% concession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tmc-puts-up-rate-chart-outside-private-hospitals/story-i0PPqPlXJ1UEPvUnKqDxkM.html
18-05-2020||Lucknow||With ‘clean politics’, political parties in UP lay stress on Covid-19 shield||The term ‘clean politics’ has acquired a new meaning in these coronavirus-afflicted times. Political parties have started putting in place a mechanism that reflects increasing consciousness among them about the need to continue with Covid safety protocols in their offices even when the lockdown, which has been extended till May 31, ends.Already, seating arrangements are being reworked at the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) office in Uttar Pradesh. A sanitation or disinfectant tunnel is the latest addition to the BJP office through which all entrants would have to pass. Automated sanitiser machine with sensors at various places in the party office is an added novelty. A mask vending machine is also in place at the party office to help those walking in without a face cover. Wearing a mask or face cover has been made mandatory in the state. Violation of this norm would lead to a fine ranging from Rs 100 to Rs 1000. “All entrants would be subjected to a thermal scan,” UP BJP general secretary Vijay Bahadur Pathak said.The state government has banned large public gatherings in Uttar Pradesh till June 30. During the lockdown, the BJP has been relying on technology to connect with its cadres and functionaries over an online platform. Its state general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal has been operating from the party office while state chief Swatantra Dev Singh has been connecting with cadres from home.BJP state general secretaries Govind Narayan Shukla and Vijay Bahadur Pathak, who were seen entering the party office and passing through the disinfectant tunnel, said the party was preparing for the post lockdown phase.“As a responsible political party, we are putting in place a seating arrangement which would ensure that even post lockdown we follow social distancing during work,” said the BJP’s Manish Dixit.Outside the Congress office, workers were seen providing sanitisers to everyone entering the office. “We have got sanitisers and masks at our party office. In fact, our leader Priyanka Gandhi has sent one lakh masks for cadre and commoners alike,” said Congress’s Lallan Kumar. The main opposition Samajwadi Party (SP) says it put the mask-sanitiser drill in place at the party office since February.“At our office, the social distancing drill is followed. Masks and sanitisers are being used since February. The party office is closed due to lockdown, but when it opens we will ensure that our entire office is sanitised. Even today, we have a sanitiser in each room,” said Samajwadi Party’s Ashish Yadav ‘Sonu’. The Bahujan Samaj Party too claims to be ensuring cleanliness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/with-clean-politics-political-parties-in-up-lay-stress-on-covid-19-shield/story-GvcJGJkObdjDXyA1RgmriN.html
18-05-2020||City||No new case in Panchkula for three days, only two active cases||The district reported no new Covid-19 case for the third day in a row on Monday.Two persons – a 63-year-old woman from Sector 10 and a 56-year-old man from Sector 21, were the last to test positive on May 15, taking the total count of positive cases to 25. However, the male patient has been in isolation at home as he tested negative in the second sample.Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said, “There are presently two active cases in the district. We are adopting the latest guidelines and the case of the Sector 21 resident is being taken care of as per protocol. The patient is home isolated, as he tested negative hours after testing positive. Though he is being screened on a daily basis, he does not fall in the category of active cases.” Dr Kaur said two active cases were those of the Sector 10 woman and a 44-year-old milk vendor-cum-confectioner of Rajiv Colony near Sector 17. He had tested positive on May 8, after the district had no new case for 18 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-new-case-in-panchkula-for-three-days-only-two-active-cases/story-mWBWhfoivYfBbvQRgfxZiL.html
18-05-2020||City||J&K admn notifies domicile rules for jobs, other privileges||The administration on Monday notified Jammu and Kashmir Grant of Domicile Certificate (Procedure) Rules, 2020.These Rules prescribe the procedure for issuance of domicile certificate which has been made the basic eligibility condition for appointment to any post under the Union territory following amendments in the Jammu and Kashmir Civil Services (Decentralisation and Recruitment) Act, 2010.Under the domicile rules, all those persons and their children who have resided for 15 years in J&K or have studied for seven years and appeared in Class 10 or 12 examinations in an educational institution in the UT are eligible for grant of domicile. Children of central government officials, All India Service Officers, officials of PSUs and autonomous body of the Centre, Public Sector Banks, officials of statutory bodies, central universities and recognised research institutes of the Union government, who have served in the UT for a total period of 10 years will also be eligible for domicile status in the UT. Besides, all those migrants and their children who are registered with relief and rehabilitation commissioner will be granted a domicile certificate. Children of those residents of Jammu and Kashmir who reside outside the Union territory in connection with their employment of business or other professional or vocational reasons have also become eligible for grant of domicile status.The rules provide a simple and time-bound procedure for the issuance of the domicile certificate so that no one is put to any inconvenience. There shall be a timeline of 15 days for issuance of the certificate after which the applicant shall be free to approach an Appellate Authority.The decision of the appellate authority shall be binding upon the issuing authority and the orders of the authority are to be complied within seven days, failing which the defaulting officer shall be liable for a penalty of ₹50,000 out of their salary.Kashmiri migrants can get the Domicile certificate on the production of either a PRC or a certificate of registration of migrants.The government has also constituted a committee to accelerate recruitment to government vacancies and to ensure transparency, inclusiveness, and speed and that the committee has been asked to identify the vacancies for being filled up on an immediate basis with priority to Class IV vacancies. The committee will also ensure that necessary sanctions are obtained, rules are notified and any hitches in the recruitment process are removed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-admn-notifies-domicile-rules-for-jobs-other-privileges/story-ftCPzLOK5eucL1Jq9w7oRK.html
18-05-2020||City||Govt evacuates 57,648 J&K residents through Lakhanpur||The administration has evacuated 57,648 residents of J&K, stranded in various other states and UTs in the wake of coronavirus enforced lockdown, through Lakhanpur besides bringing back about 12,825 people through special trains at Jammu and Udhampur railway stations. As per the detailed break-up, 2,782 stranded passengers have entered through Lakhanpur from May 17 to May 18, while 850 passengers have reached today in the fifth special train in Jammu besides 519 passengers have reached Udhampur railway station from Tamil Nadu.So far, five trains have reached Jammu with a total of 4,618 stranded passengers belonging to different districts while 8,207 passengers have reached Udhampur in nine special trains, so far.As per the official communiqué, of 57,648 returnees evacuated through Lakhanpur till May 18, including 12,734 from Punjab; 19,308 from Himachal Pradesh, 21 from Andhra Pardesh, 5,370 from Delhi, 1,205 from Gujarat, 2,147 from Rajasthan, 3,428 from Haryana, 110 from Chattisgarh, 2,955 from Uttarakhand, 462 from Maharashtra, 3,719 from Uttar Pradesh, 42 from Odisha, 100 from Assam and 892 from Madhya Pradesh, 88 from Dehradun, 865 from Chandigarh, 635 from Telangana, 7 from Karnataka, 32 from Chennai, 236 from Bihar, 19 from West Bengal, 26 from Jharkhand and 3,247 from other states and UTs.Meanwhile, the government has also arranged Covid special train for residents stranded in Karnataka, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Moradabad in Uttar Pradesh.Additionally, the train service from Maharashtra, Kerala, Gujarat and Rajasthan is at its advanced stage while for North East and states in East the process is on. Also, the train service from J&K to different parts of the country would start from May 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-evacuates-57-648-j-k-residents-through-lakhanpur/story-Xtotd9mE04RiIpkzaA1pdJ.html
18-05-2020||City||J&K reports three Covid deaths, 106 fresh infections take count to 1,289||Three people died due to Covid-19 in the Valley on Monday, taking the death toll in Jammu and Kashmir to 16, officials said. Officials said two women, in their late 60s, and a 75-year-old man died at Srinagar’s Chest Diseases (CD) Hospital, where they were admitted for treatment of the disease.“The man had been shifted two days ago while the two women were shifted on Monday from Shri Maharaja Hari Singh (SMHS) hospital in a critical condition,” said Dr Saleem Tak, medical superintendent at the CD hospital. The man, a stroke patient, and one of the women, suffering from Thyroid cancer, were from south Kashmir’s Anantnag district. The other woman was from Kulgam district and was admitted at the surgical ICU of SMHS as a case of sub-dural hemorrhage. “She tested positive for Covid-19 in the morning and was shifted to CD hospital where she suffered a cardiac arrest and died,” said Dr Salim Khan, nodal officer for Covid-19 at Government Medical College, Srinagar.Meanwhile, 106 persons, including 55 police personnel and five doctors from three hospitals, tested positive for the virus in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday, taking the total number of cases in the Union territory to 1,289.Of the fresh infections, 94 were reported from Kashmir division- Srinagar, Anantnag, Kulgam, Bandipora, Baramulla, Shopian, Kupwara, Budgam, Ganderbal and Pulwama districts, where the tally has risen to 1,129. In Jammu division, 12 people from Ramban, Udhampur, Kathua,Rajouri, Poonch, Kishtwar, Doda and Jammu district have tested positive.Among the new cases are 55 police personnel from district police lines in Anantnag and five doctors from three hospitals in Srinagar.The test results of the doctors came a day after a 29-year-old woman, who was earlier treated at Shri Maharaja Hari Singh (SMHS) hospital by ENT specialists and then tested positive for Covid-19, died at the CD hospital.“Five doctors tested positive—four of them were treating a Covid positive patient. No one is immune to the infection. Please take precautions,” tweeted Dr Naveed Shah, head of chest medicine at CD hospital.Dr Salim Khan said three of the doctors are from the ENT department at SMHS, one from Government Dental College and one from SKIMS, Bemina.A jump of 59 cases was recorded in Anantnag, 12 in Srinagar and 12 in Kulgam while there were single digit jumps in rest of the districts of the Valley.Moreover, 34 more patients have recovered and were discharged from various hospitals of the Valley on Monday.Out of 1,289 positive cases—549 in Kashmir and 60 in Jammu division– have recovered so far. Active cases in Kashmir stand at 567 and 98 are in Jammu.Till date, 11,4788 people in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance—29,208 in home quarantine, 89 in hospital quarantine and 18,300 under home surveillance. Besides, 66,511 people have completed their 28-day surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-reports-three-covid-deaths-106-fresh-infections-take-count-to-1-289/story-bvaImxIeG4zGzDurV7tdGJ.html
18-05-2020||City||Himachal providing 25% subsidy on industrial projects worth ₹60 lakh: CM||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said that under the Mukhya Mantri Swavlamban Yojana, investment subsidy at 25% was being provided for projects having investment up to ₹60 lakh for youth and 30% for projects having investments up to ₹60 lakh for women entrepreneurs. He said that 5% interest subsidy would also be provided for a period of three years.Thakur was presiding over a meeting with various industrial associations regarding the roadmap for recovery of the industrial sector in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic here today.He said that the state government has also taken up the matter with the Centre for relaxation of the condition under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana under which the benefit of this scheme could be availed by those enterprises where 90% or more employees are drawing wages less than ₹15,000 per month, besides payment of wages of lockdown period from ESIC funds.CM added that the state government has also deferred demand charges of power by three months and power bill payment has been deferred without late fee by HPSEB. He said that the last date for filling acknowledgment of declaration under HP (Legacy Case Resolution) Scheme 2020 has been extended to September 30.An economic incentive of ₹50 thousand crores under ₹20 lakh crore economic package was offered by the Centre to ensure the availability of funds (liquidity) required for MSMEs, he said adding that this would encourage those wanting to set up new MSME units and those who are already incurring losses, due to certain reasons, would also get the facility to take an additional loan with this.CM said that there was also a provision to provide an amount of ₹3 lakh crore for giving loans to MSMEs, without any collateral security and this loan would be given for a period of four years and 100% guarantee would be given by the government. He said that up to one-year exemption would be provided for repayment of the principal amount of these loans. He expressed hope that with these incentives, the MSME in the state would get a boost in a big way.Thakur said that payment of 12% of employer and 12% employee contributions was being made into EPF accounts of eligible establishments under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana. He said that earlier this incentive was provisioned for the months of March, April and May which has now been extended up to August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-providing-25-subsidy-on-industrial-projects-worth-60-lakh-cm/story-XxYAbN2ErSXoveNcrasuiL.html
18-05-2020||City||Mohali recovers, just two active Covid-19 cases now||Two more Covid-19 patients were discharged in Mohali on Monday, bringing the number of active patients in the district to just two.No fresh case has been reported in the district since May 10.Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said two patients — a 26-year-old woman from Gharuan in Kharar and a Lalru man, aged 40 —were discharged from the Ludhiana civil Hospital after their recovery from the disease. The two patients still recovering are admitted at PGIMER, Chandigarh, he added.Meanwhile, on Monday, all 101 samples sent across the district returned negative results.So far, 105 cases have been confirmed in Mohali, of which 100 have been discharged, a recovery rate of 95%. Three patients, who had comorbidities, have died. “As a result of the painstaking efforts of the district administration and topnotch medical care provided by the health department, no new case has been reported in the district since May 10,” said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan.Regarding the status of quarantined persons, the DC said the quarantine period of 3,328 people was over, while 1,253 remained under quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-recovers-just-two-active-covid-19-cases-now/story-y4R7taNA12L6K2pcW0T5zO.html
18-05-2020||City||Salons, beauty parlours reopen with precautions||A majority of salons in the city reopened on the first day of lockdown 4.0 with precautions.The precautionary measures, according to salon owners, included sanitisation of salons, allowing entry to only one person at a time, providing only essential services to customers by appointments, no walk-in services, limited staff, preference to online payments, etc. The essential services, according to owners, are haircut, dyeing hair, waxing and threading.Pardeep Kumar, owner of Venus Salon in Sarabha Nagar, and also chairman of the Ludhiana Barber Association, said the association had issued guidelines to around 1,000 members of the association. These guidelines were recommended by the Georgia State Board of Cosmologists and Barbers for reopening barber shops and salons.The guidelines also recommended checking temperature of the client, limited number of people at a time in the salon, wearing a mask, gloves, eye shield, eye goggles, caps, neck strip along with other preventive measures, he said.‘NO WALK-INS, ONLY ONLINE PAYMENT’Abhay Girdhar, owner of Abhay’s Piazza Hair Beauty Make-up Salon and Academy, Mall Road, said, “We are taking all preventive measures and providing essential services to customers by appointment only. No walk-in customers are allowed. We are also checking the temperature of each client, and ensure that they are wearing masks, gloves and taking all measures for the safety of our staff as well.” “Customers are asked to make online payments only,” he added.Sunny Kumar Doliya, owner of Unisex Salon, situated in the Model Town market, said only one customer came to his salon on Monday.“We will attend customers with prior appointment only. To follow the social distancing rule, I will be calling only one staff member a day. We are wearing gloves, aprons while providing services to the clients and also checking their temperature during entry,” he said.Doliya said he would not be providing skin-related services in his salon till further guidelines by the government.“Jaan hai toh Jaahan hai! My first priority is the safety of my family and my staff members. Therefore, skin care services including facial, cleansing or bleach are suspended for now,” he added.However, some beauty parlours have started providing skin services and also slashed rates by at least half to attract customers.Sweety Dua, owner of Shine Beauty Clinic in Model Town Extension, said, “I am entertaining customers with prior appointment only. I have also reduced charges of all the services in view of the financial distress faced by people at this time.”“As all economic operations remained shut for around two months, not every woman can afford a facial costing Rs 1,000, so I have cut down rates of all services, including facial, cleansing, threading, bleaching to half,” said Dua. Dua said trust between service provider and client remains a prime factor at this time.“Since morning, I received three clients. They are my regular customers. They know that I have been taking all preventive measures, including sanitisation of the parlour, wearing gloves and masks, keeping disposable towels and attending one customer at a time. During the pandemic, customers will take services of only those salons in which they have trust,” she said.Amarjot Kaur, a resident of BRS Nagar, who visited Dua’s beauty parlour for threading, said she decided to go to her since they are relatives.Riya Sharma, a resident of Ghumar Mandi, said, “I took an appointment to visit the parlour for waxing and was happy to see that the owner has taken all preventive measures. I was asked to wash hands at the gate, was given a new mask to wear and I made the payment through Paytm.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/salons-beauty-parlours-reopen-with-precautions/story-7FV8k8zT2umSIeQMfXLO9O.html
18-05-2020||City||Youth Akali Dal workers seek power bill, school fees waiver||The members of the Youth Akali Dal and local residents staged a protest against the state government seeking waiver of electricity bill and school fees, at Dugri here on Monday.They rued that due to the curfew in the state for 55 days, they had suffered losses in business and expressed their helplessness in paying power bill and school fees of the last two months. Ramandeep Singh of Dungri said, “I have a cloth shop which had been closed for the past two months. I paid salaries to my employees and used savings to run my house. The school, in which, my two children are enrolled collects fees quarterly and I don’t have ₹9,000 to pay them.”Youth Akali Dal district president Gurdeep Singh Gosha said that since Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi had asked the Uttar Pradesh government to waive electricity bills, she should also ask Punjab government to forgo our power bills.Gosha said the people even do not have money to deposit school fees and the state government should ask schools to not charge fees from parents as they had no source of income during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/youth-akali-dal-workers-seek-power-bill-school-fees-waiver/story-4DPiO4s69uNCv1RPHLYSEO.html
18-05-2020||Delhi||Lawyers in Gurugram, Noida and Ghaziabad will be issued passes to travel to Delhi, HC told||The Haryana government Monday informed the Delhi high court that it has decided to allow advocates to travel to the national capital and have started issuing them e-passes for interstate transit during the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown to curtail the spread of Covid-19.A bench of justice Siddharth Mridul and justice Talwant Singh were also told by the Uttar Pradesh government that the lawyers who wished to commute to Delhi from Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad may contact the respective nodal officers who will issue them one-time passes.The submissions were made while hearing a plea by Bar Council of Delhi chairman advocate KC Mittal, who had filed a plea challenging the decision of these states to restrict the movement of advocates, who reside in the NCR areas, to visit offices and courts in the national capital.During the hearing, Mittal told the court that the pro forma uploaded for issuance of e-passes in districts of Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad do not have column for advocates and it is only meant for Interdistrict movement within the state of Uttar Pradesh.He said for interstate e-passes, a separate pro forma has to be provided, including advocates in the category of those who could avail of e-passes. He added that e-passes should be issued within half an hour of the application and should be valid for at least one week, to avoid lawyers a daily inconvenience.The court, taking note of these undertakings, posted the matter to May 20.Meanwhile, the Delhi high court, also agreed to the suggestions made by the Delhi high court bar association (DHCBA) to reopen the advocates’ chambers so that lawyers can get retrieve their files and books, but with certain conditions and safeguards, including the number of persons who can access the rooms and the timings thereof.The high court’s committee, set up for the preparation of a graded action plan in opening up courts in a staggered manner, recommended that the chambers can be opened in two phases -- between 10am and noon and 2pm and 4pm.“The committee accedes to the proposal of Mr Mohit Mathur (DHCBA president) for providing access to lawyers to their respective chambers situated in three lawyers’ chambers block of this court to primarily enable them to take away their files, books, belongings etc.,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/lawyers-in-gurugram-noida-and-ghaziabad-will-be-issued-passes-to-travel-to-delhi-hc-told/story-kDStibQRNuWaTcs1oalOIK.html
18-05-2020||City||Ludhiana hospital starts telemedicine programme with America’s Cleveland Clinic||The Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) here has partnered with the Cleveland Clinic, USA, in telemedicine (the remote diagnosis and treatment of patients by means of telecommunications technology).As per a communiqué issued by the hospital, the telemedicine programme was inaugurated by chief minister of Punjab Capt Amarinder Singh through a video conference.The chief minister, according to the communiqué, lauded the contribution of the college and hospital in the northwestern region over the past 125 years. The CM stated that he was confident the people of Punjab would benefit by this initiative.Dr Jeyaraj D Pandian, principal and professor of neurology, who is in-charge of the programme, stated this partnership would provide citizens of Punjab an opportunity to explore complex health queries, novel treatment options for rare diseases and, most importantly, empower themselves to make informed decisions by seeking medical advice from two esteemed organisations, CMCH and Cleveland Clinic, without having to travel out of Punjab.Some of the areas of telemedicine services through this initiative will include cancer, cardiology, neurology, endocrinology, pulmonology and general medicine.The Cleveland Clinic will also share its expertise on Covid-19 and related patient issues in collaboration with CMCH physicians.“We eagerly look forward to this collaboration,” said Rob Stall, executive director, Cleveland Clinic International Operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-hospital-starts-telemedicine-programme-with-america-s-cleveland-clinic/story-FMcZF04Vuz2Tbm68e4LFMI.html
18-05-2020||City||Labour couple heading to Usmanabad killed in road accident in Indapur||PUNE: A husband-wife duo of migrant masons travelling on a two-wheeler was killed by a speeding car driven by a man taking his family to Karnataka, on Sunday. The deceased and the car occupants were travelling to hometowns due to the coronavirus lockdown. A two-and-a-half-year-old girl, the deceased’s granddaughter, who was riding with the couple survived the accident, according to the local police.The deceased were identified as Dayanan Pundalik Dupargode, 50, and Suvarna Dayanand Dupargode, 47, residents of Ambedkarnagar in Dhayari, Pune, and natives of Nilegaon, Tuljapur, Usmanabad. The arrested man was identified as Shantappa Shivsharanappa Mhetre, 47, a resident of Mattimode village in Gulbarga in Karnataka who works as a driver and had hired the car to take his family of five to Karnataka.The driver was arrested on Sunday night and released on bond by a local court on Monday morning.The deceased were travelling with the girl Vedika Manoj Dupargude to Usmanabad. They were all taken to sub-divisional hospital in Indapur.“They were travelling with two other motorcycles with two people each. They had stopped on the roadside to drink water when the speeding car rammed into them. The two were crushed and died on the spot. The child was thrown off the track of the car, on impact, and she escaped with minor injuries,” said hawaldar Appasaheb More of Indapur police station in Pune rural police jurisdiction who is investigating the case.The incident happened in Londhe Vasti area of Indapur at 11:30am as the couple were travelling with their granddaughter to Osmanabad from Pune due to the lockdown.“The child was their son’s daughter and had come to their house in Pune before lockdown. The two were going back to their native place,” said More.The car heading from Mumbai was also carrying the arrested man’s wife, two sons and a daughter. While the deceased were on an Suzuki Access-125 two-wheeler owned by a family member registered in Pune, the car was a white Hyundai Accent registered in Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/labour-couple-heading-to-usmanabad-killed-in-road-accident-in-indapur/story-0eghi8tGOz2Fqfk0FTrc6J.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||Centre turns down Chandigarh’s request to quarantine foreign returnees at home||The central government has declined UT’s request to allow people returning from abroad to quarantine themselves at home instead of hotels.The UT administration was of the view that home quarantining foreign returnees was possible in Chandigarh since residents here were mostly well educated and houses were large enough to allow self-isolation protocols. Several residents had also approached the administration to allow home quarantining of their family members, rather than forcing them to stay in hotels, citing a higher risk of infection there.But, UT adviser Manoj Parida said, the Centre was not ready to accept UT’s request, which had also come in from various states.“Quarantining in hotels is the only option now as per the existing policy. We will make changes in case Centre amends its policy in the future,” he said. Ward number 1 councillor Mahesh Inder Singh Sidhu said there needed to be a more liberal approach. “All foreign returnees, who have been clinically declared negative, should be allowed to go home in a week’s time rather than keeping them at hotels for 14 days,” he said.Sector-8 resident Jaspreet Singh, who is waiting for his daughter’s return, said Punjab had already allowed quarantining of foreign returnees at home after an undertaking from parents. “UT should follow suit, since parents here are already willing to abide by any undertaking or protocols,” he said.PRIORITY LODGING OF RETURNEES IN MOUNTVIEW DONE AWAY: UT TO HCThe UT administration on Monday informed the Punjab and Haryana high court that the decision to lodge the returnees on priority basis in Hotel Mountview had been done away with. It said the administration had shortlisted four private hotels, apart from the two government hotels - Mountview and Shivalikview, who were willing to accommodate air passengers for 14 days of quarantine. “In the new standard operating procedure, the choice for the quarantine accommodation is left to the returnees according to their paying capacity,” UT stated, while adding that accommodation in hotel Mountview was costlier compared to other hotels. It informed the court that returnees who cannot afford expensive hotel accommodation can also opt for Panchayat Bhawan or Panjab University hostels.UT made these submissions in response to a PIL filed by the Sector 10 Resident Welfare Association, who apprehended the spread of Covid-19 in the sector in case the respondents were permitted to lodge the returnees in Hotel Mountview only.Disposing of the matter, HC stated that since mandatory requirement of lodging the returnees coming from abroad on priority basis in Hotel Mountview had been done away with, the primary grievance of the petitioner stood redressed.So far, 13 passengers have reached Chandigarh. While six are lodged in Mountview, the other seven are accommodated in other places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/centre-turns-down-chandigarh-s-request-to-quarantine-foreign-returnees-at-home/story-YZ62EXVGl9qFA80iWV0OzI.html
18-05-2020||City||Himachalis returning from abroad to be quarantined in hotels||The Himachal Pradesh government on Monday notified the standard operating procedure for (SOP) quarantining Himachalis returning from foreign countries on special flights.Principal secretary to chief minister Sanjay Kundu said that since May 9, as many as 29 Himachal residents have returned to India by special flights or by sea.Nineteen returned by air between May 9 and May 16 and are currently quarantined at various institutional facilities in New Delhi.Apart from it, three people returned from the Maldives on INS Jalashava on May 10 and two on INS Magar on May 13 and are kept in a quarantine facility in Kerala.“Five people have returned from Dubai and have been placed under quarantine at Amritsar,” said Kundu.He added that the ministry of home affairs has decided that all the returnees will have to be institutionally quarantined for 14-days preferably at the headquarters of the district they belong to.Kundu said that the state government has identified Himachal Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (HPTDC)-run Hotel Holiday Home in Shimla, Hotel Pinewood at Barog in Solan, Hotel Dhauladhar and Hotel Bhagsu in Dharamshala and Hotel Tea Bud in Palampur to quarantine returnees.Managing Director of HPTDC will ensure that all these hotels maintain hygiene and cleanliness and the staff downloads the Arogya Setu App.“Additional chief secretary (health) shall depute sufficient doctors and paramedical staff to carry out regular health checkups of people under quarantine. And such persons will be allowed to leave the quarantine facility only after the clearance by the medical officer,” said Kundu.He said that the MEA will share the list of returnees with the state government’s resident commissioner in Delhi before their arrival. The staff of the resident commissioner will receive the returnees at the airport as per the SOP issued by MHA.They will be medically examined on arrival and will have to download the Arogya Setu App.“As per SOP of MHA, passengers found to be Covid-19 positive shall be taken to a medical facility of the state where the flight lands. Remaining passengers shall be taken to the institutional facility in Himachal by taxis arranged by HPTDC on payment bases,” he said.He said that deputy commissioners of the concerned districts shall issue an e-pass for the persons arriving from abroad and the taxi in which they shall be travelling.“If the returnees are found to be tested negative for coronavirus after 14 days, they will be allowed to go home where they will self-monitor their health for 14 more days,” said Kundu.He added that the state government shall only concur in the evacuation of those returnees who land at Delhi, Chandigarh or Amritsar airports.Kundu said that HPTDC shall issue its own SOP for its operation and management in respect of the designated institutional quarantine centers. “It may be ensured that all inmates of these centres observe social distancing, personal hygiene and wear masks at all times,” he said.“Any violations or unruly behavior by the guests shall be reported to the officer of the law,” he said adding that HPTDC will ensure that any public area within the premises like restaurants, gymnasium, bars, meeting halls are not used.The use of lift should be avoided and if the situation warrants its use not more than two people be allowed.He said that people entering the tourism unit converted into quarantine centre be screened medically and movement of guests outside their rooms shall be monitored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachalis-returning-from-abroad-to-be-quarantined-in-hotels/story-rJhdtdbQjPSQ2mUoWetSWP.html
18-05-2020||City||Special train brings home 694 stranded Himachal residents from Maharashtra||A Shramik special train ferrying 694 residents of Himachal, who were stranded in Maharashtra, arrived at Una from Mumbai on Monday.The train was running three hours behind schedule and arrived at 1:50am.Deputy commissioner Sandeep Kumar along with superintendent of police Kartikeyan Gokulchandran and other district officials were present at the station when the train arrived.Among the returnees, 242 were from Kangra, 169 from Hamirpur, 103 from Mandi, 40 from Shimla, 26 from Kullu, 10 from Kinnaur, 43 from Bilaspur, 38 from Una and eight each from Solan and Sirmaur.They were screened for flu-like symptoms on arrival and provided water and food. Later, they were sent to their respective home districts in Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) buses.The DC said the Radha Soami Satsang Beas had arranged 1,200 packets of food for the returnees. The food was prepared by 50 volunteers at Bhadsali branch of the Radha Soami Satsang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/special-train-brings-home-694-stranded-himachal-residents-from-maharashtra/story-nLnnZrcZKp5dduoywdIpiL.html
18-05-2020||City||2 trucks ferrying migrants illegally to UP, Bihar seized||The Ludhiana police on Sunday seized two trucks illegally ferrying labourers to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The truck drivers had allegedly charged Rs 3,500 from each labourer for taking them to their native places. According to the police, none of the labourers were wearing masks and social distancing norms were being flouted.While one case was registered at the Basti Jodhewal police station, the other was at Focal point station. A truck driver and a middleman were arrested. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Gurbachan Singh, who is investigating the case, said that he was on patrolling duty, when he noticed a truck ferrying labourers. When he signalled the truck to stop, the driver fled from the spot leaving the vehicle behind.Following this, the labourers started walking towards Jalandhar Bypass. The ASI managed to stop five labourers, who told him that the truck driver was ferrying them to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar in his truck. There were more 45 labourers in the truck apart from them.The middleman had charged Rs 3,500 from each labourer for taking them to their native palaces. Following the information provided by the labourers, police have arrested Rajiv Kumar of Dhandhari Kalan. A case under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused at Basti Jodhewal police station. The driver of the truck in thus case is yet to be arrested.He added that the government has made arrangements to send labourers to their native places in trains and buses, but fraudsters are fleecing labourers in the name of ferrying them to their homes.In the second case, the Focal Point police arrested truck driver Amar Singh of Prem Nagar of Lohara road. ASI Rajinderpal Singh, who is investigating the case, said that the truck was stopped for checking near Ganpati Chowk following a tip-off. It was covered with tarpaulin sheets at the time. Upon checking, police found 35 migrant labourers in the truck. The labourers told police that the truck driver was ferrying them to their native places in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.The labourers also told that the driver had charged Rs. 3,500 from each passenger.The ASI added that a case under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act has been registered against the driver at the Focal Point police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-trucks-ferrying-migrants-illegally-to-up-bihar-seized/story-gCdC3BY3DJoEbjVAqmlClJ.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University plans to reopen research labs||Panjab University is planning to reopen research labs on its campus, which have been closed since the nationwide lockdown was imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.The reopening was discussed in a meeting of department heads chaired by vice-chancellor Raj Kumar. The move comes after restrictions on movement were eased in the tricity. “It was decided during the meeting that labs will be reopened only after sanitising them. Also, only research scholars living in the tricity can work there after following all precautionary measures,” the chairperson of a department who attended the meeting said, pleading anonymity. The number of students will be restricted and chairpersons have been told to coordinate with faculty for opening labs in a planned manner to ensure social distancing is maintained.The research work in the varsity has been badly hit since the lockdown began and many projects have been left incomplete.Professor Ashwani Koul said, “Researchers are eager to start their work. But, it must be done after taking all precautions. Alot of research work is pending in the departments, and it is the best way to utilise the summer break.”RESUMPTION OF CLASSES, EXAMS AND ADMISSIONS DISCUSSEDResumption of examinations, admission process and classes were also discussed at the meeting. Heads of departments (HoDs) have been told to prepare an action plan for conducting examinations after the summer break is over. It was also discussed, that before the examinations commence, classes will be held for around 15 days to cover remaining syllabus and other practical work.On May 13, PU resumed functioning of its offices with 33% staff on rotation basis after getting permission from the Chandigarh administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-plans-to-reopen-research-labs/story-aMvG5HRjIctmRSKfOBS0BM.html
18-05-2020||City||10 more test positive in Himachal, tally climbs to 90||Ten more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Monday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 90.Among the fresh cases, five have been reported from Hamirpur, three from Bilaspur and one each from Kangra and Chamba districts.The five Hamirpur patients have a travel history to Mumbai and their samples were sent for testing on May 16.Hamirpur deputy commissioner Harikesh Meena said among the two patients from Nadaun, one is a 60-year-old man from Chowki Rajputan village. He returned from Mumbai on May 12 and was at an institutional facility in Government Primary School, Booni.The other patient, aged 47, belongs to Khungan village and returned from Mumbai on May 14 along with his wife and three kids. They were under quarantine at an institutional facility in Kashmir village.The third patient is a 54-year-old taxi driver from Gwardoo village. He had returned from Mumbai on May 10 and was under home quarantine. A 50-year-old woman from Redu Padhar village Tauni Devi area has also tested positive for the disease. She had returned from Mumbai on May 14 in a private vehicle.The fifth patient is a 20-year-old youth from the same village and is a close relative of the woman. They were also institutionally quarantined.The DC said the patients have been shifted to Radha Soami Charitable Hospital, Bhota, a dedicated Covid-care centre. Their primary and secondary contacts are being traced. The sixth case was reported from Jaunta village of Nurpur in Kangra district. The patient, a 24-year-old woman is the wife of a Covid-19 positive man, Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said.Three cases were reported from Bilaspur.Meanwhile, a woman from Chamba has also tested positive. Earlier, her husband who had returned from Baddi had tested positive. Later, her two-year-old daughter also got infected. The husband has recovered but is still under quarantine while the daughter is admitted at a Covid-care centre.The district administration had allowed the woman to accompany her daughter at the treatment facility.With the ten new cases, the total tally in the state has climbed to 90 and the active cases have gone upto 42.Himachal Pradesh has witnessed a spurt in coronavirus cases since May 4, with 50 people testing positive.Two people have died due to the contagion during the corresponding period.Kangra is the worst-hit district with 21 cases followed by Una with 18 cases and Hamirpur with 15 cases.Thirteen cases have been reported in Chamba district, nine in Solan, seven in Bilaspur, four in Bilaspur; two each in Sirmaur and Mandi and one in Shimla.Till date, 18,118 people have been tested for Covid-19 in the state. More than 22,000 are under active surveillance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-himachal-tally-climbs-to-85/story-FgypcT1cAkfYlxhquqJwgK.html
18-05-2020||City||Pune admin claims 80,000 migrant workers repatriated||HT CorrespondentPUNE The Pune District administration has facilitated the journey of at least 80,000 migrant workers returning to their home towns, via train or public transport buses. The administration has arranged for 18 more trains in the next two days to send people back to their respective states, said Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram, on Monday.According to estimates, there are at least 30,000 to 35,000 migrants are still stranded in Pune district, though some have changed their minds about leaving, after a relaxation in curbs allowed industries and construction sites to resume work.The administration has so far arranged for 35 trains, out of a total of 65 trains proposed for the district. “We have so far sent 80,000 migrants, but with industries started on a large scale and the district administration taking care of food and shelter, we would like workers to stay back here,” said Ram.According to the district collector, there are still some migrants awaiting the return journey. “They are mostly from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Migrants from Madhya Pradesh have mostly returned home and there’s not much of a crowd left here among those wanting to return,” said Ram.According to Ram, most industries in the rural parts of Pune district have resumed operations while many in Pimpri-Chinchwad have also restarted with 33 per cent staff.The collector said that after allowing sub-registrar offices to restart in rural parts, the administration will implement the same order in the city so people can register their properties.“We are restarting land registration offices in Pune city also, with not more than five staffers inside the office,” said Ram, adding that there may be consideration about allowing some sports activity without spectators after a detailed order from the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-admin-claims-80-000-migrant-workers-repatriated/story-fZKy0FULwinMLwj7J1jiqK.html
18-05-2020||Delhi||45% Covid-19 patients have recovered in Delhi so far: CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said that 45% Covid-19 patients have recovered after treatment in the national capital.“In Delhi, there are 10,054 cases till to date. This is large in number. However, a total of 4,485 persons have been cured/discharged, which is 45 per cent of the total cases,” said Kejriwal here during a digital press conference.“As many as 160 people have died due to Covid-19 till now. We are working to save lives. The number of deaths in Delhi due to Covid-19 is less as compared to other States,” he added.Chief Minister Kejriwal said that coronavirus will be staying here until there is a vaccine to cure it.“We have to learn to live with the coronavirus. We became prepared in the last around two months during the lockdown. We need to start our economy, now. We will be following the Centre’s guidelines on the lockdown,” he said.He also said that taxis and cabs would be allowed to operate with two passengers at a time in the national capital amid the Lockdown 4.0.Chief Minister Kejriwal said that hotels, gymnasium, swimming pool, entertainment parks and auditorium, and places of worship will remain closed.Moreover, social, political, sports, cultural and religious gathering will not be allowed.The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) on Sunday asked Ministries/Departments of the Government of India, State Governments and State Authorities to continue the lockdown measures up to May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/45-covid-19-patients-have-recovered-in-delhi-so-far-cm-arvind-kejriwal/story-OCTrq3Rf0LpJVs5G6kOwJO.html
18-05-2020||Delhi||Taxis, cabs will operate in Delhi with 2 passengers: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||Taxis and cabs will be allowed to operate with two passengers at a time in the national capital amid the Lockdown 4.0, said Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday. “Taxis and cabs will be allowed but only two passengers at a time in a car,” said Kejriwal in a press conference. He said that hotels, gymnasium, swimming pool, entertainment parks and auditorium, and places of worship will remain closed.Moreover, social, political, sports, cultural and religious gathering will not be allowed. The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) on Sunday asked Ministries/Departments of the Government of India, State Governments and State Authorities to continue the lockdown measures up to May 31.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday had announced that the nationwide coronavirus lockdown will be extended to a fourth phase with “totally different” rules, which will be announced before the current one expiring on May 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/taxis-cabs-will-operate-in-delhi-with-2-passengers-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal/story-L114lVtAvfK8mXICSdLMPM.html
18-05-2020||City||Stuck in Katra, Nepalese family wants to return home||A family from Nepal, which is stranded in Katra amid the lockdown, has urged the Jammu and Kashmir administration to deport them to their native land at the earliest.The family claimed that they had come here to pay obeisance at the Vaishno Devi Shrine in March but have been stranded since the nationwide lockdown was imposed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Though the Nepalese family, which includes five women, six men and children, are being given food and shelter by the district administration, they now want to return to their native country.“We have been here since more than 70 days. The administration is providing us with food and shelter but we have families back home where old parents and children are waiting for us. The administration should send us back,” a woman from the family told mediapersons here.Reasi district commissioner Indu Kanwal Chib said, “They are neither pilgrims nor tourists. They are destitute people, who generally come to such places. For the past 70 days we are looking after them. We are providing them with food and shelter.”Chib said the administration is now planning to send them back home.“Though sending them to Nepal is a bit difficult for us and not in our domain, we can send them to Delhi, Uttar Pradesh or till Bihar border where they will get a train. The administration is paying for their travel expenses but I want to know their willingness. Sometimes they show the urge to go back but then they backtrack,” Chib said, adding that in a day or two they will be sent to a place nearest to their native land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stuck-in-katra-nepalese-family-wants-to-return-home/story-pMfLfwrIzYtNW7ij2uj2UP.html
18-05-2020||City||Shimla admn allows buses ferrying people to quarantine centres till CTO on Mall Road||The Shimla district administration, in an order issued on Monday, allowed movement of buses ferrying people, who are returning from outside the state and are to be kept in mandatory institutional quarantine, up to Central Telegraph Office (CTO) at the Mall Road.The district administration has notified Hotel the Gran on the Mall Road as an institutional quarantine facility.The aforesaid hotel is located in the sealed area where no kind of vehicular movement except that of emergency vehicles is allowed. The hotel is accessible only through CTO road.The district administration took the decision to allow movement of the bus up to CTO in wake of the 18 Mumbai returnees who were being shifted to the institutional quarantine. They returned on a special train.In the future also, the movement of buses ferrying people to the quarantine facility will be allowed, said Shimla deputy commissioner Amit Kashyap.He said that the decision has been taken under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 to prevent the spread of Covid-19.The buses will immediately return after dropping the passengers at CTO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shimla-admn-allows-buses-ferrying-people-to-quarantine-centres-till-cto-on-mall-road/story-t4wZb4i8TbtBKvHlKSvxhK.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||Mumbai man who flew to US 24 years ago on visitor visa deported||Chandigarh: More than two decades ago after he arrived in the United States on a visitor visa, never to depart, the American dream of Susai Manickam Francis, 57, an Indian national from Mumbai, has come to an end. Francis is among the 161 illegal migrants aboard a high-risk deportation flight from the United States arriving at Amritsar on Tuesday evening, according to information shared by the United States Department of Homeland Security (DHS) with New Delhi.The story of this illegal migrant and many other deportees on board the US Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) chartered flight is a grim reminder for thousands from India who put their lives and resources at stake to illegally cross over into the US every year. ICE records showed that Francis was in custody at Buffalo federal detention facility in Batavia, New York, before boarding the flight to India.Arrived in US in 1996, raised familyFrancis entered the United States in New York in 1996, on a B-2 visitor visa, which allowed him to remain in the United States for a period not to exceed six months. However, he did not leave the US as required by the visa and resided on Long Island in New York for more than two decades.As per documents of the appellate division of Supreme Court of New York state, Francis has two children, one of whom is a citizen of the United States. On March 25, 2015, Francis was served with a notice to appear in an immigration court, and he became the subject of removal proceedings.Ironical piece of US historyBut before he was packed into an ICE detention facility in the state of New York, Francis had become an ironic part of the US jurisprudence.In 2017, he challenged his detention by a local sheriff’s department for civil immigration violations in the appellate division of the New York Supreme Court. Francis had been detained on the purported authority of a detainer request issued by ICE and an accompanying administrative (not judicial) warrant.Though the court sustained the writ filed by Francis in 2018, he could not get relief as he was no longer in the sheriff’s detention.“Determining only the narrow issue before us, we conclude that the sheriff’s policy of December 2, 2016, directing the retention of prisoners, who would otherwise be released, pursuant to ICE detainers and administrative warrants is unlawful, and that Francis’s detention by the sheriff on December 11, 2017, which commenced after the termination of Francis’s court proceeding that day, was thus unlawful,’’ the court ruled.“The second department of the NY Supreme Court ruled that New York law does not authorise state and local authorities to arrest persons whose sole alleged infraction is being in the United States without documentation, conduct that federal immigration law treats as a civil violation. In fact, New York’s criminal procedure law permitted police officers to arrest a person only in response to a judicially issued warrant or for a misdemeanor or felony or a crime or any other conduct punishable by imprisonment or a fine, the court said,” said a communication from New York attorney general Letitia James.The New York Civil Liberties Union (NYCLU) who had rendered legal assistance to Francis in the case termed the court judgment as a victory. His former NYCLU attorney Jordan Wells, when asked about his deportation, said that he hasn’t worked on his case in a long time. Wells has left the NYCLU and now works for American Civil Liberties Union in California.As for Francis, he will undergo a mandatory 14-day quarantine on his arrival on Tuesday and then probably head to Sion, a Mumbai neighbourhood where his near and dear ones live.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-man-who-flew-to-us-24-years-ago-on-visitor-visa-deported/story-R6WiYmxDQtLSh7z9nzA6GN.html
18-05-2020||City||Train from Delhi brings back students||The students’ special train from Delhi arrived at Kalyan railway station on Sunday night. Kalyan’s deputy RTO had made available buses and taxis for passengers to reach home. “The special train from Delhi was for Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) aspirants and students from Maharashtra. A total of 146 students from Thane, Kalyan and its neighbouring cities reached Kalyan on Sunday night,” said an official from Central Railway, Mumbai. The UPSC aspirants from Konkan division who reached Kalyan included 42 from Thane, 18 from Mumbai, nine each from Mumbai suburban and Raigad, and five each from Ratnagiri and Palghar, the Thane district administration said in a release on Monday.The train which was scheduled to reach Kalyan station around 5.45pm was delayed by five hours and reached at 10.33pm on Sunday. Buses and taxis were available for students outside Kalyan station. “The vehicles were arranged following the directions from the district administration for the convenience of the students. The State Transport buses were made available for free of cost. Private taxis were also arranged (chargeable),” said an official from Kalyan RTO.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/train-from-delhi-brings-back-students/story-lQez4E6H3SKHbJ76rA2QVJ.html
18-05-2020||City||Congress leader Sudhir Sharma urges Centre to rework ₹20 lakh crore package||All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary and senior Congress leader Sudhir Sharma on Monday flayed the Centre’s economic stimulus package of ₹20 lakh crore describing it as “insane”.“The government’s relief and fiscal stimulus plan was in the making since late March, still, the government came out with a flawed package,” he said adding that the government must rework on the package to revive the ailing economy.In a press statement issued here, Sharma said that before the country was hit by Covid-19, small businesses with weak revenues were already struggling with cash flows, while daily-wagers were impacted majorly.In fact, specific sectors like tourism, entertainment and aviation were bleeding in the last fiscal due to steps taken by the BJP government like demonetisation and flawed Goods and Services (GST), Tax, he said.Through, the ₹20 lakh crore package, Sharma said, the government intends to undertake reforms across eight sectors as part of the Prime Minister’s Aatmanirbhar Bharat Scheme—a post-pandemic plan that’s aimed at boosting the economy.“The source of funding the entire scheme is still a secret for everyone. Most part of the package is in liquidity and guarantees and unlike many other major economies in the world, there is not much direct cash support or demand push,” he said.The Congress leader said that the government announced a big package for MSMEs but did not do anything to protect the wages, salaries, and paycheques of about 11 crore people employed in this sector.These people need to know whether or not their wages will be paid,” he said adding that there was palpable tension and rising uncertainty among the working people of the country and their families.He said that the migrant workers walking hundreds of miles to their native places don’t really get the money.“The Centre has not given a clear signal of assistance to private firms which have already started large scale retrenchments and lay-offs, besides the pay cuts. Also, the package does not address the needs of small retailers. Stores that are shut still need to pay rentals and other bills are struggling to be viable businesses.The tendency of the consumer to go digital and use e-commerce channels has increased due to safety concerns in the wake of Covid-19 and this is beginning to cannibalise business from small retail, he said.“The kirana stores need liquidity as they were not allowed to sell non-essentials and in many areas which were under complete lockdown, these stores were not allowed to operate,” Sharma added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-leader-sudhir-sharma-urges-centre-to-rework-20-lakh-crore-package/story-pAZNgGAVmwTsT7Q4NdJUTO.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||MGNREGS leveraged to alleviate rural distress during Covid-19 lockdown: Punjab CM||In a bid to alleviate rural distress during the Covid-lockdown labour-intensive work was carried out in Punjab villages by leveraging the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh said on MondayTwo persons were appointed in each village as Van Mitras (friends of forests) to nurture the 550 saplings planted by the forest department to commemorate the 550th anniversary of Guru Nanak dev.A village pond cleaning and rejuvenation drive was also launched on May 12 by the rural development and panchayats department covering 15,000 water bodies in 13,000 villages to give work to the poor and ensure cleanliness in rural areas during the Covid-19 outbreak.The initiatives ensured direct transfer of wages to the poor, many of them women, said Capt Amarinder Singh.An official spokesperson said the department was targeting the dewatering and desilting (if required) of all the ponds. A unique model would be initiated to provide a permanent solution to the problem of overflowing in these ponds.Technology-driven steps taken by the state last year ensured rural payment processes were carried out seamlessly online without any obstruction during the lockdown. This included the procedure of identification, estimation, technical and administrative approval of works – all done online in the state, by means of a web based software called SECURE.During FY 2019-21 an amount of Rs767 core was spent under MGNREGS, and a record total of 2.35 crore mandays generated during the year, of which 1.38 crore were for women and 1.57 lakh for the elderly (over 60 years).About 7.53 lakh households in this period were provided employment and a total of 1.27 lakh new job cards were made, covering needy families.The new target for 2020-21 was 2.50 crore mandays.The spokesperson also said in FY 2019-20, the total of 89,333 works of different categories had been taken up under the scheme. Panchayats had been provided 905 playfields, 8,006 rural roads, 78 anganwadi centers, and work was continuing in 355 anganwadis.The bulk of the 89,333 works undertaken during the year related to rural connectivity (22,540), while works on individual lands (Category IV) were 19,346, followed by drought proofing (16,785) and land development (10,984). There were 77,06 works on renovation of traditional water bodies, 5,178 micro irrigation works, 2,611 of rural infrastructure, 1,428 in water conservation and water harvesting, 1,303 flood control and protection, 984 rural sanitation, 142 Bharat nirman Rajeev Gandhi sewa kendra, 90 rural drinking water, 81 playgrounds, 79 fisheries and 76 other works.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mgnregs-leveraged-to-alleviate-rural-distress-during-covid-19-lockdown-punjab-cm/story-YQ6k506B0ivu0xgcTgoPwN.html
18-05-2020||City||Himachal CM launches ‘One Nation One Ration Card’ scheme for migrant labourers||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Monday launched the ‘One Nation One Ration Card’ scheme, under the Interstate Portability Scheme of the department of food, civil supplies and consumer affairs, for migrant labourers. The CM said the scheme will help consumers take ration from any fair price shop in the country through National Portability Scheme of ration card. He said the scheme will benefit about 67 crore people of the country and lakhs of people of Himachal.“The Centre has decided to provide free food grain for two months to about eight crore migrant labourers in the country. Those labourers who do not have ration card will also be provided free 5kg wheat or rice per person and 1kg pulse per month,” he said.The CM said 2864.46 tonnes food grains have been allocated to Himachal Pradesh under this scheme which will go a long way in facilitating the state government to provide this ration to targeted groups at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-cm-launches-one-nation-one-ration-card-scheme-for-migrant-labourers/story-R4rjNrb9AGchne2KHEPfGM.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal government extends lockdown till May 31||The Himachal Pradesh government has extended the lockdown till May 31 and has directed authorities concerned to implement the guidelines of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) and National Executive Committee, except those related to public transport and government offices.The order extending the lockdown was issued by chief secretary Anil Khachi, who is also the chairperson of the state executive committee (SEC) late on Sunday.RISK PROFILING OF DISTRICTSNew guidelines will be applicable based on risk profiling of the districts into the red (hotspots), orange and green zones and orders with respect to operations of government offices will be issued by department of personnel, the notification read.As per the MHA’s orders, all domestic and international air travel, except for domestic medical services, domestic air ambulance and for security purposes, will remain prohibited.Trains and educational institutions, including schools, colleges, training and coaching institutes, will also remain closed.Hotels, restaurants and hospitality services, except those meant for housing, health, police, government officers, healthcare workers, stranded persons and for quarantine facilities and canteens at bus depots railway stations and airports, shall remain closed.HOME DELIVERY ALLOWEDRestaurants shall be permitted to operate kitchens for home delivery. All social, sport, religious political gatherings shall remain prohibited. All places of worship shall also remain closed.Inter-state public transport, including plying of buses is allowed by MHA, except in containment zones, but state is yet to take a decision on the issue.DISTRICT MAGISTRATES TO DECIDE CURFEW HOURSThe district magistrates have been authorised to decide curfew hours. Persons above the age of 65 years, those with co-morbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 are to stay at home.No activities shall take placed in containment zones, except for provision of essential services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-government-extends-lockdown-till-may-31/story-pcFmN4b7Xh5rCC1rEilHLI.html
18-05-2020||City||Trade unions to hold nationwide protest against labour law changes on May 22||Centre of Indian Trade Union (CITU) along with other national trade unions and federations have decided to hold a nationwide protest on May 22 against the ‘anti-labour policies’ of the central and state government.They have also decided that they will take this matter to the International Labour Organisation (ILO). A one-day hunger strike will be observed at Rajghat, New Delhi. Similarly, demonstrations will also be organised in the state, district and block headquarters.Himachal Pradesh’s convenor of the Joint Forum of Trade Union Kashmir Thakur said that the government and capitalists are using lockdown to increase exploitation of workers by making changes in labour laws.He said that like other states, working hours in Himachal have also been increased from eight hours to 12 hours under the Amending Factories Act, 1948 which will result in exploitation and retrenchment of workers and labourers. Changes in Industrial Dispute Act 1947 will ease the process of retrenchment of workers and they will also be deprived of retrenchment compensation.Joint Forum of Trade Unions have warned the central and state government to reverse anti-labour policies or they will intensify the labour movement.Joint Forum of Trade Unions has also written a letter to chief minister Jai Ram Thakur regarding this matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/trade-unions-to-hold-nationwide-protest-against-labour-law-changes-on-may-22/story-LBhbzYdF4lPTIHH8xEKZ4I.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala, policemen booked under Arms Act, arrest imminent||Two weeks after Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala was booked by Sangrur and Barnala police after a video showing him firing an official assault rifle and a pistol/revolver was widely shared on social media, the police on Monday added provisions of the Arms Act in the first information reports (FIR).“The case has been handed over to the SP, Punjab Bureau of Investigation, Gurmeet Singh, but before further probe, Sections 25, 29 and 30 of the Arms Act have been added in the FIRs,” said Sangrur senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sandeep Garg.Earlier, the cases were registered under Section 188 of the IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act at Dhanauala police station of Barnala and Dhuri Sadar police station of Sangrur.“Under the Arms Act, it is a non-bailable offence and the accused will be arrested soon,” the SSP said.Barnala SSP Sandeep Goel said that the police had also added Section 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.IN CROSSHAIRS OF CONTROVERSY On May 4, Moosewala triggered a new controversy when a video was shared on social media in which he was allegedly seen firing from an official assault rifle at a shooting range at Badbar village of Barnala district. Some Punjab police personnel could be seen assisting the singer as he fired at the target from the official weapon.Six policemen were placed under suspension by the Sangrur police chief. Four people and five policemen were booked for violating curfew. On May 5, in another video, of the singer surfaced where he was firing from a private pistol/revolver at Ladda Kothi shooting range of Sangrur. The police booked Moosewala and six cops at Sadar Dhuri police station.After the incidents, eight police personnel, including deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Daljit Singh Virk, Julkan police station station house officer (SHO) Gurpreet Singh Bhinder and three assistant sub-inspectors, were suspended.Inspector general of police (Patiala range) Jatinder Singh Aulakh had directed the police of both districts to depute SP-level officers to probe the case as a deputy superintendent of police (DSP-Home, Sangrur), Daljit Singh Virk, was also suspended in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjabi-singer-sidhu-moosewala-policemen-booked-under-arms-act-arrest-imminent/story-v965Vokh1rfHcjlu0U7TLL.html
18-05-2020||Pune||Monday Musings: Facing lockdown 4.0, individually and collectively||Pune, along with the rest of the country will embark on the fourth phase of the Covid-19 lockdown on May 18, bringing far greater responsibility on us, individually and collectively. As compared to the first two phases of the lockdown, the third phase, lockdown 3.0, brought far greater relaxation on the restrictions in the non-containment zones. There was greater freedom of movement from home to offices and for making purchases, liquor sales were allowed in many parts of the country and all kinds of shops including hardware, stationery and general stories lifted their shutters. Last week, industrial estates opened up in Pimpri-Chinchwad, although, with many restrictions such as a limit of 33% workforce. The use of masks, sanitisers and handwash, ban on commuting to the factories by two-wheelers, frequent sanitising of the washrooms, safe distancing between workstations and staggered lunch breaks for workers are part of the Covid-19 SOPs (standard operating procedures) for factories. As has been very clearly explained in various interviews by Dr David Nabrro, the World Bank’s Special Envoys on Covid-19, what the lockdowns have done is to arrest the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus. One of the primary objectives of the lockdown was to contain the virus and prevent its spread. Economic activity, transportation of goods and the movement of people by public transport was brought to a complete halt during the lockdown. The other objective of the lockdown was to prepare the “defence mechanism” of every city and every country to deal with the virus once the lockdown is gradually relaxed and lifted to facilitate the revival of the economy. The creation of Covid care isolation and quarantine centres with hundreds of beds at Balewadi, Mhalunge and other places, along with dedicated hospitals with Intensive Care Units (ICUs) and ventilators is part of the defence mechanism that is being readied by a red zone district like Pune. As of May 15, Pune has had 174 deaths and more than 3,000 Covid-19 positive cases and the numbers are expected to rise further towards the month-end. What this means is that even if economic activity is revived and we start returning to our offices partially and gradually a set of precautions will have to be taken by us, individually and collectively. By now we are familiar with the importance of using face masks, social distancing, sanitisers, frequent handwash and not touching our face. Avoiding crowded places would be important for us, just as our offices will need to enforce the SOPs that would be specified by the government. Even if there are lesser restrictions during lockdown 4.0, we, as individuals, families, organisations and society as a whole will need to remain alert and take all the precautions necessary till this crisis is brought to rest. abhay.vaidya@hindustantimes.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/monday-musings-facing-lockdown-4-0-individually-and-collectively/story-E8P8OZZZka53LQEBTXAYkJ.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||Privatisation of power distribution in UTs to hit consumers hard: AIPEF||The All India Power Engineers’ Federation (AIPEF) has criticised the Union government’s decision to privatise electricity distribution in the eight union territories (UTs), including Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Chandigarh and Puducherry, amid the Covid-19 crisis.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said on May 16 that power distribution business in the UTs would be privatised as a step towards enhancing private investment in power distribution companies (discoms).VK Gupta, spokesperson, AIPEF, said the government considered the lockdown as an opportunity to privatise the power departments of the UTs by bypassing public opinion and not giving any time to stakeholders to debate the matter.The power departments of the UTs had been forced to appoint consultants and complete the process during the lockdown period, he added.Chandigarh unit making profitsCalling the move unnecessary as the Chandigarh electricity department was a profit-making utility with very low transmission and commercial losses, Gupta said the Central government was grossly misleading the public by saying that electricity would be cheaper after privatisation.Private discoms were only allowed to take a minimum of 16% profit, which would push the power tariff to almost Rs 8 per unit for consumers, he said.The Centre was also looking to abolish the subsidy and cross-subsidy in electricity supply, which would make the commodity more expensive for general consumer categories and cheaper for industrial consumers.The draft amendments to the Electricity Act, 2003, were made public in April with a proposal for private participation in electricity distribution.States, others had no say in the matterIt was rushed through, Gupta said, so that no stakeholders, especially the states, would be able to oppose it in the middle of the Covid-19 crisis.Calling the draft Electricity (Amendm||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/privatisation-of-power-distribution-in-uts-to-hit-consumers-hard-aipef/story-axKMRkyQaUFwc17t5ONLgO.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||Two Covid-19 deaths in Kapurthala, Amritsar||Two Covid-19 patients succumbed to the infection in Kapurthala and Amritsar on Monday.A 50-year-old man from Bagria village succumbed to the disease in a civil hospital in Kapurthala on Monday.Civil surgeon Jasmit Kaur Bawa said the victim had been undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Jalandhar and had been shifted to civil hospital with influenza-like symptoms on May 16.Bawa said the patient’s sample was taken on Sunday and his diagnosis was confirmed on Monday but he passed away a few hours later. Kapurthala has reported 33 cases, including three deaths. As many as 25 people have recovered from the virus. PATHANKOT PATIENT HAD TESTED NEGATIVE TWICE A 42-year-old Covid-19 patient from Pathankot breathed his last at Gurunanak Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Amritsar. The patient, who had been suffering from tuberculosis and some other complications, had tested negative for the disease two consecutive times but later passed away after his health deteriorated, said Dr Shiv Charan, the head of the medicine department at the hospital.The man was the last Covid-19 patient in the district as of the 29 positive cases in Pathankot, 27 have recovered while one woman who was the first to be infected had died on April 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-covid-19-deaths-in-kapurthala-amritsar/story-c6m4l29ktmxvaiV1Hu1n8J.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Police felicitate couple for forgoing a lavish wedding||Appreciating a newly-wed couple for forgoing a lavish wedding in favour of a quieter one, two Punjab Police officers garlanded the couple and offered them a ceremonial token at a checkpoint near Ramneek Chowk here on Sunday.Sub-inspector Harinder Singh and assistant sub-inspector Gurmeet Singh stopped the couple who were returning from the ceremony on a two-wheeler.“We felicitated the couple and gave them Rs 500 each as a belessing,” said the SI.The gesture was hailed by the locals on social media after a video of the incident was circulated on social media.A user, Maninder Kumar wrote on Facebook, “This is perhaps the first time in history that cops have given money to people at a naka instead of charging money or issuing challan for a traffic violation.”Another user, Amanpreet Kaur, said, “Thank God, the cops did not issue a challan to the groom for riding a two-wheeler without a helmet. But this is a heart-warming gesture from the Punjab Police.”The nuptials of Sangatdeep Singh of Bhatnura Lubana village, Jalandhar and Rubi Devi of Boolpur village, Sultanpur Lodhi, were fixed before the coronavirus pandemic. Their families were planning to postpone the function. However, the couple decided to go for a simple marriage, said a family member.A simple wedding ceremony was organised with relatives watching the ceremonies over video call.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-police-felicitate-couple-for-forgoing-a-lavish-wedding/story-gu1R8SJnHuKGSYE1N5G4yM.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||Public transport, cabs, salons open in Punjab||The Punjab government on Monday allowed movement of public transport vehicles, cabs and auto-rickshaws with limited passengers, besides allowing salons to open. Four-wheelers and cab aggregators will be limited to one driver and two passengers, a government notification said. Barber shops and haircut salons have been allowed in the state with condition of no overcrowding. For rickshaws and auto-rickshaws with one driver or puller, two passengers will be allowed. Even OPDs in government and private hospitals have been allowed to open.While shops in rural and urban areas have been allowed to open, restaurants have only been allowed to operate for home delivery and take-aways in a staggered manner. Amid a decline in the daily count of new cases, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday announced replacement of the strict curfew with a lockdown till May 31 with limited public transport resumption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/public-transport-cabs-salons-open-in-punjab/story-wkSYiSMP9LvM7pLwGS4tyJ.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||Manali-Leh highway reopens after five months||The Manali-Leh highway, which had been closed for five months due to heavy snowfall, was reopened to motorists on Monday.Officials said the highway was opened after snow-clearing operations were competed amid the coronavirus pandemic. The route is strategic for the movement of the armed forces to areas in Ladakh. “Traffic between Manali and Leh was resumed. This time the route was reopened earlier than usual,” a Border Roads Organisation (BRO) official said. “Snow had accumulated up to 30-35 feet in some stretches close to the Baralacha Pass, which was challenging for our men” the official said.Work to repair the 475-km stretch, which links the popular Himachal tourist city with Leh in Jammu and Kashmir, is now complete. The Manali-Leh highway winds its way through the Rohtang Pass (13,050 feet), Baralacha Pass (16,020 feet), Lachlungla Pass (16,620 feet) and Tanglangla (17,480 feet). The BRO maintains the strategic highways in the country. BRO’s ‘Project Deepak’ clears snow on the 222-km Sarchu-Manali highway while ‘Project Himank’ takes care of the 253-km Leh-Sarchu highway. The idyllic settings of the Himalayas draw a large number of backpackers, especially foreigners, for adventure activities like mountain biking, rock climbing and jungle trekking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/manali-leh-highway-reopens-after-five-months/story-exzbsrMZRt39LvKXRxAcqI.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||Two low-intensity quakes jolt Himachal’s Chamba region, no casualty||Two low intensity earthquakes rattled Chamba district of Himachal Pradesh early on Monday.The first quake, measuring 3 on the Richter scale, occurred at 5.54am. Its epicentre was at a depth of 5km in Chamba district and located 64km north-northeast of Dharamshala town.Another quake struck at 7.53am at the same depth of the earlier jolt. The epicentre this time was again in Chamba district but located 31 km west-northwest of Dharamshala. The tremor was also felt in adjoining Kangra district. No loss of life or damage to property was reported in the district, Chamba deputy commissioner Vivek Bhatia said.Chamba is on the border of Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir.Himachal Pradesh, particularly the Chamba region, falls in the high-risk seismic zone. A major earthquake measuring 7.8 on the Richter scale had hit the region in 1904, killing more than 20,000 people. More than 200 earthquakes of a magnitude of 4 and above have hit this region in a century.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-low-intensity-quakes-jolt-himachal-s-chamba-region-no-casualty/story-XHHYaJr71xoZr0eAGUm6dJ.html
18-05-2020||Music||Rocknaama’s Shaheen Salmani holds online gig to help raise funds for daily wage workers and migrant labourers||Lead vocalist Shaheen Salmani of the Delhi-based Sufi rock band Rocknaama has been actively talking about lockdown woes and raising awareness around issues pertaining to the marginalized amid the coronavirus pandemic. She recently held an online gig with Delhi Youth Welfare Association, a not-for-profit organisation, to raise funds and awareness about the daily wage workers and migrant labourers. “You see so many videos of migrant workers walking for hundreds of kilometres without food or water. There is no conveyance; even if there are provisions, they are being duped and charged more by people who are taking advantage of their condition,” she says. Drawing attention to the plight of this workforce, she adds, “The policies are framed but are not showing results on the ground. Jinke paas khaane ke paise nahi hain voh aapko fare kahaan se denge. They have nothing to eat aur daal-roti-chawal koi exotic demand nahi hai.”  Her video garnered over 10k views and helped raise ₹35,000 so far . The intention and hard work notwithstanding, artistes are bound to get hate mail. “There will always be trolls and hate-mongers, but if I am able to help even ten people, my work is done. Every voice counts,” she says while encouraging people to do their bit.Read: Coronavirus hits Indie music scene, artistes take gigs onlineWith industries adapting to the ‘new normal’, indie musicians like her are also finding ways to cope with the changing times. “I shot a video in my backyard and recorded the song at home. Fans would understand even if the production quality is not up to the mark. Content would matter over technology,” she opines.Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htshowbiz for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/music/rocknaama-s-shaheen-salmani-holds-online-gig-to-help-raise-funds-for-daily-wage-workers-and-migrant-labourers/story-wMeMdSyEznyM8n9oeapCZJ.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers take to direct-seeded rice method, Punjab stares at weedicide shortage||With farmers turning to the direct seeded rice (DSR) cultivation due to acute labour shortage in the state, Punjab must stock up on pre-emergence weedicides such as Pendimethalin.Authorities expect the area under DSR will increase six times, approximately up to 3-3.5 lakh hectares, this year. In 2019, farmers had cultivated only 50,000 hectares through the DSR method. Confirming the imminent shortage, a Chandigarh-based senior official in the agriculture department, on condition of anonymity, said, the state has around 4 lakh litres of Pendimethalin in stock, which is sufficient for only 1.5 lakh hectares.Experts in the agriculture department agree that as there is high growth of weeds in the DSR method of cultivation, using Pendimethalin within 24-hours of seeding was a must. ‘INGREDIENTS NEED TO BE IMPORTED’ A production head at a weedicide manufacturing company said some of the ingredients used in Pendimethalin are imported and thus production of the chemical was suffering due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “Moreover, no one had anticipated that the demand for Pendimethalin would increase to this extent in the initial months of the year,” he added. A Patiala-based seller, Balwinder Kapoor, who possesses a stock of the chemical, says, “ Retailers are also not placing bulk orders as the product may not sell if the farmers find the method too difficult. Companies, too, are wary of producing the chemical in bulk. The uncertainty is hampering production and supply.”“Nowadays, companies are demanding advance payments. Earlier, they would allow a 90-day credit period. Retailers are short of cash and with uncertainty looming they are refraining from placing orders,” Kapoor said.‘AREA UNDER DSR MAY SUPERSEDE AUTHORITIES’ EXPECTATION’ Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Rajewal state general secretary Onkar Singh Agaul says, “With labour unavailable, farmers have taken to the DSR method with enthusiasm. Farmers and local agro-implement industries are modifying wheat seeders to provide a quick and cheaper alternative. The area cultivated using the DSR method maybe much higher than authorities expect”. “The government must ensure adequate supply of the weedicide and avoid inflation and duplicity during the peak demand,” he said.DON’T BLINDLY CHOOSE DSR: OFFICIALS TO FARMERS Officials of the agriculture department, however, say farmers must not blindly choose the DSR method. “Farmers must seek expert guidance before using the DSR method as the technique requires a different set of skills, including choosing suitable land, wise use of weedicide, its sowing time and watering pattern,” cautions an agriculture department official. “Despite advertisements and warnings about the dos and don’ts, farmers are over-enthusiastic about DSR without comprehending the benefits and technical issues” says Patiala chief agriculture officer SS Walia.Director state agriculture department Sutantar Singh says the department is in touch with weedicide manufacturing companies and farmers will not face shortage of Pendimethalin. “Hoarding any pesticide or weedicide, price inflation and duplicity will dealt with strictly,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-take-to-direct-seeded-rice-method-amid-labour-shortage-punjab-stares-at-weedicide-shortage/story-i9qskxkFwRYxeLT52nq6ZK.html
18-05-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 death toll in Delhi rises to 160; cases cross 10,000-mark||The coronavirus death toll in Delhi mounted to 160, while the total number of Covid-19 cases in the national capital crossed the 10,000-mark on Monday, authorities said.Click here for full coronavirus coverageAs many as 299 fresh cases were recorded while the total number of active cases stood at 5,409. In a bulletin issued on Monday, the Delhi health department said, the death toll from coronavirus infection has risen to 160, and the total number of cases has climbed to 10,054.It, however, added that the cumulative death figures refer to fatalities where primary cause of death was found to be Covid-19, as per the report of the Death Audit Committee on the basis of case sheets received from various hospitals.On Sunday, the total number of cases stood at 9,755, including 148 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-death-toll-in-delhi-rises-to-160-cases-cross-10-000-mark/story-ZGuM2DcSgDa3jxjuQA1C7O.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||Meet the commoners silently helping the needy in locked-down Kashmir||Lockdown in Kashmir since mid-March has put added strain on those who were already reeling under economic stress due to months of restrictions since August 2019, when the special status of Jammu and Kashmir was revoked.To offer them relief amid the Covid-19 crisis, many administrative agencies and social organisations have come forward to feed the poor and provide safety kits to health workers. But there are also a significant number of common people who, without any institutional support, have been silently helping those in need. Here are five such philanthropists:Ovais Maknoo, 29, Businessman, BaramullaAs soon as Kashmir’s first Covid-19 cases were reported, Maknoo and his two friends decided to contribute in whatever way they could. He noticed that not only common people but even doctors were desperately looking for face masks. “The first thing we did was to hire a few tailors to sew cloth masks. Within days we managed to produce 2,000 masks,” said Maknoo, who has a distribution business of provisional food items.Soon they realised that the problem was more severe than scarcity of masks, people were getting short of food and essentials too as the lockdown kept extending. More like-minded people joined them and they decided to distribute food kits comprising rice, flour, spices, dals and soaps to the needy. “It was very challenging. People here were already in deep stress since August 2019 and the lockdown meant that thousands of daily wagers, cart pullers, labourers, drivers and elderly were in desperate need,” he said.“To cater to their monthly requirement, we distributed 500 food kits in the urban areas of Baramulla and then in the second phase, to some 850 families in the district’s rural parts,” he said.Sharmeen Mushtaq Nizami, 43, Doctor, SrinagarNizami with his three colleagues has been running a trust to help critical care patients buy medicines and other treatments. A medical officer at a government hospital, Nizami says she experienced pain very closely when her husband died of pancreatic cancer. “We are in this field and see how patients suffer. One feels their pain and witnesses them get economically drained due to diseases like cancer. When I help, it gives me joy,” she said.They provide financial assistance and arrange medicines for patients suffering from life-consuming diseases like cancer, and those needing dialysis and post-transplant patients. “We sponsor some patients monthly, but during the past two months, we saw things becoming more difficult. Patients going though kidney dialysis, hypertension, cancer, and diabetes and post-transplant approached us during these days. We help them get medicines at their doorsteps,” she said.Feroz Ahmad Kuchay, 41, government employee, SrinagarKuchay witnessed poverty at a young age after his father’s death. So, when he started earning, he made it a point to help those in need. For the past four years, he along with a group of like-minded people has been providing monthly food kits to dozens of families in the Old City area of Srinagar.“When Covid-19 cases started here, I thought more needed to be done as many people who once used to be my donors were in need of help during the lockdown,” he said adding, “My faith wants me to help those in need and it gives me solace.”He prepared food kits apart from those he used to deliver monthly to the needy. “For the past two months, we have helped some 70 families by providing them flour, spices, cooking oil, ghee etc,” he said. “Some come seeking cash assistance to buy their medicines and we help them,” he said.Mushtaq Ahmad Rigoo, 29, farmer of PulwamaWhen the lockdown was imposed, Rigoo, a resident of Khrew in Pulwama, saw how the only ambulance at the public health centre near his home was insufficient to cater to critical patients needing medical attention. He and his brother then decided to utilise their two vehicles to help patients reach hospitals.“We shared our number in WhatsApp groups and pasted posters for ill-patients looking to reach hospitals. Since then, I have been ferrying people without any charge and even delivering them medicines at their doorsteps,” he said.“We helped around 150 patients reach hospitals in Srinagar, eight of whom were due for childbirth. Once the local SHO asked me to bring back a youth from Jammu whose detention orders were revoked. I took his father along and travelled 600km to and fro,” he said.“There is no reward better than the peace of mind one gets upon doing a good deed,” he said.Zubair Ahmad Dar, 30, government employee, BaramullaDar was shocked when he saw a social media post by a doctor in March saying that shortage of protective gear was putting their and patients’ lives in danger. “I knew our medical system was in a shambles, but I thought at least our doctors should be able to treat without fear,” he said.He and a few others met a health official to know about what could be done to help. “They needed PPE kits, so we asked them to provide us some samples of the same. We hired tailors and started making PPE kits,” Dar said.“We used to visit Srinagar during the night amid the lockdown to arrange material for the kits. Within a few weeks, we managed to produce 1,000 kits with 300 of them being waterproof,” he said.“Then demands started pouring in for masks and face shields from hospitals, police and even journalists. We managed to produce some 10,000 non-woven face masks. We made the face shields using stationery items like plastic transparent file covers etc,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/meet-the-commoners-silently-helping-the-needy-in-locked-down-kashmir/story-0ApEDgQXPXEvP9NmRHHdZL.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports six new coronavirus cases, taking UT count to 197||After a gap of four days, Chandigarh reported six new cases of Covid-19 on Monday, taking the total count of infections in the Union Territory to 197.The new cases comprise three females, aged 10, 29 and 60, and three males, aged 12, 48 and 60, all from the hotspot Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26. Three patients are from one household, while two are from another family. All are contacts of previous cases, officials said.Out of 569 tested so far, as many as 128 residents of Bapu Dham, a low-income group colony, have tested positive for coronavirus, accounting for 65% of the total cases in the city and 80% of active cases.The first case from the congested locality was reported on April 24 when a resident who works as an operation theatre attendant at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, tested positive following which his family and community contacts were also found infected. The health department has cited non-adherence to social distancing norms as the cause of the outbreak in the colony.54 recovered so far, active case count stands at 140Meanwhile, three colony residents were discharged from the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research on Monday after two consecutive negative tests within 24 hours.This has taken the total number of recovered patients to 54 and active cases to 140. Those discharged are two men, aged 38 and 40, and a woman aged 19.“I feel proud to share that the PGIMER’s resolute front-line corona warriors are diligently working round the clock to cure all the patients and send them off fully recovered,” said PGIMER director Jagat Ram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-reports-five-new-coronavirus-cases-taking-ut-count-to-196/story-PrJ1b20cwlsgc9F8ULJMqM.html
18-05-2020||Jaipur||Two more Covid-19 deaths, 140 fresh cases in Rajasthan||Rajasthan on Monday recorded two more deaths due to coronavirus and 140 new cases of the virus, officials said.The number of cases in the state stands at 5,342 and deaths at 133.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe deaths were reported in Kota and Nagaur, additional chief secretary (health), Rohit Kumar Singh, said.  Of the 140 fresh cases, Dungarpur recorded 64 cases followed by 22 in Bhilwara, 21 in Jaipur, 15 in Udaipur, four each in Banswara and Bikaner, three in Dausa, two each in Kota, Nagaur and Rajsamand and one case in Sikar.  A total of 3068 patients have recovered and 2,666 have been discharged. There are 2,131 active cases in the state, the officials said.Entire state is under lockdown since March 22 and massive screening and search is underway to trace the contagion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/two-more-covid-19-deaths-140-fresh-cases-in-rajasthan/story-1CtYMYqakIZUWM1GEnERbO.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||High-risk deportation flight with 132 Haryana, Punjab immigrants to land on May 19||A special high-risk charter (SHRC) mission conducted by the United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) will repatriate 161 illegal Indian migrants, including 132 from Haryana and Punjab, on May 19. The chartered flight run by the ICE air operations, the air transportation arm of the US agency entrusted with the task to remove illegal migrants from American soil, will land on Tuesday evening at Amritsar’s Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International airport with 76 illegal immigrants from Haryana and 56 from Punjab on board.As per a US Department of Homeland Security (DHS) communication to New Delhi, these immigrants were in the custody of ICE at detention centres in Texas, Arizona, California, New York and Washington. Most of the detainees from Haryana and Punjab besides Goa, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Kerala and Tamil Nadu were kept in detention at Prairieland Detention Center in Texas.MANDATORY QUARANTINE PROTOCOLThe deportees, as per the standard operating protocol, will have to undergo mandatory 14-day quarantine on their arrival due to the Covid-19 situation. Secretary, NRI Affairs, Punjab, Rahul Bhandari, said deportees from Punjab will be quarantined in their respective districts, while those from Haryana will be quarantined in their home state.“We are trying to tie up with far-off states like Gujarat, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and will quarantine their deportees if they request us to do so,” he added.Haryana officials said they were working out the modalities for quarantining the deportees. The SHRC mission is undertaken by ICE to deport individuals who cannot be removed via commercial airlines to locations worldwide, or because of other security concerns or risk factors. An SHRC flight costs about $6,929 (Rs 5.25 lakh) to $26,795 (Rs 20.3 lakh) per flight hour depending on aircraft requirement, according to an ICE statement.WOMEN, TEENAGERS ON BOARDDHS records show that among 161 deportees arriving on May 19 at Amritsar, three are women – two from Gujarat and one from Maharashtra — and three 19-year olds (two from Haryana’s Kaithal and Kurukshetra and one from UP’s Pilibhit ). Besides, there are at least 15 deportees who are 20 years or less. The oldest deportee is a 59-year-old resident of Hoshiarpur in Punjab.CROSSOVERS FROM MEXICOStatistics show that 92 Indian migrants were detained by US Customs and Border Protection personnel in Texas after they illegally crossed into the US from Mexico. There were 21 detentions in New York, 22 in Atlanta and as many in San Francisco.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/high-risk-deportation-flight-with-132-haryana-punjab-immigrants-to-land-on-may-19/story-FfRDJOdayBvQxPM3MPpuGO.html
18-05-2020||Delhi||International Museum Day 2020: Preserving the pandemic memorabilia is no easy feat||With the coffers being hit, museums across the world have been forced to forego, in partial or in full, safekeeping of the past, and focus on the present with an eye towards the future. Reportedly, the Museum of London has asked people to donate objects that reflect their life during the Covid-19 pandemic. From face masks to slippers, documentary evidences have come in various forms. And more than 900 pieces of work have been submitted already to the Covid Art Museum — a virtual gallery created by three advertising creatives from Barcelona — that aims to document life in the lockdown on social media.  As COVID-19 affects our lives in unprecedented ways, we want to collect objects and experiences of Londoners. From how London has transformed from a bustling metropolis to a maze of hushed streets, to the effects on our social & working lives. More info: https://t.co/xr4l6v9599 pic.twitter.com/iCYOJS6ZYQIn the United States, the Smithsonian’s National Museum of American History is collecting objects including personal protection equipment (PPE) and patients’ illustrations. In India, however, an initiative to archive such materials is yet to be initiated. Sanjib Kumar Singh, archaeologist at the National Museum in Delhi, says museums are pivotal in protecting the culture and experiences of a place. ‘’We must focus on both tangible and intangible aspects of the pandemic when we eventually go out to record how coronavirus impacted India. From masks, PPE kits to thermometers and photos, all will go on to help future generations understand this period,’’ he says.  '𝐑𝐄𝐕𝐈𝐓𝐀𝐋𝐈𝐒𝐈𝐍𝐆 𝐌𝐔𝐒𝐄𝐔𝐌𝐒 & 𝐂𝐔𝐋𝐓𝐔𝐑𝐀𝐋 𝐒𝐏𝐀𝐂𝐄𝐒'DMCS is delighted to present a webinar to commemorate the International Museum Day on the 18th of May 2020. The webinar will go live on our Facebook page: DMCS2020 at 4.30 PM IST. Save a spot & share away! pic.twitter.com/tkvSqoQ1giGurugram-based Aditya Arya, who has converted a badminton court into a camera museum to showcase the art and science of photography, believes that photographers are the best visual historians and future generations will rely on images as an important source of reference. He has started an initiative called Lockdown Diaries, where people can upload images of their life as it’s being experienced during the pandemic. For what he calls as a means to capture ‘the journal of our times,’ Arya says, “While we are all in isolation and confined to our homes, our lives continue even during this standstill. It is the little things that we have started paying attention to what was formerly an insignificant aspect of our lives. We intend to create an exhibition with prints of such images at Museo Camera, once the things are back to normal.’’ Author Kishwar Desai, however, feels that the time to document the pandemic in India is still at least six months away. Desai, who is the Chairperson of The Arts and Cultural Heritage Trust that set up The Partition Museum in Amritsar, opines, “To ask people to donate to the museums for documentation may come across as insensitive at the moment as the wound [of battling the coronavirus] is still fresh for many. It’s also impractical to an extent during the lockdown.’’ But, Desai does accord great significance to the oral history that can be preserved at this point in time. “Individuals can record their experiences in a diary, or videos, which can later become a part of the metanarrative of any museum. And these voices must come from all strata of the society; from migrants to NGOs to ordinary citizens who have responded to this crisis in different ways,” Desai adds.   Bani Abidi is a Pakistani artist who uses the medium of art to express her outlook on the Partition and its effects on the current scenario. Having completed her studies in painting and printmaking, she uses performance, video, photography, and digital imaging, to create installations that address issues of national and cultural identity in relation to Partition. In particular, she explores the emotional impact of politics and historical events on the people of the subcontinent. A large number of her artworks are video installations created in a documentary-style format. Though they refer to real situations, the scenes portrayed in her video are imaginary and often choreographed by the artist. One of her earliest works, 'Mangoes' (1999) shows a Pakistani and an Indian woman eating mangoes together. They each share stories about their childhood and nostalgia, which slowly turns into a chatter of competitive boasting about the fruit grown in their respective homelands. Through this work, Abidi reveals the idea of a shared history between the two women that has been severed due to Partition, as nations grew and developed in the subcontinent. Abedi also explores the larger theme of migration through her video installation, "Section Yellow", that shows the surreal and yet familiar situation of people applying for visas to cross borders. Through gestures and sounds, the artist looks at the psychological space of waiting rooms in visa offices, where people are waiting for their turn while planning for a life elsewhere. . Image 1: ‘Section Yellow’ Image 2: ‘Section Yellow’ Image 3: ‘Mangoes’ . . Credits: Culture Trip, Guggenheim, Baltic Plus. & www.baniabidi.com . . . #PartitionMuseum #Partition #Museum #PartitionArt #Art #ModernArt #Video #Photography #Installation #History #SharedHeritage #India #Pakistan #Bangladesh #SectionYellow #MangoesA post shared by  Partition Museum, Amritsar (@partitionmuseum) on Apr 16, 2020 at 3:31am PDTAdwaita Gadanayak, director general of National Gallery of Modern Art (NGMA), concurs with Desai’s sentiment and says that he isn’t sure of how the pandemic is going to permanently affect museums. He elaborates: “We are in touch with different artists who are working under adverse conditions during the lockdown. NGMA is also taking the virtual route to digitise various documents. But, two things are for certain — People are not coming back to our brick and mortar buildings for a while, and we will have to rethink our long and short term strategies.’’ Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow @htlifeandstyle for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/international-museum-day-2020-preserving-the-pandemic-memorabilia-is-no-easy-feat/story-UkjmgCMFsspm82GdnuK8BI.html
18-05-2020||Bangalore||Covid-19: Prohibitory orders extended till May 19 in Bengaluru||Bengaluru Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao on Monday extended the prohibitory orders under Section 144 (1) till May 19 in the city in order to contain the Covid-19 spread.Bengaluru city is classified under the red zone.According to the guidelines all domestic and international air travel of passengers, except for medical services, air ambulance and for security purposes or for purposes as permitted by MHA will remain prohibited.“All passenger movement by trains, except for security purposes or for purposes as permitted by MHA, Metro Rail services, all school, colleges, educational institutes will remain prohibited,” the order read.The order further stated that the movement of individuals, for all non-essential activities, shall remain strictly prohibited between 7 pm to 7 am.The Central government on May 17 extended the ongoing Covid-19 induced nationwide lockdown till May 31, but with a set of new relaxations commencing from today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/covid-19-prohibitory-orders-extended-till-may-19-in-bengaluru/story-9k82Vb9BmljrMxkUgkdS6O.html
18-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi disallows testing dead bodies for Covid||The Delhi government’s revised guidelines for the disposal of dead bodies of people with Covid-19 prohibit hospitals from collecting samples from the bodies.The new standard operating procedures (SoP), issued Sunday, have to be followed for the disposal of the bodies of those who tested positive for the disease before death, a person whose sample had been collected before death and tested positive after, or for any person who died after being admitted to a hospital on suspicion of having the viral infection.“No sample for Covid-19 test will be taken of a dead body. However, if doctors are satisfied from clinical examination that the cause of death may be Covid-19 infection, the dead body may be released as suspect Covid-19 infected dead body,” the order, issued by Delhi’s health secretary Padmini Singla, read.So far, Covid-19 designated hospitals were testing those brought dead to the hospital and suspected to have the infection, before releasing the body.The move is expected to help conserve testing kits. Recently, the Union ministry of health changed the country’s discharge policy for Covid-19 patients to allow those with mild to moderate symptoms to go back home without two negative tests, which were earlier required for a discharge.Only one negative swab test is required for those with severe infection, according to the revised guidelines.The Delhi guidelines on disposing of dead bodies mentions four scenarios: when the death happens in a hospital, if the death happens in other government isolation facilities for mild cases, if the death happens outside of these health care facilities, or if there is an unclaimed body or a body found in a public space.The SoPs state that in case if a person dies in a hospital or is brought dead to one, trained health care workers will have to handle and pack the body and provide a hearse van to carry the body to cremation or burial ground. After burial or cremation, the hearse van has to be properly disinfected. In case there are no relatives of the deceased, the body needs to be properly disinfected and kept in the mortuary; the hospital can decide if an autopsy is required.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-disallows-testing-dead-bodies-for-covid/story-j5n7Dc011wNrZ4hDimi2FJ.html
18-05-2020||Delhi||Delhiwallah: City without hope||He had never imagined he would see such a day. “Calling Papa and Mummy in the village to send me urgent money filled me with sadness.... At my age, the son is supposed to give to the father, and not the father to give to the son.”But things have turned upside down for most of us. And Anil Kumar Shah, sadly, is no exception.Talking on WhatsApp video, this Gurugram gardener is puzzled by the circumstances. “I left the village to make a better living in the big city, and yet I have to depend on my father for survival.”His father is in his early 70s and looks after a small farming land in Bihar’s Motihari district. Mr Shah tries his best to make savings, but almost everything he earns is usually spent in the daily living of his own family in the Millenium City. He lives with his wife, Vibha Devi, and little sons, Ayush and Aryan, in a small one-room dwelling in Indira Colony. The photos were taken through the phone screen that connected them to this reporter.In his late 20s, Mr Shah looks after the private gardens of half a dozen residences in Sushant Lok. But he was recently unable to work for almost a month, because of the lockdown imposed by the coronavirus pandemic. Now, with a relative ease in the restriction on his movement, he has been able to go out and return to “duty”.The one month in which he had to stay at home was a trauma. “We exhausted our money,” he says. He thought of returning to the village but his wife persuaded him otherwise. There were no trains or buses, and informal transportation might have put the safety of the kids at risk. Ultimately, Mr Shah was forced to call his father for help, who sent them Rs 5,000 through complicated means — the details of which were difficult to understand over the phone chat.There was another reason for Mr Shah to stay on rather than to risk the long journey home. His father informed him on phone that those who managed to return were sent for a two-week quarantine in the village school. “Who knows what food they would have given us in the school, or if they would have given us anything at all... my region is very poor... that’s why we have to live and work so far.”Even so, one craves for love and shelter that only a home can offer in times of distress. Mr Shah has been in Gurugram for almost a decade, it is his home. But the city failed him, he feels. He says he closely followed in the news the fate of the labourers stranded without work and food in the cities they were working in, following the lockdown. “The city is not ours.”The house in Indira Colony is also feeling like a burden. “The landlord is demanding the full rent of ~5,000.”Once the lockdown eases further and trains start running to full capacity again, Mr Shah is strongly toying with the idea to go back to the village with his family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/city-without-hope/story-NnVPuCbz8Gj3WS2iVnCwAP.html
18-05-2020||City||Feel betrayed, but will return to karambhoomi Ludhiana once things are normal, say migrants||Left to their own devices with little food and money amid the pandemic-induced lockdown, anxious migrants continue to hit the road at night even as the government has promised trains and buses to ferry them home.With no money to pay the rent or buy food, migrants flooding the highway say they feel betrayed by their employers, the government and the city they once served, but say they will come back once normalcy returns.“We came here to make money. If we can’t do that then what’s the point of staying back,” says Suraj Kumar, hailing from Ambedkar Nagar in Uttar Pradesh, who seen walking with a 20-kg sack on his back. “We will come back once the factories become operational again,” he adds.Sanjay, another migrant who was seen walking in a group of about 50 people, said, “Ludhiana is our karmanbhoomi (place of work). We come back when everything is normal.”But not all are as forgiving. Ajay, a migrant, who along with six others, was cycling to his village at Muzaffarpur district in Bihar, said, “We worked at a spinning mill in Doraha. Since March, we have not been paid a penny by the mill owner. We have exhausted all our savings. We brought the cycle from the money sent by our families back home. We have been mistreated and will never return.”CHILDREN WORST HITWhile the adults fight their own battle with the uncertain furture, it’s the plight of the children walking with them that is the most heart-wrenching. Most are too young to understand what is happening and why they have to leave a place they once called home. While three-year-old Rohit was seen asking his mother to carry him in her arms, stating that he could not walk anymore, 11-year-old Subhnish, who was carrying the sack over his head, said he will miss his friends here.“Ludhiana was my home and Hardoi in Uttar Pradesh was the place where my grandparents live. My friends were asking me when I would return. I do not know,” he says as he continues on the odious journey, not sure how far home is.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/feel-betrayed-but-will-return-to-karambhoomi-ludhiana-once-things-are-normal-say-migrants/story-Qad1SBhiQxsd1e1tN1TPgI.html
18-05-2020||City||25 years on, Tibetan government-in-exile renews call for Panchen Lama’s release||On the 25th anniversary of his disappearance, the Tibetan government-in-exile on Sunday demanded China to release the 11th Panchen Lama Gedhun Choekyi Nyima, considered to be a reincarnation of Bodhisattva Amitabha.In a statement issue here, Sikyong (president) of the exiled government, Lobsang Sangay, said China’s abduction of the Panchen Lama and forcible denial of his religious identity and the right to practice in his monastery is not only a violation of religious freedom but also a gross violation of human rights.Panchen Lama was just six years old when he was allegedly abducted by the Chinese government on May 17, 1995, along with his family members, after he was recognised by the Dalai Lama as the reincarnation of the 10th Panchen Lama.“Since that day, Buddhists around the world and Tibetans in exile have been living in the hope that one day they will be able to receive his blessings,” said Sangay.After orchestrating the disappearance of the 11th Panchen Lama, Sangay alleged that China, a self-declared atheist government and infamous for its persecution of religious groups, placed a young boy, Gyaltsen Norbu, as their own 11th Panchen Lama.“This politically-motivated action failed, however, to displace the position of the true Panchen Lama from the hearts and minds of the Tibetan people. For Tibetans and Buddhists around the world, Gedhun Choekyi Nyima will always be the true Panchen Lama,” he added.Today marks the 25th anniversary of the 11th Panchen Lama’s disappearance, said Sangay, adding that 25 years is a significant time in an individual’s life.He said the communist government must honour its claim of ethnic harmony in China by fulfilling the aspirations of the Tibetan people.“It must right the wrong and release the 11th Panchen Lama along with his family, Chadrel Rinpoche, and all Tibetans unjustly imprisoned,” he said while appealing to the international community to make a concerted effort to press China to release Nyima and resolve the critical human rights situation in Tibet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/25-years-on-tibetan-government-in-exile-renews-call-for-panchen-lama-s-release/story-kuiP1GofAVkQ9MZSKwPCpM.html
18-05-2020||City||Five more Covid-19 patients recover in Himachal; active cases come down to 31||Five more Covid-19 patients recovered in Himachal Pradesh on Sunday, bringing down the tally of active cases to 31Two patients are from Chamba; two from Mandi and one from Kangra,” special secretary (health) Nipun Jindal said.The two patients from Chamba were tested positive on May 6. Later, four contacts of one of the patients including his two-year-old daughter also tested positive for the virus.The third patient from Jogindernagar in Mandi district had returned from Delhi on April 28 and tested positive for Covid-19 on May 4.While the fourth patient, a 48-year-old woman from Sarkaghat of Mandi district, was admitted at Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC), Shimla. She was the primary contact of her 21-year-old son who died of the disease on May 5 at IGMC.She accompanied her son, who was also suffering from a kidney ailment, to Shimla and was tested positive on May 7—two days her son’s death.The fifth patient is a 43-year-old man from Jamanabad village near Kangra town. He had a travel history to Dubai and returned to his village on April 27 from Delhi. He was tested positive on May 6.Jindal said that cured patients will be kept in 14-day institutional quarantine. They will be sent home once they test negative at the completion of the observation period.With the recovery of five patients, the active cases in the state have come down to 31 from 36.Himachal witnessed a spurt in coronavirus cases since May 4, with 38 people testing positive. Two people have died due to the virus during the corresponding period.To date, the state has recorded a total of 78 cases, including three fatalities. So far, 40 people have recovered in state.Kangra is the worst-hit district with 20 cases followed by Una with 18 cases and Chamba with 12 cases.Nine cases have been reported in Solan, eight in Hamirpur, four each in Sirmaur and Bilaspur, and three in Mandi. To date, 17,431 people have been tested for Covid-19 in the state and over 21,000 are under active surveillance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-more-covid-19-patients-recover-in-himachal-active-cases-come-down-to-31/story-neE2bUH9fyfhNu80IcKTRL.html
18-05-2020||City||NGOs conduct meeting with police officials, take up migrants’ problems||Getting no ration, being cheated by private bus operators and becoming an easy target of snatchers are some of the prominent problems being faced by migrants in the city.These issues were highlighted by social activists and members of various non-government organisations (NGOs) during a meeting held with police officials at the Moti Nagar police station here on Sunday.The meeting, which was held under instructions of deputy commissioner of police Akhil Chaudhary, was attended by additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP–4) Ajinder Singh and other police officials. In the meeting, police officials briefed about the migrant welfare committees to be formed at ward, area or village levels to solve the problems of migrants.Social workers apprised police officials about the problems being faced by the migrants during the meeting.RK Yadav from Yadav Ahir Mahasabha, an NGO, said, “A number of migrants are still not getting ration despite applying on the helpline number. There are some migrants, who do not have mobile phones and Aadhaar cards, so it is difficult for them to apply and get ration.”“Besides, some private bus operators are charging Rs 3,000-Rs 4,000 from migrants to take them to their hometowns. But, when the buses are stopped in Haryana or are not allowed to enter Uttar Pradesh, these migrants are forced to cover the remaining distance on foot. If these buses are not allowed to enter other states, then why these bus operators are being given permission to ferry passengers. Are the migrants not being cheated and harassed?,” he pointed outYadav added, “As some factories and shops have opened but, during evening hours, roads remain deserted and when migrant workers are returning to their quarters, some miscreants are targeting these workers and snatching their mobile phones. Incidents of snatchings are increasing in the city amid lockdown. So, police should increase patrolling during evening hours.”Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP–headquarters) Deepak Pareek said the administration has received permission to run buses for 10 districts of Uttar Pradesh and the administration is working on starting buses.As of now, some private bus operators are operating buses without permission from the state government due to which they were not being allowed to enter states.Talking on the safety of migrants, ADCP Pareek said, “As many as 42 check points have been set up in different areas in the city where police personnel are present 24 hours. Further, we are regularly creating awareness among the migrants not to roam about unnecessarily on the roads. If they do not have shelter, we are also offering them the facility of shelter homes,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ngos-conduct-meeting-with-police-officials-take-up-migrants-problems/story-rQOKlIctDUTAXtE2cwjllK.html
18-05-2020||City||Hizb IED expert killed in Doda encounter, army jawan martyred||An Improvised Explosive Device (IED) expert of Hizb-ul-Mujahideen was killed in an encounter in Jammu and Kashmir’s Doda on Sunday.However, a soldier of 10 RR was martyred in the five-hour encounter in the Gundana area of the district.Following the killing of Hizb-ul-Mujahideen’s operational chief of J&K, Riyaz Naikoo, the terror outfit received a major jolt as security forces gunned down its IED expert on Sunday.Doda district police chief, Mumtaz Ahmad, however, didn’t confirm the elimination of another terrorist, he said, “We suspect two terrorists have been killed but cannot confirm till entire debris is removed.”Acting on a specific input about the presence of a top Hizb commander Tahir Ahmed Bhat in Doda, the security forces launched an operation. A cordon was laid and as the security forces zeroed in on the built-up area where terrorists were hiding, the terrorists fired upon them triggering the encounter, said inspector general of police Mukesh Singh.In the encounter that followed, Tahir Ahmed Bhat was killed and an AK 47 rifle and magazine were recovered.Tahir Ahmed Bhat joined the terror outfit early last year. “His name had figured in the fabrication of IED which exploded near a CRPF convoy at Banihal in March 2019. He had subsequently visited Chenab Valley and was given the task of recruiting youth and reviving Hizb activities in the Chenab valley,” the IGP added.He was also part of a group of Hizb terrorists who killed RSS activist Chanderkant Sharma and his PSO in April 2019.The same AK 47 rifle which was taken away that time has been recovered after the encounter today, said the IGP.“With this operation, an attempt of the terror outfit to revive activities in Doda has been nipped. The designs of the Hizb to target security forces convoy and camps have also been thwarted. Tahir Bhat was a close associate of the present operational commander of Saifullah alias Dr Saif and was assigned the task of ‘revival of terrorism’ in Chenab Valley comprising Doda, Kishtwar and Ramban districts by recruiting more youth from there,” said the IGP.Chenab valley was declared militancy free in the late 1990s.The slain terrorist was directed by his mentors to target security forces and carry out some sensitive and sensational attacks in Chenab Valley to create insecurity among the people and to disturb the peaceful atmosphere. He was complicit in several terror crimes including attacks on security establishments and civilian atrocities.Singh said that his killing will create a huge deterrence to the revival of militancy in Chenab Valley.A day after Hizb chief Riyaz Naikoo was killed in Kashmir, security forces on May 7 arrested an overground worker of the outfit from Doda district.He was identified as Raqib Alam, 22, son of Seeraj Din, a resident of Swanda village.There has been a spurt in terror activities across J&K amid Covid 19 pandemic.Jammu region’s Doda area comprising Doda, Kishtwar and Ramban districts, which have been declared militancy free, have also witnessed terror attacks and related activities amid the lockdown.Security forces on April 17 eliminated two Hizb-ul-Mujahideen terrorists, who had hacked a special police officer (SPO) to death with an axe and critically injured another on April 13 in Dachhan area of Kishtwar district.The National Investigation Agency on Friday filed a chargesheet against six people, including three slain Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) terrorists and three arrested overground workers of the terror group for providing support to Pakistan-based terrorists to kill BJP leader Anil Parihar and his brother Ajeet Parihar in Jammu’s Kishtwar.The chargesheet has been filed in the special NIA Court, Jammu against the six accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hizb-ied-expert-killed-in-doda-encounter-army-jawan-martyred/story-ODqRCFytMhfS7nUIoSQnqK.html
18-05-2020||City||Close shave for 30 as Uhal-III project’s penstock bursts||Thirty engineers and workers had a close shave after penstock of Uhal-III power project bursted at Lad-Bhadol of Jogindernagar in Mandi district late on Saturday.A penstock harnesses fast-running pressurised water and delivers it to the turbines for production of electricity in hydel projects.As the penstock bursted, water and muck gushed into powerhouse premises trapping engineers and workers present inside and causing damage to the machinery. The spot where the burst occurred is 150-metre away from the powerhouse.The 100m MV hydroelectric power project was in the testing phase.Jogindernagar sub-divisional magistrate Amit Mehra said that as per report 8-megawatt electricity was being generated through one of the turbines.“Penstock bursted when the engineers increased pressure to enhance the load to 16-megawatt. He said that one of the engineers climbed up the hillock, where the burst took place and closed the penstock valve, preventing further damage. The damage is being assessed,” he said. Uhal-III hydropower project is being executed by HPSEBL-run Beas Valley Power Corporation (BVPC).The HPSEBL had estimated the project cost at ₹1,000 crore and the project was to be completed by 2009. However, the project deadline was revised four times in the last 11 years, pushing the cost to ₹1,800 crore.The cost overrun was caused by delay in land acquisition and non-performance by the contractors.The project has three turbines of 33.3-megawatt capacity each. Once fully operational, the project will generate about 450 million units of electricity every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/close-shave-for-30-as-uhal-iii-project-s-penstock-bursts/story-qhmJDEPzIrAzZr2GTlpYqJ.html
18-05-2020||City||Buses carrying migrant workers from Haryana return from UP border||Over 20 buses ferrying migrants from Ambala to Saharanpur, were sent back from Yamunanagar on Sunday evening as those walking homes thronged the Saharanpur highway.Officials said there were reports that a number of migrant labourers had thronged the Saharanpur highway. The buses were sent back to Yamunanagar as there were apprehensions that they may get stuck due to law and order problems arising at the border, they said.As per details, around 540 migrants had left from a shelter home in Ambala city’s Radha Swami Satsang Bhawan at around 11 am but came back disappointed after waiting for four hours in Yamunanagar district.Ambala SP Abhishek Jorwal and his counterpart in Yamunanagar, Himanshu Garg, both cited the “law and order issue” on part of the Saharanpur administration that led to this chaos.Abhishek Jorwal said, “Over 20 buses were brought back to Yamunanagar after reports of thousands of migrants blocking the highway had surfaced. These migrants will now be sent to their native places on Monday.”Several migrants sent back to Punjab from Shambhu borderAmid scorching heat, many migrants from Punjab who had started walking to their native places crossing Ambala and Yamunanagar in Haryana were sent back to Punjab on Sunday.Many migrants claimed that the police told them they are being taken to a shelter home, but were taken to the Shambhu border and asked to go back to Punjab. Many migrant workers tried to block the highway.“I was going to Etawah district in UP and when I was about to reach the border, police officials asked us to board a bus to get our medical test done and later asked us to go back to Punjab,” said a migrant worker.SP Abhishek Jorwal said that the Punjab government has now allowed migrants to enter the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/buses-carrying-migrant-workers-from-haryana-return-from-up-border/story-SHJOhrlwhIPjJFJy9aNV6N.html
18-05-2020||City||2 killed, 9 injured after landslide hits Jammu-Srinagar NH||Two persons were killed, while nine were rescued and four went missing on Sunday when a massive landslide hit the Jammu-Srinagar National Highway in J&K’s Ramban district. A police officer said a massive landslide washed away an earth-moving machine and a truck along with their operators in Seri sector of Jammu-Srinagar national highway in Ramban district.“One body has been recovered so far, four others have been rescued while two persons are still missing in this accident.“The landslide was so massive that nine vehicles were buried under it. The four rescued persons have been shifted to hospital while rescue and recovery operation is still going on”, the officer said.The over 40-kilometre long Ramban-Ramsoo stretch of the nearly 300-Kilometre long highway has become infamous for landslides and shooting stones triggered by rainfall those often causes accidents on this road.All essentials of life are routed into the landlocked Valley through this highway, known as the lifeline of Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-killed-9-injured-after-landslide-hits-jammu-srinagar-nh/story-MKsswNLJowl03cIUG4OInL.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||In Jhajjar, active cases only in Bahadurgarh block||With the discharge of 11 infected Jhajjar patients from the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in Rohtak on Sunday, three out of four blocks of the district became coronavirus-free. Jhajjar administration was being praised for not letting the deadly virus enter its territory till April 26 even though it shares its border with Delhi, one of the worst-hit cities in the country. But by May 2, Jhajjar emerged as a new hotspot with most active cases (40) in any district. The district has, meanwhile, seen a sharp dip in active cases. Jhajjar civil surgeon Dr Randeep Punia said 53 of the 90 Covid-19 patients in the district have recovered and been discharged from PGIMS so far. “With the discharge of 11 patients in a single day, three blocks — Beri, Jhajjar and Badli —have got rid of the coronavirus. All 37 active cases belong to Bahadurgarh city. Even the villages in Bahadurgarh block are now Covid-free,” Punia added. Punia said most of their patients recovered before 14-day time and “few of them even got cured in just five days”.3RD ROUND OF SAMPLING STARTSCivil surgeon Punia said they have started the third round of random sampling in Bahadurgarh and Jhajjar cities. “We have collected over 3,500 samples and covered 1.7 lakh slum residents through random sampling twice. Most of the positive cases detected were linked to Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi followed by Delhi government employees, who were commuting on daily basis from district,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/in-jhajjar-active-cases-only-in-bahadurgarh-block/story-mPKtmyZvnEK0WDrBvd5p3J.html
18-05-2020||City||ITBP, army step up vigil after Chinese choppers violated Indian air space, twice||SHIMLA : Indo Tibetan Border Police - frontier force has stepped up vigil along international border with China in tribal Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti districts after the Chinese choppers violated Indian airspace twice in April and then in first week of May.Chinese choppers have been spotted twice in Sumdoh in tribal Lahaul and Spiti district that shares it’s borders with China . Indo Tibetan border police had spotted two Chinese choppers on April 11 and then again on April 20th . Himachal Pradesh shares 260 km of porous borders with China. Of the total border length, 140 km is along tribal Kinnaur district, while 80 km of border falls in tribal Lahaul and Spiti district.Five battalions of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) are guarding the border with China. In total, there are 20 ITBP posts along the border. The sensitive post includes Kaurik - it’s the last village situated beyond Sumdoh.The ITBP posts are situated in Lakuma, Morrang, Morni, Dogri, Rishi Dogri, Domti and Niltahla pass.” In the wake of reports of air incursions along international border, the police is keeping on situation “ said Inspector General of Police , ( intelligence) Daljeet Singh Thakur. Indian Tibetan Border Police and the army conducted recce along the international border after Chinese choppers violated the Indian air space and beefed up security . Chinese army choppers usually conducts aerial reconnaissance in April and May months . While the Indian army choppers also carried areil reconnaissance along the border .The military and Indo Tibetan Border Police personnel could not trace any tale signs left by the Chinese helicopters.Chinese army has been constantly strengthening its infrastructure along international border in Lahaul Spiti and Kinnaur district , even as frontiers were peaceful during the 1962 aggression . There are high passes along the Chinese border that forbids the troops from both sides to intrude into each other’s territory. The main passes between China and India in Himachal Pradesh includes the Khimokul Pass and Simthong Pass, located ahead of the Trungla valley, which crosses into China-occupied Tibet.Similarly, the 5,280-m-high Rangio La and 5,320 Keobrangla pass situated ahead of Nesang valley lead to Tibet.Yamrangla - situated at the height of 5,570 m - is the highest mountain pass. The 5,200-m-high Shipki La pass is the most famous pass between the India-China border.Shipki La Pass is used for the cross-border trade between two countries. The trade route was closed after the Chinese aggression in 1962, but was reopened after India and China signed a protocol in 1994. The trade between the two countries restarted in 1994.Shigastay, in China, controlled Tibetan autonomous Region is the closest air base to Indian border. Airport in Shigastay is being dually used for army and civilian flights are nearly 100 kilometres away from Kaurik in Kinnaur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/itbp-army-step-up-vigil-after-chinese-choppers-violated-indian-air-space-twice/story-iXnBoXSoXM32DQrwXyggqI.html
18-05-2020||City||Migrants walking home made to stay at shelter home in Hisar||Trudging towards their native villages, 16 migrant labourers were stopped near the Hisar-Delhi highway and brought to a shelter home by the police here on Sunday.Over 250 migrants have been housed in Radha Soami Satsang Ghar, where they are getting food, drinking water, hand sanitisers and masks. The shelter home workers have also provided them footwear.Most of these labourers had started their on-foot journey four days ago from Bathinda while crossing various villages to return home.Manoj Dayal, in-charge of the shelter home, said out of the total migrants staying there, 116 belonged to Bihar, 64 were from Uttar Pradesh (UP) and 68 from Madhya Pradesh (MP). “Three-time meals, drinking water, masks and sanitisers are available for them here. We are trying to keep them safe at the shelter homes till the government arranges buses for their return. Besides this, a team of doctors also visits here for their regular check-ups,” Dayal added.Mahendra Singh of Sonhadra in UP said he started his journey from Bathinda four days ago with his wife Kaushalya and four-year-old child Bajrangi. “I was a daily wager in Bathinda. My landlord asked us to leave as I was unable to pay the rent. So, I decided to head for Delhi.”Rameshwar Kumar of Panna area of MP said he was working as a labourer in Hisar, but used up all his all savings during the lockdown while there was no income.“I started for my home as all my savings dried up due to the lockdown. But the police brought me to the shelter home. Though we are getting food and other facilities here, I am worried about my family at my native place. I request the state government to arrange buses so we can go home soon,” Rameshwar said.Superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia said, “The Hisar police is keeping an eye on migrant labourers. Walking on the roads is not safe so we have given them a safe place to stay.”Hisar deputy commissioner Priyanka Soni said, “The administration and social organisations are providing food, drinking water, mask and hand sanitisers to the migrants. As soon we will get directions from the higher authorities to send them home, we will arrange buses for them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrants-walking-home-made-to-stay-at-shelter-home-in-hisar/story-MUlgBnrcIZO6T64KxZglqM.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana sends 1.6 lakh migrants to native places||More than 1.6 lakh migrant and agricultural labourers have gone back to their home states in ‘Shramik Special’ trains and buses free of cost till Sunday as the entire expenses were borne by Haryana government, a government spokesperson said.As many as 28 trains have so far been sent to Bihar and 12 to Madhya Pradesh from Haryana, while the migrant workers have also gone back to various states through more than 3,100 buses, the spokesperson said.“The entire cost of trains and buses incurred to send migrant workers to their home states is being borne by the Haryana government,” the spokesperson said.“Free arrangements are being made by the government to keep these labourers in relief centres and to bring them to the railway stations and bus stands.”Over 75,600 migrant labourers have been sent to Uttar Pradesh, 37,866 to Bihar, 14,940 to Uttarakhand and 19,982 to Madhya Pradesh.The spokesperson said the state government has also helped migrant labourers of Jammu and Kashmir, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Assam, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh.Similarly, about 11,000 natives of Haryana have been brought back from other states and the process is still on, the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-sends-1-6-lakh-migrants-to-native-places/story-oQAWxCf5IHTUzVwfSNnCvL.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||Corona negative report must for people entering Haryana from Delhi||With more than 70% of the coronavirus cases in Haryana reported from four districts adjoining Delhi, Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Sunday said anyone entering the state from the national capital ought to have a negative test report. He said the state has indicated to the Centre that commercial activities may be resumed in areas excluding containment zones in Haryana during the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown.Vij said in this hour of crisis “we have to save lives and focus on expanding business. Hence, there is a need to formulate strict laws along with relaxation in lockdown”.“Just as wearing of helmets is mandatory, in the same manner law should be made for wearing face masks compulsory,” he said in a statement.Vij said the world is in a crisis and we have to think before taking any step.He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has already taken a serious note of this issue. He said if there is life there is hope.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/corona-negative-report-must-for-people-entering-haryana-from-delhi/story-YWjErRat8JHD4R6plGdzYM.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||Increase in borrowings will provide much-needed liquidity: Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar||The central government’s decision to increase the borrowing limits of states from 3% to 5% of the gross state domestic product (GSDP) for 2020-21 will help open up the fiscal space and provide much needed liquidity for the financially stressed Haryana government.The state government has been struggling to raise financial resources even after the resumption of economic activity post-April 20 relaxations.The drastically changed economic situation has forced the state government to heavily rely on market borrowings for running its day-to-day affairs. The state has borrowed Rs 5,000 crore in April and Rs 2,000 crore in May to tide over the fiscal crisis. It spends anything between Rs 6,200 to Rs 7,500 crore every month on payment of salaries, pensions of retired employees, social security pensions, wages to contractual employees, rural electrification and domestic subsidy, and payment of interests and debts.Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who also holds the finance portfolio, on Sunday said the increased borrowing limits allowed by the Centre would help them achieve the targets envisaged for various sectors which stood adversely impacted due to Covid-19 lockdown.Additional chief secretary (ACS) finance TVSN Prasad said the state government was keyed up to embark on the reforms programme announced by the Union finance minister on Sunday. “The proposed reforms will also provide a window of opportunity for fundamental, structural and fiscal reforms which will improve the efficiency of four sectors along with the service delivery,” Prasad said. An ordinance will be promulgated by the state government to amend the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act to facilitate increased borrowings.A part of the borrowings have been linked to specific reforms like implementation of ‘One nation one ration card’, district level and licensing reforms for ease of doing business, power sector reforms and reforms for strengthening urban local bodies.Prasad said to provide adequate infrastructure and services in municipal areas, particularly to the area where economically weaker sections reside, it is important to update and strengthen tax recovery and user charge systems from economically affluent areas, and cross subsidise. “With this kind of reform, the urban local bodies will be able to develop capacity to deliver their mandate better, in the true spirit of the 74th amendment of the Constitution,” the ACS said.Following the announcement by the Union finance minister, the central government on Sunday told the states that the additional debt will have to be balanced against the need for long-term debt sustainability. This is important that excess borrowing undertaken does not lead to adverse impacts in the future. In order to ensure sustainability, there is a need to increase future GSDP growth and revenues and reduce unproductive future expenditures, said a finance ministry communication.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/increase-in-borrowings-will-provide-much-needed-liquidity-haryana-cm-manohar-lal-khattar/story-sGw7EvGWn6umtaGVQB4GRP.html
18-05-2020||City||‘Mild force’ used to disperse migrants blocking highway in Yamunanagar||At least 300 labourers, who were camping at Karheda shelter home in Yamunanagar, tried to block the highway and demanded to be sent back to their home towns, prompting police to use ‘mild force’ to disperse them on Sunday. A video also surfaced on social media platforms showing many of them running away to nearby fields, leaving behind their luggage, cycles and footwear. SP Himanshu Garg said, “Some migrants tried to block the highway and also pelted stones at policemen. Mild force was used to send them back to the shelter home. No FIR has been registered in the case.”“Most of the protesters belonged to Bihar. Currently, they are being sent back only by trains. We are sending migrants from UP by buses and that is why they demanded to be sent by buses as well. However, buses are plying regularly as no-objection certificates for these are easy to obtain from other states. But in the case of trains, Railways ministry gets involved and coordination between all parties take time,” SP Garg added. Cong flays Khattar govtSlamming the Khattar government over the incident, senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala said the BJP had ‘sold dreams’ to the poor to come to power and now it was ‘insensitive’ towards their plight.Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja, while tagging the viral video on Twitter, also criticised the police action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mild-force-used-to-disperse-migrants-blocking-highway-in-yamunanagar/story-kuOD6JoxFTtDUbW7lU5qtM.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||45-year-old Faridabad man dies of Covid; 23 new cases reported in Haryana||Haryana on Sunday reported one more Covid-related death and 23 fresh cases, 11 from Gurugram alone, which took the death toll to 14 and infection count to 910 in the state.According to officials, a 45-year-old man from Faridabad succumbed to the virus on Sunday. Six people have died of Covid-19 in Faridabad district so far. Faridabad health officials said he was admitted to a private hospital on May 12 after his sugar level rose. “He tested positive for coronavirus next day and was shifted to a Covid hospital, where he died on Saturday night,” the official added. The infection continues to spread in Gurugram, where 11 new cases were reported, followed by Rohtak (4), Faridabad (3), Panipat (2), and Karnal, Sirsa and Mahendergarh (1 each).As per the health bulletin, of 910 Covid-19 patients, 562 have recovered and been discharged. Until Sunday evening, Haryana had 334 active cases.On Sunday, four districts adjoining Delhi, Gurugram (100), Faridabad (64), Sonepat (58) and Jhajjar (37) had total 259 active cases, while in 16 districts, the number of active cases was in single digit, hovering from one to nine. Ambala and Yamunanagar districts didn’t have a single active case as on Sunday. In Sonepat, 60-year-old sister of a 75-year-old Tharu village woman, who died of coronavirus last week, tested positive, said DC Ansaj Singh. A Delhi Police staff, who had returned from the national capital on May 12, was also found infected at Mahendergarh’s Khatoli Jat village. A Rewari resident working with Delhi government’s fire department tested positive for Covid-19 as well. Two test positive in Panipat, one in Karnal Two persons with travel history to Mumbai have been tested positive in Panipat. Panipat chief medical officer Sant Lal Verma said the patients include a 22-year-old youth from Hali Colony and a 28-year-old man from Chhotu Ram Colony of Panipat city.Another 40-year-old man has been found infected in Chogawan village of Karnal district. He had returned from Gurugram recently and gone for a surgery at Mullana medical college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/45-year-old-faridabad-man-dies-of-covid-23-new-cases-reported-in-haryana/story-woEnfCIuXyIYokB9peTnyI.html
18-05-2020||City||Covid warriors: Southern California Sikhs pitch in to help thousands with meals, groceries||Southern California’s United Sikh Mission has been distributing about 1,400 meals daily for the past month with help from hundreds of volunteers in the local community, a media report said. This is one of the largest operations in the region, supplying thousands of vegetarian meals not only to seniors and health-care workers at local hospitals, but also through the daily drive-through, India-West news quoted a local media report as saying. In addition, it was also distributing groceries and face masks on weekends at the Jurupa Valley temple here.Gurpreet Singh, a coordinator with the United Sikh Mission, spoke to the Orange County Register of how their small operation, which started out serving about 175 meals daily outside the temple, grew with help from the local Sikh community into a significant project that has handed out 40,000 meals over the past four weeks.The nutritious food is made fresh daily at local restaurants in Fontana and Upland. Volunteers then pack the meals, comprising mostly of rice and lentils seasoned with Indian spices. The Mission is now partnering with community leaders and churches in the Inland Empire to help with meal deliveries to seniors in Jurupa Valley, Moreno Valley and Riverside and to area hospitals.Another organisation pitching in to feed those in need is the Khalsa Food Pantry in Pacoima run by the Khalsa Care Foundation, said the India-West news report. The Food Pantry provides hot meals every Friday in partnership with Los Angeles City Councilwoman Monica Rodriguez’s office.The pantry has started a GoFundMe page to raise donations to meet the increasing demand.Apart from food and groceries, the pantry also provides feminine hygiene products once a month, said the report.In Bakersfield, meanwhile, the Sikh Riders of America, is providing face shields for law enforcement, first-responders and frontline health-care workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-warriors-southern-california-sikhs-pitch-in-to-help-thousands-with-meals-groceries/story-FzxCDy5prQZCxbzWnFvkuK.html
18-05-2020||City||Fogging on migrant labourers: Panipat DC orders probe||A day after a photograph of migrant labourers being sprayed with what appeared to be disinfectant through fogging machines in Panipat surfaced on social media, Panipat deputy commissioner on Sunday ordered an investigation in the matter. DC Hema Sharma has directed Panipat municipal commissioner Om Prakash to conduct the probe and submit his report. She said strict action will be taken against the erring officials on the basis of report’s findings.“This is a very serious matter and needs to be investigated. Action will be taken against the officials, if found to be negligent,” she added. She said as of now, there are no reports of any health issue faced by labourers, who have already left.As per the photographs, which went viral, fogging machines were used to ‘sanitise’ migrant labourers at a temporary shelter home in Sector 25 of Panipat. Panipat municipal corporation officials have been given responsibility to provide basic amenities to labourers coming to the shelter homes. Panipat MC chief Om Prakash could not be contacted for comments after repeated attempts, but investigation officer said, “I have sought explanation from the employees concerned.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fogging-on-migrant-labourers-panipat-dc-orders-probe/story-uHSYk2SGDriLE7iAbsoLZP.html
18-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra records over 2,000 cases in a day; tally 33,053||In a grim first, Maharashtra on Sunday recorded more than 2,000 Covid-19 cases with 2,347 new infections, taking the tally to 33,053. Sunday’s numbers come more than two months after the state started rolling out restrictions to curb the virus’ spread and on the last day of the third phase of the lockdown.The worst-ravaged Indian city, Mumbai, too, registered its highest single-day jump in virus cases with 1,595 new patients, bringing its count past 20,000 to 20,150.The state saw 63 Covid-19 deaths, of which 38 were in Mumbai, nine in Pune, six in Aurangabad, three each in Solapur city and Raigad, one each in Thane rural, Panvel, Latur and Amravati. Thirty-four of the patients who died on Sunday were above 60 years of age, while 22 were in the age group of 40 to 59 years and the remaining seven were below the age of 40 years. Forty-one of them had high-risk comorbidities, including diabetes, hypertension and heart ailments.Hours before the Centre announced it officially on Sunday evening, the Maharashtra government extended the ongoing lockdown by two weeks till May 31. The state government is expected to soon issue its own notification, extending some relaxations for commercial-industrial activities and bringing clarity on the delineation of the zones (red, orange and green). “Although the state government cannot dilute the restrictions imposed by the Centre, it has been given powers to prepare buffer/micro zones. This may increase the number of containment zones, but actual area will decrease, leaving room for activities in the remaining area. Also, the state had not relaxed some restrictions, even though the Centre had allowed them, in the last notification. For instance, the relaxations to allow more employees in government and private offices, or operating non-essential shops in a staggered manner even in red zones, were not implemented in cities like Mumbai, Thane, Pune and Nashik. The state can now go ahead with the opening of few more shops and increasing attendance in offices,” said a senior government official.The state, in the past two days, allowed manufacturers of umbrella, raincoats and plastic sheets to operate their units and retailers to sell them by putting them in the list of essential services. Similarly, the government has allowed employees of regional transport offices and sub-registrars to be at their workplaces, so at to ensure registration of vehicles and flats. “The notification issued on Sunday by the Centre will help us restructure containment zones by shrinking them. Commercial and other activities outside containment zones would thus be allowed. This is a very important step towards reviving the economy. At the same time, lockdown restrictions in containment zones will have to be followed strictly,” said public works department minister and former chief minister Ashok Chavan. He said that the nod for public transport between states may come as a respite for migrant workers, who have been risking their lives to reach their home states.The state saw 10,682 cases in just seven days, while the deaths reported in this period were 366. Of them, in Mumbai, 6,441 cases and 226 deaths were during the past week. The month of May saw 21,616 cases and 739 deaths in Maharashtra, which included 13,119 cases and 444 deaths in Mumbai. This means 31.76% cases and 38.31% deaths in the state have come in the past 17 days. The first case of Covid-19 in the state was on March 9. After having crossed 25,000 cases on May 13, the next 5,000 in the state were reported in just three days. On May 9, the state tally had touched 20,220. The state took 53 days for its first 10,000 cases.The number of tests in the state touched 2,73,239 on Sunday. 24,0186 of them were negative, which means 20.48% tested positive.Maharashtra’s mortality rate has dropped to 3.70% against national rate of 3.16%, while the doubling rate in Maharashtra is little more than 10 days.A total of 3,48,508 people are currently under home quarantine, while 17,638 are under institutional quarantine. 14,972 teams of health workers have screened 63.83 lakh people for suspected infection, after they came in contact with patients. 7,688 patients, including 600 on Sunday, have fully recovered from various hospitals, after testing positive in the past nine weeks.The state has 1,688 containment zones. In Mumbai, the municipal corporation has broken the zones into smaller ones for better monitoring.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that owing to the change in discharge policy by the Centre, the recovery rate among the patients in the state has improved. “Of the 7,688 patients who have been discharged after recovery so far, 50% or 3,700 are in the past one week,” he said. Chief secretary Ajoy Mehta, who issued orders on Sunday afternoon, using powers conferred under the Disaster Management Act, also had a meeting with the Union cabinet secretary late on Sunday. The state has also clarified that guidelines on relaxations in the ongoing lockdown will be issued in due course.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had hinted at the extension of the lockdown and had also demanded that the Centre allows operations of suburban trains in Mumbai, but only for essential services. The Central notification is, however, silent on the demand. “Activities in green zones will be fully permitted by keeping district boundaries sealed. It will be applicable to orange zones, excluding containment zones” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-over-2-000-cases-in-a-day-tally-33-053/story-lZskYMmNYWAcFfDzNwsFaO.html
18-05-2020||Mumbai||Medical students in Mumbai finally get stipend, but lose 10% to I-T||Four days after HT had reported that medical students in the civic-run hospitals had not received their stipend for almost three months, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation on Sunday finally disbursed their remuneration. However, 10% of the total remuneration received by the students has been deducted under income tax (I-T) owing to the new vendor registration policy. As per the new rule, medical students, including interns, resident doctors and senior medical officers, are considered vendors, undergo vendor registration and are therefore, are liable for 10% tax deduction. The taxation policy has only been introduced for medical students working at BMC hospitals and not other government hospitals. Students from King Edward Memorial (KEM), BYL Nair and Topiwala General Municipal hospitals have also written to BMC over the issue and have raised concerns about the deduction of money without a prior intimation.Dr Ramesh Bharmal, BMC’s director of medical education, justified the tax deductions. “These doctors are being paid by BMC and so they will have to pay taxes like other Indians. They may be students but they are also taking money from the corporation, making them employees,” he said. Doctors, however, said that medical students cannot be made to pay taxes as they are still pursuing their studies and paying fees to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). “In other states, students are given additional allowances for working on Covid duty. Senior doctors who just come on rounds are getting Covid allowances. But here, money is being deducted from our stipend,” said a resident doctor from Nair Hospital.Medical students on graduating are stationed at civic hospitals as interns, and paid ₹6,000 in BMC medical colleges. During their post-graduation, students are paid ₹54,000 per month, post which during their bond posting, they get a monthly stipend of ₹82,000. “We pay our fees to the medical institutions as students. In fact, the services that we provide to patients in hospitals fall are being practiced as a part of our curriculum. We are assigned marks for it. We are not registered BMC employees to be qualified for taxes. If the government wants to take taxes, they shouldn’t ask us to pay fees,” said another student from KEM Hospital.Students also alleged that the step is extremely discouraging for those who are working round the clock to treat Covid patients at a time when their exams have also been delayed. Most final-year students fear that their plans for further studies will be affected owing to the delay in the exams due to the coronavirus outbreak.“When the outbreak started, our colleges suspended classes and assigned us on Covid duties. Many doctors are as young as 18 years and directly face the threat of virus. Shouldn’t the authorities appreciate us instead of treating us mere vendors?” said a student who has been stationed at Sion Hospital’s Covid ward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/medical-students-in-mumbai-finally-get-stipend-but-lose-10-to-i-t/story-UeadjFc8JFs6RWmWH0VUyI.html
18-05-2020||City||Punjabi University fails to pay pensioners for April||Punjabi University has failed to pay pension for April to its superannuated teaching and non-teaching employees, with the authorities citing shortage of funds. Around 2,000 persons have been affected. “Our pension payment that comes out to be around Rs 4.5 crore a month has not been released on the pretext of shortage of funds, whereas salary to the tune of Rs 24 crore of regular staff, including the registrar and the finance officer (the custodian of accounts of university) has been made on May 12, which a great injustice to senior class citizens,” said Sham Singh, president, Punjabi University Retired Officers Welfare Association. Punjabi University Retired Teachers association president Gurmel Singh said the varsity had been repeatedly not following the orders of the Supreme Court and the high court on timely payments of pensions to the employees. “The HC has maintained that the pensioners are to be paid between the 7th and the 10th of each month. On not doing this, the university has to pay 10% interest,” Singh claimed. Varsity registrar Prof Manjit Singh Nijjar said, “The university is making every possible effort to arrange funds. We have written to the state government to provide our pending annual grant.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjabi-university-fails-to-pay-pensioners-for-april/story-DoikUlyWQeBIXpkeWDDRWL.html
18-05-2020||City||Ludhiana NGO preparing rotis for stray dogs amid lockdown||As the district administration and various non-governmental organisations (NGOs) came forward to provide food for the needy amid the pandemic-induced lockdown, Sai Dham on Humbran Road has set an example by preparing rotis for stray animals.For past 55 days Sai Dham has been preparing 3,000 rotis daily to feed stray dogs that were not getting food as eateries were closed down. The trust has also been preparing up to 20,000 rotis daily to feed the needy and front-line workers.The municipal corporation (MC) and various other NGOs have joined hands with Sai Dham.Sanjay Sood, president of Om Shri Sai Sewa Trust, said an automatic roti maker had been installed in kitchen of the trust.“Apart from rotis, we are cooking dal and rice. A total of 400kg flour, 100kg rice and 50kg dal are being consumed daily,” said Sood.“Various NGOs and police personnel collect food from the kitchen for distribution. Animal lovers and MC employees collect rotis to feed the dogs. They feed rotis to dogs with milk and curd,” he added.Sunil Arora, manager of Sai Dham, said, “Stray dogs were dependent on eateries for food. Stray animals used to feed on leftovers. As the eateries have closed due to the lockdown, the animals are not getting food.”“The animals cannot express their problems, but we understand what they are going through,” said Arora.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-ngo-preparing-rotis-for-stray-dogs-amid-lockdown/story-dLfk8dSKA9vcSRZ5aOkzGN.html
18-05-2020||City||Cheeta-led gang transferred Rs 6-crore drug money to Hizbul Mujahideen: Police||The interrogation of Ranjit Singh Rana, alias Cheeta — the kingpin in the 532-kg heroin seizure case — and his aides by the police has revealed that they had transferred Rs 6-crore drug money to the terror outfit Hizbul Mujahideen during the past five years. Officials privy to investigations said Cheeta and his accomplices had been in direct link with Pakistan’s spy agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) for the smuggling of heroin from across the border, and for transferring the drug money to the terror outfit. They said the gang members had cleared five drug consignments through Attari-Wagah border before the seizure of 532-kg heroin. The officials said the police have also identified around 10 more members of the gang which will be nabbed soon. Some of them are from Tarn Taran, Ferozepur and Jalandhar districts, they added. In June 2019, the officials of the customs department had recovered 532-kg heroin and 52-kg mixed narcotics, worth over Rs 2,700 crore, which were smuggled from across the border in a rock salt-laden truck, at the integrated check post (ICP), Attari, which facilitates India’s trade with Pakistan and Afghanistan. Following this, the customs officials had arrested some Amritsar-based importers and a Jammu and Kashmir-based man, whose interrogation revealed that Cheeta was the kingpin of the racket. Cheeta was arrested on May 9 by Punjab Police from Begi village in Haryana’s Sirsa district with his brother Gagandeep Singh, alias Bhola. Cheeta was nabbed following Amritsar commissionerate’s investigation into the case in which Hizbul terrorist Hilal Ahmed Wagay of Kashmir was held on April 25. Wagay had come to Amritsar in a truck to collect Rs 29 lakh from two unidentified men on the instructions of the terror outfit’s slain commander Riyaz Ahmed Naikoo. After Wagay’s arrest with Rs 29 lakh, a team led by Amritsar deputy commissioner of police (DCP-investigation) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar was formed to investigate the case. The team’s investigation also helped Jammu & Kashmir police, which killed Naikoo in a joint operation with the army, the officials said. Later on, the team arrested Bikram Singh, alias Vicky, and Maninder Singh, alias Money, of Amritsar. Vicky and Money confessed that they had given Rs 29 lakh to Wagay on the instructions of Cheeta and his cousins Iqbal Singh, alias Shera, and Sarwan Singh of Havelian village. Later, two more members of the gang — Jaswant Singh and Ranjit Singh of Gurdaspur — were also arrested. The duo’s interrogation led to Cheeta’s arrest, the officials said. ‘MADE PAYMENTS TO ISI TOO’“Cheeta’s cousin Iqbal Singh had been in direct link with ISI through various social media applications. The gang had been getting the heroin supply directly from the ISI. Cheeta has told us that they had been paying Rs 8 to 10 lakh per kg to the ISI, through various transaction methods, including hawala, through Dubai,” said one of the investigators, seeking anonymity.He said, “Sometimes, the gang meenbers used to transfer the money to Hizbul operatives on the ISI’s instructions. Cheeta has confessed that they had transferred Rs 6 crore to the terror outfit in parts. Most of the time, Hizbul operatives collected the drug money from the smugglers under the guise of truck drivers.”He added, “Before the recovery of 532 kg heroin, Cheeta had got smuggled five consignments — of 150kg, 100kg, 75kg, 35kg and 3 kg — through the land border.”Another official said, “The earlier five consignments were further smuggled to various parts of Punjab and the adjoining states.” Meanwhile, DCP Bhullar said, “We are investigating as to where the accused had been supplying the heroin.”On Saturday, the commissionerate police had recovered 2 kg heroin at Cheeta’s instance at his Ram Tirath road house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cheeta-led-gang-transferred-rs-6-crore-drug-money-to-hizbul-mujahideen-police/story-9rtFhAO0wKIlzxmOE3F6gL.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||60 HP students brought back from Chandigarh amid lockdown||Sixty students returned home to Himachal Pradesh’s Kangra district from Chandigarh on Sunday amid the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown, officials said.After arriving in Kangra, the students were sent to their houses in HP roadways buses following health check-ups, the officials said.The students thanked chief minister Jai Ram Thakur for making arrangements to bring them back, they said.Many students from Himachal Pradesh move to Chandigarh for taking coaching classes for various entrance examinations. They stay in rented rooms and hostels.Meanwhile, the government has prepared an action plan to bring back students and other people of the state who are stranded in other parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/60-hp-students-brought-back-from-chandigarh-amid-lockdown/story-QEIeX4Tytw32aDY1xIzWTI.html
18-05-2020||City||Migrants’ walk of pain meets document hurdle at Gujarat-Maharashtra border||Amid the lockdown, the Maharashtra-Gujarat border check-post at Talasari in Maharashtra’s Palghar district is bustling with cars, trucks and buses, with motorists running from one counter to the other with necessary documents to cross over to the neighbouring state. Lost among the sea of vehicles are the labourers – most of whom have walked all night to avoid the heat or those who have hitch-hiked their way to the border with the help of truck and bus drivers. Their trek comes to a halt, but the struggle continues, as the police claim a majority of them carry medical certificates, but not a police permission letter, forcing some to wait for as long as four days to cross the border.“We requested truck drivers to drop us till wherever they could. After 12 hours and changing two trucks, one driver dropped us at the Talasari checkpost. We’ve been sitting in this scorching heat since 10am because we can’t afford a vehicle to cross the border,” says Raju Gajjar, a labourer from Dhandhuka city of Gujarat, who has been working in Thane for the past few years.The police document required to cross the border states those interested in crossing borders should share details of a vehicle and the driver of the vehicle only “in case” they choose such a mode of transport. Labourers, however, allege the police don’t accept their forms without a vehicle and at least 35-40 people have been waiting at the Maharashtra side for the past two days.The Thane police commissionerate, however, says there’s no rule that demands labourers to travel by a vehicle only. “The guidelines prescribed by the Central government clearly state that migrants who want to cross the state borders without vehicles should be facilitated by the state concerned, who should be making arrangements of shelter and food for free. We are following the written guidelines,” said Balasaheb B Patil, deputy commissioner of police, Thane.“We have no work in the city anymore so some of us from the same village decided to go back home together. Neither the local Thane police nor the police at the checkpost are helping us,” says Gajjar, who is accompanied by 13 people, including two kids.In some cases, the workers pool in money to hire a large van or a mini bus. However, such an exercise costs them anywhere between ₹35,000-₹40,000, says one of the labourers. “If we could afford that kind of money, we’d still live in the city. The reason we all want to go back home is because we have no money for food and survival,” says Gajjar.A little away is another group of 15-odd labourers, who work in Mumbai and Thane as help or daily wage workers. Their problem is the same. “The queue to get a seat in any of the government buses is long and hiring a private vehicle is out of question. As we only need to cross one state border, we decided to walk, but the border police is not helping us,” says Manju Kumbhar, who hails from Patan, Gujarat. “We tried approaching the police station, but they ask for details of the vehicle and driver. We told them we will hitch-hike, to which they refuse to accept our application forms,” says Jignesh Dholakia, another youth stuck on the border on his way to Ahmedabad. “We are trying to cross just one state border. We can’t imagine how much trouble others who are travelling to Rajasthan or Uttar Pradesh and Bihar are facing.”Two Chennai residents, who work as drivers in Rajasthan, too, had to wait for a while. “After waiting in queue for a day at a doctor’s clinic, we had to wait for four days to get the seal of approval from the local police station. The queues are never ending at every police station,” says PU Sivanandakumar, one of the drivers who was crossing borders from Bhilad in Valsad (Gujarat) to Talasari. “We still have a long way to go and hope the process is smooth at the other border.”Amid the chaos, there’s some respite from the Talasari tehsildar’s office, whose staff members provide food and water to the stranded. “We find at least 50-70 people waiting, some for almost a week, while others have gone back to Mumbai and Thane. When the state borders first opened, the labourers would be stuck and waiting here in thousands, but the number has reduced over days,” said an officer from the Talasari tehsildar’s office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrants-walk-of-pain-meets-document-hurdle-at-gujarat-maharashtra-border/story-B9jcPb57FPTsXT9PVwzy0I.html
18-05-2020||City||Girders installed for new foot overbridge at Dombivli station||The Central Railway carried out the work of launching the girder for a foot overbridge at Dombivli railway station on Sunday. “Eight girders were installed for the reconstruction of a new foot overbridge at Dombivli railway station on Sunday. The old foot overbridge towards the Kalyan side was dismantled and is being rebuilt. Almost 50% of the work is completed. The FOB is likely to be completed in 20 days,” said a CR official. The girders were installed from 11am to 3pm, said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/girders-installed-for-new-foot-overbridge-at-dombivli-station/story-s8lwgja5Hx8TPavtPE0o1J.html
18-05-2020||Gurugram||Three men booked for killing brother-in-law in Jharsa||Three men were booked for allegedly killing their 42-year-old brother-in-law in their house in Jharsa on Friday night. The victim’s family had alleged that the three brothers had poisoned him to death.The police said the victim, Sombir Ram, had gone to his in-laws’ house in Jharsa on Friday to reconcile with his wife, who had come to live with her parents after an altercation with him in April. According to the police, the incident took place around 8.30 pm when the Ram was discussing the matters with his wives’ brothers. The police said his uncle, Khajan Singh, who filed the police complaint in the matter, alleged that Sombir had been poisoned by the three brothers. The police is yet to make any arrests in the case.In the police complaint, Singh said at 7.45 pm, Sombir had made two phone calls to his cousins and said the three suspects were going to poison him. “In a video call with a cousin, Sombir was lying unconscious and the suspects said he had passed out after drinking some liquor. A few minutes later, one of the suspects told us over the phone that he had died,” said Singh in the FIR. Singh further said that previously on April 17, Sombir had gone to Jharsa to settle differences with his wife, but was assaulted with sticks by his three brothers-in-law and their friends and had to undergo treatment for a head injury. Police said Sombir was rushed to a private hospital in Sector 38 where he was declared dead on arrival. Lal Singh, in-charge police post, Jharsa, said, “The autopsy is yet to be conducted and the cause of death is yet to be ascertained. A poisonous substance was recovered from the spot. Based on the statement of the victim’s family, a case has been registered against the three brothers. No persons have been arrested so far.”A case was registered against the suspects under sections 302 (murder), 328 (causing hurt by means of poison) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of Indian Penal Code at Sadar police station on Saturday, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/three-men-booked-for-killing-brother-in-law-in-jharsa/story-fCWnYi71RkRrzdIvi7xx9M.html
18-05-2020||Gurugram||Faulty FASTags will lead to double toll at Kherki-Daula plaza||The ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) on Friday stated that a vehicle without a FASTag or with a damaged one will be charged double the normal toll amount as a penalty at the Kherki-Daula toll plaza. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI)also started charging commuters with faulty FASTags from May 15—the day the notification came out.The gazette notification read, “Provided further that user of the vehicle not fitted with FASTag or vehicle without valid, functional FASTag entering into FASTag lane of the Fee plazas shall pay a fee equivalent to two times of the fee applicable to that category of vehicles (sic)”.NHAI officials said that they are targeting commuters who do not have FASTags but often enter FASTag lanes and end up paying double the toll as a penalty.Ashok Sharma, project director, NHAI Gurugram said, “We have started implementing the notification to charge double penalty from commuters with an invalid tag or inadequate balance and entering FASTag lanes as per the gazette notification. We are also targeting those who still use cash lanes and have not obtained FASTags yet, persuading them to obtain the same at the earliest.”Officials of the Delhi-Gurgaon expressway concessionaire Millennium City Expressway Private Limited (MCEPL) said, on an average, NHAI collects ₹2 lakh in penalty daily at the Kherki Daula toll plaza.NHAI has directed the toll officials to collect double the normal toll charges if any commuter is found entering a FASTag lane without a tag or with a faulty tag.Anish John, systems manager, MCEPL, said, “We are collecting a double penalty since December when the FASTag system was started at the Kherki-Daula toll plaza. This time MoRTH has made it mandatory for the toll officials to collect double the penalty from even those who have a FASTag, but a faulty one.”Every time commuters cross a FASTag lane without a valid or non-functional tag, they have to pay double the toll amount of ₹130 at the Kherki Daula toll plaza. This eventually wastes a lot of time for the drivers of vehicles standing in the queue and increases their waiting time.Rajendra Bhati, project head, Kherki Daula toll plaza, said, “If a commuter’s FASTag account falls short of the required toll charges, they will be blacklisted. Such people will have to pay a penalty.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/faulty-fastags-will-lead-to-double-toll-at-kherki-daula-plaza/story-Ek1xGq1SoiisIyw906IrtO.html
18-05-2020||Gurugram||28-year-old man kills himself in his car||A 28-year-old man allegedly suffocated himself to death in his car in Sector 29 area on Sunday morning. A police officer privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said that the preliminary probe had revealed that around 9 am, the man had sent an email to his cousin brother stating that he was ending his life in his car.The police said the man was from Alwar and lived in Sector 51. They added that he used to work in an IT company and had left that job at least four months ago.In his statement to the police, the man’s cousin said, “My cousin was under stress for some time and was undergoing therapy from a psychologist. He had been restless and had not been talking much with the family members lately. Today around 1pm, I checked my email and saw that my cousin brother had sent me an email to me at 9am. In the email, he said he was in Sector 29 and was going to end his life by suffocating himself in his car.”The police said the cousin and two members of his family rushed to sector 29 and found the man sitting unconscious on the rear seat of the car which was locked from inside. They broke the windowpane of the co-driver’s seat to take out the body.“The man was rushed to a private hospital in Sushant Lok 1 where doctors declared him dead on arrival,” said the police officer.The police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the code of criminal procedure (CrPC). The autopsy of the body is yet to be conducted.Gurugram does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 from ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 from Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/28-year-old-man-kills-himself-in-his-car/story-4OPkbE0dkfZVvT8KfQhRtJ.html
18-05-2020||Gurugram||200 ATM thefts: Gang leader’s close aid arrested after another shoot-out||A day after police arrested a 40-year-old wanted man, his close aide was also arrested in another shoot-out near Ghasera village in Nuh Saturday night, police said. The two suspects and their gang were involved in more than 200 incidents of ATM thefts, they added.The suspect arrested on Saturday was identified as Shoukat by the police. The suspect is wanted in eight states and the Haryana and Uttar Pradesh police had announced a reward of ₹50,000 on his arrest.According to the police, Shoukat is from Shikarpur village in Tauru tehsil. They said his gang had allegedly looted more than ₹14 crore in the last 10 years. The gang members used to uproot ATMs from kiosks and loot the cash, the police added.Narender Bijarnia, superintendent of police (SP), Nuh, said the police received a tip about the suspect’s movement — that he would be going towards Ghasera village to meet his some of his associates. “The investigation unit, led by inspector Vipin Kumar, laid a trap and intercepted the motorcycle the suspect was riding. Shoukat opened fire on the police team following which our personnel retaliated, and a bullet hit his right leg,” he said.The suspect was rushed to the civil hospital in Nuh, police said adding that two country-made pistols and two live cartridges were recovered from his possession.“We had arrested the leader of the gang, identified as Farookh on Friday late night in a shoot-out, but his close aide Shoukat had managed to flee from the spot. He had fled to Tauru and was on his way to meet other gang members when we received a tip on his movement and the police team surrounded him,” Bijarnia said.Shoukat was wanted in eight states and was declared a proclaimed offender in 2017 by Nuh, Gurugram, and Uttar Pradesh Police.“Earlier when police used to conduct raids in his village, the villagers would pelt stones on the police teams and have assaulted many police personnel of Gujarat, Nuh, Gurugram, and Uttar Pradesh Police. Shoukat used to hide in his village at a relative’s house, and was not arrested for the last three years,” the SP said.Police officers said the suspect was involved in more than 200 incidents wherein he along with his associates uprooted ATMs in at least eight states across the country. Bijarnia, said the suspect would get unemployed youngsters in Nuh to join the gang and rope them in for ATM thefts and robberies. Shaukat had travelled with Farookh to Gujarat, Orissa, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, and Maharashtra to conduct ATM thefts, the police said.According to the police, the suspect was involved in cow smuggling cases before and was arrested at least seven times. After police had started arresting the people involved in smuggling cases, he gave smuggling cows and joined Farookh. He would drive to other states with his gang and steal other vehicles that were used to return to Nuh with the looted cash.The Nuh police have registered 197 cases in the last two months and have arrested as many as 155 suspects. The police said they arrested 21 most-wanted criminals, 61 proclaimed offenders, and 40 bail-jumper. Over 1,037 vehicles were impounded by the police in the same period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/200-atm-thefts-gang-leader-s-close-aid-arrested-after-another-shoot-out/story-SZ0tYfFQoHbzHnOdiEWw1L.html
18-05-2020||City||Ludhiana teen stabs woman after rape bid||A 17-year-old boy was arrested on Sunday for stabbing a woman with a sharp-edged weapon after she foiled his rape attempt. The victim has been admitted to the hospital in a critical condition.Sub inspector Satibir Singh, SHO at division number 7 police station, said the accused lived near the woman’s paying guest (PG) accommodation in Sector 32 on Chandigarh Road and was stalking her from the past few days.The victim, 27, told police that she lived on third floor of the PG. She said the accused barged in the room from the window of the washroom by scaling walls on Saturday and attempted to rape her. She said when she resisted and raised an alarm, the accused stabbed her with a sharp-edged weapon and fled the spot leaving her injured.The woman said that on hearing her scream, other PG residents rescued her.The SHO said the accused stabbed the woman in her stomach and in her neck. He said police registered an attempt-to-murder case against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-teen-stabs-woman-after-rape-bid/story-FTvLQ6AcYzi2CdrM8DyqnK.html
18-05-2020||City||Corona positive patient raises concern about poor response by health officials||Gurugram: With over 18 hours having passed without any sign of medical help coming through, Vineet Kumar, a coronavirus (Covid-19) patient lodged at a Sector 9 quarantine centre, regretted his decision to come to the facility. Kumar, a resident of Ganga Vihar in Sector 12, had tested positive on May 15.“I got myself tested privately after a colleague had tested positive at work as I was worried about my family,” said Kumar, who works at the Punjab National Bank. He alleged that after getting the results, he tried calling all the government helplines and sought help from the Aarogya Setu application as well but received no response. On May 16, an ambulance arrived to take him to the quarantine centre, where he is currently sharing a room with five others at the facility.Kumar’s ordeal was shared by his brother-in-law, Ankit Bhardwaj, on a Twitter thread on Sunday listing all the steps taken by the family to get Kumar to a quarantine facility. He wrote that after receiving the results, the family reached out to government helplines for treatment and guidance and updated their status on Aarogya Setu application but received no response.“After over 50 calls and waiting for a whole day, finally one helpline responded,” he wrote. Bhardwaj’s tweet saw responses from Twitter handles of the district administration, which wrote that the issue has been raised with the nodal officer of the facility and that efforts were being made to resolve it on a priority basis.Kumar said that samples from the other members of his family were collected on Sunday.“I currently have no symptoms but seeing the state of the facility, I am worried that my health may worsen. I wish to complete the rest of the quarantine at home,” said the 30-year-old.After the matter was raised on the social media platform, the official handle of the Gurugram deputy commissioner of Gurugram, Amit Khatri, reached out and said: “Our officer got in touch with you with regards to this matter. Apart from making a note of the issues you raised we have also informed the nodal officer for the facilities and we will be resolving this issue on priority. You can be in touch with us over any issues that you face.”On Friday, the admin added five containment zones in the district, taking the tally to 37 with new additions to the Gurugram block.“The patient was totally asymptomatic and he was under our surveillance. We had done proper thermal screening. He has recently been shifted to ESI hospital,” said a senior health official, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/corona-positive-patient-raises-concern-about-poor-response-by-health-officials/story-mhxgWjKmGQDtAlrIfWu7cI.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||Two more cases in HP’s Hamirpur; state’s tally hits 80||Two more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Hamirpur district of Himachal Pradesh on Sunday, taking the state’s tally to 80.Both the cases have been reported from Nadaun sub-division of the district with travel history to Mumbai.One of the patients, hailing from Kardi village, is 35-year-old man who came along with five others, including his wife and brother in a taxi. He was put under home quarantine.The other patient is 60-year-old, who returned home on May 13 in a taxi. He was quarantined in an institutional facility. The driver of the taxi in which he travelled is also from Manpur village of Nadaun.The patients have been shifted to Radha Soami Charitable Hospital at Bhota, a dedicated Covid-care centre. There primary contacts are being traced.The villages they belong from have been declared a containment zone.33 ACTIVE CASESWith this, the active cases in the state have gone up to 33.Himachal Pradesh has witnessed a spurt in coronavirus cases since May 4, with 40 people testing positive.Two people have died due to the contagion during the corresponding period.Till date, the state has recorded a total of 80 cases, including three fatalities.So far, thirty-five people have recovered in the state.Kangra is the worst-hit district with 20 cases, followed by Una with 18 cases and Chamba with 12 cases.Ten cases have been reported in Hamirpur, nine in Solan, four each in Sirmaur and Bilaspur and two in Mandi and one in Shimla.Till date, 17,431 people have been tested for Covid-19 in the state. More than 21,000 are under active surveillance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-more-cases-in-hp-s-hamirpur-state-s-tally-hits-80/story-mBdohik2Tix8C6WwPyRrJP.html
18-05-2020||City||Industrial association of Sector 14 asks MCG to remove waste from vacant plot||Gurugram: The industrial association of industrial development colony (IDC) in Sector 14 has written a letter to the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Saturday, asking it to remove the waste dumped on a vacant plot located in the middle of the colony.The IDC is a small industrial colony of 113 plots in Sector 14, close to Maharana Pratap Chowk, near Management Development Institute. The colony houses several corporate offices of the top automobile brands, workshops, service centres, along with government offices of electricity department and the industries department.The Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) is responsible for the maintenance of this colony, including the upkeep of the vacant plots, parks, roads, etc. The MCG, on the other hand, is responsible for waste collection and its disposal to a designated spot on a daily basis.“We have been noticing for past many weeks that waste is being dumped after sunset at the site in question which is just behind our association’s office. The vacant plot belongs to the HSIIDC and it is earmarked for a parking. There was no waste at the plot before the lockdown. The site has currently huge dump of wastes and we want MCG to clean it up instant (sic),” stated the letter.The industry owners also want MCG to find out why the waste is lying unattended for weeks, especially when the city is going through a severe public health crisis.“Sorry to inform you that now-a-days nobody from MCG coming to pick waste, due to that a huge waste dump has emerged. This can cause threat of spread of Covid-19 disease also, as rainy season is also approaching we want the site, which causes foul smell in the air, should be cleaned and MCG should ensure no one dumps waste here in future (sic),” stated Dharam Sagar, president of the industrial association in the letter, adding that in order to contain the spread of the disease, the civic body should look into the matter seriously.Gaurav Antil, the MCG joint commissioner, said, “I have received the complaint from the concerned association. I have issued directions to the field official to get it cleaned up by Monday.”A senior HSIIDC official, on condition of anonymity, said, “We have written to the MCG in this regard as waste at the site in question is being dumped for many months. We will secure the plot soon by developing it as a parking site.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/industrial-association-of-sector-14-asks-mcg-to-remove-waste-from-vacant-plot/story-67LjfJShznsluPXhKxwWgI.html
18-05-2020||City||Sixth Covid-19 death in Faridabad; three new cases reported||Gurugram: A 45-year-old man, who was diagnosed with coronavirus (Covid-19) disease last week, died Saturday night in Faridabad while undergoing treatment. Officials said this is the sixth Covid-related fatality in Faridabad district. According to district officials, Faridabad saw three new cases of the Sars-Cov-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) being reported on Sunday, bringing the tally of positive cases in Faridabad district to 147. Officials said of the 147, so far 77 people have been treated and discharged so far and six have died due to the infection. The rest are undergoing treatment.Yashpal Yadav, deputy commissioner, Faridabad, said the patient who died today had comorbidities like diabetes and had been on ventilator support for a week at the ESIC Medical College and Hospital in Faridabad. He was a resident of Greater Faridabad.“Three fresh cases were detected in the district, one of which is a 36-year-old health care worker at the QRG hospital posted as a nursing supervisor. He lives in Barh Mohalla in Old Faridabad. He was suffering from fever for the past 10 days and stayed. He was immediately admitted to an isolation ward in the same hospital. We have identified his four close contacts and they have been placed under quarantine,” he said.The second case is of a 32-year-old bank employee of the State Bank of India’s (SBI) of Sector 14 branch, who lives in the same sector. He came in close contact with a man who had tested positive for the virus 12 days ago and had visited the bank’s branch. Officials said the bank employee was living alone. “We have tested his seven close contacts, out of which four have tested negative and three reports are awaited. The banker is totally asymptomatic and he is advised home isolation,” said Yadav.The district administration officials said the third case, a 38-year-old man, a resident of Devi Lal Dairy is yet to be traced.“The four cases had contracted the virus after coming in contact with a Covid-19 patient in Azadpur Sabji Mandi or those who had returned from Delhi with the infection,” he said.According to officials, the district has so far recorded 147 cases of coronavirus, of which 77 people have recovered. The administration on Saturday had increased the number of containment zones in the district from 14 to 26. The district administration added 12 new areas to the revised list of containment zones, while two zones in the district were de-notified after no Covid-19 cases were reported from these areas in the last 28 days.Yadav said the new method to monitor a radius of 500 metres from the epicentre of the infection is most effective and they are conducting screening, sampling, and testing of suspected cases in areas declared as containment zones. “We have also sent mobile vans to collect samples from residential areas and are collecting samples of all close contacts to ensure the virus is not spread and is under control. The suspects are placed under isolation and quarantine period of at least 14 days, and in many cases, for 28 days,” he said.The deputy commissioner further said, “We had sent the samples of 6,939 people, of which 147 had tested positive and the results of 590 are awaited. At least 60 people are currently hospitalised.”The infected people have been admitted to the ESIC hospital, officials said, adding that at least 7,431 people are under home quarantine in the district and 5,897 people are on surveillance for influenza-like illnesses.Meanwhile, the situation at the border will remain the same after the lockdown was extended until May 31, said the police.Faridabad Covid-19 fatalities so far:May 17: 45-year-old man dies due to Covid-19; he had diabetes and was on ventilator for past one weekMay 9: A 72-year-old woman, who tested positive on May 6, died in Faridabad while undergoing treatment for several other ailments. She had a “cardio-respiratory arrest”April 28: The first Covid-19 death in the district. A 68-year-old man died while undergoing treatment for hypertension, blood sugar-related diseases and severe respiratory issuesMay 4: A 55-year-old security guard who hailed from Bihar and had tested positive just a day before May 11: A 65-year-old resident of Sector 18 who died due to multiple ailmentsMay 15: A 17-year-old girl who was undergoing treatment for tuberculosis and also had stage two blood cancer; serious ailments complicated her treatment||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sixth-covid-19-death-in-faridabad-three-new-cases-reported/story-yVEYl4eWDD5qo5NpZXgfKJ.html
18-05-2020||City||11 new cases in Gurugram, district tally at 204||Gurugram The district on Sunday reported 11 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), including that of one health worker. This follows the 14 new cases detected on Saturday. The total number of lab-confirmed Covid-19 cases in Gurugram now stands at 204, of which 100 patients are currently hospitalised, while 104 patients have recovered, according to the district health department’s daily bulletin on Sunday.Among Sunday’s new positive cases, one is a health worker affiliated to a hospital in Sector 10A, while one case each in Khandsa, Sector 9A and Ravi Nagar is confirmed to have been in close contact with previously confirmed positive cases. However, the health department did not share the contact histories of the remaining seven cases, though it was revealed that one of them worked as a security guard at a prominent private company’s office in Sirhaul, Sector 18.As of Sunday, a total of 2.13% of the total number of samples tested in Gurugram have tested positive for Covid-19, up from just 1.10% on May 1. At the time, 5,736 samples from the district had been tested, of which 63 were positive. On Sunday, a total of 9,373 samples had been tested. While health department officials have regularly maintained that the surge in new cases is due to an increase in testing, the data shows that the uptick in new cases has not been accompanied by a significant jump in testing numbers. When taken as a moving, weekly aggregate, the number of tests being conducted from Gurugram has remained stable over the past four weeks (despite a fourfold increase in positive cases during the same time).For example, Gurugram tested 1,525 samples between April 17 and April 23. The following week (between April 24 and April 30), the number of new samples tested rose slightly, to 1,719. Then, between May 1 and May 7, the number of new samples tested fell, to 1,487, rising again to 1,787 new samples tested between May 8 and May 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/11-new-cases-in-gurugram-district-tally-at-204/story-6v5reF6z0ajW55pEHbQLUO.html
18-05-2020||Gurugram||District admin sets up Covid care centres for asymptomatic patients in Nuh||The district administration and health department of Nuh, on Sunday, designated four institutions as Covid care establishments for treatment of asymptomatic patients. This comes after five people in the region tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19). After a 31-year-old truck driver tested positive for the virus, four of his neighbours also tested positive on Sunday morning, said officials. With this, the total number of positive cases in the district has reached 65. After the five people were tested positive from Raniyala Patakpur village of Pingwan block, the district administration sealed all the entry and exit gates and deployed more than 50 police personnel at the spot.Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), Nuh, said the 31-year-old man who tested positive is a truck driver and had travelled to Bhiwadi. Due to the ongoing lockdown, he could not get regular work and he visited his relatives, friends and neighbour in search of work, from where he caught the infection. “Five of the cases, including the driver, are asymptomatic in nature and they have been shifted to Covid care setups in Nuh,” he said.“We along with the police and the district administration visited Raniyala Patakpur village and requested people not to hide their travel history and told the sarpanch to ensure that all close contacts of Covid-positive patients to remain under quarantine for 14 days,” CMO Yadav said.“We have also converted the Industrial Training Institute (ITI) buildings of Pingwan, Malabh and Indri as Covid care centres after all members of the Tablighi Jamaat were discharged. Aravalli school in Ferozepur Zirka was designated as the fourth Covid care centre in the district. Starting Sunday, we have decided to shift all the asymptomatic cases for treatment in these centres,” Vikram, deputy commissioner of Nuh.Three more institutions will be converted into Covid care centres at Salaheri, Ferozepur Namak and Palla engineering college in Nuh.Earlier the asymptomatic patients were placed under isolation in the hospitals but after the new guidelines by the ministry of home affairs(MHA), they will now be either home isolated or shifted to Covid care centres, said officials.These centres will accommodate at least 2,000 asymptomatic patients.Officials also said that samples of 197 people have been sent for testing and their results are awaited. They all are under quarantine and reports will come by Monday morning, said the CMO. A total of 65 cases have been recorded in the district so far.According to the CMO, at least 4,975 people have been put under surveillance to date, of which 84 people have returned from foreign countries and are presently in Nuh. They were traced inside different mosques in the villages of Nuh. “We had sent the samples of 4,057 people, of which 65 have tested positive and 3,795 have tested negative. Two people are currently hospitalised,” said Yadav adding that 58 people have been recovered so far in the district and there are seven active cases.Nuh, a district adjoining Gurugram, was once a hot spot zone after 45 Tablighi Jamaat attendees tested positive for the Covid-19 in the first week of April. Health officials say, after curtailing the wave of Jamaat attendees, their focus has been on drivers, who are undertaking interdistrict travel and their contacts to prevent the spread of the disease.“Since the beginning, we were following the strategy of screening and contact tracing. We did not leave anyone even if there were no symptoms and we ensured the people who returned from the Delhi Markaz of Tablighi Jamaat were also placed under quarantine and all the details of their close contacts, including family members, were noted,” said deputy commissioner Pankaj, who goes by his first name.The administration is keeping an eye on the movements of all people placed under surveillance and even those who have recovered. The areas from where the positive cases were reported have been declared as containment zones and no entry and exit are being allowed from those villages.The Nuh district administration in last week of April declared 45 villages as containment zones and 133 as buffer zones, thereby banning the entry and exit of people in these villages.After the Jamaat cases surfaced the district administration formed 289 teams consisting of health workers, police and administration. The teams conducted a detailed contact tracing of cases along with mapping all the Covid-19 epicentres and hot spots in the first week of April. Following this, teams conducted a house-to-house survey of all the villages.As part of a coordinated effort, police, district administration and health department worked in close coordination and a war room was set up in the deputy commissioner’s office in the secretariat. The health department also conducted house-to-house surveillance and covered around 2.75 lakh houses, screening 14.5 lakh persons in the district. To date, 289 teams consisting of three people and one supervisor have screened 14.5 lakh villagers. About 24 mobile medical teams have been pressed into service.“Through the survey, we identified 2,500 symptomatic patients, who were further monitored. We majorly focused on two things, keeping people with a travel history in self-quarantine and identifying those who have developed symptoms of Covid-19,” said Pankaj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/district-admin-sets-up-covid-care-centres-for-asymptomatic-patients-in-nuh/story-uJDkQdPIi2yevlng98l30H.html
18-05-2020||City||Pakistan’s first female Sikh journalist nominated for prestigious UK award||Pakistan’s first Sikh female journalist Manmeet Kaur has been nominated for a prestigious award in the UK, the media reported. Manmeet, 25, has been selected as one of the 100 most influential Sikh personalities under 30 years of age around the world by the UK-based “The Sikh Group”, The Express Tribune reported on Saturday.The Sikh Group is a global organisation which awards people belonging to the community from different parts of the world who serve the people in different ways.Manmeet, who is a resident of Peshawar and also a social activist, had also received awards at the local level for highlighting issues faced by minorities and women. She will receive her award next year at a ceremony in Britain.Speaking to The Express Tribune, she expressed happiness that her name was included in the category of influential Sikh personalities around the world. “Those who work hard will reap the rewards and it is a great honour for my family to visit the UK and represent Pakistan,” she added.Recognition is given to the special contributions made by Sikhs in the fields of business, sport, charity, media, entertainment, education, selfless voluntary service, lifetime achievement and the special recognition award, which is given to someone from another faith promoting multiculturalism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pakistan-s-first-female-sikh-journalist-nominated-for-prestigious-uk-award/story-7mFcsbHCHTOBUi9eJ6dghN.html
18-05-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 fallout: Caught at Ghazipur, home is a step too far||“I want to go back home. My husband has died there, and I need to see him one last time.” An inconsolable Sunita was at Delhi’s border with Uttar Pradesh in Ghazipur in the hope of boarding a bus back home to Sasaram city in Bihar. But the borders were shut, and there were no buses to be found. Sunita had come to visit her sister in the national Capital before the nationwide lockdown came into effect. “Someone please help me get home,” she said, sobbing.Hundreds of migrants had gathered at the Ghazipur border on Sunday, leading to shouting, chaos and cries as the UP police made sure that no migrant entered Ghaziabad. The nationwide lockdown put in place to curb the spread of Covid-19 was extended till May 31 on Sunday, which was the last day of the third phase of the restrictions. The UP government had asked the police and administration to ensure no migrant worker travelled on foot or in vehicles, after 24 people were killed in UP’s Auraiya district when the truck they were travelling on met with an accident on Saturday morning. As a result, no buses were forthcoming, nor were they allowed to cross over on foot. This resulted in lot of chaos as the migrants tried to enter Ghaziabad with the police pushing them back. A majority of the migrants were from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Among them was Sushila Devi’s family. Her four sons had managed to cross the border on Saturday night, while she, her husband, a daughter-in-law, and two grandchildren had been left behind. “We started to walk from Narela on Saturday afternoon after someone told us we can get buses to Sitapur in UP, from the Ghazipur border. My sons got to the border before we did, and managed to cross. However, the police stopped us when we tried to join them. Now they are stuck just two kilometres away. They were carrying all the money we had. We are left with nothing here. We have been requesting the police to help them get back to Delhi. We are ready to stay wherever we are told. We just want to be together,” she said. When they weren’t allowed to enter Ghaziabad, angry migrants blocked the Ghazipur main road in the evening for around 20 minutes. Nitish Tripathi, who worked in a garment factory in the area, was among those who had blocked the arterial road. He said he and his brothers wanted to walk home to Hardoi in Uttar Pradesh. “We have had no work for the last two months, and have run out of money now. Yesterday, we sold a TV and a table we had in our room to arrange money for the travel. But they are not letting us go home, and asking us to shift to a shelter. Our mother is unwell, and she needs us. We want to go home,” Tripathi said.Jasmeet Singh, deputy commissioner of police (east), said the migrants had blocked the road after being provoked by “some political leaders” who had gathered many of them at the border with assurances that they would be sent to their hometowns. “There were attempts by some migrants and party leaders to block the Ghazipur Road, but we have to convince them to leave. They are now on the side of the road, which is now clear,” Singh said. He said DTC buses would be arranged to send them to their homes in Delhi. Officers of the Ghaziabad police said they could not let migrants enter as they were on foot, and had orders to that effect. Only those with valid train tickets were to be allowed entry.Police said nearly 500 migrants had also gathered at the border on Saturday evening. Sitting under a flyover near the Ghazipur border, Rajesh Kumar Kohli was among six who arrived in Delhi from Kolkata aboard a special train. “We walked from the New Delhi Railway Station to ISBT bus stand to board a bus for Aligarh. At ISBT, someone told us that buses are only available from the borders, so we started walking to Ghazipur last night. We walked for five hours but the police said there were no buses here either. We do not know what to do. I am left with Rs 100 now,” he said.Meanwhile, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said the Delhi government will arrange trains for all migrant workers who want to return home. “We will take full care of the migrants, if they want to live here. In case they want to return to their homes, we will arrange trains for them. We won’t leave them alone in such a crisis,” he said in a tweet.Deputy chief minister of Delhi Manish Sisodia said more than 25 trains and a large number of buses have ferried over 35,000 migrant labourers to their home states from Delhi so far. “Today eight Shramik Special trains will carry around 12,000 migrant labourers to their homes states,” he tweeted. He added that it is mandatory to register to be able to board one of these trains. Meanwhile, the UP government has allowed the operation of Shramik Special trains from Ghaziabad and Noida, from where trains have been running since May 15.UP government officials on Sunday said 522 trains have arrived from other states, and another 87 were scheduled to arrive.“When these trains arrive, around 1.65 million migrant workers will arrive in UP. Around 150,000 arrived in the state on Saturday,” said Awanish Awasthi, additional chief secretary (home), Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/for-migrants-caught-at-ghazipur-border-home-is-a-step-too-far/story-0mMM1TnN4QuIUGo1XBfSNN.html
18-05-2020||Gurugram||GMDA, MCG infra projects hit by shortage of manpower||The progress of several civic projects of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) and Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has been impacted by a shortage of manpower, said officials on Sunday.The worst-affected projects include the Huda City Centre underpass, the multilevel parking at Sadar Bazar, flyovers at Shankar Chowk and Basai Chowk.Despite receiving the permission to resume work on April 21, these projects have either completely come to a standstill or are progressing at a snail’s pace due to the labour shortage.Last week, the MCG’s engineering wing had prepared a list of projects that have not been started within 15 days of allotment of the work order and had accordingly started levying fines on contractors for it. It was only then that officials discovered that many contractors were unable to start work due to a severe shortage of manpower.“In the projects that were allotted prior to the lockdown, all executive engineers have been directed to levy penalties on contractors. In the projects that were allotted since the lockdown, we have received many replies from contractors saying they are low on manpower as they are struggling to find daily wagers amid the coronavirus crisis. We are reviewing such replies on a case-to-case basis and are directing the contractors to submit an application asking for an extension of the deadline,” said Raman Sharma, chief engineer, MCG.At the Sadar Bazar multilevel parking, which was allotted prior to the enforcement of the national lockdown on March 25, excavation work has started. However, MCG officials privy to the matter said the work has not progressed since then.“The contractor has not been able to progress as he has not been able to find any manpower since then. Most of the workers at the site were migrant workers who have now returned home. It is likely to take another two weeks for the work to resume,” said an MCG official privy to the matter.Due to shortage in manpower, the work on the under-construction flyover at Basai Chowk is progressing at a very slow rate, said GMDA officials.“We have 15 to 20 daily wage earners at the site but we need at least 50 workers to put the work in full gear. There is a huge manpower shortage as most of our workers were migrants who have either left for their homes in other states and are waiting for their turn to be sent back by their respective state governments. In such a situation, we cannot expect our contractor to complete the project as per the schedule,” said a GMDA official familiar with the matter.GMDA’s underpass work at Huda City Centre is also progressing at a slow pace because of unavailability of daily wage workers, while the work at the Shankar Chowk flyover has not restarted at all due to acute shortage of manpower.“Migration of daily wage workers is happening at a big scale and most migrant workers have left for their respective home states. Their migration, along with the fear associated with the pandemic, has affected several ongoing projects. Work on the Basai Chowk flyover and the underpass at Huda City Centre will take time to resume in full gear until daily wage workers are available again. Manpower shortage will hence delay these projects,” said VS Kundu, chief executive officer (CEO), GMDA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gmda-mcg-infra-projects-hit-by-shortage-of-manpower/story-ooQmQAwxuAjSZJiDseAz5L.html
18-05-2020||Delhi||AAP says Centre responsible for plight of migrants, BJP hits back||The Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) on Sunday criticised the policies of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government holding it responsible for the plight of stranded migrants thousands of whom were walking hundreds of kilometres to reach their towns and villages as only limited inter-state transport is allowed in the wake of the nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19.“After 1947, maybe this is the first time when India is witnessing such a huge exodus of the poor migrant labourers. Lakhs of migrant labourers are leaving big cities and travelling thousands of kilometres to reach their home states. The recent situation has devastated their lives, ruined their livelihood and they are left with nothing,” said AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha in a press statement. He added, “The picture is the same across the country as lakhs of poor migrant labourers are trying to reach their home states. Every day they are facing atrocities, their rights are violated and the BJP is responsible for this situation.”“Today, the BJP government has sent luxury flights to bring back the rich people who were stuck abroad. The same treatment was given to various rich businessmen. It is good that they have done such things but it is unfortunate that the BJP has done nothing for these poor migrant labourers,” said Chadha.He further said, “These poor migrant labourers are the real makers of India. They leave their home states and travel to the metro cities to earn bread and butter. The kind of atrocities they are facing along with the negligence from the BJP government is unacceptable,” said Chadha, who is also the MLA from Rajendra Nagar.BJP MLA Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, also the leader of opposition in the Delhi assembly, hit back at the AAP’s allegations,.“The Centre’s decision to announce lockdown was critical to contain the spread of Covid-19, which even Delhi CM had welcomed. It is the state government’s responsibility to provide food and shelter to the migrant population. People want to move out of Delhi as the state government is unable to ensure proper distribution of ration to them. Their web portal where migrants could register was not working for a few days. The Centre has said it will provide trains. The government should say when their request for trains was denied by the Centre before levelling such allegations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-responsible-for-the-plight-of-migrant-workers-says-aap/story-JhhaKV0tIcGb1cFsB9FM0M.html
18-05-2020||City||Two men held for trying to ferry passengers to Jharkhand||Gurugram A bus driver and conductor were arrested at Sector 12A Chowk on Sunday for allegedly trying to ferry passengers to Jharkhand without permission amid the ongoing lockdown due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.According to the police, the arrested men were identified as Ravinder Singh, a bus driver, who is a native of Delhi and Dalbir Singh, a bus conductor from Mathura in Uttar Pradesh. They were nabbed after the police received a tip-off.In the police complaint, Manju, the head constable, said, “We received information that two men were looking for passengers to take them to Jharkhand and were waiting at Sector 12A Chowk with their bus. We immediately reached the spot and saw some people boarding the bus. When they saw us, the bus driver and conductor tried to run away but we caught them. However, the passengers successfully fled the spot. Both the men did not have a movement pass.”The police said that during the interrogation, the accused informed them that they allegedly wanted to make some extra money and decided to ferry passengers to Jharkhand.“There were around eight people who were trying to board the bus,” the head constable added.A case was registered against the accused under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 51B of the Disaster Management Act at Sector 14 police station on Sunday. On Friday late night, the police had arrested two men for allegedly trying to ferry migrant workers from the city to West Bengal in a canter without the requisite movement passes in Ashok Vihar Phase-3. The police had said the accused persons allegedly asked for ₹1.25 lakh from 53 migrant workers, which included women and children, to ferry them to Malda district in West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-men-held-for-trying-to-ferry-passengers-to-jharkhand/story-ZvSVm2SmOnqJNK1DsZynVI.html
18-05-2020||Gurugram||Status quo until Gurugram draws up rules for extended lockdown||The Haryana government is likely to come out with a fresh bunch for guidelines for lockdown 4.0 on Monday, post which the Gurugram district administration will release its own set of lockdown rules.Officials said that till the time the new rules are issued by the district, all the restrictions in place for lockdown 3.0 will continue to be in place.The Union home ministry on Sunday had extended the ongoing lockdown till May 31, while giving certain relaxations, to check the spread of Covid-19 pandemic.“Till fresh guidelines are issued by state government, there will be a status quo,” said a district administration spokesperson.Officials, however, said that with new relaxations, it is possible that business and economic activity will be able to resume operations in green and orange zones, while restrictions will remain in force in only the containment zones. Shops, HSVP markets, cabs and autos have been allowed to start operating while observing proper social distancing norms, under restricted timings. Shops selling non-essential commodities will be allowed to open twice a week in the city.Commercial establishments and industrial units have also been allowed to operate with 33 per cent work force in the Gurugram-Manesar industrial and urban complex. As per the district administration, 1,330 industrial and commercial establishments had been allowed to resume operations till May 11, in which over one lakh workers were employed.In another significant development, the Union ministry of home affairs has given powers to the state governments to decide upon the Red, Green and Orange zones as per the number of Covid-19 cases. Also the states have been allowed to decide on inter-state and intra-state movement of private vehicles and buses, based on mutual consent of two states. Restrictions, however, remain on air travel, operations of rail and metro trains as per the new directions. Educational institutions like schools, colleges and universities shall continue to remain closed till further orders. Public places like shopping malls, cinema halls, restaurants, hotels shall also remain closed. The government has also continued the ban on all religious gatherings and congregations.The restrictions imposed on movement of people from 7pm to 7 am shall continue to be in place, said the guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/status-quo-until-gurugram-draws-up-rules-for-extended-lockdown/story-s0rDrfR4nioezj6ANsbtSK.html
18-05-2020||Delhi||AIIMS OPD services to resume on May 20||After a hiatus of nearly two months, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) is planning to restart its out-patient clinics on Wednesday with restricted consultations, according to the hospital administration.The clinics were shut on March 24, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of the coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19). Before that, at least 10,000 patients visited the OPD clinics each day, with around 40% of the patients arriving from other parts of the country.The OPD services were stopped on March 24, just a few days after the second phase of the services were moved to a new, spacious block. Eight clinical departments, including pulmonary medicine, rheumatology, and radiology, were moved to the new Rajkumari Amrit Kaur OPD block in the Masjid Moth facility on April 16. The first phase of the services was moved to the new block earlier this year in February.“We are planning to restart the out-patient clinics sometime this week. The number of people who will be allowed in the clinics every day will be restricted to maintain social distancing. All the departments will open up the clinics in a phased manner, beginning this week,” Dr DK Sharma, the medical superintendent of the hospital, said.According to doctors of the hospital, the clinics are likely to resume services on Wednesday.The hospital has been contemplating restarting the services from April-end, however, taking care of Covid-19 patients is drawing on most of the hospital’s manpower and resources.With the hospital treating Covid-19 patients in its trauma centre on Ring Road and the cancer centre in Jhajjar, the main hospital has been handling emergency services, including the emergent and semi-emergent surgeries. Three operating theatres have been running round-the-clock in the hospital. The hospital has admitted at least 447 Covid-19 patients.The doctors are, however, providing teleconsultation to patients who registered with them at the beginning of April.Along with OPD, surgical services are also likely to be scaled up. “Several patients who come to our OPD need admission and surgeries, hence we need to open up these services too,” Dr Sharma said.AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria had earlier told HT that simple surgeries such as gall stone removal and hernia will be started in the first phase as they require fewer days of hospital admission and minimal use of ventilators.Earlier this month, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had asked Union health minister Harsh Vardhan to intervene to scale up non-Covid-19 services at the four Central government hospitals. He had requested the minister to covert one of the hospitals completely into a Covid centre and let the others resume normal services.“I request that the central government dedicate one of its hospitals in Delhi for the treatment of Covid-19 patients and the others for non-Covid treatment. There have been cases of patients being refused routine treatment. Also, AllMS has taken a good step and dedicated the trauma centre and the cancer centre in Jhajjar to the treatment of Covid-19 patients but all its other services have been stopped. I urge you to restart the other facilities for non-Covid patients,” Jain had said in the meeting held in the first week of May.While AIIMS had shut its OPD services completely, the other three central hospitals – Dr Ram Manohar Lohia, Safdarjung, and Lady Hardinge Medical College – had restricted their out-patient clinics and stopped routine surgeries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aiims-opd-clinics-to-open-with-restricted-access-from-wednesday/story-1tCR8BqHfq4ngkYINpgKrN.html
18-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi cases near 10,000 mark, 19 more deaths take Covid-19 toll to 148||Delhi recorded 422 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Sunday, taking the city’s tally to 9,755, according to the daily health bulletin released by the Delhi government. With almost 400 cases being recorded in the national capital each day for the past four days, the total number of infections is likely to cross the 10,000 mark on Monday.Nineteen more deaths were recorded in Delhi, taking the city’s toll of Covid-19 fatalities to 148. All these deaths did not, however, take place in the past 24 hours and were cleared from a backlog of probable cases by the Death Audit Committee.This is the second-highest number of deaths that have been recorded in a day since 20 deaths were recorded on May 13.“These deaths did not happen in the last 24 hours; the nineteen deaths for which summaries have come in have been recorded. It is difficult to get the reports the same day. It takes a couple of days to get the report. The backlog has almost been cleared, there will be additions like this once or twice more,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain in a media interaction on Sunday.“Many of the cases are coming from hospital, BSF, CISF. There have been many cases from the police department. There are many cases of health care workers also. Many patients admitted to the hospitals have also tested positive. Right now, most of the cases are coming from the existing containment zones, we will increase the containment zones as and when needed,” said Jain.This puts Delhi’s mortality rate at 1.5%, still among the lowest in the country.All designated Covid-19 hospitals – government and private -- have now been directed to submit their death reports each day by 5pm to prevent any backlog and erroneous reporting. A three-member death audit committee goes through the case sheets, patient records and investigations, and death summary to include the deaths in the toll every day at 5:30 pm. The step was taken after a discrepancy was detected in the number of cases recorded in the health bulletin and those reported by hospitals. Only the deaths where the “primary cause” is Covid-19 will be recorded in the bulletin.“A person may have tested positive for the infection, but if their chest X-Ray is clean, the arterial blood gas does not show any signs of acidosis, and their oxygen saturation is normal then clearly Covid-19 isn’t the cause of death,” said a senior official from Delhi’s health department, on condition of anonymity.The 9,755 cases have been recorded in less than three months since the first case was reported in the city on March 2. The first person to be infected by he disease in the city was a 45-year-old resident of east Delhi’s Mayur Vihar who had returned from Italy.So far, 95,656 cases have been recorded in the country, with Delhi accounting for 10% of the cases. The highest number of cases have been recorded in Maharashtra, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu, followed by Delhi.The first spike in cases of the highly infectious disease was reported in the city in early April after people who attended a congregation in the headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat, an Islamic missionary group, in Nizamuddin Basti started testing positive for the infection. As per Delhi government data, 1,080 of the over 2,300 people who were evacuated from the building tested positive for Covid-19.The highest number of cases recorded during this first spike was on April 13 when 356 cases had been recorded in a single day. Of these, 325 were in those evacuated from Nizamuddin, the data showed.The number of cases started shooting up this month, with Delhi breaching the highest single-day spike in numbers four times in May -- 427 cases were recorded on May 3, 428 on May 6, 448 on May 7, and 472 cases were recorded on Thursday, May 14. From just over 3,500 Covid-19 cases recorded till April-end, the numbers have shot up by over 6,000 cases being recorded in the city in just 15 days.Some of this is owing to laboratories across the city rushing to give Covid-19 reports with 24 hours of collecting the samples in compliance with orders by the Delhi government and the high court. Since mid-January when screening for Covid-19 began in the country, Delhi has tested 135,791 samples. There are 13 government and 15 private laboratories in the city performing the tests.Many district authorities also pointed out that hospitals were becoming hotspots for infections with several healthcare workers, their family members, and patients visiting hospitals also testing positive for the disease. So far, over 500 healthcare workers across the city have tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-set-to-cross-10-000-cases-on-monday-covid-19-death-toll-at-148/story-zerLlxRYNNzQYRw69ATJEI.html
18-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi Congress chief arrested for violating lockdown, visiting Ghazipur||The Delhi Police on Sunday arrested Delhi Congress president Anil Chaudhary for allegedly violating lockdown orders. He was later released on bail. According to the police, Chaudhary was asked to remain home and refrain from visiting the Ghazipur border in east Delhi, but he is alleged to have mobilised migrant workers and visited the spot.The deputy commissioner of police (east), Jasmeet Singh, said Chaudhary was booked under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code for violating the provisions of the lockdown.Chaudhary said he was at Ghazipur to help migrant workers with food and water. “If this is the crime that I am being booked for, then all the Congress workers and I will keep committing this crime,” he said.A senior police officer, who did not want to be named, said Chaudhary and his workers had visited Ghazipur on Saturday night, after which the gathering of migrant labourers swelled suddenly. Many of them had also hidden in trucks and tempos arriving at the Ghazipur vegetable market, according to the officer.“After a lot of efforts overnight, we managed to disperse the crowd and the situation was controlled. There were allegations that many migrant workers were being transported across Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border with the help of people with links to political parties. As a precautionary measure, we placed Chaudhary under preventive detention and asked him not to visit the area until the situation is completely under control,” the officer said.Chaudhary said that on Sunday morning, a team of police officials came to his house and detained him without any reason. “They kept asking me why I went to the Ghazipur border yesterday (Saturday). I was there with some Congress workers to try to help the migrant labourers there with food and water. We saw that one of the women there was pregnant and went into labour, and our workers took her to Dr Hedgewar Arogya Sansthan, which was nearby,” said Chaudhary.He said, “We have been working to help the migrant labourers for several weeks now. We have also converted our state unit office into a shelter facility for them.”The Delhi Congress lashed out at the police and the Central government for taking action against those helping the poor during the ongoing crisis. “This (helping the migrant labourers) is the job that the government should be doing. But they are not even allowing other people to help them. This is the time when the migrant workers need our help and support. Help from anywhere should be accepted and appreciated. Instead of doing that, you are sending the police after them,” said Abhishek Dutt, vice-president of the Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee.The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) national secretary, RP Singh, said that help from all quarters is welcome, but people have to follow the law. “If they want to help people, then they should. But they should take necessary permission from the subdivisional magistrate. There is no point blaming the Centre or the police, as law has been put in place to fight the contagious disease. Police officials are just following the law. The Congress is unnecessarily politicising the issue. The present rules in Delhi have the approval of the state government, which is not under the BJP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-congress-chief-arrested-for-violating-lockdown-visiting-ghazipur/story-LoAaJMTxDCBsFTXDmhr44J.html
18-05-2020||Delhi||Lockdown 4.0: Delhi can now define its own ‘red zones’||The Centre on Sunday allowed state governments to classify and demarcate their own red, orange and green zones --- areas specified as per their vulnerability and presence of Covid-19 cases, a key demand of the Delhi government since the entire city was under the ‘red zone’. Major relaxations that were announced by the Centre amid the nationwide lockdown were not applicable to the red zones, crippling Delhi’s efforts to jump start economic and business activity. The Union home ministry in its guidelines to states issued for the fourth version of the lockdown, which will stay in effect till May 31, has fixed broad rules for the states on which specific rules can be framed. The Delhi government will notify its relaxations and guidelines on Monday. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicA red zone is an area where there are more than 10 Sars-Cov-2 positive cases. A red zones can have one or many containment zones to limit the spread of the cases. As on Sunday, Delhi had 73 containment zones. On May 2, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had first raised the demand for the Centre to reconsider the demarcation of ‘red zones’, which, until Sunday, was being done on the basis of districts, across the country.“All the 11 districts of Delhi are in the red zone as per the Centre’s rule, meaning that the reported Covid-19 cases in each district is 10 or more. Because of this parameter, Delhi, being such a small city, will never be able to get out of the red zone. No economic activity will be able to restart because of this. This rule needs to change and should either be on the basis of containment zones or wards,” Kejriwal had said on May 2. Also Read: States to fix zones in lockdown 4.0On Sunday, the Centre gave states and Union Territories a free hand to designate areas into red, green and orange zones. “With red and orange zones, containment zones and buffer zones will be demarcated by the district authorities, after taking into consideration the guidelines issued by the minister of health and family welfare (MoHFW),” the order stated. Later, the MoFHW issued a letter to all states laying out the parameters for identifying such zones. “States may categorise districts/municipal corporations as red/orange/green zones. States may, however, also choose to categorise a sub-division/ward or any other appropriate administrative unit as red/orange/green zone after detailed analysis at their end, duly taking into consideration the geographical spread of cases, contacts and the zone of influence terms of disease spread,” read the letter written by Preeti Sudan, secretary, MoFW. Also Read: AIIMS OPD clinics to open with restricted access from WednesdayThe Delhi government, responding to the guidelines, said, “Broadly, the Centre’s guidelines are in the right direction of opening up the economy and leaving it to states to work out the details. We have always been saying that we all will now have to learn to live with corona. We used the last two-month lockdown period to prepare ourselves for dealing with corona by improving necessary logistics and health infra. We do expect a slight increase in cases when the economy reopens and Delhi is prepared to deal with it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/lockdown-4-0-delhi-can-now-define-its-own-red-zones/story-dbJiI8GWr2BbUB12DYKmlL.html
18-05-2020||Delhi||Restoring Delhi’s supply chain main concern of traders||Traders in Delhi have welcomed the Centre’s decision to allow markets to open in the fourth phase of the lockdown -- from May 17 to May 31 -- announced on Sunday, saying businesses hit by the restrictions will finally pick up in the Capital. The Union home ministry on Sunday announced the extension of the nationwide lockdown till May 31 and issued broad guidelines for the states on the relaxations that could be provided during the period. The Delhi government will issue a final list of relaxations, based on the Centre’s recommendations, on Monday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a tweet. “Delhi govt will prepare the detailed plan for Delhi based on the Centre’s guidelines and announce it tomorrow,” Kejriwal tweeted. Delhi govt will prepare the detailed plan for Delhi based on the Centre's guidelines and announce it tomorrow https://t.co/eBfrLKUpP9Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicWhile manufacturing units were allowed to operate in the city from May 3, production has not been at full scale due to the imbalance between demand and supply as markets remained shut, according to industrial associations. They say that only 25-40% of industries had resumed work.Last week, the Delhi government had suggested an odd-even scheme for markets in its proposal to the Centre on relaxations for the fourth phase of the lockdown. The Delhi government is likely to release its guidelines for markets on Monday.Brijesh Goyal, the convener of the Aam Aadmi Party’s trade wing and national convener of the Chamber of Trade and Industry, said, “The government is in the process of finalising the guidelines for markets, now that the Centre has given its go-ahead.”Malls are not likely to be permitted to open in Delhi till May 31, as the Centre did not agree to the Delhi government’s proposal of allowing 33% of the shops to open every day. However, the relaxations for stand-alone and neighbourhood shop will continue, a senior government official said.However, traders’ associations in Delhi are divided over the odd-even proposal and also on the issue of whether markets should open.Also Read: Economic package will have multiplier effect: Nirmala SitharamanPraveen Khandelwal, secretary-general, the Confederation of All India Traders, said the opening of markets will restore the demand and supply balance, but the odd-even formula won’t be effective because traders are dependent upon other traders for exchange and purchase of goods. In a press statement, he suggested staggered timings for shops.Members of the traders’ association in Chandni Chowk said a final decision will be taken tomorrow, but they would prefer to remain shut till May 31, due to the market’s proximity to a containment zone.Manufactures said that the opening of markets is essential for demand to pick up. Lack of demand, shortage of raw material, closure of wholesale markets, unavailability of transport and reduced labour availability have hampered production.Also Read: Centre’s relaxations set to awaken Delhi from its two-month slumberAshish Garg, secretary of Narela Industrial Complex Welfare association, said, “Opening our industrial units have no meaning when there is no demand. All businesses, including wholesale, small traders, small-scale industries etc, in the supply chain have to be up and running for economic activity to revive, as we all are inter-dependent.”The continuous migration of labour force to their home states has compounded the problem, say factory owners. “With the labour force, especially unskilled labour, leaving the city, it will become difficult to restart businesses. There is even a shortage of skilled labour and it is difficult to find replacements for them,” said Rakesh Sachdeva, the president of Naraina Industrial Area Phase 1 and 2.Rajesh Garg, the secretary of the Indian Council for Trade and Industries, who owns a factory in Narela, said the government needs to draft a long-term policy to revive businesses. “Coronavirus disease will not vanish in a month or two. The Centre and state governments should come up with a long-term policy,” said Rajesh Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/lockdown-4-0-delhi-traders-welcome-centre-s-decision-to-open-markets/story-PghBpDNDd9M3pEgtLt7cgM.html
18-05-2020||Delhi||Buses, autos and cabs likely to resume; Metro shut till May 31||The Centre on Sunday said that state governments may allow the operation of public buses, auto-rickshaws and private cabs during the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown till May 31. However Metro services will remain shut, as per the guidelines to the states issued by the Union home ministry on Sunday. The Delhi government will come up with an exhaustive list of what is allowed and what is not, based on the Centre’s guidelines, on Monday. As per the MHA guidelines, the states may also allow inter-state passenger vehicles and buses, provided the governments concerned agree upon it. This could help thousands of migrant workers, who were stuck in the national Capital despite trying to reach their home towns over the last few weeks, and those who have not been able to cross the borders.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“Inter-state movement of passenger vehicles and buses, with mutual consent of the state/UT (Union Territory) involved will be allowed. Intra-state movement of passenger vehicles and buses will also be permitted, as decided by the states and UT,” the order issued by the union ministry of home affairs read.Delhi’s transport minister Kailash Gahlot said that the Delhi government had, in its list of recommendations to the Centre, said that they were prepared to resume public transport services in the city, with safety precautions in place to protect against the Covid-19 infection.Also Read: Lockdown 4.0: Delhi can now define its own ‘red zones’“The Delhi government will issue orders in this regard on Monday. However, I have had a detailed meeting with the top government officials and transport infrastructure experts to discuss a standard operation procedure (SOP) for safe operations. We are completely ready to resume operations,” Gahlot said.The Delhi government is yet to issue an order detailing how the Centre’s guidelines will be implemented in the city.Officials of the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said that they will abide by the government directions.“In light of the extension of lockdown issued by the government, Metro services will remain closed for commuters till May 31. Our helpline service 155370 shall also not be available,” the DMRC said in a statement on Sunday. While the Centre issued these relaxations, it has also allowed state governments to impose stricter lockdown rules at their discretion. This means that the public buses will ply in the city, but with passenger restrictions, Delhi government officials said.Also Read: 550 districts in India have Covid-19 cases; many in rural areas“We are waiting for a final order from the state government, but buses are all set to be allowed to ply with not more than 20 passengers at a time. There will also be marshals deployed at the entry and exit of buses to ensure that there is no crowding inside the buses,” a senior DTC official said.The Delhi government, in its list of recommendations to the Centre on Friday, had also suggested passenger limitations in cabs and auto-rickshaws. In private cabs, including app-based cab aggregator services such as Ola and Uber, only two passengers besides the driver are allowed, and auto-rickshaw drivers were allowed to ply with only one passenger.Delhi’s cab driver associations, welcoming the possible relaxations, said the government must also ensure a mechanism to ensure passengers are not symptomatic. “There should be some mechanism like a health certificate that the passenger needs to show before he/she is allowed to board a cab. The health of the drivers is also at stake,” said Sanjay Samrat, Delhi Taxi Tourist Transporters’ Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/lockdown-4-0-buses-autos-and-cabs-likely-to-start-metro-to-stay-shut/story-juVA60U1JX3Dgh1ZL6bPzJ.html
18-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi to put out own lockdown 4.0 guidelines today: CM Kejriwal||The Delhi government will announce on Monday what citizens can and cannot do in the national capital, officials said on Sunday after the Union government significantly eased some of the curbs in force since March 25, when the country was put under a lockdown to stem the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The rules for the next phase of the lockdown announced by the centre are the minimum restrictions states and union territories must follow, although they are allowed to roll out stricter measures if they need to. The relaxation was precipitated by a sharp drop in earnings of businesses as well as individuals. “The Centre’s guidelines are largely in line with the proposal sent by the Delhi government, based on the suggestions of lakhs of Delhiites. We have used the lockdown period to prepare our healthcare system if corona cases increase, but it is now time to relax the restrictions to some extent,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a tweet, minutes after the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) issued the guidelines on Sunday. According to officials who asked not to be named, except for the 73 containment zones in the capital, there will be a significant increase in permitted activities in line with Centre’s guidelines. Some of these could include the return of buses, cabs, auto-rickshaws and lead to the reopening of markets, sports complexes, industries and offices. These were part of relaxations that Delhi suggested to the Union government in a letter written by the CM to the Prime Minister on Thursday. Some of the other recommendations by the Delhi government, such as resuming Delhi Metro services, reducing the night curfew to 9pm-5am and reopening some shops in shopping malls, were not part of the Union government guidelines – which means they cannot be implemented. Some of the other rules issued on Sunday, however, suggested more relaxations could be given in some other areas – such as allowing spas, salon or barber shops to reopen. “Details, such as how many passengers should be allowed in a bus, taxi, a private car or two-wheeler, how markets should operate and the number of people allowed to return to private offices, are being finalised. Since there are a lot of relaxations, the order by the Delhi government will have a lot of finer details to avoid any confusion,” said a senior government official, on the condition of anonymity. Delhi recommended that only 50% of staff be allowed to return to offices, while the guidelines issued by the Union home ministry made no mention of such a restriction. In the case of public transport, the Delhi government suggested single-passenger restriction for auto-rickshaws and cycle-rickshaws, and a limit of 20 passengers in buses. The official quoted above said this is likely to be included in Delhi’s rules. The capital’s administration will also take a call on whether e-commerce companies should be allowed to deliver non-essential items in areas outside of containment zones, a decision the Centre has left to states. So far, only essential items are allowed to be delivered by e-commerce companies such as Amazon and Flipkart. A second senior government official, who asked not to be named, said allowing markets to operate and relaxing the restrictions for industries and construction activities is going to help the state exchequer in increasing revenue generation. Due to the lockdown, Delhi government’s revenue collection for the month of April dropped by 90%. Against a projected generation of Rs 4,000 crore, Delhi earned only around Rs 400 crore. An official in the finance department said in the current scenario, the Delhi government will have no money to disburse salaries to its employees after July. “Not wearing a mask is likely to attract a strict fine. Besides, all employees also must wear masks, and downloading the Aarogya Setu mobile application will be emphasised upon,” the second government official added, detailing more rules that may be different from the Union government’s. The Delhi Development Authority, which runs a number of sports complexes (Siri Fort, Chilla Sports Complex, Yamuna Sports Complex, etc) in the city, said that a decision regarding opening sports complexes – which has been allowed by Centre -- will be taken based on activities allowed by the Delhi government. Experts said the relaxations will help people cope with the “vast sufferings” they have undergone. “There is definitely going to be a spike with the relaxations, but it will also ease a bit of the vast sufferings of the people, especially when there is no clear or major direct relief given by the Centre to the states and more so to a Union Territory like Delhi. We imposed the most stringent lockdown at a time when almost every other country went through a gradual lockdown. As a result, the economic crisis in India has reached a point where we are having to relax the lockdown when the number of infections is peaking,” said Jayati Ghosh, a professor of economics at Jawaharlal Nehru University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-to-issue-its-own-rules-for-lockdown-4-0-on-monday/story-XW8UCLd5E3lhcsjBSXDbGM.html
18-05-2020||Noida||Going back home is not an option for all migrants||Even as the district administration and state government are making arrangements for migrants to go back to their home states, not all of them are willing to uproot their lives, despite facing several troubles over the past two months.To tackle the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had first announced a nationwide lockdown on March 24, which, in its fourth phase, has now been extended till May 31. However, soon after the lockdown, the entire country witnessed large-scale migrant movement across the country. Following this, the state government made several travel arrangements for those willing to go back home, including special trains and roadways buses.Most migrants in the city are facing large-scale unemployment and are dependent on either the government or individual sources for essentials like food. However, there are a few migrants here who are not willing to go back home.“I am being paid twice my salary this month. I can use the additional money to send back home to Bihar. Had I left, who knows if I would have even found a job again when I returned,” Pramod Jha, a security guard at a high-rise in Sector 137, said.He said that the staff is staying in the society and though he has a 10-year-old son who is staying in Gejha village with relatives, the extra money is helping them—that would not have been possible had he gone back home.Some believe that with lockdown norms starting to be relaxed, unemployment will no longer be an issue.“I was ready to return to work when domestic help was allowed. I even asked one of my employers, but their society had decided to wait before letting us resume work. But hopefully, that will change soon and I can start working. Our whole lives are here now. My kids go to school in Noida and even though it would have been more comfortable to go back home where most of our family live, I don’t want to lose my work here. There is no guarantee that by the time we return, my employers won’t find other maids,” Sarita from Jharkhand, who works as domestic help, said.With construction activities and industries gradually resuming work, daily wage labourers also feel that their situation will change soon.“We returned from Bihar only a few days before the lockdown. I used to work as domestic help but due to a lack of work, I started working at a construction site. For two months during the lockdown, I was without work or money, completely dependent on others for ration. Our contractor returned home, leaving me and several others high and dry. But a few days ago, I got a call from a society in Sector 77. They asked me to start working there. If I start earning, I can resume sending money back home. In the beginning, I wanted to go home, but if I go back to Bihar, I will not have enough money,” Parveena, a daily wage earner, said.For most migrants choosing to continue to stay, the decision is monetary.At the onset of the lockdown when it wasn’t clear whether the migrants would be able to go back home, Manoj, a rickshaw puller, and his wife had used their meagre savings to invest in fruits and vegetables which they purchase from the Sector 88 mandi and bring to sell around high-rises in the city in his rickshaw.“Even if we wanted to go back home, we cannot because all our money is now tied up in the rickshaw and the produce we sell. Nobody will buy my rickshaw during this time and the only way to sell it will be at a loss. My brothers and parents are back home but now we have to stay here,” Manoj said.However, despite all these reasons, hundreds of migrants are crossing the border looking for ways to reach home.“We are plying at least five buses today itself to ferry these migrants from the borders to shelter homes where arrangements have been made to take those from various UP districts to their homes. More roadways buses have been requested and soon those from out of the state will also be able to leave,” deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Sankalp Sharma, said.The administration has also released a link where migrants willing to go back home can register themselves. On Saturday, five trains had departed from Gautam Budh Nagar for various districts in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/going-back-home-is-not-an-option-for-all-migrants/story-mX4kjWsT30YM9DmRQKygXO.html
18-05-2020||Noida||8 employees at G Noida’s OPPO factory test Covid-19 positive, operations halted||At least eight employees at the Greater Noida factory of OPPO, the Chinese smartphone maker, was on Sunday found positive for the coronavirus, company officials said, adding that all operations at the manufacturing facility were suspended till further notice.A spokesperson of OPPO India said that the company is taking stringent measures to keep the employees safe and is disinfecting the premises. “We had obtained permission from the state authorities to resume production earlier this month, following the MHA directives. As an organization that places the safety of all our employees and citizens at the forefront, we have suspended all operations at our manufacturing facility in Greater Noida and initiated Covid-19 testing for over 3,000 employees, for which results are awaited. Will only allow employees with negative test results to resume office following all safety protocols,” the spokesperson said in a statement.The company officials, however, refused to divulge the name of the hospital where the employees have been isolated. “We have intimated the matter to the district administration,” the spokesperson said.However, despite repeated attempts, neither the district magistrate nor the chief medical officer could be available to confirm the positive cases related to OPPO.Meanwhile, Gautam Budh Nagar reported eight fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total tally of positive cases to 255 in the district.According to health officials, of 255 cases, 191 patients have been discharged from different hospitals of the district and five others died of Covid-19, leaving the district with only 59 active cases. “The fresh cases include two men, each aged 21 years, a 53-year-old woman from Sector 12, a 55-year-old health worker of district hospital in Sector 30, and a 27-year-old female boarder of the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida,” a senior health official said.“Besides, three others have also tested Covid-19 positive, including a 50-year-old man of Sector 10, a 23-year-old woman and 47-year-old man – both from Sector 8,” he said.Official sources said that out of 10 Covid-19 patients discharged from different hospitals on Sunday, five were admitted in Sharda hospital. Today’s list of cured and discharged patients included one surgeon from the Super Specialty Paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute, commonly known as Child PGI. He reportedly got the infection while working in the quarantine ward there.With the release of 10 patients from the isolation wards of different hospitals, the recovery rate of GB Nagar district has come to approximately 75%, which is much better than the national and state recovery rates of around 36% and 51%, respectively. Even in terms of fatality rate, GB Nagar (over 2.2%) stands better than national fatality rate of 3.2% and state’s 2.4%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ops-shut-at-oppo-factory-in-g-noida-as-8-employees-test-covid-19-positive/story-FJmWKyvc1XspXCjXirLPQJ.html
18-05-2020||Noida||Mercury may touch 44 degrees Celsius later this week||With the withdrawal of back-to-back western disturbances, weather analysts expect the mercury to rise by three to four degrees in the next three days bringing heatwave like conditions to the national capital region.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the western disturbance — a phenomenon that causes rains and thunder activities in the region—withdrawing, as of Sunday night, temperatures are all set to witness a sharp rise. The mercury levels are expected to rise from Tuesday, and the maximum temperatures may reach 43 to 44 degrees Celsius between May 21 and 23.“Until Sunday, the average temperature for the region has been around 40 degrees in the last few days. While there was a possibility of light rains in some parts of Delhi on Sunday, the adjoining region of western Uttar Pradesh, which includes Noida and Ghaziabad, was almost dry. From Monday, the sky will be clear giving way to vertical sun rays that cause more heating,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.He said while no heatwaves have been forecasted yet, rise in mercury levels is on the cards.“For heatwaves to happen, the maximum temperature must be above 44.3 degrees Celsius. From the current trend we can establish that the maximum temperature could go up to 43 to 44 degrees Celsius this week,” said Srivastava.On Sunday, the maximum temperature was recorded at 40.5 degrees Celsius and the minimum was at 23.6 degrees Celsius, same as a day before.On Monday, the maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to hover around 41 and 23.6 degrees Celsius respectively.“There are possibilities of very light rain in the region on Wednesday, but that would not have much effect on the maximum temperature. The sharp rise in temperature in the region would lead to heatwaves-like conditions,” said Mahesh Palawat, director, private weather forecasting agency Skymet.Palawat also pointed out that while heatwaves usually hit the region by April and episodes of intense heatwaves are witnessed around mid-May, the frequent western disturbances this year saved the region from the heatwaves until now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/mercury-may-touch-44-degrees-celsius-later-this-week/story-B7KYj18vgvk9y25OVsnnxJ.html
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||Three more recover in Mohali, no new case in tricity for two days||On a recovery spree, Mohali witnessed three more patients being discharged on Sunday, bringing down the number of active cases in the district to four, while no new case was recorded in the neighbouring cities of Chandigarh and Panchkula as well.The total number of active cases in the tricity stands at 144.The last positive case in Panchkula was recorded on May 15, in Chandigarh on May 13 and in Mohali on May 10.In Mohali, a total of 98 people have been discharged out of the total 105. Three co-morbid patients had, unfortunately, died, but the recovery rate of Mohali is now 93%.Dr Hamandeep Kaur Brar, nodal officer for Covid-19 in the district, said on Sunday three female patients were discharged from Rupnagar civil hospital where they had been working. Out of the three, two belong to Kharar and one is a native of Kurali.Deputy commissioner of Mohali Girish Dayalan said the district was on a recovery spree. “As a result of the painstaking efforts of the administration and the topnotch medical care provided by the health department, no new case has been reported in the district recently,” he said.Regarding the status of the quarantined persons, the DC said as of now, the quarantine period of 3,328 people in the district was over, while 1,253 were currently serving it.Exactly after two months of the outbreak, Chandigarh has reported 191 confirmed cases, out of which 51 have been treated, and three have died. Total active cases are 137.In Panchkula, the number of active cases has come down to three out of total 25.The active cases are those of a 44-year-old milk vendor ofRajiv Colony near Sector 17 who tested positive on May 8, after a gap of 18 days with no positive case; a 63-year-old woman of Sector 10 and a 56-year-old man of Sector 21.While the milk vendor is admitted to the civil hospital in Sector 6, Panchkula, the woman is admitted at a private hospital in Sector 21. The 56-year-old man, however, is home isolated as he tested negative in the second sample.Two doctors at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) have been quarantined after they were exposed to two infected persons from other states who were admitted at the hospital for other ailments.PGIMER’s official communique stated that a junior resident doctor who was treating a six-year-old from Ludhiana was quarantined after the child tested positive posthumously. The parents of the deceased child have also been quarantined.Similarly, a senior resident who was treating a patient from Saharanpur, Uttar Pradesh, who later tested positive, has been quarantined as he did not follow all guidelines as per the prescribed policy, the official communique said. The patient’s father and another patient have also been quarantined.The batch of 13 foreign returnees, who were stranded abroad and reached Chandigarh last week have all tested negative. The returnees, including a doctor and four students, the youngest being a 13-year-old, who came in a CTU bus from New Delhi last Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-more-recover-in-mohali-no-new-case-in-tricity-for-two-days/story-PMvB9ye3Ueh6Bsg2YKe8IL.html
18-05-2020||City||9-year-old Ludhiana girl found dead, parents claim suicide||A nine-year-old girl was found dead under mysterious circumstances at her home in Dhandhran Enclave on Saturday evening. The girl’s parents claim that she had hanged herself following a spat with her brother over playing games on the mobile phone, however, police found the matter suspicious as froth was reportedly coming out of her mouth when she was taken to the hospital.According to inspector Jagdev Singh, Sadar station house officer, the police received information about the death of the girl on Saturday evening. The girl’s father, a labourer, said that the siblings had a fight over the mobile phone following which he and his wife intervened. Later, they went to the first floor of the house and when they returned, they saw the girl’s lifeless body hanging from the ceiling fan. He claimed that his daughter had committed suicide after the argument.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/9-year-old-ludhiana-girl-found-dead-parents-claim-suicide/story-RjGgCowGr6w5qKoDwHq3jN.html
18-05-2020||City||May 17: 21,000 migrants ferried to Bihar and UP on 18 trains from Ferozepur division||As many as 21,000 migrants left for their home states on different trains that departed from the stations falling under the Ferozepur division on Sunday. A total of 10 trains, carrying around 12,000 migrants, departed from the Ludhiana railway station today. This is the highest number of train to operate from a station in the northern region in a day. Besides, five trains left from Jalandhar City, two from Amritsar and one from Ferozepur today. As many as 67 trains have departed from Ludhiana since May 5, carrying around 80,000 passengers so far. From Jalandhar city railway station, as many as 50 trains have left while from Amritsar 14 have left and six from Ferozepur.In the last 13 days, a total of 137 trains have ferried around 1.64 lakh passengers from four stations of Ferozepur Division.On Monday, 11 trains will run from Ludhiana railway station to districts of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/18-trains-from-ferozepur-division-ferry-21-000-migrants-to-bihar-and-up/story-aFKQtDomXPpDd1S1yoNaTL.html
18-05-2020||Pune||Pune man duped of Rs 38.55 lakh in online fraud||A real estate businessman from Pune was duped of Rs 38.5 lakh in an online fraud involving business of acquiring a kind of oil for making vaccines. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the 48-year-old resident of Mukundnagar area of Pune.“The complainant is in the real estate business. He was looking for options for a second business when he became friends with a woman on Facebook who offered him a business opportunity,” said police inspector Shabbir Sayyed of Swargate police station who is investigating the case.The woman said she worked for a California-based company that made vaccines for humans as well as animals.The woman put the complainant in touch with a man who allegedly represented her company. The complainant travelled to Delhi to meet the man who in turn introduced him to another man who promised to supply the oil to the complainant. The woman allegedly told the complainant that the oil was used in the process of making vaccine for humans and animals done by her company.“She allegedly told him that the oil is a rare kind and is found only in Asia. The man, who claimed he would provide the oil for the complainant to acquire on behalf of the US-based company, sold him 5 litres of oil at the cost of Rs 60,000 per litre when they first met,” said PI Sayyed.The police are tracking 14 transactions made by the complainant between last week of February and third week of March.However, the complainant never received the oil even though the demand for oil and payment kept coming in, according to his complaint. After the complainant realised that the set up was fake, he approached the cyber cell and registered a complaint. After an initial investigation, a case was registered at the Swargate police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-man-duped-of-rs-38-55-lakh-in-online-fraud/story-3MZFcHgAb4Pli3ETOQZ1kO.html
18-05-2020||Pune||18-year-old boy’s body found in Pune’s Janata Vasahat||PUNE The body of an 18-year-old boy was found on Sunday morning. He had drowned at a canal in Janata Vasahat, on Friday, according to police.The deceased has been identified as Akshay Anantrao Kamble, 18, a resident of Dattanagar near Katraj.His body was found in the jurisdiction of Dattawadi police station on Sunday morning. The body was moved to Sassoon General Hospital.The deceased had gone swimming with his friends in a canal in Janata Vasahat on Friday, according to the police.“He had gone for swimming and was sitting on the edge, but he slipped and fell as per the initial information. The statements of his friends are yet to be recorded,” said an official on condition of anonymity at the Dattawadi police station.His death was recorded at Dattawadi police station and the body was handed over to his family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/18-year-old-boy-s-body-found-after-he-drowned-at-canal-in-janata-vasahat/story-kuYEcpNgKeE3L0qzK9wRUN.html
18-05-2020||Pune||Pune experiences brief rain spell, cooler temperature||The city experienced cooler temperature and rain in the latter part of the evening on Sunday. The minimum temperature dropped to 24.4-degree celsius, and many areas in the city like Katraj, Aundh, Hadapsar, Kothrud experienced rain, with thunder, lightning and gusty winds. However, the rain spell did not last long. The fire brigade received only 4 calls about tree branches felling due to gusty winds in Katraj, Kalyani nagar, and Kasba peth.The city will witness partly cloudy skies with thundery activity until May 22 with the maximum temperatures varying between 38 to 39-degree celsius and minimum temperatures around 23 to 24 degree celsius, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Maharashtra is experiencing rain due to a depression over southeast Bay of Bengal, which is due to the advancement of the southwest monsoon into some parts of south Bay of Bengal, Nicobar Islands and the Andaman Sea. The conditions are favourable for further advancement of southwest monsoon into parts of south Bay of Bengal, remaining parts of the Andaman Sea and Andaman islands during the next 48 hours, the IMD stated. This depression has intensified into a deep depression and lay centered over the same region at 2.30 pm on May 16, 2020.It remained practically stationary and rapidly intensified into a cyclonic storm “AMPHAN” and lay centered over the same region at 5.30 pm on May 16, 2020, south of Paradip (Odisha), 1,200 km south-southwest of Digha (West Bengal) and 1,300 km south-southwest of Khepupara (Bangladesh). It further moved north-northwestwards and intensified slightly and moved slowly northwestwards and intensified into a severe cyclonic storm.It is very likely to intensify further into a very severe cyclonic storm during the next 6 hours. It is very likely to move nearly northwards slowly during the next 24 hours and then re-curve north-northeastwards and move fast across the northwest Bay of Bengal and cross West Bengal - Bangladesh coasts.There is a western disturbance as a trough in mid tropospheric westerlies, with the system moving east-northeastwards. There is a cyclonic circulation adjoining west Rajasthan and over southeast Arabian Sea off the Kerala coast.While the highest maximum temperature of 44.6 degree celsius was reported at Jalgaon (Central Maharashtra), thunderstorms were reported at isolated places over Vidarbha, Central Maharashtra, and interior Karnataka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-experiences-brief-rain-spell-cooler-temperature/story-E2gM9nRaa2QAstPklUyzmO.html
18-05-2020||Pune||New ‘highway’ market emerges after APMC shutdown in Pune||After the Pune agricultural produce market committee (APMC) shut down operations two weeks ago, a new market has emerged with farmers bringing in goods from outside Pune and striking deals with local retailers on the highway outside city limits. Trucks from out of town arrive and park on the highway where local retailers from the Pune transfer the goods to their tempos and return back to the city. Kiran Waghmare, a farmer from Phaltan sells potatoes and onions to local retailers on the Katraj – Dehu road bypass highway. “It had become difficult to sell our goods after the APMC market was closed down in Pune, and also the police were not allowing us to come inside the city limits. So most of the farmers decided not to enter the city and wait on the highways to sell our goods. Accordingly, from the last 10 days we stand on the bypass highway, contact our regular retailers in the city and sell our goods. It has made our transactions very easy and without disturbance to the rules and regulations of the lockdown,” Waghmare said. Another vegetable trader from Kolhapur, Aditya Mohite said, “Farmers are cultivating large number of vegetables across the state but are not able to sell the goods in Pune and Mumbai due to shut down of APMC markets. So what we decided is to not go inside the city, park our vegetable trucks on the highways and sell our goods.”According to Mohite, traders collect vegetable goods from farmers in their district, load it in one truck and then bring it to Pune on the bypass highway. “Our truck reaches the designated spot on the highway early morning around 5am, the retailers in Pune bring their tempos, purchase the vegetables and go back,” Mohite said. A local city retailer, Sameer Chavan who regularly buys vegetables and fruits from these trucks on the highways said the shutdown of APMC has resulted in a shutdown of Market yard which has forced retailers to buy goods on the highway. “The rates compared to the regular rates at the APMC are a bit high around 10 to 15 per cent more but as we don’t have any option we buy the vegetables. This certainly effects on the common public, as we also sell the vegetables at higher rates,” Chavan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/new-highway-market-emerges-after-apmc-shutdown-in-pune/story-xXauOdzBX4RWtkhL4vD0TN.html
18-05-2020||Pune||Pune APMC foodgrain market to be shut from May 19||As eight people at the foodgrain market at the Pune Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC), Market Yard have tested positive for Sars-cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection, officials have decided to close down the market from May 19.The APMC vegetable and fruit market are completely closed operations from the last two weeks.Popatlal Oswal, president, The Poona Chamber, organisation of traders at Market Yard, said, “It is noted that people living in the Market Yard and surrounding areas have tested positive for Covid-19, so along with the vegetable market we have decided to close down the foodgrains market too.”“According to the instructions from the state government and as a social responsibility we continued our market for the last two months, due to which supply of food grains was smooth in Pune and nearby districts. But now looking at the increasing number of cases within the Market Yard area we have decided to close down foodgrain market from May 19,” he said.Local retailers and general store shop owners are now worried about the supply from the market.Yogesh Patankar, general store owner in Sadashiv peth, said, “I have already stocked food grains and other goods in the shop, but if the APMC foodgrain market will shut down then it will be difficult.”“Once the stock which we have is over residents will face the crunch. APMC should make alternative arrangements for the supply of food grains other than the Market Yard,” said Patankar.BG Deshmukh, Pune APMC chairman, said, “There is a fear among the traders at the market and we are now we are in the process of increasing the Covid-19 tests at the market.”“We appeal to residents to not panic. We are trying for alternative options to keep enough foodgrains supply to the city. On Monday, May 18 the foodgrain market is open and so people should not crowd and panic purchase,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-apmc-foodgrain-market-to-be-shut-from-may-19/story-2TAdyBMRDHqU8cIB21QtaI.html
18-05-2020||Pune||9 stranded Indians return to Pune from Afghanistan||One hundred and forty-three Afghanistan nationals departed for their homeland from the city, while nine Indians returned back home from Afghanistan with the help of Pune customs.The flight landed at 12.40 hours and departed at 13.30 hours, according to officials.Vaishali Patange, customs commissioner, said, “We successfully facilitated the arrival of nine Indian nationals and departure of 143 Afghanistan nationals stranded in Afghanistan and India respectively by KAM Airlines.”“They were stranded due to the restrictions in place to contain Covid-19 cases. Among the departing Afghan nationals, most of them were defence personnel and students who came to Pune Airport from Pune, Goa, Panchamarghi, and Bangalore,” said Patange.“Out of the nine arriving Indian passengers, eight were sent to their respective places to be quarantined while one passenger who had some symptoms was sent for Covid-19 test,” said Patange.“Out of the total 147 Afghani passengers who had come for returning back home, four could not be accommodated as the flight capacity was of 143 passengers and they had to be sent back home,” said Patange. None of departing passengers were found with signs and symptoms of Covid- 19, she added.The Pune Customs, Airport Authority of India, Immigration, CISF and District administration coordinated to facilitate the movement and the district administration arranged for the transport of these passengers. All the passengers were screened and guidelines were followed at the airport where they were seen maintaining social distancing and using sanitizers while completing the formalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/9-stranded-indians-return-to-pune-from-afghanistan/story-4oAK5qsdZ9K6Yp9yTDjeOL.html
18-05-2020||City||Policies of Captain Amarinder Singh during curfew lauded||A meeting of chairmen of boards, related to industry, held here on Sunday, lauded the decisions taken by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh during lockdown. The meeting was attended by KK Bawa, chairman, Punjab State Industrial Development Corporation (PSIDC); Pawan Dewan, chairman, Punjab Large Industries Development Board (PLIDB) and Gurpreet Singh Gogi, chairman, Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC).They said the smooth procurement of wheat, start of industries in mixed land use and other areas, have proved beneficial to both farmers and labourers.They criticised the Rs 20-lakh crore economic package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and said it was as a mere “jumla (false promise)”.They said, “Instead of helping labourers financially, the Union government is merely issuing statements and is not paying any heed towards the accidents taking place on railway tracks and roads.”Instead of “gifting” Rs 68,000 crore to his select industrialist friends, he should have helped the farmers.Meanwhile, backing policies of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, chairman of the Punjab Medium Industrial Development Board (PMIDB) Amarjit Singh Tikka and chairman of the Punjab Youth Development Board (PYDM) Sukhwinder Singh Bindra, said they had full faith in his leadership.In a press statement, both Tikka and Bindra said, “It was due to the farsighted approach of Capt Amarinder Singh that lockdown/curfew was imposed in the state so that people stay safe from Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/policies-of-captain-amarinder-singh-during-curfew-lauded/story-xh1mRtotfvPJMPRc11p4XP.html
18-05-2020||City||Lineman suffers burns, PSPCL junior engineer booked||A lineman suffered an electric shock while removing a sack fastened on a transformer near Veer Palace Chowk here on Saturday.After the kin of the lineman staged a protest at the office of commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal, the Focal Point police lodged a first information report (FIR) against a junior engineer (JE) of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL).The victim, Pankaj Thakur, 33, of Sanjay Gandhi Colony, said he works as a lineman with the Tele Performance Company, which provides services to the PSPCL.Thakur added, “When I, along with linemen Daljit Singh and Des Raj, was repairing power supply cables from Jeevan Nagar to Veer Palace Chowk, JE Hukam Singh asked me to remove a sack fastened on a transformer. The JE told me that the power supply of the area has been snapped.”“However, the power supply was on and when I tried to remove the sack, I suffered an electric shock and burns on my arms,” said the lineman, who is currently admitted at a private hospital.He alleged that he suffered burns due to the negligence of the JE.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Bhupinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said an FIR under Sections 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the JE.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lineman-suffers-burns-pspcl-junior-engineer-booked/story-NR4jhO6Ub4e1KTVBgr2mPO.html
18-05-2020||City||Motorcycle-borne miscreants rob 2 brothers of ₹20,000 in Ludhiana||Two brothers were robbed of ₹20,000 cash after three motorcycle-borne miscreants assaulted them with iron rods and sharp-edged weapons on Sua Road in Sahnewal on Saturday night.The victims have been identified as Mahavir Garg, 44, of Mundian Kalan and his brother Sanjiv Garg.Mahavir Garg suffered fractures in his leg and ribs. Both have been admitted to a local hospital for treatment.In his statement to the police, Sanjiv said, “We were returning home on a scooter from our confectionery shop after finishing our work. When we reached near Sua Road, three miscreants attacked us with iron rods and weapons.”“The miscreants robbed us of ₹20,000 cash and fled from the spot. We immediately informed our family members who rushed us to the hospital,” he added.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Dharminder Singh, said that a case of robbery and assault has been lodged against unidentified accused at Sahnewal police station. Police are scanning the closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras in the area to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/motorcycle-borne-miscreants-rob-2-brothers-of-20-000-in-ludhiana/story-dpqiAHKnjrOyKz9GMG1wMO.html
18-05-2020||City||#LiveWithCorona: Ludhiana police chief conducts live yoga session on Facebook||With Prime Minister Narendra Modi announcing that to meet the national objectives in the lockdown period, the country would have to battle the coronavirus and move ahead, Ludhiana police has come up with an initiative called ‘#LiveWithCorona’.Under this campaign, police will share practices and precautions that can be observed by the residents while doing routine work, to avoid being exposed to the coronavirus infection.Commencing the series, Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal went live on Facebook on Sunday morning and performed yoga for about an hour and a half. Around 200 persons joined the live session, which started at around 7am. The announcement regarding the session was made on Saturday.Further, the video was released on Facebook and it had been viewed by over 22,000 persons at the time of the filing of this report.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, headquarters) Deepak Pareek said, “The video is available for all the people. Anyone who is in link with Ludhiana Police on Facebook can watch the video and practice yoga on a daily basis.” “In this series, police will be sharing various tips related to lifestyle, home, work, transport, shopping, health, diet, fitness and much more to help residents to follow their normal routine while battling the virus,” he said.Rajesh Gupta, a Delhi resident, who was one of the viewers, appreciated the efforts of the police and commented, “It is good to watch the police chief setting an example on how to manage stress and stay fit during this stressful period.”Lauding the police chief, National Road Safety Council member Kamaljit Soi also commented, “I must compliment and tell you that you are too good in Yogic Kriyas!! Really fantastic, this was another great side of yours after meticulous policing!!! It’s really a great pleasure to have known such a great person, planner and an all-rounder in true sense!!!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/livewithcorona-ludhiana-police-chief-conducts-live-yoga-session-on-facebook/story-pNTFFU81VxsRTLURVjCJfN.html
18-05-2020||City||Students of KIMT, Ludhiana, attend webinar on importance of health||Students of Khalsa Institute of Management and Technology (KIMT) for Women, Ludhiana, took part in a webinar on the topic ‘Nurturing physical, mental and social health during and post Covid-19’.The event was organised by Dr BR Ambedkar University, Agra, and students of MBA first and second year attended it.“We should learn to live with coronavirus as it is going to stay for a long time. As we have been confined to our homes for more than 50 days, we got the opportunity to strengthen our bond with our family. The lockdown has forced many people, who were used to an unhealthy diet, to eat home-made food daily,” said professor Ashok Mittal, vice-chancellor of BR Ambedkar University.Likewise, prof Swati Mehta stressed on the importance of eating nutritious food at this time. “In today’s time, health is the most important element, so we should take care of it by eating nutritious food, exercising and by maintain a proper sleeping pattern,” she said.KIMT director Harpreet Kaur lauded the efforts of the organisers of the webinar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/students-of-kimt-ludhiana-attend-webinar-on-importance-of-health/story-Nnff4iKAgwX7ktsUMp4mnN.html
18-05-2020||City||Amid lockdown, Ludhiana postal department receiving job requests on newly launched mobile app||A mobile application that was launched by the department of posts for public convenience amid the coronavirus lockdown has turned into a job portal with many asking the department for work.The mobile application, Postinfo, was introduced by the department on May 3 for the submission of requests by residents looking to avail various services for essential items. Through the app, an applicant can choose various services such as mail booking, mail delivery and finance services that are being carried out with Aadhaar Enabled Payment System (AePS), India Post Payments Bank (IPPB) services and other online services. The application was introduced at a time when the department of posts has been acknowledged as an essential service by the government amid the lockdown.Senior superintendent of post office, Ludhiana, Amanpreet Singh, said they are receiving around four to five job requests in the app on daily basis. “There is confusion among people regarding the features of this app as it has been recently introduced and not many are aware of it. I would like to clarify that the department of posts has not advertised any opening presently,” he said.‘STAFF MAKING CLARIFICATION CALLS TO APPLICANTS’Singh also said that the staff monitoring the service requests on the app has been making individual calls to those who put forth requests for work. “All the service requests made through the app are being addressed on priority. In case of job requests, our staff members call up the applicants and give clarification to them. Since May 3, around 153 requests have been addressed through the app in Ludhiana,” he said. The postal official also said that nowadays, people have largely been making requests for money withdrawal with the help of AePS and medicine parcel orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-lockdown-ludhiana-postal-department-receiving-job-requests-on-newly-launched-mobile-app/story-bAE7LQf6AK3gv9HJZimorM.html
18-05-2020||Pune||With no shows for three months, circus troupes in dire straits in Pune||An empty tent is a circus group’s worst nightmare but the nationwide lockdown due to the Covid-19 has compounded the problems of an already struggling business, said Umesh Aagashe, proprietor of Great Bharat Circus in Pune.Every year, circus tents come up in open spaces in the city and are a top draw for young and old alike. However, with circus business and its artistes reeling under crisis of poor footfalls and the given the current circumstances, the Great Bharat Circus and Rambo Circus have discontinued the shows. They are hoping to resume the shows in September or October.According to these circus companies, business post lockdown will be completely unviable, which may pose major challenge for hundreds of people and animals part of troops.The Great Bharat Circus, which has put up the tents near Wagholi in Kesanand Phata has been affected financially. The residents of Wagholi have started to raise funds for the crew.Suraj Kumar Yadav who has been entertaining the crowd with his antics as a clown for the past five years with The Great Bharat Circus and is apprehensive when the circus will begin again. “We are getting food from the residents but that is not enough. The animals are getting enough animal fodder donated by people, but the circus owners are paying for milk and bread for dogs. What we need is support from the government, for soon it will be monsoon and we will be stuck with no work. We are hoping to see some relief by September or October, otherwise we will not survive.”The 40-year-old The Great Bharat Circus was bought on contract by Umesh Aagashe two years ago. “The circus has a crew of 62 artistes and supporting staff with 24 animals including dogs, horses, camels and birds. We have not had a show since three months. There has not been a single Covid case in the troupe. We are all living in the circus premise and are maintaining social distance,” he said.“We are facing an uncertain future and are in dire need of funds. Usually the daily expense of a circus is Rs 60,000-70,000 when we have performances. I haven’t paid any salary to my artistes since March. They have family and children to support,” said Aagashe.Aagashe said that the artistes have marriages within the clan and the children are sent to boarding schools for education. “None of my artistes have homes to go to and the circus is their family. If the government doesn’t help us, we will have no future circus performances,” he said.According to the Sujeet Dilip, member of Indian Circus Federation and owner of Rambo Circus, the days ahead will be even more difficult.“We used to be a team of 40 circuses from India but are now down to 12 circus troops. We were in talks with the foreign circus owners to create new performances; however, we were hit by the pandemic. We are trying to manage with help of NGOs who are donating food and ration,” said Dilip.Rambo circus is stranded in Airoli, Navi Mumbai and is getting support from the local corporators. “If the government allows circuses to begin after lockdown, where social distancing can be maintained, then it can help sustain this fading world of live entertainment,” said Dilip.Anil Satav, a member of the Wagholi gram panchayat, who reached out to The Great Bharat Circus said, “Jijamata Bank donated food grains and animal fodder worth Rs 65,000 when the lockdown began. With no shows, and complete lockdown, the troupe is stuck within their tents and are cordoned off from the main road and the Wagholi village, hence we helped them with dog food 100kg, rice 350kg, gram 100kg,mugdal 50kg,2cans oil, onion 60kg, potato 55kg, animal feed 1,000kg, sugar 50kg, teapowder 5kg and maize 1,000kg.”Dilip Nath of The Great Bombay Circus, which is stuck in Tamil Nadu with 80 artistes and support staff, is surviving with the support of the local government. “90 per cent of the circus industry is hit by this pandemic and we see less chances of survival of the smaller circus units with no support for the future. Hence we appeal to the government to lend us a support to stand on our feet again,” said Nath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/with-no-shows-for-three-months-circus-troupes-in-dire-straits-in-pune/story-2Xy3dQN3ucz6mufGS7LgnL.html
18-05-2020||City||With no helping hand, coolies bear the brunt of pandemic on their own||When the travel restrictions were imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), among the first to lose their livelihood were the coolies at the railway station who once made travelling easier by helping people carry their luggage. Yet when the pandemic struck, they had no one to offer a helping hand.What went against them was that though they work for the railways, they are not exactly railway employees. “We get relaxation for travelling in trains but we do not receive salary from the railways. The central government says that we are not permanent employees so we should ask for help from state government and state government says that as we work for the railways, the central government should help us,” says Kashmiri Lal, national president of the All India Railway Lal Vardi Coolie Union. There are around 20,000 coolies across country, of which around 350 work at different stations of Punjab.Shalu, 35, one such coolie who works at the Ludhiana railway station says, that the last two months have been hard for him and his family. “I have been working as a coolie for the past 12 years. I have no other source of livelihood. Due to the pandemic-induced lockdown, I am out of work and have no money to buy anything,” he says.Initially, he took to purchasing ration on credit or depended on non-governmental organisations (NGOs). “But now, shopkeepers are also turning us away and NGOs have also stopped coming to help us. We are now solely dependent on the administration,” Shalu says.He says that the administration delivers ration after 10 days of applying through the helpline. “The administration provides us essentials but one cannot survive just on ration. There are many other necessary products that one has to purchase, especially when there are children at home,” Shalu says, adding that there were 56 coolies working at Ludhiana railway station and around 20 of them have returned to their villages in Rajasthan.With regular train services suspended till June 30, the coolies have little hope. “We have to survive another month without money,” says All India Railway Lal Vardi Coolie Union president Kashmiri Lal. “The railways must deploy us on the goods trains and pay us minimum wages at least,” he says. He adds that he has written several mails to the Prime Minister’s office, railway minister, chief minister, general manager railways, divisional railway manager and several other departments but all in vain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-no-helping-hand-coolies-bear-the-brunt-of-pandemic-on-their-own/story-Ic0PmLfBVI4E9Zx6BhoyaI.html
18-05-2020||City||Triple whammy for HP apple growers||The Rs4,000 crore apple economy is facing multiple challenges during the Covid-19 lockdown with untimely rain and hailstorms damaging trees, birds and animals damaging crops and non-availability of labour and fruit packaging material. Hail and rain in the last two weeks battered orchards in the major apple growing regions of Shimla, Kullu and Mandi district, damaging apples, cherries, pears, plums and almonds. Areas where the impact was severe included Rohru, Jubbal, Kotkhai, Rampur, Kullu and Nirmand, with calls growing louder from growers for loan waivers.“Hailstones were the size of walnuts and caused immense damage,” said Hari Singh Thakur, an apple grower in Nirmand.Animals, birds in orchardsRestricted human activity during the lockdown has also led to birds, especially pigeons or harials and bats, picking at fruits and damaging them. “With no one to guard my orchards, birds and other animals are feasting on the crops,” said Bhagat Singh Thakur, a fruit grower in Brasli village located near Rohru Bazar.Transportation and labour woesHarvesting, packaging and transportation of apple was mainly dependent upon migratory labour force from Nepal and some parts of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and other states, but travel restrictions and safety protocols by the government during the lockdown affected movement. More than one lakh Neplaese labourers, the backbone of the apple economy who came into Himachal Pradesh during the apple harvest season that commenced by mid-June in the lower heights and culminated in the higher regions by the end of October end, were unable to enter India. “We are extremely worried as these labourers will not come to the state. This will cause problems during the harvest and transportation of apple and we fear the fruits will rot in trees and orchards,” says Lokinder Singh Bisht, president of the Progressive Apple Growers. The growers had made several representations to the government and hoped steps would be taken soon to help them.Running out of packaging materialFruit growers were also concerned about unavailability of packaging material and increase in the prices of packing trays by around Rs 80 to Rs 150, as manufacturers claimed they had been hit by shortage of raw material.Urging chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and horticulture minister Mahender Singh Thakur to intervene and regulate the prices of trays and make arrangements for supply of raw material, Bisht said,“We also request the horticulture minister to chalk out a plan for procurement of all grades of apple with government agencies and private parties like Reliance Fresh, Adani Agri Fresh or Big Basket so that the state economy is saved from ruin.”Growers also demanded that the government facilitate hiring of private storage facilities in and outside the state to store produce and sell it later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/triple-whammy-for-hp-apple-growers/story-Qg64TAlW9StmMbSczj3nWI.html
18-05-2020||City||A 700-kilometre trek easier than seeing families starve, say migrants leaving Mohali||The migrants from the district, some with small children, are moving in hordes towards the railway stations and highways, not to catch a train or a bus, but to walk or cycle along the rails and roads hoping to reach home soon.Yes, they are aware of the special trains, but most of them do not have valid documents to apply for a ticket. Even for those with documents, digital illiteracy and long wait are deterrents that they are not ready to tackle; walking or cycling seems an easier bet.Two trains carrying 2,582 migrant workers left for Uttar Pradesh on Saturday from the Mohali railway station. The morning train left for Hardoi with 1,341 passengers and the evening train carried 1,241 migrants to Gorakhpur. More than 20 students were sent to Jammu on a bus from Kharar on Saturday.Alongside, a large number of migrants continued to walk or cycle their way home.Pratap Bhushan, a migrant who used to work with a packing factory in Zirakpur, said he purchased a new cycle with his savings and started for Sitapur in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday. “There is no work, and whatever little I had, is being saved to reach back home safe. I don’t have an Aadhaar card, so getting registered for a train ticket was out of question,” added Pratap, who along with a bag full of belongings is carrying a pump in case the tyres get deflated. He left Zirakpur in a group of five persons, all of whom were staying together on rent and had purchased new cycles.‘NO OTHER OPTION’“There is no other option,” said Nand Lal, who along with his family of five left Zirakpur on Friday. “We are struggling to get two square meals, so how can we pay rent? Back in the village at least children will not have to sleep on empty stomachs,” he said.“To get cooked food, we had to stand in a line for two hours. The food was not sufficient to feed all the members of the family,” Lal said, adding, he will rather walk more than 700 kilometres than see his family starve.“There is no work and the landlords are asking for rent,” said Rashpal, a construction labourer, who is walking to Gorakhpur along with his 10 friends.Another migrant, Bhushan Thakur, said “Walking on the track is easy and the police do not stop you. I will go back to farming the small landholding I have.”ONLINE REGISTRATION NO GUARANTEE OF RAIL TICKET “We came to Punjab 10 years ago in search of work, but now with no money, we want to go back,” said Radhey, a migrant who has been waiting for the last five days for tickets for his family to arrive, so they can board the train to Hardoi, just like the one that left Mohali railway station on Saturday.Getting registered online does not guarantee tickets considering the limited number of seats and long lists of migrants waiting to get in. Radhey said, “Last time we could not get the ticket, so we decided we are not moving from here (the station). We are sleeping under the open sky, but what other option do we have.” He has two minor sons.Shyam Lal and his family, with three children, have been outside the screening since Friday. “Despite having received a message, I was not allowed inside for screening. They say it is only for people staying in Dera Bassi or Zirakpur. Where do I go now,” asked Shyam Lal, who wants to go back to Bareilly. He was staying in Panchkula and reached Zirakpur after his relative informed him that a train was leaving from Mohali.RUSH AT SCREENING CENTRES“The migrants from colonies near Nada Sahib and slum areas near Sector 20 in Panchkula have been pouring into Mohali to board the trains. This is leading to a rush outside the screening centres,” said Kuldeep Bawa, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) of Dera Bassi.The migrant families have been allowed to sit outside the screening centres as many have handed over the keys of their rented accommodations back to the landlords, the SDM said. Some leave after a day or two while others continue to wait for the next screening, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrants-leaving-mohali-say-they-would-rather-walk-or-cycle-700-kilometers-than-see-their-families-starve/story-PczB0znG89PXY4iMLUDQrI.html
18-05-2020||Lucknow||Rescued circus elephants celebrate five years of freedom||Four rescued circus elephants were treated with a ‘jumbo cake’ to celebrate their five years of freedom. The elephants—Macadamia, Walnut, Coconut and Peanut have completed five years at Wildlife SOS’s Elephant Conservation & Care Centre in Mathura.Separated from their families as babies, isolated, neglected, and brutally trained to perform painful tricks, had been the life of these elephants until they were rescued by Wildlife SOS from circus in 2015. Young elephants are often known for their vivacious nature, but years of abuse had left them with long-lasting scars. Today, the ‘Nut Herd’—as they are lovingly called, has overcome their traumatic history and is living a safe and healthy life.11-year-old Peanut is the youngest and most mischievous one. She shares a close bond with 17-year-old Coconut, who often takes on the role of a protective sister. They are practically inseparable and often enjoy going on walks and swims in the river.27-year-old Macadamia and 23-year-old Walnut are healthy bull (male) elephants. They have their own enclosures with separate pools, which they often enjoy for dipping in. Their enclosures are equipped with structural and cognitive enrichments designed to keep them mentally and physically stimulated.To celebrate their rescue anniversary, the veterinarians and elephant care-takers at Wildlife SOS prepared special ‘cakes’, made of cooked pulses and vegetables.Dr Yaduraj Khadpekar, assistant director veterinary and research, Wildlife SOS, said, “Peanut and Coconut are very playful and, as is typical of adolescent elephants, possess a bit of a destructive streak. They enjoy playing vigorously. Whereas, Wally and Mac are currently in musth, thus making their behaviour slightly unpredictable, but treats are a great way of gaining their cooperation.”Kartick Satyanarayan, CEO & co-founder of Wildlife SOS, said, “The Nut Herd was the largest, and the youngest, group of elephants rescued by Wildlife SOS in a go. We had to revamp our whole centre to accommodate four young, boisterous elephants who would need more space and resources as they grew up. Over the past five years, they have matured into delightful pachyderms with continued care, and it has been a wonderful experience to be part of their journey.”Baiju Raj M.V, director conservation projects, Wildlife SOS, said, “It is a pleasure to see the difference that a few years of love can make in the lives of distressed elephants. Today is Endangered Species Day and I couldn’t think of a better way to honour it than by celebrating the rescue anniversary of these incredible elephants.”Their story is representative of nearly 2,500 elephants in India who suffer deprived lives and captivity, giving tourists’ a ride, and performing at weddings, temples and on streets. With a population of 23,000 to 27,000 Asian elephants, India remains the last stronghold of the species. Thus, the survival of the entire species is critically linked with its survival in India.In a conservation ‘win’ for the endangered Asian elephants, the species was recently added to appendix I of UN convention on migratory species at the conference hosted in Gandhinagar, India. This will merit heightened conservation and protection measures for the species.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/rescued-circus-elephants-celebrate-five-years-of-freedom/story-IgOFZS5ueuuUoCcJ6OrgPM.html
18-05-2020||World||Anti-lockdown protests in US may spread Covid-19, says report||Anti-lockdown protests taking place around the United States could potentially spread the coronavirus as people are travelling to them far and areas not relatively unaffected by the epidemic, according to an analysis of data gleaned from location tracking of cellphones of the protestors.But the analysis, which was reported first by The Guardian news publication, does not directly link the protests to new infections or surges. It only flags the possibility of these protestors carrying back the virus from high-infection areas.These anonymized location data collected from in-phone apps and analyzed by VoteMap showed people traveling more than 150 miles to these protests, some were seen crossing state lines on their way back. Devices from the armed protests in Madison, Michigan, which caught the world’s attention, were seen returning to remote areas of the state.Dr Rob Davidson, of the Committee to Protect Medicare that provided the data to the Guardian, told the publication, “it’s hard to draw a straight line between devices, individuals at these protests, and cases.”President Donald Trump has backed these protests as he continues to press states to reopen, allow businesses to resume operations and let people return to work, arguing the lockdown may be causing more damage to the country than the epidemic. His eyes, here, are on his re-elections prospects in the face record unemployment and a severe downturn.The White House has sought to shift the blame thus, mostly on to China, through increasing public attacks and on the World Health Organization and, internally, its own federal agencies. Peter Navarro, a senior adviser to the president, said Sunday the country was let down by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the premier federal body charged with monitoring and preventing health crises such as the Covid-19 epidemic.“Early on in this virus, the CDC, which really had the most trusted brand around the world in this space, really let the country down with the testing because not only did they keep the testing within the bureaucracy, they had a bad test. And that did set us back,” he told NBC news.Testing has continued to be an issues. The federal government says every American who needs to be tested, according to CDC checklist of symptoms, can be tested and critics say more kits are needed to scale up surveillance in view of the reopening. New governor Andrew Cuomo took Covid-19 test at his daily briefing on Sunday to make the point. “This is a very big advantage for us, because testing originally was used to control the virus,” Cuomo said. “Now testing is going to be helpful in monitoring the virus.”The number of US fatalities from Covid-19 went up by 808 over the past 24 hours to 89,567 and reported infections went up by 18,937 to 1.48 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/anti-lockdown-protests-in-us-may-spread-covid-19-says-report/story-0SanDLJ6wfPEZIMMef9ErK.html
18-05-2020||World||Finally China gives in, agrees for probe into Covid-19 origin, WHO response||China on Monday gave in to mounting international pressure for a probe into the origin of Covid-19 and a review of the World Health Organisation’s response to the pandemic. President Xi Jinping told the World Health Assembly that China had acted with ‘openness, transparency and responsibility’ when the disease, which has impacted billions of people across the world, first broke out.President Xi, who had been invited to speak at the opening ceremony after the European Union-drafted resolution to push for a probe was supported by more than a 100 countries, said Beijing supported calls for a comprehensive review of the global response but felt this exercise should be carried out after the world gets a grip on the situation. The world’s immediate priority should be saving people.“China supports the idea of a comprehensive review of the global response to COVID-19 after it is brought under control to sum up experience and address deficiencies,” President Xi told the assembly, the UN global health body’s policy making body.China had previously opposed calls for such investigations from Washington and Canberra.The health assembly is expected to formally take up the resolution backed by over 120 countries tomorrow. “It is a formality now… No one is objecting to it now,” a diplomat in Geneva told Hindustan Times.President Xi’s argument at the assembly mirrored the one presented by World Health Organisation director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus after a barrage of criticism, much of it emanating from the United States in the initial days.Tedros has been blamed for backing Beijing’s narrative and showering praise on President Xi for his handling of the disease around the same time that there was growing evidence of efforts to play down the spread of the disease in January. He was seen standing with Beijing again when the United States restricted flights from China.There is no need for measures that “unnecessarily interfere with international travel and trade”, the WHO chief said on February 3.At Monday’s World Health Assembly, President Xi reciprocated, telling the 194-member body that the WHO’s contribution under Dr Tedros had been applauded by the international community.“At this crucial juncture, to support WHO is to support international cooperation and the battle for saving lives as well,” President Xi said.The draft resolution that had been pushed by Australia and the European Union had proposed an inquiry into the animal to human transmission of the Sars-CoV-2 President Xi’s comments, made during a video speech to the World Health Assembly, come as a resolution pushed by the European Union and Australia calling for a review of the origin and spread of the coronavirus disease picked up momentum.By the time the truncated virtual meet started, the 54-nation Africa Group also extended support. This includes Ethiopia, home to Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus who made history in 2017 when he was elected WHO chief.Tedros was not just the first African to hold the post but also the first WHO chief not to be a medical doctor. The former Ethiopian minister holds a masters in immunology of infectious diseases and a Doctorate of Philosophy (PhD) in community health.Tedros, who spoke minutes after President Xi, said the inquiry would come “at the earliest appropriate moment” and provide recommendations for future preparedness.“We all have lessons to learn from the pandemic. Every country and every organisation must examine its response and learn from its experience. WHO is committed to transparency, accountability and continuous improvement,” Tedros said.The review must encompass responsibility of “all actors in good faith,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/finally-china-gives-in-agrees-to-probe-covid-19-origin-who-response/story-gb3ZadVm3HrKnnCDiClaLP.html
18-05-2020||World||‘Loss of taste, smell’: UK adds core Covid-19 symptoms||The Boris Johnson government on Monday included the loss of taste and smell to the core symptoms of coronavirus after a large number of people and ENT (ear, nose, throat) doctors reported the symptoms, as the number of cases in the UK approached 2.5 lakh.Updating the symptoms list means such individuals would now be eligible for a test.As of Sunday evening, 34,636 deaths and 243,303 cases were registered across the UK, retaining it on the top of the grim list in Europe. The number of deaths in a day was the lowest at 170, as some lockdown curbs were eased in England.Health officials advised Britons that from Monday, all individuals should self-isolate if they develop a new continuous cough or fever or anosmia, which is the medical term for the loss of or a change in normal sense of smell; it can also affect sense of taste as the two are closely linked.The four chief medical officers of England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland said: “We have been closely monitoring the emerging data and evidence on Covid-19 and, after thorough consideration, we are now confident enough to recommend this new measure”.“The individual’s households should also self-isolate for 14 days as per the current guidelines and the individual should stay at home for seven days, or longer if they still have symptoms other than cough or loss of sense of smell”.According to Tim Spector, head of the department of genetic epidemiology at King’s College London, there are 50,000 to 70,000 people in the UK with coronavirus who are not being told to self-isolate, because so far only temperature and cough were considered the major symptoms.Nearly 1.5 million people have logged on to an app developed at the college that tracks a wide range of symptoms and changes, he said.Spector told BBC: “It (the app) tells us that we’ve got at least 100,000 cases at the moment of people who are infected. And this is from our data, although the NHS would underestimate that because they’re not counting all the symptoms”.“This country is missing the ball in underestimated cases but also putting people at risk, and continuing the epidemic. So we really do need to tell Public Health England to get in line with the rest of the world, and make people more aware. There’s no point telling people to be alert if they don’t know the symptoms”.Business secretary Alok Sharma announced at the daily briefing in Downing Street that the clinical trial for a vaccine at the University of Oxford is “progressing well”, with all Phase 1 participants receiving their dose on schedule earlier this week.He said: “They are now being monitored closely by the clinical trial team. The speed at which Oxford University has designed and organised these complex trials is genuinely unprecedented”.“Imperial College are also making good progress, and will be looking to move into clinical trials by mid-June, with larger scale trials planned to begin in October. So far the government has invested £47 million in the Oxford and Imperial vaccine programmes”.According to Johnson, the vaccine is a “very long way off” and may “not come to fruition”, but the government announced a £93 million investment for a new Vaccine Manufacturing and Innovation Centre to produce it on a large scale if any of the trials succeed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/loss-of-taste-smell-uk-adds-core-covid19-symptoms/story-HtUDeV0Xg3YNJAnupDGcsJ.html
18-05-2020||World||China’s coronavirus vaccine will be global public good, Xi Says||China will make its coronavirus vaccine a global public good once one is available, President Xi Jinping told the World Health Organization’s governing body.Xi’s comments come amid growing concern that countries will put national interests first in the quest for a protective shot, seen as the key to getting economies moving again. The WHO is pushing a proposal that aims to ensure broad access to treatments and vaccines while offering an appropriate reward to creators.“Covid-19 vaccine development and deployment in China, when available, will be made a global public good, which will be China’s contribution to ensuring vaccine accessibility and affordability in developing countries,” Xi said in a speech to the World Health Assembly.Among the dozens of vaccine projects under way worldwide, China has five candidates already in human trials. More will be approved next month.The country has faced rising scrutiny over its handling of the virus, especially from members of the Trump administration. White House trade adviser Peter Navarro said in a television appearance that the country sent “hundreds of thousands of Chinese on aircraft to Milan, New York and around the world to seed” it.Xi said China acted with transparency and responsibility all along, and that it provided information to the WHO and countries in the most timely fashion. China will also provide $2 billion over two years to support the fight against the pandemic, especially in developing countries, he said.Some companies involved in vaccine development have said countries that provide funding will get first dibs.AstraZeneca Plc Chief Exective Officer Pascal Soriot said the U.K. will take priority for the University of Oxford’s fast-moving effort to develop a shot. French drugmaker Sanofi’s vaccine that received funding from the U.S. will likely be used there initially, CEO Paul Hudson said last week. Sanofi said later that its vaccine would be available to everyone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-s-coronavirus-vaccine-will-be-global-public-good-xi-says/story-j5bDsvLgVjK2MdelB3mMsI.html
18-05-2020||World||EU calls for independent probe of WHO’s coronavirus pandemic response||The European Union and other countries on Monday called for an independent evaluation of the World Health Organization’s response to the coronavirus pandemic “to review experience gained and lessons learned.” The resolution has the support of more than half of WHO’s member countries and will be discussed this week at the decision-making body of the UN health agency, being held virtually this year.The proposal is intended to initiate “a stepwise process of impartial, independent and comprehensive evaluation” of WHO’s efforts to coordinate the international response to Covid-19, including the functioning of international health law and its actions within the greater UN health system. The move comes amid Australia’s call for an independent inquiry into the origins of the pandemic and WHO’s response to it — and after US President Donald Trump’s repeated accusations that WHO helped China cover up the extent of the initial Covid-19 outbreak. Trump has also called for an immediate halt to all US funding to the UN health agency.The EU resolution proposes that the independent evaluation should be initiated “at the earliest appropriate moment” and should, among other issues, examine “the actions of WHO and their timelines pertaining to the Covid-19 pandemic.” WHO announced the coronavirus outbreak to be a global health emergency on January 30, its highest level of alert. In the following weeks, WHO warned countries there was a narrowing “window of opportunity” to prevent the virus from spreading globally. WHO officials, however, repeatedly described the transmission of the virus as “limited” and said it wasn’t as transmissible as flu; experts have since said Covid-19 spreads even faster. It declared the outbreak to be a pandemic on March 11, after the virus had killed thousands globally and sparked large epidemics in South Korea, Italy, Iran and elsewhere.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-calls-for-independent-probe-of-who-s-coronavirus-pandemic-response/story-1u5LAKrZUTiQ2oTgM6QoWL.html
18-05-2020||World||Covid-19 origin under probe, WHO’s Tedros Adhanom sends Prez Xi a special invite||China on Monday it was premature to launch an investigation into the origin of the Covid-19 pandemic, hours after more than 100 countries including India and ally Russia backed an international probe into the outbreak which emerged from the central Chinese city of Wuhan late last year.Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said at the regular ministry briefing on Monday that the vast majority of countries in the world believe the pandemic is not yet over.China has been pushing back international demand for a probe, saying that the US and Australia, which has been in the forefront in demanding a probe, were politicising the issue and could hamper the fight against the pandemic.The resolution, drafted by the European Union, has been put up to the World Health Assembly (WHA), the annual meeting of the WHO. The foreign ministry statement came hours before the UN’s global health agency’s two-day virtual meet begins on Monday.The resolution does not single out China or any other country but calls for an “impartial, independent and comprehensive evaluation” of “the (WHO)-coordinated international health response to Covid-19.”“Initiate, at the earliest appropriate moment, and in consultation with Member States, 1 a stepwise process of impartial, independent and comprehensive evaluation, including using existing mechanisms, 2 as appropriate, to review experience gained and lessons learned from the WHO-coordinated international health response to COVID-19,” the draft resolution said.Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne said on Monday Australia wants the resolution to stipulate that the inquiry be “impartial, independent and comprehensive.”In a separate statement, the Chinese foreign ministry announced that President Xi Jinping will address the World Health Assembly’s opening ceremony via videolink later on Monday. President Xi had not been listed as a speaker in the schedule circulated by the WHO earlier. The foreign ministry said President Xi had been invited to speak by WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. After emerging in China, the virus had rapidly spread around world, killing more than 315,000 people and infecting at least 4.7 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/premature-says-china-on-chorus-for-probe-ahead-of-who-meet-into-covid-19-origin/story-zR7Tcmzpll9OGpCB57ZcGL.html
18-05-2020||World||Canada’s Covid-19 curve ‘planked’||The number of people recovering from Covid-19 pandemic in Canada has overtaken the number of people infected, health authorities announced on Sunday.In a statement, Canada’s Chief Public Health Officer Dr Theresa Tam pointed out that as of Sunday, there were 76,204 Covid-19 cases, including 5,702 deaths in the country. “More than 38,159 or 50 per cent of cases are now recovered,” she noted.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHowever, even as she released the positive news, she also sought continued caution, “We are all well aware of how much effort we have put in to plank the curve, and I know none of us is interested in giving up the progress we have made,” she said.The agency’s daily epidemiology summary also underscored an anomaly that appears to have occurred in Canada, with more women being impacted than men, unlike in the rest of the world. Females accounted for 55 per cent of the total cases and 53 per cent of deaths.The overall trajectory continued to be positive with no new cases being reported in six jurisdictions over the past week. Nine jurisdictions reported no new deaths in the last 24 hours. The updates provided also mentioned that “New cases continue to be reported across the country, however with a decreasing trend in daily reported cases observed.” The majority of cases (85%) and deaths (94%) continue to be reported from the provinces of Quebec and Ontario, it pointed out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-s-covid-19-curve-planked/story-71hMbixCSI5I5UYR5OQY1O.html
18-05-2020||World||Japan braces for worst postwar slump as pandemic tips economy into recession||Japan’s economy slipped into recession for the first time in 4-1/2 years in the last quarter, putting the nation on course for its deepest postwar slump as the coronavirus crisis ravages businesses and consumers.Monday’s first-quarter GDP data underlined the broadening impact of the outbreak, with exports plunging the most since the devastating March 2011 earthquake as global lockdowns and supply chain disruptions hit shipments of Japanese goods.Click here for full coronavirus coverageAnalysts warn of an even bleaker picture for the current quarter as consumption crumbled after the government in April requested citizens to stay home and businesses to close, intensifying the challenge for policymakers battling a once-in-a-century pandemic.“It’s near certainty the economy suffered an even deeper decline in the current quarter,” said Yuichi Kodama, chief economist at Meiji Yasuda Research Institute. “Japan has entered a full-blown recession.”The world’s third-largest economy contracted an annualised 3.4% in the first quarter, preliminary official gross domestic product (GDP) data showed, less than a median market forecast for a 4.6% drop.The slump came on top of an even steeper 7.3% fall in the October-December period, with the consecutive quarters of contraction meeting the technical definition of a recession. Japan last suffered recession in the second half of 2015.The coronavirus, which first emerged in China late last year, has ravaged the global economy as many nations went into strict lockdowns to curb the outbreak that has so far killed over 310,000 people worldwide. The pandemic has been massively disruptive on supply chains and businesses, particularly in trade-reliant nations such as Japan. Indeed, the fallout of the virus on corporate Japan was telling with exports diving 6.0% in the first quarter, the biggest decline since April-June 2011.“Exports to China began to fall in February, followed by a wave of slumping shipments to Europe and the United States,” said Takeshi Minami, chief economist at Norinchukin Research Institute.“Exports were also hurt by slumping inbound tourism,” which counts as a drop in non-residents’ purchases of Japanese services, he said.Deeper slump, slower recoveryThe shakeout in global trade was underlined in recent March data, with exports shrinking the most in nearly four years due to plunging U.S.-bound shipments.Even the nation’s major globe-trotting manufacturers weren’t spared the pandemic’s sweeping impact.Toyota Motor Corp has said it will cut domestic vehicle production by 122,000 units in June and expects an 80% drop in full-year operating profit.The gloom in Japan is expected to deepen over coming months.Analysts polled by Reuters estimate Japan’s economy will shrink an annualised 22.0% in the current quarter, which would be a record decline, with pressure on output intensifying after Prime Minister Shinzo Abe in April declared a nationwide state of emergency amid the widening pandemic.The emergency was lifted for most regions on Thursday, but remained in effect for some big cities including Tokyo. Japan has so far reported 16,337 coronavirus cases and 756 deaths.Private consumption, which accounts for more than half of Japan’s $5 trillion economy, slipped 0.7% in January-March, less than a market forecast for a 1.6% drop, as robust demand for daily necessities partially offset the impact on services spending.All the same, it marked the second straight quarter of decline, as households endured the double-whammy of the coronavirus and a sales tax hike to 10% from 8% in October last year.Capital expenditure fell 0.5% in the first quarter after plummeting 4.8% in October-December last year, the GDP data showed, suggesting that uncertainty over the outlook is discouraging companies from boosting spending.Taken together, domestic demand knocked 0.7 percentage point off GDP growth, while external demand shed 0.2 point.All of this has put a strain on the labour market. The jobless rate in March rose to its highest in a year, while job availability slipped to a more than three-year low.The government has already announced a record $1.1 trillion stimulus package, and the Bank of Japan expanded stimulus for the second straight month in April. Abe has pledged a second supplementary budget later this month to fund fresh spending measures to cushion the economic blow from the outbreak.Still, many analysts warn that government support will come too little, too late.“As always in Japan, the implementation is very slow. It will take the later half of the second quarter (and) the third quarter” for government stimulus to kick in, said Martin Schulz, chief economist at Fujitsu.“The recovery will be slower than many are hoping for ... To recover from this crisis, it will take about two years at least.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-braces-for-worst-postwar-slump-as-pandemic-tips-economy-into-recession/story-1eXGsGHzWcFZ8AjAfcSdIP.html
18-05-2020||World||What did eight weeks and $3 trillion buy the Covid-19 in the fight against coronavirus?||Unemployment checks are flowing, $490 billion has been shipped to small businesses, and the US Federal Reserve has put about $2.5 trillion and counting behind domestic and global markets. Fears of overwhelmed hospitals and millions of US deaths from the new coronavirus have diminished, if not disappeared.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageYet two months into the United States’ fight against the most severe pandemic to arise in the age of globalization, neither the health nor the economic war has been won. Many analysts fear the country has at best fought back worst-case outcomes. For every community where case loads are declining, other hotspots arise and fester; for states like Wisconsin where bars are open and crowded, there are others such as Maryland that remain under strict limits. There is no universal, uniform testing plan to reveal what is happening to public health in any of those communities. Between 1,000 and 2,000 people a day continue to die from the Covid-19 disease in the United States, and between 20,000 and 25,000 are identified as infected.If there is consensus on any point, it is that the struggle toward normal social and economic life will take much more time, effort and money than at first thought. The risks of a years-long economic Depression have risen; fact-driven officials have become increasingly sober in their outlook; and the coming weeks and coming set of choices have emerged as critical to the future. Faced with two distinct paths - a cavalier acceptance of the mass deaths that would be needed for “herd immunity” or the truly strict lockdown needed to extinguish the virus - “we are not on either route,” Harvard University economist James Stock, among the first to model the health and economic tradeoffs the country faces, said last week.That means no clear end in sight to the economic and health pain. “I am really concerned we are just going to hang out. We will have reopened across the board, not in a smart way ... and we will have months and months of 15% or 20% unemployment,” Stock said. “It is hard to state how damaging that will be.” Taking stockTreasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Fed chair Jerome Powell will appear via a remote internet feed before the Senate Banking committee on Tuesday to provide the first quarterly update on implementation of the CARES Act, which along with a follow up bill formed the signature $2.9 trillion legislative response to the pandemic. They will likely face detailed questions about their efforts after a rocky few months. The Paycheck Protection Program in particular was originally overwhelmed with applicants and criticized for hundreds of loans doled out to publicly traded companies. Yet, now two months in, a replenished program still has $120 billion in funding available - money on the table that analysts at TD Securities suggest people have refused to pick up because of confusion about the terms.The hearing is also likely to be a platform for Democrats to coax Mnuchin and Powell toward acknowledging that more must be done - Powell said so directly in an appearance last week - and for Republicans arguing against quick new action. Death projections down, testing upThe lockdowns and money have had an impact on the disease’s spread, as the postponement of sporting events and other mass gatherings, and restaurant and store closings curbed the spread of a virus that some early estimates saw killing as many as 2 million Americans.Deaths as of Saturday stood at around 87,000 and are expected to pass 135,000 by early August.After federal government missteps and delays, testing has ramped up to 1.5 to 2 million tests a day, still less than half what health experts say the country needs. Strict lockdowns slowed the rate of infection in the hardest-hit areas, “flattening the curve” so hospitals could retrain nurses, cobble together donations of personal protective equipment such masks, gloves and gowns, and were spared from the direst predictions about intensive care shortages.However, the fight against the coronavirus may still be in its initial stages in more than a dozen US states, where case numbers continue to rise.And community agencies are noting increases in cases of domestic violence and suicide attempts after weeks of home confinement. Trillions more spending ahead?At its passage in late March the CARES Act was regarded as a major and perhaps sufficient prop to get the US economy through a dilemma. Fighting the spread of the virus came with a massive economic hit as stores closed, transportation networks scaled back, and tens of millions of people lost jobs or revenue at their businesses. Facing a decline not seen since the Great Depression of the 1930s, the main goal of the bill was to replace that lost income with checks to individuals and loans to small businesses that are designed to be forgiven. JPMorgan economist Michael Feroli estimated recently that the loans and transfer payments under the act turned what would have been an annualized blow to income of nearly 60% from April through June into an annualized decline of 15% - sharp, but far more manageable. GDP in the second quarter, however, will drop 40% on an annualized basis. The budget deficit this fiscal year is expected to nearly quadruple to $3.7 trillion. Some of the deadlines in the CARES Act are approaching. The small business loans were meant to cover eight weeks of payroll, a period that has already lapsed for companies that closed in mid-March, when President Trump issued a national emergency declaration. The enhanced $600 per week unemployment benefit expires at the end of July.The House on Friday passed a new $3 trillion CARES Act to replenish some funding, but it is unclear whether the Republican-led Senate will take it up. Weeks after a V-shaped economic recovery was predicted in March, most economists and health officials have a darker message.  “It is quite possible this thing will stay at how ever many deaths it is a day indefinitely, just wobbling up and down a little bit as epidemics move to different places around the country,” said economist and Princeton University professor Angus Deaton. “The sort of social distancing we are prepared to put up with is not going to do very much.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/what-did-eight-weeks-and-3-trillion-buy-the-covid-19-in-the-fight-against-coronavirus/story-XR8EgPTcfMGRg3RCkS8H7O.html
18-05-2020||World||United States to deport 161 Indian nationals this week||The United States this week will deport 161 Indian nationals, most of whom had entered the country from its southern border with Mexico and have exhausted all legal options. A special chartered flight will take them to Punjab’s Amritsar. Among those on the list to be deported, the maximum 76 are from Haryana, followed by 56 from Punjab; 12 from Gujarat; five from Uttar Pradesh; four from Maharashtra ; two each from Kerala, Telengana and Tamil Nadu; and each from Andhra Pradesh and Goa. According to Satnam Singh Chahal, executive director, North American Punjabi Association (NAPA), they are from among the 1,739 Indians languishing in 95 jails across the US. They were arrested by the Immigration and Customs Enforcement or ICE while trying to enter the United States illegally. According to an ICE report, the US deported 611 Indian nationals in 2018, which rose over two-and-a-half times to 1,616 in 2019. NAPA said among the 161 to be deported to India, three are women. The youngest of them are two 19-year-old youths from Haryana.“The fate of the remaining Indians languishing in the US jails is still unknown,” Chahal said. Though there is no data to show from which Indian states those languishing in the US jails came, most of them are believed to be from North India. Most detainees had asked for an asylum, claiming that they experienced violence or persecution in their home country. Over the past a few years, US judges did not buy their argument and dismissed their applications. Chahal, who has been working among them for years, alleged that there is a nexus of human traffickers and officials in north India, especially Punjab, who encourage young people to leave their homes and illegally enter the US. These middlemen and agents charge Rs 35-50 lakh from each individual. In a statement, Chahal urged the Punjab government and the Centre to take action against illegal agents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/united-states-to-deport-161-indian-nationals-this-week/story-5W0BrjdMWeltNfQa1srHBO.html
18-05-2020||World||‘Grossly incompetent’: Trump criticises ex-prez Obama after criticism over Covid-19||US President Donald Trump on Sunday called his predecessor Barak Obama a ‘grossly incompetent president’. The Trump’s reaction came after Obama on Saturday criticised the US authorities’ response to the coronavirus outbreak. “He (Obama) was an incompetent president. That’s all I can say. Grossly incompetent,” Trump told reporters at the White House on his arrival from Camp David. Trump was responding to a question on the virtual commencement address by Obama a day earlier. In his address to college graduates, Obama had said that the COVID-19 pandemic has exposed the American leadership. “More than anything, this pandemic has fully, finally torn back the curtain on the idea that so many of the folks in charge know what they’re doing,” Obama said without naming officials.  “A lot of them aren’t even pretending to be in charge,” he added. There was no immediate response from the office of the former president on the remarks made by Trump.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/grossly-incompetent-trump-criticises-predecessor-obama-after-criticism-over-covid-19/story-bDGBYqdrhT460mvi7JnGrJ.html
18-05-2020||World||UK coronavirus death toll rises by 170, lowest increase since March||The number of people who have died in the United Kingdom after testing positive for Covid-19 rose by 170 to 34,636, business minister Alok Sharma said on Sunday, the lowest increase in the official death toll since March 24.The increase reported on Sunday was sharply down from the 468 rise in deaths reported 24 hours earlier and the lowest since Britain brought in a lockdown to curb the spread of the virus on March 23.However, at weekends the number of recorded deaths has been lower than the number reported during the week, and health officials in England also said its Covid Patient Notification System had not operated for a while on Saturday. “The consequences of this situation may therefore be reflected in the number of deaths reported today,” NHS England said.The rise in the number of deaths in Britain from the virus peaked at 1,172 on April 21 according to official data and has been falling steadily since then. Other government statistics which include deaths due to suspected cases indicate that Britain’s toll is over 40,000.Sharma said 243,303 people in Britain had so far tested positive for the virus, an increase of 3,142 since Saturday.Sharma also said that Oxford University and drug maker AstraZeneca had struck a global licensing deal for a vaccine that Oxford scientists were working on, one of the front runners in the global race to provide protection against the new coronavirus causing the Covid-19 pandemic.If the vaccine proves successful, AstraZeneca will mass produce 100 million doses with up to 30 million doses available for people in the United Kingdom by September.“The UK will be first to get access,” Sharma said, adding that the government was providing an additional 84 million pounds ($101.67 million) in funding to British researchers working on potential vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-coronavirus-death-toll-rises-by-170-lowest-increase-since-march/story-RkdBLYk45em3TWwoEWxtEN.html
18-05-2020||World||Pompeo welcomes Afghan power-sharing deal, chides leaders for lost time||US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Sunday welcomed a power-sharing deal to end a months-long political stalemate in Afghanistan, but chided President Ashraf Ghani and his rival Abdullah Abdullah for taking so long.“Secretary Pompeo noted that he regretted the time lost during the political impasse,” State Department spokeswoman Morgan Ortagus said in a statement. “He reiterated that the priority for the United States remains a political settlement to end the conflict and welcomed the commitment by the two leaders to act immediately in support of prompt entry into intra-Afghan negotiations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pompeo-welcomes-afghan-power-sharing-deal-chides-leaders-for-lost-time/story-V0sJbLMXDacvLkVPG5gs1K.html
18-05-2020||World||Afghan president and rival strike power-sharing deal after months of feuding||Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and his rival Abdullah Abdullah signed a power-sharing deal to end a months-long political stalemate, Ghani’s spokesman said on Sunday, a step that could smooth efforts to end the country’s long-running war.Abdullah had disputed the results of an election in September and announced the formation of a parallel government earlier this year, undermining Ghani’s administration at a time when the United States was trying to advance a peace process with the Taliban to end the 19-year Afghan war. “Today is a historic day for our dear Afghanistan. Afghans have proven that they are committed to their national interests with common thinking,” Ghani said during the signing ceremony.“In the coming days, we hope that with unity and cooperation, we will be able to provide the ground for a ceasefire and lasting peace,” he added.Discussions over the final sticking points including the allocation of some key posts had been underway throughout the day, three sources said.Abdullah had wanted to control a major portfolio such as finance or foreign affairs, and while Ghani has not agreed to this, he could offer control of the interior ministry, sources said shortly before the deal was signed. It was not immediately clear which ministries each camp controlled after the agreement was struck.Washington has been frustrated by the growing impasse between the two men, even after Secretary of State Mike Pompeo travelled to Kabul in March to mediate. It had announced a plan to cut $1 billion in aid because the men could not agree.Pompeo welcomed the agreement but chided Ghani and Abdullah for taking so long. He said the United States looked forward to prompt intra-Afghan talks and a political settlement.“Secretary Pompeo noted that he regretted the time lost during the political impasse,” State Department spokeswoman Morgan Ortagus said in a statement.It was not clear whether Sunday’s agreement would result in the aid commitment being reinstated. Afghanistan is facing growing fiscal pressures, with tax revenues falling and foreign aid pledges due this year expected to shrink.“Please reconsider your potential $1 billion aid cut. In fact, since we have the COVID-19 pandemic, add more to it. Thank you,” Shamroz Khan Masjidi, a spokesman for the ministry of finance said on Twitter, tagging the Secretary of State.The State Department did not immediately comment on the aid cut.NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg also welcomed the deal and called on the Taliban to reduce violence and for all sides to work towards peace.Officials say a deal between Ghani and Abdullah is crucial to launching peace talks, as Abdullah’s camp represents much of the country’s north-west.But the talks face a number of stark challenges, as violence in the country increases. An attack on a Kabul maternity ward this week prompted Ghani to switch the military to an “offensive” stance against insurgent groups.The Taliban has denied involvement in the attack, but the government has remained sceptical and angry at ongoing Taliban attacks against the Afghan military, fraying the momentum for peace talks, which were due to start in March.US Special Envoy Zalmay Khalilzad said on Friday that a new date for intra-Afghan peace talks was under discussion, and that he would soon travel to the region and try to encourage a reduction in violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-president-and-rival-strike-power-sharing-deal-after-months-of-feuding/story-DZxsn694gAsDt3KUdJyC9J.html
18-05-2020||World||US economy may begin to recover by summer, will likely be slow: Federal Reserve Chairman||Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell expressed optimism Sunday that the U.S. economy can begin to recover from a devastating recession in the second half of the year, assuming the coronavirus doesn’t erupt in a second wave. But he suggested that a full recovery won’t likely be possible before the arrival of a vaccine.In an interview with CBS’s “60 Minutes,” Powell noted that the economy was fundamentally healthy before the virus struck suddenly and forced widespread business shutdowns and tens of millions of layoffs. Once the outbreak has been contained, he said, the economy should be able to rebound “substantially.”Powell offered an overall positive message while warning that it would take much longer for the economy to regain its health than it took for it to collapse with stunning speed.“In the long run, and even in the medium run,” the chairman said, “you wouldn’t want to bet against the American economy. This economy will recover. And that means people will go back to work. Unemployment will get back down. We’ll get through this.”Powell pointed out that the downturn wasn’t a result of deep-seated financial instabilities, like the housing meltdown and the excessive risk-taking among banks that ignited the Great Recession. Rather, it resulted from an external event — a pandemic — that required a shutdown of the economy. That may mean, he said, that “we can get back to a healthy economy fairly quickly.”In the meantime, though, American workers are enduring their worst crisis in decades. More than 36 million people have applied for unemployment benefits in the two months since the coronavirus first forced businesses to close down and shrink their workforces. The unemployment rate, at 14.7%, is the highest since the Great Depression, and is widely expected to go much higher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-economy-may-begin-to-recover-by-summer-will-likely-be-slow-federal-reserve-chairman/story-3DZqC6oYBTKPhLjDHFYgjO.html
18-05-2020||World||One dead after Canadian jet crashes during flyover to boost morale during Covid-19||A Canadian acrobatic jet crashed into a British Columbia neighborhood Sunday during a flyover intended to boost morale during the pandemic, killing one crew member, seriously injuring another and setting a house on fire. Video appeared to show at least one person ejecting.The crash left debris scattered across the neighborhood near the airport in the city of Kamloops, 260 miles (418 kilometers) northeast of Vancouver. Canada’s defense department said emergency crews were responding. The Snowbirds are Canada’s equivalent of the U.S. Air Force Thunderbirds or U.S. Navy’s Blue Angels.“It is with heavy hearts that we announce that one member of the CF Snowbirds team has died and one has sustained serious injuries,” The Royal Canadian Air Force said in a tweet.Rose Miller lives directly across the street from where the plane hit. She’d watched the Snowbirds arrive on Saturday, and she went to her front window when she heard the roar of jet engines.Miller said she heard a loud bang and wondered whether it might be a sonic boom. Then she watched the plane smash onto the ground.“It looked to me like it was mostly on the road, but it just exploded. It went everywhere,” she said. “In fact, I got a big, huge piece in my backyard. The cops said it was the ejection seat.”Miller said a couple in their early 70s lives in the home. Both are OK, she said, noting that she’d spoken with them after they were evacuated to a nearby street. The woman had been in the basement while the man was behind the house.Miller said section of roof on a home on a nearby street has been covered up.Video posted to Twitter by 6:10 a.m. in Kamloops appears to show two Snowbirds taking off from what is believed to have been Kamloops Airport. One of the aircraft subsequently climbed into the sky before rolling over and plunging to the ground. The video appears to show at least one person ejecting from the plane before it disappears behind a stand of trees and an explosion is heard.“Our number one priority at this time is determining the status of our personnel, the community and supporting emergency personnel. When appropriate, more information will be made available,” the Department of National Defense said in a statement.The Royal Canadian Mounted Police said the cause of the crash is under investigation.Kenny Hinds, who lives in a house seven doors down from the crash site, said it looked like the living room of the house where the crash occurred was on fire.“I just started running down the street. And I got there maybe a minute after it crashed and there was a couple of residents that had their hoses out and they were trying to put the flames out because it hit a house,” he said. “It looked like most of it landed in the front yard, but maybe a wing or something went through the roof perhaps.”Hinds had been watching the aircraft after hearing them take off, and said he was able to see the crash and saw “the Snowbird going straight down.”“I saw what looked like a parachute about, say, 20 feet over the house, and it disappeared from sight, and the parachute hadn’t fully deployed yet — it was still sort of straight up and down,” he said.Operation Inspiration started in Nova Scotia earlier this month and features the team’s signature nine-jet formation. It was aimed at boosting morale amid the pandemic.Marni Capostinsky said she lives across the street from the crash site and was out on the deck when she heard the plane getting closer.“We ran out under the cover to look and saw something black coming towards us, everyone hit the deck it was so loud,” she said.Sunday’s crash follows the downing of another Snowbird in the U.S. state of Georgia last October, where the team was scheduled to perform in an air show. Capt. Kevin Domon-Grenier sustained minor injuries when he ejected from the plane, which crashed into a farmer’s field. No one else was hurt.The Snowbirds have performed at airshows across Canada and the U.S. for decades and are considered a key tool for raising awareness about — and recruiting for — the air force. Eleven aircraft are used during shows, with nine flying and two kept as spares.The air force obtained its Tutor jets in 1963 and has used them in air demonstrations since 1971. Prior to Sunday’s crash, seven pilots and one passenger had been killed and several aircraft had been lost over the course of the Snowbirds’ history.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/one-dead-after-canadian-jet-crashes-during-flyover-to-boost-morale-during-covid-19/story-pgRxIArW47HXXcak2MiY1K.html
18-05-2020||World||Chinese ambassador to Israel found dead in home: Officials||The Chinese ambassador to Israel was found dead in his home north of Tel Aviv on Sunday, Israel’s Foreign Ministry said.Israeli Police Spokesman Micky Rosenfeld said the ambassador’s death was believed to be from natural causes.Du Wei, 58, was appointed envoy in February in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic. He previously served as China’s envoy to Ukraine. He was found dead at the ambassador’s official residence in Herzliya.He is survived by a wife and son, both of whom were not in Israel.Israel enjoys good relations with China. Bilateral trade has grown in recent years, as have American concerns over Chinese investment, and concerns over spying on one of its key regional allies.The ambassador’s death came just two days after he condemned comments by visiting U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, who denounced Chinese investments in Israel and accused China of hiding information about the coronavirus outbreak.Pompeo told Hebrew-language daily Israel Hayom that the U.S. and Israel have an opportunity to “build upon our relationship rather than give the Chinese Community Party the opportunity to undermine it.”The Chinese Embassy published an op-ed in the Jerusalem Post on Thursday rebuffing Pompeo’s claims that China was responsible for the outbreak and American concerns about Chinese investment in Israel.“We trust that the Jewish friends are not only able to defeat the coronavirus but also the ‘political virus,’ and choose the course of action that best serves its interests,” the embassy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-ambassador-to-israel-found-dead-in-home-officials/story-x5H1JoT8MtrlHyL4ZTTmNJ.html
18-05-2020||World||New York City widens testing eligibility as social distancing hits snag||New York City residents who flouted social distancing restrictions for a night on the town got the mayor’s wrath Sunday. The city’s embattled health commissioner is staying on the job. Gov. Andrew Cuomo played the part of a model patient, getting swabbed for coronavirus on live TV as he announced all people experiencing flu-like symptoms are now eligible for testing.Meanwhile, two more state regions — Western New York and the Capital District — have met criteria to move into the first phase of reopening but still need to hire several hundred more people for contact tracing programs.In the first phase, construction, agriculture, forestry, fishing, hunting, manufacturing and wholesale trade businesses are allowed to reopen and retail stores can provide curbside or in-store pickup or drop-off.Here are the latest coronavirus-related developments in New York:SATURDAY NIGHT FERVORNew York City Mayor Bill de Blasio admonished people seen crowding outside bars Saturday night — many with drinks in hand but no masks on their faces — for putting lives in danger. Officials may shut down establishments that break distancing rules, de Blasio said.City bars and restaurants have been restricted to takeout and delivery since mid-March, when coronavirus cases started to soar, but some in Manhattan were allowing people to dine and drink inside on Saturday.“We’re not going to tolerate people starting to congregate. It’s as simple as that,” de Blasio said. “If we have to shut places down, we will.”After a rash of violent social distancing arrests involving people of color, the city this week eased distancing enforcement by no longer having police break up small groups of people or confront citizens failing to wear a mask.As the weather heats up, though, more and more New Yorkers are flocking to public spaces and familiar haunts for a sense of normalcy after spending most of the last two months cooped up inside — and not always policing themselves.Parks, boardwalks and beaches attracted big crowds on Saturday, though city beaches aren’t officially open and won’t be for Memorial Day weekend.Other beaches in the region will be open for the holiday, but de Blasio said opening the city’s strands “is not the right thing to do in the epicenter of this crisis.”The city’s beaches could be closed off completely to public access if people don’t follow social distancing rules, he said. Fences being installed at entrances could be rolled out if beaches — meant now only for nearby residents to exercise — get overcrowded or people violate swimming bans, he said.De Blasio said beaches could open for wider use sometime in the summer, with lifeguard training over the next few weeks for a possible return to duty.GLUT OF TESTING CAPACITYAll New Yorkers experiencing flu-like symptoms or other coronavirus signs, such as dry cough or chest pains, are now eligible to be tested, along with people who returning to work as part of phased reopenings, Cuomo said Sunday.The state is expanding eligibility as it deals with a surplus of testing capacity. Drive-thru and walk-in testing sites are performing about one-third of the 15,000 tests they’re capable of each day, Cuomo said.An agreement with CVS will allow samples to be collected at more than 60 of the chain’s pharmacies across the state, Cuomo said. Testing in New York City is being expanded to 123 CityMD walk-in clinics.De Blasio also made an urgent appeal Sunday for blood donations, saying supplies have dwindled to about two days’ worth because of blood drive cancellations, which could mean postponing some surgeries.HEALTH CHIEF TO STAYDe Blasio is standing by his health commissioner after a report she used crass language in a March phone call with a top police commander about supplies of protective face masks. Several police unions and a congressman called for Dr. Oxiris Barbot’s firing.Barbot has been absent from de Blasio’s recent news conferences and her department was bypassed last week in favor of the city’s public hospital system to run a contact tracing program, fueling questions about a possible rift.De Blasio said Sunday that he has spoken with Barbot “to clear the air on some of the recent issues” and that she would remain in the role she’s held since 2018.“We’re going to move forward together,” de Blasio said.Barbot caught heat this week for a previously unreported clash with NYPD Chief of Department Terence Monahan, who wanted more masks for officers.The New York Post, citing an anonymous source, reported Wednesday that Barbot retorted, “I don’t give two rats’ asses about your cops.” The newspaper didn’t say what Monahan said to prompt that response.A health department spokesman said Thursday that Barbot apologized to the chief for her contribution to “a heated exchange between the two where things were said out of frustration, but no harm was wished on anyone.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-york-city-widens-testing-eligibility-as-social-distancing-hits-snag/story-9l2pWR9jyieAbXWzCvEh9K.html
18-05-2020||World||13 hurt in Louisiana memorial service shooting, no casualty||Thirteen people were shot Saturday night as a large group gathered in a Louisiana city for an impromptu memorial service for a man whose body was found earlier this month, authorities said.No one was killed, but one person was in critical condition after the 9:15 p.m. shooting in Bogalusa, police said.The crowd was gathered in a vacant lot to remember Dominique James, who was missing for several days before being found dead May 8 inside his vehicle in woods by officers in a helicopter, investigators said.“The best we can tell is a car drove by and shots were fired and it was pure chaos from there,” Bogalusa Police Maj. Troy Tervalon told The Associated Press.Police haven’t had a witness come forward to give them a better description of the shooting and have made no arrests, Tervalon said.James’ family had asked Bogalusa officials if they could have a regular memorial service for James, but were turned down because of stay-at-home orders with COVID-19, Tervalon said.The gathering of at least 150 people Saturday night were mostly friends, Tervalon said.The scene was so chaotic, with wounded people being taken to several different hospitals that investigators haven’t been able to find and interview all the wounded people, Tervalon said.James was last heard from heading to an unknown location to pick up an all-terrain vehicle on May 2, police said.His death is considered a homicide, but Tervalon said he didn’t want to release any additional details. No arrests have been made in that case.Bogalusa is a city of about 12,000 people and is 70 miles (113 kilometers) northeast of New Orleans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/13-hurt-in-louisiana-memorial-service-shooting-no-casualty/story-vi4L5oLvjR2zLCASJ8F4bJ.html
18-05-2020||India||New Delhi building ‘illegal’ defence facilities in Galwan Valley, says Beijing||China on Monday accused India of building “illegal” defence facilities in the Galwan Valley region of the disputed Aksai Chin area, which is controlled by Beijing but claimed by New Delhi.Chinese border troops enhanced control measures in the area, a state media report said quoting an anonymous military source.The latest round of conflict comes days after Indian and Chinese soldiers clashed at a remote site near the Sikkim border, which left troops on both sides injured.The nationalistic tabloid published the report on Monday about the developments in the Galwan region.India and China have an unresolved border dispute that has cast a shadow on ties for decades.Protracted rounds of negotiations have failed to resolve the 3,488km long border dispute between the two neighbours.Troops from the two countries had clashed at the Galwan Valley region ahead of the 1962 war.Neither the Chinese foreign or defence ministries had commented on the latest incident until Monday evening.“In a resolute response to India’s recent, illegal construction of defence facilities across the border into Chinese territory in the Galwan Valley region, Chinese border defence troops have made the necessary moves and enhanced control measures,” the report said, quoting a Chinese military source.China says the area is located in the Hotan prefecture of the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region (XUAR).“Since early May, India has been crossing the boundary line in the Galwan Valley region and entering Chinese territory. The Indian-side built defence fortifications and obstacles to disrupt Chinese border defence troops’ normal patrol activities, purposefully instigated conflicts and attempted to unilaterally change the current border control situation,” the report said.The report said the region belongs to China.“The Galwan Valley region is Chinese territory, and the local border control situation was very clear. The actions by the Indian side have seriously violated China and India’s agreements on border issues, violated China’s territorial sovereignty and harmed military relations between the two countries, according to the source”.“…China’s border defence troops have taken necessary measures to strengthen an on-the-spot response and control of border areas, resolutely safeguarding China’s sovereignty and security and maintaining peace and stability in border areas”.The report added that troops from both sides were in contact with each other about the current situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-delhi-building-illegal-defence-facilities-in-galwan-valley-says-beijing/story-2Yk7GVK8oSEJOaBv6WUJ2M.html
18-05-2020||India||France to help Indians begin virtual classes||France said on Monday it is exploring novel ways to maintain cooperation with India amid the Covid-19 crisis, especially in education, and has augmented the proportion of scholarships for this academic year by 50% or ₹10 crore. The efforts are focused on maintaining people-to-people exchanges despite the lockdown and suspension of events. France also intends to turn the Covid-19 crisis into an opportunity to boost partnerships in education, research and culture.France is fully geared to enable the start of the academic year for new students through virtual classrooms, if necessary. Authorities are hoping students will be able to join their classes in France in autumn, if not September.“France has also augmented its proportion of scholarships by 50%—equivalent to ₹10 crore—for this academic year. These scholarships will be awarded regardless of whether a student starts the semester in India or France,” a statement from the French embassy read.French ambassador Emmanuel Lenain said: “The strategic partnership between India and France is nurtured through strong people-to-people ties. As France and India gradually emerge from their lockdowns, their exchanges will serve as building blocks for a new world and a common future.”Trusted global scientific collaboration is the need of the hour since no country can achieve a breakthrough alone in the Covid-19 crisis, he said. “Our country recognises that education will play a critical role in shaping a post-pandemic world, and thus reiterates that Indian students and researchers are welcome in France,” he added.Notwithstanding logistical and planning challenges, France will continue to welcome Indian students for higher studies. France has taken care of its foreign students on an equal footing with their French counterparts, ensuring their safety and well-being through its social and public healthcare system. Visas and scholarships were extended, where necessary, amid the Covid-19 crisis. The French Embassy will also organise a virtual version of its biannual “Choose France Tour” at the end of September for the intake of students for the 2021 academic session. This will enable more French institutions to interact with students from all over India.The French government is also committed to the National Plan for Open Science, and the third edition of the Indo-French Knowledge Summit is scheduled in Pune in 2021 to bring health and the environment into greater focus.French network programmes are adapting to the situation arising from the Covid-19 pandemic, and Alliance Française centres in more than 13 Indian cities have arranged online classes during the lockdown. This has ensured continuity in French language lessons for more than 31,000 students.The statement said France remains one of the most affordable destinations for higher education, with many institutions boasting some of the highest global standards and offering more than 1,500 courses taught in English. Business and engineering programmes are the most sought after, though France has courses in niche areas as well.The latest global rankings have shown four of the six best animation schools of the world are in France, including Rubika, which has a campus in Pune. On the cinematic front, while the Cannes festival will be missed, a film market will be held online in June and there will be online professional meetings for the film industry. “With more and more streaming platforms, there is a great potential for Indo-French collaborations and exchanges,” the statement read.The French embassy is continuing collaborations with Indian partners, such as the launch of the Serendipity Arles grant that provides opportunities for artists from South Asia to participate in the Arles Photography Festival next year. The Assises Internationales du Roman/Villa Gillet in Lyon recently saw the virtual participation of Indian writers. India will also be the guest of honour at the 2021 Paris Book Fair, for which preparations are underway. The French Institute in India, through its #ifionlineprogramme, is bringing France to Indian homes through films, documentaries, museum visits, online training, and dance and music performances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/france-to-help-indians-begin-virtual-classes/story-Qpy9U7NIjRISVDUNuxnP3L.html
18-05-2020||India||Rajasthan man rapes minor daughter, kills her with help of wife: Cops||A 16-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her father in Rajasthan’s Alwar and on finding out about her pregnancy, the accused killed her with the help of his wife, police said on Monday. The accused, a resident of Neemrana town in Alwar, has been arrested. The matter came to light when the elder sister and brother-in-law of the minor secretly informed the Rajasthan State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (RSCPCR).Amandeep Kapoor, superintendent of police(SP), Bhiwadi, said that the girl was killed on May 10. “The accused allegedly came to know that the girl has got pregnant after which he, along with his wife, strangulated her to death on May 10 and the next day performed her funeral so that nobody doubted them. But the sister and the brother-in-law of the deceased informed the RSCPCR through a letter” said Kapoor.The RSCPCR sought a factual report of the incident after which police investigated the matter. “We are yet to find out whether she was pregnant or not? We have collected samples from the crematorium and have sent it to forensics for examination. The couple has been arrested and has been sent to judicial custody,” added Kapoor.Further investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-man-rapes-minor-daughter-kills-her-with-help-of-wife-cops/story-8g1qBuoAaR0Bm81ApmFKpJ.html
18-05-2020||India||Man beats wife to death with rolling pin in front of kids||New Delhi: A man beat his 32-year-old wife to death with a rolling pin in front of their four children in East Delhi’s Harsh Vihar on Sunday afternoon after a domestic quarrel, the police said on Monday.The suspect , identified by his first name as Aftaab, 35, escaped from the scene after the murder. The four children , between the ages of three and eight years, sat with the body for nearly five hours before one of them walked over to their grandmother’s home some lanes away and informed her about the killing.The police found the murder weapon next to the woman’s body. The suspect remains on the run.The alleged killer worked odd jobs for a living. “His first wife had left him a few years ago. Their two children lived with him,” said Ved Prakash Surya, deputy commissioner of police (north-east).About a year ago, Aftaab married Sayema, whose husband had died in a road accident. “Sayema had got lakhs of rupees as compensation after her husband’s death. When she got married to Aftaab, she brought her two children from her first husband to live with him and his two children,” said another senior police officer, who didn’t want to be identified.But the couple would allegedly fight often. “Aftaab suspected Sayema of having an affair. He was also a drunkard and would keep pestering his wife to give him money from the compensation amount. If she refused, he would use the alleged affair as an excuse to beat her up,” said the officer.Aftaab had allegedly beaten up Sayema on Saturday as well. “She had complained to her mother, who lives in another lane of the same neighbourhood, but it had no impact on Aftaab,” said the officer.Around 8 am on Sunday, the couple quarrelled again. “He wanted to go out and buy alcohol. But Sayema refused to give him any money. So he accused her of having an affair and began beating her up,” the officer said.He then picked up the rolling pin from the kitchen and beat her. “Once she fell unconscious, Aftaab banged her head against the wall, picked up some money from the safe and escaped,” said the officer.The four children tried to intervene, but were allegedly pushed away. “The children stayed with the woman’s body from 8am to 1pm. When she didn’t respond, one of them walked to their grandmother’s home and called her,” The officer said.The police were informed and they moved the body to the mortuary of GTB Hospital. “We have registered a case of murder and are searching for Aftaab,” said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-beats-wife-to-death-with-rolling-pin-in-front-of-kids/story-rTA4Oe5lf2cIb6UsPp3uhL.html
18-05-2020||India||Delhi’s Covid-19 case tally crosses 10,000 mark||With 299 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) being reported in Delhi on Monday, the state’s tally crossed the 10,000 mark within two-and-a-half months of the first case being detected on March 2. Delhi has now reported 10,054 Covid-19 cases and 160 deaths, with 12 deaths recorded in the daily health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Monday. This puts the mortality rate of Covid-19 in Delhi at 1.6%, which is roughly half the national average of 3.09%.Even with the three-member death audit committee adding backlog of deaths to the cumulative total after reviewing hospital case sheets since May 12, Delhi has the second lowest mortality among the five states with the highest number of Covid-19 cases – Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Rajasthan. Only Tamil Nadu, with a mortality rate of 0.69%, has reported fewer deaths than Delhi.Delhi has one of the highest testing rates in the country, with 7,147 tests per million population. The national testing rate for India is 1,671 tests per million population.Around 45% of the people infected have already recovered from the viral infection, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday. So far, 4,485 people of the 10,054 infected have recovered from Covid-19 in Delhi. “In Delhi, there are 10,054 cases till date. This is large in number. However, a total of 4,485 persons have been cured/discharged, which is 45% of the total cases,” Kejriwal said during a press conference.So far, 100,311 Covid-19  cases have been recorded in the country and Delhi accounts for 10.02% of them. From housing the nation’s busiest airport to Southeast Delhi’s Nizamuddin area emerging as the biggest cluster of cases following a religious congregation at the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in March, there are several reasons for the high caseload in the city.The Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi handled about 180,000 passengers daily, on an average, pre-Covid lockdown, before commercial passenger flights were suspended. Then in later March, Delhi discovered that 2300 people of the thousands who attended a week-long meeting of the Tablighi Jamaat at a hostel-like complex called the Markaz near the Nizamuddin Dargah remained there. When the authorities started the evacuation process on March 31, around 2,300 people were still there. Of them, 1,080 tested positive for the infection. Across the country at least 4,000 Covid-19 cases have been linked to the Delhi gathering. This led to a spike in the number of cases in the first half of Apri. The number of cases started shooting up again in May with over 400 cases being recorded on several days. Delhi breached the highest single-day spike in numbers four times in May -- 427 cases had been recorded on May 3, 428 on May 6, 448 on May 7, and 472 cases on May 21.This corresponds with an increase in the number of tests conducted in the city and laboratories across the capital rushing to deliver Covid-19 test reports with 24 hours of collecting the samples, complying with Delhi government and high court orders. Delhi has tested 139,727 samples since mid-January when the screening for the disease first began. From just one collection centre and no testing laboratory in the city in January, Delhi now has almost 60 sample collection centres and 28 laboratories that test the samples.During the second spike of the cases in Delhi, district authorities pointed out that hospitals were becoming hotspots for the infection, with several health care workers, their family members, and patients visiting hospitals also testing positive. So far, over 500 healthcare workers across the city have tested positive for Covid-19. This includes 106 healthcare workers from Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital, around 90 from All India Institute of Medical Sciences, and 75 from Babu Jagjivan Ram Memorial Hospital.“Many of the cases are coming from hospitals, BSF (Border Security Force), and CISF (Central Industrial Security Force). There have been many cases from the police department, and healthcare workers. Right now, most of the cases are coming from the existing containment zones, we will increase the containment zones as and when needed,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain, in an interaction with journalists on Sunday.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital, said, “The number of infections is higher in places with busy airports, along highways that a lot of people travel on, and in commercial hubs because that is where the infections were first imported by those who had travelled from abroad. Now, the problem areas are the slum populations in the major cities like Delhi and Mumbai as there are many people living in close quarters leading to easy transmission.”“I would have said that the number of cases (across India) would start coming down by June but the travel of migrant workers may take the infections to villages and small town now prolonging the infections for a little longer. However, the good thing is that viruses tend to kill fewer people after every mutation and our population is young so even if there are cases, the mortality will remain low,” said Dr Kishore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/capital-s-covid-19-cases-cross-10-000-mark/story-qzHCmLzJ6x7AoewmYk3FfJ.html
18-05-2020||India||Will need Rs 300 cr for quarantine care if 1 lakh people return, says Assam minister||Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Monday that the state would need around Rs 300 crore to provide proper quarantine facilities under Covid-19 protocol if nearly one lakh of its residents return from other states.“The state government is preparing a detailed plan of how much money we can afford to spend on each person in quarantine while ensuring they get good care. Our estimate says, we will have to spend Rs 300 cr if one lakh people are placed in quarantine,” the minister said while addressing a press conference.The Assam government had provided financial assistance of Rs 2,000 each to nearly 4 lakh workers from the state staying outside. As per that figure, it is estimated that nearly 1 lakh of them could return in the next few weeks.Sarma said that the Rs 300 cr figure is only for providing care to the quarantined persons including their stay, food, transportation etc. It would cost additional money to treat those found positive. It would cost nearly Rs 30,000 to keep one person in quarantine for 14 days, he added.“Most of the recent cases that have been detected are of people who were already in quarantine facilities after returning to the state from other parts of the country. It is a good sign as there is no chance of community spread from them,” said Sarma“But if our quarantine system fails, it will pose a big risk. Therefore all our efforts are effective management of facility as well as home quarantine. We are looking at providing good care to in quarantine with one toilet meant exclusively for one person,” he added.Sarma appealed to those stranded outside and wishing to come back to either delay their return or come back in a staggered manner to that it doesn’t put severe stress on their management once they arrive in Assam.“If people come in hordes, we won’t be able to give them proper care and they might have to spend time in quarantine in conditions similar to makeshift relief camps set up during floods. That could mean risk of infection and rise in cases,” he said.Sarma said that the government has coined a new slogan - ‘Ruthless Quarantine With Big Heart’ - which would require strict compliance of mandatory 14 days quarantine for all returnees while giving them good care and facilities.Till Monday 48,000 people had returned back to Assam from states in the northeast, other parts of the country and abroad.With the detection of six new cases on Monday, Assam’s Covid-19 tally rose to 107. While three patients have died, 42 have recovered, 58 are under treatment and two cases have migrated to other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-need-rs-300-cr-for-quarantine-care-if-1-lakh-people-return-says-assam-minister/story-qQJykD89YHDcO7HYBFKgbO.html
18-05-2020||India||Videos of jam sessions by Assam youths to overcome quarantine blues go viral||Spending several days in a Covid-19 quarantine facility can be an unnerving or depressing experience. More so if one has travelled thousands of kilometers to reach home before undergoing quarantine.But what better than music, songs and dance to lift the mood and overcome the monotony of remaining under strict safety and social distancing guidelines. That’s what several youths from Assam did at the quarantine facility set up at Sarusajai stadium in Guwahati.The videos of the impromptu jam sessions by these youths, who returned last week from Delhi by buses, have gone viral and cheered up many in the quarantine facility and others staying inside homes.“Nearly 100 of us from Assam left Delhi on May 10 in four buses and reached Guwahati on May 13 where we were put in quarantine,” said Sudarshan Baruah, a 26-year-old musician from Naharkatiya in Dibrugarh district and now based in Delhi for the past 5 years. Baruah is better known as Mou Ssak (bee hive in Assamese).“Most of us got to know each other during the journey back home. Once in quarantine, we found that several others were also interested in music. Someone took out his guitar, another played the flute and soon we are were jamming,” he added.Mou Ssak has since left the quarantine facility in Guwahati after his Covid-19 test came negative on May 16. He is at present in home quarantine. Same is the case with Mrinmoy Baruah, a 22-year-old from Nazira, who was doing his B Tech internship in Delhi.“While we are kept segregated in quarantine, there was a chance to interact at the few mobile charging points inside. It was while charging our phones, we started taking out our instruments and soon music happened. It was a nice relief from the quiet and sombre mood inside,” said Mrinmoy.“We indulged in these things inside to make ourselves feel better while waiting for results of our tests. Surprisingly, even the health workers and officials manning the quarantine encouraged as since they also needed some relaxation from the tough job at hand,” he added.Besides the songs and music, Mrinmoy and another quarantine resident Rag Barua also did one hour’s rehearsal to make a dance video inside the facility, which has also earned them praise online.“I am not a singer or dancer, but can hum along. It was nice to share our anxieties inside quarantine with fellow residents and indulge in songs and dance to overcome stress,” said Saroj Agnibashya, a graduate from Delhi University who started an Assamese food stall in the nation’s capital this January.Like other of his fellow travelers from Delhi, Saroj’s Covid-19 test also came negative on Monday and he will leave the quarantine facility and go to his home in Rangiya.With detection of six more positive cases on Monday, Assam tally of Covid -19 patients rose to 107 on Monday.Besides smaller facilities in each district, the Assam government has set up six large quarantine facilities at different locations to accommodate the large number of persons returning back. Till Sunday, the state had 13,618 beds available for mass quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/videos-of-jam-sessions-by-assam-youths-to-overcome-quarantine-blues-go-viral/story-u2htqatGOc3WWjmQLBNTaM.html
18-05-2020||India||Karnataka allows buses, taxis to ply as it sees highest single-day rise in Covid-19 cases||Karnataka has announced a series of new measures for lockdown 4:0, which will come into effect from Tuesday and will be in place till May 31, in a bid to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease.Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa told mediapersons after holding a Cabinet meeting that state-run buses, private buses, taxis and auto-rickshaws would be allowed to operate from Tuesday. Public parks would remain open between 7 and 9 am and 5 and 7 pm for people to exercise and walk, he added.Auto rickshaws and taxis would be allowed to carry only two passengers at a time. Maxi-cabs that play a key role in rural last-mile connectivity would be allowed to carry three passengers. All buses would be allowed to operate at 50% of their capacity and carry 30 passengers.The CM promised to make good for the losses to be accrued by state-run buses for operating at 50% of their capacity. The public transport will be available on all days, except Sunday, between 7 am and 7 pm.Karnataka has also permitted all commercial establishments to open and operate, except malls and theatres. Earlier, all industrial establishments had been allowed to reopen and operate.Trains will run within the state, but inter-state rail service remains barred.None of the opening up measures is applicable in the containment zones, which will continue to comply with strict lockdown restrictions. Only 50 guests will be allowed to attend a wedding ceremony. Wearing of masks in public is compulsory across the state and anybody flouting the rule will be penalised.On Sundays, the state will observe a complete lockdown and only emergent services will be allowed to function. Yediyurappa made it clear these measures are an experiment that will continue till May 31, and based on how it pans out the government is likely to decide on the next course of action, including re-imposing some of the earlier restrictions, if necessary.The relaxation in lockdown measures came even as the state saw the highest single-day rise in Covid-19 positive cases. Karnataka on Monday registered 99 new Covid-19 positive cases taking its tally to 1246 which includes 37 deaths and 530 discharges. A state health department official who did not want to be identified - as he is not authorized to speak to the media – said, “Nearly 70 of the 99 new cases are people who have had a travel history to Maharashtra. The spike is a cause of concern and we will try to effectively seal down the border even further.”Meanwhile, Deputy CM Ashwath Naryan said that there would be restrictions on the entry of people from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Gujarat and only those who have obtained e-passes on Seva Sindhu app could enter the state till May 31 and the government’s stance would be revised only after that date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-allows-buses-taxis-to-ply-as-it-sees-highest-single-day-rise-in-covid-19-cases/story-U9TxeUQSgqCH4R9rumjzFL.html
18-05-2020||India||No place like home, want to work in Uttarakhand, say migrants||At the Lalkuan railway station in Nainital district on Sunday night, 1,400 migrant workers who travelled on a special train from Ahmedabad seemed delirious with joy at just being in their home state.Bhola Dutt, resident of a village in Champawat district said “I worked in a steel plant in Ahmedabad. I faced so many problems financially due to the lockdown. My landlord took rent till May 14, while we had been sitting home since the lockdown started in March. We were not being given salaries and there was the constant worry of how will we would eat or live. We are now counting on the Uttarakhand government to give us employment opportunities here as we do not want to go back.”Vikas Chamola, a resident of Dharchula in Pithoragarh district said “Lockdown taught that our home state is much safer in comparison to other places in the country. I worked in a hotel in Ahmedabad and after the lockdown was imposed, no one helped me and I was not even getting paid. I will do anything here in my own state, but not go outside now.”Even those working in multinational companies hold the same view after returning to Uttarakhand.Mohan Singh, a resident of Someshwar in Almora district who worked in a multinational company said that in the past one month he spent anxious days and sleepless nights wondering how we will return home.“We stopped getting our salaries as the office was closed and securing every meal seemed like a major task. We hope that the Uttarakhand government gives us employment here now,” he said.On Monday, another 1,595 migrants returned to Nainital from Surat. Savin Bansal, district magistrate Nainital said “Around 1,595 migrants arrived from Surat and each passenger was screened at the station itself.”Out of the 1595, 125 migrants were from Nainital, 417 from Bageshwar, 116 from Champawat, 197 from Almora, 336 from Pithoragarh, 131 from Chamoli, 17 from Dehradun, 14 from Uttarkashi, 125 from Rudraprayag, 51 from Tehri Garhwal, 56 from Pauri Garhwal, 35 from US Nagar and 14 from Haridwar.Bansal said that every migrant was given water bottles, juice, masks and food packets before they were sent to their respective destinations in 61 buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-place-like-home-want-to-work-in-uttarakhand-say-migrants/story-sd9hMDCA0L1HO9xecQE1YM.html
18-05-2020||India||Migrant workers travel with dead bodies of those killed in UP’s Auraiya||The bodies of migrant workers who were killed in Uttar Pradesh’s Auraiya road accident last week were stuffed in a truck with the workers and sent to West Bengal and Jharkhand late on Sunday night.On being tipped off, the Prayagraj police intercepted the truck near Nawabganj and arranged for separate vehicles.According to information, bodies of at least 17 workers who belonged to West Bengal and Jharkhand were loaded on a DCM truck with some labourers. IG Range Prayagraj KP Singh said the bodies were sent separately in air conditioned ‘dead body van’ and arrangements were made to send the workers to their native places in another vehicle.The authorities said that there are only two hearses in the entire district. Therefore, the bodies were transported in a truck with the injured, a senior official said. It remains unexplained as to why hearses were not requested from adjoining districts like Kanpur, Etawah, Kannauj, Kanpur Dehat. Both commissioner Kanpur division SK Bobde and DM auraiya Abhishek Singh were not available despite repeated attempts.In a development, DM Auraiya has suspended five lekhpals Ankit Agarwal, Lalit Pratap, Shashikant Porwal, Bhupendra Pal and Rocky. These lekhpals were given the responsibility of transporting the bodies of migrant workers.Twenty-four migrant workers had died and 36 injured on Saturday early morning when a trailer truck carrying sacks of lime, along with 43 people, rammed the back of a stationary truck with many other migrant workers sitting in it on the national highway in Auraiya.A police sub-inspector and seven constables were suspended for negligence in discharging duty in connection with the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-workers-travel-with-dead-bodies-of-those-killed-in-up-s-auraiya/story-kFlKkHm7yrdiYWL2vsTdrN.html
18-05-2020||India||Nepal to publish maps showing India’s Kalapani, Lipulekh as its territory||The Nepal government decided on Monday to publish new maps showing Lipulekh and Kalapani, the subject of disputes with India, as part of Nepalese territory amid an escalating border row between the two countries.The decision to show Limpiyadhura, Lipulekh and Kalapani was made at a meeting of the council of ministers chaired by Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli.Nepal’s foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali tweeted in Nepali that the council of ministers had decided to publish a new map of the country showing the seven provinces, 77 districts and 753 local administrative divisions, including “Limpiyadhura, Lipulekh and Kalapani”.The official map will be published soon by the land management ministry, he said.Culture and tourism minister Yogesh Bhattarai, in a tweet, thanked Oli and said the council of ministers’ decision “will be written in golden letters in the pages of history”.There was no immediate response from Indian officials. The external affairs ministry has already said Lipulekh, at the centre of a border row over the construction of a road to the border with China, is “completely within the territory of India”.Defence minister Rajnath Singh recently opened the 80-km road that ends at Lipulekh Pass. It was built so that pilgrims going to Kailash-Mansarovar can avoid dangerous high-altitude routes through Sikkim and Nepal.Nepal has also been irked by Indian Army chief Gen Manoj Mukund Naravane’s remarks last week that Nepal’s protest against the border road was at the behest of “someone else” – a veiled reference to China. The Indian Army chief is also the honorary chief of the Nepal Army.Monday’s development came barely a day after Gyawali thanked the Indian government for providing medical logistics and kits for 30,000 tests as part of cooperation to fight the Covid-19 pandemic.Kathmandu has contending the new road “passes through Nepali territory” and the government summoned the Indian envoy last week to lodge a protest. The border row erupted months after Nepal was irked by the depiction of Kalapani as part of Uttarakhand in new Indian maps showing the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.India has said both sides can resolve such boundary issues through diplomatic dialogue, though such talks would be held after they have dealt with the Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-to-publish-maps-showing-india-s-kalapani-lipulekh-as-its-territory/story-qy09NQCvW40C3rvzw2i3QJ.html
18-05-2020||India||Big challenge to tackle Super Cyclone Amphan amid Covid-19 outbreak: NDRF||Warning that Super Cyclone Amphan has the potential to cause extensive damage to the coastlines of Bengal and Odisha during landfall later this week, National Disaster Response Force Director General SN Pradhan on Monday said preparing for the super cyclonic storm amid the Covid-19 pandemic was a “dual challenge” for the force. “Cyclone Amphan is very intense and has the potential to do large-scale damage. It’s a big challenge as the cyclone is striking during the outbreak of Covid-19. We have dedicated 53 teams, including those on standby, for Cyclone Amphan and for the people likely to be affected in Odisha, West Bengal,” the NDRF DG said at a news briefing.Cyclone Amphan developed rapidly into a super cyclone in the Bay of Bengal on Monday afternoon prompting a series of key meetings in New Delhi. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday afternoon chaired a meeting of the National Disaster Management Authority to discuss the preparations in place to tackle the cyclonic storm. The Prime Minister has directed that all necessary measures be taken to complete evacuation of people from areas in the cyclone’s path and maintain adequate quantities of essential supplies.ALSO READ | 21 years later, Bengal, Odisha prep for another Super Cyclone, this time AmphanThe super cyclonic storm is expected to make landfall on May 20 between Digha in West Bengal and Hatia Island in Bangladesh, according to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). It is an extremely severe cyclonic storm with wind speeds ranging from 195 kmph to 250 kmph. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla has spoken to the chief secretaries of West Bengal and Odisha on Monday. He told the West Bengal government that as per their request, 13 teams of NDRF have already been pre-positioned in the state, 4 teams are en-route and 4 teams are on standby for relief and rescue operations if needed.Bhalla also assured of any assistance if required from the Centre and said help would be provided immediately.According to definition, a super cyclone usually travels with wind speed velocity of almost 250 kmph and makes a tremendous impact on landfall causing large-scale destruction.“We don’t want to take Amphan lightly as it’s only the second time that India is witnessing a super cyclone after 1999,” Pradhan said. Twenty-one years ago, in 1999, another super cyclonic storm had ravaged large parts of Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal. It had taken Odisha, a number of months to repair the extensive damage that the Super Cyclone had caused back then.Cyclone Amphan will also cause heavy to extremely heavy rainfall in the coastal districts of West Bengal and it has the potential to cause extensive damage in the coastal districts of the state, a government statement issued on Monday evening said.The districts of East Medinipur, South and North 24 Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Kolkata in West Bengal are likely to be the worst affected due to Cyclone Amphan. The storm is also likely to impact the coastal districts of north Odisha, including Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapada, Bhadrak and Balasore.The IMD has warned of a storm surge of a height of about four-six metres above the astronomical tide, which would inundate the low-lying coastal areas of South and North 24 Parganas, and three-four metres in East Medinipur at the time of landfall, the statement said.The government statement also recommended review of telecommunications in the event of damages caused to them and also to ensure quick resumption of services in the event of any disruption.The Indian Coast Guard and the Navy have deployed ships and helicopters for relief and rescue operations. The Army and the Air Force units in West Bengal and Odisha have also been put on standby to prepare for the Super Cyclone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dual-challenge-to-tackle-super-cyclone-amphan-amid-covid-19-outbreak-ndrf-chief/story-M7clwHhUZB6f9N9dBtjWmN.html
18-05-2020||India||India took all necessary steps well in time to combat Covid-19 pandemic: Health Minister Harsh Vardhan||India took all the necessary steps well in time to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, Union Health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Monday, asserting that the country has done well in dealing with the disease and is confident of doing better in the months to come.Prime Minister Narendra Modi personally monitored the situation and ensured a preemptive, proactive and graded response, leaving no stones unturned to contain the deadly virus from spreading, Vardhan said, addressing the 73rd World Health Assembly via video conferencing.India undertook the Covid-19 challenge with the highest level of political commitment, he added.Therapeutics, diagnostics and vaccines for the whole world is the only way out of this pandemic, Vardhan asserted. “Global collaboration is paramount. Governments, industry and philanthropy must pool resources to pay for the risk, the research, manufacturing and distribution, but with the condition that the rewards should be available to everyone, regardless of where they have been developed,” he said.His remarks come after India on Monday joined nearly 120 countries at the crucial conference of the World Health Organisation in pushing for an impartial and comprehensive evaluation of the global response into the coronavirus crisis as well as to examine the origin of the deadly infection.The two-day 73rd session of the World Health Assembly (WHA) of the WHO began in Geneva amid growing calls including by US President Donald Trump to investigate how the virus originated in China’s Wuhan city and subsequent action by Beijing.Taking to Twitter, WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said that the 73rd World Health Assembly (WHA) -- the first ever to be convened virtually -- is an opportunity for health leaders to commit to “fight Covid-19 together, in unity, in solidarity!” This is the time when humankind must come together, Vardhan said in his remarks at the conference, urging all governments, industry and philanthropy to prioritise the long-term and pool their resources, to ensure everyone benefits.“On our part, India is playing a key role in fostering bilateral and regional partnerships. Under our prime minister’s able leadership, India has supplied essential medicines to 123 nations as an expression of solidarity,” he said.Talking about India’s response to the Covid-19 battle, Vardhan said the country took all necessary steps well in time, including surveillance at points of entry, evacuation of nationals stranded overseas, massive community surveillance through robust disease surveillance network, strengthening of health infrastructure, capacity building of over two million frontline human resources, risk communication and community involvement. “I think we did our best and we did well. We are learning and we are confident of doing better in the months to come,” Vardhan said.Underlining that there are compelling circumstances that have forced WHO member states all to meet virtually, he said the 73rd WHA is the first ever virtual health assembly, it is unprecedented, but it’s also perhaps the most important one because the pandemic is continuing to kill thousands of people and also causing a deep global recession.“Today, in the two-day deliberations, we should share our learnings from how each one of us has tackled this catastrophe since January, how we can support the financial or technical gaps that some of our member states may have and agree to continue R&D in an aggressive and collaborative way,” Vardhan said.“In congratulating all those who are striving to save humanity, we welcome efforts to make all International Institutions more reflective of 21st century realities. India will always stand with such efforts to foster meaningful and broad-based change,” the minister asserted.Closing his speech, Vardhan stood up to give a loud applause for all those across the world who are in the forefront of the battle against the deadly virus.“I stand here to honour the doctors, the nurses, the paramedics, the scientists, the journalists, the delivery boys, security staff, sanitation staff and the police personnel - the forgotten roles who are today playing ‘super humans’. They are our real heroes,” he said after he stood up from his chair in a heartwarming gesture to honour the ‘Covid warriors’ Vardhan also expressed his deepest condolences at the loss of lives across the world due to Covid-19. The WHA is also expected to delve into pooling in additional resources to deal with the pandemic that has killed over 310,000 people and infected nearly 4.7 million besides wrecking the global economy.A draft resolution pushed by the 27-nation European Union and supported by a large number of countries for deliberations at the WHA has called for a step-wise process of impartial, independent and comprehensive evaluation of the WHO-coordinated international response to Covid-19.It, however, did not mention China. The coronavirus pandemic was first reported in Wuhan, a port city in China in December last year. Since then, it has spread to over 180 countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-took-all-necessary-steps-well-in-time-to-combat-covid-19-pandemic-health-minister-harsh-vardhan/story-AFKSf2QYAUHkyDfntnGTQI.html
18-05-2020||India||Uttarakhand may use rapid testing on borders after consultation with ICMR, says HC||Expressing concern over many migrants returning to the state testing positive for Covid-19, the Uttarakhand high court on Monday directed that state government may use rapid testing for surveillance purposes on borders, only after consultation with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which is the nodal agency spearheading the fight against the pandemic in the country.The HC said “the sense which we get from the long discussion we had so far is that the State government may implement the use of rapid testing for surveillance purposes, only after consultation with ICMR”.The court’s direction came while hearing a PIL filed by Haridwar-based Sachdanand Dabral regarding the plight of the migrants and other needy people amid lockdown.So far 24 people who returned to Uttarakhand from other states during the ongoing evacuation process have turned Covid-19 positive in the state, raising alarm bells among the health officials fighting the epidemic in the state. The state has so far reported 96 Covid-19 cases.The HC noted that the “Secretary, health, government of Uttarakhand as of now has assured this court that the government will consult ICMR on whether rapid testing can be done at the borders for surveillance purposes only, and he shall apprise this court of the outcome on the next date of listing,” according to Shiv Bhatt, counsel of the petitioner.The next hearing in the matter has been fixed on May 20In the PIL, Dabral had alleged that authorities concerned had failed to provide relief materials to daily wage labourers and needy persons on their doorsteps during the lockdown, adding that such people are “incapable of approaching the court as in the present crisis they are without any food or money..”.On May 13, HC had sought reply from state and Central government on two issues - whether, each person returning to the state was also being medically examined as ‘thermal screening is not enough’ and whether antigen tests, or any other rapid tests, could be performed on people returning to the state.Abhishek Tripathi, chief operational officer for Covid-19 in Uttarakhand said that ICMR has said that rapid testing is not an authentic test and it has not recommended it.“As per the guideline from ICMR of April 27, it had said that it advocates that RT-PCR throat/nasal swab test as the best use for diagnosis of Covid-19. RT-PCR test detects the virus early and is the best strategy to identify and isolate the individual,” said Tripathi.According to government officials, till Monday evening, over 2.25 lakh registrations for return to Uttarakhand had been made on the state website. Of these, the state government under its evacuation process has so far brought back 1,04,461 people through trains and buses.In the case of people from other states stranded in Uttarakhand, 38,176 have registered with the government for return to their respective states. Of these, 22,526 have been sent to their respective states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-may-use-rapid-testing-on-borders-after-consultation-with-icmr-says-hc/story-KWyHBO76v2mQgeP1eFF7OL.html
18-05-2020||India||Uddhav Thackeray wants to get rid of Covid-19 by the start of monsoon||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday set an ambitious target of overcoming the Covid-19 pandemic by the time the monsoon starts.“We want to get rid of this calamity by the beginning of monsoon,” he said in a video addressMaharashtra with a tally of over 35,000 Covid-19 cases is the state with the highest numbers in India.But Thackeray claimed that the government has managed to slow down the spread of the disease.“We have slowed down the spread of Covid-19. Now we can lift the restriction step by step,” he said.He ruled out relaxing restrictions in red zones during the fourth phase of the lockdown to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic and that he was willing to face flak for it.“I am willing to face criticism but it would not be feasible to lift lockdown at this stage. We know what happened in the US and Europe.” Maharashtra had announced extending the lockdown till May 31 hours before the Centre made the announcement on Sunday.Thackeray, who took oath as a legislator earlier in the day, also said that 50,000 industrial units have resumed operations.Amid the continuing migration of stranded workers from Maharashtra, he appealed to migrant labourers not to travel on foot.“We have facilitated the return of five lakh migrants to their home states,” he said in his address.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uddhav-thackeray-wants-to-get-rid-of-covid-19-by-the-start-of-monsoon/story-e3Uyy8Im8iHfgikkuwWGUL.html
18-05-2020||India||Migrant worker, 26, found hanging at quarantine centre in Chhattisgarh||A migrant labourer allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself at a quarantine centre in Balod district on Monday. He was 26.The police said that the reason of the suicide is yet to be ascertained and the investigation is underway.“Suraj Yadu, a resident of Paraswani village under Arjunda police, returned on Sunday from Surat ( Gujarat) and was kept in a quarantine centre near his village. On Monday evening, he committed suicide by hanging himself,” Additional Superintendent of Police, Balod, ML Kotwani told HT.On Monday, Suraj gave samples for Covid-19 tests after which he was seen inside the school-turned-quarantine centre, the police said.“Later, he was found hanging. The body has been sent for post-mortem and investigation is underway,” said Kotwani, adding that he had returned to his village after two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-worker-26-found-hanging-at-quarantine-centre-in-chhattisgarh/story-qAzVVvxcm6K4NElwtKC1sJ.html
18-05-2020||India||4 people with travel history test Covid-19 positive in Uttarakhand, tally climbs to 96||Four people who returned from different parts of the country to Uttarakhand last week have tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, taking the state’s tally of total cases to 96.A bulletin issued by the state health department on Monday evening confirmed the development.The bulletin mentioned, “Three new positive cases of Covid-19 were detected in district Dehradun, Uttarkashi and Nainital.”A 35-year-old man who returned to Dehradun from Mumbai and a 23-year-old man who returned to Uttarkashi from Gurugram tested positive at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences’ (AIIMS) Rishikesh lab. Meanwhile, a 20-year-old woman who had returned to Nainital from New Delhi tested positive at the VRDL lab in Haldwani.Earlier in the day, the health department had said that a 60-year-old woman from Dehradun who had recently returned from Mumbai tested positive for Covid-19 late on Sunday night. The 60-year-old woman had returned from Mumbai on May 14 and was in home quarantine at the time when the sample was tested.With this, a total of 47 Covid-19 cases have been reported from Dehradun with 18 active cases are there in the state. The rate of doubling of cases in Dehradun stands at 17.75 days.Uttarakhand has so far tested 13,870 samples of which results of 1,087 are awaited. With the latest case, 24 people who returned to the state in the past one week have tested positive for Covid-19 in Uttarakhand.On Saturday night, a 27-year-old man who had returned from Mumbai tested positive for Covid-19 from Dehradun district. Harish Mohan Thapliyal, public relations officer of AIIMS Rishikesh informed that the patient who tested positive on Saturday night worked in a luxury hotel in Mumbai and was asymptomatic when he had returned.“The patient worked as a hotel receptionist in a high-end hotel in Mumbai for the past five-six years and had recently returned home after a few positive cases surfaced in the same hotel though he had tested negative when his samples were taken there. He was asymptomatic and stayed in home quarantine in Rishikesh. He came to our screening OPD on Saturday with the intention for testing since his hotel co-workers were positive and he had travelled a long distance. We took his samples on Saturday morning and he tested positive by the same day mid-night,” Thapliyal said.He added that after the patient tested positive, officials are now doing a detailed contact tracing and taking other necessary action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-people-with-travel-history-test-covid-19-positive-in-uttarakhand-tally-climbs-to-96/story-cyslLNm980b2hTUBHXUIPK.html
18-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Anti-lockdown protests in US may spread Covid-19, says report and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Anti-lockdown protests in US may spread Covid-19, says reportAnti-lockdown protests taking place around the United States could potentially spread the coronavirus as people are travelling to them far and areas not relatively unaffected by the epidemic, according to an analysis of data gleaned from location tracking of cellphones of the protestors.Read more. Delhi allows buses, taxis, autorickshaws; odd-even for shops in marketsDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced steps to restart the economy amid relaxation in the fourth phase of the lockdown to tackle the spread of Covid-19. Read more. 29 new Covid-19 cases in Kerala, wine shops to open WednesdayKerala reported 29 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday, the highest in two months, even as it announced a series of measures to ease the lockdown including opening of wine shops. Read more. Afghan govt rejects Taliban leader’s remarks about India’s ‘negative role’The Afghan government on Monday rejected a senior Taliban leader’s remarks that India has been playing a “negative role” in Afghanistan, saying India has been cooperating in development and is expected to contribute to the peace process. Read more. ‘Death warrant’: Gautam Gambhir shreds CM Kejriwal over Delhi relaxationsBJP leader Gautam Gambhir on Monday strongly urged Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to rethink again the lockdown 4.0 relaxations he announced this evening for Delhi. The BJP leader cautioned that one wrong move and it will be over. Read more. Nawazuddin Siddiqui’s wife Aaliya files for divorce: ‘There is not one but several reasons behind my problems with Nawaz’Actor Nawazuddin Siddiqui’s wife Aaliya has filed for divorce. She has also sent him a notice seeking maintenance and has made some ‘serious allegations’ against him. Read more. Kangana Ranaut reveals her inner poet with new poem titled ‘Aasmaan’National Award winning actor Kangana Ranaut once again proved that she is a Jack of all trades when she penned down another poem after the one she wrote for her mother for Mother’s Day which was on May 10. Read more. Mariah Carey’s response to this girl thinking the singer coined E=mc2 is hilariously uplifting. WatchIf you’ve been on Instagram recently, you must have seen the entertaining new head filters. Some of them make you guess coherent phrases out of gibberish while others expect you to sound-out celebrity names based on emojis. Read more. ‘Practical lockdown in West Bengal’: TMC MP lashes out at Modi GovtAs India enters the fourth phase of the lockdown, TMC Parliamentary party leader in Rajya Sabha, Derek O’Brien said that the West Bengal government has always been in favour of a partial lockdown. He said that migrant workers got no time to return to their villages. He also spoke on the migrant crisis and the politics over train services. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-anti-lockdown-protests-in-us-may-spread-covid-19-says-report-and-all-the-latest-news/story-yRwA2vRkEYESDumAhVraFO.html
18-05-2020||India||Yashwant Sinha claims ‘arrest’ by Delhi police over protest for migrants||Former BJP leader Yashwant Sinha on Monday claimed that he was “arrested” by the Delhi police for protesting to send migrant workers home safely. Sinha said Aam Aadmi Party MP Sanjay Singh too was arrested along with him.“We have just been arrested by the Delhi Police,” tweeted Sinha this evening.  We have just been arrested by the Delhi Police.The former finance minister sat on a dharna at Rajghat this morning to demand the deployment of armed forces and para military forces to take the migrant workers home with dignity.He was protesting against the treatment meted out to the migrants with police beating them up and they being left on their own to die on the road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yashwant-sinha-claims-arrest-by-delhi-police-was-protesting-to-send-migrants-home-safely/story-Mp3PSACaplwoo6kGcmIM2M.html
18-05-2020||India||Afghan govt rejects Taliban leader’s remarks about India’s ‘negative role’||The Afghan government on Monday rejected a senior Taliban leader’s remarks that India has been playing a “negative role” in Afghanistan, saying India has been cooperating in development and is expected to contribute to the peace process.Sher Muhammad Abbas Stanikzai, the Taliban’s chief negotiator and head of its political office in Qatar, had been quoted by the media on Sunday as saying that India has been playing a negative role in Afghanistan for the past 40 years.Stanikzai, a former military officer who once trained at the Indian Military Academy in Dehradun, also said India should reconsider its policy on Afghanistan. If the Indian government reconsiders its policy and wants an active role in peace, reconciliation and reconstruction, the Taliban will welcome it and look at it positively, he said.The Afghan foreign ministry said on Monday that Afghanistan’s ties with India are “within international frameworks and based on mutual respect”. India has very good relations with Afghanistan and is one of the biggest donor countries, the ministry said.Foreign ministry spokesperson Gran Hewad told the US-backed Radio Azadi: “India one of the biggest donor countries and has helped Afghanistan in development and reconstruction areas, we appreciate their cooperation. We expect India and other neighbouring counties [will] play a significant role in [the] Afghan peace process.”There was no immediate response from Indian officials to Stanikzai’s remarks.Stanikzai had also claimed that India has only cooperated with “those who are corrupt and have been put in power by foreigners not elected by Afghan people”.These developments have come days after the US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation, Zalmay Khalilzad, discussed the Afghan peace process with external affairs minister S Jaishankar and National Security Adviser Ajit Doval during a trip to New Delhi. He also said India should directly engage with the Taliban.People familiar with developments have said India is yet to take a call on engaging with the Taliban in any way.Khalid Sadaat, a political analyst, told Radio Azadi that the Taliban are making such assertions on Pakistan’s demand. He said, “The Taliban should not give themselves this liberty to make county and state-level remarks, as it will have negative consequences for Afghanistan in future.“The other thing is that India and Pakistan are having historical enmity and Pakistan is playing a proxy role in Afghanistan, and Taliban are being accused of playing Pakistan’s proxy role in Afghanistan and are backed by Pakistan. I believe Taliban [are making] these assertions on Pakistan’s demand.”The US has also stepped up efforts to implement its troubled deal with the Taliban, which has run into problems because of several issues, including the release of prisoners. India has also called for a cessation of hostilities so that authorities can focus on the Covid-19 pandemic.Over the past few days, a fake document about the Taliban calling for the launch of jihad in India went viral on social media. The Taliban denied the reports and a spokesman clarified the group’s policy does not allow interference in the affairs of any other country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghan-govt-rejects-taliban-leader-s-remarks-about-india-s-negative-role/story-qq6W3KLv6pp7pN323ANvVP.html
18-05-2020||India||Job hunt turns into nightmare for 21 Nepalese youths stranded in Bengal||On Sunday, 19-year-old Rakesh Kathayat and his friends from Nepal watched helplessly as Ganesh Yadav, an Indian commercial goods driver, crossed the bridge over the Mechi river in his truck and drove into Kakarvitta in Nepal.Kathayat, a resident of Nepal’s Dang region, and 20 of his friends came to Siliguri on March 23 to look for jobs. After the nationwide lockdown started on March 25 and the borders were sealed, the youths made several attempts to return home. They were stopped by West Bengal police and Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), that guards the international border, and sent back to Siliguri. It has been 40 days since the youths are living in a government facility for migrant workers.On Sunday, the youths walked 30 km from Siliguri to Panitanki in Darjeeling district and pleaded with officials. They were once again refused entry into Nepal.The youths claimed that they contacted some officials in their country before starting from Siliguri.“The officials promised to help us. We walked in the rain all night. But they are not even taking our calls,” Kathayat told HT.Nikesh Malla, another youth in the group, said, “We have not eaten anything since Saturday evening.”Achintya Gupta, the local deputy superintendent of police, said the local administration is helpless. “There is no way that we can help these stranded Nepali youths reach home,” he said. Kakarvitta is less than one km away from Panitanki and the two countries are divided by the Mechi river. During normal time, people from both countries can freely across the border. The Covid-19 pandemic, however, has changed the scenario. The border has been sealed for people. Only movement of goods vehicles between Bhutan and Nepal and India and Nepal have been allowed since May 9 to help Nepal meet its demand for essential items.Every day, trucks carrying essential commodities from the Kolkata port enter Nepal through Panitanki. While returning to India, however, the drivers have to use the Jogbani border point in Bihar.“The Bengal government has not allowed trucks to enter through this land port,” said a customs officer posted at Panitanki.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/job-hunt-turns-into-nightmare-for-21-nepalese-youths-stranded-in-bengal/story-IbBDCvRe0ZcRB7NvBkRhMP.html
18-05-2020||India||Water wars between AP, Telangana escalate: AP lodges counter complaints against Telangana||Andhra Pradesh on Monday accused Telangana of constructing new irrigation projects on the Krishna and Godavari rivers without permissions even as it defended its own plans to take up new schemes.Andhra Pradesh’s special chief secretary (irrigation) Adityanath Das submitted a detailed explanation to the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) on its latest proposal to draw 6 thousand million cubic feet (tmc) to 8 tmc of water from Krishna river by constructing the Rayalaseema lift irrigation scheme and expanding the Pothireddypadu head on the foreshore of the inter-state Srisailam reservoir.Das pointed out that the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act clearly stipulated that any new project by both states has to be first evaluated and recommended by KRMB and Central Water Commission. Thereafter, the projects require approval from the apex council of the Jal Sakthi ministry.He said after bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh in June 2014, Telangana had taken up five new projects for using 150.53 tmc of waters from Krishna, with an ayacut of 16.87 lakh acres, in violation of the provisions of the act. These projects are Palamuru-Ranga Reddy lift scheme, Dindi lift scheme, Bhaktha Ramadas lift scheme, Mission Bhagiratha and Tummilla lift scheme.In addition, Telangana enhanced the capacity of existing projects such as Kalwakurthy, Nettempadu and Srisailam Left Bank Canal, Das said.“Andhra Pradesh lodged its protest on several occasions on these projects and in spite of repeated requests by Andhra Pradesh, Telangana is going ahead with executing these projects, affecting the interests of the people of Andhra Pradesh,” he said.Das defended the latest projects proposed by Andhra Pradesh, saying they were meant to meet drinking water and irrigation needs of drought-hit areas of Rayalaseema, Nellore and Prakasam districts.“At present, water can be drawn from Pothireddypadu head regulator only for 10 to 15 days a year, only when the water level in Srisailam is above 810 feet. We have proposed the Rayalaseems lift scheme to draw water at a level of 800 feet to meet our needs and it will be within the allocation of the tribunal,” he said.Das also wrote a separate letter to the Godavari River Management Board (GRMB), complaining against Telangana for building several irrigation projects, including the Rs 1 lakh crore Kaleshwaram lift irrigation scheme, which allegedly violates the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act.He said the total water available to both states from Godavari river is 1,430 tmc, including 776 tmc to Andhra Pradesh and 650 tmc to Telangana.“However, Telangana has been executing seven new projects, including Kaleshwaram, with utilisation of 450 tmc feet without furnishing the detailed project reports to GRMB and approval of apex council. What is more, Telangana has enhanced the utilisation of waters under Kaleswaram from 225 tmc to 450 tmc, which will affect the Andhra projects like Polavaram in the downstream,” he complained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/water-wars-between-ap-telangana-escalate-ap-lodges-counter-complaints-against-telangana/story-rXK4km16DGAEZ2laKYxHFN.html
18-05-2020||India||Nawazuddin Siddiqui home quarantined with family at UP home||Actor Nawazuddin Siddiqui, who along with his mother and two other family members reached his ancestral house in Budhana in western Uttar Pradesh’s (UP) Muzaffarnagar district on Friday afternoon, has said he that travelled to his hometown, as his mother wasn’t keeping well.The actor said he took necessary permission from the authorities in Maharashtra before driving down to Budhana and also followed all lockdown restrictions enforced by the UP government. The actor’s mother Mehrunnisha, younger brother Fayazuddin, and the latter’s wife Saba came back with him from Mumbai.Dr Praveen Chopra, chief medical officer (CMO), Muzaffarnagar, said they collected swab samples of the actor and three of his family members upon their arrival from Mumbai on Friday and sent for tests. “The report that was made available to us on Sunday. The results showed that all four tested negative. However, they’ve been placed under home quarantine for 14 days, as a precautionary measure,” the CMO added. Officials in the actor’s hometown were concerned as Maharashtra, and particularly Mumbai, has emerged as Covid-19 hotspot.“My mother, who is 71, suffered a panic attack twice because of the recent loss of our younger sister. We have followed all the state government’s guidelines. We are #HomeQuarantined at our hometown Budhana. Please #StaySafe #StayHome,” the 45-year-old actor tweeted on Monday.Ayazuddin, one of his younger brothers, said the actor decided to travel home because he could not visit Budhana when their younger sister, Syama Tamshi Siddiqui, died of cancer last year due to prior work commitment. He also clarified that the family would not celebrate Eid this year because of the younger sister’s death.“Muslims don’t celebrate festivals at least for a year after a death in a family. But my elder brother’s presence was essential and he fulfilled his responsibility towards the family,” said Ayazuddin.His fans have not been able to throng to his ancestral residence, as they are still unaware of his visit amid the lockdown restrictions. Ayazuddin said that he, too, has not met his elderr brother for the last two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nawazuddin-siddiqui-home-quarantined-with-family-at-up-home/story-HfVHKbEEf0Qh3CfjV6RzHP.html
18-05-2020||India||29 new Covid-19 cases in Kerala, wine shops to open Wednesday||Kerala reported 29 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday, the highest in two months, even as it announced a series of measures to ease the lockdown including opening of wine shops.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said out of 29 cases 21 had returned from abroad and seven came from other states.Kerala has recorded 630 cases of Covid-19 so far out of which 130 are active cases. Four have died so far.With 38 flights from foreign countries and 24 trains from other states scheduled in the next two weeks, the state is bracing for a major surge in Covid-19 cases. Some of Kerala’s worst fears came true last week after the exodus from West Asian countries and other states led to a surge in active cases from 16 to 130. Thousands of others are under observation with some symptoms.“We have announced some concessions but it doesn’t mean that restrictions are over. We have to keep in mind the rising number of cases,” said Vijayan.The CM conceded that the rising number of Covid-19 cases was a major concern. In the last five days, 97 cases were reported in the state. Despite this the government announced many steps to ease the lockdown which ends on May 31.All liquor outlets will be opened from Wednesday and bars hotels will also be allowed to sell alcohol on retail price, for the first time since the lockdown was enforced on March 25. For this virtual queue will be introduced, said the CM. Once a person registers online a particular time will be slotted to the customer. Kerala had earlier refused to open wine shops fearing that it would spark a mad rush during the lockdown.Many prohibition activists and others have asked the government not to resume the sale of alcohol which is one of the main sources of revenue for the state. The opposition Congress has criticised the move to sell liquor through bars. After the lockdown, the state had reported many suicides over the non-availability of alcohol.The state will also resume bus services within districts with fares being hiked. For inter-district travel, passes are mandatory and buses will be allowed to carry passengers only half the vehicle’s capacity, Vijayan said.Similarly auto-rickshaws and taxis will be allowed but with a restricted number of passengers.In barber shops only cutting of hair will be allowed, no facial or other services. Beauty parlours and spas will not be allowed to open.Big shopping complexes and mall will remain closed, the CM said. All government offices will remain closed on Saturday and on Sunday a complete lockdown will be in force, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/29-new-covid-19-cases-in-kerala-wine-shops-to-open-wednesday/story-6br4kn5LM4RSU0d0qxESQL.html
18-05-2020||India||Karnataka lockdown 4.0: Shops to open, trains to start, cabs and buses allowed||Karnataka has announced a series of new measures for lockdown 4:0, which came into effect from Monday and will be in place till May 31 in a bid to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The relaxation in lockdown measures came on a day when the state saw the biggest single-day rise in Covid-19 positive cases at 99, taking the total count to 1,246, including 37 deaths. While 530 patients have recovered so far.“Nearly 70 of the 99 new cases have been recorded among people, who have had a recent travel history to Maharashtra. The spike is a cause of concern. We’ll try to further tighten the Karnataka-Maharashtra borders,” said a state health department official, requesting anonymity. State chief minister BS Yediyurappa told media persons on Monday that state-run buses, private buses, taxis, and auto-rickshaws would be allowed to operate from Tuesday. Public parks would remain open between 7am and 9am and 5pm and 7pm for people to exercise and walk, he added.Auto rickshaws and taxis would be allowed to carry only two passengers at a time. Maxi-cabs that play a key role in rural last-mile connectivity would be allowed to carry three passengers. All buses would be allowed to operate at 50% of their capacity and carry 30 passengers.The CM promised to make good for the losses for the state-run buses for operating at 50% of their capacity. The public transport will be available on all days, except Sunday, between 7am and 7pm.Karnataka has also permitted all commercial establishments to open and operate, except malls and theatres. Earlier, all industrial establishments had been allowed to reopen and operate.Trains will run within the state, but inter-state rail service is barred.None of the opening up measures is applicable in the containment zones, which will continue to comply with strict lockdown restrictions. Only 50 guests will be allowed to attend a wedding ceremony. Wearing of masks in public is compulsory across the state and anybody flouting the rule will be penalised.On Sundays, the state will observe a complete lockdown and only emergency services will be allowed to function.Yediyurappa made it clear these measures are an experiment that will continue till May 31, and based on how it pans out the government is likely to decide on the next course of action, including re-imposing some of the earlier restrictions, if necessary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-lockdown-4-0-shops-to-open-trains-to-start-cabs-and-buses-allowed/story-FocU4ZouWUUQ93ij19YcYP.html
18-05-2020||India||‘Death warrant’: Gautam Gambhir shreds CM Kejriwal over Delhi relaxations||BJP leader Gautam Gambhir on Monday strongly urged Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to rethink again the lockdown 4.0 relaxations he announced this evening for Delhi. The BJP leader cautioned that one wrong move and it will be over. “The decision to open up almost everything in one go can act as a DEATH WARRANT for Delhiites! I urge Delhi Govt to think again & again! One wrong move & everything will be over!” tweeted Gambhir. The decision to open up almost everything in one go can act as a DEATH WARRANT for Delhiites! I urge Delhi Govt to think again & again! One wrong move & everything will be over!! #DelhiLockdownDefending the decision, deputy CM Manish Sisodia said we have to learn to live with coronavirus. “We have to live with Corona so Delhi decides to open but slowly & cautiously. Public Buses, Taxis, Auto allowed to operate. Markets, shops, offices, restaurants-home delivery allowed. Metro, malls, barbers, schools closed. Take care and stay safe,” tweeted Sisodia.The CM announced opening of shops in markets on an odd-even basis and running of buses with only 20 passengers, but said Metro services, schools, colleges, cinema halls and saloons will remain closed.“We have to gradually move towards opening the economy. We used the lockdown period to make arrangements to deal with Covid-19,” he said.People boarding buses in the city will have to be screened first, he said, adding that four-wheeler vehicles, including taxis, will be allowed with only two passengers.Two-wheelers will be permitted but no pillion riders, the chief minister said.“Construction activities and trucks carrying goods will be allowed in Delhi,” he said.Religious gatherings are barred in the city till May 31, the chief minister said, adding that restaurants can open for home-delivery but dining facilities will not be permitted.A total of 50 people can attend marriage functions, while 20 people can take part in funerals, Kejriwal said.On Sunday, the Centre extended the lockdown, necessitated by the coronavirus outbreak in the country, till May 31 while giving more relaxations. Earlier today, the home ministry advised states against diluting restrictions under lockdown guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/death-warrant-gautam-gambhir-shreds-cm-kejriwal-over-delhi-relaxations/story-ejQZOrtqubF3BmmcrgWr6L.html
18-05-2020||India||Top UK award for India’s national hydrographer||Vice Admiral Vinay Badhwar has been presented the 2019 Alexander Dalrymple Award in recognition of his “outstanding contribution” to Indian hydrography and across the wider Indian Ocean region, official sources said here on Monday.First awarded by the UK Hydrography Office (UKHO) in 2006, the award is named after the first hydrographer of the Admiralty. Recipients are selected for their efforts in raising the standards of hydrography, cartography and navigation around the world.Vice Admiral Badhwar, who joined the Indian Navy in 1982, has extensive hydrographic surveying experience, including work in the Gulfs of Kutch and Khambhat, and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands – widely recognised as some of the most challenging environments to survey in the world.In his role as India’s national hydrographer, Vice Admiral Badhwar has been a key member of the International Hydrographic Organisation’s capacity building sub-committee since its creation. He also leads the Indian Naval Hydrographic Office’s regional capacity building programmes.The UKHO said his contribution to the sustainable development of Indian Ocean coastal economies was recognised in 2019, when he received the Ati Vishisht Seva Medal for ‘distinguished service of an exceptional order during peacetime’.Rear Admiral Peter Sparkes, UK’s national hydrographer, said: “Vice Admiral Badhwar is a true champion of the hydrographic profession. He has helped to unlock the economic potential of marine geospatial data and further hydrographic science in both India and the wider Indian Ocean region”.“The important capacity building contribution of our friends and partners at the Indian Naval Hydrographic Office, who work in concert with the IHO, is helping to usher in a safer, more prosperous and more sustainable world”.Vice Admiral Badhwar said on receiving the award: “This recognition would not have been possible without the support of my colleagues in the National Hydrographic Department, who worked tirelessly towards achieving the goals set forth by the United Nations and IHO”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-uk-award-for-india-s-national-hydrographer/story-0hprEsvCxLrBe0iZ7wlgVP.html
18-05-2020||India||BJP chief J P Nadda accuses opposition states of silencing dissent||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda in a series of tweets on Monday lashed out at opposition ruled states for “unfairly targeting” the party workers and said it was unbecoming of “those in power” to silence dissent.“In the last few days, it has been observed that in opposition ruled states, the state machinery has been used unfairly to target BJP workers and independent voices on social media, critical of the local government’s handling of Covid. In a vibrant democracy, this is unacceptable,” he said in a tweet. In the last few days, it has been observed that in opposition ruled states, the state machinery has been used unfairly to target BJP workers and independent voices on social media, critical of the local government's handling of Covid. In a vibrant democracy, this is unacceptable.The BJP president went on to say that the culture of debate and criticism of those in public life is an integral part of our democratic process. “…but using state agencies at your disposal to silence dissent is unbecoming of those in power. Opposition should adhere to political arguments, when questioned on their failing,” he said in a second tweet. Culture of debate and criticism of those in public life is an integral part of our democratic process but using state agencies at your disposal to silence dissent is unbecoming of those in power. Opposition should adhere to political arguments, when questioned on their failing. I want to assure every BJP worker, supporter & well wisher, who is being targeted by those scared of their unprincipled politics getting exposed, that the BJP stands with you. We will defend your right to free speech and resist these tyrannical forces in the democratic framework.Nadda took no names in his tweets.The BJP has been at odds with the Mamata Banerjee government in West Bengal, and several party MPs have complained of not being allowed to step out and join relief work during the Covid-19 pandemic.Union home minister Amit Shah had also written to Banerjee last week, stating that her government was not allowing special trains and it was “injustice” to migrant workers stuck there.The BJP and the Trinamool Congress have been at loggerheads over sharing of information about the casualty numbers in Bengal and the steps being taken to contain the spread of the virus. Words were also exchanged between the Congress governments in Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh over running of Shramik Special trains for taking migrant workers to their native states. While the BJP at the Centre accused states of not giving permission to requisition trains, the states refuted the allegation and said their lists were pending with the railway ministry.In April, Bankura MP Subhas Sarkar was booked under different sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act (DMA), 2005, for allegedly spreading false alarms while MP from Alipurduars, John Barla, complained of being put under ‘house arrest’ by the district administration.While Nadda did not specify any incident or state, he assured his party workers and said, “I want to assure every BJP worker, supporter & well wisher, who is being targeted by those scared of their unprincipled politics getting exposed, that the BJP stands with you. We will defend your right to free speech and resist these tyrannical forces in the democratic framework.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-chief-j-p-nadda-accuses-opposition-states-of-silencing-dissent/story-O8M9kXRNbcgmSom9qMzd8H.html
18-05-2020||India||Cab aggregator Uber makes masks mandatory for riders, drivers; updates policies||Cab aggregator Uber on Monday said it will introduce a set of rules, including mandatory use of face masks for both the driver and rider in Uber cabs in India during a ride. The move coincides with the Delhi government’s announcement on Monday allowing certain relaxations in the fourth phase of the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19.“Beginning today, drivers and riders will have to wear face masks if they are using Uber in India and in most other countries where Uber operates,” Uber Global Senior Director Product Management Sachin Kansal said.He added that this is part of Covid-19 specific safety features and policies being introduced to ensure safety of drivers and riders.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced the resumption of public transport such as buses, taxis and auto-rickshaws. Depending on the decision of states, ride-hailing platforms like Uber and Ola will resume services in various locations and follow the standard operating procedures (SOPs).ALSO READ | Delhi allows buses, taxis, autorickshaws; odd-even for shops in markets“Auto-rickshaws, cycle rickshaws will be allowed to ply with only one passenger. Taxis and cabs will be allowed with two passengers while maxi-cabs will carry five passengers,” he said.These new policies by cab aggregators have been rolled out globally, and will be enhanced and revised as needed to ensure a safer experience for all, Kansal added.Before they go online on the platform, driver-partners will be asked to confirm - via a new Go Online Checklist - that they’ve taken certain safety measures and are wearing a face mask. They will also have to upload a selfie wearing a face mask, and Uber’s new technology will verify the identity of the driver.A similar checklist has been built for riders and before every trip; the rider will have to confirm that they’ve taken precautions like wearing a face mask, and have washed or sanitised their hands. Kansal said new options for feedback have also been added for both rider and driver to inform the company if the other party was not wearing a mask or face cover.The cancellation policy has also been updated to allow drivers and riders to cancel trips if they don’t feel safe, including if a user is not wearing a mask or face cover. To allow for space between the driver and rider during a ride, Uber is advising riders not to sit in the front seat, and only two riders will be allowed in the rear seat of the car.Both app-based cab aggregators Uber and Ola had suspended operations after the government announced a nationwide lockdown from March 25 to contain the spread of coronavirus. After 40 days of lockdown, some relaxations were provided in the third phase of the lockdown from May 4, including allowing cab services to operate with conditions in locations that have very few or no confirmed cases of Covid-19 (orange and green zones).As part of lockdown 4.0 beginning Monday, the Centre has also allowed interstate travel though air travel and metro services continue to remain suspended till May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cab-aggregator-uber-makes-masks-mandatory-for-riders-drivers-updates-policies/story-4bttpT7IjLwb2ce1AdUQYK.html
18-05-2020||India||Assam CM orders inquiry into allegations of irregularities in PM-KISAN scheme||Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Monday ordered an inquiry into growing allegations of irregularities in the implementation of the Pradhan Mantri-Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme in the state. Additional state chief secretary Jishnu Barua has been entrusted the task of probing the scam, which allegedly involved the inclusion of names of bogus beneficiaries for the central government-run scheme, and submit a report within one month.Around 31 lakh farmers from Assam have been earmarked to get a cash grant of Rs 6,000 -- to be paid in three equal monthly instalments of Rs 2,000 each -- in a bid to compensate for their losses suffered due to the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Congress’s Assam president Ripun Bora had alleged last week that the panchayat representatives entrusted to make the list of beneficiaries had included names of ineligible people, including their own family members. He had demanded that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) conducts an inquiry into the scam.The All Assam Students Union (AASU) had also written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking a probe into the irregularities.“The deputy commissioners (DCs) of all the districts have been directed to verify the genuineness of beneficiary lists, the authenticity of eligibility of beneficiaries, bank account details and check duplicity in data entry, etc,” said a release issued from the CM’s office.The DCs have been asked to validate the village-wise beneficiary list through circle officers, panchayat representatives, and village headmen within a month.“The DCs have also been directed to stop further release of payments under the scheme till the preparation of the correct beneficiary list with authenticated bank accounts after deletion of doubtful entries,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cm-orders-inquiry-into-allegations-of-irregularities-in-pm-kisan-scheme/story-1gsE66Kn3ATgWkEHcMevZP.html
18-05-2020||India||Yogi Adityanath to deploy buses, use trains to bring back migrants home||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday asked all the states to send details of migrant workers from the state stuck in various parts of the country since the lockdown first came into effect on March 24.Additional chief Secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said the government will bring migrants by train from distant states, say, in South India, while buses will be deployed to bring migrants from the neighbouring states.The move comes after Priyanka Gandhi sought permission for Congress party to run 1,000 buses to send migrants back home in UP. The state government has okayed the proposal.The Centre on Sunday extended the nationwide lockdown till May 31. The states, however, have been warned not to dilute restrictions under lockdown phase four.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-s-yogi-adityantah-to-bring-migrants-home-in-buses-trains/story-ccPmIDHWbvtHg8TeS1yQ3M.html
18-05-2020||India||Congress moves to set its house in order in MP but hurdles remain||Nearly two months after it lost power in Madhya Pradesh, the Congress has started restructuring and is drafting a strategy to take on the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in crucial by-elections to 24 assembly seats later this year despite no let-up in internal strife.The process started with Congress president Sonia Gandhi accepting the resignation of Deepak Babaria, the general secretary in-charge of Madhya Pradesh, and naming senior leader Mukul Wasnik as his replacement last month.Babaria, who hailed from Gujarat and was considered close to former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, cited ill-health as the reason for his resignation.But his exit was inevitable after former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia quit the Congress to join the BJP in March. Scindia had repeatedly flagged his concerns about the Congress government’s failure to implement the party manifesto or pre-poll promises. Twenty-two legislators loyal to Scindia also quit the Congress and resigned from the assembly, resulting in the fall of the Kamal Nath government. BJP’s Shivraj Singh Chouhan then took oath as chief minister for the fourth term.As Congress general secretary, Wasnik also oversees party affairs in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. Soon after he assumed the charge of Madhya Pradesh, two new secretaries were named to assist him.CP Mittal, who hails from Delhi, and Kuldeep Indora, a party leader from Rajasthan, were appointed as All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretaries. Both are said to be close to Wasnik.Mittal and Indora replaced Varsha Gaikwad and Harshvardhan Sapkal, while the Congress chief retained Sudhanshu Tripathi and Sanjay Kapoor as the two other AICC secretaries.Wasnik’s immediate challenges are to set the party house in order, try to end factionalism and prepare for crucial by-elections, whenever they are held.Congress leaders in Madhya Pradesh familiar with developments said he had chalked out a plan for the by-polls and started working on it though hurdles remain.Of the 24 seats in which by-elections will be held, 16 are in Gwalior-Chambal region, a stronghold of Scindia.Wasnik is facing a tough task in appointing a Congress legislature party (CLP) leader who will also be leader of opposition (LoP) in the Madhya Pradesh assembly.A Congress functionary said the party had almost finalised the name of senior leader Govind Singh, a close associate of former chief minister Digvijaya Singh, but the move was stalled due to opposition from the Kamal Nath camp, which is pushing the names of Sajjan Verma and Bala Bachchan.Wasnik is expected to take a call on the LoP soon.But the BJP has taken a dig at the Congress and appears confident of winning the by-elections in all 24 seats. “The Congress continues to be a divided house. They are yet to decide the name of the LoP. The infighting between the Digvijay and Kamal Nath camps is on. They have lost everything but have not yet learned the lesson,” said BJP leader Pankaj Chaturvedi.“We will win the by-elections on all the 24 seats and provide a stable government,” he added.Congress leaders have blamed Babaria for his “failure” to resolve internal dissension in the Madhya Pradesh unit, which eventually resulted in the loss of power that the party had regained after 15 years by ousting the BJP in the 2018 assembly elections.Wasnik was one of the front-runners for the Congress president’s post last year after Rahul Gandhi refused to take back his resignation in the wake of the party’s drubbing in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, when it won just 52 seats in the 543-member House against the BJP’s tally of 303.However, the Congress Working Committee (CWC) in its meeting on August 10 last year prevailed on Sonia Gandhi to again assume the reins of the grand old party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-moves-to-set-its-house-in-order-in-mp-but-hurdles-remain/story-rxxbhnRByoTG8w5IdCb6WO.html
18-05-2020||India||Rajasthan reports 173 new Covid-19 cases, overall tally now at 5,375||Rajasthan reported 173 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Monday, as the overall tally in the desert state rose to 5,375.There were reports of two fresh deaths, as the Covid-19 related toll climbed to 133.Most of the new Covid-19 positive cases were reported from districts, where migrants are returning home for other states, including hotspots such as Maharashtra and Gujarat, amid the easing of lockdown restrictions, which were imposed since end-March to contain the spread of Covid-19 outbreak. So far, 588 migrants have tested Covid-19 positive.Dungarpur reported 64 new Covid-19 positive cases and Jaipur 22.Bhilwara, which was on the verge of being declared free from the viral outbreak, has reported 22 fresh cases. Udaipur reported 15 new cases, Barmer (10), Bharatpur, and Bikaner six. Dausa recorded five new cases, Banswara, Sikar, and Pali recorded four cases each, Dholpur (3), Rajsamand and Nagaur two each and Jhunjhunu and Chittorgarh reported one each.Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, health, Rajasthan, said one Covid-19 related death each has been reported from Kota and Nagaur districts. Both the patients died at Jaipur’s Sawai Man Singh Hospital, where they were undergoing treatment.State heath minister Raghu Sharma said that the restrictions in lockdown 4:0, which came into effect from Monday and will be in place till May 31, would be further eased.“We need to get the economy back on track. Efforts are on to ease the lockdown restrictions. We need to fight against the pandemic and at the same time ensure that people can get on with their jobs and economic activities are revived,” the minister said.Sharma said that the central government is evacuating Indian nationals, who are stranded abroad, and those from the state would return next week.The minister said that the state is prepared to follow the centre’s guidelines to quarantine the evacuees from abroad and have identified a few hotels near Jaipur International Airport.“We’ve identified a few hotels near the airport, where these evacuees will have to stay under quarantine for 14 days at their own cost,” he added.The minister warned that there could be a spike in Covid-19 positive cases, as hundreds and thousands of migrants are returning home from hotspots such as Maharashtra and Gujarat.He also pointed out the state could take a heart from the fact that over 3,000 people have recovered and its recovery rate is double than the national average.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-reports-173-new-covid-19-cases-overall-tally-now-at-5-375/story-ZAfCcJZTOGd4qUqh8rQn9L.html
18-05-2020||India||PM reviews preparedness for cyclone Amphan, says ‘praying for everyone’s safety’||PM Narendra Modi on Monday held a meeting with the ministry of home affairs (MHA) and the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) to review the response measures against cyclone ‘Amphan’ developing in the Bay of Bengal. Cyclone Amphan has now intensified into a super cyclonic storm and is likely to move across the northeast Bay of Bengal, and cross the West Bengal and Bangladesh coasts between Digha and the Hatia Island on May 20, according to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD).“Reviewed the preparedness regarding the situation due to cyclone ‘Amphan.’ The response measures as well as evacuation plans were discussed. I pray for everyone’s safety and assure all possible support from the Central Government, the Prime Minister said in a tweet. The cyclone, which is likely to make the landfall on Wednesday, could ravage east Medinipur, south and north 24 Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Kolkata districts in West Bengal, the IMD has warned. Prime Minister took full stock of the situation and reviewed the response preparedness as well as the evacuation plan presented by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF). In the meeting, DG NDRF informed that 25 NDRF teams have been deployed on the ground while 12 others are ready in reserve. Twenty four other NDRF teams have also are also been kept on standby in different parts of the country.Union home minister Amit Shah, Principal Advisor to the Prime Minister PK Sinha Principal, and Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba were present at the meeting along with other senior government officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reviews-plan-to-tackle-cyclone-amphan-25-ndrf-teams-deployed/story-BQvDsDOd7rCoYtatoSO7BJ.html
18-05-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi takes dig at PM Modi on MGNREGA||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Monday took a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his “U-turn” on the MGNREGA scheme, and thanked him for allocating an additional Rs 40,000 crore for it.“The Prime Minister has approved an additional budget of Rs 40,000 crore for the MNREGA scheme created during the UPA era. We express our gratitude to him for understanding the vision of MNREGA and promoting it,” he tweeted in Hindi.On Sunday, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced the fifth and final tranche of the Centre’s stimulus package to revive the Covid-19-hit economy. The government allocated an additional Rs 40,000 crore to the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), over and above the Rs 61,000 crore budgeted earlier.The announcement came at a time when the nationwide lockdown has forced migrant workers to walk thousands of kilometres back to their home states. Gandhi used the hashtag – “ModiUturnOnMNREGA” – as he put out a video clip of Modi’s speech in the Lok Sabha after he assumed power in 2014.“Do you think I will disband the scheme? My political wisdom does not allow me to do it. This is a living monument of your failures to tackle poverty in 60 years,” Modi had said about MGNREGA in his speech in Parliament in February 2015.Modi also said that even after 60 years of independence, the Congress had to send people to dig ditches and pay them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-takes-dig-at-pm-modi-on-mgnrega/story-96DwR4IEFn9Vahtuf9UXCL.html
18-05-2020||India||Stringent action will be taken against LG Polymers: Andhra CM||Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday asserted that stringent action would be taken against the South Korean firm, LG Polymers India Ltd, whose alleged negligence led to the leak of toxic styrene gas from its plant at Visakhapatnam on May 7, claiming 12 lives and over 500 people falling sick.While, the National Green Tribunal (NGT), which was scheduled to conduct a hearing on the Visakhapatnam gas tragedy on Monday, deferred it to June 1 as the experts’ committee, which was constituted by the NGT, sought more time to submit its report.The expert appraisal committee of the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change will conduct a separate hearing in New Delhi on Tuesday over reports that LG Polymers had been operating its plant without obtaining the mandatory green nod from the ministry for expanding its capacity from 415 tonnes per day (TPD) to 655 TPD.CM Reddy, who held a video conference with the officials and some of those affected by the gas leak, said that the South Korean firm would be held responsible for the tragedy, and action would be taken against its errant employees.“We’ve appointed committees at district and state-level, respectively. The Centre, too, has appointed three panels. We’ll seek explanations from the company after the panels submit their separate reports. We’ll take appropriate action based on the company’s response. We’ll give the firm a week’s time to respond,” the CM said.He said the company, which was given permission during the previous N. Chandrababu Naidu regime to operate, would not be allowed to function. We’ve ensured that the raw material styrene gas, which caused the industrial disaster, is sent back to South Korea,” the CM said.LG Polymers on Monday announced that it had successfully shipped Styrene Monomer (SM) inventory from its plant in Visakhapatnam to Seoul.The firm’s managing director (MD), Jeong Sunkey, said no styrene gas is left at the plant.“We’re trying to ascertain the cause of the accident, prevent its re-occurrence, and most importantly provide assistance to the families of the deceased and injured,” the MD said.The company’s immediate focus is to provide assistance to the people living in and around the plant and help them restart their normal lives at the earliest, he added.The MD informed that a team of technical experts from the company’s headquarters at Seoul had arrived at Visakhapatnam to take part in the rehabilitation process.“We’ve commissioned a special task force consisting of more than 200 people to support the affected families,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stringent-action-will-be-taken-against-lg-polymers-andhra-cm/story-zP8ediC8L9nsvANU03ZApO.html
18-05-2020||India||Delhi allows buses, taxis, autorickshaws; odd-even for shops in markets||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced steps to restart the economy amid relaxation in the fourth phase of the lockdown to tackle the spread of Covid-19.“We have to open our economy gradually. All industries will be allowed to reopen in Delhi. Construction activities will restart but only local workers will be allowed. Workers beyond Delhi’s borders will not be allowed,” he said in a video address.Containment zones will continue to remain sealed. “There will be no activities in containment zones except for essential services,” he said.All private offices will be allowed to reopen in the national capital but the Kejriwal said he would encourage employees to work from home.All shops will reopen with odd-even formula except those selling essential items which will remain open on all days. Restaurants can open but only for take-away food.Kejriwal also announced the resumption of public transport such as buses, taxis and autorickshaws.“Autorickshaw, cycle rickshaw will be allowed to ply with only one passenger. Taxi and cabs will be allowed to two passengers while maxicabs will carry five passengers,” he said.“Buses will carry a maximum of 20 passengers who will be screened before boarding. The transport department will ensure social distancing.”Two wheelers will be allowed without any pillion.The announcements came as Delhi’s Covid-19 tally soared past 10,000.“Delhi has reported 10,054 cases of Covid-19 out of which 4,485 people have been cured. One hundred and sixty people have died so far,” Kejriwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-allows-buses-taxis-autorickshaws-odd-even-for-shops-in-markets/story-GxrOJFpzti75M1Zav3nlUO.html
18-05-2020||India||In Bengal’s lockdown 4.0 guidelines, no official curfew at night: Mamata||The West Bengal government on Monday extended lockdown in the state till May 31, but with one key exception. There will be no official night curfew in West Bengal, but people are requested not to venture out after 7 pm, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said announcing Bengal’s lockdown 4.0 guidelines.“There will be no official night curfew in West Bengal, but people are requested not to venture out after 7 pm. Hawkers will be allowed to reopen shops in non-containment zones in Bengal from May 27,” Banerjee said.Extending the ongoing lockdown till May 31 in West Bengal, the Chief Minister announced a slew of relaxations and said her government will not impose night curfew in the state as proposed by the Centre.She said hawkers, salons and parlour owners will be allowed to reopen their shops from May 27.The West Bengal CM said that apart from 105 trains, which the state has already requisitioned, the state government will request the railways for 120 more Shramik Special trains in the next few days to bring back migrant labourers stranded in other states.“We won’t officially declare night curfew because people are already under a lot of stress. We do not want to increase their suffering. But we will request people not to venture out of their homes between 7 pm and 7 am or else police will take action,” she elaborated.In West Bengal, containment zones will be divided into three categories-- affected zones, buffer zones and clean zones, she said. The zones under containment are expected to be divided into segments based on high and low levels of infection.Lockdown.4.0 in West Bengal will continue till May 31. But there will be a few more relaxations in the coming days. Hawkers and markets will be allowed to reopen from next week and the inter-district bus service will also begin soon, Banerjee said.Standalone shops in non-containment and green zones are likely to remain open in Bengal from 7 am to 6 pm, a senior government official said.The Centre on Sunday extended the lockdown for two more weeks till May 31, with the fourth phase providing more relaxations outside the containment zones including inter-state movement of buses with mutual consent of states that is expected to be of immediate relief for thousands of migrant workers on the roads.The Ministry of Home Affairs on Sunday night said the fresh guidelines for the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown were issued after taking the opinion of the state governments following a video conference held by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with the chief ministers on May 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bengal-s-lockdown-4-0-guidelines-no-official-curfew-at-night-mamata/story-6c7mCjAZPQHIBKH7whT59K.html
18-05-2020||India||Lockdown 4.0: What’s allowed, what’s not in Delhi||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who has been saying it’s time to reopen Delhi, on Monday addressed a press conference laying out his plan for the city-state capital in this phase four of the nationwide lockdown.In phase four, states will now categorise red, orange and green zones taking into consideration the revised guidelines issued by the ministry of health. Inside these zones, containment and buffer zones will be identified by the district administration. In containment zones, only essential services will be allowed.Earlier today, the states and union territories were advised against diluting restrictions under the lockdown 4.0 guidelines issued by the Centre. Here’s what is allowed in Delhi Buses are allowed to run but with only 20 passengers at a time. Passengers will be screened before he/she boards the bus. Transport Dept will ensure that social distancing norms are followed at all bus-stops and inside the busConstruction activities are allowed, but only with labourers who are in Delhi right nowPrivate offices can open at full strength but they should try that most of the employees work from home. Markets can open but shops will open on odd-even basisSports complexes and stadiums can open but without spectatorsHere’s what is not allowed Barber shops, spas and saloons to remain closed Stepping out of homes between 7 pm to 7 am, except for essential services will be prohibited. Taxis & cabs will be allowed but only 2 passengers at a time||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-4-0-what-s-allowed-what-s-not-in-delhi/story-qtatu7DxemfYkpZGkvRZHK.html
18-05-2020||India||Lockdown 4.0: Complete list of activities that are not allowed in Delhi||In his address on the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the national capital, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said that religious gatherings will remain barred in Delhi till May 31.The chief minister said that barbershops, spa, saloon and restaurants will also be closed amid the fourth phase of the Covid-19 lockdown while public transport like buses and auto rickshaws will be allowed to operate with conditions.Elderly people above the age of 65, children below 10 years of age, pregnant women and those with existing health conditions like diabetes, cancer are not advised to step out of their homes unless very urgent. Here is a complete list of activities that are still not allowed in the national capital amid Covid-19 lockdown 4.0.• Delhi Metro operations will remain suspended.• Religious places of worship will also not be allowed to open. Religious gatherings shall not be allowed. • All schools, colleges, coaching and training institutes, among other educational institutes shall remain shut.• Carpooling or car-sharing will not be allowed for aggregators. • Taxi and cabs shall resume services but will not carry more than two passengers. • Gramin seva, fat-fat seva vehicles to not carry more than two passengers. Only five passengers in Maxi cabs. “The driver is to ensure that the vehicle is disinfected after passengers deboard and the seating area is disinfected for the next passenger,” Kejriwal said. • Not more than 50 guests are allowed at marriage functions. Funerals to not see more than 20 people in attendance. • No movement will be between 7 pm to 7 am except in case of an emergency or for essential services.Also read: What’s allowed, what’s not in Delhi• Hotels, cinema halls, shopping malls, gymnasium, swimming pools, entertainment parks shall remain shut. • Barbershops, spas and saloons to remain closed.•Theatres, movie halls, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls shall also not open amid the fourth phase of the lockdown. • Restaurants will remain shut for dine-in purposes, can operate kitchen for home delivery. Also read: Delhi govt allows DTC buses, autos; Metro remains shut. All details• Social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious or any kind of large gatherings shall not be allowed, the chief minister said.• Not more than one passenger will be allowed in auto-rickshaws, e-rickshaws and cycle-rickshaws.• For two-wheelers, pillion rider will not be allowed. • There will be no activity allowed in Covid-19 containment zones except for essential purposes.• Not more than 20 passengers at a time shall be allowed in buses.The chief minister, uding his address, said that the number of cases in the national capital is on the rise but the rate of recovery is also good. “45% of patients in Delhi have recovered so far,” Kejriwal said. He also said that the outbreak is not likely to come to an end in a month or two. “We need to start living with this virus,” the CM said. As many as 10,054 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. One hundred and sixty people have died from the infection while 4485 have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-4-0-list-of-activities-not-allowed-in-delhi-as-per-cm-kejriwal-s-address/story-wGzUGBZ7R0dwDhjRbladIL.html
18-05-2020||India||Vice President Venkaiah Naidu’s 12- point new normal for life in times of coronavirus||Vice President Venkaiah Naidu has underlined the need to adopt new ways of living in the times of coronavirus and suggested a 12 point framework for this “new normal” to deal with the virus.In a Facebook post, he stressed on the need for new attitudes towards life and humanity amidst indications of the virus likely to stay for longer than earlier expected.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here In a lengthy post after the government extended the lockdown on Sunday evening, Naidu dealt with the philosophical and moral issues thrown by the Covid-19 pandemic and the way life needs to be lived henceforth. The Vice President underlined that life cannot be lived in isolation and the virus outbreak highlighted the inter-connectedness of lives.“..what affects one person anywhere affects everyone everywhere, be it the disease or economy,” he wrote.Naidu stated that man has emerged a loner in his quest for happiness and material advancement reducing the family and the society to being mere adjuncts and his confidence bordering on arrogance made him believe that he can live alone and all by himself, unmindful of the lives of others.“Stacked with better tools to fight the epidemics than when the pestilence struck humanity earlier and empowered with gene editing, Artificial Intelligence, big data etc, man was seeking to play God,” he said in the FB post.On the life after the pandemic, Naidu noted that it has shaken the fundamentals of living by oneself and highlighted the need for living in harmony with nature and fellow humans.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “The invisible microbe once again proved that life can change very quick. It brought into full play the uncertainty that can co-sail with life,” he observed. He suggested that staying calm and confident could help address the anxiety brought about by the pandemic.“Uncertainty continues to haunt the people. Uncertainty is the known source of anxiety which can lead to psychological issues. How to deal with this problem? To stay calm and be confident and adopt a new normal of life”.Naidu said that the coronavirus challenge is more a civilizational issue than that of individual lives and new norms and ethos of living should be evolved to save the present civilization.He urged the people to learn to cope with coronavirus by changing the habits and attitudes towards life and fellow humans, if the virus stays with the people for longer than expected.He suggested a 12-point new normal of living during corona times.They include living in harmony with nature and fellow beings, knowing that safety and security of lives are interconnected, rationally analyzing the impact of every movement or action on the spread of virus, not responding impulsively to the situation and instead living in confidence keeping faith in science which can come up with a solution to the problem, strict adherence to behavioral changes ushered in so far like wearing mask, maintaining physical distance and ensuring hygiene, preventing stigmatization so that the infected volunteer for treatment, checking disinformation and prejudices against fellow citizens as carriers of the virus and replacing the sense of collective helplessness by the spirit of the virtue of living interconnected with shared destiny.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vice-president-venkaiah-naidu-s-12-point-new-normal-for-life-in-times-of-coronavirus/story-BkLQCrbGdrI6PHhElMqnxH.html
18-05-2020||India||Locally-made ventilators not good enough, say Gujarat officials||Authorities in the civil hospital in Ahmedabad, Gujarat’s worst coronavirus-hit city, have said ventilators built by a firm in Rajkot and supplied free of cost in large numbers to government facilities last month were not giving “desired results” on COVID-19 patients.State Health principal secretary Jayanti Ravi said the ventilators, with the brand name ‘Dhaman-1’, supplied at a time when there is huge demand for them due to the virus outbreak, will be upgraded by the manufacturing firm.Ahmedabad Civil Hospital Medical Superintendent JV Modi had written to the managing director of Gandhinagar-based Gujarat Medical Services Corporation Limited (GMSCL) for 50 ‘high-end’ ICU ventilators for the 1,200-bed COVID-19 facility, the largest of its kind in the state.The letter comes at a time when the hospital has been given 230 ‘Dhaman-1’ ventilators, which a doctor here said cannot be termed “high end”.Quoting the head of the anesthesia department of the BJ Medical College, affiliated to the Civil Hospital, Modi said, in the letter dated May 15, that they are not getting “desired result” from Dhaman-1 and AGVA ventilators (both indigenously produced) on COVID-19 patients.“We have placed demand for 50 high-end ICU ventilators each for COVID Hospital and Kidney Hospital. With rising coronavirus cases, we need more number of ventilators, as per the demand received by head of anesthesia department,” Modi said.Amid global shortage of high-end ventilators during the outbreak, Rajkot-based Jyoti CNC Automation had developed low-cost ventilators in just 10 days in early April, and offered 1,000 pieces free-of-cost to the state government under CSR.These ventilators were supplied to government hospitals across the state to meet rising demand, Principal Secretary (Health), Jayanti Ravi said.“The ventilator was tested and approved by Electronics and Quality Development Centre (EQDC). Our expert doctors also approved it,” Ravi said.She said accessories like high-flow nasal canula, oxygen flow meter, circuits and humidifier would be incorporated in them to make them more effective, she said.Civil Hospital Head of anesthesia Shailesh Shah said Dhaman-1 ventilator in its present form is not as good as what one would term a “high-end ventilator”.“Luckily, until now, we used these ventilators on very few occasions, as high-end ventilators were available with us in enough numbers. Dhaman-1 is not a good replacement for high-end ventilators, but it can be used in dire emergency when you have nothing else at hand,” said Shah.Over the past week, however, the number of coronavirus patients requiring ventilator support has been increasing at the hospital, and depending on Dhaman-1 units was not a good idea, he claimed.“We had around 100 ventilators in a 150-bed ICU of COVID hospital. With increasing demand, we have managed to source around 45-47 high-end ventilators from other medical colleges in Gujarat.“The problem is good quality ventilators are not available in the market. It is very difficult for us or for the government to procure such ventilators. In such a situation, we have to compromise with the lower version,” he said.Till Sunday evening, Ahmedabad district reported 8,420 coronavirus positive cases, with 524 having died of the infection. The number of active cases stands at 5,236.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/locally-made-ventilators-not-good-enough-say-gujarat-officials/story-4J2uJJlp2C1vhp9za3cbyK.html
18-05-2020||India||Telangana’s daily rate of 225 Covid-19 tests far behind Andhra’s 9,000||At a time when Andhra Pradesh has been conducting an average of 9,000 tests for Covid-19 every day, the number of samples being tested in the neighbouring Telugu state of Telangana has been abysmally low – an average of 225 samples a day.This figure came to light on Sunday night when the Telangana medical and health department officials disclosed the data analytics of testing as on May 16 to explain the gender and age distribution among the positive cases for Covid-19.According to G Srinivasa Rao, director of medical and health, Telangana government, the cumulative number of samples tested as on May 16 was 23,388. Out of that figure, 947 males tested positive and 14,256 tested negative, 566 females tested positive and 7,619 tested negative.Among the positive cases including both male and female, 218 cases belong to the age group of 0-15 years, 434 are from the age group of 16-30 years, 406 are from age group of 31-45 years, 301 cases are from the age group of 46-60 and 151 cases are of above 60 years of age.The last time the department released the figures of cumulative number of tests done in the state was on April 28, when Telangana health minister Eatala Rajender addressed a press conference and disclosed that 19,303 tests were conducted till that date.Taking into account the latest figures of 23,388 samples tested, the total number of tests conducted between April 28 and May 16 was 4085 – an average of 226 cases per day.Interestingly, a statement from the office of the health minister said the total number of tests conducted in the state as on May 14 was 22,842. It meant 546 tests were done in a span of 48 hours – an average of 273 per day, showing that the testing has slightly improved in the last three days.The first Covid-19 cases was reported in Telangana on March 2 and it was only after March 15 that the government released figures about the number of samples tested – 22 samples on March 15 and the figure went up to 764 on March 24, when Tablighi Jamaat episode came to light. After that the Telangana government stopped releasing the data of samples tested for Covid-19.The health minister has been refusing to divulge the data stating that the number of samples being tested was not a parameter for the spread of the virus, but the number of positive cases that were detected in the testing.Till Sunday evening, Telangana had 1,551 Covid-19 cases 34 deaths. The number of active cases is 525 cases while the others have recovered.“We do not want to do indiscriminate testing of people just for the sake of figures. We have been conducting tests as per the ICMR guidelines only on those having genuine symptoms and also with co-morbid conditions, apart from those who had been the primary contacts of the positive cases,” Rajender said.He further said thought there are private labs that have got permission from ICMR to conduct the tests for Covid-19, the state government did not give the clearance because it would lead to these labs fleecing of people even if they had mild symptoms. “Each test costs around Rs 5,000 and we do not want the people to be fleeced,” he said.In Andhra Pradesh, however, the testing of samples for Covid-19 has been stepped up in the last one month, after the state health department began using Trunat rapid testing kits, besides RT-PCR testing. The AP government has also imported two lakh rapid test kits from South Korea, which are also being used for random testing during a door-to-door survey.According to state nodal officer for Covid-19 Arja Sreekanth, 2,48,711 samples have been tested as on Monday. Andhra Pradesh has reported 2,432 Covid-19 cases so far, including 150 migrant labourers. There have been 50 Covid-19 casualties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-s-daily-rate-of-225-covid-19-tests-far-behind-andhra-s-9-000/story-mitHGU9YS0cJL8iYuDKncL.html
18-05-2020||India||Quest for cure: Are scientists, experts closing in on Covid-19 vaccine?||With over 4 million people infected by coronavirus across the world, and more than 3 lakh people dead, the need for Covid-19 vaccine grows more urgent by the day. According to the World Health Organization, 8 candidate vaccines are currently in the clinical evaluation phase for Covid-19. China-based CanSino Biologics, American biotechnology company Moderna, Inc., the University of Oxford, US-based Inovio Pharmaceuticals are some of the top contenders in the race to developing coronavirus vaccines. According to the World Health Organization, more than 110 candidates are in the preclinical evaluation phase. Cansino Biologics has received clinical trial application approval for recombinant novel coronavirus vaccine, news agency Reuters reported. CanSino will develop the vaccine in collaboration with the Beijing Institute of Biotechnology. Moderna Inc.’s experimental candidate vaccine, mRNA-1273, recently received approval from the US FDA to conduct the phase II of its clinical trial. Also read: What did eight weeks and $3 trillion buy the Covid-19 in the fight against coronavirus?The University of Oxford has come to positive results with its Covid-19 vaccine candidate which involves six rhesus macaque monkeys. Experts at the university exposed the monkeys to the SARS-CoV-2 virus. The trial showed improvement and offered hope as the vaccinated monkeys had less virus in their lungs and airways. Rhesus macaque monkeys have immune systems similar to humansInovio Pharmaceuticals is currently testing INO-4800 (a DNA plasmid vaccine with electroporation) as a vaccine against coronavirus. The trial aims to test the vaccine’s ability to trigger an immune response in the body to fight coronavirus.Besides these, clinical trials for Covid-19 vaccine by three other contenders are under the clinical evaluation phase. These include trials led by Wuhan Institute of Biological Products/Sinopharm, Beijing Institute of Biological Products/Sinopharm and Sinovac. Sinopharm Group is a Chinese pharmaceutical giant.Also read: China’s Wuhan nearly doubles number of Covid-19 tests per dayThese trials are on “inactivated” type of vaccine candidate wherein non-living pathogens are used to develop an immune response in the body against the target.Last week, Jubilant Life Sciences Limited, an integrated global pharmaceutical and life sciences company, said that its subsidiary, Jubilant Generics Limited, has entered into a non-exclusive licensing agreement with Gilead Sciences that will grant Jubilant the right to register, manufacture and sell Gilead’s investigational drug remdesivir, a potential therapy for Covid-19 in 127 countries including India. Remdesivir is only allowed for emergency usage by the US FDA to treat Covid-19. India’s spotIndian multinational pharmaceutical and biotechnology company, Cipla Limited is reported to have been working on various multiple therapies for treating coronavirus. The Mumbai-based company is working out the finer details of its pact with Gilead Sciences Inc on the experimental antiviral drug remdesivir, chief financial officer Kedar Upadhye told HT’s business publication Mint in an interview.Meanwhile, experts at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Bhopal have said that the institute has been conducting drug trials for coronavirus treatment which have shown promising results.The trials of the drug Mycobacterium W (Mw) were conducted on Covid-19 patients at AIIMS Bhopal for the last few days, an official said.“So far, three Covid-19 patients have recovered after the clinical trial of Mycobacterium W (Mw) at AIIMS,” director of the institute Dr Sarman Singh said.Singh said that the institute will soon use Favipiravir, a drug agent used in Japan for Covid-19, news agency PTI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quest-for-cure-are-scientists-experts-closing-in-on-covid-19-vaccine/story-GBBNpfFKGDONYJLhjUUiqL.html
18-05-2020||India||Wayanad’s giant jackfruit eyeing entry into Guinness book||A massive jackfruit, weighing over 52 kg and 117 cm long, is eyeing to enter the Guinness record book. The fruit was found in a private plantation at Kappattumula in nearby Mananthavady and is likely to replace the existing Guinness record of the heaviest jackfruit globally. Another giant jackfruit, weighing 51.500 kg, from Kollam, is also vying for the record books. As on date, the worlds heaviest jackfruit according to the Guinness came from India, the fruit weighed 42.72 kg and was 57.15-cm long with a circumference of 132.08 cm. The 52-kg ripe fruit attracted the attention of residents who plucked it carefully and informed the panchayat officials. The panchayat informed the Department of Agriculture as to verify the claim and officially inform the Guiness World Record authorities. Agricultural officer K G Sunil said necessary documentation was completed on Monday and it would be sent to the Guinness authorities. The fruit, weighing 52.360 kg, is 117 cm long and has a circumference of77 cm, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wayanad-s-giant-jackfruit-eyeing-entry-into-guinness-book/story-YfHrOwXKUg5clK6D7DldfJ.html
18-05-2020||India||Tamil Nadu CM K Palaniswami fumes at Centre over “unreasonable” riders to nod for more borrowing||In a rather unusual outburst against the Centre, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Monday said the conditions put forth by the Union government for additional borrowing were onerous, unreasonable, lacked consensus and above all not in keeping with the spirit of co- operative federalism.Flagging electricity distribution reform as ‘politically sensitive,’ the Chief Minister strongly opposed snapping free power supply to farmers and made it categorical that the mode of disbursement of subsidy should be left to the State governments and batted for “greater latitude” to states to implement reforms.One of the conditions of the Centre to states to increase their borrowing limit was discontinuation of free electricity to farmers.The Centre, as part of the conditions, has asked states to switch to Direct Benefit Transfer instead.Free power distribution to farmers is among the initiatives over which both the Dravidian majors -AIADMK and DMK- have vied with each other to take credit for helping the peasants.Drawing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s attention to the “onerous conditions attached to the additional borrowing limits,” approved for States by the Finance Ministry, he said in a letter that States sought the additional borrowing limit, beyond 3 per cent of GSDP mainly because of the significant shortfall in revenues due to the lockdown.“There are also large additional expenditure commitments. These are borrowings by the state government, which have to be repaid from future tax revenues of the states. They are not grants from the Centre. To attach needlessly demanding conditionalities to the additional borrowing requirements appears to be unreasonable,” Palaniswami said.Aggressively pushing a reform agenda on which “a consensus is yet to be developed, at a time when States have approached the Centre for additional borrowing out of sheer desperation, is not in keeping with the spirit of co-operative federalism,” he said taking a firm position.Ideally, a consensus should have been evolved by the Centre following detailed deliberations with the States on proposed reforms, the Chief Minister said adding reforms may have been linked to special Central COVID-1 grants, and not to additional borrowing by the State.“Linking the Central government’s power under Article 293 (3) of the Constitution to permit additional borrowing by the States to conditionalities, is unprecedented,” he said.As per the Constitutional provision “a State may not without the consent of the Government of India raise any loan...” In some of the four major areas of reform required by the Centre to avail additional borrowing, the state government has already undertaken reforms without expecting any financial assistance.There are, however, some areas, like “power distribution reforms, which are politically sensitive. These issues have been repeatedly raised by me in communications to the Prime Minister as well. I have raised the issue in the context of the proposed changes in the Electricity Act. Our government is strongly opposed to the idea of removing the free power supply to farmers. It has been our stand that the mode of disbursement of subsidy should be left to the State governments themselves,” he said.Since a consensus was yet to emerge on these issues, the Chief Minister requested the Prime Minister to instruct the Finance Ministry to remove the requirements to reform the power sector from the proposed conditionalities and also to “allow greater latitude to states in implementing a reform agenda.” Also, Palaniswami said, “imposing needlessly onerous conditions on borrowings will constrain the state governments in finding funds to meet essential expenditure in the wake of a serious financial situation. I am confident you will appreciate and understand the difficulties that states face at this time and instruct that the necessary changes be made to the relevant guidelines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-cm-k-palaniswami-fumes-at-centre-over-unreasonable-riders-to-nod-for-more-borrowing/story-Wg6kGqjDi5EStH2uAdO0XM.html
18-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ICMR revises strategy for Covid-19 testing and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.ICMR revises strategy for Covid-19 testing in countryThe Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Monday updated its strategy for testing coronavirus disease Covid-19 as the number of infected people crossed 90,000-mark. The revised strategy proposes all symptomatic individuals with history of international travel in the last 14 days to be tested. It also says that all symptomatic contacts of laboratory confirmed cases, healthcare workers at the frontline of battle against Covid-19 and patients of Severe Acute Respiatory Infection or SARI to be tested. Read moreNDRF preps for rescue ops as super cyclone Amphan heads for Odisha, BengalAs Odisha and West Bengal brace for cyclone Amphan, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) said Monday it has boosted its strength to face the twin challenge of the storm and the Covid-19 pandemic. “A total of 37 teams have been deployed by NDRF in West Bengal and Odisha, out of which 20 teams are actively deployed and 17 are on standby in the two states,” NDRF Director General S N Pradhan said in a video message. Read moreChina accuses Indian troops of trespass in Galwan Valley region in Aksai ChinChina on Monday accused India of building “illegal” defence facilities in the Galwan Valley region of the disputed Aksai Chin area, which is controlled by Beijing but claimed by New Delhi. Chinese border troops enhanced control measures in the area, a state media report said quoting an anonymous military source. Read moreOn NREGA outlay, Rahul Gandhi tweets thank you to PM Modi. Then takes a digFormer congress president Rahul Gandhi on Monday thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for approving a 66% jump in the allocated budget for the flagship rural job guarantee scheme initiated during the Congress rule. However, he ended his congratulatory note by taking a dig at the PM for one of his statements regarding the scheme in parliament. Read moreUttar Pradesh okays Priyanka Gandhi’s request for Congress to run 1,000 buses for migrantsThe Uttar Pradesh government on Monday accepted Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi’s request to allow the Congress to run 1,000 buses to ferry migrant workers to their home in the state. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi in a response to the letter wrote that the state government accepts the proposal. He asked the Congress leader to submit details of 1,000 buses, their drivers and conductors so that they could serve the migrant workers. Read moreJapan braces for worst postwar slump as pandemic tips economy into recessionJapan’s economy slipped into recession for the first time in 4-1/2 years in the last quarter, putting the nation on course for its deepest postwar slump as the coronavirus crisis ravages businesses and consumers. Read more World AIDS Vaccine Day 2020: All you need to knowAIDS (Acquired Immuno Deficiency Syndrome) is one of the most serious health conditions to have affected people globally, and there are 2.1 million people living with the condition in India alone. It is caused by the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)which affects the T lymphocytes in the body. The infection can spread from one person to another through sharing of needles, blood, or from unprotected sex. It can also be transmitted from mother to child during pregnancy, delivery, or breastfeeding. Read moreCISCE introduces Project work in ISC 2021 exams for maths, English papersThe Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has decided to introduce a 20-mark project work for subjects English and Mathematics for students who will be taking the Indian School Certificate (ISC) examination in 2021. Earlier the plan was to introduce the project work from ISC year 2022 examination, said a notice issued by the Council. Read moreSatyajit Ray’s sleuth Feluda detects coronavirus disease in an hour. WatchAn accurate and low-cost strip test that can detect the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) within one hour is expected to be available for the first phase of testing in four weeks. Called Feluda, the test is named after a fictional detective created by the late Satyajit Ray, although it is also an acronym for FNCAS9 Editor-Linked Uniform Detection Assay. The test uses CRISPR gene-editing technology to identify and target the genetic material of Sars-CoV2, the virus that causes Covid-19. Watch the video for more details. Read moreCats fight each other on live TV, their journalist mom tries hard to steal focusWho doesn’t remember having fake wrestling matches with their siblings? These pretend-fights usually ended with someone getting actually hurt, physically or emotionally. They also had an added side effect of causing much grief to mom who either had to break the fight, act as a mediator or on some rare occasions pretend she didn’t notice the fight at all. This viral video will remind you of that whole scenario. Only, the fight is between two kitty siblings and the pretending has to be done by their hooman - who just happens to be live on TV at the time. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-icmr-revises-strategy-for-covid-19-testing-and-all-the-latest-news/story-3lqiQp5wUUCmuX6Zx0pVMP.html
18-05-2020||India||India building defence facilities in Galwan Valley region of Aksai Chin: Chinese media||Chinese media on Monday accused India of building “illegal” defence facilities in the Galwan Valley region of the disputed Aksai Chin area, which is controlled by Beijing but claimed by New Delhi.Chinese border troops enhanced control measures in the area, a state media report said quoting an anonymous military source.The latest round of conflict comes days after Indian and Chinese soldiers clashed at a remote site near the Sikkim border, which left troops on both sides injured.The nationalistic tabloid published the report on Monday about the developments in the Galwan region.India and China have an unresolved border dispute that has cast a shadow on ties for decades.Protracted rounds of negotiations have failed to resolve the 3488 km long border dispute between the two neighbours.Troops from the two countries had clashed at the Galwan Valley region ahead of the 1962 war.Neither the Chinese foreign or defence ministries had commented on the latest incident until Monday evening.“In a resolute response to India’s recent, illegal construction of defense facilities across the border into Chinese territory in the Galwan Valley region, Chinese border defense troops have made the necessary moves and enhanced control measures,” the report said, quoting a Chinese military source.China says the area is located in the Hotan prefecture of the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region (XUAR).“Since early May, India has been crossing the boundary line in the Galwan Valley region and entering Chinese territory. The Indian-side built defence fortifications and obstacles to disrupt Chinese border defense troops’ normal patrol activities, purposefully instigated conflicts and attempted to unilaterally change the current border control situation,” the report said.The report said the region belongs to China.“The Galwan Valley region is Chinese territory, and the local border control situation was very clear. The actions by the Indian side have seriously violated China and India’s agreements on border issues, violated China’s territorial sovereignty and harmed military relations between the two countries, according to the source”.“…China’s border defene troops have taken necessary measures to strengthen an on-the-spot response and control of border areas, resolutely safeguarding China’s sovereignty and security and maintaining peace and stability in border areas”.The report added that troops from both sides were in contact with each other about the current situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-accuses-indian-troops-of-trespass-in-galwan-valley-region-in-aksai-chin/story-1m7y4zoQAOPiiHwoDlqNKL.html
18-05-2020||India||Kashmir: SOS appeals on social media generate crores of rupees for people||Last week, Rs 27 lakh was deposited in the bank account of a man who made a fervent appeal for help in a video, saying he had lost his job because of the Covid-19 lockdown and his family was near starvation.Shabir Ahmad Shah, a 35-year-old from Vilgam village in Kupwara who now lives in rented accommodation in the old quarters of Srinagar, appeared in the video with his three young children and his wife. His appeal went viral on social media and people from different parts of Kashmir Valley deposited the money in his account within a day. The very next day another video circulated on social media, in which a man, who identified himself as the head of a voluntary organisation, described Shah’s appeal as fabricated and said several groups had already helped the family by providing food kits.The man criticised Shah for fooling people and asked others to never directly donate money into the bank accounts of persons making such appeals. He also said Shah owned a vehicle.The head of the voluntary organisation said people should instead give money to reputed NGOs. “The person has lied. He was helped by various organisations. People should never trust these videos,” said the man who declined to be named.This is not a new phenomenon in Kashmir. Similar appeals have generated crores of rupees for people, mostly patients suffering from life-threatening diseases.Not only Shah, but the people who posted or shared his video were criticised by many netizens, mostly those having a soft corner for NGOs or voluntarily organisations. Many people on social media described Shah’s actions as a scam and sought action against him and others who made such “emotional videos”.The matter even reached the court, when an advocate filed a complaint that prompted the chief judicial magistrate of Srinagar to order an investigation through the police station at Hawal. “In order to ascertain the truthfulness or otherwise, I deem it proper to get complaint investigated through SHO police station concerned u/s 202 CrPC,” the court’s order stated.Javeed Ahmad, who works with a prominent NGO, said people shouldn’t get emotional about such ploys to seek donations. “Rather, people should leave this job to local groups which follow proper mechanisms and then make appeals,” he said.However, some people defended Shah and his family and described his appeal as genuine. “When the NGOs saw a number of people helping him, it seems they got frustrated. Having debit of Rs 50000, staying at rented accommodation for months now, without work are good signs of being poor. Rest I believe public is best judge,” Mir Suhail posted on social media, with picture of the family that was helped by people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-sos-appeals-on-social-media-generate-crores-of-rupees-for-people/story-9QKSjs4n4gCEhMMGOHIEyI.html
18-05-2020||India||21 years later, Bengal, Odisha prep for another Super Cyclone, this time Amphan||Cyclone Amphan has now intensified into a super cyclonic storm on Monday and is likely to move across the northeast Bay of Bengal, and cross the West Bengal and Bangladesh coasts between Digha and the Hatia Island on May 20, according to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD).‘Amphan’ (pronounced UM-PN) that had turned into an extremely severe cyclonic storm gathered more strength over the Bay of Bengal while moving slowly towards the coast. It has now intensified further into a super cyclonic storm likely to make landfall on Wednesday, the IMD has indicated.The IMD has warned that the cyclone could ravage east Medinipur, south and north 24 Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Kolkata districts in West Bengal. Twenty-one years ago, in 1999, another super cyclonic storm had ravaged large parts of Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal. It had taken Odisha, a number of months to repair the extensive damage that the Super Cyclone had caused back then.The state is expected to face extensive damage in the storm that is likely to uproot communication and power poles. It said the Cyclone Amphan could also disrupt rail and road links in many places in Bengal and Odisha and inflict extensive damage to standing crops, plantations and orchards.ALSO READ | Amphan likely to turn into ‘super cyclone’, says govt; will hit Bengal coastAhead of Cyclone Amphan making landfall, Odisha has urged the Centre to temporarily suspend ‘Shramik Special’ trains passing through areas falling in the direction of the storm. The Odisha government also announced that it will shift migrant workers lodged in various quarantine centres near the coast to safer places.Tracking Cyclone Amphan’s movement in 10 points:1. Cyclone Amphan is likely to move north-northeastwards and rapidly across the northwest Bay of Bengal, and cross the West Bengal and Bangladesh coasts between Digha and the Hatia Island as a very severe super cyclonic storm.2. This has raised the possibility of heavy rains and high-velocity winds in coastal Odisha and Bengal and the state governments have initiated the process of evacuating people from vulnerable areas. 3. Cyclone Amphan is likely to have a wind speed of up to 185 km per hour on Wednesday, the Union Home Ministry has said in its latest update.4. Heavy rainfall warnings have been issued by the IMD for Gajapati, Puri, Ganjam, Jagatsinghpur, and Kendrapara. On Tuesday, the rainfall activity is likely to increase in Balasore, Bhadrak, Jajapur, Mayurbhanj, Khurja and Cuttack in Odisha.5. Fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea till May 21, Special Relief Commissioner (SRC) P K Jena has said. The IMD has issued a warning to suspend all fishing activity in Bengal and Odisha till May 20.6. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has enhanced its strength to a total of 37 teams, with the addition of 20 more, to combat the dual challenge of Cyclone Amphan and the coronavirus pandemic, the chief of the federal contingency force said on Monday. 37 teams have been deployed by NDRF in West Bengal and Odisha, out of which 20 teams are actively deployed and 17 are on standby in the two states. On Sunday, the force had earmarked 17 teams for the task.7. The NDRF is fully prepared with all the paraphernalia to face Cyclone Amphan which has turned into a super cyclonic storm by Monday and will continue to be so for some time, NDRF Director General S N Pradhan said. In Odisha, the deployment of the force is in seven districts and in West Bengal in six districts so far.8. The Odisha government is in the process of evacuating people from low-lying areas in 12 districts including 6 coastal ones due to the approaching super cyclonic storm.9. The impending cyclone has forced the Indian Railways to divert the route for its Bhubaneswar-New Delhi-Bhubaneswar AC Special trains running from Bhubaneswar between May 19 and 22. The trains will now travel via Bhubaneswar-Angul-Sambalpur City-Jharsuguda-Rourkela-Tata route, bypassing the Bhadrak-Balasore-Hijli route.10. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will also discuss the super cyclonic storm in a high-level meeting on Monday to review the situation and preparedness. With Amphan turning into a super cyclone, the Mamata Banerjee-led West Bengal government has geared up to make necessary arrangements for the cyclonic spell that is expected to make landfall on Wednesday. The Bengal government has said that special arrangements have been made by deploying specialised disaster management teams at Sagar Island and Kakdweep in South 24-Parganas district in Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/21-years-later-bengal-odisha-prep-for-another-super-cyclone-this-time-amphan/story-uOhp3eUrMA7QrGK68jMrmK.html
18-05-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh okays Priyanka Gandhi’s request for Congress to run 1,000 buses for migrants||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday accepted Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi’s request to allow the Congress to run 1,000 buses to ferry migrant workers to their homes in the state.Additional state chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi, in response to Priyanka Gandhi’s letter to Yogi Adityanath, wrote that the state government accepts the proposal. He asked the Congress leader to submit details of 1,000 buses, their drivers and conductors so that they could serve the migrant workers.The Congress said it would provide the details soon.“We welcome the state government’s decision. We have details of the buses. As the state government has sought more details about driver and conductor, we will provide them at the earliest,” said Congress legislature party leader Aaradhna Mishra. The buses will be run by the Congress and the party will bear the entire expense.Gandhi thanked CM Adityanath and assured that her party will stand with those migrant workers affected by the coronavirus and suffering due to the lockdown situation.“Thank you for allowing us to run 1,000 buses for our brothers and sisters walking home,” tweeted Priyanka Gandhi.While the state agreed, the ruling BJP hit out at the party over what it called “cheap, political drama”. “Why did they send the buses to UP border instead of making arrangements to bring migrants directly from their party-ruled states to UP. It’s cheap political drama of the Congress party,” said UP BJP spokesman Chandramohan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-okays-priyanka-gandhi-s-request-for-congress-to-run-1-000-buses-for-migrants/story-C9wF5jbhR8xGvfu0CXZPUM.html
18-05-2020||India||ICMR revises strategy for Covid-19 testing in country||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Monday updated its strategy for testing coronavirus disease Covid-19 as the number of infected people crossed 90,000-mark.The revised strategy proposes all symptomatic individuals with history of international travel in the last 14 days to be tested. It also says that all symptomatic contacts of laboratory confirmed cases, healthcare workers at the frontline of battle against Covid-19 and patients of Severe Acute Respiatory Infection or SARI to be tested.The asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of a confirmed case should be tested once between day 5 and day 10 of coming into contact, the new ICMR testing strategy says.All symptomatic patients with Influenza Like Illness (ILI) and patients who develop ILI symptoms should also be tested, it further says.The guideline makes it clear that no emergency procedure should be delayed for lack of test.The ICMR had said on Friday that the number of RT-PCR tests for detection of Covid-19 crossed the two million-mark in India.A total of 20,39,952 samples were tested in the country as on Friday 9 am, with 92,911 tests being conducted since Thursday 9 am, Dr Rajnikant Srivastava, the head of the Department of Research Management, Policy Planning and Communication at ICMR said.The testing for Covid-19 has been scaled up significantly over the last two months and the capacity has increased to around one lakh tests per day.Starting with one laboratory at the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune and 100 laboratories at the beginning of the lockdown, the RT-PCR tests are now available at 360 government and 147 private testing facilities across the country, said ICMR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-revises-strategy-for-covid-19-testing-in-country/story-libJO0mrqzrznek4giqI5M.html
18-05-2020||India||NDRF preps for rescue ops as super cyclone Amphan heads for Odisha, Bengal||As Odisha and West Bengal brace for cyclone Amphan, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) said Monday it has boosted its strength to face the twin challenge of the storm and the Covid-19 pandemic.“A total of 37 teams have been deployed by NDRF in West Bengal and Odisha, out of which 20 teams are actively deployed and 17 are on standby in the two states,” NDRF Director General S N Pradhan said in a video message.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned that Amphan will intensify into a super cyclone.Pradhan said the force is fully geared to face the situation amid the IMD’s warning that the depression in the Bay of Bengal will turn into a very severe cyclonic storm by this evening and remain so for some time and will cross the West Bengal and Bangladesh coasts on May 20.On Sunday, the NDRF had earmarked 17 teams for the task.A single NDRF team comprises 45 personnel.Pradhan said the NDRF has deployed its teams in seven districts in Odisha and six districts in Bengal.“It (cyclone ‘Amphan’) is a dual challenge as cyclone is striking in time of Covid-19,” Pradhan said.”We are coordinating with local administrations for active evacuation from possible affected areas.”The IMD has warned that the cyclone could ravage east Medinipur, south and north 24 Parganas, Howrah, Hoogly, Kolkata districts in West Bengal.Kutcha houses are expected to face extensive damage in the storm that is likely to uproot communication and power poles.It said the cyclone could also disrupt rail and road links in many places and inflict extensive damage to standing crops, plantations and orchards.It suggested the evacuation of people from low lying areas and advised against movement in motor boats and small ships.In Odisha’s Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Bhadrak, Balasore, Jajpur and Mayurbhanj) the cyclone is expected to completely destroy thatched houses and cause extensive damage to kutcha houses.The cyclone could also damage tarred and untarred roads and disrupt railways, overhead power lines and signalling systems.Odisha is also expected to face widespread damage to standing crops, plantations and orchards.The IMD also repeated its warning to suspend all fishing activity in Bengal and Odisha till May 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ndrf-preps-for-rescue-ops-as-super-cyclone-amphan-heads-for-odisha-bengal/story-6obX8d3l7dK7EATe1h9cbI.html
18-05-2020||India||Former bureaucrats raise concerns over Central Vista revamp project in letter to PM||Sixty retired bureaucrats have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, raising concerns over the Central Vista redevelopment project, which is likely to cost around Rs 20,000 crore, calling it an “irresponsible” move at a time when enormous funds are required strengthen the public health system. In the letter, also marked to Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri, the former bureaucrats said there was no parliamentary debate or discussion that preceded the decisions taken with regard to the project. Moreover, the redevelopment plans were not substantiated by any public consultation or expert review, it said. The selection of the firm and the processes employed to do so leave a lot of questions unanswered, the letter added. “In the post Covid-19 scenario, when enormous funds are required for strengthening the public health system, to provide sustenance to people and to rebuild the economy, taking up a proposal to redesign the entire Central Vista at a cost of at least Rs 20,000 crores, a figure likely to escalate significantly, seems particularly irresponsible. “It seems like Nero fiddling while Rome burns,” it said.Signatories to the letter include retired IAS, IPS and IFS officers. Former DDA vice-chairman V S Ailawadi and former Prasar Bharti CEO Jawahar Sircar are also among them. The Central Vista redevelopment project envisages constructing a new Parliament building, a common Central Secretariat and revamping of the nearly 3.5-km-long stretch from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to the India Gate.  The letter said construction and redesign on the scale planned in the redevelopment project would significantly affect the heritage nature of this precinct and destroy it “irrevocably”.The former civil servants also pointed that the redevelopment planned will, moreover, cause severe environmental damage.“This precinct is at the core of the congested capital of Delhi, and acts as the lungs of the city, with its dense mature tree canopies serving as a repository of bio diversity and the vast lawns of the Vista as a watershed for the city between the Ridge and the Yamuna,” it said. Constructing a large number of multi-storeyed office buildings, with basements, in this open area will create “congestion and irreversibly change and damage the environment”. “Delhi already suffers from enormous environmental pollution. To plan something which will increase this pollution many, many times, not merely during the construction phase but also subsequently, is clearly a thoughtless and irresponsible act,” the letter further said.The former bureaucrats also pointed out that the Central Vista serves at present as a recreational space for the whole city as families throng the area on summer nights to sit around in the open air and enjoy the occasional ice-cream – “innocent and inexpensive pleasures” which they will be deprived of once the vista’s character undergoes a change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-bureaucrats-raise-concerns-over-central-vista-revamp-project-in-letter-to-pm/story-UNV4rU6pdSbJZgtAx1eGWO.html
18-05-2020||India||On NREGA outlay, Rahul Gandhi tweets thank you to PM Modi. Then takes a dig||Former congress president Rahul Gandhi on Monday thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for approving a 66% jump in the allocated budget for the flagship rural job guarantee scheme initiated during the Congress rule. However, he ended his congratulatory note by taking a dig at the PM for one of his statements regarding the scheme in parliament. “The Prime Minister has approved an additional budget of Rs 40,000 crore for the MNREGA scheme created during the UPA era. We express our gratitude to him for understanding the vision of the scheme and for promoting it,” tweeted the Congress leader. Gandhi ended his tweet message with “#ModiUturnOnMNREGA”. He also tagged a short video clip featuring the PM.  प्रधानमंत्री ने UPA काल में सृजित MNREGA स्कीम के लिए 40,000 करोड़ का अतिरिक्त बजट देने की मंज़ूरी दी है। MNREGA की दूरदर्शिता को समझने और उसे बढ़ावा देने के लिए हम उनके प्रति आभार प्रकट करते हैं।#ModiUturnOnMNREGA pic.twitter.com/XMOmhXhVeDIn it, the PM can be heard saying, “MNREGA aapki vifaltaon ka jeeta jagta smarak hai (MNREGA is a testimony to your failures).” On Sunday, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, while laying out the final tranche of the Rs 20 lakh crore economic package, said the government will now allocate an additional Rs 40,000 crore to MGNREGA to provide employment boost. This amount is in addition to a little over Rs 61,000 crore budgeted for 2020-21.There has also been a revision of wages under the scheme from Rs 182 per day to Rs 202, keeping in mind the exodus of migrant labourers to villages. The FM’s announcement was part of a slew of measures announced by the government for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), agriculture, migrant workers, defence, businesses, and other segments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-nrega-outlay-rahul-gandhi-tweets-thank-you-to-pm-modi-then-takes-a-dig/story-8iEdd1i7EEbyDkPhkwyurI.html
18-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan intensifies into super cyclone, says IMD||Extremely severe cyclonic storm Amphan over the west and central parts of Bay of Bengal has intensified into a super cyclone with wind speed above 200 kmph (kilometres per hour) on Monday afternoon, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). Heavy rainfall is expected to hit coastal Odisha by Monday evening and then hit West Bengal’s coast the following day.On Wednesday, the super cyclone is expected to marginally lose its strength and cross over to West Bengal and Bangladesh coasts as an extremely severe cyclonic storm with a wind speed of 180-190 kmph. The extremely severe cyclone is expected to cross in between Digha in West Bengal and Hatiya islands in Bangladesh, IMD authorities said on Monday.Earlier on Monday morning, IMD was expecting it to cross the Indian coasts as a very severe cyclonic storm.Scientists at IMD said this is the first time that super cyclones have been recorded in two consecutive years — Kyarr (2019) and now Amphan -- and this could be linked to higher sea surface temperatures in both the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal.This is the first super cyclonic storm in the Bay of Bengal after the 1999 super cyclone, which impacted coastal Odisha and killed over 9,000 people. There was a super cyclone, called Kyarr, in the Arabian Sea last October and was concentrated only in the ocean. However, Kyarr did not claim any human life. Odisha also faced nature’s wrath last May in the form of cyclone Fani. “All conditions are currently favourable for the development of a super cyclone. The sea surface temperature is in the range of 30 to 31 degrees Celsius, as compared to an expected temperature of 28 degrees Celsius over the region. There is vertical wind shear (change in wind speed with altitude) and sufficient moisture in the air,” said Sunita Devi, a scientist, who is in-charge of cyclones at IMD.Widespread damage is expected in coastal West Bengal and Odisha, according to IMD’s latest bulletin. IMD has warned that would be extensive damage to kutcha and even old or damaged pucca constructions, uprooting of communications and power transmission poles, disruption of rail and road links, crops and plantations; large boats, ships can get torn from moorings, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amphan-now-a-super-cyclone-imd/story-9AeCkY65vfznlO5SYeGcSN.html
18-05-2020||India||5 doctors test positive for Covid-19 in Kashmir||The Covid-19 tally in Jammu and Kashmir rose to 1,188 on Monday after five doctors in three hospitals in Srinagar tested positive for the disease, officials said.A 75-year-old man also died of Covid-19 at Chest Diseases (CD) hospital in Srinagar on Monday taking the death toll to 14.Officials said that the five doctors were tested a day after a 29-year-old woman, who was earlier treated at Shri Maharaja Hari Singh(SMHS) hospital by ENT specialists and then tested positive for Covid-19, died at the CD hospital.“5 doctors positive - 4 of them were treating a single positive patient. No one is immune to the infection. Please take precautions,” Dr Naveed Shah, head of chest medicine at CD hospital, said in a tweet.Dr Salim Khan, nodal officer Covid-19 at Government Medical College, Srinagar, said that three of the doctors are from the ENT department of SMHS, one from Government Dental College and one from SKIMS, Bemina.“The Covid positive deceased lady from Habba Kadal was treated by the doctor from the Dental College and also at ENT, SMHS hospital, Srinagar,” Khan said.The patient was operated at SMHS by ENT surgeons for Ludwig’s Angina (submandibular abscess) and mediastinitis and had suffered septic shock.So far 21 health care workers including 13 doctors have been infected with Covid-19 in Jammu and Kashmir since the first case was reported on March 9.The infections of frontline workers have triggered concern among the population.“Doctors and paramedics are our frontline workers in the fight against Covid-19. If they continue to be infected with coronavirus, it will be only a recipe for a big disaster. Today 5 doctors from 3 different health institutions in Kashmir are reported to have tested positive for Covid19. This is shocking, to say the least. The last thing we can afford today is to shut down our hospitals during the pandemic that’s only spreading its tentacle,’ said Faheem Aslam, a netizen. Dr Khan said that the 75-year-old person who died on Monday was from Hiller Kokernag in south Kashmir’s Anantnag and was earlier admitted to SMHS hospital.“He tested positive and was shifted to CD hospital where his two latest reports also came positive for Covid-19. The patient died today morning at CD hospital,” he said.On Sunday, 62 people had tested positive for Covid-19 including 14 police personnel and a pregnant woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-doctors-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-kashmir/story-HzzJ2lR8TNIPVUT3U5xnLM.html
18-05-2020||India||As lockdown 4.0 begins, a look at list of states with over 5,000 Covid-19 cases||Coronavirus cases in India have surpassed China’s tally and now near a grim milestone. On Monday, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Affairs updated the total number of cases in the country to 96,169. The number of fatalities caused by coronavirus across the country stands at 3,029 while 36,823 patients have been cured or discharged from the hospitals. Maharashtra continues to see no respite in its Covid-19 cases, Delhi, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu also struggle to contain the virus spread. Here’s taking a look at states where coronavirus cases are on a rapid rise and have crossed the 5,000-mark.MaharashtraThe state has reported a whopping 33,053 Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra has recorded 1,198 deaths so far while 7,688patients have recovered. Mumbai, Thane and Pune are some of the worst-hit cities in the state. Mumbai alone has witnessed over 20,000 coronavirus cases.Also read: India sees biggest one-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 5,242 new patientsGujaratSecond in terms of number of Covid-19 cases in the country. The tally in the state, as per the Ministry of Health, stands at 11379. 659 people have died due to the coronavirus disease in Gujarat, 4499 people have recovered so far. Ahmedabad is the worst-hit city in the state. Tamil NaduThe southern state has reported 11224 coronavirus cases so far, third-highest in the country. Tamil Nadu has seen 4172 people recover from the deadly contagion while 78 patients have succumbed to death. DelhiIn the national capital, the number of coronavirus cases have breached the 10,000-mark. 10054 people have tested positive for coronavirus in Delhi. 160 people have died from the infection while 4485 have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.RajasthanThe state has reported 5202 coronavirus cases so far. The number of fatalities in the state has climbed to 131 while 2992 patients have recovered from the deadly contagion. Jaipur is among the worst-hit areas in the state. States that near 5,000-mark Covid-19 cases are rising rapidly in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. Both states have reported more than 3,000 coronavirus cases till date and now near the 5,000-markMadhya Pradesh has reported 4977 positive cases of coronavirus. 248 people have died from Covid-19 here while 2403 have recovered. Indore, Ujjain and Bhopal are top coronavirus-hit cities here. The number of Covid-19 positive cases reached 4259 in Uttar Pradesh on Monday. While 2441 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 104 have died from the infection here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-19-lockdown-4-0-begins-a-look-at-list-of-states-with-over-5-000-covid-19-cases/story-gZyZr7Arjif6dvpD3h9jsK.html
18-05-2020||India||Swiggy to cut 1,100 jobs, shut cloud kitchen ops: Full text of company’s statement||Food delivery startup Swiggy said on Monday it is cutting 1,100 jobs, or nearly 14% of its staff, and scaling down some businesses to reduce costs after the coronavirus pandemic induced hit demand for online food orders.Swiggy co-founder and chief executive Sriharsha Majety said in an internal email, which the Bengaluru-headquartered startup published on its blog, it core food business had been “severely impacted”.Here is the mail:Dear Team,Thanks for attending the town hall today, and I hope you’re staying safe and well. As I’d mentioned during the session, today is one of the saddest days for Swiggy as we have to go through an unfortunate downsizing exercise. With a heavy heart, I have tried to share the reasons and details of the process below, because you deserve to know.As you all know, we started chalking out an accelerated path to profitability for the food delivery business last December. We also started making great progress on our unit economics over the following months before Covid hit us. We had mentioned that we will be focusing on being efficient everywhere – including employee costs – and that we’d come back when we have greater clarity. As we came closer to chalking out the final details of that exercise, Covid hit us with another huge blow of uncertainty, forcing us to look even harder at our cost base and preparedness for the road ahead. While Covid might have long-term tailwinds for the delivery business and digital commerce when things settle eventually, nobody knows how long the uncertainty will last. We therefore need to be prepared to see through this winter, to emerge stronger on the other side. While all our hard work and some good luck has meant that we have had a stable setup all these years, we have to make some very hard decisions today.I want to start by first sharing the management outlook and key business decisions we have made given the landscape. 1. The core food delivery business has been severely impacted and will stay impacted over the short term, but is expected to start growing again after that. We need to hence prepare to come out stronger on the other side by continuing to build on capabilities that will help us make the most of the opportunity when things are better again. While we are very fortunate to have raised capital just before Covid hit and have sufficient runway today, it is incredibly important to prepare for worse scenarios in the macro environment and make sure we are protected. 2. We also need to build a much leaner org and reduce costs to be able to withstand any further risks from the uncertainty. We will have to reduce our expenses such that we can achieve profitability with a smaller order volume than hitherto planned. This will be done keeping in mind already identified efficiencies, along with additional reductions in teams and initiatives that will have lower activity because of Covid. 3. We are choosing to scale down or shut down adjacent businesses that are either going to be highly volatile or will not be highly relevant for the next 18 months. The biggest impact here is on the cloud kitchens business, with many unknowns about volumes through the year. Since the onset of Covid, we have already begun the process of scaling down our kitchen facilities temporarily or permanently, depending on their outlook and profitability profile. We are already operating at significantly lower levels on our staffing and physical infra than our earlier footprint, and will continue to optimize before we get more clarity on order volumes for food delivery.4. While this crisis has impacted our core business negatively, there is no doubt that we are now at an inflection point for the penetration of digital commerce and home delivery in India. This offers us opportunities to continue investing our efforts in grocery and other service offerings that we think will continue to do well. We are going to invest in these high-confidence efforts to focus not on surviving alone, but on growing along the way by adapting very quickly. To enable this, we have already re-aligned some team members from other businesses into these initiatives.5. Identify and significantly reduce every single indirect cost like hubs, office infrastructure, etc. While we will come back to share more information on this, it is one of the areas where we feel the cut is most prudent given it doesn’t affect customer or employee experience. We’ve all done some of the greatest work of our time at Swiggy over the last few weeks working remotely, and that’s reason enough to believe this can be done. In line with the above business decisions, we unfortunately have to part ways with 1100 of our employees spanning across grades and functions in the cities and head office over the next few days. This is easily the hardest and longest deliberated decision the management team and I have been faced with over recent times. We have been fortunate to have some of the brightest missionary talent in the country join us over the last few years, and I would like to state unequivocally that this is not at all a reflection of anyone’s performance.Ever since the day it became clear that we will need to downsize, Girish and I were very clear about a few things. We have always believed in treating people with care and respect at Swiggy, and this process will be 10x more important from that perspective. Without the key contributions of every Swiggster, we wouldn’t have gotten to where we are today, and it’s really the least we can do in this unfortunate situation.While we waited to see if we can have these conversations F2F, it’s increasingly looking like a long time away before we get back to our offices. We are, however, definitely going to do this 1-1 and make sure we do this in the most respectful way possible.Over the next few days, the HR team along with the line manager will have a 1-1 conversation with impacted employees providing further details regarding the next steps and clarifying any questions you may have. All other employees will receive appropriate communication from your line managers regarding the continuity of your role with Swiggy.We are fully committed to providing the best financial, emotional and career-related support that we can to make this journey less painful, and to ease the burden on you and your families. We have done our best to be thoughtful and express our gratitude & support through a care package, with details below.DETAILS OF THE CARE PACKAGEFinancial SupportWhile our primary objective is to ensure that all employees who are leaving us are able to meet their financial commitments and expenses till they find another role, we also want to display our gratitude to team members who have worked with us for longer and have made sustained contributions over the years believing in the mission. The details are below:• All impacted employees will receive at least 3 months of salary irrespective of their notice period or tenure.• For every year they have spent with us, we will be offering an extra month of ex-gratia in addition to their notice period pay, working out to between 3-8 months of salary depending on the tenure.E.g. If someone’s notice period is 3 months and they’ve spent 5 years with us, they will get 8 months of salary.• EquityMany team members have joined Swiggy believing in the growth potential of the company and even preferred ESOP to cash at the time of joining. While our standard ESOP policy has a 1-year cliff and annual vesting, we will now be extending ESOP vesting to the nearest quarter (including the months of notice period) and waive off the 1-year cliff for those who have not completed 1 year.Healthcare & Wellness BenefitsDuring the current health crisis, we want to ensure we provide all possible support for the medical care of impacted employees and their families. To facilitate this, we are providing:• Medical Insurance cover for them and nominated family members till 31st December 2020. Additionally, we will also be providing insurance cover for their parents.• Accident and Term insurance till 31st December 2020. • A Wellness Assistance Programme to ensure the physical, emotional/mental and financial well-being of impacted employees and their families, providing unlimited tele/video consultation access to experienced doctors, counsellors and financial advisors till 31st December 2020.Career Transition SupportWe want to ensure a smooth career transition for the impacted employees, and want to help them find new opportunities. This is something the outplacement cell has been working really hard on and I hope we can get a large percentage of impacted employees placed through this effort. I will also be sharing an update on our outplacement effort at a later time.• We will have a dedicated and fully-trained talent acquisition team assisting impacted employees round the clock in identifying suitable opportunities and providing necessary career support for the next 3 months. • We will also offer free outplacement support from RiseSmart for mid-senior management employees, giving full access to their career coaching services, content and personalized job search.Connectivity SupportGiven that connectivity is going to be paramount during this time from a career transition standpoint, impacted employees will be enabled to retain their allocated work laptops and be supported on mobile phone communication allowance for the next 3 months.Learning SupportTo ensure that the journey of upskilling oneself continues for the impacted employees, we will be providing free LinkedIn Learning access for the next 3 months, for both technical and professional skill development. We have also curated and assigned content to them around resume building, interviewing skills, emotional intelligence, etc. that will help them with their career transition during this time.Relocation SupportWe will support impacted employees who have relocated to join Swiggy within the last 1 year by reimbursing the expenses in case they wish to move back.A dedicated set of HR team members will assist the impacted employees with their queries pertaining to the Care Package, reimbursement and settlements, insurance, and any other relevant areas.To all impacted teammates, I cannot even imagine how stressful this can be and want to let you know we are by your side and are going to do everything we can to help with the situation. We have all built the company together brick by brick and have been very lucky to have you join us on this journey. I am very sorry for having to make this decision, but want to wish you only the very best with everything and want to thank you deeply for all your contributions to Swiggy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swiggy-to-cut-1-100-jobs-shut-cloud-kitchen-ops-full-text-of-company-s-statement/story-imcL94vu42wYue7kruiaLI.html
18-05-2020||India||In Covid epicentre Ganjam, fear and worries over return of migrants||For thousands of men from Ganjam district, such as Sadashiva Dakua, desperate to make a living, Surat in Gujarat has been nothing short of El Dorado.Despite its overflowing sewers and cramped rooms, Surat has been a huge draw for many young men of Odisha, especially Ganjam district, where dreams of a well-paid job die as fast as they begin.Now quarantined with 70 others at a school in Ganjam’s Polasara block, after a train journey back to his home 10 days ago, the 36-year-old is hoping he doesn’t test positive. Ganjam has 307 Covid-19 cases, accounting for more than a third of Odisha’s total of 876 cases, and the administration’s focus is on migrant workers such as Dakua, whose influx has pushed up Covid-19 cases in Odisha. Of the 876 cases, migrant workers accounted for almost 750 cases.“Till May 2, when the first case was detected in Ganjam, we managed to keep things under control. But as more and more migrant workers arrived from Surat, the positive cases zoomed,” said Ganjam’s chief district medical officer (CDMO) Umashankar Mishra.Once hailed in Ganjam for the money that they remitted back home, the tag of ‘Surat returnee’ has become a cross too heavy to bear for the migrants. His words are echoed by several people. “Why did they have to come at all? They will now ruin us,” said Meghnad Pradhan of Polasara, where the first death due to Covid-19 was recorded last week.CURSED BY LOCALS, BUT LEFT WITH NO CHOICESThough cursed by the people of Ganjam for bringing them “misery”, migrant workers such as Dakua had no option but to leave Surat. Having studied up to Class 10, and with few financial resources, Dakua migrated to Gujarat’s textile hub 20 years ago. In between, he married and now has a 10-member family in Jilundi village of Bhanjanagar block. Even before the lockdown, he never had a steady job as he moved from one company to another with little job security.“Tell me, what should I have done instead of fleeing? I not only lost my job in the textile factory, I had to share the 10x10-foot room at Surat with five others as they had lost their jobs. In normal times, only half of us would be in the room at any given point of time as our work hours alternated. It was too difficult and scary to live in the cramped room with no money. Several migrant workers in Surat were testing positive and I was scared whether I would be alive,” said Dakua.Several miles away, in a quarantine centre of Khallikote block, Kalu Charan Panigrahi can’t forget how he escaped, though he was better off with regular payments and an ESI subscription that allowed him to get treated at hospital without spending anything from his own pocket.“I had food for just a fortnight, but was unsure about the lockdown ending. I was scared of queuing up for food as I thought I may end up infecting my 2.5-month-old daughter and my wife,” said Panigrahi, who bought two train tickets for Rs 750 each with much difficulty.Babuli Behera and two of his friends from Polasara block were less fortunate. They used their decrepit bicycles to leave Surat. Behera, 40, has been a regular at Surat’s textile mills for the past 15 years. On April 16, he took his Hercules bicycle, charged his feature phone and switched it off as he and his friends rode their bicycles from Surat, through Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh, to Odisha over 10 days. He survived on biscuits and odd handouts on the way, and feels happy that he is out of the “Corona narak (hell)”.“I had no job and no money left. I would have died of the disease had I stayed a little longer,” said Behera.Such stories get repeated across the quarantine centres of Ganjam, home to 55,000 migrant workers who have returned from Gujarat, Maharashtra and other states.MIGRANTS SWELLEDHaving travelled from the Covid-19 hot spots, these workers have swelled the Covid-19 cases of Ganjam in 16 days. From the first case on May 2, when an 18-year-old tested positive, the numbers have gone up to 307 on May 18, clocking around 20 cases a day on an average.Ganjam’s district collector Vijay Amrita Kulange said despite the increase in cases, there is little to be worry about as the infections are all from quarantine centres. “There is no reason to panic as no community transmission has happened so far,” he said.But Ganjam may have seen only the tip of the iceberg as only 5,000 samples from the 55,000 migrant workers have been tested so far. Till Sunday evening, 1,800 samples were pending with labs. In several quarantine centres, only a handful who showed symptoms of Covid-19 have been tested. In the quarantine centre at Mathura village of Khallikote block, none of the 37 who arrived from Surat have been tested.“We are ramping up testing facilities. We are testing 500 samples now and would soon test 1,000 a day. Then we can test almost everyone,” said Ganjam CDMO’s Mishra.But with another 50,000 migrants expected to arrive at the quarantine centres, there is no certainty when a significant number of people at the centres can be tested.At the centres, arrangements are hardly as perfect as the administration makes them out to be in social media posts. More than 150 people left a centre in Beguniapada block and people milled around in some other centres, handing over tobacco and other items, and there are also complaints of poor hygiene and food quality.In Dhunkapada quarantine centre, four buckets have been given for 10 inmates while the single bottle of hand-wash for 73 people is almost exhausted. “The toilets are stinking. With the gates shut, it feels as if we are serving a sentence in jail,” said Nakula Patra.“We have not been tested for Covid-19 so far. Officials toss the medicines to us from a distance,” said another inmate who didn’t want to be named. Adding to the distrust is villagers guarding the local pond over suspicion that some workers may scale the wall of the quarantine centre and bathe there.Outside, people discuss openly how the migrants are ‘polluting’ the villages resentful of administration’s decision of quarantining the migrant workers right inside village schools and colleges.NO SOCIAL DISTANCINGEven as Covid-19 cases increase in Ganjam, there seems to be little social distancing. In Madhupali village, home to Ganjam’s first Covid-19 victim, a 40-year-old man who returned from Surat, his kin milled together while conducting his last rites.Prafulla Behera died in a quarantine centre 10 days ago, just a few days after he arrived there. He left behind a wife and four daughters, the youngest one only give months old. None of the people who attended an event held 10 days after his death wore a mask or maintained social distancing.In other villages of Ganjam, the concept of social distancing isn’t being observed. Very few wear masks or seem to appreciate the importance of such protection while going on with their daily lives.“The real test will be ensuring social distancing in daily lives. In Odisha’s villages, people believe in social mixing and not distancing. Once a Covid-19 positive case in a quarantine centre infects someone outside, community transmission will only be a matter of time,” said Binod Patra, head of the community medicine department of AIIMS Bhubaneswar.” “People are now not worried as Odisha has not seen higher death tolls like Gujarat and Maharashtra. Once that happens, it may be catastrophic.”POST-COVID WORRYWhile the increasing infections are worrying the government, reverse migration is keeping state officials equally worried. Ganjam is chief minister Naveen Patnaik’s home district and any potential social unrest here due to reverse migration may be politically uncomfortable for him. A significant rise in the number of migrant workers is expected to strain resources at a time when there is little scope of raising revenue. A rapid assessment of people returning to Odisha, done by the NGO Gram Vikas and Kerala’s Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development this month, found the migrant workers who have returned will need a monthly income of Rs 5,001 to Rs 10,000 at their native places to go on with their lives.Biswajit Bhoi, who teaches economics at the Central University of Koraput, said this is easier said than done. “The unemployment rate in 2017-18 stood at 7.1% in Odisha, against the all India average of 6.1%. To give more money into the hands of these migrant workers, the government needs to ramp up MGNREGA workers. But how will the government do NREGA work in the next four months of the monsoon?” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-covid-epicentre-ganjam-fear-and-worries-over-return-of-migrants/story-njDVGCbmjUvLH8UVuHH82O.html
18-05-2020||India||7, including 4 kids, killed in fire at a shop in Madhya Pradesh’s Gwalior||Seven members of a family, including three children, were killed and at least three others sustained injuries in a fire that broke out in a shop in a residential complex in Madhya Pradesh’s Gwalior on Monday morning, police said.A police officer said the fire started at about 10am from the paint shop situated on the ground floor of the complex at Roshni Ghar road in Inderganj market. It took more than two hours for 10 fire tenders to extinguish the blaze, the officer added.“As per a family member, the fire was caused by a short circuit in the electric metre in the morning. Paint and thinner in the shop being highly inflammable soon caught fire and it spread to engulf the three-storey building trapping the family members residing on the first and second floors,” Satyendra Singh Tomar, additional superintendent of police, said.The dead have been identified as Aaradhya, the four-year-old daughter of Sumit Goyal; Aryan, the 10-year-old son of Saket Goyal, and Subhi Goyal, the 13-year-old daughter of Shyam Goyal.Shyam Goyal’s 37-year-old wife Arti Goyal, Shakuntala, 60, wife of Jaikishan Goyal, 33-year-old Priyanka Goyal, wife of Saket Goyal, and Madhu Goyal, 55, wife of Hariom Goyal were also among the dead.Saket Goyal, 36, his father Hariom Goyal, 62, and Gauravi Goyal, the seven-year-old daughter of Shyam Goyal, have been injured and taken to a hospital.“Except the girl, the condition of the other injured is stated to be critical,” Kaushlendra Vikram Singh, Gwalior’s district collector, said. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan condoled the deaths of the seven members of the family.Former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia termed the accident as unfortunate.“I am deeply pained to know about the fire incident that took place in Inderganj and loss of life in it. I pray to God to grant peace to the departed souls and strength to the family in this hour of grief,” the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-including-4-kids-killed-in-fire-at-a-shop-in-madhya-pradesh-s-gwalior/story-8ERZCSbtO5kvDzunb7BM2L.html
18-05-2020||India||Amid lockdown, rally organised in Arunachal to protest death of civilian in Army shooting||At least 50 residents in Arunachal Pradesh’s remote Longding town took out a peace rally on Monday amid the lockdown restrictions, which have been imposed since end-March to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, in protest against the alleged killing of a Wancho tribesman by an Indian Army patrolling party two days ago.Wancho Council, an apex body of Wancho, a Naga sub-tribe, took out the peace march that ended at the Longding district deputy commissioner’s (DC) office, where the council members submitted a memorandum demanding justice for the slain and compensation for his next of kin.“No untoward incident was reported during the rally. All lockdown norms were followed. The participants submitted a memorandum, which will be forwarded to the competent authority for necessary action,” said Chesta Yadav, DC, Longding.The district administration made an exception to hold the peace rally, as the Union Ministry of Home Affairs’ (MHA) prevailing lockdown restrictions prohibit any public gatherings and congregations except for weddings and funerals.“There was a public demand to hold the peace rally in protests against the firing incidents at Pumao village on Saturday. The district administration allowed the rally to be held by Wancho Council in a peaceful manner,” said an order issued by Longing DC on Sunday. The order asked all rally participants to maintain social distancing, wear masks and only 50 people were allowed to take part in the march. “This rally is a one-time exception. No other gathering will be allowed after the rally is over. The violation of Covid-19 guidelines will attract legal action,” it added.On Saturday, Lamdaan Lukham (60) was killed when personnel from the 19th Sikh Regiment of the Indian Army fired at villagers in Pumao during a combing operation against the National Socialist Council of Nagaland-Isak-Muivah (NSCN I-M) cadres. Several others, including villagers and the army personnel, reportedly sustained injuries in the incident.On Saturday night, the army issued a statement, which stated that a search operation was launched at Pumao based on intelligence inputs about the presence of NSCN (I-M) cadres in the village.“Villagers started protesting against security forces and resorted to stone-pelting. Troops identified suspicious movement and started moving towards a house, which drew two to three bursts of fire on the patrolling party,” the statement said.“Civilians were told to disperse and to safeguard their lives and property. Eight single shots were fired as controlled retaliation. In this melee, insurgents managed to escape. However, in this crossfire, it is believed few villagers have got hurt and one died,” it added.However, local residents, student bodies and human rights organisations in Arunachal have alleged that the army personnel deliberately opened fire in a bid to retaliate to settle a dispute that occurred a day earlier, when security forces thrashed a villager in Pumao.Though there was a bid to settle the dispute, trouble broke out when the meeting ended inconclusively, and the army team left the deliberations midway amid stone-pelting by irate villagers. But before leaving the spot, the army personnel purportedly opened fire at the protesters, where one Wancho tribesman was killed.“The heinous crime purported by the Indian Army has severely contradicted the very underlying purpose for which they have been deployed for in the region which is to maintain law and order and to guard against external aggression,” said a release, issued by the North East Students Organisation (NESO), on Sunday.The state government has ordered a judicial inquiry into the incident and a separate police probe is also being conducted. The North East Human Rights Organisation (NEHRO) has filed two complaints with the National Human Rights Commission against the Indian Army for alleged human rights violations.Longding is one of the three districts in Arunachal, along with Tirap and Changlang, where rebels groups from Nagaland and Assam, such as the NSCN (I-M) and the United Liberation Front of Assam-Independent (ULFA-I), are still active.The three districts are the only ones in the north-east largest state, where the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, (AFSPA), which gives sweeping powers to the armed forces, is operational.“Usually the army informs the local police before conducting any operation. But since Longding is under the AFSPA, we’re not informed,” Arunachal Police director-general of police (DGP) RP Upadhyaya said on Sunday.In a press release issued on Monday, NSCN (I-M) condemned Saturday’s firing incident and blamed the Indian Army for targeting innocent Naga villagers in Arunachal as a ruse to flushing out holed up insurgents.The rebel outfit termed the army’s version of the incident as a “hilarious statement to absolve itself from the criminal assault of innocent villagers”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-lockdown-rally-organised-in-arunachal-to-protest-death-of-civilian-in-army-shooting/story-5I1z8yiPlfHEJ5qfBV2QFJ.html
18-05-2020||India||Fire breaks out at residential building in Mumbai’s Mazgaon, rescue ops underway||A fire broke out in two flats of a residential building named Mumbai’s Mazgaon on Monday. The fire was reported in Shirin Manzil. Four fire tenders and four jumbo tankers are at the spot for firefighting operations. No injuries have been reported so far.The fire is said to be confined in two flats on the sixth floor, which has been engulfed in heavy smoke.The incident took place around 12.22 pm on the sixth floor of the seven storey structure and the fire brigade reached the spot around 12.34 pm. Officials said two people have been rescued and brought to a safe zone. Prabhat Rahangdale, chief fire officer of the Mumbai Fire Brigade said, “Two people were rescued from fifth floor and were brought to a safe zone using the staircase while seven other residents are stranded at a safe location on the seventh floor. Efforts are being made to get them to safety.” More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-at-residential-building-in-mumbai-s-mazgaon-area-rescue-ops-underway/story-rdBSiHGt3ofXp5JAs5zGdO.html
18-05-2020||India||‘One of the trucks came from Punjab’: UP’s Adityanath on Auraiya tragedy||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday attacked the Congress over the issue of migrant labourers.“The politics by Congress in these times of the coronavirus crisis must be flayed,” said a tweet from the chief minister’s official Twitter handle (@CMOfficeUP).Without mentioning Congress governments, he blamed them for the Auraiya tragedy, saying that one of the trucks responsible for the death of the migrants came from Punjab and the other truck was from Rajasthan. इस वैश्विक महामारी के समय में कांग्रेस पार्टी द्वारा की जा रही नकारात्मक एवं ओछी राजनीति की निन्दा होनी चाहिए।औरैया में प्रवासी श्रमिकों की मौत के लिये जिम्मेदार एक ट्रक पंजाब से तथा दूसरा राजस्थान से आया था: मुख्यमंत्री श्री @myogiadityanath जीAnother tweet said that in case any organisation or party wished to help the migrants and if it sends of workers and resources available to transport them, they will get permission and will be welcomed.“Whenever the Punjab or Rajasthan government gave a list of migrants from UP, the state government made arrangements for their return home,” the chief minister added.This comes a day after a minister in Rajasthan claimed on Sunday that the state government had kept 500 private buses ready to ferry migrant workers to Uttar Pradesh but they were not allowed to enter by the Yogi Adityanath government.Vishvendra Singh, Minister for Tourism and Devasthan, said the buses were stopped at Bahej village in Bharatpur’s Deeg area in Rajasthan close to the border between the two states.After making the buses wait for almost the entire day, they were asked to return to Rajasthan, said SinghBahej village falls under the minister’s assembly constituency.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi, in a video appeal, had urged the Adityanath government to allow the buses with migrant labourers stranded on the state’s borders to enter.On Saturday, Priyanka Gandhi had written to the Chief Minister to give permission to ply 1,000 buses for the migrants after the accident in Auraiya in which 26 people lost their lives.Priyanka Gandhi, who is also in charge of party affairs in eastern Uttar Pradesh, said that the Congress will bear the cost of these chartered buses at a time when the migrants are finding it tough to return homes safely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-congress-attack-yogi-adityanath-says-politics-over-migrants-issue-must-be-flayed/story-ctjeCquAoKuTVghOfqjeDL.html
18-05-2020||India||Lockdown 4.0: No pillion riding in UP on two-wheelers, offenders’ licenses can be seized||The Uttar Pradesh government has said that pillion riding will not be allowed on two-wheelers till the time the Covid-19 lockdown is in place, Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan reported.The Centre had released guidelines for the fourth phase of the lockdown which began today, in which it had said that pillion riding will be allowed on two-wheelers. The guidelines by the Union Home Ministry said that four-wheelers vehicles will have maximum of two passengers besides the driver.But the Centre had allowed states and union territories to decide on further exemptions based on the spread of Covid-19 in thir respective areas. Accordingly, the Uttar Pradesh government issued this order.Giving details about the latest order, Principal Secretary (health) Amit Mohan Prasad said that the offenders will be fined Rs 250 the first time. The penalty will increase to Rs 500 for second offence and Rs 1,000 for the third, according to Hindustan.If a person is found not obeying the direction even after being fined thrice, his/her license will be confiscated, Hindustan reported.However, there are certain relaxations. Those women who can’t drive and have to go to office, can ask a family member to drop them to the office. But not without the permission from the district magistrate. The pillion rider will have to wear helmet, mask and gloves.The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has given powers to states and union territories to decide green, orange and red zones and allow activities in these areas except in containment zones.In the previous guideline issued on May 1, the MHA had said that in the green zones, all activities are permitted except the limited number of activities, which are prohibited throughout the country like shops in shopping malls, gyms, pools, entertainment parks, movie halls, etc.The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) has issued the order to continue coronavirus-induced lockdown measures till May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-pillion-riding-in-up-on-two-wheelers-offenders-licenses-can-be-seized/story-2ckM9o84PiSKOe8WENbMLM.html
18-05-2020||India||HT Salutes: Goa-based volunteer calls for need to check mental health issues in migrant labourers||Why would a migrant labourer who is being given his daily meals still want to risk his and his family’s life by walking hundreds of kilometres in the scorching sun? Dhurv Goswami, a business strategy consultant based in Goa, wanted to find out. Volunteering with the Goa Covid-19 Outreach, a network of volunteers that provides food relief to around 4,000 stranded migrant labourers in the state, Goswami got talking to some and realised that distributing ration was not of enough help. Many needed psychological counselling after the traumatic events of the past few weeks, he realised.Around the world, mental health experts are beginning to see the effects of what they are referring to as quarantine fatigue. According to them, people with existing mental health conditions, like anxiety and depression, are prone to face an even deeper trauma on account of the lockdown and its socio-economic implications.Also read: Visually impaired civic staffer builds volunteer network“So many of them were asked to vacate their premises, their water connections were cut off. In some cases, the landlords removed tiles from their roofs to force them out of their rooms. A lot of them were subjected to humiliation before they ended up hitting the streets to return home,” Goswami said. Goswami recalled a conversation with a migrant worker, in particular. “After talking for some time he eased up a bit and started saying that people are getting very restless and if the situation is allowed to continue people will start killing themselves. Then as the conversations continued, he stopped speaking in general terms, and we realised that he was talking about himself.”“I realised that there will be more people like him and that our job does not end at giving rations. We have to check on their mental state,” Goswami said. Also read: India sees biggest one-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 5,242 new patientsWith the help of Caritas Goa, a church-run charity, a few trained counsellors began to reach out to the migrant workers. “Several people came forward to talk their heart out and explained their issues,” Goswami said.“A lot of the workers I spoke to talked of the frustration of not being allowed to travel home and even speaking of willingness to walk home all the way to MP (Madhya Pradesh). I tried to reassure them that the government was working on some plans but even I couldn’t say so confidently,” Divya Raphael, one of the counsellors, said.Around 51 workers came forward to speak to counsellors, who visited them in the hutments where they lived — mostly around construction sites in Alto Betim and Ramnagar, Pilerne on the outskirts of Panjim — during the second and third week of the lockdown. One of the primary grouses was not being allowed to go home.“Nobody is happy to be getting free food, nobody is happy to be standing in line. People are leaving their homes and coming to work just to get by. They are not at all proud to get ration for free. Dignity is very important and it is very humiliating for them to come out and stand in line to receive free food. Everyone wants to earn their money with dignity. They are lining up for government help because they are helpless,” he added. To address their economic distress, the volunteer group has further created a database of the workers on their website.“I started by delivering rations for around 200 migrant labourers who were building the new high court complex opposite the Secretariat and were left abandoned by the contractor. The idea to do some relief work and then let the government take over,” said Miriam Koshy, an artist and former business student, who started the volunteer network.However, as the scale of the operations grew, the volunteers realised that their database could be put to better use. “Now that the lockdown is partially lifted and the monsoon is approaching, many people are looking to repair the roofs of their houses or are looking to grow their own food or even doing rainwater harvesting. So our idea was to connect the labourers to the community,” she explained. In Goa, which is a Covid-19 green zone, industries have reopened, including pharmaceutical companies and manufacturing units. But in the absence of public transportation, full-scale economic activity is yet to start. Three Shramik Special trains — two to Udhampur (Jammu) and one to Gwalior (MP) — have already departed ferrying 2,000 migrant labourers; around 80,000 migrant labourers have registered with the state government to be allowed to travel home.“If they are away from home, they are unable to help those who are at home because they are not earning anything. If they were back home, at least they would have fields to work on. Many have aged or ailing parents. Nobody knows when the crisis is going to end,” Goswami said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-salutes-goa-based-volunteer-calls-for-need-to-check-mental-health-issues-in-migrant-labourers/story-PlMakuE4LuFbPdb4hDYyHP.html
18-05-2020||India||Uddhav Thackeray takes oath as legislator, enters state legislative council||Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray on Monday took oath as a member of the legislative council (MLC) at the Vidhan Bhavan. This is the first time a Sena chief became a member of the state legislature and he is the second from the Thackeray family to become a member of the assembly after his son Aaditya Thackeray.Thackeray was accompanied by his wife Rashmi and son Aaditya at the oath ceremony held in the Central Hall of the state legislature. He was one among the nine candidates belonging to the ruling coalition of Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) and opposition party who were declared elected unopposed to the council last week.His election to the House was crucial for him to continue as the CM, as he had to fulfill the constitutional requirement of becoming a member of either of the Houses before May 27-- six months from the day he took oath as the chief minister.Speaking to reporters outside Vidhan Bhavan, Shiv Sena MP and party secretary Vinayak Raut, said, “All Shiv Sainiks are proud that their leader is taking oath as a legislator today. The state has got good leadership [under Thackeray].”Besides Thackeray, eight new members of Maharashtra Legislative Council -- Shiv Sena’s Neelam Gorhe, Nationalist Congress Party ‘s (NCP) Shashikant Shinde, Amol Mitkari, Congress’s Rajesh Rathod and Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Ranjitsinh Mohite Patil, Gopichand Padalkar, Pravin Datke, and Ramesh Karad also took an oath.In toal, 14 candidates were in the fray for the MLC election but later four -- two each from the BJP and the NCP -- withdrew their nomination, while an independent candidate’s nomination was rejected.With the election on the nine seats of the upper house pushed back because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), political uncertainty loomed over the state on how to get Thackeray elected to the council.The state cabinet had recommended that Thackeray should be nominated by Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, as the MLC polls were deferred due to the pandemic. But the governor did not take the decision, prompting Thackeray to raise the issue with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Later, the MVA constituents and Governor Koshyari wrote to the Election Commission to hold the legislative council polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uddhav-thackeray-takes-oath-as-legislator-enters-state-legislative-council/story-gmN9VFqqBAethJX1sQNjxH.html
18-05-2020||India||Migrants pelt stones at police, public in Ahmedabad||Nearly 100 migrant workers gathered on a busy road connecting IIM Ahmedabad with Vastrapur area here on Monday and pelted stones at police and people passing by during the lockdown, an official said.A local claimed the migrant workers were demanding that they be allowed to go back to their native places.Police lobbed teargas shells to disperse the rioters and detained several suspects, an official from the city police control room said.Nearly 100 migrants suddenly came on the road in the morning and engaged in indiscriminate stone-pelting, he said.They hurled stones at the police and people passing by in vehicles, he said.On getting information about the incident, a large police force was rushed to the spot. The police lobbed teargas shells to disperse the mob and brought the situation under control, the official said.Combining operation was underway at a labourers’ settlement nearby to nab the culprits hiding in the area, he said, adding several suspects were detained from the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrants-pelt-stones-at-police-public-in-ahmedabad/story-h647DCHycwxUN8dzgwfcnK.html
18-05-2020||India||Ban on entry of people from 4 states, total lockdown on Sundays: Karnataka CM||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa said on Monday people from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Kerala and Tamil Nadu will not be allowed to enter the state till May 31, news agency ANI reported.Yediyurappa said there will be a complete lockdown on Sundays with the provision of essential services only, according to ANI. There will be strict lockdown measures in containment zones and economic activities will be permitted in other areas.The chief minister said state transport corporation buses and private buses will run as will trains running within the state, according to ANI. All shops will be allowed to open, it added.The Centre has extended the nationwide lockdown to May 31 and said that movement of passengers would be allowed only with mutual consent between the states during the fourth phase.Karnataka has reported more than 1,100 patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and more than 30 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ban-on-entry-of-people-from-4-states-total-lockdown-on-sundays-karnataka-cm-yediyurappa/story-bXAzRoFNRPSv1eaGlJrD8H.html
18-05-2020||India||Ahead of big WHO meet, 100+ countries back calls for probe into Covid-19 origin||The European Union-drafted resolution to seek a probe into the origin of the coronavirus disease that has killed over 300,000 people and the WHO’s response has gained the support of over 100 countries including India, according to documents filed ahead of the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) biggest annual event on Monday.The World Health Assembly, the WHO’s key policy making body, is meeting Monday afternoon, 3.30 pm IST. This is the first time that the meeting is being held via video conference. The conference will be wrapped up in two days for now and resume once the world gets a grip on the virus that has infected millions of people.The resolution seeks a probe into the source of the virus, now called Sars-CoV-2, and the route of its introduction to the human population. Coronavirus, the disease that the pathogen causes, was first detected in China’s Wuhan city.But Beijing, which has been accused of trying to conceal the disease in the early days of its detection last year, occasionally insists that it could have originated elsewhere. More than one Chinese foreign ministry official has pointed to the United States.Support probe into Covid-19 originThe European Union and its Member States, the African Group and its Member States, Albania, Australia, Bangladesh, Belarus, Bhutan, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Guyana, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Malaysia, Maldives, Mexico, Monaco, Montenegro, New Zealand, North Macedonia, Norway, Paraguay, Peru, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Russian Federation, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine and United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern IrelandAustralia, who had played a lead role in building support for the resolution that targets China, has welcomed the growing support for the probe, according to news agency Reuters. Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne said the resolution is “an important part of the conversation we started”.Australia has also borne the brunt of Beijing’s anger for this role. Chinese authorities have threatened to impose heavy duties on barley imports and already suspended beef imports from four Australian suppliers.Chinese foreign ministry has denied that the decision was linked to Australia’s push for the Covid origin inquiry that it has described as “highly irresponsible” and could “disrupt international cooperation in fighting the pandemic”.Australia, backed by the United States, however, stayed the course and kept up its efforts.An updated document on the WHO’s website indicates that support for the resolution has been growing.Saudi Arabia, Qatar and the 54-nation Africa Group have also signed off on the resolution - now supported by 123 members - that not only puts China’s role but also that of the WHO leadership under scrutiny. In particular, WHO director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus.The draft resolution asks the WHO chief to start an “impartial, independent and comprehensive evaluation” to review experience gained and lessons learned from the WHO-coordinated international health response including an evaluation of the effectiveness of the mechanisms at WHO’s disposal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-big-who-meet-100-countries-back-calls-for-probe-into-covid-19-origin/story-ar3sLPaPYSI31fCrHSK4HN.html
18-05-2020||India||Swiggy to lay off 1,100 employees amid coronavirus crisis||Swiggy will lay off more than 1,000 employees over the next few days as the coronavirus pandemic has severely impacted demand, the food delivery company said in a statement on Monday.“Today is one of the saddest days for Swiggy as we have to go through an unfortunate downsizing exercise. We, unfortunately, have to part ways with 1,100 of our employees spanning across grades and functions in the cities and head office over the next few days,” Sriharsha Majety, Swiggy’s co-founder and CEO, wrote in an email to the employees, according to the company’s blog. “While Covid might have long-term tailwinds for the delivery business and digital commerce when things settle eventually, nobody knows how long the uncertainty will last. We, therefore, need to be prepared to see through this winter, to emerge stronger on the other side,” he said.Majety said Swiggy will scale down or shut down adjacent businesses that are either going to be highly volatile or will not be highly relevant for the next 18 months. “The biggest impact here is on the cloud kitchens business, with many unknowns about volumes through the year. Since the onset of Covid, we have already begun the process of shutting down our kitchen facilities temporarily or permanently, depending on their outlook and profitability profile,” he said.Swiggy will have to cut expenses to be able to achieve profitability with a smaller order volume than planned earlier, he said. The company needs to reduce costs in order to “withstand any further risks” from the Covid-19 uncertainty, he added. The move by Swiggy came days after restaurant aggregator Zomato said it will lay off around 13% of its workforce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-zomato-swiggy-lays-off-1-100-employees/story-FOHI0r9J22TIOBYuYcE1MM.html
18-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan to intensify into super cyclonic storm, heavy rains forecast for 6 states||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday issued a warning of heavy rainfall for six states till May 21 in the light of extremely severe cyclonic storm Amphan.The weather bureau said Odisha, West Bengal and its sub-Himalayan parts, Sikkim, Assam and Meghalaya will receive heavy rainfall till May 21.Cyclonic storm ‘Amphan’ is likely to intensify into a super cyclone by Monday evening and hit the West Bengal and Bangladesh coasts as a very severe cyclone with a wind speed up to 185km per hour on Wednesday.Union home minister Amit Shah said Prime Minister Narendra Modi will meet the officials of his ministry and the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) at 4pm. The Prime Minister is NDMA’s chairperson.The coastal districts in West Bengal and Odisha are bracing for heavy rains and wind speed up to 185kmph as cyclonic storm Amphan is likely to intensify into a super cyclone by Monday evening. The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) has issued an advisory to West Bengal and Odisha as teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) were deployed at several places to carry out evacuation process of almost 11 lakh people in the coastal areas of these states. IMD has said extremely severe cyclonic storm ‘AMPHAN’ (pronounced UM-PUN) is very likely to intensify further into a super cyclonic storm during the next six hours. It is very likely to move nearly northwards for some time and then north-northeastwards across the northwest Bay of Bengal and cross West Bengal-Bangladesh coasts between Digha and Hatiya Islands (Bangladesh) during the afternoon or the evening of May 20 as a very severe cyclonic storm with maximum sustained wind speed of 155-165kmph gusting to 185kmph.Heavy to extremely heavy rainfall, accompanied by high-speed winds and tidal waves are expected in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-to-intensify-into-super-cyclonic-storm-heavy-rains-forecast-for-6-states/story-ZS6ZRGUCV4IqE2iDTkS3IP.html
18-05-2020||India||Auraiya road accident: Sub-inspector, 7 constables suspended||A police sub-inspector and seven constables were suspended on Sunday for negligence in discharging duty in connection with the Auraiya road accident in Uttar Pradesh, news agency PTI reported.Two more migrant workers died on Sunday following injuries sustained in the road accident a day earlier at Auraiya in Uttar Pradesh, raising the death toll in the incident to 26.Twenty-four migrant workers had died and 36 injured on Saturday early morning when a trailer truck carrying sacks of lime along with 43 people rammed into the back of a stationary truck with many other migrant workers sitting in it near a roadside eatery on the national highway in Auraiya.Auraiya Superintendent of Police suspended a sub-inspector and seven constables for negligence in discharging duty on Sunday evening.On Saturday, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had directed the suspension SHOs of two police stations - Fatehpur Sikri (Agra) and Indirapuram (Ghaziabad) after the accident.A case has been registered against the drivers, owners and transporters of both the vehicles under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Motor Vehicles Act at Kotwali police station in Auraiya, PTI reported.Investigations are going on in this regard, police said, adding that efforts are being made to arrest the drivers, owners and transporters of both the vehicles.Another accident took place on Saturday, on the Lucknow-Agra expressway. A truck driver, who is believed to have fallen asleep at the wheel, crashed into a parked vehicle, killing a man and a woman who were travelling with their five-year-old son to Bihar from Haryana. The duo had gotten off the vehicle and refilling it with petrol when they were mowed down.The child survived the accident.The lockdown since March 25, put in place to slow the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has left hundreds of thousands of people without work, wages and, often, food - forcing most of them to set out on gruelling journeys on foot.There have been several instances of people succumbing to the exhaustion in peak summer heat, while others have been run over on roads and train tracks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/auraiya-road-accident-sub-inspector-7-constables-suspended/story-q2qFc0IsW0XKD5t3IfXynO.html
18-05-2020||India||States cannot dilute restrictions under lockdown 4 guidelines, says Centre||The states and union territories were advised against diluting restrictions under the lockdown 4.0 guidelines by the Centre on Monday as the country entered the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown to fight coronavirus. The restrictions will remain in place till May 31.“As emphasised in my earlier letters, I would like to reiterate again that states/union territories cannot dilute restrictions imposed in the MHA guidelines. States/UTs, based on their assessment of the situation, may prohibit certain other activities in various zones, or impose such restrictions as necessary,” home secretary Ajay Bhalla said in a letter. The ministry underlined that the new guidelines have been issued after taking into consideration the views of the state governments following the video conference held by Prime Minister Modi with the chief ministers on May 11.“I would urge you all to ensure compliance of the new guidelines and direct all concerned authorities for their strict implementation,” the secretary added. Under the new guidelines, the states will now categorise red, orange and green zones taking into consideration the revised guidelines issued by the ministry of health. Inside these zones, containment and buffer zones will be identified by the district administration. In containment zones, only essential services will be allowed.In another significant step that stood out was conditional approval to interstate movement of passenger vehicles and buses with “mutual consent” of the states and the union territories involved.The home ministry also allowed the resumption of app-based cab services; gave permission to the functioning of all shops, markets and commercial establishments except those in malls; and eased curbs on private offices that were previously allowed to function with 33% staff strength.Metro train services; domestic and international passenger flights; schools and colleges; hospitality services; cinema halls; shopping malls and dine-in restaurants; and religious and political gatherings will continue to be prohibited across the country. Only special trains — a pair of 15 premium trains and those ferrying migrants to their homes — will run in this period.Also, the ban on non-essential travel between 7pm and 7am will continue. Spitting and consumption of liquor, gutkha and tobacco in public places continue to be banned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-cannot-dilute-restrictions-under-lockdown-4-guidelines-says-centre/story-gEW4CYcKyv6FUBl61GOiGP.html
18-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Amphan likely to turn into ‘super cyclone’, says govt; will hit Bengal coast and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times. Amphan likely to turn into ‘super cyclone’, says govt; will hit Bengal coastThe Ministry of Home Affairs on Monday said that cyclonic storm ‘Amphan’ is likely to intensify into a ‘super cyclone’ by Monday evening. It said that Amphan will hit West Bengal and Bangladesh coasts as a ‘very severe cyclone’ with wind speed up to 185 km per hour on Wednesday. Read moreIndia sees biggest one-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 5,242 new patientsIndia on Monday reported the biggest one day spike in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in a single day so far as 5,242 more people tested positive in the last 24 hours, Union health ministry data showed. Read moreSmiling Buddha: All about Pokhran test that made India a nuclear powerIndia is observing the 46th anniversary of its first nuclear test in Rajasthan’s Pokhran on Monday. The peaceful nuclear test was codenamed the ‘Smiling Buddha’ and conducted on May 18, 1974. It made India a nuclear power. Read moreUnited States to deport 161 Indian nationals this weekThe United States this week will deport 161 Indian nationals, most of whom had entered the country from its southern border with Mexico and have exhausted all legal options. A special chartered flight will take them to Punjab’s Amritsar. Read moreWhat did eight weeks and $3 trillion buy the Covid-19 in the fight against coronavirus?Unemployment checks are flowing, $490 billion has been shipped to small businesses, and the US Federal Reserve has put about $2.5 trillion and counting behind domestic and global markets. Fears of overwhelmed hospitals and millions of US deaths from the new coronavirus have diminished, if not disappeared. Read moreThis happy kid who just found out his ‘superpower’ is making the Internet a happy place. WatchHaving superpowers is something every child dreams of. Whether it’s superhero comics or the magical world of Hogwarts, the desire to possess similar powers fuels children’s imagination. But, not always does one get bit by a radio-active spider or simply receive a letter from an owl to join a wizarding school. However, they can surely feel that sense of magic with the help of a little improvisation from adults. Read moreInternational Museum Day 2020: Groove Gully, the travelling museum for kidsSuggesting a visit to a museum sometimes elicits responses like rolling of the eyes and an exasperated sigh. But it is an undeniable fact that museums remain a fountainhead of knowledge and when imaginatively curated, they’re a source of edutainment too. Today is International Museum Day, a reminder to the world that museums can actually educate and entertain. Read moreBefore Ganguly, India were a humble, polite team: Nasser Hussain explains how Sourav ‘changed Indian cricket’The likes of Sunil Gavaskar, Anil Kumble, VVS Laxman, Yuvraj Singh, Harbhajan Singh have often credited former India captain and current BCCI president Sourav Gangluly for changing the face of Indian cricket. The aggression and positivity with which Ganguly led India from 2000 to 2005 has been earmarked as one of the glorious eras of Indian cricket mainly because of the manner in which they played their cricket. Echoing the views of many former Indian greats, former England captain Nasser Hussain on Sunday lauded Ganguly for changing Indian cricket. Read moreCBSE datesheet for 10th, 12th board exams todayThe Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will release the revised datesheet for the remaining board exams of class 10th and 12th, today May 18, 2020. Union HRD Minister Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal on Saturday informed the same on the microblogging site, Twitter. Earlier, it was scheduled to be released on May 16 at 5 pm. Read moreSanjay Khan to relaunch Zayed Khan: ‘He is one of the most handsome actors; as a father, it is my duty to make a film for him’Actor Zayed Khan is all set to make an acting comeback as father Sanjay Khan has taken it upon himself to relaunch him. Sanjay is planning a biopic on 1947 India-Pakistan war hero Brigadier Mohammad Usman with his son in the titular role. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-amphan-cyclone-to-turn-into-super-cyclone-and-all-the-latest-news/story-LhDUjKqwzKJFLB0htxEQaI.html
18-05-2020||India||‘Govt’s stimulus package totally inadequate, left several sections high and dry’: Chidambaram||Former finance minister P Chidambaram on Monday expressed “deep regret” that the government’s fiscal stimulus package has “left high and dry” several sections, including 13 crore families in the bottom half of the population, migrant workers and farmers.“We express our thorough disappointment and request the government to reconsider the stimulus package and announce a revised and comprehensive fiscal stimulus package of not less than Rs 10 lakh crore of real additional expenditure, equivalent to 10% of GDP,” he told a news conference via video conference.The senior Congress leader said a fiscal stimulus of Rs 1,86,650 crore, amounting to barely 0.91% of GDP, will be “totally inadequate given the gravity of the economic crisis and the dire situation” in which people find themselves because of the Covid-19 crisis.“Most analysts, rating agencies and banks have placed the size of the fiscal stimulus at between 0.8 to 1.5%,” he said.Also Read: Economic package will have multiplier effect, says FM Nirmala SitharamanFollowing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement of a Rs 20-lakh crore stimulus package on May 12, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman gave details of that package in five tranches over as many days.Chidambaram said he and the Congress have carefully analysed contents of the five tranches and looked into analyses put out by economists, experts, agencies and banks.“We note, with deep regret, that the fiscal stimulus package has left several sections high and dry, including the bottom half of the population (13 crore families), migrant workers, farmers, landless agricultural labour, daily wage non-agricultural labour, workers who have been laid off or retrenched, workers in unorganised or unregistered businesses and units who have lost their jobs, self-employed who have no work, seven crore shopkeepers, lower middle class families who have run out of cash and are forced to borrow, and 5.8 crore MSMEs,” he explained.Chidambaram said the finance minister had acknowledged that additional expenditure must be financed by additional borrowing.“The true value of the fiscal stimulus package will be known when we know what is the additional borrowing in 2020-21 to finance the additional expenditure over and above the expenditure budget of Rs 30,42,230 crore. The truth cannot be hidden for long,” he said. “Let me state categorically that there can be no fiscal stimulus to the economy without additional expenditure over and above the budgeted expenditure,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-s-stimulus-package-has-left-several-sections-high-and-dry-chidambaram/story-RgjBZqPH0VUwzNr30lBDVN.html
18-05-2020||India||‘Amphan’ to intensify into super cyclone by evening: Home ministry||Cyclonic storm ‘Amphan’ is likely to intensify into a super cyclone by Monday evening and hit the West Bengal and Bangladesh coasts as a very severe cyclone with a wind speed up to 185 km per hour on Wednesday, the Home Ministry said. In an advisory to West Bengal and Odisha governments, the ministry said ‘Amphan’ (pronounced as UM-PUN) is now spotted over the central parts of South Bay of Bengal and the adjoining central Bay of Bengal. It has been moving nearly northwards with a speed of 13 kmph during past six hours and lay centred at 0530 hours IST on Monday, the ministry said. The cyclone is currently over west-central and adjoining central parts of South Bay of Bengal (near latitude 13.2°N and longitude 86.3°E) about 790 km nearly south of Paradip (Odisha), 940 km south-southwest of Digha (West Bengal) and 1,060 km south-southwest of Khepupara (Bangladesh), a home ministry official said, quoting an India Meteorological Department bulletin. The storm is very likely to intensify further into a super cyclonic storm by Monday evening, the official said. It is very likely to move north-northeastwards across northwest Bay of Bengal and cross West Bengal-Bangladesh coasts between Digha (West Bengal) and Hatiya Islands (Bangladesh) during the afternoon or evening of May 20 as a very severe cyclonic storm with maximum sustained wind speed of 155-165 kmph gusting upto 185 kmph, the official said. The National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC) on Saturday reviewed the preparedness for the impending cyclone and directed immediate assistance to West Bengal and Odisha, which are likely to hit by the storm. A meeting of the NCMC, headed by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba, was held to take stock the preparations for the cyclone. The cabinet secretary took stock of the current situation and preparedness for rescue and relief operations and directed that immediate assistance, as required, be provided, an official statement had said. Heavy to extremely heavy rainfall, accompanied by high speed winds and tidal waves are expected in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amphan-to-intensify-into-super-cyclone-by-evening-home-ministry/story-rtPJa0t5s7UtxJlK8DbNQP.html
18-05-2020||India||Religious heads in Kerala want temples, mosques, churches to open in a staggered manner||Thiruvananthapuram: Several heads of shrines, cutting across religious lines, in Kerala have written to the state government seeking its permission to open temples, mosques and churches in a staggered manner in view of the lockdown restrictions that were imposed since end-March to contain the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.They have reached out to the state government amid a growing cash crunch, as devotees are staying away from the places of worship due to the pandemic.However, the Centre’s announcement to impose lockdown 4:0, which has come into effect from Monday and will be enforced till May 31, has further disappointed the shrine heads.The Centre’s directive has barred gatherings in all places of worship in the state, like the rest of the country.Cardinal George Alencherry, Major Archbishop of the Syro-Malabar Church, wrote to Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday seeking permission to open Christian religious centres to conduct daily ceremonies with the faithful in a restricted manner. The All India Imam Council has also approached the government. The Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB), which runs 2,000-odd temples in south and central Kerala, including the hill shrine Sabarimala in Pathanamthitta district, has urged the state government to at least allow devotees, who want to make significant offerings.“Many are devoid of spiritual support these days. If the lockdown continues, it’ll lead to a growing psychological conflict. No one will be able to prevent such consequences. Churches must be allowed to open in a restricted manner. Religious ceremonies are essential for a believer for solace and inner peace,” said Cardinal Alencherry.The Syro-Malabar church, which runs thousands of educational institutions, hospitals and other charitable establishments in Kerala, the aftershocks of lockdown restrictions are deeper, as it is struggling to meet the expenses required for both institutional upkeep and payment of staff salaries.Though the church introduced virtual offerings they failed to attract believers, say insiders.The Muslim bodies stand divided over the lockdown norms. The All India Imam Council has written to CM Vijayan, urging him to open mosques in a limited manner. Samastha Kerala Sunni Federation leader Basheer Faizy Deshamangalam in a social media post commented that it is unfair to keep mosques closed when liquor stores and other establishments are allowed to open.But many within the community don’t share Deshamangalam’s views. “We need to apply our minds. It’s painful that all mosques are closed during the holy month of Ramzan. It’d be difficult to maintain social distancing norms if the mosques are opened,” said a senior Indian Union of Muslim League (IUML) leader.The TDB had introduced an online facility for major offerings in 27 prominent shrines across the state, which met a lukewarm response. Now, the board plans to urge the government to allow ‘darshan’ for those who book significant offerings online.The TDB had warned its 3,500-odd employees that monthly salary would be a luxury if the prevailing situation persists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/religious-heads-in-kerala-want-temples-mosques-churches-to-open-in-a-staggered-manner/story-LhjUZFsiHyDJNd54gTCttI.html
18-05-2020||India||Amphan transforming into super cyclone, first after deadly 1999 super cyclone in Bay of Bengal||The very severe cyclonic storm Amphan over central parts of south Bay of Bengal intensified into an extremely severe cyclonic storm on Monday morning. It is expected to further intensify into a super cyclonic storm with wind speeds of 230 kmph to 240 kmph, gusting to 265 kmph during the next 12 hours, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday morning.The super cyclonic storm is, however, likely to weaken marginally in strength when it crosses the West Bengal and Bangladesh coasts between Digha in West Bengal and Hatiya Islands in Bangladesh during the afternoon or evening on May 20. By then, it is expected to be a very severe cyclonic storm with maximum wind speeds of 155 kmph to 165 kmph, gusting to 185 kmph.“We are expecting Amphan to cross the coasts as a very severe cyclonic storm. Preparatory measures for damage control are being taken by both West Bengal and Odisha,” said IMD director General M Mohapatra. Large-scale damage is expected in West Bengal and Odisha, according to IMD’s latest bulletin. There will be extensive damage to kutcha and even old or damaged pukka constructions, uprooting of communications and power poles, disruption of rail and road links, extensive damage to crops and plantations, and large boats and ships can get torn from their moorings.This is the first super cyclonic storm in the Bay of Bengal since the 1999 super cyclone that hit the Odisha coast and killed more than 9,000 people. There was a super cyclone in the Arabian Sea last year called Kyarr, which formed in October and was concentrated in the ocean. There were no fatalities from Kyarr. The last extremely severe cyclone to hit land was Fani, which hit Odisha in May 2019.Sanjib Banerjee, deputy director general of IMD’s Regional Meteorological Centre in Kolkata, said: “Even though Amphan is likely to intensify into a super cyclone over the sea, it will then start to lose its steam as it approaches the coast. It will first weaken into an extremely severe cyclone and then further de-intensify into a very severe cyclone before hitting the land.”Tuhin Ghosh, director of the School of Oceanographic Studies at Jadavpur University, said: “The damage that Amphan can inflict will depend much on the direction in which it travels and the timing of the landfall. If it hits in a south to north direction and there is high tide at that time, the damage could be more. That’s what happened when cyclone Aila hit Sagar Island in May 2009. But if it travels in an oblique direction and there is low tide, then the damage could be less, as was seen in November 2016 when Bulbul hit the Bengal coast.”Authorities and people are faced with a unique situation where evacuation has to be quick and effective in the face of a deadly storm, but at the same time social distancing has to be maintained and first line responders protected. Amphan will be a test case on how to handle natural disasters during the Coronavirus pandemic. As the monsoon is set to advance, more exigencies are expected such as urban flooding, landslides and more cyclones. This would mean the need for more rescue shelters and sanitary facilities for them.The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) has shared an advisory with all cyclone-prone states on disaster preparedness during the Covid-19 crisis. “We have underlined that first-line responders like police, state disaster response forces, and all volunteers engaged in relief work will have to be provided with PPE kits and N95 masks. Cyclone-prone states like Odisha have a lot of multi-purpose cyclone shelters. But now we can use them to only one-third capacity because social distancing needs to be maintained. So, states have been asked to identify new shelters and buildings,” Pavan Kumar Singh, joint advisor for NDMA, said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amphan-transforming-into-super-cyclone-first-after-deadly-1999-super-cyclone-in-bay-of-bengal/story-12vMmByNipIQwibsJwHJIO.html
18-05-2020||India||PM Modi to hold meeting with home ministry, NDMA today over Cyclone Amphan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a meeting with officials of the ministry of home affairs (MHA) and National Disaster Management Agency (NDMA) on Monday amid a warning that cyclonic storm ‘Amphan’ is likely to intensify into a super cyclone by Monday evening.“To review the arising cyclone situation in various parts of the country, PM @narendramodi ji will chair a high level meeting with MHA & NDMA, today at 4pm,” Union home minister Amit Shah wrote on Twitter.MHA has said Cyclone Amphan will hit West Bengal and Bangladesh coasts as a ‘very severe cyclone’ with wind speed up to 185km per hour on Wednesday.The ministry said in an advisory to West Bengal and Odisha governments that Amphan’’ (pronounced as UM-PUN) is now spotted over the central parts of the south Bay of Bengal and the adjoining central Bay of Bengal.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said ‘Amphan’ will cross West Bengal-Bangladesh coasts between the Indian state’s Digha and Hatiya island of the neighbouring country in the afternoon or evening of May 20 as a very severe cyclonic storm.Experts said north Odisha coast will face the maximum impact of Cyclone Amphan when it makes landfall.“Wind speed expected to be 110-120 kmph, gusting up to 130 kmph. Balasore, Bhadrak, Jajpur, Mayurbhanj dist can be affected on 20 May (when it makes landfall), IMD Bhubaneswar scientist Umashankar Das said, according to news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-hold-meet-with-mha-ndma-at-4-pm-to-review-amphan-cyclone-situation-in-country/story-TlZZC5jLaNhK4dAhYgTnEJ.html
18-05-2020||India||Defence stocks surge after rise in FDI limit via automatic route; Hal, BEL among gainers||Shares in defence manufacturing companies shot up on Monday after the government raise foreign direct investment (FDI) by allowing 74% up from 49% under the automatic route via automatic route as a part of the economic stimulus announced to help the economy during the coronavirus pandemic. Major defence stocks rose up to 10% in intra-day deals bucking the overall weak broader market trends.Shares of Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL) jumped 10%, Bharat Electronics Ltd (BEL) rose 5.53%, BEML advanced 5.3%, Astra Microwave Products surged 4.93% and Bharat Dynamics was trading up 4.71% on the S&P BSE Sensex.India’s benchmark indices erased early gains and fell sharply on Monday as stimulus measures announced over the weekend failed to cheer and investors fretted over the extension of the nationwide lockdown till May 31.The S&P BSE Sensex declined over 957.78 points or 3.08% to 30,139.95 level and NSE’s Nifty50 was at 8,854.35, down 282.50 points or 3.09%, at 11:20am.Both the indices were dragged by bank stocks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-stocks-surge-after-rise-in-fdi-limit-via-automatic-route-hal-bel-among-gainers/story-dqTyqOahCrghVjTYEasdlK.html
18-05-2020||India||Covid-19 update: 25 new cases reported in Chhattisgarh on Sunday, highest in two months||Total 25 new Covid-19 cases were detected on Sunday taking the total number of coronavirus-infected people in Chhattisgarh to 92. This is the highest number of cases found in a single day in Chhattisgarh in the last two months.As per the state’s health department, total active Covid-19 cases are now 33 in the state and 59 have been discharged after recovery.“Total nine cases were detected from Balod, six new cases each were also reported from Balodabazar and Janjgir-Champa, two from Kabirdham and one each from Gariaband and Surguja,” a senior health official said.“Most of these cases were detected in migrant labourers,” the officer added.Also read: Lockdown 4.0 begins with more relaxations - All you need to knowTotal 20 patients are admitted to AIIMS Raipur and the rest to the other hospitals in Raipur “The Covid-19 count in the state now stands at 92 but the number of active cases is 33 while 59 others have been discharged after recovery,” the official said.Also read: India sees biggest one-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 5,242 new patientsChhattisgarh has total 92 coronavirus cases with no fatalities till date. Fifty-nine people have been discharged from the hospitals or cured while active cases of the infection stand at 33. The state has tested 34,633 people for Covid-19 so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-25-new-cases-reported-in-chhattisgarh-on-sunday-highest-in-two-months/story-Un6EHUZrlkRIXRkaJEH87I.html
18-05-2020||India||US daily calls PM Modi a mobiliser, says his popularity soared during Covid-19||The entire country has rallied behind Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the coronavirus pandemic, leading American newspaper The New York Times has said.In an article on the Covid-19 crisis across the world, and in India, the newspaper said that PM Modi’s approval ratings have soared even higher, sometimes touching 90 per cent in the last few months. It also compared PM Modi to other world leaders like US President Donald Trump and Russian president Vladimir Putin. The NYT said that unlike these leaders, PM Modi has been “thriving” during the coronavirus crisis.If India rides out the pandemic in a decent form, PM Modi may emerge even stronger, the NYT further said in the article. It recalled the Pulwama bombing and India’s response which further bolstered PM Modi’s re-election bid in 2019 to make the point.PM Modi is widely seen as a mobiliser, and not as a despot, and that is the reason why his various calls to the nation during the Covid-19 lockdown were largely followed by the people, said NYT. As the coronavirus crisis gripped the country, PM Modi appeared before the nation and asked them to observe Janta Curfew, and the people obeyed. That was March 22.Since then, PM Modi has appeared thrice before the nation - first time to announce a nationwide lockdown, then its extension and most recently, to announce a Rs 20 lakh crore financial package - and all his requests have been adhered to.Even the unique exercises like asking countrymen to stand in their doorways and clap at a certain time, or to light candles at another, have been followed by millions. NYT called them as “softer, feel-good exercises”.The NYT story, however, also pointed out the hardships faced by migrant workers who are leaving in hordes to their native places since they can’t find work in locked down country. The accident in Uttar Pradesh’s Auraiya is also mentioned in the article.But what worked for PM Modi, according to NYT, is the fact that he never downplayed the virus threat or said India had capabilities it didn’t. The Prime Minister also worked well with the state authorities regardless of ideology, it further said.It also said that the number of infections in India and the death toll is very less for a country which has a population of more than 1.3 billion.India on Monday reported the biggest one-day spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in a single day so far as 5,242 more people tested positive in the last 24 hours, Union health ministry data showed.The number of people who have died after contracting the highly contagious disease also rose to 3,029 up from 2,872 from Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-a-mobiliser-his-popularity-soared-during-covid-19-report/story-cD0FWV3czX4GiN0QGEwEPP.html
18-05-2020||India||How 12 trainee IAS officers in Rajasthan are helping in Covid-19 fight||They are dynamic, they are ingenious, they are open-minded and above all, they are handy to perform any given task. The 12 under training (UT) officers of the 2018 batch of Indian Administrative Service (IAS) are playing a significant role in fighting the war against coronavirus in 10 districts of Rajasthan.These officers under training are not in news. They are not supposed to be. They must work behind the scenes to tackle the public health crisis. But the district collectors where they are working are happy with their performance even after their probation period got over on April 24.Sriganganagar collector Shiv Prasad M Nakate said this crisis is something that no one has faced before. “Many of the officers under training are at the frontline, fighting the pandemic. As the most of officers are from engineering background they have been assigned some difficult but important tasks such as data analysis, contact tracing, management of camps and quarantine facilities, logistics and interstate coordination for migrant labours,” he said.Sriganganagar is a coronavirus-free district.Nakate said that the young and energetic officers are always a great human resource in such a pandemic. “They are very handy in every situation. The trainee here has worked as an SDO and now he is dealing with the grievances. He performed as an asset in our war room as well,” he said. Abhishek Surana, who got the 10th rank in 2017 civil services examination, is posted as sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) in Bajju in Bikaner. He said, “There are certain disasters that need an immediate response, such as floods and earthquakes. But a pandemic require a standardised response. We learnt how to make relief camps, ensure sanitation and ensure no discrimination happens. These are the best practices needed to help reduce infections.”“We can extend these to tackle the present migrant worker crisis,” he added.The role of assistant collectors under training depends on their supervisors - the district collectors (DCs). This is the time they spend learning about the different departments they will be in charge of as DCs, said an official.In this pandemic, they are being used to collect data and help the administration. They have no legal powers. So their roles are ancillary - they can effectively act as helping hands as long as their training is not hampered, he added.Jodhpur collector Prakash Rajpurohit said what can be better than a practical learning and that these officers achieved a lot in this pandemic situation. “The officers here were very helpful in tasks like contact tracing, enforcement of laws, maintaining supplies and other assignments. They developed specific software to perform several operations smoothly,” he said.According to the order issued by the department of personal, officers under training deputed as assistant collectors in their respective districts are Atul Prakash (Kota), Abhishek Surana (Bikaner), Deshal Dan (Pali), Utsah Choudhary and Shilpa Singh (Jaipur), T Shubhmangala (Udaipur), Ram Prakash (Banswara), Mohammad Junaid (Sriganganagar), Mayank Manish and Aparna Gupta (Jodhpur), Nithya K (Ajmer) and Abhishek Khanna (Alwar).Interestingly, two married couples are also there in this team who are posted in Jaipur and Jodhpur. Utsah Choudhary (mechanical engineer) working as assistant collector in Jaipur said: “It happens once in a life time and we learnt how to implement the Epidemic Act, the Disaster Management Act, and other government directives so that preventive actions are enforced will be important.”He said normally the officers would not have gone into an in-depth study of these acts. “But this year is different and fortunately during our studies at Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNAA) in Mussoorie, our batch attended a health module based on encephalitis (an inflammation of the brain and a viral infection) conducted by senior IAS Arti Ahuja, additional secretary of health ministry. That was a great help.”Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel had described the Indian Administrative Service as the “steel frame” upon which the rest of the bureaucracy would rest and the much-needed transformation is rolling in due to dynamic and dedicated IAS officers who are bringing in fresher ideas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-12-trainee-ias-officers-in-rajasthan-are-helping-in-covid-19-fight/story-6Uv8F6g6HaV0DeEtEX9RjI.html
18-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Cases soar to 33,053 in Maharashtra, nearly one-third of national total||The number of coronavirus cases in the country breached the 96,000-mark on Monday. According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, the Covid-19 national tally stands at 96,169. There are 56,316 active coronavirus cases in the country, 36,823 patients have been cured or discharged while 3,029 people have died from the deadly contagion.Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra have crossed the 33,000-mark while in Gujarat, the second worst-affected state, the Covid-19 cases have crossed 11379.Here’s the statewise breakup of the number of coronavirus cases, deaths, and recoveries.MaharashtraWith 33053 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra continues to lead the state tally. The state has recorded 1198 deaths so far while 7688 patients have recovered.GujaratThe state is second in terms of number of Covid-19 cases. The tally in the state, as per the Ministry of Health, stands at 11379. While 659 people have died due to the coronavirus disease, Gujarat has seen 4499 recoveries so far.Tamil NaduThe southern state has 11224 coronavirus cases. Tamil Nadu has seen 4172 recoveries and 78 Covid-19 deaths.Also read: 550 districts in India have Covid-19 cases; many in rural areasDelhiAs many as 10054 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. One hundred and sixty people have died from the infection while 4485 have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 5202 on Monday. The state has reported 131 fatalities, and 2992 patients have recovered from the infection.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 4977 positive cases of coronavirus. Two hundred and forty-eight people have died from Covid-19 here while 2403 have recovered.Also read: India sees biggest one-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 5,242 new patientsUttar PradeshThe number of Covid-19 positive cases reaches 4259 in Uttar Pradesh. While 2441 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 104 have died from the infection here.West BengalThe number of infected cases in West Bengal reached 2677 on Monday. There have been 238 deaths and 959 recoveries in the state.TelanganaThe number of Covid-19 positive cases reaches 1551 in state so far. Nine hundred and ninety-two people have made a recovery from the virus while 34 people have died from Covid-19.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 2407 positive Covid-19 patients and 1456 cases of recovery. Fifty people have died.Punjab The Covid-19 tally jumped to 1964 on Monday. While 35 people have died in Punjab, 1366 patients have recovered. Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 1183. 13 people have died from the infection while 575 were cured.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 1147 Covid-19 cases and 37 deaths. As many as 509 people have been cured and discharged.Haryana The state has reported 910 coronavirus cases so far and 14 deaths. Five hundred and sixty-two people have recovered from Covid-19 in the state.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported 601 coronavirus cases on Monday. Kerala has witnessed four deaths due to Covid-19 while 497 people have successfully recovered.In Bihar, 1262 people have tested positive for coronavirus, eight people have died while 475 patients have recovered. Odisha has 828 Covid-19 positive patients, 220 have recovered while four people have died. Jharkhand has 223 Covid-19 cases, three patients have died and 113 have recovered.Uttarakhand has 92 coronavirus patients, 52 patients have recovered from the infection, one patient has died. Himachal Pradesh has 80 cases, three patients have died and 44 have recovered. Assam has reported 101 Covid-19 cases, two people have died while 41 people have recovered.Chhattisgarh has recorded 86 cases of coronavirus and 59 people have recovered. In Chandigarh, 191 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 51 have recovered, three people have died. Andaman has recorded 33 coronavirus cases, all patients have recovered.Ladakh has 43 patients, 24 people have recovered. Goa reported 29 cases of Covid-19 disease, 7 patients have recovered. Puducherry has reported 13 cases, 9 have recovered. Meghalaya has reported 13 cases and one death, 11 patients have recovered. One patient has died. Manipur had seven coronavirus cases, two have recovered. Tripura, meanwhile, has 167 cases, 85 patients have recovered.States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Dadar Nagar Havel, Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram. All patients in Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram have recovered. Sikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case yet.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-cases-soar-to-33-053-in-maharashtra-nearly-one-third-of-national-total/story-kPYzhFYmabDYxmwSxSwoDK.html
18-05-2020||India||Noida’s nodal officer helps with last rites of 62 year old who died due to Covid-19||A nodal officer in Noida came forward to help a family carry the body of a 62-year-old man, who died on Saturday after contracting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), and complete the burial rites.Shamsuddin’s three sons had taken his body to the cemetery in Sector 38A after he died at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences. They faced difficulty in carrying the body for burial after the funeral prayers as nobody came forward to help them. They were the only ones wearing personal protection kits (PPEs). And so was Rakesh Thakur, the nodal officer.So Thakur stepped in and carried the body of Shamsuddin along with his three sons to the ground to help them complete the process of the burial. “One has to forget about danger while extending help in times of crisis. I had the responsibility to conduct the funeral and realising this responsibility, I carried the body,” Thakur was quoted as saying by Hindustan.Gautam Buddh Nagar, adjoining Delhi, in western Uttar Pradesh has recorded five deaths due to coronavirus disease so far, all of them over 60 years of age, officials said on Sunday. The number of Covid-19 patients has risen to 255 in Gautam Buddh Nagar.Noida is part of the district.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/noida-s-nodal-officer-helps-with-last-rites-of-62-year-old-who-died-due-to-covid-19/story-x2o4GZsLwegTAdv68d9PfN.html
18-05-2020||India||414 migrant labourers who came back to Uttar Pradesh show Covid-19 symptoms||Hordes of migrants have returned to Uttar Pradesh from different parts of the country during the coronavirus lockdown. These workers were stranded in other states and had no work.Out of those who returned at least 414 migrant workers are exhibiting symptoms of coronavirus disease Covid-19, Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan reported. The health authorities in Uttar Pradesh said that all the migrant workers are being tested. The health department, with the help of ASHA workers, have so far tested 3.50 lakh workers, it further reported.Uttar Pradesh health secretary Amit Mohan Prasad said that these migrant labourers are first taken to shelter homes where they undergo thermal screening. The authorities then conduct rapid testing and pool testing. If a single case is found positive in a pool, all the group members are tested individually.The labourers who do not display any symptoms are then sent to home quarantine for 21 days. Village and mohalla committees are tasked with monitoring those workers.Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh reported 206 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 4,464, Dr Vikasendu Agrawal, Joint Director/State Surveillance Officer, Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) said in a statement.This is one of the highest number of Covid-19 cases reported in a single day in the state.The state also recorded eight more deaths due to Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the toll to 112. Of the eight deaths reported on Sunday, five were reported from Aligarh, while two Covid-19 patients died in Kanpur and one in Meerut.Agra is at the top with 27 fatalities, followed by Meerut (19), Moradabad (11), and Kanpur and Aligarh with (8) each. Jhansi, Mathura and Firozabad recorded four deaths each.Of the fresh Covid-19 cases reported on Sunday, the highest number of 17 fresh cases was reported from Pratapgarh, 11 from Hapur, 10 each from Gautam Buddh Nagar and Lakhimpur Khiri, 9 from Ghaziabad, 8 each from Meerut, Lucknow, Rampur, Siddharthanagar, Bahraich, Ghazipur, Sitapur and Pilibhit.The number of Covid-19 patients discharged in the state stands at 2,636, while the count of active cases in the state is 1,716.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/414-migrant-labourers-who-came-back-to-uttar-pradesh-show-covid-19-symptoms/story-85f7PlWpWT519y4faneqeO.html
18-05-2020||India||India sees biggest one-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 5,242 new patients||India on Monday reported the biggest one day spike in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in a single day so far as 5,242 more people tested positive in the last 24 hours, Union health ministry data showed.The number of people who have died after contracting the highly contagious disease also rose to 3,029 up from 2,872 from Sunday, according to the health ministry’s Covid-19 dashboard at 8am.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe rise in the number of cases comes on a day India relaxed restrictions for the fourth phase of the lockdown put in place to fight the spread of the coronavirus disease till May 31.There are 56,316 active cases and 36,823 people or 38% have recovered from Covid-19. Ahead of announcing lockdown 4.0. the Centre on Saturday officials from 30 municipal areas spread across 12 states, which contribute 79% of India’s Covid-19 cases, to maintain high vigil and closely monitor areas of old cities, slums, migrant camps and other high-density pockets.Apart from this, 550 of India’s 736 districts had Covid-19 cases on May 17, an addition of around 180 districts in the last fortnight. This is according to data compiled from the states.As of Saturday, rural districts accounted for only 21% of the total number of cases in India but the numbers are increasing. Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh witnessed the maximum increase in the number of districts affected since May 1.Government officials largely attribute the increase in the number of Covid-19 cases to the return of hundreds of thousands of migrant workers to rural areas in these states, with weak health infrastructure. The Centre started special Shramik trains from May 1 even as thousands of others continue to walk hundreds of kilometres to their villages.Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Delhi are among those with the highest number of Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu on Sunday imposed lockdown 4.0 till the end of Ma, even as most of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ruled states such as Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh said they would follow the Centre’s guidelines on the extension. Meghalaya and Nagaland announced on Sunday that the existing restrictions would continue for the next round of lockdown beginning from Monday in the fight against Covid-19.Delhi, West Bengal, Goa and Jharkhand said they would announce norms for the fourth phase of lockdown on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sees-biggest-one-day-spike-in-covid-19-cases-with-5-242-new-patients/story-xCIXPTLR3bL9mCVBC1oYwL.html
18-05-2020||India||Smiling Buddha: All about Pokhran test that made India a nuclear power||India is observing the 46th anniversary of its first nuclear test in Rajasthan’s Pokhran on Monday. The peaceful nuclear test was codenamed the ‘Smiling Buddha’ and conducted on May 18, 1974. It made India a nuclear power.The test was named ‘Smiling Buddha’ because it was conducted on Budda Purnima that year, and the message conveyed by Raja Ramanna, the director of India’s premier nuclear research institute Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC), to Prime Minister Indira Gandhi also said, “The Budda has finally smiled.”It was the first confirmed nuclear test by a nation that was not a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council.Though the yield of the device detonated at Pokhran is debated, it is believed that the actual yield was around 8-12 Kilotons of TNT. The highlight of the test was that India had managed to avoid detection by the United States and other intelligence agencies.But India did suffer under the sanctions imposed by industrialised nations like the US which said that such tests can lead to nuclear proliferation. India’s test came six years after the international community concluded the Nuclear non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) in 1968 that divided the world into the nuclear haves and havenots.India undertook its first nuclear journey on September 7, 1972 when the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi authorised scientists at the Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC) to detonate an indigenously designed nuclear device.After the 1974 tests, explosions of five nuclear devices - three on May 11 and two on May 13, 1998 - were conducted by India, again at the Pokhran test range. Codenamed ‘Operation Shakti’, the tests were carried out under former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s term.India conducted Pokhran-II tests, a series of five nuclear explosions, in May 1998 at the Indian Army’s Pokhran Test Range in Rajasthan. National Technology Day is observed every year on May 11 as a reminder of the anniversary of Pokhran-II tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/smiling-buddha-all-you-need-to-know-about-pokhan-test-that-made-india-a-nuclear-power/story-6Gif4ygbQ65BFz2yiaHsMK.html
18-05-2020||India||‘Govt will soon decide on OCI visa issue’: Minister allays fear of card holders||In a bid to allay fears of the OCI card holders over the temporary suspension of their long-term visas, India’s Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan has said the government will soon take an appropriate decision.He also invited members of the Indian diaspora to invest in the country in view of the recent economic reforms announced by the government.Participating in a virtual panel discussion with Indian-Americans on COVID-19, organised jointly by the Federation of Indian Associations (FIA) and the Bihar Jharkhand Association of North America (BAJNA) on Sunday, Muraleedharan was flooded with queries over the OCI (overseas citizen of India) card issue. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi was aware of it and will take an appropriate decision soon.A large number of Indian citizens whose children are OCI card holders and several people of Indian-origin having the card are unable to travel to India, even for emergency reasons, because of the temporary suspension of their long-term visa.“This is step-motherly treatment of people of Indian origin and against the very ethos and spirit behind it,” said Jaipur Foot USA chairman Prem Bhandari.India’s top leadership, including Prime Minister Modi, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Home Minister Amit Shah, are personally aware of it and they have no doubt whatsoever about the Indianness of the overseas Indian community, Muraleedharan said in response to a question.“I understand the agony of the OCI card holders. Please do not have any ill will,” he said, assuring the participants that the prime minister will take appropriate decision on this issue soon. Muraleedharan urged the diaspora to invest in India given the opportunity being offered by the major economic reforms announced by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the wake of the coronavirus crisis. “Perhaps, India has never had such an economic reform. This is a great opportunity for the Indian diaspora to come and invest in India,” he said.The announcements by Sitharaman in the last five days are a clear indication of how and what the Indian diaspora should look for, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-will-soon-decide-on-oci-visa-issue-minister-allays-fear-of-card-holders/story-VoO5bEuqkVYWiAA4hQILpI.html
18-05-2020||India||Politics in times of the pandemic||In the 1996 Lok Sabha elections held in the sweltering heat of April-May, Lalu Prasad was at the peak of his popularity, a crowd-charmer without match in the state he ruled as chief minister. I was on the campaign trail with him. As the chopper in which we flew from Patna circled over Samastipur, Prasad soaked his hand towel with Bisleri water to rinse his face. Seeing his starched, white-kurta drenched in sweat, I asked, “Politics is a lot of hard work; it isn’t an easy call. What keeps you going?” He pointed to the crowds below, gyrating to the chopper’s chuffs, amid clouds of dust: “Ye hai hamara indhan (that’s what fuels me on).”The Rashtriya Janata Dal leader is in jail now in the fodder scam. The vignettes from his past juxtapose starkly with the social distancing norms likely to be in force in November in Bihar during the country’s first post-Covid-19 polls.If the pandemic sustains, Bihar’s poll template may be replicated in the April-May elections next year in West Bengal, Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. A noiseless, crowd-less celebration of democracy’s biggest festival will, if it so pans out, mark a paradigm shift in these provinces with a history of mass agitations and gigantic election-time rallies.The organisational muscle of Tamil Nadu’s Dravidian parties has been nurtured since the late 1940s by such iconic leaders as CN Annadurai, MG Ramachandran, M Karunanidhi and J Jayalalithaa. When marching to their call, their cadres haven’t ever brooked barriers. In contrast, the 1998-born Trinamool is a party much younger and more impetuous, taking after the temperament of its founder, the redoubtable Mamata Banerjee, serving a second term as chief minister in the state she wrested from the then mighty Communist Party of India (Marxist), which in turn, remains in power in Kerala.These parties have a mastery over stirring up street power. Their workers are trained to draw out crowds, not observe protocols for social distancing. They will need a veritable personality transplant to follow the inhibitory rules.“If sent to polls in October-November, Bihar will be the benchmark for other states,” said Dr V Maitreyan of the AIADMK. He foresaw, in the event of the pandemic persisting, transformative changes in campaigning patterns. The elections will be party and leader-centric, rather than candidate centric, given the inevitably greater reliance on the social and electronic media.Maitreyan may well be right. His prognosis? The assembly polls in which local candidates traditionally got higher weightage could acquire the characteristics of parliamentary or presidential form of elections — for the public rallies or street-corner meetings where the voter got to see candidates up close may not be permitted.Conscious of the dynamic situation, the Election Commission is studying various possibilities which include the conduct of campaign and polling as per “health” guidelines, said Election Commissioner Ashok Lavasa. He agreed that contestants might have to devise their campaigns differently if the threat lasted longer. Overwhelmed as they are by the social, clinical and administrative odds on account of the health emergency, politicians in Bihar haven’t yet applied their minds to the November elections. One among them, the Janata Dal (United)’s KC Tyagi succinctly summed up the mood: currently, religion and electoral politics are on the backburner: “Dharm band, rajniti band.”There hasn’t been any substantial stock-taking in the Opposition ranks barring informal suggestions of a video conference, said Sharad Yadav of the RJD. He thought the prospects of timely polls in Bihar would hinge on the Janata Dal (United)-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) coalition’s handling of the return and rehabilitation of natives from other states.From wider conversations this writer had with leaders across party lines, it was evident that they were unsettled the most by the possible political implications of the human cost of Covid-19. “Assembly elections aren’t on anybody’s mind as they’re some distance away,” noted the Trinamool’s Derek O’Brien. From what he said, it seemed the Trinamool regime’s immediate concern was to have in place a mechanism to run the 100-odd civic bodies — that are crucial for fighting the virus and where elections couldn’t be held because of it. In democracies across the world, leaders have been graded, mandated and assigned their places in history on their ability to move the masses — in death and in life. So WhatsApp cannot substitute for what exists on the ground. The hope nevertheless is that Corona too would go the way past pandemics did, returning to us the way we’ve practiced democracy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/politics-in-times-of-the-pandemic/story-Qo8BiJXUPM0IY1KPhSgIVI.html
18-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Buses, autos, cabs likely to resume; Metro shut till May 31 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Buses, autos and cabs likely to resume; Metro shut till May 31The Centre on Sunday said that state governments may allow the operation of public buses, auto-rickshaws and private cabs during the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown till May 31. Read moreAssam to provide work under MGNREGA to all migrant workers coming backThe Assam government on Sunday decided to provide job cards to all migrant workers who returned to the state and give them work under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA). Read moreSupreme Court to take up ex-BSF jawan Tej Bahadur’s plea who questioned Varanasi election resultThe Supreme Court will take up an appeal filed by a sacked constable of the Border Security Force (BSF) who has challenged the election of Prime Minister Narendra Modi from Varanasi Lok Sabha seat held last year. Read moreUK coronavirus death toll rises by 170, lowest increase since MarchThe number of people who have died in the United Kingdom after testing positive for Covid-19 rose by 170 to 34,636, business minister Alok Sharma said on Sunday, the lowest increase in the official death toll since March 24. Read moreThe biggest transition in my career is because of him: Virat Kohli credits former coachVirat Kohli’s stunning physical transformation in 2013 is still talked about. And while the India captain in the past has credited intense workout and diet change for his dramatic turnaround career-wise in terms of fitness, Kohli said India’s former Strength and Conditioning coach Shanker Basu had a defining role to play. Read moreApple reopening 25 more US stores, will soon top 100 worldwideApple Inc will this week reopen more than 25 of its branded stores in the United States, the company said on Sunday, continuing a gradual process that has unlocked doors at nearly a fifth of its worldwide retail outlets. Read moreInternational Museum Day 2020: Where does the term museum come from; a look at some interesting museums from around the worldMuseums, the ultimate storehouses of knowledge, have a long history of being associated with highfalutin culture and intellectual snobbery. Read moreAnushka Sharma calls Virat Kohli ‘jhoota’ during Instagram live with Sunil Chhetri, cricketer fell asleep on her film setsFootball star Sunil Chhetri grilled cricketer Virat Kohli to a crisp in his latest Instagram live. He asked him all about his wife and actor Anushka Sharma.Sunil came armed with the best questions and anecdotes, supplied by Anushka herself. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-buses-autos-cabs-likely-to-resume-metro-shut-till-may-31-and-all-the-latest-news/story-7RdfNuulDiKIf7IRSqUqVM.html
18-05-2020||India||How lockdown 4.0 is different from 3.0 and what remains unchanged||The fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19 began on Monday. In this phase, the central government has further relaxed the curbs and the focus is on restarting the economy.Before issuing guidelines for lockdown 4.0, the government announced a financial paclage worth Rs 20 lakh crore. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman held a series of press briefings to give details of the financial package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week.In fresh guidelines, the home ministry also allowed the resumption of app-based cab services; gave permission to the functioning of all shops, markets and commercial establishments except those in malls; and eased curbs on private offices that were previously allowed to function with 33% staff strength.The two significant steps that stood out were the conditional approval to interstate movement of passenger vehicles and buses with “mutual consent” of the states and the Union Territories (UTs) involved, and the transfer of power to states for defining red, orange and green zones that have been instrumental in the strategy for imposing area-specific curbs in the previous phase of the lockdown.In lockdown 3.0, interstate travel was a banned activity, except in special cases such as the transport of stranded migrants by bus. Here is what has changed from lockdown 3 to lockdown 4:• Division of zones: States/union territories can now define green, orange and red zones while taking into consideration parametres defined by the Union health ministry.• Movement: Interstate movement f passenger vehicles and buses will be allowed after mutual consent by the states involved; states and union territories to decide on intrastate movement.• Shops and markets: All shops except those in malls can re-open but certain conditions will apply. The markets have been asked to follow staggered business hours. The new guidelines state that only five people are allowed inside a shop at a time. They also specify that social distancing measures and frequent sanitisation are a must.• Stadiums: Sports complexes and stadia have been permitted to open, paving the way for competitive sports to resume. However, spectators won’t be allowed.• Aarogya Setu: The mobile application is no longer a must, but people have been advised to use the contact-tracing app. Employers have been asked to put in their best efforts to ensure staff members install it.Other highlights• While private offices were allowed to function with 33 per cent of staff strength, the fresh order does not mention any such restrictions.• No bar on e-commerce players, who can resume delvery of all goods even in red zones.• Ban on cab aggregators has been lifted.What remains unchanged?• Only special trains run by government are allowed.• Only essential services permitted in essential zones.• Night curfew between 7 pm and 7 am will be in place. However, essetial services are exempt from this measure.• People above 65 years of age, children and those with existing health conditions have been advised to stay at home.• Masks to be worn at all public places and offices.• Spitting in public is a punishable offence.Prohibited across country• All passenger flights (international and domestic)• Metro trains• Dine-in restaurants and eateries• Cinema halls, malls, gyms and assembly halls• All religious/political gatherings• Educational institutes||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-lockdown-4-0-is-different-from-3-0-and-what-remains-unchanged/story-4BcPv9zvqYZzi6KWE4RyNO.html
18-05-2020||India||How does India’s Covid-19 package compare to spending by other countries?||Union finance minister Nirmal Sitharaman on Sunday announced the last tranche of the government’s five-part policy reform and fiscal incentive package worth Rs 20,97,053 crore.Nirmala Sitharaman’s announcement is part of a slew of measures announced by the government for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), agriculture, migrant workers, defence, businesses, and other segments.  This followed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement of a Rs 20 lakh crore package, worth about 10% of the gross domestic product or GDP, for the economy to overcome the distress caused by the coronavirus pandemic and the lockdown as well as to build an Atmanirbhar Bharat or “self-reliant India”.The government has provided Rs 11,02,650 crore stimulus in the five tranches, Sitharaman said. Earlier, stimulus worth Rs 9,94,403 crore was infused in the system through fiscal and policy measures that included Rs 1.70 lakh crore relief package on May 26 and Rs 8,01,603 crore monetary measures by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) since March 27.In terms of spending as a share of GDP, 6.4% or Rs 12,95,450 crore has been committed to food security, direct cash transfer, money for rural job guarantee scheme, and credit guarantee to MSMEs among others.The government has announced a policy rate cut and other measures to boost liquidity at 3.9% of GDP or Rs 8,01,603 crore in terms of monetary and micro-financial assistance.Here is how India’s measures in terms of fiscal aid and monetary and macro policy assistance compare with some other key nations:United StatesThe US has announced 2.3% of its GDP in Paycheck Protection Program and Healthcare Enhancement Act. The Paycheck Protection Program was established by the US Congress in late March and aimed at helping businesses keep making payroll for eight weeks, despite orders to shut down because of the coronavirus pandemic. The eight-week period may be applied to any time frame from mid-February up to June 30.It has committed 11% of its GDP in CARES Act. US lawmakers agreed on the passage of a $2 trillion stimulus bill called the CARES (Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security) Act in March to blunt the impact of an economic downturn set in motion by the coronavirus pandemic. President Donald Trump signed the bill into law on March 27.The US announced another 1% in the Families First Coronavirus Response Act (FFCRA), which was created to expand paid leave options for employees effective from April 2 through December 31, and supplemental budgetary allocation made thereafter.The Federal Reserve also slashed the interest rate at the discount window — the rate at which banks borrow money directly from the Fed — by 150 basis points to just 0.25% in March “to help meet demands for credit from households and businesses.” The US also gave facilities to ensure the flow of credit.ChinaChina announced 2.5% of its GDP in terms of fiscal measures and of which 1.2% of GDP measures are already being implemented. It also has additional measures such as the announcement of local bonds worth 1.3% of GDP.It has put 3.2% of GDP in liquidity infusion and 1.7% of GDP in re-lending and rediscounting facilities.The People’s Bank of China has announced rate cuts in the range of 10-150 bps.JapanJapan is on top of the list of countries’ spending and has announced an emergency economic package of 21.1% of GDP. In this, 16% aimed at protecting employment and business.There has been a host of measures including liquidity provision by an increase in size and frequency of Japanese government bonds and concessional loan facilities for small businesses.GermanyGermany has committed 10.7% of its GDP to fight the coronavirus pandemic induced sluggishness in the economy with a supplementary budget of 4.9% of GDP focusing on providing short-term work and preserve jobs. It is using government guarantees to increase credit volume by at least 23% of GDP.The state government packages over and above this.In terms of monetary and macro-financial, there are additional asset purchases and an extension of European Central Bank (ECB) norms, which include prohibiting banks from paying dividends for FY 2019 and 2020 and/or buying back shares.Germany has also said that conserved capital is to be used to support households, small businesses and other borrowers. The payment moratorium on consumer loans established before March 15 is granted until June 30.(Source minister of finance and International Monetary Fund policy tracker last updated May 15)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-does-india-s-covid-19-package-compare-to-spending-by-other-countries/story-tM8KHsVSE98iBvMdQN3JgI.html
18-05-2020||India||Rules eased as lockdown 4.0 begins, Centre announces final tranche of stimulus: Covid-19 news today||The government announced on Sunday new guidelines with considerable relaxations for the fourth phase of the lockdown, allowing conditional interstate travel, the opening of markets as well as the resumption of autos and app-based cab operators. The Centre also allowed states to define their red, orange and green zones. Earlier in the day, the Centre announced the fifth and final tranche of a Rs 20,97,053-crore stimulus package, approving a substantial hike in states’ borrowing limit while also allocating Rs 40,000 crore for the rural job scheme, among other steps.States to fix zones in lockdown 4.0The government on Sunday lifted several stringent curbs, including that on interstate travel and some local transport such as buses, and announced that state governments will grade zones based on the prevalence of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, while it also extended the nationwide lockdown imposed in March-end to stop the spread of the contagion till May 31. Read moreStates, Union Territories to demarcate zonesThe Centre transferred powers to states and Union Territories to demarcate red, orange, and green zones for carrying out Covid-19 containment activities from Monday, according to a letter by home secretary Ajay Bhalla to chief secretaries of all states. Read moreNREGA outlay, cap on state borrowing hiked in fifth roundConcluding the government’s five-part policy reform and fiscal incentive package worth a total of Rs 20,97,053 crore, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday announced a 66% jump in the allocated budget for the flagship rural job guarantee scheme; a substantial hike in the borrowing limit for states; a new plan that aims to end the monopoly of public sector enterprises (PSEs) and open up sectors for private participation; and substantial ease of compliance for businesses, including relaxations in the insolvency and bankruptcy framework. Read moreWill farmers get a better deal after recent reforms?The government has announced major agricultural policy changes as part of the economic package it has unveiled in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. These include deregulation of farm foods from the Essential Commodities Act (ECA). Read moreEconomic package will have multiplier effect, says FM Nirmala SitharamanOver five days, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced the specific contours of a Rs 20 lakh crore economic package to help the Indian economy overcome the immediate crisis caused by the pandemic and the lockdown imposed to control its spread, as well as lay the foundations for a “self-reliant India”. Read moreEye on China, India backs 62-nation coalition’s push for probe into Covid-19 originIndia has backed calls to identify how the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19 was transmitted from animals to humans and conduct an ‘impartial’ evaluation of the World Health Organisation’s response to the pandemic, according to a draft resolution proposed for the WHO’s annual meet beginning tomorrow. Read moreLong wait and hope mark rail journeys of migrants to homeIn 2001, Chinak Pherai Nishad left home. A resident of Gidhaura village of Siddhartha Nagar district of Uttar Pradesh, the 20-year-old aced his school and college examinations but found no well-paying job in the sparse economy of the Gangetic heartland. Read moreProtest by migrants stokes traffic chaos after UP govt seals bordersThe Yogi Adityanath government’s decision to seal the state’s borders took hundreds of migrant workers at the Uttar Pradesh heading home by surprise, leading to chaos at many points. Read more550 districts in India have Covid-19 cases; many in rural areasEven as India relaxed restrictions for the next phase of the lockdown, two separate, but related, data points point to a new challenge in India’s battle against the coronavirus pandemic. On May 17, 550 of India’s 736 districts had Covid-19 positives cases, an addition of around 180 districts in the last fortnight, according to data on the disease compiled from different states. Read moreGovt guideline on opening stadiums raises IPL hopesIndian sports received a boost on Sunday after the Centre allowed stadiums to function in its directives for lockdown 4.0, opening a window for the postponed Indian Premier League to be held later in the year. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rules-eased-as-lockdown-4-0-begins-centre-announces-final-tranche-of-stimulus-covid-19-news-today/story-3lIJOgYM6OOkiy7DZvKfxH.html
18-05-2020||India||Assam to provide work under MGNREGA to all migrant workers coming back||The Assam government on Sunday decided to provide job cards to all migrant workers who returned to the state and give them work under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA).The decision was taken at a meeting held by Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal to discuss the issues of providing employment opportunities to the state’s people returning from outside.“Chief Minister directed to allot job cards to returning migrant workers and provide works under MGNREGA at the earliest. He also asked the skill development department to take steps for imparting training to returning workers for upgrading their skills,” said a government release.Sonowal issued instruction to identify skills of the returning labourers and provide training at development block level through a digital platform.“He instructed the finance department to discuss with banks about ways to provide bank loans to returning labourers for engaging them in productive sectors,” the release added.There is no exact figure on how many workers belonging to the state would be returning back to Assam. Nearly 6 lakh people staying outside the state had registered to avail financial assistance provided by the state. It is estimated that at least one-third of them could return back.The chief minister also directed the industries department to prepare a district-wise list of MSMEs for providing benefits to the sector under the Rs 20 lakh crore financial package announced by the Centre.He said that there are 1.01 lakh micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) in the state, and asked the department concerned to initiate all measures for passing on the benefits announced by the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-to-provide-work-under-mgnrega-to-all-migrant-workers-coming-back/story-ghq5ml9eaGnifBwQ6r5HAJ.html
18-05-2020||India||Supreme Court to take up ex-BSF jawan Tej Bahadur’s plea who questioned Varanasi election result||The Supreme Court will take up an appeal filed by a sacked constable of the Border Security Force (BSF) who has challenged the election of Prime Minister Narendra Modi from Varanasi Lok Sabha seat held last year.Tej Bahadur had objected to the rejection of his nomination as Samajwadi Party’s official candidate from Varanasi. On this ground, he sought PM Modi’s election to be set aside. The Allahabad High Court dismissed his plea at the threshold by a detailed order on December 6, 2019. It held that Tej Bahadur was neither a candidate nor an elector to question Varanasi election result. The appeal in the top court challenges the correctness of this decision.Interestingly, the apex court received this appeal in February this year. The case suffered many procedural flaws. It took three months to prepare the case for hearing. And now, Bahadur’s lawyers will face a bench of Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, Justices AS Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy through video-conferencing.Bahadur’s nomination paper was rejected by the Returning Officer on May 1, 2019. He had earlier filed nomination as an independent candidate from Varanasi but subsequently entered nominated as Samajwadi Party candidate.He admitted in his nomination form that the BSF, where he was employed, had terminated his services. This happened in April 2017 after his video exposing cheap quality of food provided to soldiers went viral. The Returning Officer wished to know if the ground for termination was corruption or disloyalty to the state. If so, such candidates attract a five-year bar on contesting elections.Tej Bahadur claimed his dismissal was on other grounds. The Returning Officer followed the rulebook and required a certificate from the Election Commission in this regard. His failure to produce this certificate led to rejection of his nomination. The matter even came up to the Supreme Court which refused to interfere with this decision.Before the high court, PM Modi made an appearance through his lawyers. He told the court that the petitioner lacked locus to file the petition. Section 81 of the Representation of Peoples Act provides that a challenge to an election can be made either by a candidate or an elector of that constituency.PM Modi’s lawyers argued that Tej Bahadur failed on both counts as his nomination stood rejected by the Returning Officer. He was not a registered voter of Varanasi either. In his petition he admitted to be an elector from Bhiwani, Mahendragarh Parliamentary Constituency in Haryana.The high court concluded that the petitioner was neither an elector nor a candidate and went on to dismiss the petition as not maintainable. On merits too, Tej Bahadur failed to succeed. His non-submission of certificate from the Election Commission went against him. The high court held, “When a candidate is dismissed from government service within five years of filing of the nomination, he is under obligation to file certificate from the Election Commission that his dismissal was not on ground of disloyalty or corruption, failing which, he will be presumed to be not duly nominated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-take-up-ex-bsf-jawan-tej-bahadur-s-plea-who-questioned-varanasi-election-result/story-ATdMRKSyn7VzULw1LHvtOK.html
18-05-2020||India||We spread news, not Covid-19||“Newspapers carry tremendous credibility and the local page of a region is widely read by people,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said before the lockdown began on March 25; the Union Home Ministry guidelines include media in the list of essential services permitted to operate during the lockdown. However, at a time when the world is grappling with the spread of the infectious Covid-19 disease, it is not hard to understand why concerns persist around the delivery of newspapers. Yet, these are unscientific and misplaced.Experts are clear that there is no evidence that newspapers can transmit the virus. George Lomonossoff, a professor at the John Innes Centre, told BBC, “Newspapers are sterile because of the way they are printed and the process they have been through.” “If this was happening, we would have said so to stop the infection,” Dr Sujeet K Singh, director of the National Centre for Disease Control said. Newspapers are vital in spreading correct information, starting with this graphic below.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-spread-news-not-covid-19/story-pymnCt55sM80wSQ2ZhQPQN.html
18-05-2020||India||Lockdown 4.0 begins with more relaxations: All you need to know||The fourth phase of the natiowide lockdown begins from Monday. The Centre issued a notification in this regard on Sunday, extending the curbs for two more weeks, will May 31. But, as Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said in his address to the nation, lockdown 4.0 is going to be different from the previous three phases.The home ministry accordingly issued guidelines for the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown, giving power to states and union territories to delineate red, green and orange zones as per the Covid-19 situation taking into consideration the parametres shared by the union health ministry.In fresh guidelines, the home ministry also allowed the resumption of app-based cab services; gave permission to the functioning of all shops, markets and commercial establishments except those in malls; and eased curbs on private offices that were previously allowed to function with 33% staff strength.Watch | Lockdown 4.0 | Barbers, cabs, live sports, malls: What’s allowed, what isn’tHere are the things you need to know about lockdown 4.0:• All metro rail services, schools, colleges, hotels, restaurants will continue to remain shut.• Marketplaces can open but cinema halls, shopping malls, gymnasiums, swimming pools will remain closed. But sport complexes and stadiums will be permitted to open. Spectators will not be allowed.• Inter-state movement of passenger vehicles and buses with mutual consent of states and union territories involved.• Intra-state movement of passenger vehicles and buses as decided by the states and union territories.• The zones - red, green, orange - containment zones and buffer zones will be decided by the states on the basis of parametres of ministry of health.• In containment zones, only essential activities shall be allowed.• All other activities will be permitted in green, orange and red zones except those specifically prohibited.• E-commerce activities for non-essential goods are now permitted even in red zones.• Clause for private companies to make it mandatory for employees to use ‘Aarogya Setu’ app has been removed• Large gatherings including religious, cultural, sports, political, will not be permitted.• All religious places/places of worship will remain closed to the public. Religious congregations are strictly prohibited.• People over 65 years of age, people with co-morbidity, pregnant women and children below 10 years of age to stay at home, except for essential and health purposes.All the activities that were permitted during the third phase of lockdown will continue to be allowed in the fourth phase as well, however, states have been given a lot of freedom to add restrictions in any area. It is important to note that above activities will not be allowed in containment zones. In containment zones, the central government guidelines only permit essential services. Here’s the list of guidelines to follow this phase of lockdown: • Wearing face cover is mandatory in all public places.• Spitting in public and work places will be punishable with fine as per the rules and regulations of local authorities, states or union territories.• Social distancing in public places including markets, workplaces, public transport and ceremonies like marriages etc.• Not more than 50 guests allowed for marriage functions.• Funerals and last rites shall not be attended by more than 20 people.• Consumption of liquor, gutka, pan masala, tobacco not allowed in public places.• Shops to ensure minimum 6 feet distance among customers and not allow more than 5 people at a time inside the shop.• Provision for thermal scanning, hand wash and sanitisers to be made at all entry and exit points and common areas.• Making or circulating a false alarm or warning to as to disaster or its severity or magnitude, leading to panic, shall on conviction, be punishable with imprisonment up to one year or with fine.• Obstruction to any officer or employee of the central government or the state government or any authorised personnel is punishable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-4-0-begins-with-more-relaxations-all-you-need-to-know/story-ojvCjSthtOiGbXWS2KnpOK.html
18-05-2020||India||Amphan likely to turn into ‘super cyclone’, says govt; will hit Bengal coast||The Ministry of Home Affairs on Monday said that cyclonic storm ‘Amphan’ is likely to intensify into a ‘super cyclone’ by Monday evening. It said that Amphan will hit West Bengal and Bangladesh coasts as a ‘very severe cyclone’ with wind speed up to 185 km per hour on Wednesday. Union Home Minister Amit Shah said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair a high-level meeting to discuss the cyclone situation with the Ministry of Home Affairs and the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) on Monday at 4 pm.To review the arising cyclone situation in various parts of the country, PM @narendramodi ji will chair a high level meeting with MHA & NDMA, today at 4pm.Very severe cyclonic storm ‘Amphan’, over central parts of South Bay of Bengal, intensified into extremely severe cyclonic storm, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday. The weather department had warned that ‘Amphan’ may turn into a “super cyclonic storm’. According to experts, North Odisha coast will face the maximum impact of cyclone Amphan when it makes landfall. According to the IMD, cyclone Amphan will cross West Bengal - Bangladesh coasts between Digha (WB) and Hatiya island - in the afternoon/evening of May 20 as very severe cyclonic storm.North Odisha coast will face max impact of #AMPHAN, when it makes landfall. Wind speed expected to be 110-120 kmph,gusting upto 130 kmph. Balasore, Bhadrak, Jajpur, Mayurbhanj dist can be affected on 20 May(when it makes landfall): Umashankar Das,Scientist,IMD Bhubaneswar #Odisha pic.twitter.com/N3sQ7ut2DJEarlier, the IMD had warned that ‘Amphan’, over central parts of South Bay of Bengal, will intensify into an extremely severe cyclonic storm on Monday. It will move towards north-northeast direction and cross Digha (West Bengal)-Hathiya island (Bangladesh) on the afternoon/evening of 20th May with a wind speed of 155-165 kmph: Mrutyunjaya Mohapatra, IMD director general #Delhi https://t.co/ABmwHK4Dy1“Very Severe Cyclonic Storm (VSCS) ‘AMPHAN’ over central parts of South Bay of Bengal near latitude 12.5°N and longitude 86.4°E, about 870 km nearly south of Paradip (Odisha). To intensify further into an Extremely Severe Cyclonic Storm (ESCS) in the next six hours,” the IMD said in a tweet on Monday. National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has sent its 10 teams to Odisha and seven teams to West Bengal in view of the approaching Cyclone Amphan. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-to-intensify-into-extremely-severe-storm-in-next-6-hours-says-imd/story-tkECS1kZxm18IoXgrlvS5I.html
18-05-2020||India||Allowing firms to list overseas may help raise funds||The government’s policy intent to allow Indian companies to list overseas without simultaneous India listing can open up avenues for tech and other companies to raise funds but would be a non-starter without the necessary regulatory clarifications, legal experts said.Historically, due to the existing legal framework, Indian entities have used offshore routes like Mauritius to list on overseas exchanges like NASDAQ and NYSE by creating parent companies or subsidiaries in such tax-friendly jurisdictions.Apart from that, Indian entities are also allowed access to foreign capital through the American Depository Receipts (ADR) or Global Depository Receipts (GDR) route.“While tech firms would be the key beneficiaries, some others with significant US exposure, in terms of customers or employees such as IT services, healthcare, or global business models in commodities, chemicals could look at foreign listings,” said Anuj Kapoor, managing director and head of investment banking at UBS India.The cabinet approved this proposal in March. The idea’s genesis is a Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) panel recommendation from December 2018. The panel had suggested listing Indian companies abroad would require simultaneous easing of provisions of taxation and Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA), among others.FEMA regulations need to be tweaked to allow issuance of shares to persons resident outside India and receipt and retention of amounts received in foreign currency accounts overseas.Further, tax laws both relating to capital gains arising on transfer of equity shares and also the rules relating to valuation of shares require changes.“The announcement so far looks to be more of policy intent till the time the associated regulatory amendments and clarifications are not announced in areas including FEMA regulations and tax laws,” said Sai Venkateshwaran, partner and head, CFO Advisory, KPMG in India.Kapoor of UBS also said the government and regulators will need to do substantial work on fine-tuning the ecosystem.The other big hurdle is lack of a fully convertible rupee. The RBI has allowed foreign exchange-settled rupee derivatives trading only at the International Financial Services Centre at Gift City in Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allowing-firms-to-list-overseas-may-help-raise-funds/story-Kn7S943863xoHdYCOt0DlL.html
18-05-2020||India||Himachal Pradesh extends Covid-19 lockdown till May 31||Curfew will continue in Himachal Pradesh till May 31, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Sunday after the Centre decided to extend the ongoing lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic.  The state government had imposed the curfew on March 24. In a video statement, Thakur said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had decided to extend the lockdown beyond May 17 after talking to chief ministers of various states. The fourth phase of the lockdown will continue till May 31, the chief minister said. Noting that coronavirus cases had increased after the return of stranded people from other states, the chief minister said that the number of cases may rise further as about 60,000 more people had expressed their wish to come back to Himachal Pradesh. At the same time, he said ‘“there is no need to worry”.  “Himachal Pradesh is still better than other states,” he said and urged the returnees to follow quarantine norms whether they were being kept in any institution or at home.  He said the curfew will remain imposed till May 31 to check the spread of coronavirus.     Thakur said “the nation is fighting the COVID-19 pandemic under the able leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi” and thanked the PM for announcing a Rs 20-lakh-crore package for the revival of economy.    Stating that two ‘corona warriors’ also tested positive for COVID-19 in Kangra a few days ago, he wished them speedy recovery. Himachal Pradesh has reported 81 coronavirus cases and three deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-pradesh-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-may-31/story-hKacFs0wbksBjfR7SVjmGN.html
18-05-2020||India||States, Union Territories to demarcate zones||The Centre transferred powers to states and Union Territories to demarcate red, orange, and green zones for carrying out Covid-19 containment activities from Monday, according to a letter by home secretary Ajay Bhalla to chief secretaries of all states. “Under the new guidelines effective from 18th May 2020, states and UTs will now categorise red, orange, and green zones taking into consideration the revised guidelines issued by the ministry of health and family welfare,” the letter stated.The revised guidelines issued by Union health secretary Preeti Sudan said that districts, municipal corporations or even sub-divisions, wards or any other administrative unit may be categorised as red, orange or green zone after analysis. The decision has to be taken after analysing the geographical spread of cases, contacts and their zone of influence in terms of disease spread.So far, districts as a whole were categorised as red, orange, or green zones by the Union health ministry.To demarcate the zones, the local government will have to keep in mind the total active number of cases, active cases per 100,000 population, doubling rate over seven days period, case fatality rate, number of tests per lakh population, and sample positivity rate.According to the revised guidelines, a total active case count of over 200 will be considered critical and zero or no cases reported in the last 21 days is desirable. More than 15 active cases per 100,000 population will be considered critical.A doubling rate of less than 14 days will be considered critical and that of more than 28 days is desirable. The case fatality rate of more than 6% will be considered critical for the analysis with less than 1% being desirable. Less than 65 tests per lakh population is critical and more than 200 is desirable. A sample positivity rate of more than 6% will be considered critical and less than 2% will be considered desirable, according to the revised guidelines.Within these red, orange and green zones, containment and buffer zones will have to be identified for stringent action such as door-to-door surveillance, contact tracing, and strict enforcement of social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-union-territories-to-demarcate-zones/story-SzfqtgEiidA8IfeA59rDQL.html
18-05-2020||India||Odisha likely to evacuate 11 lakh people once Cyclone Amphan re-curves||The Odisha government will decide on evacuating people from low-lying areas in 12 districts including 6 coastal ones when the re-curve process of very severe cyclonic storm Amphan begins on Sunday late evening, officials said.Special Relief Commissioner Pradeep Jena said the government is waiting for the latest forecast of the India Meteorological Department on the re-curve of the very severe cyclonic storm on the basis of which the government will fine-tune the vulnerability mapping.IMD regional director HR Biswas said the very severe cyclonic storm Amphan is likely to intensify further into an extremely severe cyclonic storm during the next 24 hours and move nearly northwards slowly during the next 12 hours and then re-curve north-northeastwards and move fast across the northwest Bay of Bengal and cross West Bengal-Bangladesh coasts between Digha in Bengal and Hatiya Islands of Bangladesh on May 20 evening. The cyclone now lies over the central parts of South Bay of Bengal, about 960 km south of Paradip and 1,110 km south-southwest of Digha.Jena said of the 12 districts that would be affected, 4 coastal districts of Balasore, Bhadrak, Jagatsinghpur and Kendrapara are particularly vulnerable to Cyclone Amphan as they are close to the Cone of Uncertainty of the storm.The Cone of Uncertainty of the cyclone is designed to convey uncertainty in the forecast of the storm’s centre not necessarily the areas that will experience the impact. The cone, however, does not take the size of the storm into account.Jena said the state has planned possible evacuation of 11 lakh people to 542 unused cyclone shelters and 1,072 additional buildings in 12 districts. He said of the total 809 cyclone shelters in 12 districts, 242 are now being used as quarantine centres.“But unlike previous cyclones where the evacuees were kept herded together in cyclone shelters, this time social distancing norms will be ensured as per the Covid-19 guidelines. This is for the first time that the state government is dealing with a pandemic and a natural disaster. As we have given more priority to Covid-19, we will need more buildings to be used as cyclone shelters,” he said.The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has already sent 10 teams to Odisha and 7 teams to West Bengal to tackle the cyclone.The impending cyclone has forced the Railways to divert the route for its Bhubaneswar-New Delhi-Bhubaneswar AC Special trains running from Bhubaneswar between May 19 and 22. The trains will now travel via Bhubaneswar-Angul-Sambalpur City-Jharsuguda-Rourkela-Tata route, bypassing the Bhadrak-Balasore-Hijli route.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-likely-to-evacuate-11-lakh-people-once-cyclone-amphan-re-curves/story-NjBaaZafZ5sdOfx5ikvOGK.html
18-05-2020||India||States to fix zones in lockdown 4.0||The government on Sunday lifted several stringent curbs, including that on interstate travel and some local transport such as buses, and announced that state governments will grade zones based on the prevalence of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, while it also extended the nationwide lockdown imposed in March-end to stop the spread of the contagion till May 31.In fresh guidelines, the home ministry also allowed the resumption of app-based cab services; gave permission to the functioning of all shops, markets and commercial establishments except those in malls; and eased curbs on private offices that were previously allowed to function with 33% staff strength. Stadiums and sports complexes were allowed to open for the first time since March 25 — when the lockdown was first imposed — but spectators will not be permitted inside.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe two significant steps that stood out were the conditional approval to interstate movement of passenger vehicles and buses with “mutual consent” of the states and the Union Territories (UTs) involved, and the transfer of power to states for defining red, orange and green zones that have been instrumental in the strategy for imposing area-specific curbs in the previous phase of the lockdown.The Centre also allowed states and UTs to decide on the movement of passenger vehicles within their territories, and lifted the ban on cab aggregators such as Ola and Uber even in areas with relatively higher cases.In lockdown 3.0, interstate travel was a banned activity, except in special cases such as the transport of stranded migrants by bus. Also, it was the Centre that came out with two lists — on April 15 and on May 1 — identifying red zones (with maximum Covid-19 cases), orange zones (with fewer infections) and green zones (Covid-19-free areas), though several states expressed dismay over the process.Also Read: Govt eases Aarogya Setu app requirements“Under the new guidelines, States and Union Territories (UTs) will now delineate Red, Green and Orange zones taking into consideration the parameters shared by the Health Ministry,” a press statement by the government said. These zones can be a district, or a municipal corporation, or even smaller administrative units such as sub-divisions.The government’s statement added that within red and orange zones, “containment and buffer zones will be as demarcated by the local authorities, after taking into consideration the Health Ministry guidelines”. No relaxations spelt out in the federal guidelines will be applicable to these areas, which will have strict perimeter control and where only essential services will be allowed.Also Read: Economic package will have multiplier effect: Nirmala SitharamanA containment zone can broadly be defined as the epicentre of an infection, while buffer zones are areas adjoining the containment zone where new cases are more likely to appear.In the fresh guidelines, the government also advised people to use the contact-tracing Aarogya Setu app, and said employers should put in their “best effort” to ensure staff members install it. Earlier, the app was a must for people working in private and public sectors. Metro train services; domestic and international passenger flights; schools and colleges; hospitality services; cinema halls; shopping malls and dine-in restaurants; and religious and political gatherings will continue to be prohibited across the country. Only special trains — a pair of 15 premium trains and those ferrying migrants to their homes — will run in this period.Also Read: Govt nod for interstate travel but flights, trains, Metros still haltedAlso, the ban on non-essential travel between 7pm and 7am will continue. Spitting and consumption of liquor, gutkha and tobacco in public places continue to be banned.“All other activities will be permitted, except those which are specifically prohibited,” the guidelines for the fourth phase of lockdown said. “Further, States/UTs, based on their assessment of the situation, may prohibit certain other activities in the various zones...,” the order said, indicating relaxations could largely be dependent on state-specific rules.The opening of marketplaces, albeit in a staggered manner, is expected to help put economic activities, stalled by the unprecedented lockdown, back on track to some extent. Another major decision in that direction was the decision to lift curbs on establishments and factories that were restricted to work with just one-third of their staff from office. However, firms were advised to allow their employees work from home to the extent possible. The guidelines reiterated that wearing of mask was mandatory in public places and offices.States and UTs were asked to make sure that the movement of cargo trucks or medical personnel was not hindered.The nationwide lockdown, the first phase imposed on March 25 for 21 days, has been extended thrice. The second and the third phases of the curbs – starting April 15 and May 4 — lasted 19 days and 14 days, respectively. On March 25, India had 657 Covid-19 cases, which have increased to 95,656 infections as of Sunday. After the central guidelines were issued, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote to all states, asking them to ensure strict compliance of the lockdown rules.Officials across states held emergency meetings, and many of them said they will come up with their own guidelines by Monday. Amir Subhani, Bihar’s additional chief secretary of the home department, said the state will adhere to the home ministry order.Uttar Pradesh chief secretary RK Tiwari said, “...We will release Uttar Pradesh-specific guidelines after studying the Centre’s guidelines.”While Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and West Bengal were likely to announce their guidelines on Monday, Punjab, too, will hold a key meeting to take a call on the rules dictating the terms for lockdown 4.0.Meghalaya and Nagaland announced that the existing restrictions will continue for the next round as well.“In Meghalaya, keeping in mind the inflow of Meghalaya citizens from different parts of the country, we have decided to maintain the current restrictions and no further relaxation are planned as of now. If (there are) any changes, it will be notified accordingly,” Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma tweeted.(With inputs from states)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-to-fix-zones-in-lockdown-4-0/story-fcFuDgympolFWuTNSgmzSI.html
18-05-2020||India||Lockdown 4.0: Rajasthan to run free Shramik Special buses, says CM Ashok Gehlot||The Rajasthan government will be running Shramik Special buses for migrants heading home on foot through national highways.Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has said that it is very painful for the workers and their families to walk hundreds of kilometers to return home. “The state government will run special Shramik buses to relieve them from this pain. These buses will be free-of-cost to transport workers after obtaining consent from the states,” he said.The CM continued that this is a poignant and challenging task for the nation and should be resolved early. The Central Government should allow expenditure on buses under the SDRF category, he said.Reviewing a meeting related to lockdown 4.0 at his residence, he said the migrant workers will be sent through Shramik Special buses to those places where the number of passengers aren’t adequate for a train.He appealed to other states that they should also run such buses to send migrant workers of Rajasthan back to their homes.Gehlot said that in the fourth phase of the lockdown, states have been allowed to run buses for the movement of migrants and workers with mutual consent. In such a situation, the Rajasthan government will take the initiative to ensure that the workers reach their homes without any trouble.“According to the guidelines of the Centre, it has been decided to extend the lockdown in the state till May 31. The detailed guidelines for this will be released on May 18,” he said.The Chief Minister directed the officials to form a separate team for intensive monitoring of the coronavirus infection, which would provide thorough feedback on its spread and other aspects. Based on this, the state government will formulate its strategy.He said that a large number of migrants from other states have reached villages. Special attention should be given in rural areas as there may be a risk of the infection spreading in such areas, the chief minister cautioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-4-0-rajasthan-to-run-free-shramik-special-buses-says-cm-ashok-gehlot/story-TapVSQjAP3g3GRUzkMk3bK.html
18-05-2020||India||Call of duty takes nurses from Kerala to West Asia||Suja Verghese, a nurse working in Saudi Arabia for the last 10 years, had come home to Kottayam on a five-month leave in March to complete a list of pending work. But it was not to be. The hospital called requesting her to join work immediately. And on Saturday, she was among 239 medics who took a special flight to Saudi Arabia from Cochin.Earlier on Thursday another flight carrying 219 medical professionals, mainly nurses, had left for Saudi Arabia. Last week 89 health workers flew to the United Arab Emirates. Three more such flights carrying nurses are expected this week.Many Gulf countries who are desperate have cancelled leaves of medical workers and some of experienced who had left their jobs were called back.“It is fact the nurses from Kerala are most sought after all over the world. Like Prime Minister Modi said we should convert crises into opportunities. There is a great demand for trained nurses these days, especially from the Gulf. If they are willing the country should allow them to go,” said a senior government official involved in facilitating the return of medical workers.“This initiative reflects the relationship between India and the Middle East countries and their commitment to support each other in time of crisis. It is our duty to provide best medical professionals during the Covid crisis,” said Dr. Azad Moopen, managing director of Aster DM Healthcare that sent 60 of their trained nurses to the UAE last week.According to the Nurses Council of India among 20 lakh registered nurses at least 15 lakh are from Kerala. “At least two lakh of our nurses are abroad. Other than the Gulf, they are also in the US, Europe, Australia and other countries. Nurses from Kerala are most sought after. It is one of the least paid jobs in the country which is why so many leave for greener pastures,” said United Nurses Association general secretary Sujanapal Achuththan. Besides being service-oriented, nurses from Kerala like to take challenges head on, he said.“In health and hospitality the state has a glorious history. Nurses are ready to go to any place if service calls. In 2014 the country had saved 46 nurses from the Islamic State-held areas in Iraq. It was only then that people realised that Kerala’s nurses were serving in hostile areas also,” he said.Nurses may be frontline warriors in the fight against Covid-19 but they say their cries are often not heard. Like the case of nurses in Israel. At least 82 stranded nurses in Israel, some of them in advanced stage of pregnancy, are set to fly back next week after their plight came to light during a phone-in programme conducted by a Malayalam news channel Asianet. Some of them had broken down during the programme.“Service is in our blood. Kerala’s social background has helped us to imbibe true spirit. Monetary part apart, we love to take challenges and duty comes first to us. If the Gulf needs more health workers we should despatch the willing ones,” said Marina Jose, one of the nurses who was evacuated from war-torn Iraq.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/call-of-duty-takes-nurses-from-kerala-to-west-asia/story-5PMVOClX2RT3Tuf7j8MWQM.html
18-05-2020||India||550 districts in India have Covid-19 cases; many in rural areas||Even as India relaxed restrictions for the next phase of the lockdown, two separate, but related, data points point to a new challenge in India’s battle against the coronavirus pandemic. On May 17, 550 of India’s 736 districts had Covid-19 positives cases, an addition of around 180 districts in the last fortnight, according to data on the disease compiled from different states. Among the states, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh witnessed the maximum increase in number of districts affected by Covid -19 since May 1.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicWhat explains the spike, and what explains the spike in these states? Government officials largely attribute the increase to the return of hundreds of thousands of migrant workers to rural areas in these states, with weak health infrastructure. Since May 1, when the Central government started special Shramik trains, migrant workers — facing an acute shortage of cash and food — have returned home, even as thousands of others continue to walk hundreds of kilometres to return to their villages. As of Saturday, rural districts accounted for only 21% of total number of cases in India, according to health ministry reported — but the numbers are increasing. Officials said in many of the rural districts, Covid-19 cases are in single digits and the infected persons have been isolated in quarantine centers. The exceptions were districts such as Ganjam in Odisha, which has 292 cases, and Munger in Bihar, which reported 195 cases.Also Read: NREGA outlay, cap on state borrowing hiked in fifth roundHowever, state government officials are worried that many of the migrants, who have returned, are asymptomatic and may infect many more persons. Also, so far, only a fraction of workers have returned.“Only about 20% of the workers have returned and all the districts in my state are infected with Covid-19,” said a senior bureaucrat in Bihar, familiar with the thinking in the government. “Imagine the scene when even half of the workers come back. Keeping all of them in quarantine centers would be a daunting task,” he said. A Jharkhand government official said about 80,000 of the 6.5 lakh registered with the state helpline have returned. In Odisha, 1,10,000 of the seven lakh migrant workers registered have returned, officials said.All 36 districts in Bihar; two-third of 30 districts in Odisha; 80% of 55 districts in Madhya Pradesh; more than half of Jharkhand’s 24, Rajasthan’s 33 and one-third of Chhattisgarh’s 28 districts already have Covid-19 patients.Also Read: AAP says Centre responsible for plight of migrants, BJP hits backThere have been several incidents of migrant workers jumping from quarantine centers in Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and West Bengal, though most of them were brought back. Workers in Bihar and Odisha have complained of poor quality food and facilities in the government run quarantine centers, a charge denied by the local authorities.Most of the Covid-19 free districts in these states are the remote tribal and poorest districts of India, where not enough tests have been done.“As ICMR has said that only symptomatic persons should be tested, we have not tested many people from some of the tribal districts from where no persons have reported Covid symptoms,” said a Jharkhand government official, who was not willing to be named.Officials in Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha said that there was no possibility of easing of lockdown norms from May 18 because a large number of migrant workers are expected to return in the next fortnight. “We are not going to ease the norms for the time-being,” said Sanjay Kumar, Bihar principal secretary (health).Apart from states receiving large number of migrant workers, Covid-19 has also spread to new districts in Tamil Nadu, Haryana and Karnataka. In Tamil Nadu, all 38 districts and Haryana, all 22 districts have cases. In Tamil Nadu, the Koyambedu vegetable market in Chennai was said to have contributed to 30% of over 10,000 cases in the state. In Haryana, the return of locals from red zones in Delhi and nearby areas was said to be the reason for the spread of the infection. In Karnataka, 23 of the 30 districts have Covid-19 cases. On Saturday, the Centre asked officials from 30 municipal areas spread across 12 states, which contribute 79% of India’s Covid-19 cases, to maintain high vigil and closely monitor areas of old cities, slums, migrant labourer camps and other high-density pockets.These areas are in Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh. Maharashtra. The selected municipal areas are Brihanmumbai or Greater Mumbai, Greater Chennai, Ahmedabad, Thane, Delhi, Indore, Pune, Kolkata, Jaipur, Nashik, Jodhpur, Agra, Tiruvallur, Aurangabad, Cuddalore, Greater Hyderabad, Surat, Chengalpattu, Ariyalur, Howrah, Kurnool, Bhopal, Amritsar, Villupuram, Vadodara, Udaipur, Palghar, Berhampur, Solapur and Meerut.The health ministry said that these areas should have the maximum restrictions under the home ministry’s lockdown 4.0 ground rules, the health ministry has told the government.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/550-districts-in-india-have-covid-19-cases-many-in-rural-areas/story-EEfW0NI82J4D2CuI0m2TKJ.html
18-05-2020||India||Will farmers get a better deal after recent reforms?||The government has announced major agricultural policy changes as part of the economic package it has unveiled in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. These include deregulation of farm foods from the Essential Commodities Act (ECA). Farmers have also been allowed to sell their produce outside government-regulated markets, or Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs). The move has been celebrated by important voices. The crux of such arguments is twofold. One, laws such as ECA are irrelevant now because we are no longer a food-scarce economy. And two, it will allow farmers greater freedom in selling their produce. This is expected to guarantee better prices. Both these arguments have problems. India has moved from a food-scarce economy to a net exporter of food. However, food production does not guarantee food security. Affordability is what matters. In the early years of economic reforms, India thought affordability will not be a problem. A universal Public Distribution System (PDS) was diluted into a targeted programme. This was reversed to enact the National Food Security Act (NFSA) in 2013. The NFSA covers two-thirds of the population as beneficiaries. It was passed by a Congress-led government and continues to be implemented by the Narendra Modi government. This bipartisanship is driven more by realpolitik than ideology. It is a recognition of the fact that a large part of our population still cannot afford food from the free market. In case of cereals such as rice and wheat, the government directly procures and then provides subsidised food. For other important crops, it uses a mix of policies including price and export controls and, sometimes, even usurping marketing activities when prices rise. Any blanket deregulation of agricultural markets requires an end to these policy interventions. In normal times, this will go unnoticed. But what happens when prices rise? Will a government cite its commitment to reforms and refuse to intervene when onions sell for more than Rs 100/Kg like they were a few months ago? That, in a price- sensitive political economy, will have adverse political and electoral consequences.A story in The Indian Express cites NITI Aayog’s Ramesh Chand to suggest that the latest deregulation will be rolled back in times of a price hike. “Such price increases will have to be at least 100% year-on-year at an all-India average retail level for vegetables (onion and potato) and 50% in the case of non-perishables (grains, oilseeds, etc)”, he said. The Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy’s database gives monthly all-India retail prices for essential commodities since 2010. Inflation in potato, onion and tomato prices breached the 100% threshold 21 times between January 2011 and April 2020. For non-perishables including 15 items of cereals, pulses, edible oil and sugar, inflation breached the 50% barrier 48 times during this period. So, the government would have had to revoke this reform 69 times in the past 120 months, according to this suggestion. This cannot be the basis for sustainable reform. Let’s look at the question of farmers not being allowed to sell to buyers of their choice. The claims of Indian farmers being caught in the clutches of a single buyer in the form of APMCs is not supported by data. The National Sample Survey Office released a report on Key Indicators of Situation of Agricultural Households in India. It is based on a survey between January-December 2013. It gives a break-up of farmers reporting sales to different buyers. For 31 crops sold between July 2012 and June 2013, local private traders were the single biggest buyers for 29 crops. Mandis, not all of which would be APMCs, were the biggest buyers in just two crops; arhar in the kharif season and gram in the rabi season. Except in soybean, the share of farmers selling their crops to Mandis did not even exceed 25% for any crop. These figures tell us the true picture of India’s agricultural markets. The private sector has already surged ahead of the APMCs without any reforms. And the farmer is well aware of this change. Does this mean that farmers will get better prices? Not necessarily. The number of buyers is not the only determinant of pricing power. Bargaining power also matters. This is where Indian farmers face their biggest handicap. Abolition of APMCs could make way for bigger corporate penetration in India’s food markets. But this does not guarantee that farmers will get a better deal. While such corporate players could be competitors at the macro level, thanks to their deeper pockets, they might be even bigger and stronger monopsonists at the local level. This makes the worst possible outcome entirely possible. The farmers might be left on their own to deal with perhaps a bigger monopsonist than they were faced with when the prices are low. And, when they do go up, the government will bring back controls in the name of food security.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-farmers-get-a-better-deal-after-recent-reforms/story-8wrOzXKTL7J94cuInodOmK.html
18-05-2020||India||Protest by migrants stokes trafficchaos after UP govt seals borders||The Yogi Adityanath government’s decision to seal the state’s borders took hundreds of migrant workers at the Uttar Pradesh heading home by surprise, leading to chaos at many points.After the deaths of 26 migrant workers in a road accident in Auraiya district on Saturday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had ordered not allowing any migrant worker travelling in trucks, cycles or on foot to enter the state. Instead, the government ordered they be provided buses and trains for their home journey. However, these took time to be arranged.In the mean time, in the 13 UP districts that shares borders with Delhi, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana chaos reigned. District and police officers struggled to convince the irate people that arrangements were being made to take them home. The migrant workers had made long and arduous journey to reach this far. They also became restive as many were close to their destinations. “We travelled over 1,000 kms with little to eat and drink in this scorching heat and now when our homes are barely hundred kilometers away, we are being told we can’t move ahead,” one said.In Saharanpur, over 3,000 migrant workers who arrived from Punjab and Haryana came out on roads and created ruckus over the delay in arranging transport for their onward journey. Police used mild force to quell them, and to pacify them, announcements were made that buses and trains were being arranged.Senior superintendent of police (SSP), Saharanpur, Dinesh Kumar P said trouble erupted after rumours among the migrants at Radha Swami Satsang Ashram on Ambala Road that they would be held there for two to three months. Police informed them that 1,320 migrants were already sent on a train, and that buses were being arranged for the rest. “The situation is now under control,” he said.In Jhansi, police were seen asking migrant workers on trucks at the border to deboard. But the unconvinced workers shouted slogans against the state government and police. “There was chaos due to confusion among migrants that we were not allowing their entry, but when they were told that the administration was arranging buses for their safe journey, the matter was sorted out. They were taken to a nearby shelter and later boarded buses to their destinations,” said SP City Jhansi Rahul Srivastava. At Agra and Mathura border, migrants entering the state from Rajasthan’s Bharatpur and Dholpur were agitated over the interruption. A group set fire to a garbage dump. The situation was controlled when Mathura administration officials arranged buses.Similarly, long queues of trucks and trolleys ferrying migrants, apart from some on bicycles, were seen in other bordering districts like Gautambuddh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr, Baghpat, Shamli, Lalitpur and Mahoba. Chaos was also reported from some non-bordering districts like Lucknow, Kanpur, Unnao, and Fatehpur.Director general of police (DGP) H C Awasthy said there was an unprecedented turn out of migrants. He, however, said that the situation was defused in a few hours after they were convinced of buses and trains for their safe onward journey. He said the aim of sealing the borders was to ensure safety of migrants and not to interrupt their movement. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said trains from Jhansi, Mahoba, Agra, Mathura, Noida, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Saharanpur and Prayagraj were likely to start from Sunday. He said the UP state road transport corporation deployed 10,000 buses and districts magistrates had been told to hire private buses. The state had requested the Railways to operate trains between Kanpur- Varanasi via Prayagraj, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protest-by-migrants-stokes-trafficchaos-after-up-govt-seals-borders/story-JxlYQ0QO5hmzGTayIwc0XI.html
18-05-2020||India||Ex-bureaucrats write to govt, say Central Vista project ‘hasty’||In a letter to the central government, 60 former bureaucrats and diplomats, including former secretaries, have expressed “grave concerns about the Central Vista Redevelopment Project” and urged the government to see the “fallacy of the project and issue notifications to keep the work from going ahead”. According to the letter, at a time when the government needs to step up its efforts to help boost the economy due to the coronavirus pandemic, spending Rs 20,000 crore on the Central Vista project is like “Nero fiddling while Rome burns”. “When enormous funds are required for strengthening the public health system, to provide sustenance to people and to rebuild the economy, taking up a proposal to redesign the entire Central Vista at a cost of at least Rs 20,000 crore, a figure likely to escalate significantly, seems particularly irresponsible,” states the letter. The signatories to the letter include Vappala Balachandran, IPS (Retd), former Special Secretary, Cabinet Secretariat, Meena Gupta and Tishyarakshit Chatterjee, former secretaries, Ministry of Environment and Forests, Aruna Roy, former IAS officer, and Harsh Mander, former IAS officer and social activist. Addressed to housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Puri, the bureaucrats have reminded the government that the Central Vista is a heritage site and “construction and redesign on the scale planned in the redevelopment project will significantly affect the heritage nature of this precinct, and destroy it irrevocably”. “The redevelopment planned will, moreover cause severe environmental damage,” states the letter, a copy of which was accessed by Hindustan Times. A query sent to the ministry over the letter remained unanswered till the time of going to press.“It is sad to note that approvals of empowered supervisory bodies like the Environmental Assessment Committee of the Ministry of Environment and the Central Vista Committee have been pushed through in great haste at meetings convened at short notice while the country is in lockdown due to the Covid-19 epidemic, and despite the absence of private members who expressed their inability to attend and advised waiting till the nation returned to normalcy. The clearances are being given despite the matters being sub judice. These bodies have, unfortunately, been reduced to mere rubber stamps with notes of dissent not even recorded,” the letter states. According to the letter, the tenders issued for the project were “hastily drafted” and “rushed through in record time” to select an architectural firm in an “extremely flawed process”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ex-bureaucrats-write-to-govt-say-central-vista-project-hasty/story-N1IjFm9tMir9CdyZiOWuCM.html
18-05-2020||India||Kerala student’s suicide puts focus on dubious ‘conversion therapy’||The suicide of a 21-year-old queer woman from Kerala, who claimed that she had been taken to multiple de-addiction centres over three months against her will, in an effort to cure her of her non-heterosexual orientation, has drawn attention to the dubious practice of conversion therapy practised by mental health professionals in the country, experts have said.The body of the Kannur University-affiliated college student was found in Goa earlier last week. She had visited the state with three friends on March 21, but got stuck there on account of the lockdown that was imposed three days later. Gargi H., a friend of the student, said that she was undergoing treatment for depression before her family took her to the de-addiction centres.In a Facebook video that the queer woman posted in March, she narrated how she was put on heavy medication at the centres without her consent. The student had come out to her family as a bisexual woman recently. “The post mortem report has confirmed that (the student) died as a result of the hanging and no foul play is suspected,” Police Inspector of the Calangute police station, Nolasco Raposo, said.Deepa Vasudevan, co-founder of Kerala-based Sahayatrika, an organization that works with lesbian/bisexual women and transmen said, “Parents of queer or trans people often send them to psychiatrists or psychologists to “cure” them of their sexual orientation or gender identity, to make them “normal.” We have seen this practice in many of our crisis interventions.”As per the Mental Healthcare Act 2017, which came into effect in July 2018, an adult person cannot be treated for any mental health condition without their express consent, or that of a nominated representative in case they either lack the capacity to make decisions or pose a danger to themselves and others. A representative can only be nominated by the person requiring treatment.Conversion therapy — which is considered unacceptable practice in psychiatric disciplines today — has historically used medication, and other practices like Electroconvulsive Therapy and chemical castration to cure persons of their homosexuality.According to psychiatrist Dr Soumitra Pathare, “While no provision outlaws conversion therapy, it is a clear violation of the Act.” According to Pathare, who was one of the architects of the Act, the law — predicated on the consent of the person undergoing treatment, as well as an insistence that mental healthcare practitioners should only follow treatments which are approved in the field of their profession — can be interpreted as being clearly against conversion therapy.What’s more, in 2018, the Indian Psychiatric Society released a statement that homosexuality is not a psychiatric disorder. This was in line with the position of the American Psychiatric Association and the International Classification of Diseases of the World Health Organisation, which removed homosexuality from the list of psychiatric disorders in 1973 and 1992, respectively. In 2018, the Supreme Court of India also struck down a colonial law that criminalized consensual adult same-sex intercourse.However, according to Raj Mariwala, director of Mariwala Health Initiative, which focuses on making mental health accessible to marginalized persons and communities, psychiatric disciplines have a history of violence against members of the LGBTQI communities. Conversion therapy, like past practices of lobotomy, admission in asylums and ECT, is part of that violence and has never really died down.“Psy-disciplines and practices classify things as normal and abnormal. If you start with pathologising something like homosexuality as abnormal, it leads us to the place where treatment is required,” Mariwala said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-student-s-suicide-puts-focus-on-dubious-conversion-therapy/story-fmgMhK8nFVUuddV97xvDXN.html
18-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan likely to intensify, hit Bengal soon||Severe cyclonic storm Amphan that has been hovering over the Bay of Bengal intensified to what is classified as a “very severe cyclonic storm” on Sunday, according to authorities monitoring the situation.The storm was about 960km south of Paradip in Odisha and 1,110km southwest of Digha in West Bengal on Sunday evening. It is expected to further intensify into an “extremely severe cyclonic storm” on Monday. Over the subsequent 12 hours, it will move northwards slowly before recurving north-northeastwards and cross the West Bengal and Bangladesh coasts on May 20 afternoon.Authorities and local people are staring at a unique situation where evacuation has to be quick and effective in the face of a deadly storm but at the same time social distancing has to be practised and first-line responders protected. Amphan will be a test case of how to handle natural disasters during a pandemic. As the monsoon is set to advance, more exigencies are expected to arise out of urban flooding, landslides and more cyclones—this would mean the need for more rescue shelters and sanitary facilities in them.When Amphan develops into an “extremely severe cyclonic storm”, the wind speed is expected to be 170-180kmph gusting to touch even 200kmph. The last “extremely severe cyclonic storm” was Fani over the Bay of Bengal which reached its peak intensity on May 3 and mostly impacted the state of Odisha.The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) has shared an advisory with all cyclone-prone states on disaster preparedness during Covid-19. “We have underlined that first-line responders like police, state disaster response force, all volunteers engaged in relief work will have to be provided with PPE kits along with N95 masks. Cyclone-prone states like Odisha have a lot of multi-purpose cyclone shelters. But now we can use them to only one-third capacity because social distancing needs to be maintained. So, states have been asked to identify new shelters and buildings,” said Pavan Kumar Singh, joint advisor, NDMA.“Ministry of Home Affairs holds an annual relief commissioners’ meeting which is scheduled this year for May 20 via video conferencing when more details on monsoon-related disaster preparedness will be discussed,” he added.“We will announce the location of landfall and pinpoint where evacuation will be needed when we gain more confidence on the exact location. This is because evacuation and relief measures will have to be taken with great precaution keeping in mind the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Our models are showing that coastal Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal will be impacted. There will be more impact in West Bengal because the very severe cyclonic storm is expected to cross the Sundarban area,” said Sunita Devi, IMD scientist incharge of cyclones.“Though the cyclone will intensify into an extremely severe cyclonic storm, it may make landfall as a very severe cyclonic storm. There is time to take decisions on where evacuation will be needed. We are tracking the cyclone closely. I am aware that preparatory measures are being taken both in West Bengal and Odisha,” said M Mohapatra, director general of IMD (India Meteorological Department).West Bengal has three coastal districts – East Midnapore, North 24 Paragans and South 24 Parganas. Authorities have come up with detailed micro-level plans keeping in mind the Covid-19 pandemic and the migrant labourers who are returning and need to be kept in quarantine to prevent any outbreak of the virus. The experience of cyclone Bulbul, which had hit the area in November 2019, have also come in handy in preparing these plans. “At Sagar Island there are 18 multi-purpose cyclone and flood shelters (two to three-storey buildings where both humans and cattle can be kept during disasters). Seven of these cyclone shelters would be used exclusively as quarantine centres, particularly for the migrant labourers who are returning from other states. We are also increasing the number of shelters by roping in school and college buildings so that there is no crowding in one building,” said a senior official of Sagar block.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-likely-to-intensify-hit-bengal-soon/story-nwfhMMbOhrJ2cDSdy2B2fN.html
18-05-2020||India||Govt nod for interstate travel but flights, trains, Metros still halted||Lifting the prohibition on interstate movement of cars and buses after nearly two months, the Centre on Sunday said their movement will now be allowed, as it eased restrictions for the next phase of the lockdown. However, all domestic and international passenger flights, regular passenger trains and Metro services will remain suspended till May 31.The home ministry, in its guidelines for Lockdown 4.0, added that the interstate movement of vehicles will be allowed with the mutual consent of the states and union territories concerned. The interstate movement of all vehicles, except those transporting essential services and goods, had been suspended since March 25 when the lockdown was first imposed. “The interstate movement of vehicles and buses has been allowed with the mutual consent of the States/ UTs concerned,” the guidelines said. Also Read: Centre’s relaxations set to awaken Delhi from its two-month slumberA standard operating procedure (SOP) for bus operations may also be issued by the Centre, a senior official of the home ministry said. Cycle rickshaws, auto-rickshaws, taxis and cab aggregators such as Ola and Uber can also begin to operate, provided the states concerned permit them to do so. The Centre has also put the onus on states to decide the various activities to be allowed across red, orange and green zones. However, strict perimeter control has to be maintained, and no movement of persons can be allowed across containment zones, except for medical emergencies and to maintain the supply of essential goods and services, the order clarified.While the prohibition on air travel continues, there will be exemptions for air transport for domestic medical services, domestic air ambulances, security purposes or purposes as permitted by the home ministry and cargo transport. The director-general of civil aviation (DGCA) also said that foreign and domestic airlines will be “suitably informed about the opening of their operations, whether international to/from India or domestic respectively in due course”.Also Read: Buses, autos and cabs likely to resume; Metro shut till May 31National carrier Air India on Sunday also reiterated that flight bookings for domestic travel will resume only after proper instructions from the Union government. “Keeping in mind the prevailing situation due to Covid-19, it is informed that all domestic scheduled flights stand cancelled till 31st May 2020 excepting the flights operating as Charter and Evacuation Flights [sic],” it said in an internal communication.The railways ministry also clarified there will be no change in railway services from that of the third lockdown. “There is no change in rail service. It will be the same as in Lockdown 3.0, only Shramik Special trains and special passenger trains will continue to run apart from goods and parcel trains,” a ministry official said.The movement of passengers in trains had been permitted earlier by the MHA through an order dated May 11, allowing 15 premium trains to resume operations. The Centre had also said that bookings made for regular trains before and during the lockdown for journeys till June 30 stood cancelled and affected passengers will receive full refunds.Till Sunday, 348,634 passengers had booked tickets worth Rs 69.33 crore for the premium trains, according to the railways ministry.Also Read: Economic package will have multiplier effect: Nirmala Sitharaman“In order to facilitate the movement of persons, various modes of transport have already been opened up. Further, the evacuation of foreign nationals from India, the return of stranded Indian nationals from abroad, the sign-on and sign-off of Indian seafarers, and the intra- and interstate movement of stranded persons by bus and train will continue to be allowed,” the home ministry said. India has launched a concerted repatriation programme, by sea and air, to bring back stranded citizens stuck in various parts of the world, but with a strict set of preconditions to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “More than 13,000 stranded Indians have returned on various flights under the Vande Bharat mission,” union civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri tweeted. Airports had begun preparing for the resumption of services following the government’s nod. The Airports Authority of India has also issued guidelines for the resumption of flights in a “graded manner” asking passengers to wear a mask and other protective gear and maintain at least four-feet physical distance from co-passengers. Puri has confirmed airport operations are likely to open only in a graded manner with nearly 25-30% of its capacity initially. They will be scaled up to their original level in a gradual manner, according to the government’s plan. According to officials in the know, SOPs for the resumption of the Metro rail have also been prepared by the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-nod-for-interstate-travel-but-flights-trains-metros-still-halted/story-EA3beSFTCBQsRqEv2di8kL.html
18-05-2020||India||Funding boost for public health sector; grassroots institutions in focus||The government will increase investments in public health and focus on grass-root health institutions, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced on Sunday.The government has also decided to create a dedicated block for infectious diseases at hospitals in all districts while boosting surveillance by focusing on strengthening lab networks, according to Sitharaman. To that effect, the government will set up public health labs in villages. Focus will also be on ramping up health and wellness centres in villages and urban areas.“The government will be increasing investments in public health to be absolutely ready for such (Covid-19-like) eventualities in future,” Sitharaman said. In the budget for 2020-21, the government earmarked over Rs 67,484 crore for the health sector out of the total outlay of Rs 30,42,230 crore.A health ministry official who did not want to be named said strengthening of government lab networks in villages will help robust surveillance. The step aims at quick identification of disease clusters in case of future outbreaks and effective containment measures at an early stage. “Increasing testing capacity is the key to manage better any outbreak situation that hinges on ‘test, isolate and treat’ guidelines. This will be a big plus for the public health system,” the official said.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will contribute towards building a national platform for health-related research under one umbrella. Also, implementation of a national digital health blueprint will be expedited to make better use of technology in delivering health care services in the country, Saitharaman announced.The health ministry has already released at least Rs 4,113 crore directly for activities to deal with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The Centre has allocated Rs 15,000 crore in the health care sector to fight pandemics. Another significant step was providing an insurance cover of ₹50 lakh per person for health professionals under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojna announced on April 23.With focus on telemedicine, the government has rolled out e-Sanjeevani Tele-Consultation Services and is building capacity by e-training modules for health care and other workers. “We have also taken great care in protecting our health care workers by increasing the domestic manufacturing industry for personal protection equipment and N-95 masks. We have identified some 300 domestic manufacturers who from zero kits to now are capable of producing 3lakh kits in a day,” Sitharaman said. Experts welcomed the government’s decision.“The announcements regarding Rs 15,000 crore allocated for Covid 19 containment and treatment...is a much needed support… Leveraging of IT services for tele-consultation will help patients with non-Covid-19 issues who were left stranded due to cessation of all non-emergency health services,” Charu Sehgal, partner and leader, Lifesciences and Healthcare, Deloitte India, said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/funding-boost-for-public-health-sector-grassroots-institutions-in-focus/story-qzDjXwU35rigIMbfJH910N.html
18-05-2020||India||Economic package will have multiplier effect, says FM Nirmala Sitharaman||Over five days, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced the specific contours of a Rs 20 lakh crore economic package to help the Indian economy overcome the immediate crisis caused by the pandemic and the lockdown imposed to control its spread, as well as lay the foundations for a “self-reliant India”.Shortly after her announcement on Sunday, the finance minister, in a wide-ranging interview to R Sukumar and Shishir Gupta spoke about the rationale behind the measures; emphasised that credit to both businesses and individuals will help provide relief and spur demand; countered the criticism that the package did not have a strong enough fiscal component; acknowledged the crisis faced by migrant workers; and her hopes for the Indian economy in 2021. Edited excerpts:Also Read: ‘Focus on where money is going’, says Nirmala SitharamanNow that the entire package has been announced, what is the status of the budget numbers?One thing we took cognizance of even before we announced the package and that is the borrowing [the government enhanced its borrowing limit for this year by Rs 4.2 lakh crore]. That is why we issued a fresh schedule of borrowing. But the rest of it, I have to wait and see. Because revenue generation and disinvestment – it’s too early for me to make an assessment now. This is only May; we have 10 more months to go in the year, and what an extraordinary year it is already.Have you modelled any revenue estimates?In this Covid era, does any modelling help?Also Read: In lockdown 4.0, Centre allows offices, factories to open with staggered timingsHow about the funding? You have told us about the borrowing; will that be enough to meet any revenue shortfall? Or will you need to borrow even more?We took a comprehensive assessment (of what we would need) and then went with this number (Rs 20,97,053 crore). At the time itself we were conscious that we were looking at this stimulus and also a fall in revenue. We have to see how it goes.If there is a significant shortfall in revenue, which seems very likely now, what happens to the share of the states?The collection is divided between the Centre and the states; that’s the formula. If the collection itself falls, the formula will only give what it can give. Then the GST compensation, the GST based division that happens. I’m committed to give the compensation from the collection that I have. Over and above, if there is a shortfall, the GST Council will have to take a call.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicWhat is the kind of fiscal deficit India is looking at this year?It’s too early to comment; I’ll be able to say closer to RE (the time the revised estimates come out).One of the criticisms of the package is the overemphasis on monetary and liquidity components in the package you have announced and that the fiscal cost is just 10-15%It’s amazing that comparisons are made with what other countries have given. At this time, I would request everyone to focus on where the money is going. I think it is important to reach out to those sections (of the population) that need relief to even survive. And not just individuals. If additional money doesn’t reach small units, they can’t pay wages; they can’t buy raw material; and run their units to even 10-15% capacity. So I’m making sure that is where the money goes; wait for the multiplier effect it can create in its immediate ecosystem.Even for small enterprises, which you have rightly said are the most vulnerable, what the package has is largely credit. You have steered clear of income protection and wage support. In the UK, for instance, even middle-class salaried employees who have been furloughed are eligible for three months of payments up to 2500 pounds a month. Why have you not thought of that? Do you think the lower middle class and middle class doesn’t need that support?Is there any section about whom I can say that they don’t need it? Is it my business to even judge? Everyone needs help in this kind of environment – but to different degrees. But what amazes me is that the moment we compare, we compare with advanced economies, which also have the advantage of good data, which also have the advantage of a system that delivers. Now the system that delivers, after Narendra Modi became PM in 2014 created DBT – and so I can deliver cash; I can deliver gas cylinders; I can deliver fertilizer subsidy to farmers.But do I have other data? Did anyone, before this crisis, have data on migrant workers? Has there been any political party or analyst or economist or public thinkers – did anyone know the size of the migrant labour population? In a way, I’m thankful that we are now discussing this in depth. Like we should. Whoever thought that it would take a pandemic like this to tell us that even migrant workers need to be registered? When we talked of wanting to give some insurance to such migrants – when we wanted to do this, the data on such workers from the states… Did anyone give us exhaustive data?When we compare with others, when they have systems to deliver, which we have today, when they have data about workers, both organised and unorganised, and then given the size of that economy — I’m very different. So we have to adapt. I have to make sure taxpayers money has to be spent where it actually means something. This doesn’t mean I’m saying giving it to the poor won’t mean anything, but there’s a limitation. How do I identify the poor? I can give it to Jan Dhan account holders, which is what I tried. But many of these migrants don’t even have a ration card. States now have to go through the grind to see how they cover them all — in PDS, in Jan Dhan. In fact it is becoming clear that these visionary steps of PM Modi that are helping us now.A lot of the reforms that have been announced are significant, even radical; but they will play out over the medium-term or long-term. But in the short-term, the two most important things are cash in the hands of people, to help them overcome the immediate crisis, and ways to revive demand. How do you think this can be done?The term loans and the working capital loans that banks have now been asked to give automatically to everybody — unless the customer says they don’t want it, the banks have to give it. Now when money flows to that little unit, he is obviously taking it to give wages or buy raw material. That is spurring demand. So demand doesn’t just get spurred at the individual level — people getting money and going out and buying bread and milk and other things. It is also companies, however small, getting that extra loan, so that they can open up after the lockdown. Spurring demand can also happen at the institutional level.We are also giving, through NABARD, additional money for small and marginal farmers. That money is going for the pre-kharif (monsoon crop) preparation. Post-rabi (winter crop) harvest, they are feeling the need for money – this will take care of that also. Isn’t that money in the hands of people? I want people to go through every one of the announcements to realise how many of them mean more money in hand — and money in hand will spur demand.Also Read: NREGA outlay, cap on state borrowing hiked in fifth roundThere are some sectors such as aviation, tourism, hospitality, entertainment, where even if you give them money in hand, even a year later, these companies are going to be struggling because there is no demand.They will come under one or the other schemes we have brought in — with the banks (credit). So, nobody is going to be left untouched. But touched the way you want? I may not have done that. But they will have access to resources. And this is after a lot of discussion with banks. Their hesitation to lend is because they are worried that the money won’t come back; what if a business turns genuinely bad? What if a genuine (lending) decision ends up meeting a mala fide intention of the borrower? In order to egg the banks to give more, we have come up with a guarantee.Did a potential downgrade by credit rating agencies hold your hand when it came to more fiscal stimulus, or did you decide to just focus on doing what was needed? We did discuss the rating agencies. But all of us agreed that India wasn’t singly or uniquely facing this problem. It is a global problem. Rating agencies rate you if you alone are not doing well in a world that is otherwise rosy. With a global pandemic, with every economy being affected….Ratings can’t be done in isolation. I’ve thought about it, and it doesn’t worry me. Look at the strengths of India: we are less affected; our foreign exchange reserves and macroeconomy are strong; we have had a six-year tenure of PM Modi who has handled the economy responsibly; our debt to GDP ratio has come down. Why would the rating agencies treat us badly? Rabi (the winter harvest), we have had a wonderful crop; and to the credit of the states, they have managed to get the harvest done, the procurement almost done.A lot of the reforms that have been announced in these packages will need executive orders, notifications. Can we expect them in the next few days?Yes. And some will happen through ordinance.You pointed out in the course of the presentation today that the states are not borrowing enough. Why is this? Is it because they are anticipating very poor revenues? Or do they want the Centre to bail them out?I don’t know. They have been writing to the PM, the chief ministers; and the finance ministers have been writing to me. It also came up with the meeting of the PM with the CMs, that they be allowed to borrow more. So we allowed that, but also put out the factual position on their current borrowings [around 14% of what is permissible].When you look at big business, the formal sector, business has been non-existent. And other than credit, there is not much for them. Some of the companies I’ve spoken to were expecting some sort of scheme — a wage protection one like what France has done for instance. In the absence of this, there will be layoffs even in the formal sector.Again, comparing with France is very different. There are limitations to that approach; but we have ensured that every one of these businesses has access to bank credit. Without new or additional collateral, we have said they should be given term loans and working capital loans — only because they have to tide over this crisis, over this particular problem.Also Read: Lockdown 4.0: Delhi traders welcome Centre’s decision to open marketsWhere do you see the Indian economy in March 2021?I am confident that Indian entrepreneurs, like Indian farmers, can weather any storm. I am not saying I will therefore leave them to their lot. No, I will keep facilitating them. But that spirit in them is giving me hope.The PM Garib Kalyan Yojana you announced in March had measures to provide cash and food to the most vulnerable. Do you think that is adequate? I know you have extended the food scheme to migrant workers, but do they need more?I will have to assess it.And if your assessment is that they do?Of course, we are willing to give more. Nothing is closed.How would you sum up the package in one sentence?In fact, that’s why I quoted the Prime Minister. He said the package would focus on land, labour, liquidity and laws — we have done that. At the same time, every sector has been helped. I think this is a reasonably exhaustive package. And it approaches every section — perhaps in our own way, not in a way people wanted us to. There is hope for everyone to be benefit from this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/economic-package-will-have-multiplier-effect-nirmala-sitharaman/story-sqY6cQ7oufUQ6vZgijWNoO.html
18-05-2020||India||Long wait and hope mark rail journeys of migrants to home||In 2001, Chinak Pherai Nishad left home.A resident of Gidhaura village of Siddhartha Nagar district of Uttar Pradesh, the 20-year-old aced his school and college examinations but found no well-paying job in the sparse economy of the Gangetic heartland. With a family of eight to feed and an ageing father, Nishad decided to abandon his dreams and become an agricultural labour.Like millions of young men and women from his state, Nishad found someone from his village working in the fields in Maharashtra’s Thane district and migrated 1,600km west. “I worked as a labourer in Thane along with a person, who belongs to my own village. But soon I realised that this work is not for me,” he said.The next year, he bought a handcart and started a business hawking garments in Mumbai; the first few weeks were tough but in six months, he was earning Rs 600 to 900 a day – almost five times his daily pay as a labourer. “My proud ‘baba’ (father) used to say you are first in the family to start one’s own business,” he said. In 2003, he bought a second handcart. His luck ran out in March this year as fear of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and the nationwide lockdown from March 25 shuttered his trade.Undaunted, Nishad felt he could ride out the 21-day lockdown in the city he had called home for 18 years. For 10 days, he and 18 other migrants who shared a small 10x10-room house in Yadav Nagar, Navi Mumbai neighbourhood had enough food and supplies.But problems began soon after. First, the migrants ran out of food and money. Then, as Covid-19 cases mounted and the government indicated it would extend the lockdown, their neighbours started becoming hostile because the workers were seen as virus carriers. Finally, on April 14, when the lockdown was extended, the migrants decided to hit the road and walk down to UP, almost 1,600km away.None of the workers had any movement passes so they were stopped at a police outpost near Nashik on April 16 after two days and 166km of walking.“We were stuffed in a small room at an unknown place and then were taken to a school where we were quarantined for five days,” he said. On April 20, they were moved into a local hostel where they were locked in for 25 days along with 300 other migrants from UP. “We were moved after locals started treating us like infected animals. In all these days, the food provided to us was minimal but we survived somehow,” he said.On May 1, the government announced special trains to ferry back migrants. Later that day, an official visited the hostel to make a list of workers who would be sent back to UP. “Officers said the migrants who can afford to pay the ticket fare of Rs 420 will be allowed to board the train, the rest have to stay for another month or so,” Nishad said. He didn’t have enough money but was able to beg and borrow the required amount, and got his name on the list. The next morning, a bus came to fetch Nishad and 280 migrants to the station. They were checked before they got on to the bus, and before boarding the train – the first Shramik Special to reach UP.On every berth, only two migrants were allowed to maintain social distancing. “But I don’t think it makes much difference as we all were using the same toilets and washbasins frequently,” he said.Though unemployed and penniless, Nishad felt grateful as the train pulled into Lucknow’s Charbagh station on May 3 – 19 days after he had set out from Mumbai. “I have lost everything but I couldn’t believe that I had finally reached my home,” he said. Nishad is one of 564,000 migrants who have been ferried back home to UP by 450 non-stop shramik special trains, many of them waiting for days after registering their names in lists that often run into tens of thousands of names. Speaking to officials, workers, railway staff and local residents, HT pieces together the arduous journey of a migrant worker from her quarantine centre to a berth on the train and finally back home.The process to get into a Shramik Special is both long and depends on chance.Pravin Kumar, a resident of Basti in Uttar Pradesh, along with 25 other people from a Mumbai-based garment unit applied on April 28 to go back to their home state.In Maharashtra, a group of people wanting to travel to a particular state need to visit the nearest police station and are required to fill a form. The form is then submitted to the district collector.At the time, the Maharashtra government required a mandatory medical certificate declaring the migrant worker is fit to commute and had no symptoms, and Kumar had to procure this document from a local medical practitioner he knew. Last week, this regulation was removed and workers are now screened with digital thermometers before boarding the train.“We were a group of people so decided to approach police authorities in the city for helping us to travel back. They informed us that no trains are leaving from Mumbai but asked us to fill forms,” said Kumar.After they filled the form at the Ghatkopar police station, the police informed the district collector about the number of people who had registered. This number was then collated throughout the city and sent to the chief secretary of the state, said a top government official.In each state, migrant workers need to apply on an online portal for travel passes. A second government official said migrants can approach the local police stations, who along with non government organisations (NGO), assist the workers — many of whom are semi-literate and do not have smart phones — in filling the travel requests forms for the Shramik Special trains.In cities, police commissioners are the nodal officers for this work while in rural areas the collectors have been assigned this responsibility, the second official said.After the forms are filled and the numbers collated, the chief secretary of the originating state then speaks to his counterpart in the destination state for permission of train operation and to cross check the names and address of the labourers.Then, the chief minister of the destination state decides on whether to grant permission to the train, and on which day the train should be allowed to enter the state.“We have put nine officers to coordinate the train movement of migrants with the states of the country and the CM reviews the situation daily. He has directed that medical screening be done, they be taken to quarantine centres, their documentation details should be complete and then they should be sent home with proper respect and bagful of rations for 15 days. In the village, they are supposed to be monitored by the village monitoring committees so that home quarantine should be ensured,” said UP additional chief secretary (ACS), home, Awanish Awasthi.After this decision is taken, a no-objection certificate is granted from the destination state, and a permission is sought from the Union home ministry, after which the train schedule is planned. The entire process can take up as few as two days, according to railway officials in Mumbai.In Kumar’s case, it took 10 days. “I got a call on Friday morning saying that a train will be operated towards Uttar Pradesh and we will be allowed to travel. The feeling of being able to go back to my home and be with my family was amazing,” said Kumar, who boarded the train on May 8 from Mumbai.The Indian Railways comes into the process once the clearances are received from the originating and the destination state.Once the permissions are received, the originating state writes to the Union home ministry and the Railways with the request for a train. “After home ministry’s nod comes, the ministry of railways provides the train and the tickets for the total number of passengers to the state government,” a senior railway ministry official said, requesting anonymity.The originating state has to make the arrangements of buses for taking migrants to the railway station.“We then provide them the tickets for the trains, then we take the migrants inside and go through all the social distancing protocols and screening before boarding them on the trains. The nodal officer/ district magistrate of the state has to make arrangement for the buses. For each train, nearly 70-80 buses are required for ferrying the migrants to the station,” the official quoted above said. A similar process is followed once the train reaches the terminating station of the destination state. The local district magistrate arranges for the buses to take the migrants to their villages and then put them under home-quarantine, the official added. The passengers have to be screened by the originating states and only those found asymptomatic are allowed to travel. The originating state will have to bring these persons in batches that can be accommodated in the train to the designated railway station in sanitised buses following social distancing norms and other precautions, the railway ministry’s guidelines stated.But the process of registration – the first step – can be difficult for many migrants, say experts.“The issue is that most of them do not have smart phones, and most who have not been paid have not had the currency to be able to recharge their phones. The government should ensure a paper-based registration in every ward and town,” said Rajendran Narayanan, an assistant professor at Azim Premji University.Currently, the single-destination Shramik Specials are allowed to carry up to 1,700 people. They have 24 coaches, each with 72 seats. The fare for the train is paid in most cases by the state government. To ensure the safety of their staff, the Railways sends their locomotive pilot on leave after every trip. The loco pilots and Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel are screened before the journey and only asymptomatic crew is allowed on the train.“We adhere to safety norms while operating the Shramik special trains. I piloted the Shramik special train from Lokmanya Tilak Terminus(LTT) to Igatpuri. There are no halts to the train and loco pilots are changed on major stations. I operated the train on May 10 and was given leave for two days. I will resume work on May 13,” said Mukesh Meena, the pilot of Shramik train that operated between LTT and Jaunpur in Uttar Pradesh on May 10. For most migrants, the ordeal ends once they find their names on the passenger list of a special train. But for some, the long wait can be too much to bear.Kanhaiya Lal realised this the hard way. The 29-year-old painter from Bhavnagar in Gujarat was on his way back home to Baijwari village of Sitapur district in Uttar Pradesh. He spoke to his family when boarding the Basti-bound Shramik Express (09491) on May 8, elated that he was going back home. “He sounded very happy, he said he is going home after 6 month, will have home-cooked food first,” a passenger who was sharing a berth with Kanhaiya said.But that was not to be. His lifeless body was removed the moment the train stopped at Charbagh Railway Station at 3.30pm on May 9. Police recovered an empty wallet, a certificate certifying him as Covid-19-negative, a non-branded mobile and an ID card.“Bhai had called me a few days back, was saying he didn’t have anything for the last five days, we insisted he come back home. On Friday he called saying he managed to board the train and is coming home,” said Pramod Kumar, Kanhaiya’s elder brother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/long-wait-and-hope-mark-rail-journeys-of-migrants-to-home/story-ZPAo6FH0QCYhREYim2cbKN.html
18-05-2020||India||Obama tears into US leaders in online commencement speeches||Former President Barack Obama has delivered a searing critique of the US response to Covid-19, telling graduating students in two speeches that “folks in charge” with “fancy titles” appear to be clueless and some “are not even pretending to be in charge”.Obama did not name President Donald Trump, but the speeches were seen as a barely concealed attack on the current administration’s response to the pandemic, which he had earlier denounced as an “absolute chaotic disaster”.His first speech was for the graduating students of Historically Black Colleges and Universities and the second to graduating high-schoolers around the country, both delivered via video link. “This pandemic has fully, finally torn back the curtain on the idea that the folks in charge know what they’re doing,” Obama said in his commencement speech to black colleges students. “A lot of them aren’t even pretending to be in charge.”To graduating high-schoolers, the former president said, “Doing what feels good, what’s convenient, what’s easy, that’s how little kids think. Unfortunately a lot of so-called grownups, including some with fancy titles and important jobs, still think that way, which is why things are so screwed up.”He spoke of economic and social inequalities, school shootings, and the future. “Be alive to one another’s struggles. Stand up for one another’s rights. Leave behind all the old ways of thinking that divide us – sexism, racial prejudice, status, greed – and set the world on a different path.” The US now accounts for nearly a third of all global fatalities and cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/obama-tears-into-us-leaders-in-online-commencement-speeches/story-LWjC2QeBuLZOxKsXrPw1VN.html
18-05-2020||India||In Home Ministry’s sharp U-turn, Aarogya Setu not mandatory to resume office||The Union government’s guidelines for the fourth phase of the nationwide curbs to check the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has eased the requirement for office-goers to mandatorily install the Aarogya Setu mobile application, asking employers instead to ensure “on best effort basis” their staff have the tool.A government official confirmed the rules warranted a rethink on pushing people to use the mobile application, particularly after people began finding workarounds that defeated the purpose of the application.“We want users to feel that they need to download it, and making it mandatory to download was having the opposite effect. There were also some flaws that we were made aware of: in some cases, users kept screenshots of the results of the self-assessment saying they are safe and using it repeatedly; in others, many users deleted the app after downloading it,” said Abhishek Singh, CEO of MyGov and the National e-Governance Division (NeGD).Making Aarogya Setu mandatory was never the government’s plan, he added. The tool has been criticised by independent software researchers for having vulnerabilities and by privacy experts for collecting excess sensitive data that could aid in illegal surveillance. In the guidelines issued by the ministry of home affairs on Sunday evening, the government said: “With a view to ensure safety in offices and work places, employers on best effort basis should ensure that the application is installed by all employees having compatible mobile phones to put in best efforts to ensure that the contact-tracing app is downloaded.”“District authorities have been asked to advise individuals to install the Aarogya Setu application on compatible mobile phones and regularly update their health status on the app. This will facilitate timely provision of medical attention to those individuals who are at risk,” it added. Singh, however, said that states have the liberty to make the app mandatory. “Some states have stricter norms than what the Centre has spelt out. So, if any state wants to download it, it is within the legal framework to do so,” he said. Till now, the app has been downloaded by 105 million smartphone users. The Internet Freedom Foundation said that while the amended guidelines were an improvement, concerns about mass surveillance and data breaches remained unaddressed. “The manner in which the term “best efforts” is interpreted by the government also remains to be seen and it will determine whether the app is still mandatory for all practical purposes. More detailed statement to follow tomorrow,” the IFF said on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-home-ministry-s-sharp-u-turn-aarogya-setu-not-mandatory-to-resume-office/story-R74cgtyOjbqPJ0g13RK9rN.html
18-05-2020||India||‘Transformative impact’: PM Modi praises Sitharaman’s reforms for 7 sectors||Prime minister Narendra Modi has praised the government interventions announced by finance minister Nirmala Sithraman on Sunday while delivering the fifth and final tranche of Rs 20 lakh crore package to revive Indian economy, which is suffering the disastrous impact of the coronavirus pandemic.PM Modi said the announced reforms will have a transformative effect on the country’s health and education sectors.“Measures and reforms announced by the FM today will have a transformative impact on our health and education sectors,” the first part of the prime minister’s tweet said.Sitharaman announced reforms in 7 sectors under the Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan envisaged by the prime minister. Her measures included increased investments in public health along with other reforms to prepare India for future pandemics. She also spoke of measures to encourage technology-driven education with equity after the worst of Coved-19 is over.On the public health front, she announced that expenditure will be increased for investment in grass-root health institutions and for ramping up health and wellness centres in rural and urban areas. She also said that the government will set up infectious diseases hospital blocks in all districts and strengthen lab network and surveillance through Integrated Public Health Labs in all districts & at block level enabling management of pandemics by labs & public health units.She also spoke about government’s plan for implementation of National Digital Health Blueprint under the National Digital Health Mission.In the sphere of technology-driven education, Sitharaman said PM eVIDYA, a programme for multi-mode access to digital or online education will be launched immediately after the worst presented by coronavirus pandemic is over. She also said that another programme named Manodarpan, aimed for psycho-social support to students, teachers and families will also be launched immediately after the country emerges from the throes of Coved-19 virus. She also partly unveiled plans for a new national curriculum and pedagogical framework for school, early childhood and teachers. She also said the government was committed to the launch of National Foundational Literacy and Numeracy Mission by December 2020 to ensure that every child attains learning levels and outcomes in grade 5 by 2025.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesSpeaking of other reform measures announced today, the prime minister said the measures will boost entrepreneurship among other objectives. “They will boost entrepreneurship, help public sector units and revitalise the village economy. Reform trajectories of the states will also get an impetus,” the second part of PM’s tweet said.PM Modi was referring to the announcement made for enhancement of ease of doing business through IBC related measures, decriminalisation of companies act defaults, public sector enterprise policy for a new, self-reliant India and increasing borrowing limits of states from 3% to 5% for the financial year 2020-21 along with helping in state-level reforms.Also Read: ‘A game changer’: Amit Shah praises PM Modi, Nirmala Sitharamam for stimulus packageThe finance minister’s announcements were earlier welcomed by home minister Amit Shah, who said the steps announced by the government will “greatly boost” our rural economy and infrastructure as well as provide employment to crores of poor people and migrant workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/transformative-impact-pm-modi-s-thumps-up-to-sitharaman-s-reforms-for-7-sectors-in-5th-and-final-installment/story-z27c7YBFuRT6sL6Azo2jcK.html
18-05-2020||India||Eye on China, India backs 62-nation coalition’s push for probe into Covid-19 origin||India has backed calls to identify how the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19 was transmitted from animals to humans and conduct an ‘impartial’ evaluation of the World Health Organisation’s response to the pandemic, according to a draft resolution proposed for the WHO’s annual meet beginning tomorrow.New Delhi’s decision to sign off on the push for an inquiry led by the European Union and Australia is the first time that India has formally articulated its stand on the Covid-19 outbreak that was detected in central China’s Wuhan city late last year. The disease has, at last count, killed over 300,000 people worldwide and devastated the global economy.But Prime Minister Modi did indicate New Delhi’s stand at the G20 summit in March where he backed WHO reform and referred to the need for transparency and accountability. Also Watch | How China’s loss can become India’s Covid-19 gain: PMEAC member explainsChina, which has been accused of concealing information about the virus in the early days of the outbreak, had later contested that the deadly Sars-CoV-2 pathogen detected in its territory could have originated just about anywhere. Chinese foreign ministry officials even shared conspiracy theories that accused the US military of starting the coronavirus outbreak.World Health Organisation and its director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, on the other hand, have been blamed for playing along with China till the virus reached enough countries and spread rapidly. Ghebreyesus, a former Ethopian minister, was elected with support from China in 2017. The accusations - he has denied them - also led United States President Donald Trump to suspend funding to the UN global health body.Diplomats in Geneva, where the WHO headquarters is located, told Hindustan Times that the draft resolution - supported by 62 countries including Bangladesh, Canada, Russia, Indonesia, South Africa, Turkey, the United Kingdom and Japan - was an effort to bring about transparency and accountability for the spread of the disease that has been widely-acknowledged to be the worst crisis since the second world war.To be sure, the draft resolution does not mention China or its Wuhan city.It asks the WHO director general to work with the World Organisation for Animal Health to conduct “scientific and collaborative field missions” and “identify the zoonotic source of the virus and the route of introduction to the human population, including the possible role of intermediate hosts”.Also Read: China must come clean on Covid-19| OpinionThe seven-page draft resolution seen by Hindustan Times also proposes to ask the WHO chief to start, “at the earliest appropriate moment”, a stepwise “impartial, independent and comprehensive evaluation” to review experience gained and lessons learned from the WHO-coordinated international health response to Covid-19.This, the document says, should include an evaluation of the effectiveness of the mechanisms at WHO’s disposal and “the actions of WHO and their timelines pertaining to the COVID-19 pandemic”.Also Read: Early Covid lockdown in China could have reduced cases: StudyThe draft also asks countries to provide WHO “timely, accurate and sufficiently detailed public health information related to the COVID-19 pandemic as required by the international health regulations.It is not clear if, and how the draft resolution would be discussed at the virtual meeting since the WHO leadership opted for a truncated agenda, a move that has been seen as an effort to silence its critics.The showdown on Monday, where countries will push for the draft resolution to be taken up, is largely seen to target China which has come under scrutiny over the pandemic that has devastated the global economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-wants-covid-19-origin-probed-seeks-impartial-review-of-who-response/story-nw3ir6VDPywAwLYs5bOVGO.html
18-05-2020||Editorials||Tracing the roots of Sars-CoV-2 | HT Editorial||The Australian draft resolution at the World Health Assembly calling for an investigation into the sources of the virus is necessary, and India has rightly supported it. China’s decision to treat this as an unfriendly act has given the resolution a political hue. It has also drawn attention to China’s absurd refusal to not allow the World Health Organization (WHO) or any international scientific team to study ground zero of the outbreak. Given the destruction the virus has wrought, Beijing could only have improved its battered image by allowing an investigation. The United States, which sees Covid-19 through the prism of great power rivalry, did not join in because China was not directly mentioned. Having a global scientific investigation into the origins of a pandemic should have been a routine affair. That it has now become a geopolitical battleground is a sign that the international health system, particularly WHO, needs reform. Though a United Nations agency, it was unusual in being funded and directed by non-governmental organisations. This is why it proved so inept at navigating global politics or rejecting the unreasonable demands of Beijing. Member-states should lay the ground for a larger debate on how WHO should be overhauled. The world can’t afford another pandemic, and this should be the overriding thought of all countries, including China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/tracing-the-roots-of-sars-cov-2-ht-editorial/story-zpT5oa2jbE6Q4oGWa8ipbI.html
