21-05-2020||News||A Green Trade Organisation is the need of the hour||The initial years of the 21st century witnessed universal economic growth. The fundamentals of globalisation appeared to be getting stronger. The 2008 financial crisis raised a few uncomfortable questions. Critics such as Nobel Laureate Eric Maskin argued that it has benefitted only a select few. As countries, including major economies, faced rising unemployment and inequality, a political class propagated inward-looking policies, rather than expanding the realms of globalisation to shore up the growth prospects.On the other hand, with increasing awareness and instances of natural disasters, many demanded urgency in addressing the climate crisis. There were calls to adopt more “sustainable approach” towards achieving development goals that achieve high economic growth without adversely affecting the prospects for future generations. The Paris Climate Agreement showed that leadership from various countries can collaborate in tackling the effects of the climate crisis. However, like global trade, the climate crisis action agenda also witnessed a breaking down of consensus — such as the withdrawal of the United States (US) from the Paris deal.The coronavirus pandemic has shaken the foundations of the world order. It has taught the global leadership that there is no alternative to mutual coexistence, or in the words of Thomas Freidman, “the world has become even flatter”. Globalisation will undergo a radical redesign. Countries will beef up their home-grown manufacturing capabilities for “products and services of essential nature”, while, at the same time, also try and find substitute locations as a buffer for their existing supply chains.As the world witnessed prolonged lockdowns with minimal human interface and movement, the planet went into an “auto-healing” mode. The post-Covid-19 world offers an invaluable opportunity to bring in greener policies for economic recovery. This also offers us a golden chance to create a greener and more balanced rules-based global trade and commerce.As the World Trade Organization (WTO) celebrates its silver jubilee this year, the Green Trade Organisation (GTO) can act as its most suitable extension. While the WTO activities and rules mention conservation of the environment, there is a definite scope for further concrete action on this front.Under GTO, the rules-based order of WTO can be expanded to assimilate facets of trade and commerce from the climate crisis perspective.One, the “greenability” of production supply chains: The GTO will focus on ensuring that the developing countries, the global south, which are often used in the less productive stages of the supply chain (for procuring raw material and farm produce) are accorded effective protection from anti-climate policies that aim to expand profits at the cost of the planet.Two, Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) on climate crisis mitigation products and services: Over the years, the IPR regime has witnessed a spectacular growth in technology and pharmaceutical sectors. Today, we realise how significant human health is for a nation’s progress. For its equitable access globally, we need to develop a robust IPR framework related to climate crisis solutions being developed across the world.Three, the taxonomy and accounting framework for promoting ecologically balanced production processes: This area has witnessed various effective measures being undertaken — especially in the developed countries — such as the Emission Trading System (ETS) and Carbon Credits framework. However, in many parts of the world, there is still an absence of a credible institutional framework that promotes the use of green accounting and tax-based policies.Four, specialised dispute resolution mechanisms on issues of the climate crisis: As the global trade and services systems become more intricate in a world increasingly vulnerable to the climate crisis, there is a significant increase in international disputes on the climate crisis. It will need a mechanism which creates an enabling legal framework, to help resolve such issues, both at the national and international level.In the past, efforts have been made to set up similar structures within the WTO regime. In July 2014, Canada along with other WTO members such as China, the European Union, Japan and the US launched negotiations for a new WTO plurilateral agreement on environmental goods that sought to eliminate tariffs on a range of environmental goods. However, as governments across the world implement relief packages and create a favourable climate for economic activities, the time is ripe for a “Green Trade Framework” that promotes the use of greener technologies and production systems. The GTO should lead to tremendous positive externalities for the planet such as the decline in the exploitation of natural and man-made resources, especially in the middle- and low-income countries; an improvement in the standard of life with the fall in pollution levels; transparent and accountable protocols and systems to deal with effects of climate change-induced by global trade activities.Over the years, globalisation has helped boost economic growth and reduce extreme poverty. The coronavirus pandemic has made it clear that we need to look beyond short-term solutions. We cannot sideline climate action. But it is to create a sustainable and more inclusive planet by providing citizens with a suitable platform to undertake economic activity in an ecologically responsible manner. The creation of a Green Trade Organization is a step in the right direction.Jayraj Pandya is pursuing a Master’s degrees in Advanced Global Studies at the University of Sciences Po, ParisThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/a-green-trade-organisation-is-the-need-of-the-hour/story-xtvL3XL50gO8zM8M5eQscM.html
21-05-2020||News||India needs a new epidemic control and management law||India’s response to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic has so far been effected predominantly by three different laws – the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 (EDA); the Disaster Management Act, 2005 (DMA); and the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (IPC). After the declaration of the pandemic as a “notified disaster”, the National Executive Committee of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), set up under the DMA, has been imposing the graded lockdowns and issuing periodic guidelines to states for enforcing the lockdowns. Simultaneously, both the central and state governments have fallen back on EDA to address the health aspect of this disaster. However, people violating lockdown orders are being charged under sections 188, 269 and 270 of IPC.The use of such an ad-hoc legal architecture with a multiplicity of statues has resulted in a patchwork response against the epidemic in several areas.The archaic three-page-and-four-section EDA does not define what constitutes a “dangerous epidemic disease”. It confers unbridled power to the executive to respond to the disease by the way of promulgating ordinances or regulations, but without due care to the social and reputational standing of the people affected due to the pandemic.Similarly, DMA, passed as an immediate response to the 2004 tsunami, is largely framed for effective preparation, mitigation and managing a natural or man-made calamity, mishap or a catastrophe such as tsunamis, earthquakes and cyclones. These events are normally geographically-localised catastrophic events, disrupting normal life for a few hours or days, but unlike a public health epidemic, do not last over a long period of time. In contrast to natural disasters, physical evacuation of people from an affected area to a relatively safe zone is not an option during a pandemic due to the likelihood of the spread of the infection.Cognisant of the lack of appropriate epidemic control and management law, in 2017, the Union ministry of health and family welfare prepared a comprehensive Public Health (Prevention, Control and Management of epidemics, bio-terrorism, and disasters) Bill to address the loopholes in the current laws including EDA. However, the Bill did not get tabled in Parliament. An Approach Paper on a new Public Health Act proposed by a 2012 task force is also gathering dust.A new and robust epidemic law must take into account the experiences and lessons learnt from the current crisis.First, the Act should provide for an NDMA like authority or body, having representation from both the Centre and states, responsible for designing and implementing well-coordinated surveillance, identification, contact-tracing, quarantine, isolation, testing strategy and treatment. The Act must also empower the body to plan a comprehensive and reasoned lockdown strategy, taking into account disruptions to supply lines, essential and non-essential services, human migration, relief and food support and all non-health services and utilities.Second, the Act must have provisions to allow for multi-sectoral emergency financial support and relief measures to local authorities, farmers, businesses and health care providers, and for animal care and livelihood safeguards.Third, the Act must provide adequate autonomy to states to design and enforce responses as per their local assessments, such as preparing health facilities to respond to various challenges at the district-, block- and gram panchayat-level. For example, the Odisha Government’s conferment of powers of the Collector on sarpanches to enforce isolation and quarantine of the migrant workers returning home from outside.Fourth, the Act must put in a more robust disincentive scheme, which should include a combination of civil and criminal penalties for violation of authorities’ orders. Currently, it provides only for criminal penalties. This should also include stringent punitive action against people abusing or mistreating frontline workers like doctors, nurses, paramedics, village-level health workers, sanitation staff and police personnel, accompanied, of course, by sufficient safeguards against overuse or misuse.Fifth, the Act must also have provisions to protect every citizen’s rights such as privacy. The balance between public health and the right to privacy must not be sacrificed at the altar of an emergency response. Any government response which involves surveillance or collection of personal data of individuals must also have adequate checks and balances to ensure proportionality and reasonableness of data collection. It must have provisions of anonymising the personal data, rigorous record-keeping, non-disclosure of personal data publicly and its deletion when the purpose of collection has been exhausted.Most importantly, there must be a clear definition of an “epidemic disease” to ensure a strict and clear boundary between the operation of an emergency statute and the resumption of ordinary laws.Extraordinary times such as the coronavirus pandemic require extraordinary measures. But even in times of emergencies, the laws must not fall silent. Public trust is strengthened only when adequate transparency and accountability measures are put in place by governments so that the public itself is able to judge the proportionality and reasonableness of the government’s actions.Amar Patnaik is Member of Parliament, Rajya Sabha from Odisha, a former CAG official, with a Master in Public Management from the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy, Singapore and the Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, an academic with a PhD in managementNikhil Pratap is an advocateThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/india-needs-a-new-epidemic-control-and-management-law/story-cglkPZb9OCLWObJjFqk2uO.html
21-05-2020||News||How Xi Jinping’s opposition stacks against him||There is growing turbulence in the political atmosphere in China. With the “Big Two” — as the plenary meetings of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) and the National People’s Congress (NPC) are known — scheduled for May 21 and 22 respectively, opposition to Chinese President Xi Jinping is visibly increasing. The CPPCC and NPC plenums, held in Beijing each March but delayed this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, will have almost 7,000 deputies and officials from across the country gathered to discuss and approve laws, the national budget anticipating the economic situation for the coming year, and the national defence and security budgets. Xi Jinping’s opponents appear to perceive this as an opportunity to widen the ambit of criticism and gather the assembled deputies’ support.Criticism of Chinese President Xi Jinping and the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) sparked when Xi Jinping, in March 2018, abolished the term-limits for top posts, allowing him and others chosen by him to continue beyond the accepted retirement age. A large number of serving and retired party members and cadres who suffered during the violent cultural revolution decade, apprehending a return to the “one-man rule” of Mao Zedong, are opposed to it. Other factors too contributed to the spread of dissatisfaction with the regime. Mishandling of the coronavirus outbreak in Wuhan and the death of Doctor Li Wenliang, punished for making public the news of the coronavirus, provoked a surge in public discontent and criticism. Add to that the instances of apparent subtle protest by some publications of provincial party organisations.Criticisms centred mainly on the Party controlling everything; incrementally stringent and intrusive security controls; the pervasive Social Credit Management system which evaluates the loyalty and trustworthiness of each individual to allow or withhold benefits; expanding the Party’s surveillance; imposition of the Party ideology on educational institutions; undue centralisation of the authority; and discarding of Deng Xiaoping’s policy of “lie low, bide your time”. The perception that the “China Dream” was slipping out of the leadership’s grasp was also growing because of the protest movements in Hong Kong, the re-election of the pro-independence Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) in Taiwan, and tensions in the South China Sea. A number of Party cadres, academics and officials in Chinese think-tanks privately blame Xi Jinping’s aggressive foreign policy for China’s growing international isolation and rapidly deteriorating relations with the United States (US).The unemployed, whose number went up from around 20 million in 2019 to an estimated 70-80 million by March this year, and complaints by ex-People’s Liberation Army (PLA) personnel, added to the widening discontent. This has been exacerbated by the coronavirus pandemic’s impact on China’s economy. Despite Chinese President Xi Jinping’s exhortations to cadres since early February to resume production, the economic revival has been slow. Discouraged by government policies and the expansion of State-owned Enterprises (SoEs) into all sectors of the economy, prominent Chinese businessmen have publicly voiced complaints and, in late March, delivered a letter to Xi Jinping seeking reforms. These included a call for the return to Deng Xiaoping’s policy of “lie low, bide your time”. Prominent Chinese economists have stated that unless the US and European economies start picking up, China cannot expect its economy to revive. Amid this — and almost without precedent in communist China — people blamed the CCP and Xi Jinping. Many senior Party cadres, officials, intellectuals, academics, students and others have risked punishment to criticise Xi Jinping on their social media. Intellectuals and Professors such as Xu Zhongrun, Xu Zhiyong, Zhang Xuezhong and Yu Linqi have demanded on WeChat that Xi Jinping step down. These posts have gone viral. A major indication of a serious inner-Party discontent was seen in a March 22 WeChat report when “princelings”, the children of high-level veteran Party cadres, called for an “Emergency Enlarged Meeting of the Chinese Communist Party’s (CCP’s) Politburo” to discuss Xi Jinping’s replacement.A May 5 essay in PLA Daily described the bleak economic and political situation as having reached a “high explosive point”, which foreign powers could use to provoke social upheaval. Concerned at the evolving situation, Xi Jinping established a new high-level “Small Group”, with nine of his loyalists as members to “prevent and crack down on activities that endanger the political security of the country.” He came down hard on Hong Kong, increased pressure on Taiwan, and enhanced China’s presence in the South China Sea.Xi Jinping is mentally tough and, as a “princeling”, has strong connections to the Party veterans. His trusted loyalists occupy crucial powerful positions. He is unlikely to back-off quietly in the face of inner-Party opposition. The new “Small Group” is a clear warning to opponents, “princelings” and Party veterans to fall in line. But whether they do so depends on the extent of the opposition in the middle and higher echelons of the Party and its veterans.Jayadeva Ranade is a former additional secretary, Cabinet Secretariat, Government of India. Currently, he is president, Centre for China Analysis and StrategyThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-xi-jinping-s-opposition-stacks-against-him/story-GZZSuz3uXeT5Ok9cWbmoHJ.html
21-05-2020||News||Fighting the misinformation pandemic in the age of Covid-19||The global disruption unleashed by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has led to an uptick in the use of social media platforms such as WhatsApp, Facebook, TikTok and Twitter. Facebook’s usage, for example, has increased by as much as 50% in countries hardest hit by Covid-19, whereas the Twitter usage in India has gone up by 30% between early-February and end-March. With the lockdown likely to continue in some form or other, the reliance on social media is likely to rise further. This has, however, exacerbated pre-existing challenges around curbing misinformation. Some forms of misinformation, such as a motivational quote misattributed to industrialist Ratan Tata, may be benign, but they can often have severe consequences. In April, 10 people in Andhra Pradesh were found in a semi-conscious state after they followed a “home remedy tip” for the coronavirus they found on TikTok. Similarly, misinformation about the role of specific communities in spreading the virus can further deepen the social divide. Tackling misinformation is a very delicate dance that requires us to traverse a narrow corridor between accurate information and free speech. As many as seven countries including Egypt, Malaysia and China have brought in legislation to control fake news, and almost all of them have been accused of committing excesses. Sensing the danger such steps can invite, an independent European Union committee has advised against bringing laws to curb misinformation.There are no easy responses, however. Society needs to build resilience and infrastructure to be able to tackle this scourge. It calls for a holistic national strategy, with clear roles for social media platforms, governments and individuals.Under intense pressure from governments, leading social media platforms have announced some measures to curb misinformation. For example, Facebook has partnered with the International Fact-Checking Network to provide flash grants for fact-checkers fighting coronavirus-linked misinformation. WhatsApp has introduced features that slow down misinformation by restricting the “frequently forwarded” messages to one chat at a time. Twitter has put in place a system that attempts to identify and remove instances of Covid-19-related misinformation.These measures are welcome, but not enough. In addition to expanding and intensifying the measures already in place, social media platforms must introduce more sophisticated tools, which, for example, sorts and ranks verified news or has a better pattern recognition capacity to remove highly deceiving-in-nature “deep fake” images and audios. This should be prioritised especially in India, where a lot of social media content is audio-visual and in regional languages.In such a crisis, the government, with its unmatched reach, perceived reliability and trust, has an indispensable role to play. As of now, it has reached out to platforms to remove users spreading misinformation, and, on the other side, has issued public advisories.Learning from the best practices employed in other countries to curb fake news, the government should consider implementing these three ideas.First, it should make fighting misinformation a jan andolan (mass movement) by involving people, much as it did with the Swachh Bharat Mission for sanitation. The Australian government’s ”stop and consider” campaign to tackle political misinformation employs the same idea.Second, it should create a non-partisan national task force that serves as a “rapid response mechanism” to coordinate among public and private agencies. This was pioneered in Canada in the run-up to its 2019 election.Third, the government can explore creating forums for citizens to receive accurate information. It has already launched a WhatsApp chatbot to provide accurate information on Covid-19. It can create a fact-checking unit that provides accurate information to the public through a website. Mexico created a government-run platform, ”verificado notimex”, which employs a network of fact-checkers. But, above all this, citizens have the most important role in curbing misinformation. Social media gives each of us immense power. It can be used as a platform for citizen-led mass movements as seen during the agitation against corruption during the last decade.Since out-of-context images are a major source of misinformation, citizens can be trained to use reverse search image tools such as RevEye and TinEye to locate their origin. Videos present an even higher level of complexity, but tools like InVID have begun to make a difference. In general, we should verify the accuracy of information by looking up a reliable source before forwarding it.Researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology have shown that posts that trigger an emotional response are shared more — that vulnerability is exactly what fake news targets. In short, if a story is too good, too funny, too infuriating, too sweet, or too outrageous, it is probably likely to be untrue.Subhashish Bhadra and Varad Pande work at Omidyar Network India, an investment firm that invests in bold entrepreneurs who help create a meaningful life for every IndianThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/fighting-the-misinformation-pandemic-in-the-age-of-covid-19/story-GBftzTGps8PR2759zBcKVI.html
21-05-2020||News||Covid-19: Aarogya Setu needs legislative backing||The government’s decision to make the coronavirus (Covid-19) tracking application, Aarogya Setu, mandatory in many spheres of life brings constitutional challenges such as the right to privacy of citizens.The Supreme Court (SC) has deliberated on the issue of privacy on numerous occasions. In Govind Vs State of MP in 1975, the Court recognised that the right to privacy is a part of a citizen’s personal liberty. The Court also held that this right deserved to be examined with care and must only be denied when an important countervailing interest is shown to be superior. In 1996, in PUCL Vs Union of India, the Court formulated guidelines imposing substantive and procedural restraints, while holding that the right to privacy includes informational privacy and confidentiality. However, in the 1998 Mr X Vs Hospital Z case, the Court’s view was that the right to privacy is not absolute and is subject to restrictions as may be lawfully imposed for prevention of crime or disorder, or protection of health or morals, or protection of rights and freedoms of others.In 2017, in the KS Puttuswamy Vs Union of India case, a nine-judge SC bench held that a “menu” of tests should be applied, depending upon the rights that may be infringed. It recognised the importance of a data protection law and its absence as a void in the enforcement of privacy laws. It held that there should be a rational nexus between the objects sought and the means adopted to achieve it, to ensure the extent of interference is proportionate to the need for such interference.The Centre’s directions are executive in nature, deriving their power from the Disaster Management Act, 2005, which doesn’t have any provision to deal with surveillance. However, as the statute is worded in the broadest possible terms and, as it is meant to deal with emergent and unforeseen situations, the authority given can be construed liberally. Still, the Act and the directions thereunder have to be tested on the touchstone laws infringing fundamental rights.The app has not specified the security practices it follows to protect the collected data. A mere declaration that data, being encrypted, is secure is not sufficient. The app requires the user’s Bluetooth and locations services to be switched on at all times. It is not clear if the collected data – or, specifically, the locational surveillance – will be shared with any other agency. In 2018, the ministry of home affairs had authorised 10 agencies to intercept and monitor information and individuals. As most of them are intelligence agencies, they are not liable to disclose information.Currently, there is no legal framework that governs the app beyond its privacy policy and terms of use. The terms and conditions clearly state that the user “agrees and acknowledges that the Government of India will not be liable for any unauthorized access to your information or modification thereof”.The app does not satisfy the menu of tests laid down in the Puttuswamy judgment. It also does not comply with the requirements of the Information Technology Act, 2000 or the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 as far as protections against surveillance are prescribed under these statutes. The lack of regulatory measures, absence of clear legislative authority, and multiple levels of delegation make the app susceptible to misuse.It is similar to the situation when the government had made the Aadhar cards mandatory, without necessary legislation. Once the government brought the Aadhar Act, it allowed citizens to approach the Court, which eventually stuck down parts of the Act it construed extra-constitutional.In the absence of any anchoring legislation, the government’s decision to make the app mandatory lacks legislative competence, besides failing the test of proportionality. The burden is now on the government to prove that the app satisfies the test of proportionality. As the app is mandatory, it could, in essence, allow the government to use it as a surveillance tool – to keep track of social contacts and whereabouts of any user – which would be a clear violation of citizens’ right to privacy. Amit Anand Tiwari is an Advocate on Record, Supreme CourtThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-aarogya-setu-needs-legislative-backing/story-KX76ZP3S3zu3FE6uGcfjoO.html
21-05-2020||News||A few tips for high-risk individuals to keep away Covid-19||It is now well established that the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) affects the elderly the most. The highest rate of mortality due to the virus is among the people older than 60 – only incremental with age. More than the age, the unusual death rate is due to the medical conditions associated with age. According to a report by China’s Centre of Disease Control and Prevention, out of a sample of 504 deaths, 31% had high BP, 16% diabetes and 18% underlying cardiovascular diseases. Similar numbers of a high percentage of co-morbidities have also been experienced in India and the United States.Not that such patients are at a high risk of getting infected, just that, with advancing age, they have a weaker immunity. Once they are infected, it has the potential to take on a more serious form. A weak immunity means a lower viral clearance, diminished T-cell function, and higher chances of severe inflammation leading to a cytokine storm, a form of heightened auto-immunity which, instead of killing the virus, ends up harming your own cells.The key, therefore, is to be vigilant – with proper physical distancing, cleaning of hands, and the use of masks.But among those who are at a higher risk are patients with high blood pressure (BP). They should continue using their prescribed medicines such as angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors (ramipril, lisinopril and enalapril) and angiostensin-receptor blockers (ARBs) (telmisartan, losartan and olmesartan). All other classes of drugs for reducing BP are safe.Among the simple measures to keep BP under control is measuring it regularly. Home BP measurements are superior to an isolated BP recording in a clinic or a doctor’s chamber. A calibrated and certified instrument available with chemists or online works. There are newer instruments that record the BP three times within a duration, and give out an average reading, a more accurate measurement than the old, one reading system.In case the BP readings are unusually high or low, speak with your health care provider. Except for minor adjustments, self-treatment is not recommended in this case.Involve yourself for regular physical activities for at least 30 minutes a day – averaging about 8,000 steps. Use moderate salt, avoid alcohol, and eat a low-calorie diet, with plenty of fresh fruits and vegetables.All the general precautions meant for a BP patient applies equally to diabetic patients. The patient should monitor the blood sugar periodically using easily-available home devices. The sugar levels should be maintained between 70 and 180 mgs and HbA1c below 7%.Those who are Covid+ve without symptoms must get in touch with their doctor, who might advise the patient to stop taking certain medicines. Generally, medicines such as metformin and sulfonyl-ureas (glimiperide, glibenclamide and gliclazide) are safe. However, drugs such as dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP4) inhibitors (gliptin group of drugs like linagliptin and sitagliptin), thiazolidinediones (pioglitazone and rosiglitazone), and glucose stimulated insulin secretion (GLPi) analogues (liraglutide) are stopped because of a theoretical possibility of increasing the viral load. Sodium glucose transport protein 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors (empagliflozin, dapagliflozin and canagliflozin) are reasonably safe unless the patient has high fever and vomiting. Insulin is safe – diabetics who need Covid-19-related hospitalisation shift to it.Much as with BP, this also requires lifestyle measures such as moderate exercise, use of low-fat and low sugar diet. Fresh vegetables and seasonal fruits work better. Meditation like pranayams and yoga are good accompaniments.Cardiac patients, on the other hand, need extreme care to avoid a high-risk event like a heart attack. All preventive steps for BP and diabetes apply here as well. But aspirin, cholesterol-lowering medicines and the ones administered to improve heart function – such as ACE inhibitors (ramipril) and ARB’s (losartan and valsartan), angiotensin receptor-neprilysin inhibitors (ARNI) (sacubitril and valsartan combination), beta blockers (metoprolol and bisoprolol) diuretics (furosemide) – must continue. The yearly flu and the four-yearly pneumonia vaccination must be administered.The asymptomatic Covid-19+ve patients should consult their doctor before altering the dosage or stopping the usage of regular medication. Since there is an overlap of symptoms in cardiac conditions and Covid-19 – cough, shortness of breath, and chest discomfort – patients must seek an expert opinion without any delay. They may require investigation and immediate hospitalisation to avoid complicating the situation.It is important that Covid-19 infection should not increase the mortality rate of treatable diseases. You just need to be a bit more vigilant.Dr Upendra Kaul is a cardiologist, former president, Cardiological Society of India and SAARC Cardiac Society, editor-in-chief, Asia Interventions, and recipient of Padma Shiri and Dr BC Roy AwardsThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/a-few-tips-for-high-risk-individuals-to-keep-away-covid-19/story-ACvWslI14WcrWRKZZDraYM.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Big Boss 13 contestant Shehnaaz Gill’s father booked for raping woman at gunpoint, absconding||Big Boss 13 contestant Shehnaaz Gill’s father has been booked for allegedly raping a 40-year-old woman at gunpoint, police said on Thursday. He is absconding.The accused, Santokh Singh, 45 allegedly raped the Jalandhar-based woman on May 14, but she lodged a complaint on May 19.Beas station house officer (SHO) Kirandeep Singh said, “The victim said she had an altercation with her boyfriend, after which he came to Beas. The victim and her friend followed him to make amends. Her boyfriend had been putting up with Santokh.”“As per the woman’s statement, when she reached Santokh’s home, he took her near a drain near Beas in his car on the pretext of taking her to her boyfriend. There he raped her at gun point.”Santokh also threatened to kill her should she complain about the sexual assault. A medical examination of the victim has been conducted, the report of which is pending.However, Shehnaaz’s brother Shehbaz Badesha has claimed that the rape allegations are ‘completely false’ and an attempt to defame their father. “Yes, there has been a case registered with the Punjab Police but these are completely false allegations. The lady in question is trying to defame my father. We are surely disturbed at the moment but we also know nothing is going to happen as we have enough proof that the lady is lying. The mentioned place where the incident according to her happened is under CCTV surveillance and we have arranged for recording of it,” he told SpotboyE in an interview.The accused had been booked under Sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Raids have been held to catch the accused who is absconding. Shehnaaz had participated in popular reality show Bigg Boss 13, which is hosted by Salman Khan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/big-boss-13-contestant-shehnaaz-gill-s-father-booked-for-raping-woman-at-gunpoint-absconding/story-S1UwdLu9AMKlghvkSAh0YJ.html
21-05-2020||Mumbai||Shiv Sena calls BJP ‘two-faced’ for planning protest during crisis||Amidst the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, politics in Maharashtra has heated up with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chalking out an agitation against the state government led by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.The state BJP’s `Maharashtra Bachao’ (Save Maharashtra) protest kick-started on Tuesday, with a party delegation meeting with Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to complain against the state’s handling of the coronavirus outbreak, and demanding an independent fiscal package from the government for Covid-19.As a part of this agitation, the BJP has also planned a state-wide protest on Friday between 11am and 12pm, wherein party workers will unfurl black flags outside their homes and hold signs condemning the Maharashtra government. The party has asked workers across the state to shout slogans targeting Thackeray during the agitation and send footage of their protests to the media. The party has claimed lakhs of its workers will participate in this agitation.State BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said, “The Covid-19 situation in the state is dire and this is a reflection of the Thackeray government’s utter failure in handling this pandemic. For two months, we refrained from doing anything but now as an opposition party, we have to do our duty to unmask the situation and express the citizenry’s discontent and anger.”Former chief minister and Leader of Opposition, Devendra Fadnavis said, “Maharashtra is the most affected state and it seems the situation in Mumbai has gone out of the hands of the government. The government made strategic errors since the beginning of the lockdown. The CM is new and has no administrative experience.”These protest plans have irked the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi, with Shiv Sena slamming the BJP for being “two-faced” given that Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his public addresses has been asking everyone to work together.Priyanka Chaturvedi, Sena’s spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member, tweeted: “It is a shame @BJP4Maharashtra is ignoring PM Modiji’s advise and continuing their political agenda. Instead of helping the government and the state to fight Covid, they protest.”The ruling parties are viewing the protest as part of a larger campaign to malign the government as it comes in the backdrop of a tweet by senior BJP leader Subramanian Swamy earlier this week, in which he shared an article calling for President’s Rule in Maharashtra. Swamy had also tweeted that his opinion was that Thackeray must break the alliance with the Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and join the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) again.“This is a sustained effort by the BJP to malign the MVA government. Someone or the other has been recommending President’s Rule or calling for the Army in Maharashtra under the guise of so-called bad management,” said a senior Sena minister, on condition of anonymity.NCP state chief and minister, Jayant Patil said, “Before imposing President’s Rule in Maharashtra, they must remove the governments in Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, and Gujarat. This is not the time to indulge in politics, otherwise, we could ask several questions starting with how did the coronavirus spread in the country with their government in charge. What was Modiji doing until mid-March even when it was evident that the coronavirus was going to be a global pandemic?”Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant released an earlier video clip of Fadnavis speaking to the media during the Sangli floods last year, slamming the then Opposition for indulging in politics at the time of a disaster. Sawant tweeted: “Doctors, medical care workers, police, administration, and the government are battling with Covid-19. BJP leaders instead of joining this battle are fighting with the government. This is a tragedy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-calls-bjp-two-faced-for-planning-protest-during-crisis/story-4Eum76ssr6ZuPLsWhXGpuK.html
21-05-2020||Mumbai||BMC mulls home quarantine for domestic air, train passengers arriving in Mumbai||With the Central government planning to resume domestic flights from Monday, and 200 trains from June 1, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) anticipates an increased passenger influx in the city.With this in mind, BMC is planning to screen all passengers on arrival and home quarantine them for 14 days.The civic body opines that institutional quarantine for those arriving via domestic flights will pose a challenge considering the hotel rooms have to be kept for incoming international passengers and increasing cases in Mumbai. However, BMC has maintained that discussions between the state government and Centre on the same will take place to formalise the guidelines for those coming to Mumbai via domestic flights and trains.“We have been quarantining international travellers at hotels, and currently around 1,040 of the 2,300 rooms are occupied. However, we will require these rooms for more international passengers considering the Central government plans to operate more repatriation flights under mission Vande Bharat. Also, the number of local cases may increase in the future, for which we need these hotel rooms,” said a BMC official.“The demand to accommodate frontline staff is also increasing. Hence, those without symptoms and arriving in Mumbai via domestic flights will be home quarantined for 14 days,” the official added.At present, international travellers have been quarantined at hotels, and those arriving in the city via train are being home quarantined. BMC is screening all travelers arriving in the city via train or flight.Domestic flights are expected to resume from May 25 and from June 1, Indian Railways will operate mail trains to Mumbai.P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner, said, “We have not drafted any guidelines yet. Aviation operations are under the Central government, and the discussions to restart will happen with the state government. We will take a call on the same after getting directions from the state government. However, we will prefer to have those arriving in the city via domestic flights to be home quarantined for 14 days.”Meanwhile, BMC has issued a circular stating that all international passengers arriving in Mumbai, who are being quarantined at hotels, will be compulsorily tested before getting discharged. Starting May 10, more than 2,000 passengers have arrived in the city from countries like UK, US, Philippines, Malaysia, Singapore, Bangladesh, etc. “All passengers from international destinations will compulsorily be tested before completion of 14 days of quarantine. The charges payable for the test will be borne by the passenger. If the result is negative, the patient shall be released,” the circular states.“They shall quarantine themselves in a separate room and follow social distancing measures. The passengers released will have to be home quarantined with a stamp. If the passenger is tested positive, the test shall be repeated on the seventh day. [The patient will be] released if tested negative. Under no circumstances shall the passenger be released from the hotel until the swab results come negative,” the circular adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-mulls-home-quarantine-for-domestic-air-train-passengers-arriving-in-mumbai/story-0ymcMNM8xxQsnO87Z5qhNJ.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh couple held for throwing newborn girl’s body in garbage bin||A couple was arrested on Thursday for disposing the body of a newborn girl in a garbage bin near Ram Darbar on May 13. The accused have been identified as 33-year-old Rajnish and her husband Shree Prakash, who live in a rented accommodation in Ram Darbar and hail from Faizabad of Uttar Pradesh. “The woman had given birth to a stillborn girl on May 13 and on the same day Prakash took the body to perform last rites,” said a police official.“However, Prakash disposed the body in the dustbin near a tubewell adjacent to the main road that leads to Ram Darbar from 3BRD. The baby was delivered at their house and the couple was helped by their neighbour Savita, who confirmed that the baby was stillborn,” said the official.“Rajnish was forcefully married off by her parents at the age of 13 and she delivered her first child when she was 16,” added the police official.Prakash, works as an auto-rickshaw driver in Chandigarh and they are parents to a 17-year-old girl and 12-year-old boy.Police said autopsy of the baby will be done on Friday and they had started collecting DNA samples of the parents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-couple-held-for-throwing-newborn-girl-s-body-in-garbage-bin/story-84RUxPx5ThSa6zy4caPk7H.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula crockery store owner duped of ₹3.25 lakh on pretext of fake distributorship||Police booked two persons for allegedly duping a shopkeeper of ₹3.25 lakh on the pretext of fake distributorship, on Thursday.The accused have been identified as Sunil Gupta and Rakesh Sharma.Complainant Raj Kumar Jindal, owner of a crockery store in Sector 10, told police that as he was not making any profit from his business amid the Covid-19 lockdown, he decided to sell Patanjali products.Jindal said he came in contact with Gupta, who explained the process of distributing Patanjali products to him.Police said Gupta allegedly asked the complainant to pay ₹25,000 as registration cost and lured him with a deal of 40% discount on maximum retail price.Police added that Jindal agreed to the deal, paid him ₹25,000, and shared documents including Aadhar card, PAN card, bank passbook and cancelled cheque.The complainant then placed an order, and paid ₹3 lakh, 50% of the total amount, in advance on May 18.Later, the complainant was told he needs to pay the full amount, as per new policy, by the other accused, Rakesh Sharma.This made Jindal suspicious and he asked the accused to refund his money, but to no avail, police said.Following this, he filed a complaint and a case was registered under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Sector 5 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panchkula-crockery-store-owner-duped-of-3-25-lakh-on-pretext-of-fake-distributorship/story-FjTw0eUdKC1rjVjlRczQJO.html
21-05-2020||Mumbai||Offer Eid prayers at home, appeals city police chief||Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh and community leaders appealed to people to celebrate upcoming Eid festival and offer Namaz at home in a bid to prevent further spread of Covid-19 in Mumbai, the worst-affected city in the country. Singh said, “So far we have received good co-operation from people during the holy month of Ramzan. We expect the same cooperation from our brothers during Eid as well. No permission is being given for organising any religious activity or Eid namaz or prayers in public places. This is being done to prevent further spread of the virus in Mumbai. Together, Mumbaiites will win this battle against Covid-19.” Pranaya Ashok, DCP (operations) and Mumbai Police spokesperson, said, “We have informed all 93 police stations across Mumbai that no permission shall be granted to any organisation for any religious activity which is in violation of lockdown order.” MLA and cabinet minister Aslam Shaikh said, “Eid will be celebrated either on May 24 or May 25 as per sighting of moon. As the curfew has been extended, our community will follow lockdown orders and offer Namaz at home and not in mosques.” “We have obeyed the rules, and also made frequent announcements from mosques during Ramzan requesting people to stay home and to celebrate Eid and pray at home,” said Suhail Khandwani, trustee of Mahim dargah and Haji Ali dargah. 2.86 lakh people sent back, 2.29 lakh on waiting listTill Thursday afternoon, a total of 2,86,247 stranded people, mostly migrants, have been sent back to their home states while 2,29,915 are still on the waiting list of the Mumbai Police. In all a total of 5, 16, 162 people have been registered with Mumbai Police. In this 2, 42, 899 have been sent back by train and 43, 348 left by other modes of transport like buses and cars. Pranaya Ashok, DCP (ops), confirmed the figures. In a related development, 2,000-odd migrants from slums in Kandivli (West) who had registered with Kandivli police had to return back to their shelters in Mumbai as two trains that were to leave from Borivli station to their home states were cancelled on Thursday by railways. 750 personnel positive in Mumbai Police, 519 quarantined The total number of Mumbai Police personnel who tested positive for Covid-19 rose to 750 on Thursday afternoon. A total of 10 personnel have died so far in Mumbai Police. On Thursday, a constable from Thane Police and another constable from Pune Police succumbed to the infection, taking the total death toll to 16 in state police. Another 448 police constables and 71 officers have been quarantined. Third covid care centre for cops at police gymkhanaA 50-bed Covid care centre will be soon set up at Mumbai Police gymkhana, Marine Lines for all police personnel who tested positive. A senior police officer confirmed the development. There are two existing Covid care centres for cops in the city; one at Vakola with 300-beds and one at Marol with 250 beds. 113 booked, 57 arrested for lockdown violations on WednesdayA total of 113 FIRs against the same number of people have been registered on Wednesday and 57 have been arrested. A maximum of 90 FIRs were for gathering in one place, 13 for not wearing masks, five for unnecessary use of vehicles and two against shops for operating despite being a non-essential service. A maximum of 47 FIRs were in south Mumbai, followed by 24 each in eastern and western suburbs of Mumbai. 15 FIRs were registered in central Mumbai and 3 in north Mumbai. 78 inmates released from Arthur Road jailSeventy eight inmates were released on bail from Arthur Road jail, where at least 184 people have tested positive for Covid-19 and been quarantined within the overcrowded jail premises in the past three days. Similarly, 89 inmates were released from Byculla District Prison, 57 from Thane Central Jail and 76 from Taloja Jail. In the past one week, around 534 inmates were released on bail across Maharashtra. Till May 21, based on the decisions made by the high-powered committee, 7,876 prisoners have been released either on parole or on bail from jails across the state since lockdown started. According to an official release by the Maharashtra prison authorities, the state prisons still have 30,416 more inmates.Man arrested for trying to send unlisted migrants in train Sakinaka police arrested a 30-year-old man from Kajupada slum in Andheri (East) for charging ₹1,100 from unlisted migrants to get them on-board Shramik special trains in place of listed migrants who have left on their own after waiting for several days. Kishor Sawant senior inspector of Sakinaka police station, said, “The accused, Madan Lal Yadav, and his aides knew most of the migrant group leaders in our jurisdiction. He used to be keep in touch with them to find out if there are any registered migrants from their group who left on their own. He then used to take ₹1,100 from unlisted migrants to send them in place of the listed migrants.” The accused used to lie to group leaders saying the police would cancel their registration if they find people missing from the list. “Due to huge crowds, we only check the details of the group leaders. However, on Wednesday we started calling each migrant by their name and found few 18 unlisted people were in one group,” said an officer. “We also suspect they may have charged more than 100 migrants for this service. We have booked them under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Epidemic Diseases Act,” Sawant added.(With inputs from Jayprakash S Naidu, Vijay Kumar Yadav and Suraj Ojha)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/offer-eid-prayers-at-home-appeals-city-police-chief/story-e1PMLvhNgiyudY0hyfSxiP.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Consumer forum directs housing company to refund ₹5.25 lakh to Zirakpur brothers||The district consumer disputes redressal forum has directed M/s BCL Homes Limited, Dariya, Chandigarh, and three directors to refund ₹5.25 lakh and pay ₹ 50,000 as compensation to two Zirakpur residents for deficiency in service.Ratnish Garg and his brother Munish filed a complaint stating that they jointly booked two three-bedrooms flats with the company (opposite parties) in their upcoming project, Chinar Homes, at Kishanpura, Zirakpur, in March 2013.The brothers said they paid ₹5.25 lakh and the company issued them a letter stating that they were eligible for 12 draws for allotment of flats over a period of a year.“It was also mentioned that if we were not successful in any of the monthly draws, the registration amount would be refunded after a year with 15% interest. But, the opposite parties (the company) failed to fulfil their promise despite repeated requests and personal entreaties,” the brothers told the court, adding that it amounts to deficiency in service and unfair trade practice.The company and two directors in their written statement pleaded that the complainants are “Speculative buyers and claimed the refund on account of prevalent property prices which have come down.”They added that the possession of the fully developed project could not be offered on account of force majeure conditions which were beyond the control of the opposite parties.The forum observed: “The opposite parties have the complainants’ money for a long time and have failed to redress their grievances. Neither of the opposite parties have refunded the money or offered possession till date. Hence they are liable to pay back the amount deposited.”It directed the company and three directors to jointly refund ₹5.25 lakh along @9% interest per annum from the respective dates of deposit, till its realisation; and to pay ₹50,000 on account of deficiency in service and causing mental and physical harassment to the complainants; and ₹10,000 as litigation cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/consumer-forum-directs-housing-company-to-refund-5-25-lakh-to-zirakpur-brothers/story-Npe58TrbSh3jSs5G56f3II.html
21-05-2020||Mumbai||Train travel within Maharaashtra will not be allowed||Passengers wanting to travel within Maharashtra by train will not be permitted. The Indian Railways, in a notification issued on Thursday evening, stated that tickets of passengers whose originating and terminating stations are in Maharashtra will be cancelled. “The Maharashtra government has informed Railways that inter-district travel is prohibited within the state of Maharashtra. It is, therefore, desired that tickets of all passengers whose originating and terminating stations fall within Maharashtra be cancelled and full refund be given without deduction of any cancellation charges. It is desired that till further orders inter-state booking within Maharashtra should not be permitted.” states the notification issued by the Railways ministry.However, passengers wanting to travel outside Maharashtra can travel. Indian Railways will commence operation of 200 passenger trains from June 1 across India. These trains will be operated alongside Shramik special trains.Booking for the tickets started on Thursday morning and are only available on the Indian Rail Catering Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/train-travel-within-maharaashtra-will-not-be-allowed/story-arJdA1zvud6sBAkCD3ZUaN.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University yet to appoint director of centre for competitive examinations||Panjab University is yet to appoint the new director of its centre for IAS and other competitive examinations.Paramjit Kaur’s tenure as director of the centre ended on March 31 after two years. Dean university instructions (DUI) RK Singla was appointed honorary director of centre on April 1, till further orders.The varsity had invited applications for the post from professors and associate professors of the university in February . Due to bleak response, the last date for applying was extended from February 25 to March 9.As per sources, five applications have been received for the post by the university, so far.A faculty member of the university said, “If the varsity can appoint the DUI through virtual platforms, the director for IAS centre can also be appointed through the same procedure. Discipline of the faculty member, seniority and domain of knowledge should be the main criteria for appointment.”PU constitutes panel The varsity has constituted a panel under the chairmanship DUI RK Singla to recommend a new director for the centre. However, the meeting of the panel scheduled for May 19 was postponed.“The decision will be taken shortly based on the committee’s recommendation. The name recommended by the panel will be sent to vice- chancellor for final approval,” Singla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-yet-to-appoint-director-of-centre-for-competitive-examinations/story-YEENbgh1KsArx0V6SQyhGN.html
21-05-2020||City||Thane records 4 Covid deaths, 96 new cases||Four Covid patients died while 96 new cases were recorded in the city on Thursday, the second highest one-day spike. The total number of cases in the city is 1,560 with 61 total deaths. Two medical officers and three staffers of the health department of Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) have tested positive following which 35 employees are quarantined. The total number of Covid positive healthcare workers from Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj hospital in Kalwa has reached 21.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “Three men and one woman died on Thursday. A 52-year-old woman from Khopat, a 80-year-old man from Kalwa, a 51-year-old man from Lokmanyanagar Sawarkarnagar and a 60-year-old man from Anandnagar in Kopri died after testing positive for Covid. Twenty-three new cases were recorded in Lokmanyanagar Sawarkarnagar ward followed by 18 in Naupada-Kopri and 17 in Wagale Estate ward.”The five people who tested positive from the health department of TMC had come in contact with a medical officer from Kalwa hospital who had come to TMC for a meeting. An officer requesting anonymity said, “Around 35 people, including the health officers, are in quarantine. All of them will be tested. The department has been sealed again. The number of positive cases in Kalwa hospital has increased to 21, which includes around nine doctors. Some of the departments in the hospital are also sealed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-records-4-covid-deaths-96-new-cases/story-FPhqZ3lHOBTBkyBTHYkbNL.html
21-05-2020||City||Air pollution on the rise in Noida as factories open||Noida: After staying within prescribed limits during the first three phases of lockdown, the air pollution levels in Noida and adjoining regions have now started to rise.While the pollution levels are still much lesser – almost half – as compared to those of last year during the same period, the month of May is seeing a sudden spike in the air quality index that fluctuates between ‘moderate’ to ‘poor’ categories on the air quality index (AQI) against the ‘satisfactory’ to ‘moderate’ categories last month.According to records from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB), the AQI for Noida in April 2020 oscillated from 73 to 184 on a scale of 0 to 500, with half of the month seeing ‘satisfactory’ air quality. However, the AQI for May 2020 so far has oscillated between 97 and 160, with only a few days of ‘satisfactory’ air quality. On the AQI, 0 is least polluted whereas 500 is most polluted. Going by CPCB’s data, the month of April saw a total of 17 days of ‘satisfactory’, 12 days of ‘moderate’, and one day of ‘poor’ AQI. Meanwhile, until May 21, the month has experienced only three days of ‘satisfactory’ and 18 days of ‘moderate’ air quality.The AQI in April and May last year had oscillated between ‘poor’ and ‘very poor’ categories.According to the CPCB, for the month of April 2020, the average particulate matter (PM) 2.5 was recorded at 45.86 micrograms per cubic metres (Ug/m3), while the same was 84.52 Ug/m3 in the same month last year. The average volume of PM2.5 for May 2020 so far has increased to 50 Ug/m3 against 99.38 Ug/m3 last year in May.The district administration of Gautam Budh Nagar had earlier in May allowed construction activities as well as restricted operations of industries to run. However, due to a number of reasons, the operations of industries are yet to reach their full potential.“While the pollution levels are still under control, thanks to the lockdown, pollution levels are rising yet again and the major reason seems to be that more and more vehicles are now plying on roads due to lockdown relaxations. We had also seen traffic across the Delhi-Noida-Direct flyway, even as industrial units and construction activities are still far from resuming operations to their full strength. This gives us a rough idea that we have to take a fresh look into the sources of pollution. The share of vehicular pollution has to be more than what it is believed to be,” said Ashish Jain, director, Indian Pollution Control Association.According to Noida-based environmentalists, increasing cases of waste burning is also causing issues and needs to be checked.“Slight rise in pollution levels could be felt and the AQI levels are also showing the same. While relaxation in the lockdown could be one of the reasons, however more and more incidents of waste burning, etc., are being reported. There are many cases of waste burning, and this has to be checked,” said Vikrant Tongad, a Noida-based environmentalist.While officials said they also noticed that the air quality is dropping, they, however, believe that meteorological reasons such as dust storms to be the major cause.“Yes, there has been slight deterioration in the air quality, but the major reason for the same is dust storms in recent weeks. Obviously, vehicular emissions are a reason and their share is somewhere between 22 to 33%, but the current situation is more due to the dust coming in,” said Anil Kumar Singh, regional officer, UPPCB, Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/air-pollution-on-the-rise-in-noida-as-factories-open/story-049uQ9WEEDuiJsugsyM93I.html
21-05-2020||City||Fire in 3 Greater Noida factories; no injuries||Fire was reported in three adjacent factories in Udyog Vihar in the Ecotech 3 area of Greater Noida on Thursday afternoon. There were no casualties in the incident.As per fire department officials, the cause of the fire was a short circuit. According to fire department officials, the incident was reported around 11.30 am.“The fire started due to a short circuit in the corner of a godown of a food processing factory, after which it quickly spread to an adjacent packaging factory,” said chief fire officer (CFO), Arun Kumar Singh.Due to the volatile nature of the chemicals present in the industries, the fires spread quickly, said officials. A third factory, which housed moulding material, was also affected, although the damage there was far less compared to the other two factories.The godown mostly contained tetra packs of a mango juice variant, while there was packaging material in the second factory. The damage to the third unit was contained to just one corner.“It took almost two dozen fire tenders to control the fire. The majority of the fire was contained in an hour but it took almost four hours to completely douse it,” said the CFO.Officials said that factories had resumed operations recently and even though there was staff present who had to be rescued, there were no casualties. The incident could have been much worse had the fire spread to any other adjoining plots.The first factory was a single-story structure but the second one had two more floors above the ground. Both of them were completely gutted. An estimate of the loss is being prepared by the owners. No police complaints have been made in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fire-in-3-greater-noida-factories-no-injuries/story-qfjl54NdEd6rqcZQcq0fAK.html
21-05-2020||City||Nine new Covid-19 cases identified in GB Nagar including two employees of Oppo||Noida: Gautam Budh Nagar reported nine new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday bringing the total to 302. The new cases include two more employees of OPPO mobile in Greater Noida. Around 10 persons have been found positive for the infection from the mobile firm.A 20-year-old man from the Kasna area and a 28-year-old man from Habibpur Sutyana in Greater Noida were found positive for Covid-19. The duo is attached with OPPO mobile and had got tested at a private lab in Noida. Both the patients are admitted at the Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida. Health officials received 173 results of OPPO employees, out of which five Covid-19 positive persons were identified. Two persons are residents of Bihar and one from Mathura. On May 18, Health department had identified nine covid-19 positive persons who are employed with the OPPO Mobile India Pvt Limited in Ecotech 7, Kasna, Greater Noida to be positive for the infection. Out of 9, 8 were residents of GB Nagar while 1 is from Ghaziabad.“OPPO had obtained permission from the state authorities to resume production, following the MHA directive. As an organization that places the safety of all our employees and citizens at the forefront, we had not only undertaken COVID-19 tests for all employees at manufacturing facility in Greater Noida but also suspended all operations at the plant. We are undertaking stringent measures to keep the employees safe,” said a media spokesperson from OPPO had informed earlier.The other patients include a 67-year-old man from Jhundpura village in Sector 11 of Noida. A 36-year-old man from Sector 81 in Noida was also found positive. Both the patients had got themselves checked a private lab in Noida. The source of infection of both the cases is not identified.A 52-year-old man from the Kila colony of Jewar was tested positive at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences in Greater Noida. A 60-year-old woman from Chaulash area in the Dadri area was also found positive for the infection. Both the patients were tested at GIMS. Source of infection of both the cases is yet to be identified.A 25-year-old woman and a 29-year-old man from village Nagla in Phase 2 of Noida were also found positive at a private lab in Noida. Officials suspect that duo contracted infection from the earlier cases from the area. A 40-year-old man from the Noida Extension area was also found infected with Covid-19 and was tested positive at a private lab in Noida. The district health department is expecting that the number of cases will increase as the movement of people has increased after the lockdown has been eased down. “The number of Covid-19 cases has reached the rural area following the increased movement of people. We are trying to notify all the travelers coming to the district as per the protocol of the state government. In the last few days, there are many cases wherein the source of infection is not known,” said a senior health official from GB Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nine-new-covid-19-cases-identified-in-gb-nagar-including-two-employees-of-oppo/story-zcIcrDRlcT1qAG6TS3i8dP.html
21-05-2020||Noida||Greater Noida serving food to only 18,000 migrant workers now, Noida feeding 80,000||The Greater Noida authority on Thursday said it is currently serving food to nearly 18000 workers daily in the city as compared to 47,000 migrant workers it was providing for when the nationwide lockdown had started. Meanwhile, nearly 80,000 migrant workers and others are taking cooked meals from food distribution centers run by the Noida authority these days. At the start of the lockdown period, the Noida authority was serving two meals to over 13,0000 migrant workers, daily wagers, homeless people according to officials. With the Central government easing lockdown guidelines and allowing many businesses including factories, shops, retail outlets to resume operations, many workers have believed to join work or have either left for their home towns. Officials expect the number of people taking meals from distribution centers to decrease further in the coming days.“The Greater Noida authority served food to 20,000 people on May 19 and as many as 18,000 people on May 20 against the usual count of serving 47,000 people daily. The number is decreasing as either the workers are leaving the city or returning to their workplaces,” said Deep Chand, additional chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority.Thousands of migrant workers have left for their home towns in trains and buses arranged by the district administration. The Uttar Pradesh government has directed the officials to continue arranging transportation until all migrant workers who want to go home reach their destinations. The state government took the decision to send arrange transport for the workers after many people had started walking to their homes undertaking long, arduous journeys. “Earlier when the requirement of food was at its peak, we served food to over 1,30,000 people every day. But now many migrants workers have left the city for their home towns. On Thursday, we served over 80,000 people in different sectors,” said a Noida authority spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-serving-food-to-only-18-000-migrant-workers-now-noida-feeding-80-000/story-TuVk8tTmN3CHGSg6rN7MfO.html
21-05-2020||Noida||Noida markets open to a tepid response on their first day||Many markets in Gautam Budh Nagar district wore a deserted look on Thursday, the first day of relaxation for commercial activities in the district.On Wednesday, the district administration had allowed shops to operate provided they followed the odd-even scheme (Each shop has a number given to them by their market association. Those with even numbers will open on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday while the rest will be open on all other days. On Sunday, all shops will be closed and will be sanitised) and social distancing protocol.Meanwhile, the police commissionerate had made elaborate arrangements for the safety and security of the traders, who opened their shops after nearly two months. GB Nagar commissioner of police (CP) Alok Singh said , “Flag marches with rapid action force (RAF) were conducted in different market areas of the district today. We also appealed to them to make sure their customers followed social distancing to check the spread of Covid-19. Our boys are also encouraging them to download the Aarogya Setu application on their mobiles,” he said.Manish Kumar, who runs a mobile shop in Atta Market, said that the first day passed in only cleaning the piles of the dirt accumulated during the lockdown period. “We have been asked to properly display the stipulated days of opening the shops. We have also been asked by the district administration to keep a detailed record of customer visiting the shops,” he said.Kumar said very few customers came to his shop on Thursday. “Earlier, it was never less than 200 customers a day. But today, it was only four customers till 4 pm,” he said.Echoing similar views, Dinesh Singh, who runs a restaurant in sector 63, said he received only two orders online. “With such a lukewarm response from the customers, it will be really hard to run this shop,” he said.Sushil Kumar Jain, the president of sector 18 market association, said that they did not expect many customers for at least two weeks. “I think the traders need at least a week’s time to clean their shops and the surrounding areas. After that, they will also have to generate faith among the customers that shopping with precautions will not cause any infection to them,” he said.GB Nagar traders suffered loss of over ₹200 crore during the lockdown, he said. “It’ll take at least a year to recover. The stocks left in our shops before the lockdown, are either outdated or have been destroyed by rats and cockroaches. Who’ll want to buy the clothes designed in February and March in May and June,” he said.Jain also criticised the government for not providing any relief to the small and medium traders. “We had to bear the salaries of our staff, rents, property taxes, electricity and water bills, besides the mounting bank dues, in the lockdown period. But, what is really foxing the trading community is that not even a single penny was allocated for us in the much-hyped ₹20 lakh crore package (announced by the central government). But, we have high hopes of revival,” he said. Meanwhile, according to the reports coming late, GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY, on Thursday evening, visited different markets in Noida, including Atta market in sector 18, Kanchanjanga Market in sector 50, Gijhor, Bhangel and Baraula. “The DM interacted with traders and customers at these places and asked them to strictly follow Covid-19 protocols. He also laid stress on ensuring complete sanitisation and safety measures,” the press release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-markets-open-to-a-tepid-response-on-their-first-day/story-efi5aXNGcMy63GbWDK4LfN.html
21-05-2020||City||Ghaziabad urban slips back into Red Zone, six more cases emerge||Based on the directions issued by the Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday night, urban areas of Ghaziabad district have been categorised as ‘red zones’. The government has also listed urban settlements in Gautam Budh Nagar, Meerut, Agra and Kanpur City as ‘red zones’.“The directions came late Wednesday night and the urban areas of Ghaziabad district are now in ‘red zone’ . As per earlier classification by the ministry of health and family Welfare, the district was categorised as ‘orange zone’. So now, the city areas have slipped into the red zone category where only a restricted number of activities are allowed,” Dr NK Gupta, district chief medical officer (CMO) said.The urban areas in Ghaziabad include localities such as Kaushambi, Vaishali, Indirapuram, Vasundhra, Sahibabad, Raj Nagar Extension, Crossings Republik, Raj Nagar, and Kavi Nagar among others.Under the new guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA)on May 17, states and union territories (UTs) were given powers to classify and demark red, green and orange zones while taking into consideration the parameters shared by the health ministry.The range of the zone can go up to a district, a municipal corporation or even smaller administrative units such as sub-divisions, etc, as decided by respective states and UTs.Within the red and orange zones, containment and buffer zones will be demarcated by the local authorities taking into account the guidelines of the health ministry.“Classifying Ghaziabad’s urban areas as ‘red zone’ was done keeping in mind the number of parameters like total active cases, active cases per lakh of population, rate of doubling of cases, fatality rate, testing ratio, and positive sample rate. After the city area was declared a red zone, we prepared a list of 50 areas under category 1 (having one positive case) and another set of 18 areas under category 2 (having more than one positive case). In these containment zones activities will be restricted,” the CMO added.According to the list, category 1 areas includes pockets in Raj Nagar Extension, Shaheed Nagar, Sahibabad, Jhandapur, Vaishali sector-1, Mohan Nagar, Vasundhara, Loni, Khoda, Sanjay Nagar, and Vijay Nagar among others.The category 2 containment zones include areas in Khoda, Indirapuram, Dasna Gate, sectors 1 and 5 in Vaishali, Jhandapur and Islam Nagar among others.Only activities related to essential services are allowed in containment zones. Movement of people in and out of the sealed area is not allowed except for medical emergencies and for getting essential goods.“We have deployed teams in containment zones which are conducting surveillance activities like door-to-door surveys, collecting samples and sanitisation drives, etc,” Dr Gupta added.Till Thursday night, the tally of the Covid-19 cases in Ghaziabad stood at 202 out of which 175 people have recovered so far, officials said.What affected city’s prospects?The officials said that the number of active cases and the doubling rate put the city moved the city from ‘orange zone’ to ‘red zone’. The city has 37 active cases currently, said officials.The categorisation was broadly based on six parameters—total active cases (zero or no cases reported in last 21 days is the most desirable scenario), active cases per lakh of population, case doubling rate (more than 28 days desired), case fatality rate (less than 1% of the total population is the desired rate), testing ratio, sample positivity rate ).“The city lost primarily on two counts— total active cases which are still 37 (till Thursday night), and the doubling rate. The number of cases have doubled at a faster pace. The rest of the parameters are very much in control, but positive cases are being reported at a fast rate each day even though many patients are getting discharged,” Dr Gupta said.“The cases are coming in each day and there are barely any days with zero cases now. For the city to move out of the ‘red zone’ category, we need zero cases to be reported for 21 days continuously. However, the incidence of positive cases being reported in Ghaziabad is coming down,” Dr DK Sonkar, state observer sent by the Uttar Pradesh government to Ghaziabad.The first case of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Ghaziabad was reported on March 5 and in a span of about 48 days. the figure reached 50 cases on April 22. On May 5, Ghaziabad had 100 cases.The next 50 cases (total count 150) were reported in a span of another 10 days, while the district crossed the 200-mark on May 21. Six new cases were reported on Thursday, taking the district’s tally to 202 cases.The district administration was supposed to roll out the plan for the opening of market areas on Thursday, but in light of the district being classified as a red zone, officials said, they will now release the guidelines on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-urban-slips-back-into-red-zone-six-more-cases-emerge/story-vqy7qTTKokynJhtl0Qg5vK.html
21-05-2020||City||Only 60 of 75,000 migrants sent home from Ghaziabad tested, results yet to come||Ghaziabad: Even as thousands of migrant workers are sent home from Ghaziabad to their hometowns by buses and trains every day, the health department has tested only 60 workers for the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease since Monday, with another 30 samples on Thursday.According to an estimate by district authorities, around 75,000 migrant workers have been sent to their home towns from Ghaziabad by state-run Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) buses, as well as trains which are plying from Ghaziabad railway station to cities in UP and Bihar. This figure, however, does not include those migrant workers who have left from the district or have gone through on foot or in trucks.The state health department officials said Thursday evening that out of a total of 46,142 migrant workers tested so far, at least 1,230 have tested positive for Covid-19. There have been concerns that the reverse migration could take the virus to their home districts and towns which have hitherto not seen coronavirus cases.“The directions for taking up sampling of migrant workers were received only three days ago and we were asked to collect 20 samples each day for pool testing. So far, we have collected only 60 samples in three days (till Wednesday) and reports of these are yet to be received. We sent the samples initially to Noida for testing but they denied (undertaking testing). Now, these samples have been sent to Meerut and test reports are awaited,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.“The migrant workers should be checked comprehensively but we started taking sampling only when directions came from state officials three days ago. We have noted details of workers whose samples were taken. If they come out positive, we will inform their home district,” he added.He added that the health department teams deployed at shelter homes were asked to collect 30 samples on Thursday.“Covid-19 testing is not possible for every migrant worker but health teams are carrying out body temperature checks with the help of infrared temperature monitors. We have about 1,000-1,200 staff members including bus drivers and conductors deployed in ferrying passengers but their tests have not been done so far,” said AK Singh, regional manager of UPSRTC.Raghvendra Singh, who works as a driver and is from Banda district in Bundelkhand region of UP, raised concerns that there are no ways to check whether any of the other migrants travelling with him have the coronavirus.“I came here Thursday morning with my wife from Ramprastha where I work as a driver. There are about 40 persons in the bus apart from 15-20 children with their parents. So there is hardly any social distancing. Officials at the (Ramlila) ground merely checked our temperature and told us to board the bus. This will not help in case someone is infected. On my part, I spent Rs 500 to buy a hand sanitizer and a face mask for me and my wife,” he said.Shiv Nath, from Gorakhpur, reached Morta in Ghaziabad from Sonipat in Haryana on Wednesday night on foot. He is travelling by bus to his home town with five other family members.“There are thousands of migrants in the farm house (where the migrants have been housed) and all are sleeping in close spaces on the floor. Before boarding the bus, our temperature was checked. At present, we don’t if anyone is infected or not but our priority is to reach home. Once I am home, I will get myself tested,” he added.Amit Mohan Praasad, UP’s principal secretary (health), said Thursday many migrant workers who have returned to their home towns or villages have tested positive. “Migrants are being monitored for Covid-19. Our Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) members have contacted at least 5,42,543 migrant workers at their homes. Out of a total of 46,142 samples collected so far, 1,230 have tested positive. Monitoring is also taken up by Mohalla Nigrani Samiti and Gram Nigrani Samiti as the migrants have been asked to remain in home quarantine for 21 days,” Prasad said.According to officials, over 20 lakh migrant workers have returned home across UP so far with the help of buses and trains. The figure includes about 15.27 lakh workers who have come home or are in the process of reaching home with the help of 1,154 trains being run by the Indian Railways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/only-60-of-75-000-migrants-sent-home-from-ghaziabad-tested-results-yet-to-come/story-syihUxXnXqy308Fnm2ZC9J.html
21-05-2020||Noida||PG residents allege harassment by landlord over rent||Residents of a paying guest accommodation in Sector 66 have alleged that they are being harassed by the landlord for rent even though the facilities he promised have stopped working.The residents took to social media to express their displeasure at the situation.“We request the UP government to protect us. We are nearly 100 people living in sector 66. We are being mentally disturbed again and again for the rent and we are being asked for extra money even though the kitchen has been closed for a month (sic),” read one such tweet.Residents have also uploaded photos of the empty kitchen. A majority of the group is from Kerala. They have alleged that they have been stuck there without any help or food.“Last month they asked us for extra money saying that the price of commodities has gone up. Most of us paid the increased amount but the kitchen has been non-functional ever since. Then this month the owner kept harassing us for rent even though we are not receiving any of the promised facilities,” Shubham Singh, a resident of the PG, said.He said that the owner even told them that the new rent cycle would begin from the 20th of every month.“There were almost 100 of us here, but now we are down to around 50. More of us are leaving the place. I will also shift soon as we are not even getting food here. The owner doesn’t live here and even the caretaker left weeks ago,” Singh said.Residents said that they hope officials take cognizance of the matter even though a call to the police earlier had not yielded any help.“We have reports of a caretaker from the area who had fled. We will check if this is the same establishment. So far, no complaints have come to us but we will look into the matter,” Anil Kumar Singh, station house officer, Phase 3 police station, said.Several attempts to reach the owner of the PG accommodation failed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/pg-residents-allege-harassment-by-landlord-over-rent/story-g2vLLV64JsrD3DHDoYJdRP.html
21-05-2020||City||Couple assaulted by landlord over rent||A family living in a rented accommodation in Sector Alpha 2 in Greater Noida was allegedly assaulted by the landlord on Tuesday night, following an argument over their inability to pay the rent.The family is a native of Agra and has been living in the house for the past three months. The husband works for a security service company but has not received his salary for the past couple of months.“In March, a friend was visiting us, but the landlord had problems with him staying here. Soon, the lockdown happened. But somehow, I managed to take him back to Lucknow. On my way back, there was an accident in which my car was damaged. A lot of our savings went in its repair and we are still waiting for the insurance payment,” said the husband on account of anonymity.He said that the family was having trouble in paying the rent of ₹6,500. “The landlord was well aware of our financial problems, but on Tuesday night, he came downstairs and demanded that we pay him instantly. There was an argument, which was soon settled. But after a while, he came back again with other people and his family members and started manhandling us and threatening to throw our stuff out,” said the man.In the ensuing scuffle, the wife sustained a mild injury. Their four-year-old son was also present at the house, during the time of the incident.“They started to throw our stuff outside and asked us to leave immediately. It was only after the intervention of neighbours, they we were able to escape. When we said that we will call the police, they boasted of having connections. Later, however, we did call the police, who took me for first aid and helped us get back when the landlord refused to even open the gate. We are now looking for another place,” said the wife.Based on her complaint, a case was registered against the landlord, his two children and other unidentified people under sections 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 452 (house trespass) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).“The landlord was arrested, while the roles of the other people are being investigated,” said Sujeet Kumar Upadhyay, station house officer (SHO), Beta 2 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/couple-assaulted-by-landlord-over-rent/story-tdiy8xS0ApSvZU5S8ZsHVM.html
21-05-2020||City||Seven robbers arrested following police encounter||Greater Noida: Seven people were arrested by the Surajpur police after an encounter on Wednesday night in connection with a robbery in March. Three of the suspects were injured in the encounter.The suspects were identified as Sattar, Saddam, Pankaj Sharma, who were injured, and Gyani, Salmaan, Bobby and Sudheer Kumar. All seven hail from Gautam Budh Nagar and Aligarh districts.According to the police, the men were involved in a robbery on the intervening night of March 15 and 16 in Surajpur.“A canter driver transporting around 50 air coolers was intercepted by the suspects, who were in an Innova, after which they robbed him of his vehicle at gunpoint. A search for them had been on since then,” said Harish Chandra, deputy commissioner of police, zone 2.Police officials said that on Wednesday, around 11.15pm, they received a tip-off that the some suspects ferrying looted goods were travelling in a truck near the Yamaha exit.“Barricades were set up, and the suspects asked to stop. They fled and fired at the police team near the Sector 143 Metro station. Three of the suspects were injured in the encounter, while the other four managed to flee in their SUV. They were later nabbed from near Pari Chowk, while the injured were taken to hospital,” Chandra said.Police officers said the suspects confessed to the robbery during interrogation, and that officers also recovered three countrymade pistols from the suspects, along with the Innova, the truck, 36 cooler sets, 72 cooler trolleys and 40 motors and sets of blades.“The suspects had robbed around 50 coolers, of which some have been sold. We are working on tracing them and also identifying other cases in which they were involved,” said Chandra.They were booked under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the arms act.The suspects were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/seven-robbers-arrested-following-police-encounter/story-V90QQ7YP96fcPD9GzCyIPJ.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Only one train via Chandigarh in first list||The Una to New Delhi Janshatabdi Express (2210/1435) will be the only train to run via the Chandigarh railway station from June 1, as per the first list of 100 trains released by the ministry of Indian railways, on Thursday.The Shramik special trains for migrant labourers will continue to run as per schedule.As per the ministry guideline, all passengers will be screened and only those who are asymptomatic will be allowed to board. The passengers have to reach the station at least 90 minutes in advance for screening and no linen, blankets and curtains will be provided.There are 16 stoppages between Una and New Delhi including Rupnagar, Kharar, Mohali, Chandigarh and Ambala Cantonment. The ticket booking will be done through the IRCTC website or through the mobile application. No tickets will be available at counters. Stoppages and frequency will be the same as regular trains. RAC and waiting list will be generated as per extant rule. However, those on the waiting list will not be permitted to board the train. Booking will commence from May 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/only-one-train-via-chandigarh-in-first-list/story-J3K7cj9u6xY5sYCziJbp2K.html
21-05-2020||City||Education department directs private schools to pay teachers for May and June||Bringing much relief to teachers, the district education department has categorically asked private schools in Gautam Budh Nagar to pay full salaries to their teaching staff for the months of May and June. Many teachers had feared amid the ongoing lockdown announced to halt the spread of the coronavirus disease they will not be paid salaries for two months by the schools.District inspector of schools (DIOS), Gautam Budh Nagar, Neeraj Pandey, said the schools have been allowed to collect tuition fees for the first quarter of the present fiscal, i.e. April to June. “But instead of collecting the fees for three months quarterly, the schools have been asked to collect fees on a monthly basis,” he said.He further said as per state government’s directives, the schools can’t hike the fees for the current academic year 2020-21. “They have been directed not to collect transportation charges and other miscellaneous fees for the lockdown period. Since the schools have been allowed to take tuition fees, there is no reason for them to stop the salaries of their teachers,” he said.A teacher from Delhi Public in Sector 30, who requested anonymity, said the school management has already decided to cut the salaries of the teaching staff for May and June. “Earlier, the school management had decided to make a 100% deduction in our salaries, but after the directives from the state government the school might reduce the salaries by 50 to 60%.”Social activist and member of the Centre of Indian Trade Union (CITU) Gangeshwar Dutt Sharma said it will a gross injustice to the teachers if they won’t be paid by the schools even when they have been allowed to collect fees from the students. “We have suggested the state government to treat the April-June quarter of the academic session as a zero period and the new academic session for 2020-21 should start from July 1. We suggest that no feed should be collected for this zero period. We have also suggested the government that schools should also be allowed for non-payment of the salaries to the teachers and staff for this period. Instead, the school management should give them three months’ advance and deduct the amount in 12 installments from their regular monthly salaries,” he said.Sharma also said that some private schools in Greater Noida had announced that they will not take fees for the lockdown period. “It is a welcome step. Other reputed private schools too should not collect fees for the lockdown period,” he said.Meanwhile, Kamini Bhasin, principal, Delhi Public School in Sector 30, said the school administration is yet to make a decision on reducing the salaries of their teachers and other employees. “The staff are getting their salaries on time. As far as collecting fees from students is concerned, we are following all the guidelines issued by the government,” she said.Savita Mehta, vice-president of corporate communication wing, Amity International School, said the school management has always been supportive of its employees. “We are paying salaries regularly to our staff, and they will continue to get their salaries regularly in the future as well,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/education-department-directs-private-schools-to-pay-teachers-for-may-and-june/story-weDNBuvqdeF0WqJbl6qxCM.html
21-05-2020||City||Chandigarh PGIMER nurse suicide: Citing lack of evidence police to cancel FIR||Citing lack of evidence, police is in the process of cancelling the abetment to suicide FIR registered against four PGIMER staffers after a senior nursing officer, working in PGIMER since 1998, killed herself.The 44-year-old from Nayagaon had allegedly injected herself with poison and died on May 10. Her husband said she was in distress for the past few months as four senior nurses were allegedly harassing her. The victim had also named the four nurses in her suicide note. A case under Sections 306 (abetment of suicide) of the IPC had been registered against four nurses, said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Mohali.“The suicide note was written on April 22 when the PGI nurse had first attempted suicide, but she had given an undertaking to the PGIMER, saying she would not issue any threats of suicide, after her seniors had reported the same to the medical institute. She was also being treated for depression,” said Ashok Kumar, station house officer at Nayagaon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-pgimer-nurse-suicide-citing-lack-of-evidence-police-to-cancel-fir/story-E4rjWNpWnmusPuHCapyGdK.html
21-05-2020||City||Thane fireman dies in hit-and-run||A 42-year-old fireman died in an accident on Eastern Express Highway, near Kopri bridge in Thane, on Thursday. Mangal Singh Rajput was returning home around 7.30pm on his two-wheeler after his morning shift when an unidentified truck hit his bike. He sustained severe head injuries.Santosh Kadam, chief of Regional Disaster Management Cell, said, “We received a call and immediately reached the spot with a rescue vehicle and ambulance; Naupada police officers were also at the accident site. He was taken to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital, Kalwa. But, the doctors declared him dead.”Rajput had been working with Thane Municipal Corporation’s Kopri Fire Brigade since 2003. He lived in Fire Department’s housing colony in Balkum. The Naupada police have registered a case under section 184, 134 A and B of the Motor Vehicles Act. “We have registered a case against unknown accused. The investigation is on,” said a police officer from Naupada police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-fireman-dies-in-hit-and-run/story-fCYeSdpRnw2wZIGURlkVYK.html
21-05-2020||Delhi||In the past week, Delhi got nine new containment zones, nine were de-sealed||In the last one week, Delhi witnessed sealing of nine areas as Covid-19 containment zones even as nine other sealed zones witnessed scaling down of containment efforts, government data showed.Between May 14 and Thursday, the Capital saw an increase in the number of fresh cases from 7,998 to 11,088, but the numbers pertaining to active Covid-19 cases witnessed a marginal increase from 5,034 to 5,720, suggesting a decent rate of people recovering from the disease, say experts.Active Covid-19 cases are calculated after deducting the total number of people who have recovered, discharged from hospital and deaths from the cumulative figure of fresh cases recorded.For this one week period, Delhi recorded a recovery rate of around 76 people per 100 fresh cases against the all-India average of 55 people per 100 fresh cases, data extracted from Delhi government dashboard and records of Union ministry of health showed. During the period, the death toll increased from 106 to 176, the government records showed.According to Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicines department in Safdarjung Hospital, it is a good strategy on part of the Delhi government to scale down restrictions in parts of the city where the caseload is low but also, simultaneously, sealing areas that are assessed as potential Covid-clusters.“It is clear that Covid is there to stay and the lockdown cannot be imposed indefinitely. So, regular assessment of the containment zones and other high caseload areas which can potentially qualify to be sealed as containment zones is a good strategy. Also, the data pertaining to the period (May 14-21) show good results in terms of recovery of people from the disease,” said Kishore.In the last one week the Delhi government “de-contained” sealed areas in Block 34 of Trilokpuri, Israel Camp in Rangpuri, K2 block in Nihal Vihar, Oberoi Apartment in central Delhi, G1 block in Mansarovar Garden, Lane 14 in Kalyanpuri, three lanes in D-block of Sangam Vihar, Deenpur Village and Shahjahanabad Society in Dwarka.“For scaling down containment efforts, it is mandatory that no case is recorded in a containment zone for at least 28 days. Even if one case comes up on the 27th day, the counting begins afresh,” said Rahul Singh, district magistrate (south-west).Between May 14 and 21, containment zones were added in F block of Dakshinpuri, the main road of Zamroodpur, three separate pockets in Jahangirpuri, Dhobiwali Gully in Azadpur, Chandrashekhar Azad Colony in Wazirpur Industrial Area, BB block in Shalimar Bagh and C block of Sultanpuri.“Containment zones were added only when cluster cases were recorded in certain pockets,” said B M Mishra, district magistrate (south)On Tuesday, Delhi’s health secretary Padmini Singla, sent letters to all district magistrates in which she red-flagged the fact that the number of containment zones were going down even as Covid-19 cases in the city rose exponentially.An order issued by Singla on Tuesday, which HT has seen, directed the district magistrates to reconsider fresh assessment of Covid-19 cases in their revenue districts and create containment zones “as per guidelines” of the Union health ministry if needed.Containment zones are sealed areas where residents are not allowed to venture out, they are subjected to regular screening and community testing for symptomatic people, high contact tracing, regular sanitisation, door-to-door health checks and doorstep delivery of essential goods, even as the rest of the city witnesses phased revival of business and commerce activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/in-the-past-week-delhi-got-nine-new-containment-zones-nine-were-de-sealed/story-sAVV9kutzGZAFfBq0EASAN.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Liquor to pinch a bit more with 5% Covid cess in Chandigarh||The UT administration on Thursday imposed a Covid cess of 5% on all liquor bottles (over the minimum retail price) being sold in the city.Punjab governor and UT administrator VPS Badnore gave the nod to Chandigarh municipal corporation to levy Covid cess on all categories of alcohol sold through wholesale licences. It comes into force with immediate effect and will remain effective up to December 31, 2020, or till further orders whichever is earlier.In January this year, the administration had notified cow cess at ₹5 to ₹10 per bottle on 750ml country liquor, 650ml beer and 750ml whisky, and imposed it from May 16. On the same date, the administration had also imposed an additional excise duty of 12% on alcohol. On account of additional duties and cess imposed this year, liquor prices in the city are now higher by 20% to 25% .UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida said the Covid cess will bring the administration an additional revenue of ₹18–₹20 crore. The cess has been imposed to aid necessary emergent measures for checking the epidemic. It will be remitted to MC’s special Covid cess fund by UT’s excise and taxation department. Badnore has directed that this fund be retained in a separate account till clarification from MHA is received.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/liquor-to-pinch-a-bit-more-with-5-covid-cess-in-chandigarh/story-sqSGzQzG1E99ePiUypXGcO.html
21-05-2020||City||Targeted reduction in paddy area in Punjab to save groundwater||The proposed reduction in the area to be covered under traditional water-guzzling paddy in Punjab this year due to labour shortage is likely to give some respite to already depleting groundwater table in the state.As per the target set by the state agriculture department, the department is expecting to reduce the area under paddy cultivation by at least 3 lakh hectares -- from 29.3 lakh hectares last year to 26.3 lakh hectares this year.Of the total area under paddy cultivation, 4 lakh hectare (20% more than last year) is expected to be sown with lesser water consuming direct seeding of rice (DSR) technique this year, while 7 lakh hectare is likely to be covered under basmati varieties with the onset of monsoon. Last year, 6.5 hectare area was under basmati.According to the 2019 report of the Central Ground Water Board, Punjab tops the country in over-exploitation of groundwater at 79%.Bathinda, Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar, Moga, Pathankot and Patiala are the worst-affected districts in the state.Agriculture secretary Kahan Singh Pannu said the exploitation of groundwater is a serious issue, but they are planning to save lakhs of litres of sub-soil water this year. “We are hopeful water will be saved with cooperation of farmer fraternity in achieving the set targets related to increasing area under direct seeding of rice and reducing area under paddy sown through traditional water-guzzling techniques,” Pannu said.As per the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, 2,500 to 5,500 litres of water is needed to produce a kg of rice. For one hectare of paddy field, 50-60 lakh litre water is required depending on the soil quality.However, Pannu added that the advancement of paddy sowing by 10 days this year will put extra burden on groundwater table as over 14 lakh tubewells will pump out groundwater for irrigation purposes.“But it can be compensated with planned sowing and better techniques,” he added.Due to labour shortage amid Covid-19 crisis, the state government has advanced paddy sowing season by 10 days — from June 20 to June 10.Director, agriculture, Sutantar Kumar Airi said the department is making all-out efforts to convince farmers to minimise the area under water-guzzling varieties.“At least 4 lakh hectare area is expected to be sown with DSR technique, which requires less irrigation as compared to normal transplantation. There is no need of puddling and heavy irrigation at the time of sowing under DSR,” Airi said. He added that 3 lakh hectare area will be shifted this year from paddy cultivation to cotton and maize crops, which require minimal irrigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/targeted-reduction-in-paddy-area-in-punjab-to-save-groundwater/story-G7Exzt9tbEw0ZpG3UV1JHM.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Consumer forum: Chandigarh realty firm penalised for failing to hand over plot||For failing to give possession of a plot to its owner, BCL Homes Limited, Dariya, Chandigarh, and three directors were directed by the district consumer disputes redressal forum to refund ₹7.55 lakh and pay total ₹50,000 in compensation to three city residents. Om Parkash Mittal and his wife Santosh Kumari from Sector 49-A and Satinder Garg from Sector 32-D had filed a case against the company and its directors, saying they had booked two plots of 200 sq yards each and paid the company a registration fee of ₹2.60 lakh each in May 2011.According to their complaint, at the time of payment, BCL Homes issued them letters stating that if later, they did not wish to take the plot due to any reason, they would be refunded ₹14,500 per sq yard. Also if they wished to cancel registration any time before the project launch, they would be refunded the registration amount with an additional interest of 24% per annum. However, the company never launched the project and never got in touch after receiving the amount.In October 2014, the company not only refused to allot the booked plot, but allotted a 1-BR flat in Chinar Homes, Zirakpur. The amount already paid by the three customers was adjusted against the payment of an installment of a re-allotted flat, and furthermore, the company demanded two more installments. So the three complainants paid a total of ₹7.55 lakh. Thereupon, the three moved the district consumer court stating that their hard earned money was grabbed on false promises and misrepresentations.In their reply, the company and its two directors responded, saying, “The possession of the fully developed project could not be offered on account of unforeseeable circumstances beyond their control that prevented them from fulfilling a contract.”The company also said that the complainants never approached them, as claimed in the complaint, adding that as per terms and conditions of the re-allotment, no claim of refund of the amount was to be made by the complainant.The forum observed: “We see no reason why the interest earned by opposite parties on the amount of ₹7,55,000 not be passed over to complainants. Why should it become additional profit for the opposite parties?”It directed the company and its three directors to refund ₹7.55 lakh along with interest at 9% per annum from the respective dates of deposit, till its realisation. They were also told to pay ₹50,000 in compensation for “deficiency in service” and for causing mental and physical harassment”, as well as ₹10,000 in litigation costs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/consumer-forum-chandigarh-realty-firm-penalised-for-failing-to-hand-over-plot/story-0SobFg8NPCzuks5ya0YJKK.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Education dept seeks fee details from private schools in Chandigarh||Following reports of city schools charging consolidated fee instead of tuition fee in violation of Chandigarh education department’s orders on collection of fee during the lockdown, the district education officer (DEO), Alka Mehta, has sought details from schools on fees and fund.The DEO, in a letter to the principals of all 77 unaided recognised schools of Chandigarh, has asked them to give details of annual charges along with monthly charges including tuition fee and transportation charges via email within a day.The DEO has further asked the schools to certify that they were charging only tuition fee in compliance of the department’s orders, and collecting no other charges.This comes a day after media reports that just a day after city schools were allowed to collect the tuition fees monthly, most of them had already violated the order by asking for additional fees like annual fee, hobby fee, and caution fee, calling it consolidated fee instead of tuition fee.A parent had also filed a complaint against a Sector 44-based school with the fee regulation body of Chandigarh alleging that the school was charging exorbitant fee while indulging in profiteering and commercialisation of education. The parent had also alleged that the school had increased fees by over 10% in this academic session.“The term tuition fee is vague. It is surprising that the schools have been given the liberty to declare how much proportion of the consolidated fee is tuition fee, while they are claiming that the full amount is tuition fee alone,” said Nitin Goyal, president, Chandigarh Parents’ Association.The schools have also moved the Punjab and Haryana high court challenging UT’s order, claiming that the administration had no jurisdiction to pass such an order and that under the law, there is a provision of a fee regulatory authority. The hearing is scheduled for Friday.President of Independent Schools’ Association HS Mamik said, “The details sought by the DEO are beyond her jurisdiction. The case is subjudice in the high court.” PUBLIC DEALING FOR DSE OFFICE Meanwhile, the education department has initiated the process of online confirmation for the public for an appointment with the director school education (DSE) and director higher education. The appointment has to be sought minimum two days in advance. The visitors can book an appointment by filling up the form on the department website www.chdeducation.gov.in. The visitors are expected to reach the office as per the time allocated to them so that social distancing is maintained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/education-dept-seeks-fee-details-from-private-schools-in-chandigarh/story-2bwtfFnIBg44ASKuf42FnO.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Amid lockdown, chicken, mutton get pricier by up to 40% in Chandigarh||In just two months, chicken is pricier by ₹100 and mutton by ₹200 in the city, even after prices had taken a fall due to rumours about Covid-19 spreading through poultry. Now, prices are going up due to shortage of supply and rise in demand, and are likely to rise even more.The retail price of broiler chicken, which is usually ₹200 per kg, fell to ₹130 per kg in March. While last week, retailers asked for ₹180-190 per kg, now prices have now shot up to ₹230 to ₹260 per kg. Manager of King Broilers in Sector 46, Ravinder Kumar, said prices were rising owing to shortage of live poultry. Paramjeet SIngh Chawla, proprietor of Chawla’s Chicken, said “Sale of chicken has dropped by 75% even as prices are rising. Chicken will cost even more once administration allows restaurants to open doors for dine-in.”Mutton, which available for around ₹500 per kg in March, now costs up to ₹700 per kg. Speaking of this, Ashok Kumar Nagpal, a mutton wholesaler in Sector-21 meat market, said, “People have fewer qualms eating mutton rather than chicken, due to earlier rumours associating chicken with Covid-19 and bird flu. Now, with rise in demand for mutton, wholesalers and retailers are grabbing the opportunity to make an extra buck by hiking mutton prices.” However, prices of eggs remain stable at ₹4 to ₹5 per egg, he said.As per wholesalers, the supply of chicken was down due to the hot weather and shortage of chicken feed. Deepak, a wholesale supplier of chicken from Jagatpura village in Mohali district, said, “Chicken often suffer heat strokes during summer so the supply does go down a little every summer. But this time, supply is scantier due to lockdown curbs.”Most chicken in Chandigarh is supplied from Barwala village, Haryana. Harish Mittal, CEO of SS Poultry Farm in Barwala, said several poultry farmers with small businesses had to abandon their birds leading to a shortage. “Poultry farms have been hit by the exodus of migrants enmasse and are currently short-staffed. The price of feed increased due to shortage, while income from poultry dropped amid the lockdown. This impelled farmer farmers to abandon their birds on the roads, while some even dug holes and buried them rather than watch them suffer intense hunger,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amid-lockdown-chicken-mutton-get-pricier-by-up-to-40-in-chandigarh/story-EsHA4n1turvVq0mIhkSC9O.html
21-05-2020||Delhi||L-G asks govt and other stakeholders to undertake relief measures||Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal on Thursday wrote to the Delhi government, Delhi Police, all municipal corporations and Delhi Development Authority (DDA), urging them to take relief measures so as to minimise visits to government offices. These measures include automatic renewal of various licences, a moratorium on payments and other processes that can be simplified online through innovative use of technology.In his letter to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, the L-G has suggested constituting a committee to suggest measures to help people and businesses with special focus on the protection of interests of labours.“The L-G directed the home department to take steps to explore the possibility of automatic extension of term or renewal of licences of various categories such as hotels, restaurants, guest houses, swimming pools, etc. which stand expired after 01.03.2020, taking into account safety concerns. Opening of all such establishments will be strictly governed by the guidelines issued by the Government of India,” read a statement released by the L-G office.He further advised local bodies that ongoing pending processes related to property tax, conversion charges for allowing commercial activities on mixed-use land, parking, mutation, etc., should be expeditiously completed. Baijal asked the municipal bodies to undertake day-to-day activities relating to sanitation, de-silting of drains and containment of vector-borne diseases, besides other regular works.The L-G advised the DDA to explore measures for a moratorium on payments so that EMD is not forfeited and allotment is not cancelled in this time of distress. “He further advised VC, DDA that ongoing pending processes e.g. execution of lease, conveyance deed, issuance of NOCs, layout/ completion plans; etc., should be expeditiously completed. To instil confidence in public, all ongoing and pending public projects of DDA may be given impetus and maximum public services should be made available ‘on line’,” the statement read.“Dwarka, Narela & Rohini sub-cities can be revamped with focus on attracting investment in commercial / IT / ITES / educational sectors through meticulous planning with special focus on vacant land pieces as low hanging fruits. Hon’ble LG has urged DDA to galvanize implementation of PM-UDAY, In-situ slum redevelopment, Land Pooling Policy and Transit Oriented Development,” the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/l-g-asks-govt-and-other-stakeholders-to-undertake-relief-measures/story-Y8Guk5jAijB5dtjJ9ZBfSN.html
21-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC directs financial aid for all registered construction workers||The Delhi High Court has directed the state government to send out proper communication, in the form of SMSs, to over five lakh construction workers, majority of who are yet to avail the financial aid of Rs 5,000 being given to them by authorities in view of the ongoing lockdown. The court also said that those workers whose registration has lapsed will also be entitled to the ex-gratia, but after they renew their membership.A bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Rajnish Bhatnagar said that it was essential that all registered construction workers — whose number stood at 5,39,421 as on September 30, 2018 — be sent SMSs, informing them of the government’s decision of direct transfers to their registered bank accounts, so that they could renew their registration.The bench also said that the workers should be informed about the renewal fee that needs to deposited.“The fact that the website of the Delhi Building & Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (DBCWB) is in English is certainly a matter of concern, considering the strata of the society from which the construction workforce comes from,” the court said. The court’s direction comes after advocate Shyel Trehan, who had filed an application saying the benefit of ex gratia payments should be extended to those registrants whose registration may have lapsed, and who renew their registrations.Appearing for the Delhi government, its additional standing counsel Sanjoy Ghose, told the court that as on May 12, all the registered 39,600 construction workers had received an amount of Rs 5,000. He also stated that for the purpose of verification, communications have been sent to about 7,000 employers of these construction workers, out of whom only 242 have responded.In April, the Delhi government had given Rs 5000 to 39,600 registered construction workers. On May 11, the Delhi government had announced it was going to disburse Rs 5,000 more to all the registered construction workers in the city. However, a decision regarding disbursement of the sum for next month (June) also is yet to be taken.Wednesday’s court order comes while hearing a plea by social worker Sunil Kumar Aledia, filed through advocate Shiven Verma, seeking directions to the government to provide relief to workers and labourers, including those who had registered in the last two years. Contacted, the office of labour minister Gopal Rai said the government from May 15 had already initiated the process of re-registering construction workers in Delhi through an online process.“We started this online application process because we realised that membership of majority of workers registered with DBCWB had lapsed for lack of renewal, which costs Rs 20 per year. This registration process will go on until May 25.. More than 500 people are applying daily, at present,” said an official in the minister’s office.The registration process requires an applicant to upload copies of all required documents. After May 25, the labour department will begin the verification process of the applications. Appearing for the petitioner, senior advocate Sudhir Nandrajog, told the court that as on September 30, 2018, there were 5,39,421 registered construction workers. He submitted that most of them did not renew their registration and, consequently, they have been denied the ex gratia payment.Following this, the court observed that “only a fraction of the originally registered construction workers have been able to avail of the ex gratia relief granted by the respondents (Delhi government), due to them not having renewed their registration”. “This is not a satisfactory state of affairs, and the respondents (Delhi government) are obliged to take effective steps to encourage the construction workers – who are otherwise eligible, to renew their registration — so that the intended benefit can reach them as well,” the court said.The matter would be now heard on June 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hc-directs-financial-aid-for-all-registered-construction-workers/story-0eswOfoNa8uU1FsA35dCNJ.html
21-05-2020||Delhi||App for contactless food ordering at Delhi airport, no more queuing||Keeping in mind social distancing mandates and all airlines withdrawing in-flight meal services, the Indira Gandhi International Airport on Thursday introduce a mobile phone application that will help passengers order food at the airport without having to stand in a queue or visit any counter. Apart from this, the mobile phone app will also update flyers with real-time flight status alerts, boarding gate and belt information, airport facility information, time to reach boarding gate, wait time estimates and weather at the destination, the airport operator said. The Delhi International Airport Ltd (DIAL) said it has partnered with a travel app, HOI (a Dutch word that translates to ‘Hi’ in English) to help passengers navigate through the Delhi airport seamlessly and enable them to safely order and pick up their meals at the airport.“The app has been introduced keeping in mind the mandatory protocols announced by the government to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The app allows passengers to discover outlets inside the terminal that they can order from, through their smartphones. They will receive alerts via HOI, e-mail and SMS notifications when their order is ready. The payment can be processed online,” a DIAL spokesperson said.He added that to enable contactless orders, passengers can scan a QR Code placed near outlets or directly navigate to the food and beverages catalogue using the web version of HOI.“All that the user has to do is browse the listed items, add their choice of meals to the cart, pay online and pick up their order. The user can then choose either the eat-in or the collect-at-outlet option. Passengers can avail of this facility by simply downloading the app on their android or iOS device, sign-up and add their upcoming flight’s travel details,” he said.The app also enables the user to connect to the airport’s Wi-Fi. Passengers at Hyderabad airport can also use this app.“The Delhi and Hyderabad airports are ready to operate flights from Monday as per the directive by the Ministry of Civil Aviation. Both airport operators, DIAL and GMR Hyderabad International Airport Limited (GHIAL), have left no stone unturned to create a safe and healthy environment for passengers and staff members. We have ensured frequent sanitisation of various passenger touch points, baggage and carts for the well-being of our passengers. DIAL and GHIAL will encourage passengers to maintain social distancing at the airport,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/app-for-contactless-food-ordering-at-delhi-airport-no-more-queuing/story-Gfu3SkWxcXzeYEsYp7Rj3I.html
21-05-2020||City||532-KG HEROIN HAUL: NIA gets custody of kingpin Cheetah till May 29||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday secured the custody of Ranjeet Rana, alias Cheetah, kingpin of the 532-kg heroin haul from Attari in June last year.Rana was produced before the special NIA court, Mohali, through video conferencing and was remanded in central agency’s custody till May 29.Rana was arrested on May 9 in a joint operation by NIA, Punjab Police and their Haryana counterpart from a hideout at Begu village in Sirsa district of Haryana.Rana, who has links with Hizbul Mujahideen and was involved in terror funding, had smuggled heroin and other drugs from Pakistan concealed in rock salt consignments through the integrated check-post (ICP) at the Attari border, 30 km from Amritsar.NIA had already filed a chargesheet in December last year, against all the 11 accused in the case, including six absconders, to prosecute them for narco-terrorism.The challan had said, “This is a case of narco-terrorism, having national and international implications with evidence of generation of funds through the proceeds of sale of narcotics smuggled from across the international border.”The court had granted bail to salt trader Ajay Gupta. Another accused Gurpinder Singh, 29, who owned Kanishk Enterprises — an import-export firm in Amritsar — died under mysterious circumstances in judicial custody on July 21 last year after which NIA had taken over the investigations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/532-kg-heroin-haul-nia-gets-custody-of-kingpin-cheetah-till-may-29/story-48OakumgLrS5jReRMcIvtI.html
21-05-2020||City||Peon booked for stalking, harassing woman employee at Chandimandir Cantt||A man in his early 40s working as a peon at a department in Western Command, Chandimandir Cantonment, has been booked on Thursday for stalking and harassing a woman employee of the department.Police said the accused and the victim reside in the Chandimandir Cantonment. The woman told police that the accused was following her on May 18 at 7.30pm. She said, “He forcefully pulled me towards him and I fell on the road injuring my knee. He has been stalking for quite some time.” Medical examination of the woman was conducted at Chandimandir Cantonment and at the civil hospital in Sector 6, Panchkula.The woman further alleged that the accused called on her mobile phone and she blocked him thereafter. She said the the accused then called on her office telephone for approximately eight times on May 19.Chandimandir station house officer (SHO), inspector Deepak Kumar, said they had initiated investigation and booked the accused under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 354-D (stalking) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/peon-booked-for-stalking-harassing-woman-employee-at-chandimandir-cantt/story-ECWfyZmw2aI1XyCKAOsm9J.html
21-05-2020||City||Lockdown leaves domestic helps in Chandigarh tricity high and dry||Rendered jobless amid the lockdown, Ankita, who was working as a domestic help in housing societies in Zirakpur for the past two years, is now forced to live by the road with her husband and two children in a shanty that they erected on a vacant plot on the Patiala road.“Our landlord in Badal Colony here asked us to either pay rent or vacate the house. We did not have any money, so we left. My employers gave some money and ration before asking me not to come,” says Ankita, who hails from Hardoi in Uttar Pradesh. “Chulha to bana liya par pakane ke liye kuch nahi hai, thoda dal chawal mil jata to kuch din gujara ho jata (I have made an earthen stove, but there is nothing to cook. If only we had some lentils and rice, it would have sufficed for a few days),” says Ankita, whose husband, Rohit, a labourer, has also been jobless since March 20.Similar is the plight of Kamla Rani, a native of Moradabad in UP, who has been working as a domestic help in Sector 4, Panchkula, for the past two decades. “Before the lockdown, I worked in around seven houses, but now, only two houses have called me back to work,” says Kamla, who has been putting up in Maheshpur village in Sector 21 with her husband, Suresh, who has also been sitting idle as the golf range in Sector 3, where he worked, has been shut.Even though domestic helps are ready to work, they are denied entry by most housing societies in the tricity owing to fear of contracting coronavirus infection. Sarojni, a domestic help who hails from Bihar and stays in Baltana, Mohali, has taken to selling vegetables. “Had there been jobs in Bihar, why would we have to leave our home? If we go back, we will starve there too,” she says. AUTHORITIES LEAVE IT TO PEOPLEEven though there are no restrictions on the working of maids, the authorities are leaving the matter to “individual decision”. “They (domestic helps) can work just like any self-employed person, such as plumbers and electricians,” says Girish Dayalan, deputy commissioner, Mohali.However, Panchkula sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Dheeraj Chahal says, “The working of maids is to be discouraged, but is not completely banned either. It is for the RWAs and individuals to take the call, keeping health protocols in mind.”Meanwhile, Chandigarh councillor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu says: “Most people in my area have allowed domestic helps to work, but some senior citizens have raised concern.”RESIDENT BODIES DIVIDEDWhile Rupinder Singh Kang, a resident of Aerocity, Mohali, says a few people in his locality have allowed the maids to come to work after following all precautions, SK Wadhawan, a member of confederation of residents’ welfare associations (RWAs), Zirakpur, says they have decided not to allow domestic helps in till the lockdown is lifted.Surinder Sharma, a member of Chandigarh’s Sector 15 RWA, adds that only 50% of the houses in the sector have allowed maids to work daily. However, RP Malhotra, president, federation of residents’ associations, Panchkula, says there should be a ban on entry of domestic helps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-leaves-domestic-helps-in-chandigarh-tricity-high-and-dry/story-nBGHiKhhPGhdKnnxZJChEK.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Harsimrat urges Centre to alter alignment of Delhi-Katra expressway to link Amritsar||Union food processing industries minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Thursday requested the Union road transport and highways ministry to amend the alignment of the Delhi-Amritsar-Katra expressway project to provide a new expressway connection between Delhi and Amritsar, besides creating a Sikh religious circuit by aligning the proposed expressway with the shrines at Sultanpur Lodhi, Khadoor Sahib, Goindwal Sahib and Tarn Taran.In a letter to Union minister Nitin Gadkari, Harsimrat requested the union minister to intervene, saying she had received many representations from residents of Amritsar as well as Sikhs across the country urging for better connectivity to Amritsar and other Sikh shrines under the proposed expressway. This would also give an impetus to economic development of the area, she said.The minister said the present expressway project provided for upgrading the existing NH-3 from Kartarpur to Amritsar and establishment of new expressway connectivity to the Rajasansi airport even as the expressway took a separate route from Kartarpur to pass through Qadian and Gurdaspur before entering Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/harsimrat-urges-centre-to-alter-alignment-of-delhi-katra-expressway-to-link-amritsar/story-WDOs8Izsi4AAbTwdOa0WCJ.html
21-05-2020||Mumbai||State includes 2,092 villages in Western Ghats eco-sensitive area||The Maharashtra government on Thursday included more villages in its proposed final Western Ghats eco-sensitive area (ESA) notification, but has excluded previously identified villages falling in crucial wildlife corridors, sanctuary buffer areas and near tiger reserves.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray submitted the proposal for Maharashtra during a video-conference with Union minister for environment, forest and climate change Prakash Jawadekar on Thursday. “After the ESA for the Western Ghats is announced, curbs will be imposed on certain activities like hydropower projects, certain industries, mining, thermal power plants and large-scale constructions will be prohibited,” the CM’s Office tweeted.On October 3, the Centre had proposed the draft ESA across 56,825 sq km spanning across six states, covering 37% of the Western Ghats. Of this, 17,340 sq km was marked in Maharashtra, covering 2,133 villages.The state’s final proposal requests the Centre to include 2,092 of 2,133 villages or 15,359 sq km of the originally proposed 17,340 sq km, thereby excluding 11.4% of the draft ESA area, said state forest minister Sanjay Rathod.“From 2,133 villages, we requested the exclusion of 388 that fall in areas with high industrial and mining potential. However, we also requested the Centre to add 347 more villages that are falling within and around wildlife sanctuaries or protected zones that need to be safeguarded, and were left out in the draft,” said Rathod.“We requested the Centre to support all 2,092 villages with additional funds since development will be restricted after ESA declaration,” he added.The minister said the Centre’s final nod was still awaited.Thackeray said, “Our priority is the environment while achieving development. We want consistency to be maintained in the eco-sensitive zones in the area.”The list of 388 villages, excluded from the original draft, was accessed by HT. The entire Dodamarg taluka was not considered for ESA declaration, nine out of 13 originally ESA villages in Sawantwadi and Banda talukas were excluded for mining potential. Dodamarg-Sawantwadi belt forms a crucial elephant and tiger corridor in south Konkan. “This is in violation of a Bombay high court’s (HC) order to declare the entire corridor an ESA. The state is negotiating the safety of eco-fragile zones subverting orders of the judiciary,” said Stalin D, one of the petitioners in the matter.Rathod said final decision on the Dodamarg-Sawantwadi belt will be reconsidered. “We are aware of the HC order and the matter will be placed before the CM for final decision,” he said.Also, Savarde village in the core zone of Radhanagari Wildlife Sanctuary in Kolhapur, Maloshi and Bamnoli villages in Koyna Wildlife Sanctuary in Satara, and Yelan Gai marked as mining village in the buffer area of the Sahayadri Tiger Reserve among others, were all excluded.“This has remained a controversial issue ever since the 2011 Madhav Gadgil committee report. The state needs to ensure biodiversity is not compromised while finalising ESA boundaries,” said Kishor Rithe, former member of National Board for Wildlife.WHAT IS AN ESA?Declaring an area as ESA means putting restriction on mining, quarrying, thermal power plants, setting up of industries and construction to ensure buffer areas of a protected zone, in this case, the Western Ghats, remains protected.(With inputs from Surendra Gangan)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-wants-2-092-villages-in-eco-sensitive-zone-but-excludes-wildlife-corridors/story-hL2VRohgOjnJEr0qectZtO.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||3 health programmes launched in Haryana||Three health-related programmes — H1N1 vaccination campaign for healthcare workers, Hepatitis-B control programme and eye donation centres at 21 district hospitals of the state — were launched by Haryana additional chief secretary, health, Rajeev Arora, on Wednesday.Free-of-cost Hepatitis-B screening, diagnosis and treatment would now be available to the people of the state, an official release stated.Arora said in the first phase of Hepatitis-B control programme, newborns, pregnant women and inmates in state jails would be covered. He said health workers fall in the high-risk category and require special attention. Around 13,000 health workers across the state would be vaccinated in this campaign, he added.Dr Usha Gupta, director, health services, said free screening, diagnosis and treatment was being provided for Hepatitis-C patients at all general hospitals across the state which would now be available for Hepatitis B patients as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/3-health-programmes-launched-in-haryana/story-UglDV2UXK4RTR1VV0TKiyL.html
21-05-2020||Lucknow||Akhilesh promises 1 lakh to girl who rode from Delhi to Dharbangha||Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday promised to give Rs 1 lakh to a girl whose picture showing how she is riding her injured father from Delhi to Darbangha on her bicycle went viral.Tweeting the picture of a girl with her injured father riding pillion on her bicycle, Akhilesh wrote: “This 15-year-old girl is carrying her injured father on the bicycle and riding from Delhi to Darbangha. The government has failed her, but she is courageous. The women in the country and we are with her. We salute her courage and we will send Rs 1 lakh to her.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/akhilesh-promises-1-lakh-to-girl-who-rode-from-delhi-to-dharbangha/story-DkmPXmDQvsuS3OY3nV3YMN.html
21-05-2020||City||2 Cong sarpanches among 4 booked for killing ex-sarpanch in Amritsar||Four persons, including two sarpanches, have been booked for allegedly killing a former sarpanch in Ballarwal village of Ajnala subdivision in the district, police said on Thursday. The deceased was identified as Maur Singh, 55, of the same village. The accused have been identified as Punnan Singh, sarpanch of Baba Gamchak Abadi in Ballarwal village; Beant Singh, sarpanch of Soahn Singh Abadi in Ballarwal village; and Shindi and her son Sonu of Sohan Singh Abadi. Ajnala SHO inspector Satish Kumar, said Ballarwal village has four panchayats. “Both Punnan Singh and Beant Singh owe allegiance to the ruling Congres. Even the former sarpanch who was killed was a Congress worker,” he said. The case has been registered on the complaint of the deceased’s son-in-law Malkiat Singh, of Sarangdev Channa village. “My father-in-law had been in illegal relationship with his brother-in-law’s wife Shindi for last 25 years. On Wednesday, at around 2 pm, Maur Singh had gone to meet Shindi at her home in the same village. I got a call from one Jagir Singh of the same village informing me that my father-in-law was being beaten by the four accused,” he said in the complaint.He added, “When I and Jagir Singh reached outside Shindi’s home, we saw Punnan Singh and Beant Singh coming out. When we went inside the home, we found Shindi and her son changing the clothes of my father-in-law, who was lying in a bed in an unconscious condition. After seeing us, Shindi and her son Sonu fled. We immediately rushed Maur Singh to a private hospital in Ajnala, where he was declared brought dead.”The SHO said they have registered a case against the accused under Sections 302 (murder) and 120 (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. Meanwhile, the deceased’s nephew Baljit Singh alleged that both the sitting sarpanches had been keeping a grudge against his uncle since the last panchayat polls.According to Malkiat Singh, Maur Singh remained sarpanch of Baba Gamchak Abadi for one term (from 2013-18). “In 2018 panchayat polls, my uncle was defeated by Punnan Singh,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-cong-sarpanches-among-4-booked-for-killing-ex-sarpanch-in-amritsar/story-IQE2IBwzGGwI5Snwxijo3I.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Six held for not wearing masks in Chandigarh||Six people were arrested for stepping out of their houses without wearing masks on Wednesday.Police said three cases were registered in the IT Park area, two in Mauli Jagran and one in Sector 34 police station.Police said people violating the mandatory safety norms were booked under Section 188 (disobedience of orders duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and later released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/six-held-for-not-wearing-masks-in-chandigarh/story-IQohO2VxfJXsn9TzERjvhO.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Sangrur tomb attendant sets woman on fire, held||An elderly woman was allegedly set on fire by a tomb attendant (sewadar) at Chhajali village in Sangrur district on Wednesday.Police arrested the accused, Balbir Singh (70), and produced him in court which sent him to three-day remand on Thursday.The police said the victim, Sukhwinder Kaur (68), had gone to pay obeisance at the tomb where the accused has been serving as an attendant for the past six months.“The accused got into a heated argument with the woman over locking the tomb and allegedly poured petrol on her before setting her on fire. She was admitted to the Sunam civil hospital,” said Chhajali police station in-charge Joginder Singh.The accused was booked under Sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code at the Chhajali police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sangrur-tomb-attendant-sets-woman-on-fire-held/story-G7G0OI8vLGo5n4SLOIuuDJ.html
21-05-2020||City||Air India flight to bring NRIs from Ukraine to Chandigarh airport||Under the Air India’s evacuation plan, the first flight will bring non-resident Indians (NRIs) stuck in Ukraine at the Chandigarh International Airport on Friday. The flight will arrive from Ukraine via Delhi to Chandigarh at 1:30pm and depart at 2:30pm. Confirming the same, a Chandigarh International Airport Limited (CHIAL) spokesperson, however, said the number of passengers and their details were undisclosed.As per the schedule, there will be four flights (two arrival + two departures) operating on Friday and May 30 to/from Chandigarh International Airport. The May 30 flight will bring NRIs from USA via Delhi to Chandigarh at 10:05am, and depart to Delhi at 10:45am from Chandigarh.Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said all returnees will be quarantined, either at paid accommodation or at their homes, as per their choice. “We have already arranged for their screening at the airport and those found with symptoms will be isolated whereas asymptomatic cases will be quarantined for 14 days,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/air-india-flight-to-bring-nris-from-ukraine-to-chandigarh-airport/story-AmZ0T02CdRdD5EPaM0CdpJ.html
21-05-2020||City||Parents cry foul as Patiala pvt school asks for admission fee from Class 11 students||District education officer (DEO) secondary Harinder Kaur will seek an explanation from British Coed High School in the city after it sent repeated messages to parents of students in Class 11 to pay up fee under the heads of annual fee; admission fee; library fee; calendar and Christmas fee etc, in addition to the entire tuition fee of the first quarter (April, May and June months). The school had asked for Rs 45,400 to be deposited by May 21 (Thursday) and some parents told HT it had also started online classes of some students who did pay up from Wednesday. The school had 50 admitted 50 students in Class 11. The Punjab government, however, has stipulated that school cannot charge any fee except for the tuition fee during the lockdown period. The guidelines also say that even after the pandemic situation improves and heads towards normalcy, a month would be provided to parents for deposit of the fee.“I have received complaints against British Coed High School on Thursday evening. I will seek explanation from school from Friday and will take action,” said the DEO. Mrs Kiren Harika, executive principal of the school, did not respond to repeated calls and messages. Punjab education minister Vijay Inder Singla said, “I will immediately look into the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/parents-cry-foul-as-patiala-pvt-school-asks-for-admission-fee-from-class-11-students/story-2Pe98iBMwkHeO1Sz0twQFO.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown, labour crisis hit construction of 2 PGIMER mega projects in Chandigarh||The construction of two mega projects of Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research has taken a hit due to the lockdown and unavailability of labourers.The projects – Advanced Neurosciences Centre, and Mother and Child Health Care Centre — are coming up on the Sector 12 campus of institute at estimated costs of ₹495.31 crore and ₹485 crore, respectively. “The construction work has restarted but is not as fast as it was going on before the lockdown was announced,” said Kumar Gaurav Dhawan, ‎deputy director, PGIMER. “We are satisfied with the pace of construction of the neurosciences centre while the planning for the mother and child health care centre is underway. However, due to lockdown restrictions and non-availability of labourers, the construction was hit for almost two months and we are hopeful that we will cover the loss once normalcy returns,” Dhawan said.Labour crisis has also affected the construction work of PGIMER’s satellite centre in Sangrur. “We have taken up the matter with the district authorities in Sangrur and they have assured us the necessary support,” Dhawan added. PROJECTS FOR ADVANCED CAREThe mother and child care centre is a 300-bed unit for improving obstetric and neonatal tertiary care. The plan includes neonatal intensive care unit with advanced services, foetal medicine unit, robotic surgery, human milk bank, advanced infertility services and reproductive endocrinology. The centre will also act as a skill training centre for health professionals and is expected to contribute to bringing down prenatal and neonatal mortality rates in the region.The neurosciences centre, also a 300-bed facility, will help offer timely, affordable and advanced treatment for neurological and neuroscience disorders. With a number of operation theatres (OTs), intensive care units (ICUs) and ventilators, the centre will have additional facilities such as ‘brain suite’, mapping, invasive neurophysiological techniques and advanced imaging technology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lockdown-labour-crisis-hit-construction-of-2-pgimer-mega-projects-in-chandigarh/story-IgmZpCJSJeN1f6YNxm0YfI.html
21-05-2020||City||Sacked Safai Karamcharis protest in Kurukshetra, removed by police||As many as 70 sacked contractual safai karamcharis who had been protesting against the management of Kurukshetra Development Board (KDB) for two days, were removed by police on Thursday.The sweepers, who were deputed to clean religious places in Kurukshetra, accused the KDB of taking their jobs during the crisis. They demanded that their services should be restored as they are unable to feed their children.Kurukshetra deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Ajay Rana said, “The Safai Karamcharis had been protesting outside the KDB office for two-three days. On Thursday, we removed them as they refused to end the protest despite repeated requests.”Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) leader Yogesh Sharma, who was leading the protesters, accused the KDB management of misleading the sweepers by making false promises. “These workers should be re-appointed without any delay,” he said.“Our prime minister was seen washing the feet of the sweepers, but here, our job was taken, leaving us with nothing”, said a protestor.However, KDB chief executive officer Gagandeep Singh said, “The sweepers are not associated with the KDB. They are contractual employees working with Sulabh International, which has been given the contract of cleanliness at the religious places in Kurukshetra and surrounding areas. But now the contract has been given to the Radha Krishan Society, who had reduced their strength.”A top-level official from the KDB said that the new contractor has agreed to reappoint 30 of the sacked workers, but they were adamant with their demand that all 70 of them should be reappointed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sacked-safai-karamcharis-protest-in-kurukshetra-removed-by-police/story-8eKrd6sP3qg5eoaIEbe45N.html
21-05-2020||Lucknow||Leader of oppn seeks UP speaker’s intervention in release of Azam, kin||After appeals to the government failed to elicit response, the leader of opposition in Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly Ram Govind Chaudhary on Thursday wrote to UP assembly speaker requesting him to intervene and help SP leaders Azam Khan, wife Tazeen Fatima and son Abdullah Azam Khan get released from jail on parole.While Azam is the Member of Parliament from Rampur, his wife Tazeen is MLA from Rampur assembly seat.Son Azam Abdullah was elected MLA from Suar seat in Rampur but was disqualified over his age controversy.All three are in Sitapur jail since March end.The three are in jail over a case of forgery in Abdullah’s birth certificate submitted with his election affidavit. The Allahabad High Court had set aside Abdullah’s election. However, Chaudhary still mentioned Abdullah Azam Khan as MLA in the letter to the Speaker.Chaudhary wrote: “The health of Tazeen Fatima is bad. She had hip surgery and pus formation has happened due to lack of care. Then she had her arm fractured after a fall in the jail. Her arm is in plaster and she is in immense pain and suffering. She is ill and elderly and is susceptible to Covid-19 as the cases are rising in jails. We wrote to the chief minister also but nothing has come out of it so far. I plead you for the release of Azam Khan and his family from the jail considering their health and the holy month of Ramzan so that they can observe Ramzan at home.”He reminded the speaker that all over the country the governments are releasing prisoners over the Covid-19 scare and Supreme Court order on it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/leader-of-oppn-seeks-up-speaker-s-intervention-in-release-of-azam-kin/story-XQXdGcoyZJfeZVXdMKthVO.html
21-05-2020||City||Taloja factory catches fire, no one injured||A minor fire broke out at a chemical factory in Taloja on Thursday. The factory was shut and so no one was injured, said police.The fire broke out at New Chemicals Zone. “The fire was doused within an hour. There was nobody inside as the factory was shut. The fire brigade report will reveal if the fire was due to short circuit or heat,” said Kashinath Chavan, senior inspector at Taloja police station.The fire did not spread to other building, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/taloja-factory-catches-fire-no-one-injured/story-RVrhsaQwQk5l8k9OVWBEQO.html
21-05-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram reports first Covid-19 death of resident||The city on Thursday reported the first Covid-19 death of a Gurugram resident. A 33-year-old man, identified as Muhammed Raza, a resident of Sector 53, died at PGIMS, Rohtak. Raza, who was a tuberculosis patient, had tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that leads to coronavirus disease) on May 18, after he was referred from Civil Hospital, Sector 10, due to his deteriorating health.Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer (CMO), said that on May 17, Raza visited Civil Hospital, complaining about breathlessness and cough for two to three days. “He was a patient of tuberculosis and his X-Ray report showed that he had pneumonitis. He was at the Civil Hospital for 40-45 minutes and was immediately referred to Rohtak for tertiary care.” He said that Raza was a suspected Covid-19 case at that time. “We took his samples on the same day (May 17), when he was referred to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak. On May 18, he was confirmed Covid-19 positive and died on May 20. It is the first Covid-19 death of Gurugram.”Two other Covid-19 suspected patients, who were referred from Civil Hospital, also died at PGIMS Rohtak, but they tested Covid-19 negative.Muhammed Haroon (38), a resident of Hari Naga, was admitted in Civil Hospital after he complained of fever, cough and breathlessness. His nasal and throat samples were taken on May 16 and was referred to Rohtak for tertiary care. On May 17, his Covid-19 tests, done by a private lab, came out positive. Later, however, on May 18, PGIMS Rohtak confirmed him to be negative. “He died on May 19,” said Punia.Another patient, 48-year-old Radhe Shayam, a resident of Mohammedpur, was also referred to Rohtak on May 17 after his health deteriorated. On May 13, he visited Civil Hospital complaining of fever and cough. He was advised to remain under home quarantine. He visited the out-patient department again on May 15. The following day, he started exhibiting symptoms, such as diarrhoea and high-grade fever. He was admitted to Civil Hospital and was referred to Rohtak on May 17. “He died on Wednesday but was Covid-19 negative.”Also, 12 new cases were reported on Thursday from areas, such as Jawahar Nagar, Dundahera, sectors 10A, 54, 7, and Chanderlok area. The total number of infected persons in Gurugram has reached 239, including one death. A total of 99 patients are hospitalised, while 140 have been discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-reports-first-covid-19-death-of-resident/story-QGH5VyFuix07GHZZJhEC6K.html
21-05-2020||Lucknow||UP: One held after woman accuses two of raping, blackmailing her for months||One person was arrested after a woman filed complaint alleging rape against two named persons in Sarsawa police station area of Saharanpur, said police on Thursday.In her complaint, registered on Tuesday, the woman and her husband alleged that Abhishek and Swaraj raped the woman in January. “The duo also filmed the incident and had been blackmailing her since,” said the complaint.On Tuesday night she filed a police complaint.Police said that while one of the accused Abhishek, 35, was arrested on Tuesday itself while Swaraj, 35, is on the run.Ashok Solanki, station house officer, Sarsawa police station said, “In her complaint, the woman and her husband claim that in January she was raped by Abhishek and Swaraj. They also filmed the incident and used to blackmail her. The woman alleged since January she was raped multiple times by the two accused who also used to blackmail her.”Meanwhile, the accused also circulated the video in the area, said cops. Police said the woman works as a house help in the village. In January while she was searching for work, the two accused took her to a house on pretext of searching a job for her. They raped her and filmed the incident. They used the video to blackmail her and had raped her multiple times since then. Few days ago, woman narrated her ordeal to her husband due to which the accused circulated the video in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-one-held-after-woman-accuses-two-of-raping-blackmailing-her-for-months/story-VJywOzN4t5BtfbGtlN9S1H.html
21-05-2020||City||Panvel residents want Ganesh Deshmukh back as civic chief||Two days after the Panvel civic chief was transferred, residents have written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to bring Ganesh Deshmukh back.Ulhasnagar civic commissioner Sudhakar Deshmukh is the new commissioner of Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC). Kantilal Kadu, president of Panvel Sangharsh Samiti, said, “Ganesh Deshmukh was doing good work in containing the spread of Covid-19.” Deshmukh took the charge a Panvel municipal commissioner in April 2018. “He ensured that social distancing is followed during lockdown and violators are punished. The virus was controlled in the slum pockets of Panvel. At this juncture, it was unfair to transfer him and we want him to be reinstated as Panvel civic commissioner,” said Kadu.Manohar Shinde, 40, a Kharghar resident, said, “Ganesh Deshmukh was taking measures to improve garbage collection too. He was handling the coronavirus outbreak efficiently.”Many activists have joined residents in demanding reinstating Ganesh Deshmukh.“There has been no evidence of community spread of Covid-19 even in the slum pockets of the city,” said Deepak Singh, a Kharghar activist, who too has written to the Chief Minister’s Office to bring back Ganesh Deshmukh.“He got in touch with NGOs and individuals to ensure that all migrants have food during lockdown,” said Singh.Panvel MLA Prashant Thakur too has opposed the transfer. “Deshmukh has been targeted and his transfer is politically motivated. He was doing good work to contain the disease in the PCMC area. He should be brought back to the city,” said Thakur.Ganesh Deshmukh, who is now additional commissioner of Thane Municipal Corporation, said, “I am really moved by the residents’ gesture but I have taken over my new responsibility.”In 2018, Panvel residents had protested over the transfer of the then municipal commissioner Sudhakar Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panvel-residents-want-ganesh-deshmukh-back-as-civic-chief/story-FTtHrs2HWdFDQD72HTAPrK.html
21-05-2020||City||AIIMS Bathinda construction to be further hit as 50% labourers go home||With nearly 50% (800) of 1,600 migrant workers involved in the construction of Indoor Patient Departments (IPDs), residential and teaching blocks at the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Bathinda, going back to their native states, the opening of these facilities may be indefinitely delayed. Originally, these services were to start from November this year. Officials say there is only half of the usual workforce at the construction site on the Dabwali Road these days, with the labourers returning to Bihar, West Bengal, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh. A visit to the site on Thursday showed work was on, but at a slow pace. A senior functionary of the private firm undertaking the work said construction had been pushed back by at least six months, as several other migrant workers had announced that they would go back. “The district administration has given strict instructions that those wanting to leave for their native places will not be asked to stay back. Due to the pandemic, skilled workers from other states are not keen to join work. We have no option than to wait and watch till the pandemic eases,” said the official, who is not authorised to speak to the media.“Due to the lockdown, supply of fly ash, an important construction ingredient, produced from coal-based thermal power generation plants had dropped significantly,” said another official of the construction firm.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the foundation stone of the AIIMS project on November 25, 2016 and classes for the first batch of MBSS started from August 26 last year at the institute’s temporary campus in Faridkot-based Guru Gobind Singh Medical College, which is under Baba Farid University of Health Sciences. Outpatient department (OPD) services were started on December 23.Medical superintendent Dr Satish Gupta, who is also the dean, expressed his reservations on whether all healthcare services, including IPD, trauma and emergency services can commence from November this year. “We are reviewing arrangements to see if MBBS classes for the forthcoming batch can be started from September onwards at the Bathinda campus. Student hostel is almost complete and classes may be started, as a temporary measure, from the OPD block. We are assessing the situation,” said Gupta. On Thursday, another group of about 30 workers were ready to go to UP on a special bus. Radhey Sharma from UP’s Maharajganj and Vikas from Girdih in Jharkhand said their jobs were safe and contractors provided them with dry ration during the lockdown.“We wish to be with our families and we would like to resume work in Bathinda when the pandemic crisis is over,” said another worker Aryan.Deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said besides special trains to Bihar and Jharkhand, 4-5 buses with workers from AIIMS sites had left for Bihar and West Bengal. He added there had been no complaint of non-payment of wages at AIIMS sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aiims-bathinda-construction-to-be-further-hit-as-50-labourers-go-home/story-CZ4fJL2LVpqIQMSh8QGCUN.html
21-05-2020||Gurugram||Government schools to open for administrative work, SOP issued||The directorate of education on Thursday released the standard operating procedure (SOP) for government schools which are now allowed to open to carry administrative work.According to the guidelines issued to all district education officers and school principals on Thursday, all administrative work needs to be done within the usual school timings while complying with physical distancing norms. Parents who might visit schools with admission-related queries also need to be given an audience to while abiding by social distancing rules. All employees reporting to work are mandatorily required to wear masks and wash hands with soap or use hand sanitiser.School principals have been allowed to call any teacher for work related to admissions, distribution of books, mid-day meals, among others. Teachers with disabilities, pregnant teachers, and those suffering from chronic ailments will be excused for absence. Schools heads have also been asked to ensure that school premises are sanitised and office furniture is disinfected before the resumption of work.Schools have also been asked to convene the first meeting of the school management committee within the first week of opening. Strategies pertaining to the admission process and minimising dropout rates will be discussed during the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/government-schools-to-open-for-administrative-work-sop-issued/story-I6dAW6gh2oer6Vry36zHgP.html
21-05-2020||Gurugram||MDU issues examination, vacation schedule for city colleges||Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU), Rohtak, to which three government colleges in the city are affiliated, released a tentative schedule for vacations and examinations on Wednesday. As per the schedule, summer vacation for colleges will start from June 1 till June 30, unless there are any changes made by the state government with respect to lockdown guidelines. Terminating semester examinations will take place from July 1 onwards, as per the schedule.“The summer vacations will take place from 1 June till 30 June or as per instructions received from the state government, if there is any change,” states the notification issued by MDU.However, so far, there is no clarity on how exams will be conducted. Officials in the university, however, said that holding online examination seemed difficult and in all likelihood, offline examination will be conducted. Pooja Khullar, principal of Dronacharya Government College, said that all colleges affiliated to MDU are supposed to abide by the schedule issued for the semester, unless there is any new development or change in the state policy. “The controller of examination has told us that the schedule issued will be followed unless there is another development with respect to lockdown guidelines. We have also been told that there will be no online exams and there is a possibility of holding exams with physical distancing in July for students who are in the final semester or those who need to reappear,” said Khullar. She added that specific directions regarding the July examinations were awaited.Satyamanyu Yadav, principal of Government College in Sector 9, said that examinations would be conducted for students in their final years in July as per MDU’s notification. “So far, we have been told that exams will be conducted only for final year students in different courses in July. The notification has been shared with teachers, who have been asked to ensure that all students are made aware of the vacation and examination schedule,” said Yadav. ML Batra, assistant registrar, MDU, said that more details and rules pertaining to examinations were expected to be out by next week. “The possibility of conducting examination online is less. In all likelihood, it might take place in the physical setup by practising norms of social distancing, but there is no final word as of now. We are abiding by the UGC guidelines and more clarity on ways of conducting examination should emerge in due course of time,” said Batra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mdu-issues-examination-vacation-schedule-for-city-colleges/story-Im34jbejB3NfIDcILE1RhI.html
21-05-2020||Gurugram||MCG seals 43 under-construction buildings at nine locations||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) sealed 43 under-construction buildings across nine locations in its zone 2 area, officials said Thursday.As per MCG officials, a few of the buildings had been sealed prior to the nationwide lockdown and their seal had been illegally removed by violators during the lockdown.Between May 18 and 21, MCG officials sealed buildings at Mianwali Colony, Ashok Vihar Phase 2, Ashok Vihar 3, Palam Vihar Extension, Noble Enclave, Dharam Colony, Pawala Khusroopur, New Palam Vihar, and Nihal Colony.“On the directions of the MCG commissioner, enforcement teams have been formed in every MCG zone for both preventing and taking action against unauthorised constructions. This is an ongoing process and more such actions will be taken this month,” SS Rohilla, public relations officer (PRO), MCG, said.As per MCG officials, around 15 of the 43 buildings had been sealed before, yet violators had resumed construction there. Officials said that legal action is being initiated against the violators under sections 188 and 448 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant and trespassing, respectively) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Incidentally, the MCG started surveying and identifying illegal buildings on the same day it discovered that an illegal six-storey building was being constructed in Pragati Vihar in DLF Phase 4 despite the MCG sealing it twice before.In February, based on a complaint of the MCG, 106 people were booked by the police for illegally occupying buildings in the 900-metre radius of the Indian Air Force (IAF) ammunition depot in Sector 14 that had been sealed by the MCG before. The MCG had started sealing these buildings since 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-seals-43-under-construction-buildings-at-nine-locations/story-ORvsQVLHLchujaWLvZuDrM.html
21-05-2020||Gurugram||Migrants who paid ₹5,000 each for journey home to West Bengal stranded midway||Mohammed Rafiq, a migrant worker from West Bengal, sold his ring, mobile phone and his wife’s gold chain to raise money to return to his home town. He paid ₹8,000 in advance to an agent who promised to ferry him and his family to West Bengal for a total of ₹20,000. On Tuesday late night, when they were on their way in a bus with other migrant workers, a team of police personnel stopped them near Sarai village in New Palam Vihar and told them they can’t go further as the bus driver did not have a movement pass.On Wednesday, the police booked four men and the bus driver for allegedly collecting money from migrant workers to ferry them to their home towns in West Bengal.“I have not earned anything since the day lockdown was implemented. For weeks, I had been waiting for a way to get out of here and go to my home town. Recently, I got in touch with an agent who agreed to take us to our home in a bus for ₹5,000 per passenger. I immediately arranged the money,” Rafiq said. Rafiq, who has a four-year-old son and a six-year-old daughter, used to work as a daily wager in Gurugram.As migrant workers, whose source of income has dried up due to the lockdown, are trying all possible ways to return to their home states, instances of them being cheated by agents promising them safe journeys have been on the rise. In most cases, agents, bus drivers or truck drivers, are charging them between ₹2,300 and ₹5,000 for ferrying them to their home states, without the requisite passes. At least four such incidents have been reported in May, so far.Mahbub ul Haq, one of the migrants was making his way back home on Tuesday, said, “There were around 27 persons, including women and children, from whom the men had taken ₹5,000 each for the journey. They informed us that they have all the necessary documents for inter-state travel. Around 11.30pm on Tuesday, we reached Sarai Allwardi village near the Dwarka Expressway, from where a bus picked us up. As soon as we began travelling, a team of police personnel intercepted the vehicle.”“The police left us on the road and went away, despite there being women and children, as young as seven-month-olds, with us. They did not even arrest the bus driver. I had taken a loan of ₹25,000 at 10% interest in order to return to my home town in West Bengal. I have not earned anything since the lockdown started,” Mahbub said. He said that they were stranded at the spot for the whole night, until the police reached the spot again around 6am on Wednesday. However, the police denied the allegation and said that the migrant workers did not want to go to a relief camp. Mahbub and his family are currently staying at a construction site in K-block, South City-1.Mool Chand, sub-inspector (SI), Bajghera police station, said, “As per the protocol, we had asked the migrant workers and their families to shift to a relief camp. However, they did not want to shift. The accused are yet to be arrested. We are investigating the matter.”A case was registered under sections 118 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act at Bajghera police station on Wednesday.Last week, the police had arrested two men in Ashok Vihar Phase-3, who had allegedly collected ₹1.25 lakh from 53 migrant workers for ferrying them to West Bengal. Similar incidents were reported at the Sector 14 and Sector 5 police stations earlier in the month.Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “Whenever such incidents have come to light, we have taken swift action and arrested the accused persons. The administration has been providing buses and trains for the migrant workers to return to their home states and towns.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/migrants-who-paid-5-000-each-for-journey-home-to-west-bengal-stranded-midway/story-GxXLql3RccyFOYlWReqO3K.html
21-05-2020||City||Provide food or send us home, 150 stuck migrants appeal to district administration||Gurugram A group of daily wage earners, currently dependent on help from residents in Sector 23, have appealed to the district administration to provide them with dry ration at the earliest or arrange for their travel home.The daily wagers, around 150 in number, claimed that after a nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25 to check the spread of Covid-19, they lost their source of incomes. Ever since then, they have been surviving hand to mouth, mostly dependent on the residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) and other citizens’ and non government organizations for their daily meals. The group said that they live at Carterpuri and Mulahera areas and often end up sleeping in a park in the area.Most of these daily wagers belong to Bihar. After the lockdown was imposed, the district administration appointed nodal authorities for food distribution – both dry food and cooked meal.Manju Devi, who worked as a maid and whose husband worked as a construction labourer, said, “We gave our Aadhaar numbers to some officials and they assured us that they were noting down our name to make a list of people to whom dry food — such as rice, flour, pulses — will be distributed. We have no idea who they (the officials) were but we have not received any dry ration so far.”In the government’s absence, the RWA members of Sector 23-A have been helping these workers by providing them with meals twice daily.“I am a rickshaw puller. My son is a construction labourer and my wife works as maid. My son has two children. We all live in two small rooms at Carterpuri. Before the lockdown, we managed to earn Rs 15,000 to Rs 20,000 thousand a month. But after the lockdown, our incomes dried up. We have a hand to mouth existence as of now. We have not paid rent to our landlord for three months. We go to a temple at Sector 23-A twice a day to collect cooked meal with the help of local RWA and some other Good Samaritans. We hope the administration provides us dry ration soon, so that we can cook for ourselves,” said Sitaram Das, tone of the daily wage earners. On Wednesday, the RWA members wrote a letter to deputy commissioner (DC), Gurugram, Amit Khatri, seeking his intervention and demanding a probe as to why these daily wagers were not provided with ration despite a survey having been done in April..“We have also raised this issue repeatedly on WhatsApp group created by 15 different RWAs of city. There has been no response from the officials so far. If a survey has been done, then they should be provided dry food packets. How long will they have to beg and stand in line at temple sites?,” said Neeru Yadav, RWA president of Sector 23-A.Contacted, deputy commissioner Khatri said he was looking into the issueVinay Pratap Singh, MCG commissioner, said, “I will arrange dry food ration for them immediately and look if a survey was done.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/provide-food-or-send-us-home-150-stuck-migrants-appeal-to-district-administration/story-arjr76AoTf7SaNLI9e0BII.html
21-05-2020||Gurugram||Domestic helps allowed entry, park access allowed on odd-even basis||Domestic helps will be allowed in all residential areas, except in containment zones, according to the latest guidelines issued by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Thursday evening. Another key point of the guideline is the implementation of an odd-even rule for walks in common areas and parks.Domestic helps will have to mandatorily wear face masks, undergo thermal screening at entrances and use hand sanitisers placed at the gates, according to the guidelines.The order by MCG commissioner, Vinay Pratap Singh, a copy of which is with HT, further stated that residents should make arrangements for the stay of domestic helps inside their houses, if possible, “to avoid their daily movement from their place of residence.”Singh clarified that the making stay arrangements are recommended but not a mandatory instruction. He, however, said that residents’ welfare associations cannot permit entry of domestic helps residing in containment zones. Also, domestic helps are also not allowed to work for employers in containment zones.The entry of domestic helps has been a point of contention between RWAs and residents since relaxations were issued when the third phase of the lockdown began.The entry of domestic helps into residential areas varied with each condominium, society, plotted colonies, or residential sector, depending on the RWA’s decision. A few RWAs had also issued notices to residents, stating that domestic helps can be allowed only if they have been tested for coronavirus.In its order, the MCG has stated that they would take action against office bearers of RWAs if they do not comply with their directions.Singh’s order also stated that walks in common areas and parks is now permitted, albeit with restrictions. RWAs have been asked to allow residents of odd-numbered houses to walk in the morning and allow those in even-numbered houses to take walks in the evening, between 7am and 7pm, to avoid crowding and ensure social distancing.“RWAs to adhere to the guidelines issued by the government in letter and spirit, failing which penal provisions as given in MHA (Ministry of Home Affairs) notifications will be attracted against the responsible office bearers of the RWAs,” the order by Singh stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/domestic-helps-allowed-entry-park-access-allowed-on-odd-even-basis/story-av7AWBIb4H7cUnzdaxeXHI.html
21-05-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram’s Civil Hospital refers Covid-positive pregnant woman to Faridabad due to lack of facilities||A 25-year-old woman delivered a child on Wednesday shortly after testing positive for the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease. Her family members alleged she was refused admission by the Civil Hospital in Gurugram and was referred to Faridabad due to lack of facilities for pregnant women at the government hospital.The woman gave birth to a girl in the 38th week of her pregnancy and the child has tested negative for coronavirus. It was a normal delivery, said doctors at the Faridabad hospital.Dr Asim Das, Dean, ESIC Medical College and Hospital, Faridabad, said the patient was referred by Gurugram’s Civil Hospital and within three hours, the patient delivered the baby. “The newborn has tested negative for the infection. She is healthy and doing well, as of now,” he said.Das said it was against guidelines that a patient travels in their personal vehicle after being referred by a government hospital. “She was rushed to the hospital by her husband and the patient was panicking. She was immediately admitted and was taken to the labour room,” he said.The doctor said the mother is fine and though she has tested positive for COVID-19, she is asymptomatic at present. She is more in shock, he said.The woman’s husband said he had taken her for a routine checkup on Tuesday at a nursing home, where they suggested she undergo a test for Covid-19, which the doctors said was mandatory. “Her samples were collected and everything was normal, so we returned home. On Wednesday, we received a call from the nursing home that she has tested positive and that she had to be admitted to the Civil Hospital,” he said.He said they rushed but the Civil Hospital refused to admit her and referred her to ESIC Hospital in Faridabad instead, as they were not fully equipped to deal with pregnant patients and deliveries.“We were refused admission at 5.30pm and my wife started experiencing pain. It was the most challenging phase of my life. Without wasting time, I drove towards Faridabad and I tried to pacify my wife who was tense and was crying throughout,” said the husband.He said doctors at Civil Hospital told them they do not have a separate labour room for Covid-19 patients.The hospital’s principal medical officer, Deepa Sindhu, did not respond to calls seeking comment.However, Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer, Gurugram said Covid-19 pregnant patients from now will be admitted to the Sector 31 polyclinic. “It is a 30-bed facility where we have made arrangements for expecting mothers. Those who are admitted in Faridabad will continue with their treatment there, while new cases from the district will be admitted at the polyclinic,” he said. He added he was unaware that the patient was referred to FaridabadThe ESIC hospital in Faridabad has a protocol dedicated to the care of Covid-19 pregnant patients and has separate cubicles for pregnant women along with operation theatres and labour room, said Das.The ESIC dean said that guidelines issued by the Centre for infants born to a Covid-19-positive mother should be tested within 24 hours of birth. If the baby’s initial sample is negative, another sample should be taken after 48 hours. The samples of the baby born Wednesday would again be drawn on Friday for second testing, Das said.The hospital has conducted more than six such deliveries in the past month, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-s-civil-hospital-refers-covid-positive-pregnant-woman-to-faridabad-due-to-lack-of-facilities/story-ws460WTAI0jPmjZeRHmbKO.html
21-05-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram keeps case count, fatalities below ‘red zone’ limits||At 239, Gurugram district has the highest number of coronavirus cases in the state. Despite this, it is not in the Red Zone -- an area-wise categorisation that would entail strict restrictions-- as it was within the “critical limits” set by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the country’s apex biomedical research body.On Wednesday the Haryana state government declared all 22 districts in the Orange Zone, one step below Red Zone and one above Green Zone (which has nearly nil cases). On May 18, the central government, while extending the lockdown a third time till the end of the month, had given greater say to states to decide on which areas fall under Red, Orange and Green zone categories.According to them, weekly reviews of certain parameters like active cases, doubling rate among others, will be carried out to further categorise districts into different colour codes.Six parameters – total active case, active case per 100,000 population, doubling rate, case fatality rate, testing ratio (number of tests per 100,000 population), and sample positivity rate – with critical and desirable limits to colour code districts has been set by the ICMR, India’s apex medical research body.Gurugram, said additional chief secretary (health) Rajeev Arora, was below critical limit for each of the six parameters. “These are important for monitoring Covid-19 prevalence across all the districts. Since there has been an ease in the lockdown, the data analysis will tell us about the impact on the Covid-19 situation. Every week, will be monitoring districts on the six parameters and take action accordingly. It is a dynamic process,” said Arora. According to him, the next review will be on May 25. Total active cases are the number of Covid-19 patients hospitalised. As per the ICMR, the situation is critical if it exceeds 200. In Gurugram, 95 are under treatment, while 131 have recovered and discharged and the rest do not require hospitalisation.Dr. Sudha Garg, district surveillance officer, said, “We are discharging patients after taking their samples on the tenth day of their treatment. The reports are received in a day or two after which the patient is discharged. As per revised guidelines, we are doing only one confirmatory test before releasing a patient.” Earlier, Covid-19 patients were discharged after two confirmatory tests.This number is arrived by taking into consideration the 2011 census. As per ICMR guideline, the limit is 15.In Gurugram, the number has come down from 7.40 on May 15 to 6.27 on May 20. Ashok Meena, officer incharge for state’s Covid-19 data, who is also CEO Ayushman Bharat and commissioner, food and drugs department,, said, “It doesn’t mean we are not testing people. It is a parameter to check the extent of coronavirus spread in the overall population, which is currently under control.”It estimates the number of days it takes for number of cases to double. An increasing doubling rate, therefore, means fewer days until the total number of cases doubles. It is calculated over a seven-day period. The doubling rate till May 8 was almost seven days. It, however, slowed to 15 on May 15 and in the last two days, it has further slowed to 17.Testing RatioIt is one of the important factors in categorising, directly or indirectly impacting other parameters. Testing ratio is the number of tests per 100,000 population. It is critical situation if less than 65. According to government data, testing ratio in Gurugram has increased from 582 to 661 in the last few days. “Besides contact tracing, our focus has been on the vulnerable population who are at higher risk of exposure to the coronavirus. Be it symptomatic or asymptomatic, samples are being taken for RT-PCR to check the community spread,” said Arora.ICMR requires the fatality rate (number of deaths per case expressed as percentage) to be below 6% and that it is desirable that it be less than 1. The first death in Gurugram was recorded on May 21. Till date, other deaths reported in a few private city hospitals and the sector 10 Civil Hospital were patients from other states. According to health officials, these deaths are included in Covid-19 death list of the respective states.It is the confirmation rate of the samples taken and the desirable number should be less than 2%. ICMR guidelines states it becomes critical if it exceeds 6%. Data from May 15 shows the sample positivity rate fluctuated between 0.26% to 2.46%. “The numbers are increasing as the testing is increasing with focus on high risk contact. Still, it is below the threshold mark,” said Meena.Dr. Preeti Kumar, vice president, Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI) said, “Most of the indicators for Gurugram are higher than the state average like the active cases per lakh population and sample positivity rate.Gurugram’s sample positivity rate shows the infection has not yet spread, which is also clear from the doubling rate figure. The case fatality ratio, on the other hand, is impressive as it reflects people have reached for clinical services with the onset symptoms and second there are enough health facilities to look after these patients. ”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-keeps-case-count-fatalities-below-red-zone-limits/story-m9TItFyjSDcjF7UqvgnLHN.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||In 66 days, Haryana crosses 1,000 mark||CONTAGION Gurugram has reported maximum 239 cases, followed by Faridabad, Jhajjar It took Haryana 66 days to register 1,031 Covid-19 cases. With 38 new infections, the state on Thursday crossed the 1,000 mark.While 13 cases were reported from Gurugram, 11 were detected in Faridabad, four in Panipat, three in Sonepat and two in Kurukshetra. One case each was registered in Panchkula, Jind, Karnal, Rohtak and Mahendergarh. Though official health department bulletin mentioned only one positive case, Mahendergarh authorities said ten people were found infected with coronavirus on Thursday evening. 3 MORE BPS NURSES TEST POSITIVEThree nurses of Bhagat Phool Singh medical college for women in Sonepat’s Khanpur Kalan have also tested positive for the virus. Sonepat deputy commissioner (DC) Shyam Lal Punia said the nurses have been shifted to the hospital’s isolation ward. In Rohtak, a 34-year-old woman, who is suffering from breast cancer, tested positive. Rohtak civil surgeon Dr Anil Birla said the woman had visited a hospital in Delhi several times lately. CANCER PATIENT DIESA 50-year-old man from Jind, who had recently tested positive, died during treatment in Hisar medical college on Wednesday night. Doctors said he was already suffering from lung cancer and had travel history to Mumbai. A 61-year-old Sirsa-based woman availing treatment from a Delhi hospital was also found infected. 4 MORE CASES IN PANIPAT, 1 IN KARNALFour more persons were detected as corona carriers in Panipat. Chief medical officer Dr Sant Lal Verma said they included a 36-year-old woman, her six-year-old son and nine-year-old daughter from Samalkha vegetable market. A 30-year-old man from Dalbir Nagar of Panipat city is the fourth patient. 33 MORE CURED, DISCHARGEDMeanwhile, 33 more patients were discharged after their treatment in the state, taking the number of those cured of Covid to 681. With this, the recovery rate in Haryana rose to 66.05%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/in-66-days-haryana-crosses-1-000-mark/story-oUaR86suW72bRtjHBCr5dJ.html
21-05-2020||City||Family hides deceased’s Covid result, conducts funeral at home; 18 attendees quarantined||The death of an 82-year-old Covid positive patient at a slum in Vartak Nagar area of Thane has led to a panic among residents, as the family carried out the funeral at his home, which in is violation of safety norms. The family allegedly did not inform the relatives about the deceased testing positive for Covid-19. However, some Covid warriors in the area came to know about the test and informed the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC). The civic body has quarantined 18 persons after the incident.The deceased was suffering from fever for the last few days and was taking medicines at home. He got tested on May 18 and his test reports were awaited.Sachin Kharkar, 37, a local Covid warrior, said, “The person died at 8.30am on Wednesday morning. When we came to know about it, we contacted the family who claimed the reports were negative. They received the report, stating that the man tested positive, at 1.45pm but they did not inform anyone and carried out the funeral around 3.30pm. Around 18 people had attended the funeral.”Ravi Naik, 38, another local Covid warrior, said, “We knew the person had undergone a test and insisted on seeing the report. The family members, however, called us in the evening after the funeral and admitted that the report was positive. They also said they would quarantine themselves if necessary. However, we informed the civic body immediately as there were a few neighbours who attended the funeral as well.”The corporation has traced 17 people who were among the high- and low-risk contacts of the patient. Varsha Sasane, medical officer of Vartak Nagar, said, “In case of a death in hospital, we are immediately informed even if it is a suspected case and we ensure that the family follows necessary safety protocol. This was a death at home, and the family did not inform us about the Covid test. They also hid the report from their relatives and neighbours, and violated safety protocol for the funeral. Few Covid warriors in the area, who knew that he had taken the test, demanded that the family send them the report.”Sasane said that of the 17 people, eight were high-risk contact. “We have, at present, home-quarantined all of them as we do not have space in quarantine centres. However, we have asked our superior to at least provide space for the eight high-risk contacts in quarantine facilities.”This is not the first time that a funeral was carried out without following any safety protocol. Earlier in two such cases, around 70 to 80 persons had attended funerals of two persons who died in the slum areas of Wagale and Lokmanya Nagar area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/family-hides-deceased-s-covid-result-conducts-funeral-at-home-18-attendees-quarantined/story-oGvNpx2FDfxEvNteEgAuzO.html
21-05-2020||City||4 pregnant women, infant among 20 test +ve in Punjab||The reports of 20 persons, including four pregnant women and a two-month-old boy who died a day before, were found positive for the coronavirus in Punjab on Thursday, taking the total number of those infected in the state so far to 2,115. The four pregnant women, of whom two delivered babies a day after their samples were collected, were admitted to the Batala civil hospital in Gurdaspur district.Senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Sanjeev Bhalla said, “The samples of 15 pregnant women admitted to the civil hospital were sent to Amritsar. Two doctors and eight hospital staffers, who came in direct contact with the infected women, have been quarantined. The swab samples of the two newborn kids were taken and sent for testing.”Their other contacts are also being traced, he added.7 cases surface in HoshiarpurSeven more persons were confirmed as Covid-19 positive in Hoshiarpur on Thursday, taking the total count of cases in the district to 103. The patients include a Maharashtra-returnee and five contacts of a patient from Jalalpur who had died due to the infection in a Jalandhar hospital early this week. The seventh patient belongs to Data village in Dasuya sub-division.The district has reported five deaths.Also, a positive case was reported in Jalandhar, with the total count in the district reaching 218.4 found infected in Amritsar Besides the two-month-old boy who died at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on Wednesday, three more persons, aged 15, 26 and 60, tested positive for the disease in Amritsar. GMCH medical superintendent Dr Raman Sharma said it is the fifth Covid-19 death in the district that now has a total of 315 cases.“The baby was admitted to the paediatric ward of GMCH on May 18 and was suffering from pneumonia. He was also diagnosed with encephalitis and was suspected to have tuberculosis.”The health department took the samples of the child’s family members who were home-quarantined for 14 days. Also, four doctors of the GMCH paediatric ward were quarantined and their samples will be sent for testing.The 15-year-old girl was admitted to GMCH as she was suffering from diabetes.Ludhiana count 178 with 2 more casesA 60 - year- old woman from Goh village in Khanna sub-division and a 50-year- old Railway Protection Force (RPF) jawan tested positive in Ludhiana on Thursday.The woman was rushed to the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, and was serious.Goh village was sealed by the police. The woman’s younger son, who returned from Uttar Pradesh, is in quarantine at a village school.With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the district reached 178.Two fresh cases in PathankotTwo fresh cases were reported in Pathankot. One of the patients from Zhakholahri village returned from abroad while the other runs a fast-food corner at Dhangu Road.The district has a total of 31 confirmed cases with two deaths.One active case in Rupnagar Two more persons, who were tested positive for Covid-19 in Rupnagar district, were discharged from Gian Sagar Medical College and Hospital, Banur, on Thursday.The number of active Covid-19 cases in the district has come down to one.(Inputs from Ludhiana, Pathankot, Jalandhar and Rupnagar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-pregnant-women-infant-among-20-test-ve-in-punjab/story-cKsgl1vLZqoTqLf2Bjd9vN.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||396 liquor boxes go missing from K’shetra police station, 2 cops booked||Two cops have been booked after 396 cases of liquor from the ‘Malkhana’ (godown) of Kurukshetra University police station went missing. Kurukshetra superintendent of police (SP) Astha Modi has also ordered suspension of the duo and formed a special investigation team (SIT) in the case to be headed by Kurukshetra deputy SP. As per the information, the liquor cases were found missing during a special inspection of godowns in the district. The missing boxes of illegal liquor were recovered in 2016. SP Astha Modi said, “Two malkhana moharar (current and former in-charge), have been booked under Section 409 (criminal breach of trust) of the Indian Penal Code.” The SP said during the checking of the stock, some liquor cases were found missing and a preliminary investigation was ordered, which revealed that the suspended cops were in-charge of the malkhana at the time of theft. She said future course of action will depend on the findings of the SIT’s report. About the details of the accused cops, the SP said since an SIT was investigating the case, their identities cannot be disclosed. Liquor going missing from the police possession has emerged as a major issue in Haryana following the ban on the sale of liquor during the lockdown. Four Yamunanagar policemen, including station house officer of Radaur, were also suspended in connection with the alleged misappropriation of seized illegal liquor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/396-liquor-boxes-go-missing-from-k-shetra-police-station-2-cops-booked/story-Ewr09hKxNcqhaKpTDYAhGM.html
21-05-2020||Gurugram||Toll collection at KMP expressway to start from Friday||The Haryana State Industrial & Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (HSIIDC) is likely to start toll collection at the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) expressway from Friday morning. HSIIDC had stopped collecting toll at the 11 toll points located on the KMP expressway during the lockdown period implemented in March by the central government to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country.HSIIDC officials said that all arrangements are in place for toll collection to restart. Vipin Sharma, head of the department, KMP expressway, HSIIDC, said, “We’ll start collecting toll at KMP expressway from Friday. Traffic on the road has started increasing so we thought we should resume collecting toll.”Officials said that they have laid out a detailed standard operating procedure (SOP) for the operators at the toll plaza, wherein booth operators have to maintain a social distance from commuters. Booth operators will also have to sanitise cash using heat blowers before putting it in the cash register. Navneet Singh, CEO, Skylark, which has a revenue assurance contract with HSIIDC at KMP expressway, said, “We have instructed our 300 toll operators on the expressway to keep enough distance from commuters.” Just like the Kherki-Daula toll plaza in Gurugram, booth operators at KMP expressway will blow-dry cash bills to sanitise them. “We have given toll operators tongs and plastic baskets to take cash from commuters so that they can maintain enough distance from them,” Singh added. All toll checkpoints have been sanitised and the booth operators taught how to maintain hygiene during this period, a toll official said.The ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) had shut all toll plazas in the country from March 25 to April 19, following which it reopened them after relaxations issued by the Centre. Even though the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) toll plazas became operational in April itself, HSIIDC has decided to resume toll operations from Friday. The 135.6 km KMP expressway became fully operational in 2018 and covers five districts—Sonepat, Jhajjar, Gurugram, Mewat and Palwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/toll-collection-at-kmp-expressway-to-start-from-friday/story-CVqba7WHJEVd1JNZx2LOkL.html
21-05-2020||Gurugram||Waterlogging complaint on social media resolved after 10 months||Ten months after a social worker highlighted issues of waterlogging and subsequent mosquito breeding at the Kadipur Industrial Area on social media, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) finally resolved and responded to his grievance on Tuesday night.On July 12, 2019, after a brief spell of rains, Raj Saini Bisarwal, a social worker, had highlighted the problem of waterlogging in Kadipur, raising concerns over vector-borne diseases. He had also attached photos of the waterlogged area and marked several public bodies, including the MCG, on the tweet.At the time, his post had also drawn the attention of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), which directed the MCG to take action on the complaint.Despite the directions, it was only at 10pm on Tuesday night that the MCG finally replied to the complaint by stating “it (the matter) has been resolved” via its official twitter handle, along with photos of the spot, which showed empty streets with no water accumulation.“Last week, I received a call from a junior engineer of the MCG regarding my July 2019 complaint. He first asked me whether my complaint had been resolved and then subsequently asked me for details on it. The next time I received a communication from the MCG was on a tweet on Tuesday night. The whole exercise was pointless as monsoon has not yet started and the roads are dry anyway,” said Bisarwal.As per an MCG official privy to the matter said the Kadipur Industrial Area was under the jurisdiction of the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) until early this year, when the area was partially transferred to the MCG, following which the civic body has started initiating action.“Most parts of Kadipur Industrial Area were unapproved and hence, no civic amenities were being provided there until recently. In December last year, the Haryana government had initiated a survey to regularise over 5,000 industries located in unapproved areas and subsequently, provide them with the civic benefits. After the completion of the survey, we identified around 400 industries in Kadipur area and have started extending civic benefits in the locality since March,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/waterlogging-complaint-on-social-media-resolved-after-10-months/story-kzW99AJUIC4KZx914PfmxL.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||90% teachers taking online classes in Punjab for first time: Survey||Of total 82% respondents having no previous experience of online teaching, 90.2% school teachers are taking online classes in Punjab and Chandigarh for the first time, a survey, conducted online, has shown. The remaining 9.8% teachers said they were not taking online classes during lockdown amid covid-19, the survey that the Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) of Dev Samaj College of Education, Chandigarh, conducted has found. The survey covered 3,550 teachers from government, recognised private and government aided private schools of Punjab and Chandigarh. Of these, 38.6% were primary teachers (PTs), 33.9% trained graduate teachers (TGTs) and 27.5% post graduate teachers (PGTs). With schools closed for almost two months to contain the spread of coronavirus, teachers are using remote teaching tools and platforms to teach their students.The survey has been conducted to study the challenges faced by teachers during online teaching, besides seeking their inputs/recommendations to further improve it in a result-oriented manner. Dr Anita Nangia and Dr Seema Sareen, under the guidance of Dev Samaj College of Education principal Dr Agnese Dhillon, have conducted the survey. The survey findings pointed out that 33.6% of the teachers do not face the problem of lack of appropriate materials and resources while 61.7% reported that they faced this challenge to some extent, while 7.7% to great extent. Only 17.3% of the teachers did not face any technical problems, while the majority of the group faced this challenge to some extent (64.6%) and 18% to a great extent.As per the survey, lack of internet facilities to students is not a problem for only 17.3% teachers, while for rest of 82.7%, it is a problem to some extent (61.5%) or to great extent (21.2%). Lack of in-service training is not a challenge for 44.2% of the group, while the rest perceive it as a challenge in online teaching. While 64.7% reported lack of cooperation from parents as a challenge, 74% teachers find it difficult to assemble all the students for the class to some extent, the survey found. STRAP/BLURB Survey has been done to study challenges teachers face during online teaching, besides seeking their recommendations to improve the process in a result-oriented manner||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/90-teachers-taking-online-classes-in-punjab-for-first-time-survey/story-kMh5c3y04Mt18lEzR2ISRI.html
21-05-2020||Lucknow||Ahead of Eid, UP releases over 600 Tablighi Jamaat members from quarantine||Over 600 Tablighi Jamaat members have been released from quarantine centres in Uttar Pradesh, including 157 in Lucknow, the office of the Director General of Police said in a statement on Thursday.These 600 are among the 2,727 Tablighi Jamaat members who were quarantined in different districts across the state. Most of the remaining ones are likely to be released in the next 10 days as and when they complete their quarantine period, the statement said.Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said the Tablighi Jamaat members, who completed 21 days of quarantine in hospitals or quarantine facilities, were being released after screening. Those among the Jamaatis, who were taken into custody, were being released after bail from court, he said.In Meerut, a total of 296 Tablighi Jamaat members were released from different quarantine centers on Thursday, an official and a public representative said.They had spent about 50 days in these centres, Samajwadi Party MLA Rafeeq Ansari claimed.Chief medical officer Dr Rajkumar said the quarantine period for anyone could be a maximum of 28 days but they (the Tablighi Jamaat members) were kept for a longer time because the district administration was waiting for guidelines for their release. “All of them are now (Sars-Cov-2) negative and can celebrate Eid with their families,” the chief medical officer said.These Tablighi Jamaat members were quarantined after they attended a religious programme at Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi and visited different locations from there.The mid-March Islamic religious discourse was attended by thousands of Jamaat members including hundreds of foreigners, and had triggered concerns about a nationwide spike in coronavirus cases.Thirty-three of these Tablighi Jamaat members belong to Uttar Pradesh, nine to Haryana, 44 to Jharkhand, 55 to Assam, 10 to Maharashtra, 10 to Andhra Pradesh, 38 to West Bengal, 86 to Bihar, nine to Manipur and two to Delhi, according to information provided by the SP MLA. Those from UP belong to Banda, Hathras, Noida (Gautam Buddha Nagar) and Azamgarh districts. Ansari, who represents the Meerut city constituency, said, “I had been contacting every official to ensure their release for the past one month. Finally, they were released after spending over 50 days in their respective quarantine centres.” Ansari claimed he arranged vehicles to send them back to their villages and towns so that they could be reunited with families ahead of Eid. Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MP from Amroha Kunwar Danish Ali said he sent a letter to chief minister Yogi Adityanath on May 15, demanding the release of those people who have completed 21 days in quarantine centres.Ali said several people were illegally quarantined in Amroha for more than 45 days. He urged the chief minister that they be immediately sent home.One Hafizullah, who was among those in quarantine in Amroha, died of a heart attack, Ali alleged. Hafizullah was a resident of Ambedkar Nagar. It was only after Hafizullah’s death that the district administration swung into action and all people staying in quarantine were released and sent home, the BSP MP said.He also said the family members of those who had “illegally detained” in quarantine centres contacted him. People were facing a similar situation in various districts of UP, he said. Ali said he contacted additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi and urged him to send these people home without any further delay or else those with illnesses might meet the same fate as Hafizullah in Amroha.The release of people from quarantine centers will not only provide relief to their family members, who are mentally disturbed for the past 50 days, but also reduce the burden on the administration, he said.The additional chief secretary assured Ali that necessary action will be taken in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/ahead-of-eid-up-releases-over-600-tablighi-jamaat-members-from-quarantine/story-StISgzeTvCYTJZpCHlbsOP.html
21-05-2020||City||City reports 7 deaths, 208 fresh Covid-19 cases||PUNE The city, on Thursday, reported seven more deaths related to Covid-19 (coronavirus), caused by the Sars-Cov-2 virus, taking the virus-related death toll in the city to 227. In addition, 208 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported within 24 hours, taking the total count of positive cases in Pune to 4,107.The number of patients in critical care rose from 165 on Wednesday, to 169 on Thursday. As many as 159 persons were discharged, after being declared cured of the virus; this puts the discharged count at 2,182.According to the information given by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health department, of the seven deaths reported on Thursday, two patients each were from Sahyadri Hospital, Deccan, Sassoon Hospital and Bharati Vidyapeeth Hospital and one patient was from Kashibai Navale Hospital.Two deceased patients from Sassoon Hospital include a 52-year-old male patient from Yerawada who was admitted on May 12 and died due to respiratory failure along with Covid-19. While another patient was an 84-year-old female from Ganj peth who was admitted on May 13 and had pneumonia and respiratory failure.Other two patients from Sahyadri Hospital, Deccan were both females 50 and 74-year-old. Both of them had pneumonia along with Covid-19.While two patients from Bharati Vidyapeeth Hospital were a 42-year-old male patient and 65-year-old female patient. The female patient suffered from hypoxic respiratory failure and the male patient suffered from respiratory hypoxemia.Kashibai Navale hospital reported death of a 64-year-old female, a resident of Market Yard area who suffered from pneumonia along with Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/city-reports-7-deaths-208-fresh-covid-19-cases/story-mvspxhuA2ideIgXewYL8AO.html
21-05-2020||City||Amid job crisis, youth queue up to volunteer at Covid-19 isolation centre||While most people are confining themselves within their homes amid the Covid-19 outbreak, jobless youth in Ludhiana came in large numbers to apply for the post of volunteers at the isolation wards on Wednesday.The volunteers, mostly women, including paramedical staff, were seen jostling among themselves as they queued up outside the enrolment centre at civil surgeon office for registration. A doctor, on the condition of anonymity, said that many BDS (Bachelor of Dental Surgery) graduates had also come to apply for the post.The volunteers are being recruited as daily wagers to meet the manpower shortage emerging in the government hospital during the Covid-19 crises.As social distancing went for a toss completely, the health authorities had to call the police to bring the situating under control.Furious on witnessing the chaotic scenes, civil surgeon Dr Rahesh Bagga was seen yelling at the crowd. Dr Bagga said, “It is sad that we had to call the police to control the situation. These youngsters, who are educated enough, should realise the importance of maintaining social distance. But they did not bother.”Dr Bagga also said that while applicants were jostling with each other, their family members went one step ahead. They were seen assembling against the wall to catch a glimpse of the training centre.“Nearly two to five family members were accompanying one applicant. It was as if they were visiting a shopping mall. This is bizarre. People should not take undue advantage of government relaxation,” said Dr Bagga.Dr Bagga reportedly lambasted the staff for failing to manage the crowd.“The applicants should be given tokens to avoid chaos at the enrolment counter,” said Dr Bagga.On the other hand, the youngsters standing in queue said that they were badly in need of a job.“I need a job to help my family in tiding over the financial crises. The government is offering a good amount of money to volunteers on a daily basis. I did not want to lose this opportunity. Yes, there was rush but everyone needs a job these days,” said Gurpreet Kaur, one of the applicants.Another woman, who got married recently, said that due to the lockdown, her family’s savings were drying up. “My family is in desperate need of money and despite being a trained paramedic, I am sitting at home. As soon as I found about this job, I came here to try my luck,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-job-crisis-youth-queue-up-to-volunteer-at-covid-19-isolation-centre/story-gWVIg19IovtUNcxABM72rJ.html
21-05-2020||Delhi||Lack of social distancing in Tihar jail not a valid reason to seek bail: HC||The Delhi High Court has said that a lack of social distancing, by itself, may not be valid grounds for inmates of the Tihar jail to seek interim bail, as there is no reported case of Covid-19 within the boundaries of the jail. The court, while rejecting an inmate’s bail application, also said that jails are more secure since they are insulated from outside human traffic.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar noted that in several status reports, they have been informed that although it may not be possible to maintain social distancing norms in jails, masks are being provided to the inmates.“We have called for status reports in several other similar cases, and we have been informed that though it may not be possible to maintain social distancing norms in jails, masks are being provided to the inmates. By their very nature, jails are more protected areas since they are insulated from outside human traffic. Therefore, a lack of social distancing norms, by itself, may not be grounds to seek interim bail when there is no reported case of Covid-19 within the four walls of the jail (Tihar),” the court said.The order was issued while hearing a plea by an inmate, who had sought bail. It was contended that the incarceration of the appellant has led to his wife suffering from anxiety, due to which he should be released on interim bail. The court, rejecting this claim, said that if this submission was to be accepted, then such a reason would be presented as an argument to seek interim or regular bail in every case where a convict is undergoing a life sentence or long-term sentence.“In our view, unless there is some material to show that the appellant’s (accused) wife is undergoing some significant psychological or mental illness, the plea cannot be considered for grant of interim bail,” the court said in the order, dated May 20.The counsel for the jail had told the court that there is no reported case of Covid-19 in the Tihar jail, where the accused has been lodged. She further told the court that, on inquiry, it was found that the inmate’s wife is living alone but could not produce any document to show that she is undergoing treatment for anxiety, which is grounds to seek interim bail.Meanwhile, the Delhi High Court on Wednesday also directed the jail superintendent, Central jail, Rohini, to look into the complaint of a prisoner who had alleged harassment by three inmates, in collusion with the police officials. Advocate Kamna Vohra, additional standing counsel of the Delhi government, refuted the allegations, stating that there is no proof to substantiate the “bald” claims made the family members of the accused. The court said even though there is merit in the submissions of the counsel, the superintendent would look into the matter and in case it is found that he was/is being ill-treated or harassed by the inmates or any jail officer, take appropriate action against them and provide the inmate necessary protection and medical treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/lack-of-social-distancing-in-tihar-jail-not-a-valid-reason-to-seek-bail-hc/story-kULuBxALQ5cWonSUARQy2O.html
21-05-2020||Mumbai||BMC allows burial of a Christian Covid-19 victim||On Thursday morning, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) allowed burial of a Christian, who died of Covid-19, at a designated cemetery. This is the first burial of a Covid-19 victim from the Christian community as other victims were cremated as per protocol.The 74-year-old woman from Dharavi passed away at SevenHills Hospital on Wednesday and was buried at Deonar Municipal Christian cemetery.“Over the past 60 days, there have been 11 cremations. On Wednesday, despite BMC order, Sewri cemetery refused burial to the body. Then we tried contacting other cemeteries and the burial took place at Deonar,” said Cyril Dara, a church activist.However, Sewri cemetery authorities were unavailable for comments.A BMC official, who co-ordinated the burial, said in a normal situation burials take place within ward premises, but in situation such as this, permissions are required from higher authorities. The development comes after the civic body issued a circular designating four cemeteries for Christians, two for Chinese and one for Jewish community.On Tuesday, HT was the first to report about the death of 61-year-old woman from Mahim on Sunday. Her family had to cremate her body after being denied burial at several cemeteries on the grounds that the woman had died of Covid-19.Following which, members of the Christian community contended that according to their religious practices a body cannot be cremated and needs to be buried and that forced cremations hurt their religious sentiments.Last month, BMC had allowed burial of Covid-19 victims within city limits, provided the ground is large enough to ensure there is no threat of transmission to the residents of the area. However, only 20 Muslim cemeteries were allotted for burials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-allows-burial-of-a-christian-covid-19-victim/story-MmgAKijbjPsFeG6THcQ8jI.html
21-05-2020||City||As life limps back to normal in Ludhiana, sanitisation drive takes a back seat||At a time when the state government has lifted curfew and people have started thronging Ludhiana markets, sanitisation drive was missing in the city. Ludhiana municipal corporation had deployed nine machines, including two fire tenders, to disinfect the main roads of the city in April first week, however, now when most of the sectors had been opened, no machine could be seen on the main roads. Chaura Bazar, Saban Bazar, electronics market and other areas have been witnessing huge rush of visitors. The movement of migrant workers has also increased and labourers in large numbers could be seen at railway station road, Giaspura, Focal Point, Tajpur rod and other areas. In several wards of the city, sanitisation drive of the internal streets has also come to a halt. Ludhiana mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said that two backpack machines were given to each councillor of the city to undertake disinfection drive.Leader of opposition in the general house of municipal corporation and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) councillor, Harbhajan Singh Dang, said, “Disinfection drive was being done in his ward until two weeks back, but since then no MC employee has turned up for the job.” SAD councilor, ward number 17, Jasmeet Kaur, said that the civic body adopts lackadaisical approach when it comes to disinfecting the city roads. “Not even handy backpack machines were provided to me and threat of residents getting infected with Covid-19 looms large over them. The civic body should have rather intensified the sanitisation drive when the markets were witnessing huge rush,” said Kaur, adding that many councillors are forced to use their own machinery and money for sanitising their wards. A MC employee, requesting anonymity, said the drive was stopped since the state government lifted the curfew on May 17. “The MC employees were facing problem in disinfecting the roads owing to large number of people thronging the market places. We cannot spray chemical on them. The officials were planning to take up the disinfection process during night hours or early morning hours, however, no final decision has been taken in this regard so far,” he added. Krishma, a resident of BRS Nagar, E-block, said, “MC employees were disinfecting the internal roads and entry gates of the houses in April, but the drive had been put to a halt for a long time now. Sanitisation process should be taken up on regular basis, especially in the internal areas to stop the spread of the virus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-life-limps-back-to-normal-in-ludhiana-sanitisation-drive-takes-a-back-seat/story-3C8jOHP8L1lUZQEXr2Vh4K.html
21-05-2020||City||TMC forms ward-level panel to tackle Covid||After Wednesday’s single-day jump of 110 coronavius cases in Thane, the municipal corporation has decided to implement the Baramati pattern to fight the increasing number of infections in the city. Baramati imposed a strict lockdown after one death and four positive cases were recorded. The central team had applauded the pattern and had urged other districts to follow it.The decision was taken in a standing committee meeting of Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) -- the first one during lockdown -- held on Wednesday. The committee members also asked the corporation to clean and disinfect community toilets in the slums four times a day.The committee blamed the administration for increasing Covid cases in the slums, claiming that the toilets aren’t cleaned, contract tracing is not done properly while people in slums are home-quarantined as centres are full. Till Wednesday, the city had recorded around 1,453 cases, most of which are from the slum areas of Lokmanyanagar Sawarkarnagar, Mumbra, Majiwada and Wagale Estate.NCP corporator Hanumant Jagdale proposed the Baramati pattern in the meeting. “Like in Baramati, ward-level committee consisting of corporators, civic officials, district officers, police officers and rationing officials should be formed. The committee will look at ward-level problems and also help in screening and contact tracing.”All corporators agreed and a committee was formed for Lokmanyanagar ward.Ram Repale, chairman of the committee, said, “We have got complaints about people not getting ambulances on time, the administration has mismanaged the crisis. The community toilets are unclean while people are not quarantined properly. It is essential that the corporators and the corporation work together and form a committee to look at these issues.”Repale gave directives to the administration to ensure that the community toilets are cleaned four times a day. He said, “All contacts of a positive case found in the slums will have to be admitted in quarantine centres. The corporation will have to provide enough manpower for the centres. Asymptomatic Covid patients in the slums cannot be quarantined at home.”The standing committee has said that only 100 tests a day is very less.A TMC official said, “The committee made several suggestions to deal with the pandemic. We will try to implement all of it, especially regarding the sanitation of the community toilets in the slums. The ward-level committee was formed today and the first meeting was held at Lokmanyanagar.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tmc-forms-ward-level-panel-to-tackle-covid/story-Vd6xftgfY6kAwEDMJOXZZL.html
21-05-2020||Kolkata||Cyclone Amphan disrupts corporate functioning, IT sector in Kolkata||Cyclone Amphan that ravaged coastal belt of West Bengal and Kolkata disrupted corporate functioning and board meetings on Thursday after the Internet connectivity and power remained a challenge. The information technology sector also remained badly affected. “Most of the employees of our members working from home in city and outskirts but their work was badly affected for internet issues and leased lines have also failed. We expect things might improve from tomorrow onwards,” IT sector body Nasscom (east) regional director Nirupam Chaudhuri told PTI. At least two city-based companies, Birla Corporation and Tata Metaliks postponed their respective board meetings scheduled for Thursday. Birla Corporation said due to inclement weather (AMPHAN Cyclone), the meeting of the board of directors scheduled to be held on Thursday has been postponed and the same will now be convened on Friday, the 22nd May. While, Tata Metaliks informed bourses that due to the telecom and internet connectivity issues on account of disruption caused by Cyclone Amphan in Kolkata, where many of directors reside, the board meeting scheduled for Thursday for account finalisation stands rescheduled. Vodafone Idea, Airtel and BSNL had blamed cyclonic conditions and power outages for disruption in voice and data services. The power utility for Kolkata, parts of Howrah, CESC Ltd, did not respond though there were allegations of outage in several parts under their command. Meanwhile, Kolkata Port Trust, said they have resumed port operations this morning. But there had been disruptions in vessel management system as the outstation post cables damaged, but alternative systems are in use, officials said. There had been some other damages but major port assets, including vessels are safe since adequate precautions were taken, chairman Vinit Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/cyclone-amphan-disrupts-corporate-functioning-it-sector-in-kolkata/story-fC8qvT8jKZkr8sV5x0zSIO.html
21-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra coronavirus tally crosses 40,000-mark, 64 new deaths||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 2,345 new coronavirus cases, taking the tally in the state to 41,642, a health official said.With 64 deaths due to the pandemic reported during the day, 41 of them in the worst-hit Mumbai, the death toll in the state rose to 1,454.This was the fifth consecutive day when the state reported more than 2,000 new coronavirus cases. Maharashtra Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 41,642, new cases 2,345, deaths 1,454, discharged patients 11,726, active cases 28,454, people tested so far 3,19,710.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-coronavirus-tally-crosses-40-000-mark-64-new-deaths/story-DixNjmbFggP3pedmEDsnpO.html
21-05-2020||Mumbai||Awhad demands CM Uddhav to expedite Dharavi revamp project||In the backdrop of the Covid-19 crises which gripped Dharavi, housing minister Jitendra Awhad has demanded the expedition of the Dharavi revamp project which has been struck from the last 16 years.In a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Awhad said the time has come to start the execution of this project. “The Covid-19 has played havoc with the Dharavi residents since they live in such small slum dwellings. We should now focus on the redevelopment so that such incidents are prevented in the future,” said Awhad.Awhad said Thackeray should now take an immediate decision regarding awarding the project to Seclink Technology Corporation (STC), which had won the bid last year or retender the project. “My only contention is that a decision should be taken to revamp [the slums] and our government should do this urgently,” said Awhad.Currently, Dharavi is a major Covid-19 hotspot where cases are increasing rapidly.The Dharavi redevelopment committee said that at least now the government should take a serious view of the revamp. “We are living in utmost unhygienic conditions in these slums where social distancing in virtually impossible. The Government should now step in the undertake this process on a war footing,” said Raju Korde, president, of the committee.The revamp has faced a lot of problems since its inception in 2004. The two main hurdles were eligibility factor, where 63% people in sector 3 were found non-eligible and the large scale pull-out by the developers because of the government’s flip-flop stance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/awhad-demands-cm-uddhav-to-expedite-dharavi-revamp-project/story-ulNYRe5AQziOO7wqYr11LN.html
21-05-2020||Mumbai||BEST to convert 43 more buses into ambulances for Covid patients||As the city is grappling with rising number of Covid-19 cases, Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) undertaking — the civic transport service — has decided to convert another 43 of its AC mini-buses into ambulances. A senior BEST official said these converted ambulances will only be used to ferry patients to Covid care centres.Sunil Ganacharya, member of BEST committee, said, “Considering the Covid-19 outbreak in the city, we have decided to convert 43 more buses into ambulances. As per agreement, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will take care of maintenance of all buses converted into ambulances.”Ganacharya further added that only wet lease buses will be provided for this purpose.All seating arrangements will be removed and air-tight partition will be set up in order to separate driver’s cabin from the rest of the vehicle.Some of the already converted buses have been pressed into service. BEST is also converting some of buses into proper ambulances and will also help the civic body to convert their tempo travellers into ambulances. In addition, two more mobile ambulances with all necessary equipment will also be provided to BMC, said BEST officials.As of now, BEST has handed over 72 mini bus-turned-ambulances and if need arises it will prepare more, said BEST officials.Meanwhile, a total of 147 BEST employees have tested positive so far. 77 staffers are undergoing treatment at various hospitals in the city, of whom 60 are asymptomatic. BEST administration claimed nearly about 47% of BEST employees who tested positive have recovered.BEST, which caters to 35 lakh commuters in Mumbai and neighbouring cities, has a fleet of over 3,500 buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/best-to-convert-43-more-buses-into-ambulances-for-covid-patients/story-IaJXayxuKRDprdfobpPCUI.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Mercury inches towards 40°C in Chandigarh||After rising to 39.7°C on Thursday, the year’s highest till now, maximum temperature is likely to breach the 40°C mark amid dry weather on Friday, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD) bulletin issued for Chandigarh.“A dry spell is expected in the city in the coming days, even though isolated stations in Punjab and Haryana are likely to receive light rainfall due to pressure disturbances, which are unlikely to cause anything but partly cloudy weather in Chandigarh,” said an IMD official. “Due to the dry spell, maximum temperature can increase further by two to three notches in the coming days.” Maximum temperature went up from 38.3 degrees on Wednesday to 39.7 degrees on Thursday. Minimum temperature went up from 19.8 degrees to 21.8 degrees. In the next three days, maximum temperature is likely to remain between 41 degrees and 42 degrees while minimum temperature is likely to remain between 23 degrees and 26 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mercury-inches-towards-40-c-in-chandigarh/story-KfFSTDWE0Hu18x7y91mdJI.html
21-05-2020||Gurugram||Coronavirus cases in Haryana rise to 1,005||With 12 more people testing positive for Covid-19, nine of them in Faridabad, the total number of coronavirus cases in Haryana rose to 1,005 on Thursday.Kurukshetra reported two fresh cases and Mahendragarh had one new case, according to the state health department’s daily bulletin.More than 60 per cent of the 1,005 cases have been reported from the four worst-hit districts of Gurgaon, Faridabad, Sonipat and Jhajjar.While Gurgaon has 226 cases, Faridabad 179, Sonipat 147 and Jhajjar has reported 91 Covid-19 infections, making it a total of 643 cases in these four districts which fall in the National Capital Region.As per the bulletin, of the 14 deaths in the state so far, Faridabad has most of these at six.The total number of active Covid-19 cases in the state is 321 while the number patients who have been discharged is 670.        The state has a recovery rate of 66.67 per cent, fatality rate at 1.39 per cent while tests per million being conducted are 3,422.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/coronavirus-cases-in-haryana-rise-to-1-005/story-bGLEziXo3T8IePNdIFzPEI.html
21-05-2020||Pune||120 labourers taken to Akurdi shelter as Gorakhpur train runs out of space||A group of at least 120 labourers were taken to a shelter in Akurdi by Pimpri Chinchwad police as a Shramik Express train to Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh ran out of space on Thursday afternoon.“I’m travelling alone. My entire family is waiting at home. We could see the train and a token was given to me. I thought, I’m finally going home. And then the officials simply asked us to go back, stating that the train is full,” said Kaimuddin, 40, who works in a private company in Pimpri-Chinchwad and was in the list of Sangvi police station.“I was living in the company where I work. I have left that space because my name appeared in the list. Half of my people are already on the train. I cannot go back to the factory because they will not take us back. What should I do?” asked an exasperated Sagib Alam, 27, who works in a company in Phase 3 of Hinjewadi.Multiple families with children were seen walking out of the station around 2:15pm with bags, buckets, bottles and all the belongings that they could muster up. The state police as well as Railway Protection Force (RPF) officials were escorting them out of the station.“They filled in less people compared to the normal number. We tried to adjust on the trains meant for Pune city police. However, it could not be adjusted. So we are taking them to a temporary shelter in Akurdi where they will spend the night. Food will be provided. And in the morning, they will be put on the first train to their destination,” said police inspector Ajay Jogdand who is the nodal officer for Zone-2 of Pimpri-Chinchwad police.All the nodal officials - Pune police, Pimpri-Chinchwad police, and tehsil officers in rural areas - have been allotted with certain number of trains as per the number of applications received by them, according to railway officials.“The nodal officials are informed about the train capacity of a particular train as per rake availability in advance. The rule is that not more than 90 per cent of the train capacity can be filled. If they bring in more people, the train cannot adjust them,” said a railway official requesting anonymity.While a reason that necessitated such a move cannot be pin-pointed, the people will spend the night at a shelter home and await the train on Friday morning, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/120-labourers-taken-to-akurdi-shelter-as-gorakhpur-train-runs-out-of-space/story-mJL7I0Ibwk3LheDOytSu7L.html
21-05-2020||Lucknow||After nearly 2 months, markets off to a sedate start in Lucknow||The plush Hazratganj market resumed operations on Thursday, with some shops open and some closed. Around 55 shops located on one side of the road (on DRM’s office side) were allowed to function as per the guidelines of lockdown 4.0.Markets in Alambagh, Krishna Nagar, Kanpur Road, Indira Nagar and other areas also reopened on ‘alternate day’ basis. According to the arrangement, shops on one side of the market will open one day and the ones on the other side of the road will open the other day.Despite the permission to open, not many traders turned up at Hazratganj market to resume business. Some said the losses were unbearable, while others said they were left with no staff as all workers had moved to their hometowns when the lockdown was announced on March 24. A few shop owners, who couldn’t withstand the losses due to lockdown, initiated permanent closure of their establishments, said a few traders.Sooraj Prakash Kakkar, owner of the 81-year-old British Book Depot, said: “We are reopening after almost two months. Our book depot was established by my father, late Shanti Prakash Kakkar, in 1936 and I am taking care of it since the late 1940s. It’s the first time when this market has seen such a long closure,” said Kakkar, who is in his late seventies. Kakkar said book trade was already in its last leg, and the lockdown had worsened the situation. He said two shops next to his book depot were closed down by the owners due to heavy losses.However, the Hazratganj Traders’ Association said none of the traders had approached them so far, expressing helplessness in running the shops due to losses. “All have suffered losses during lockdown. But so far, no one has approached us expressing inability to run the shop. If that is the case, the trader should approach us. The association is ready to give financial support to such traders. All help will be interest free,” said Kishin Chand Bhambwani, president of Hazratganj Traders’ Association (HTA).Garments, confectionary, sweet shops and other outlets remained open during the day.However, shop owners said there were hardly any buyers as people were not ready to visit the markets yet.“Many shops have reopened after two months and most of the traders are cleaning up their establishments and setting things in order. The customers are missing from the market,” said Nirmal Singh of Nirmal Stationers at LDA Colony, Kanpur road. He added, “We have made arrangements for social distancing. Customers will remain behind the rope, which has been tied near the counter, to avoid direct touch.”“We will allow only two customers at a time, while others can stand outside on the marked circles to ensure social distancing. Only a few customers have come to the shop,” said Harjeet Singh, another shopkeeper in Alambagh. He said traders were following the district administration’s guidelines for lockdown 4.0.“As per the new format of lockdown 4.0, it has been decided that all shops, except those in containment and buffer zones, will open on alternate day basis. On the seventh day, shops will remain closed for the weekly sanitisation exercise,” said Abhishek Prakash, district magistrate, Lucknow.The administration had also issued dos and don’ts for shop owners. They have been asked to maintain a register, thermal scanner, keep sanitiser/gloves, make provisions for social distancing and not to entertain customers without masks.BOXShops closed in containment/buffer zones Aminabad market and nearby markets; Latouche road; Nazirabad, BN Road (Qaiserbagh crossing to Bapu Bhawan)Cantonment road (from Burlington crossing to Qaiserbagh crossing),Qaiserbagh crossing to Qaiserbagh bus stand;Moulviganj crossing to Raqabganj crossing;Hewett Road; Lalbagh and nearby markets; Jai Hind Market;Tulsidas Marg (Victoria street) to Haiderganj crossing; Nadan Mahal road;Charak Chauraha to Medical College; Nakkhas Market; Sadar Bazar Cantt||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-nearly-2-months-markets-off-to-a-sedate-start-in-lucknow/story-IeTvWhUaTTQALAtZOvDecM.html
21-05-2020||City||Ganesh festival to be a simple, low-key affair||PUNE The Ganeshostav which is a ten-day festival and is celebrated with fervour will be a low-key affair this year due to the Covid-19 (coronavirus) pandemic.In a video conference meeting held on Wednesday, five Maanache (most revered) Ganapati mandal members met along with the three prominent mandals to decide upon the way forward for this year’s Ganeshostav. During the meeting, all mandals unanimously decided to celebrate the festival starting in August in a traditional and simple manner instead of going with major sets and designs.This meeting was attended by Shrikant Shete, president, Kasba Ganpati Saravajanik Ganesh Ustav Mandal, Kasba peth and member Saurabh Dhokte; Rajabhau Tikar, president, Tambadi Jogeshwari Mandal, along with members Prasad Kulkarni, Saurabh Dhadphale, Keshav Neurgaonkar and Aniruddha Gadgil. Pravinsheth Pardeshi, president, Guruji Talim Mandal, along with member Prithviraj Pardeshi. Vivek Khatavkar, president, Tulshibag mandal; Sanjeev Javale, president, Bhausaheb Rangari Ganapati mandal and Dagadu Sheth Halwai Ganapati Trust was represented by Sunil Rasne and Mahesh Suryawanshi, treasurer.“This year’s Ganeshotsav will be celebrated by setting up a traditional pavilion and though this was a primary meeting, we have decided that only common minimum programmes will be held with simple, spiritual ceremonies this Ganeshostav while all kind of social and public programmes will stand cancelled,” said Shrikant Shete, president Kasba Ganpati Saravajanik Ganesh Ustav mandal, Kasba peth.“We also plan to keep the Ganesha’s procession flexible keeping in view the current situation and how the situation clears post lockdown. Usually, the idea behind Ganeshostav is to bring people together but this year, we feel that people should participate emotionally instead of being present physically,” he said.“This year we will strictly adhere to all the rules and conditions laid by the administration and government during the Ganeshostav,” Shete added.During the meeting, the mandals have also appealed to people to maintain the sanctity of the Ganesh idol intact and requested idol makers not to make idols wearing masks or showing mask in any of their displays. They also appealed to the people bringing Ganapati idol home to avoid putting a mask on the idol as part of their decoration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ganesh-festival-to-be-a-simple-low-key-affair/story-KJYPA2o4w6ZuMN8N4mUxYO.html
21-05-2020||City||Bus with digital x-ray, blood test, swab collection facilities deployed in containment zones||PUNE To increase testing for Sars-cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has deployed a bus equipped with advanced digital x-ray, blood-test facility and a swab collection booth.The bus will move along the containment zones in Bhavani peth, Dhole Patil road wards and help take chest X-rays of high-risk contacts of positive patients.Dr Rajesh Dighe, zonal medical officer, said, “The bus is equipped with x-ray, blood test facility and even swab collection booth. The bus allows us to move it easily into various places and so we have decided to place it on alternate days near the swab collection centres at Tadiwala road in the Dhole Patil road ward, and Mahatma Phule Peth area in Bhavani peth ward.”The bus was inaugurated on Wednesday and out of the 75 suspected first contacts, 15 were scanned for X-ray on the first day at the Bhavani peth ward.The bus has been provided by Krsnaa Diagnostics which is headquartered in Pune and had earlier provided the same bus in Mumbai. Now two buses have been provided for each of the two civic bodies PMC and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC).“The x-ray facility scans the chest of the suspected high-risk patients who are mostly seniors citizens with comorbidities who may show symptoms of Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection or any pneumonia-like symptoms. If the tests are done in the initial stage we can start treatment early,” said Dr Dighe.Pallavi Jain, managing director, Krsnaa Diagnostics, said, “We have separated the bus into two compartments for the staff and the suspected patients. Each patient undergoes the x-ray scanning for which the results are displayed within 20 minutes and if we detect any patches of pneumonia or Covid-19 we inform the concerned health officer and then the suspected person can be sent for a swab test.”“Till the results are out the person can be asked for self home quarantine,” added Jain.As per the memorandum of understanding (MoU), the civic body will be charged Rs 400 for each scanning and blood test while the residents can avail this facility for free.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bus-with-digital-x-ray-blood-test-swab-collection-facilities-deployed-in-containment-zones/story-oo6E8aRym8a8TGcnQavieN.html
21-05-2020||Kolkata||4 additional NDRF teams being airlifted to Kolkata in view of damage caused by Cyclone Amphan||Four additional teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) are being airlifted to Kolkata on the request of the West Bengal government and will reach the city by late evening on Indian Air Force aircraft, the chief of the force, S N Pradhan, said on Thursday.Addressing a press conference here, Pradhan said two teams each from Chennai and Pune are being airlifted to Kolkata in view of the damage caused by Cyclone Amphan and they will be at the disposal of the West Bengal government.He said the teams were scheduled to depart at 4.30 pm and arrive at Kolkata at around 8.30 pm.Pradhan said according to the feedback received from the states that have been battered by Cyclone Amphan, it seems life will start returning to normal in the impact zones of Odisha within 24-48 hours, while West Bengal has suffered more damage.The extent of the damage done by the extremely severe cyclonic storm will become clearer after surveys in the coming days, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/4-additional-ndrf-teams-being-airlifted-to-kolkata-in-view-of-damage-caused-by-cyclone-amphan/story-6bXiloc2ybt20DwpnsDGBN.html
21-05-2020||City||16 Punjab-route passengers trains to run from June 1||In a huge relief to people stranded in various parts of the country amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown, as many as seven non-AC express trains and one Jan Shatabdi train will be running from Amritsar to various parts of the country and back from June 1. These trains are among the 200 passenger trains announced by the railways, apart from the Shramik trains.The trains include Amritsar-New Jalpaiguri Karambhumi Express (02407/08), Amritsar-Kolkata Express (02357/58), the Sachkhand Express (02715/16), which runs from Nanded to Amritsar, Golden Temple Mail (02904/03) from Amritsar to Mumbai Central, Paschim Express (02926/25) from Amritsar to Bandra (T), Shaheed Express (04673/74) from Amritsar to Jaynagar, Saryu Yamuna Express (04649/50) from Amritsar to Jaynagar, and Jan Shatabdi Express (02053/54) from Haridwar to Amritsar (2205).Of these, only three trains will run daily while the others will run either weekly or bi-weekly or four days a week.The Railways has asked the passengers to book tickets online. Booking can be done 30 days in advance. Passengers have been asked to reach the station 90 minutes before the arrival of the train so that authorities can complete all procedures such as temperature screening.Besides, passengers have been asked to carry their own food and water and also observe proper social distancing throughout the journey. They have also been told to follow the guidelines under National Directives for Covid-19 Management, which include wearing a mask.Station director Tarun Kumar said, “We have received information about the trains and are ready with all the arrangements. During the train’s halt at Ludhiana railway station, it will be sanitised and the passengers boarding the train will be screened.”12 SHRAMIK TRAINS TO DEPART FROM LUDHIANA ON FRIDAYA total of 12 Shramik Special trains will departed for various destinations from Ludhiana Railway Station on May 22. All trains would have a capacity of 1,600. For Kishangarh in Rajasthan, the train will depart at 10 am from the station. Another special train for Fatehpur district in Uttar Pradesh will depart at 11:15 am from the Ludhiana railway station. For Mau and Basti in Uttar Pradesh, the train will leave from here at 12.30 pm and 1.40 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/16-punjab-route-passengers-trains-to-run-from-june-1/story-oyt8NGY8Lstmnk6MYYGd4N.html
21-05-2020||Mumbai||Over 60 migrants gather at Vasai due to rumours of special train to Uttarakhand||Around 60 to 70 migrants have gathered at the Suncity grounds in Vasai (East) since Tuesday, due to rumours on social media that the Railways are starting a special train to Kathgodam, Ramnagar and other stations in Uttarakhand. “We saw a huge group at Suncity grounds. They told us that a WhatsApp message was doing the rounds that a special train will start to take them to Uttarakhand. I alerted the state administration and Kiran Survase, Tehsildar, Vasai, reached the spot and convinced the group that no such train was arranged by the government,” said Jaiprakash Sabhapati, member, Uttarakhand Welfare Association. As the migrants had no money to return to their areas, trustees of a nearby under-construction temple were requested to let them stay at the premises. “The Dashmesh Gurudwara in Vasai also agreed to provide meals and water to the migrants twice a day,” added Sabhapati.Sabhapati said they are planning to complain to the state cyber cell to probe the source of the rumours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/over-60-migrants-gather-at-vasai-due-to-rumours-of-special-train-to-uttarakhand/story-k4jNbDiXpaQHB4jx98PMCN.html
21-05-2020||Kolkata||‘Cyclone or Earthquake’: Amphan’s intensity left Kolkata asking as buildings shook||When Super cyclone Amphan was tearing its way through Kolkata with wind speed gusting up to 130 km per hour, none could recollect any calamity to compare Wednesday’s devastation with. The city had never seen such destruction in its recent memories.“After every calamity, we tend to compare it with something in the past. We have seen cyclone Aila in 2009 and cyclone Bulbul in 2019. But Amphan was like hell. I have not seen anything of this sort in my life. It was as if the storm was whistling and bulldozing its way through,” said Bibhutibhusan Dey, 70, a resident of east Kolkata.Many people said they got an earthquake-like feeling when the cyclone was battering the city. Some said they felt that buildings were swaying. The feeling was all the more intense in high rises in east Kolkata which was closer to Cyclone Amphan’s path. “We felt as if the entire building was swaying. Initially, we thought that an earthquake was taking place even as the cyclone was raging outside. But then, we found out that it was because of the storm. It was really scary,” said Arpita Pal, who resides on the 10th floor of a high-rise building in east Kolkata.Tollywood actor Ankush Hazra also shared his feelings on social media and shared glimpses of his damaged apartment. He wrote: “Earthquake or Cyclone?”On Thursday morning, the streets and lanes bore the scar marks left behind by the storm - uprooted lamp posts and traffic signals, broken pieces of glasses from shattered windowpanes and damaged vehicles trapped under broken tree-branches among others. Several houses were also damaged when uprooted trees fell on them. “We are getting dozens of calls every second at the control room. Hundreds of trees, lamp posts and traffic signals have been uprooted. Several roads have been blocked. Power lines, cable wires and telephone wires have snapped. The city is in a mess,” said an official of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation’s control room.As the storm passed away, the netizens started uploading horrific pictures and videos on social networking sites – exploding transformers, trees getting uprooted, tin roofs and street-hoardings flying like paper sheets and a raging storm that Kolkatans had never seen.“I saw at least two transformers exploding. It was like fireworks during Diwali night. Suddenly the entire area plunged into darkness and since then we have no power. No electronic gadgets are working, I could only charge one mobile with a power bank,” said Arindam Biswas, a resident of Baghajatin area in south Kolkata. With roads blocked by fallen trees, hardly any traffic was seen and shops and markets, too, remained closed on Thursday in the aftermath of the storm. The city had virtually come to standstill.“It was a real lockdown and everyone maintained social distancing. No going out, No mobile phones either,” said Arindam Sen, a resident of Madurdaha in east Kolkata.In the slums, the situation was all the worse. While thousands of shanties were badly damaged as their roofs and walls gave way in the face of the storm and the intense rain, the people either took shelters in nearby schools or in some permanent houses.“We never thought that the storm would be so intense. The civic officials told us to move to the nearby school building. But since we had seen Aila and Bulbul, we thought Amphan would be the same or with a little more intensity. But when it hit, we had nowhere to go. The school was too far. We decided to take shelter in a nearby two-storied house,” said Sheetal, who works as a maid and lives in a shanty near Anandapur in east Kolkata.Several parts of Kolkata, including the NSCBI airport, remained flooded with rainwater. The local municipal corporation is yet to come out with the assessment of the damage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/cyclone-or-earthquake-amphan-s-intensity-left-kolkata-asking-as-buildings-shook/story-biTXgFWtwDPiqeOmLVSDYO.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Four pregnant women test Covid-19 positive in Batala||Four pregnant women belonging to different localities of the town tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) here on Thursday. The victims are residents of Basent Nagar, Dhalla, Bhamboi and Dhadhiala Nazara.Two of the women delivered their children before their test results came in. Senior medical officer Dr Sanjeev Bhalla said the samples of 15 pregnant women, who were undergoing treatment at the civil hospital, were sent to Amritsar for testing. Their contacts are being traced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-pregnant-women-test-covid-19-positive-in-batala/story-uPOadfmBhFxZ3Qz5kRSipN.html
21-05-2020||City||Punjab’s Mohali district tames Covid-19 for now||Mohali residents, and more importantly the front-line warriors, are breathing easy. The district has not reported a single case of Covid-19 since May 10, and on Thursday (May 21), it is left with no active case as two patients who were admitted at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, recovered and were discharged.In the past two months, the district witnessed 105 Covid-19 cases, out of which 102 defeated the virus while three succumbed.Mohali once topped among all districts of Punjab in the number of cases and was considered a hotspot. Of the 105 confirmed cases, 46 were from Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi, while eight were from Nayagaon and other were scattered across the entire district. Among those who have died are a 65-year-old Nayagaon man (March 31), 74-year-old Kharar woman (April 6) and a 74-year-old Zirakpur man Zirakpur (May 7).In the past 10 days, the health department has been taking around 100 samples every day, but all have tested negative so far.Dr Harmandeep Kaur Brar, district’s nodal officer for Covid-19, says: “We have to wait for 28 days after the last positive case to declare the district virus-free,” she said.Adding a note of caution, civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said: “Although there is no case in the district, people should not assume the deadly disease has been fully contained and eradicated. The threat of coronavirus is still there, even as the curfew has been lifted. If we adopt a careless attitude and do not take precautions, the disease can strike back in no time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-s-mohali-district-tames-covid-19-for-now/story-zWjv7KVizau7vUk0PGB4sM.html
21-05-2020||Mumbai||Study reveals marked decline in noise levels in Indian Ocean Region during lockdown||A slump in shipping traffic during the lockdown has resulted in a marked decline in noise levels across the Indian Ocean Region (IOR) – which includes Arabian Sea, Bay of Bengal and the Indian Ocean – a study by Pune’s Maritime Research Centre (MRC) has revealed.The average noise levels in IOR fell from 103.6 decibels (dB) during March to 73.4 dB in May, revealed the study conducted by MRC along with the Foundation for Underwater Domain Awareness, a non-governmental organisation working on marine ecosystem concerns due to acoustic habitat degradation. For a comparison, 103 dB is as loud as a jet flying at 1,000 feet, while 73.4 dB is the sound of a vacuum cleaner. However, measurements in air and water use separate references for dB calculations (1 micro pascal in water and 20 micro pascal in air).Comparative heat maps of shipping traffic during March and May indicated a sharp decline in ocean noise, especially across the east coast and southwestern coastline.“A surge in the shipping traffic witnessed over the past three decades has suddenly plummeted to a level where background ocean noise can be measured. It calls for a major policy rethink on how we can redistribute the traffic to control noise. Using this data, solutions can be put in place to navigate development through a sustainable growth model,” said Arnab Das, author of the study, former commander in the Indian Navy and director, MRC.The reduction in the noise will benefit the marine ecosystem, leading to habitat improvement, the study concluded.“The low frequency ambient noise due to shipping has been documented to have doubled (3 dB) every decade since 1950 forcing the marine ecosystem to bear the brunt of unsustainable development,” said Das.Noise levels more than 120 dB cause discomfort to marine mammals, above 170 dB causes injury (internal injuries, bleeding and haemorrhages) and beyond 200 dB can lead to instant death.“Low frequency ambient noise overlaps with the hearing of marine mammals, particularly big whales. They use sound [sonar] for multiple biologically critical functions like navigation, communication, foraging, finding mates, for breeding and avoiding predators. Increasing ocean noise masks these characteristic abilities. While the lockdown may have its negative impacts, noise reduction comes as a silver lining for relaxed marine environment even if it is for a brief period,” said Das.However, peak noise levels of 94.5 dB had been recorded along the Gujarat and Maharashtra coasts even during the lockdown. The peak was more than 120 dB prior to the lockdown for the entire IOR. A percentage comparison cannot be done in case of dB levels, as it is a logarithmic conversion of the linear scale, and will give a false sense of high or low.“Higher noise towards the Gujarat and Maharashtra areas may be due to cargo movement, which is marginally higher in this region than the rest of the IOR. Oil exploration is also going on as an essential activity,” said Amitabh Kumar, director general (shipping).According to Kumar, the findings of the study were accurate as international trade plummeted considerably during the lockdown months.“We must realise that this traffic constitutes shipping activities in high seas. These are not the ships coming to India, but are the ones using the important IOR route with cargo emanating from the Gulf to be supplied to Asian, Southeast Asia and Eurasian countries. With the reduction in the international trade due to lockdown across countries in these regions, ocean noise is bound to fall. At the same time, many of the ships are being used as storage points for petroleum cargo that use this route, and are currently stationary closer to ports,” said Kumar.However, he also added that the lockdown period was not the apt time to ascertain the safe limits for ocean noise.“The reduction required in activities should be adjudged after the lockdown when international trade is fully functional again. The current drop in noise level is consequential to the slowdown in traffic, which will be nowhere near the levels when operations resume,” Kumar said.MRC’s study used an assessment tool to evaluate real-time low frequency ambient noise variation in the IOR during both time periods using an automated identification system (AIS) which provides the geo-location of ships and catches individual frequency levels through calibrated noise monitors to record the average and peak noises.According to the Indian National Shipowners’ Association, between 2017 and 2019, the estimated capacity of shipping traffic increased from 27,500 metric tonnes (mt) to 35,383 mt, which included navy ships, security vessels, export-import goods, dry cargo, petroleum products, gas load and crude oil.In December 2019, global regulatory body International Maritime Organisation (IMO) had decided to implement noise abatement measures for safe standards at sea, but the decision was opposed by major Southeast Asian countries such as China.An independent expert, who was not part of the study, said that such noise measurement studies were futile if IMO does not declare safe standards.“Only when there is regulation and penalty, can there be restriction in shipping operations to conserve the marine ecosystem. To avoid a surge in marine mammal deaths, shipping operations and international trade needs to be opened up gradually and country specific caps should be in place for movement of vessels within their region,” said E Vivekanandan, marine biologist and emeritus scientist at Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/study-reveals-decline-in-noise-levels-in-indian-ocean-region-during-lockdown/story-KZyDAXX19LuGM9FXjXYQ3H.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Two employees burnt alive in fire at liquor shop in Kaithal||Two people were burnt alive and another sustained burns after fire broke out in a liquor vend in Balu village of Kalayat sub-division here on Wednesday night.The victims are Om Prakash of Kurar village and a migrant labourer Bhagat Singh of Nepal. However, the salesperson, Balinder Singh of Jind, managed to escape.The cause of the blaze has not been ascertained yet. The liquor contractor, Satpal, of the liquor vend has blamed unidentified miscreants for the incident. He said the miscreants set the liquor shop on fire and also locked the main door of the liquor vend from outside after setting it on fire. On being informed if the blaze, Satpal reached the spot around 3am and rescued Balinder while Om and Bhagat burnt alive. Later, the police and fire tenders doused the flames.Kalayat police station in-charge Bilasha Ram said an FIR was lodged under Sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 201 (destroying evidence), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of Rs 50) and 436 (mischief by fire or explosive substance) of the Indian Penal Code against unknown persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-employees-burnt-alive-in-fire-at-liquor-shop-in-kaithal/story-ooy5nd85ItDVE875fUFrNL.html
21-05-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata airport resumes operation post cyclone Amphan||Kolkata airport operation has resumed from 12 pm on Thursday after cyclone Amphan wreaked havoc in the state.“Kolkata airport back to operation from 12 pm today after cyclone Amphan ravaged at a wind speed of 130 km per hour,” read an official statement issued by the Kolkata airport.It further read, “First flight, a chartered plane landed at 14:31 hrs for the evacuation of stranded Russian nationals. The first departure was SpiceJet cargo flight for Delhi.”Earlier today, Rajiv Bansal, Chairman and Managing Director (CMD) of Air India, informed that a small private aircraft that was parked in a hangar has been damaged due to Cyclone Amphan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-airport-resumes-operation-post-cyclone-amphan/story-YiRF5Zi4VLMNVBJQjkIAqI.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Soothsayer vs doomsayer: Astrologers back in demand as anxiety mounts in pandemic times||In the backdrop of many commenting on the worldwide failure at predicting astrologically the onset of Covid-19, P Khurrana, a seasoned astrologer and father of actor Ayushmann Khurrana, says: “I say with pride that I did not make any prediction about the pandemic because my calling is to be a soothsayer and not a doomsayer”.Khurrana, who returned to foretelling what the stars say on May 18, adds: “I can now say that come September and the people will see some relief from the pandemic and life will start returning to normal.”ONLINE COURSESChandigarh-based tarot card reader and astrologer Poonam Sharma says: “I did predict that 2020 would be a difficult one but the prediction of pandemics, natural calamities and public health fall in a line of astrology called mundane science. It’s different from individual astrology done through birth charts that is usually practised by astrologers.Poonam, who is the president of Jyotish Prangan, an organisation of occult sciences, however, dismisses that silence on the pandemic may have shaken the faith of believers. She says, “In fact, more people are now reaching out to know what the future holds for them individually in the changed circumstances. In times of anxiety, people turn to either psychologists or astrologers and I practise in both areas”. She adds that she has been holding online courses in tarot card reading, vastu and aura cleansing and the number of students in all three classes has grown in the lockdown.NAMASTE INDIACity astrologer Madan Gupta Spatu, who belongs to the nearby Spatu town in Himachal Pradesh, says: “The prediction of the pandemic is a thing of the past but now what is being asked of astrologers is when will the pandemic go. To this I will say scientists, doctors or political leaders can’t forecast the exact timing of departure of Covid-19. But where science stops, astrology starts so the countdown will begin in September but the adieu will happen only in November.”Spatu adds that he had predicted that it would be an unusual year and now he predicts that India will lead the world in this decade. “The world is looking up to India for medicine for coronavirus besides practising our age-old rituals such as namaste and washing hands,” he says.FAITH NOT LOSTAstrologers were indeed caught on the wrong foot and the city’s jovial astrologer Bharati, who practises from Sector 49, says: “People do ask why astrologers couldn’t predict such a big calamity. One explains to them the scope of the science. However, the faith of people is not shaken. As long as there is anxiety, want and unhappiness, people will continue to visit astrologers for their share of hope!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/soothsayer-vs-doomsayer-astrologers-back-in-demand-as-anxiety-mounts-in-pandemic-times/story-YS5bCqMccvjNnTGubhoyJI.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Day after death, two-month-old boy tests Covid-19 positive in Amritsar||A two-and-a-half-month-old boy tested positive for Covid-19, a day after he died at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMDH), Amritsar, health officials said on Thursday.GMCH medical superintendent (MS) Dr Raman Sharma said the baby from Navi Abadi area of the city had died at 5pm on Wednesday.He tested positive for Covid-19 at a Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) in Amritsar on Thursday. This is the fifth death in the district due to Covid-19.“The baby was admitted to the pediatric ward of GMCH on May 18 and was found to be suffering from pneumonia. He was also diagnosed with encephalitis and was suspected to have tuberculosis.”“On May 19, his parents noticed that he was finding it difficult to breathe. He was shifted to the isolation ward after he started exhibiting symptoms of Covid-19,” he said.Dr Raman Sharma added that his family was immediately informed about the child’s report. The body of the child has been kept in the mortuary of GMCH.Meanwhile, the health department took the samples of the family members of the child and sent at VRDL for test child’s family and sent it for testing.They have been quarantined at their home for the next 14 days.“The health department also quarantined four doctors of the paediatric ward of GMCH, who treated the child before his death. Their samples will also be sent for testing. The reports of the doctors and the family members will come on Friday”, said a GMCH doctor.TWO MORE TEST COVID-19POSITIVE IN AMRITSARTwo more people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Amritsar.“A 15-year-old child was admitted the paediatric ward of GMCH as he was suffering from diabetes. His swab samples were taken as a precaution and they came positive on Thursday.”A 60-year-old man has also tested positive for the disease.“Both patients are admitted in the isolation ward of GMCH. With this, the district’s tally has reached 314 cases”, said Dr Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/day-after-death-two-month-old-boy-tests-covid-19-positive-in-amritsar/story-apUmKfXx2bR4DKmJ7N2kWJ.html
21-05-2020||Patna||Bihar reports 10th Covid-19 fatality, tally reaches 1872||A 55-year-old migrant from Delhi, who died in Begusarai district a couple of days ago, is Bihar’s 10th Covid 19 casualty, officials said here on Thursday.The health department said the total count of coronavirus positive cases has risen to 1872 in the state. According to State Epidemiologist, Ragini Mishra, the deceased belonged to Khagaria district and he had died at a hospital in Begusarai on May 17 where he was admitted upon a deterioration in his health. “His test reports came out late Wednesday night, confirming that he was infected with the coronavirus, she told PTI-Bhasha The districts health society programme convenor Shailesh Chandra said the cause of the death was a cardiac arrest suffered by the 55-year-old at the Sadar hospital in Begusarai. The state has previously witnessed deaths of nine Covid-19 patients two each from Patna and Vaishali and one each from Munger, East Champaran, Sitamarhi, Rohtas and Khagaria. Meanwhile, the state health department said 96 fresh cases have been reported, raising the states aggregate to 1872. Katihar district, situated in the states north-east corner and sharing its borders with Jharkhand and West Bengal, reported 19 cases. Rohtas and Gopalganj accounted for 17 cases each. Two girls, aged three and four years and residents of Kalyanpur village in Rohtas, were among those who have tested positive. Other districts with a noticeable number of fresh cases are Gopalganj and Samastipur (16 each), Lakhisarai and Sheikhpura (09 each), Purnea (05) and Munger (03). All the 38 districts in the state have reported Covid 19 cases and Patna, Munger and Rohtas happen to be the three worst affected, each of them having tallies in three digits. More than 1,000 cases have been reported in the state in the last three weeks, which has been attributed mainly to the large-scale influx of migrants who have been returning to Bihar from places they had been stuck in during the lockdown. Till Wednesday, the number of migrants testing positive to coronavirus, as stated by the health department, was 788.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-reports-10th-covid-19-fatality-tally-reaches-1872/story-NLFsQ5m5Lv9F3GtQKlG5FI.html
21-05-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand reports 10 new Covid-19 cases, tally rises to 132||As Covid-19 cases continue to rise in Uttarakhand, 10 new cases were detected in the state on Thursday, taking the tally to 132. The state now has 77 active cases with 54 people successfully recovering.So far, 54 migrants returning to the state mostly from Mumbai, Delhi and Gurugram have also tested positive.The afternoon bulletin released by the state health department mentioned that out of the ten cases, eight cases were detected on Wednesday night at 11:30 pm. Five cases were detected from Tehri Garhwal district and three from Dehradun district.The cases from Dehradun include a 55-year-old female who is a resident of Bijnor in Uttar Pradesh but has been undergoing treatment at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh, since May 11. The other two patients include a 20-year-old man who recently returned from Mumbai and a 45-year-old female who is a close contact of an earlier positive case who had returned from Mumbai.From Tehri Garhwal, five men who returned from Mumbai tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday night from the AllMS Rishikesh lab. With these new cases, Tehri Garhwal reported six cases in one day that is Wednesday. Other districts like Dehradun have a total of 51 cases with 21 active cases and Nainital has 26 cases with 16 active cases.Since Thursday morning, two cases have been reported including a 34-year-old man from Dehradun and 19-year-old man from Nainital who had recently travelled from Hyderabad.The health department also mentioned that one Covid-19 positive patient recovered and was discharged from the hospital on Thursday.On Wednesday, Uttarakhand recorded its second-biggest single-day jump with 11 cases being reported from the state. With 15 fresh cases, the state had recorded its biggest single-day jump on May 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-reports-10-new-covid-19-cases-tally-rises-to-132/story-EWCrgRfnArlhgohRWmoEwK.html
21-05-2020||Mumbai||HC discharges PWD engineer booked in irrigation scam related case||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday discharged the then executive engineer of the public works department (PWD) from a case related to the state irrigation scam.Anilkumar Gaikwad, the then executive engineer of presidency division of PWD, was booked by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) in September 2015, along with partners of FA Enterprises - Fateh Mohammed Khatri and his sons Nisar, Jaitun, Aabid and Jahid.According to ACB, the Konkan Irrigation Development Corporation does not allot any contract to a contractor who has already been awarded three dam construction contracts. FA Contractors had six works allotted to it and in order to have more irrigation contracts, formed a new firm--FA Enterprises-- and claimed that it was made by directors who resigned from FA Contractors.Gaikwad is accused of overlooking the rules and forwarding a proposal for registration of FA Enterprises as Class-1A contractor with the government. It was alleged that he forwarded the proposal without proper scrutiny of documents submitted by the contractor.He had moved HC after the special ACB court rejected his discharge plea on March 15, 2019.Justice AM Badar overruled the special court’s order due to lack of evidence against Gaikwad. The judge also took into consideration a government resolution (GR) issued by the PWD on November 28, 2018, that exempted all its employees from penal consequences arising out of the scrutiny of documents submitted by contractors.The judge said that according to the GR, PWD employees or officials who may be entrusted with the work of checking documents submitted by contractors shall not be held responsible for penal consequences in respect of scrutiny of such documents if those turn out to be false and fabricated.“As this GR has retrospective effect, continuation of prosecution against the applicant (Gaikwad) which is essentially with an allegation that he has not ascertained veracity and truthfulness of the documents submitted by the FA Enterprises, would certainly amount to abuse of the process of court,” said justice Badar.The judge also noted that there was hardly any evidence against the PWD engineer. “Perusal of the entire chargesheet does not reveal iota of evidence for even prima facie demonstration of an offence of criminal misconduct on the part of the applicant,” said justice Badar, exonerating Gaikwad.The HC also noted that the entire file relating to registration and certification of FA Enterprises as Class-1A government contractor had gone missing and no original document was available to shed light on the entire episode of registration of FA Enterprises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-discharges-pwd-engineer-booked-in-irrigation-scam-related-case/story-Q6Rv2D7l9CRiZnAZKKYIHK.html
21-05-2020||Noida||Sixth Covid-19 death reported from GB Nagar||A 71-year-old coronavirus positive patient died on Wednesday at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida around 4.30pm, taking th death toll from the disease to six in the district.According to GIMS authorities, the deceased was a resident of Bulandshahr. He was admitted to GIMS around 11pm Tuesday and was suffering from severe acute respiratory infection with severe sepsis.The man was put on ventilator support immediately and was given antibiotics and supportive therapy. His sample for Covid-19 test was taken on his admission and his reports came after his death, around 9pm, on Wednesday.“No post-mortem examination has been performed on the Covid-19 patient and the body will be handed over to his family members. His wife was accompanying him and her samples will also be collected,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, director GIMS.The cause of death is bilateral pneumonia with severe sepsis, he said.The last rites of the deceased will be performed on Thursday. Till now, all the Covid-19 patients who have died in the district are all above the age of 60. All the patients died after developing pneumonia. Six deaths have taken place in the last 13 days in the district.On May 16, a 65-year-old Covid-19 male patient from Sector 8 in Noida died at GIMS at 10.36 pm, where he admitted on May 12. On May 14, a 71-year-old man, a resident of Sector 150 in Noida, who was suffering from cancer, died of multiple organ failure at Delhi’s Lok Nayak Hospital. He had tested Covid-19 positive.On May 12, a 60-year-old man from sector 19 had also died. He was admitted along with his wife after the duo was found positive for Covid-19.On May 8, a 60-year-old man from Sector 22 in Noida had also died after he developed pneumonia at GIMS.On May 8, a 62-year-old man from sector 66 had died. He was under institutional quarantine at the Galgotias hostel which has been running as a government quarantine centre. The person was found lying on the floor of his room and was declared brought dead at GIMS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/sixth-covid-19-death-reported-from-gb-nagar/story-FzHCmGfPDCMWUxVgP0Xk0M.html
21-05-2020||Delhi||Fire breaks out at jewellery showroom in Delhi||A fire broke out at a jewellery showroom near the Rajendra Place area of the national capital on Thursday.Twelve fire tenders are present at the spot and are trying to extinguish the fire.More details awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/fire-breaks-out-at-jewellery-showroom-in-delhi/story-AscYjFXn5NjwGYWMEvFbhK.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Cancer patient tests positive, taking Panchkula count to 26||A 55-year-old man from Sector 2, Panchkula, tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the district’s case count to 26 on Thursday. However, the patient has gone missing from his house, and the health department is questioning the family about his whereabouts. District Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajiv Narwal said the patient had got treated for oral cancer on May 7 at a private hospital in Mumbai, and then visited the Delhi branch of the hospital on May 16 for further treatment including chemotherapy. “Before being admitted to the Delhi hospital, he was tested for Covid-19 and his reports came positive on May 17, according to the family. We have not received any communique from the Delhi hospital,” said Dr Narwal, adding that the family was not quarantined as the patient had not visited his house since his travel in the past 25 days.Sources said the patient is son of a retired IAS officer and might be staying at some relative’s house in Ghaziabad or Noida. Sources also said that a high drama was witnessed when health department and police officials visited the house for inspection and there were arguments between them and the family.Of the 26 patients in the district so far, 23 have been cured and discharged, while one had died after testing negative in the second sample. Besides the recent active case, one active case is being treated at the civil hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/55-year-old-cancer-patient-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-panchkula-taking-district-count-to-26/story-inp7GzybXFpSdcEmUpaaqI.html
21-05-2020||Mumbai||Thousands of migrants gather at grounds in Kandivali in hope of boarding trains||Amid the coronavirus spread, hundreds of migrant labourers on Thursday gathered at the grounds in Kandivali’s Mahavir Nagar in the hope to board Special Shramik trains to return home.Notably, today two out of three trains scheduled to leave from Borivali for Uttar Pradesh, were cancelled today.The police have requested the migrants to return to their shelter homes and vacate the spot as a precautionary measure to halt the spread of the virus.Notably, these special trains had the capacity of 1,200 to 1,700 passengers with maintaining social distancing norms.Under the guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), proper thermal screening of passengers has been ensured before boarding the train.During the journey, passengers are also being given free meals and packaged drinking water, the statement further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thousands-of-migrants-gather-at-grounds-in-kandivali-in-hope-of-boarding-trains/story-1H9A3YwelmeRezG7HJGNdM.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab cop’s son who mysteriously died three years ago was murdered: Police||Police booked three persons on Wednesday for allegedly killing a cop’s son three years ago.The victim, Shagandeep Singh, was the son of inspector Manjit Singh, who was posted as additional station house officer (SHO) at Nabha Kotwali. He was 27-years-old at the time of his death.Shagandeep had gone for a party with the three accused - Jagjit Singh, Dharminder Singh and an unidentified man of Nabha’s Chaudhry Majra village on 14 March, 2017, but he did not return.The accused were the victim’s friends.The inspector received a call from a passerby who found his son lying on the roadside. He was declared brought dead at Nabha civil hospital.Inquest proceedings were initiated under Section 174 of the Code Of Criminal Procedure (CrPc) after conducting the post-mortem. The report revealed that the victim was poisoned to death.SHO Jai Inder Singh Randhawa said, “The motive for murder is unclear as the accused are absconding.”A case has been registered under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cop-s-son-who-mysteriously-died-three-years-ago-was-murdered-police/story-0qsti5yQbHVHpStoXiYDoI.html
21-05-2020||Delhi||E-funerals become the new normal during lockdown||Be it any religion, the rituals of saying final goodbyes to the dead run deep in every faith. But the pandemic has robbed families of this tradition, as priests and closed ones have started relying on technology for funerals. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has also ruled out that in case of funerals, congregation of more than twenty people will not be permitted.Recently, it was reported that fashion designer Riddhima Kapoor Sahni also attended the last rites of her father actor Rishi Kapoor virtually through a video call. And actor Sanjay Suri took to twitter about how he attended his wife’s grandmother’s funeral through a zoom call. Indeed, lockdown has changed the way the country mourns its dead.Cyril Benedict, a bank manager in Delhi, had to watch his 88-year-old uncle’s funeral online recently as he was unable to go to his native city Patna due to travel restrictions. He says, “Unable to see or touch a loved one in their final hours or grieve together with family is hard. However, the tech workaround made a good option and I could at least pay my last respects through a WhatsApp video call.” He adds, “After lockdown, we will hold a memorial and celebrate my uncle’s life who died of a terminal disease. It’s not cremations but hearts that connects families.”Similarly, 80-year-old Mahadev Ekka of Ranchi who died due to old age ailments had a quiet funeral with only six family members. His elder son Jahaan Ekka, who works in Delhi, couldn’t reach his village and thus had to watch the funeral pyre on his laptop screen. Jahaan says, “Showing compassion from the far end of a laptop or mobile is strange but it made me feel closer to my family. If I had been there, I would have probably not been as sane as I am now. We understand the gravity of the situation and would be there for each other, at least virtually.”Read: Vienna funerals go online amid coronavirus fearsEven before lockdown, when extended families couldn’t join the last rites, neighbours poured in to offer their condolences. However, all they can do now is a phone call. “Ours is a very close-knit colony and we celebrate each loss and happiness together – be it birth or death. But after lockdown, when a neighbour of ours passed away, we decided it wasn’t safe to visit the family so resorted to offer virtual condolences. We would make up for it once things improve,” says Shahid Md, a resident of Geeta Colony, Delhi.All such rituals, mass or prayers have to wait till after the lockdown, say those that perform such services.Pandit Jitender Sharma, a Hindu priest says, “My whole generation has been conducting last rites and never have we seen such a time where people had to attend last rites virtually. We have seen people break down and hug each other at cremation grounds, it’s what brings comfort. But they can’t do that now. Bahut bura lagta hai dekh kar ki aise samay mein log akele rote hai.” A few days ago, Fr. Satya, a Roman Catholic priest performed the anointing rites of an elderly woman as she lay on her final hours in her home in Delhi. Her son used video call to patch in the priest who put on his cloak and did the virtual anointing and prayer. “The Vatican has also waived the requirement of in person prayer and said prayers delivered over video calls would have the same spiritual effect. It’s the best we can do at the moment. We haven’t lost the religiosity per say but just adopted a practical way to keep people safe.” Follow @htcity for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/e-funerals-become-the-new-normal-during-lockdown/story-9daynk5yTU32xxSM9PWTqJ.html
21-05-2020||Bangalore||Migrant worker from MP collapses and dies before boarding train in Karnataka||Tragedy struck an elderly migrant worker who was looking forward to joining his family as he died on reaching a nearby railway station to board a Shramik Special train to his home state Madhya Pradesh, police said on Thursday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe 69-year old man, who worked in a coffee estate in Chikkamagaluru, collapsed and died soon after getting down from a state-run KSRTC bus that brought him and others to the Chikkabanavara Railway station on Wednesday.According to police, fellow labourers said he had been ailing for quite some time.The cause of his death would be known only after a post-mortem, police added.Karnataka government has been sending back thousands of migrant workers stranded in the state due to the Covid-19 lockdown by arranging the special trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/migrant-worker-from-mp-collapses-and-dies-before-boarding-train-in-karnataka/story-YQ2e06mch7t6H52Rv5SmsK.html
21-05-2020||Lucknow||UP govt imprisoning those that are helping migrants: Priyanka Gandhi||A day after the standoff between the BJP-led Uttar Pradesh government and the Congress over the latter’s offer to provide 1,000 buses for migrants, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra claimed those trying to help stranded labourers are being jailed and asked party workers to carry on with the fight.Uttar Pradesh Congress chief was arrested twice on Wednesday -- first in Agra for sitting on a dharna to protest against UP government not granting permission to allow buses arranged for migrants by the Congress enter the state. He was granted bail by an Agra court and released, before being rearrested by a team of Lucknow police in a second case filed here in connection with the Congress’ standoff with the state government.“Have you seen the the method of Yogi (Adityanath) government to fight the coronavirus epidemic? When the Congress arranged buses for migrant labourers, the Yogi government sent Uttar Pradesh Congress president to jail in a false case,” Priyanka Gandhi, the general secretary of the party, said in a message.The party’s Uttar Pradesh unit’s media convenor said Lallan Kumar said she asked the party workers not to be afraid and carry on the fight for the migrant workers. Gandhi said, “The entire nation is standing united to fight the epidemic but the UP government is putting those making arrangements of bus, train tickets, food and ration for the labourers in jail.” Referring to the 30th death anniversary of her father, former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, she has said, “Rajiv ji gave his life for the country. He loved Hindustan and its people. He could not see their pain. We have learnt from him to help the weak.” Lalan said that Priyanka Gandhi has called upon about 50,000 Congress workers of the state to raise their voices for the labourers through ‘Facebook live’ on Thursday against the “oppression”, as that would be the “proper tribute for Rajiv Gandhi”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-govt-imprisoning-those-that-are-helping-migrants-priyanka-gandhi/story-osEASBM35pRJeLHcmUVzQM.html
21-05-2020||Pune||174 coronavirus patients found in Pune district, 14 deaths||Pune district reported 174 new coronavirus patients on Wednesday, taking the tally of cases to 4,544, while the death toll reached 235 after 14 people, highest in a day,succumbed to the infection.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageOf the 174 cases, 150 were detected in Pune city, seven in Pimpri Chinchwad and 17 in cantonment and rural areas, said a health official.The number of coronavirus cases in Pune city, Pimpri Chinchwad and rural areas is 3,932, 234 and 378, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/174-coronavirus-patients-found-in-pune-district-14-deaths/story-O74FrVHjcinAxLSTQSZSQL.html
21-05-2020||Pune||Maharashtra: 43-year-old cop dies of Covid-19 in Pune||A 43-year-old police constable, who had tested positive for Covid-19, succumbed to the deadly infection at a hospital in Maharashtra’s Pune city on Thursday, a senior police official said.The constable was attached to the traffic branch of Pune police and was undergoing treatment at Bharti Hospital since May 10, the official said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe infected policeman was on ventilator support and died on Thursday morning, he said.At least 26 personnel attached to Pune police have tested positive for Covid-19 so far, of which 14 have recovered from the infection and two have died.The constable is the second coronavirus casualty in Pune police, after a 57-year-old assistant sub-inspector died of the infection earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/maharashtra-43-year-old-cop-dies-of-covid-19-in-pune/story-qjjEzt9pgCZmPjAansrAkK.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||J&K edu secy believes govt teachers shoudn’t send their kids to pvt schools, courts controversy||Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) education secretary Asgar Hassan Samoon courted controversy when he criticised government teachers for enrolling their children in private schools.Samoon, who hails from Kashmir’s remote Gurez Valley, has made it his mission to bring government schools in par with private schools and in his opinion one way to do it is to have the teachers’ children themselves study at the schools.His attempts have been dismissed by his detractors as ways to garner headlines. This will hardly make any impact. The education secretary is only trying to grab news headlines,’’ said Ahmad Bashir, a former government teacher.CONTROVERSIAL TWEETSTaking a jibe at teachers, Samoon had tweeted, “I often wonder why government school teachers in JKUT enrol their own children in the very private schools whose contribution to quality education they don’t wish to acknowledge. A strange paradox indeed. It speaks volumes about quality education that we all aspire for in government schools.”Announcing the suspension of Anantnag chief education officer, Samoon had tweeted, “Shocked to know that middle school in Monghal, Anantnag, has 15 teachers and 13 students. Those who don’t teach don’t deserve mercy. Directors should explain why teacher deployments were not rationalised despite HLG directions. Anantnag CEO has been placed under suspension. Follow rules or face action.”‘SAMOON IS VYING FOR REAL CHANGE’ However, not everyone is critical of Samoon, some officials, who had previously served at the department said Samoon was simply trying to revamp the education system.However, many held that he will ultimately not been able to make any impact like former IAS officer Shah Faesal, who as Kashmir education director had tried to bring change in government schools.Faisal was removed from the department after coming under criticism from various teachers’ bodies.J&K Teachers’ Forum general secretary Rafiq Ahmad Rather said, “Teachers with influential backgrounds or relatives of bureaucrats are not transferred out of cities.”Rather said enrolling children in government schools should not only be made mandatory for teachers but also for bureaucrats. “Only then will these schools see improvement,” he added.Some people also believe that Samoon has a soft corner towards people running private schools in Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-edu-secy-believes-govt-teachers-shoudn-t-send-their-kids-to-pvt-schools-courts-controversy/story-YCpw5Jo2rjUPpW2pBEvSXM.html
21-05-2020||Lucknow||Shivling, carvings on sandstone found at Ram Janmabhoomi site: Temple trust||Carvings on sandstone and a Shivling have been found during the land levelling work at Ram Janmabhoomi here, said Champat Rai, General Secretary of the Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirth Kshetra Trust.“Debris is being removed and land being levelled at Ram Janmabhoomi since past 10 days. We have discovered pillars in the debris of the structure and carvings on sandstone. Found a Shivling there and a similar one at Kuber Teela,” Champat Rai said.According to a statement, the land levelling work started at Ram Janmabhoomi after due permission from district authorities. In March this year, ‘Ram Lalla’ idol was shifted to a temporary structure near Manas Bhawan in Ram Janmabhoomi premises, till completion of the construction of Ram Temple.In a historic decision, the Supreme Court had on November 9 last year directed the Central government to hand over the site at Ayodhya for the construction of a temple and set up a trust for the same. The apex court had further directed the government to give a suitable land measuring five acres to the Sunni Waqf Board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/shivling-carvings-on-sandstone-found-at-ram-janmabhoomi-site-temple-trust/story-61yY7JCMpWgvKNHoI9PwbL.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab asks teachers to check smuggling of Teacher’s, withdraws orders hours later||Desperate times call for desperate measures. The Punjab government, which has been rattled by recurring incidents of liquor smuggling and losses in excise collection, deputed school teachers at distilleries to keep a check on the supply. Hours later, it withdrew the orders after media reports sparked an outrage.It all began when the Gurdaspur district administration on Wednesday asked 24 teachers to keep an eye on smuggling of popular brands such as Rass Bhari, Rano Sofi, Asli Mota Santra and Punjab King.The Gurdaspur deputy commissioner’s office posted the teachers outside four distilleries owned by prominent liquor barons.The orders were issued by the assistant commissioner (general) Raman Kochar, on behalf of deputy commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq. But the district administration revoked its decision on Thursday afternoon after facing flak for the decision. Kochar, in his order on behalf of the DC, said, “Teachers’ duties at liquor factories have been cancelled with immediate effect.”With schools closed in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, teachers are already stretched thin with conducting online classes, distributing mid-day meals, books, facilitating online admissions, screening migrant labourers at bus stops and railway stations and checking at inter-state borders.WAS SAFEGUARDING REVENUE: DCThe earlier order said that in view of the Covid-19 crisis, teachers have been deployed at liquor factories as executive magistrates and will submit their report to the Batala tehsildar daily.“In case of negligence, a first information report (FIR) under Section 188 (disobeying a public servant’s order) of the Indian Penal Code will be registered against them,” the order had said.Backing the earlier decision, Ishfaq said, “There’s nothing wrong in using the services of teachers. We deployed teachers at liquor factories to utilise manpower. The state government has declared each government employee an executive magistrate.”“The decision was taken to curb liquor smuggling. We are only trying to safeguard the government’s revenue,” said Ishfaq, a lateral entry Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer who was formerly an engineer in public health and has no experience in civil administration.ORDER RAISES EYEBROWSMeanwhile, the deputy commissioner of another district in Punjab, requesting anonymity, said, “There is no way I would allow this in my district. It is not for teachers to keep an eye on the supply of alcohol.”Democratic Teachers’ Front (DTF) president Davinder Singh Punia said, “This is against the dignity of teachers. We demanded the immediate revocation of this order and strict action against officials who assigned these duties. Has the Punjab government fallen on such hard times that they are using teachers to check liquor smuggling?”When contacted, state education minister Vijay Inder Singla said, “The deputy commissioner has taken this decision at his own level. I have told the secretary to speak to him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-punjab-teachers-to-check-smuggling-of-teacher-s/story-eLSz59xvoUTizmFTnUa7eO.html
21-05-2020||Jaipur||Record number of workers employed under MGNREGA in Rajasthan: Deputy CM||The number of labourers in Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) in Rajasthan has gone up to 35.59 lakh, which is the highest in the state in the last 10 years, Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot said on Wednesday. Pilot, who is also holds the rural development and panchayati raj porfolios, said MGNREGA has proved to be helpful during coronavirus pandemic by providing employment in rural areas. He said the number of labourers under MGNREGA in the state has increased to 35.59 lakh, which is the highest in 10 years. Pilot informed that a 100-day action plan was chalked out in January last year under which each work of pasture development, model pond development, funeral/burial ground development and sports ground development works were approved in each gram panchayat. Taking this a step further, ‘Ek Gram-Char Kaam’ campaign is currently being run under which these works are being done on priority basis in each revenue village of the state. He informed that under this campaign, 36,679 works have been sanctioned in the state so far including 9,281 pasture development, 9,090 model reservoir development, 9,589 funeral/burial ground development and 8,719 sports ground development works.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/record-number-of-workers-employed-under-mgnrega-in-rajasthan-deputy-cm/story-s8tlsLDse8sBCJvxb0CScK.html
21-05-2020||Kolkata||Cyclone Amphan weakens significantly, currently lays over Bangladesh: IMD||The India Meteorological Department said on Thursday that ‘Amphan’ has weakened significantly and moved over to Bangladesh as a cyclonic storm after clobbering West Bengal, leaving at least 12 dead and blowing up shanties, uprooting thousands of trees and swamping low-lying areas.In the next three to six hours it will further dissipate into a deep depression and a depression, the two stages that signify a further weakening of the cyclone, it said.The IMD said under the influence of the storm, squalls with wind speed 30 to 40 kilometres per hour are very likely in Meghalaya and west Assam during the next 12 hours.The western districts of Assam and Meghalaya will also witness “light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy to very heavy falls at isolated places”, it added.According to the weatherman, Amphan was the fiercest cyclone to hit West Bengal in the last 100 years.The extremely severe cyclone packing winds of up to 190 kmph rampaged through coastal Odisha and West Bengal on Wednesday, dumping heavy rain, swamping homes and farmland.Kolkata and several other parts of West Bengal wore a battered look on Thursday after the extremely severe cyclone ‘Amphan’ ripped through the state.Large parts of Kolkata and other affected districts were without electricity as power poles had been blown away. Mobile and internet services were also down as the cyclone had damaged several communication towers Senior state officials said it was too early to estimate a toll on life or damage to property as the hardest-hit areas were still not accessible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/cyclone-amphan-weakens-significantly-currently-lays-over-bangladesh-imd/story-UaiMi4EfujzB0zLy2hfz3N.html
21-05-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan BJP accuses Congress govt of doing politics on migrants issue||BJP leaders in Rajasthan on Wednesday accused the Congress government in the state of doing politics on the issue of migrant labourers.BJP state president Satish Poonia said the Congress party staged a “drama” on the UP border for three days where buses were brought under pressure from the state government.“It is unfortunate that politics was done in the name of migrant labourers by the government and Congress leaders for pleasing Priyanka Gandhi,” Poonia said.He said a large number of migrant workers had to walk for hundreds of kilometres in an attempt to return home but the state government did not care for them.Leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria said the situation in the state worsened due to wrong policies of the government.He said migrants were walking through forest areas to reach Banswara, Dungarpur, Udaipur and there was no arrangement to screen them for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-bjp-accuses-congress-govt-of-doing-politics-on-migrants-issue/story-KBg9ufIVUjaxqKtzPu3MRJ.html
21-05-2020||Jaipur||With 3 more deaths, Covid-19 fatalities rise to 150 in Rajasthan||Rajasthan on Thursday recorded three more deaths due to coronavirus and 83 new cases of the disease, officials said.The number of cases in the state now stands at 6,098 and fatalities at 150.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Three more deaths were recorded, including one each in Sikar, Jaipur and Bharatpur. As many as 83 fresh cases were reported in the state,” additional chief secretary (health), Rohit Kumar Singh said.Of the 83 fresh cases, Dungarpur recorded 28 cases followed by 10 in Udaipur, eight each in Nagaur and Jaipur, six each in Rajsamand and Bikaner, four in Alwar, two each in Kota, Ajmer, Jhunjhunu, Bhilwara and Barmer and one each in Jaisalmer and Jhalawar. One patient belongs to Uttar Pradesh, officials said.A total 3,421 patients have recovered and 3,031 have been discharged. There are 2,527 active cases in the state, they said.Massive screening and search is underway to trace the contagion, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/with-3-more-deaths-covid-19-fatalities-rise-to-150-in-rajasthan/story-CpO5g0iU5Rg2NdKb12ETCJ.html
21-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi hospital issues notice to quarantined staff for vacating hotel, dharamshala rooms||Delhi’s Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital (LNJP) Hospital has issued a notice to all its quarantined staff to vacate the hotel or dharamshala rooms arranged by the hospital authorities by 12 pm on Thursday.The order cites the guidelines of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.The order issued by LNJP’s medical director Suresh Kumar states that the hospital will not spend money after May 21 and the guest will have to bear the expenses himself or herself.The Delhi government had earlier decided that the doctor, nurses or paramedical staff engaged in the treatment of coronavirus patients will work continuously for 14 days, after which they will get 14 days rest.A 14-day rest meant that they should be quarantined so that even if there is any kind of infection, their family will not be harmed. It was also decided that the LNJP Hospital would make arrangements for all such people to stay in the hotels or dharamshala or any other place. The hospital was to bear all the expenses.But now, citing the guidelines of the Union Health Ministry, the hospital order stated that the medical staff should vacate the hotel or dharamshala rooms.However opposing this move, the Resident Doctors Association has written a letter to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan stating, “The coronavirus can show its effect by two to 14 days. Non-symptomatic healthcare workers have been found to be coronavirus positive in many cases even after wearing PPE kits.”“After duty, the staff should be quarantined and they should be tested for Covid-19 even if they do not show any symptom or wear PPE kits... It is important. Removing this system will increase the risk of the virus spreading to doctors, their families, patients and the community. Therefore, amend the recently released guidelines and give relief to the corona warriors of the country,” the letter further read. According to the Centre’s new guidelines for the healthcare workers issued on May 15, “only healthcare workers with high-risk contacts will be in quarantine who have handled coronavirus patients without proper PPE or who have symptoms”.Based on the guidelines of the central government, Delhi Health Secretary Padmini Singla also issued orders. After the order of Health Secretary, the Medical Director of LNJP Hospital has also issued orders in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hospital-issues-notice-to-quarantined-staff-for-vacating-hotel-dharamshala-rooms/story-oabm3Q12gzDzqfzw0IFAyI.html
21-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi violence: Court sends Jamia student to 7-day police custody||A Delhi court Wednesday sent Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) university student Asif Iqbal Tanha to 7-day police custody in a case related to communal violence in northeast Delhi during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act in February.Additional Sessions Judge Ajay Kumar Jain sent him to the custody till May 27 after the police said it required his remand to unearth the entire conspiracy with respect to the communal violence in Delhi and to confront him with the electronic data collected during investigation.Tanha, a third-year student of BA in Persian language, was earlier arrested in connection with the violence in the Jamia area during a protest against the CAA in December last year. He was sent to judicial custody on till May 31 in the case.The police had said that Tanha, a resident of Abul Fazal Enclave in Shaheen Bagh, was a member of the Students Islamic Organization and was part of the Jamia Coordination Committee which spearheaded protests against the new citizenship law.“Asif is a key member of the Jamia Coordination Committee and played an active role in organising protests and riots in Jamia in December 2019. He is a close associate of Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam, Meeran Haider and Safoora Zargar who had been key organisers of anti-CAA protests and subsequent riots,” police had said.On December 15 last year, protesters had turned violent, torching four public buses and two police vehicles and pelting stones at the police and civilians, near JMI. At least 40 people including students, policemen and fire fighters were injured in the incident.Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-violence-court-sends-jamia-student-to-7-day-police-custody/story-6DZldbFPAWUgVVtICKsunK.html
21-05-2020||Delhi||All benches of Delhi HC to take up urgent matters via video conferencing from Friday||The Delhi High Court has decided that from Friday all its judges will sit everyday to take up “urgent matters of all kinds” via video conferencing.The step follows the high court and the lower courts together having taken up 20,726 urgent matters during the Covid-19 related lockdown from March 24 to May 19 “As per the latest initiative taken by Chief Justice D N Patel and other Judges of the High Court of Delhi,  now, w.e.f. May 22, 2020, all the division benches and all the single-judge benches shall take up urgent matters of all kinds, through video conferencing, during the suspended functioning of the Court.“All such benches would sit daily on all the working days,” said a note, issued by the office of high court Registrar General Manoj Jain.Till now, urgent matters were being taken up by two division benches and ten single-judge benches, but the judges of these benches were sitting on rotation basis.There are presently seven division benches and 19 single-judge benches in the high court.The note further said that the roster benches would also take up the matters which are at the stage of final arguments and in which consent has been received from both the sides agreeing for disposal of case on the basis of written submissions alone. It also said that the existing procedure of mentioning of urgent matters, via weblink before joint registrar concerned, would continue to be in force till further orders.“Non-urgent matters shall be taken up by the roster benches on resumption of regular hearings and as per the order of Chief Justice,” it also said.The seven division benches and 19 single-judge benches are also referred to as roster benches as each of them deal with cases based on specific categories (or roster) decided by the Chief Justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/all-benches-of-delhi-hc-to-take-up-urgent-matters-via-video-conferencing-from-friday/story-eNlD201r49Xuzo4HXc5veI.html
21-05-2020||Ranchi||Liquor shops open amid tight security in Jharkhand||Liquor shops opened across Jharkhand on Wednesday amid tight security following latest lockdown relaxations issued by the state government.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThough liquor outlets had resumed service in the other states earlier, in Jharkhand the wine shops started functioning from Wednesday after prolonged shutdown due to imposition of coronavirus-induced lockdown in March end.Rush of tipplers were witnessed at the vends in the state capital, but there was no report of any untoward incident, sub-divisional officer Lokesh Mishra said.The Ranchi district administration had drawn circles in front of the wine shops to ensure that purchasers maintain social distancing while standing in the queue, he said.Patrolling magistrates and security men moved around in the city during the day to maintain law and order, the officer said in a statement here.The state government had on May 18 permitted among other activities opening of retail liquor shops during lockdown 4.0.There was no report of any unpleasant incident from other places in the state on account of liquor shops resuming business, the police sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/liquor-shops-open-amid-tight-security-in-jharkhand/story-mva0FmC8ChzgK05Y1Q6FvJ.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Covid-19 count climbs to 218, only 37 active||Chandigarh reported 13 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the tally of confirmed cases to 218.However, 39 patients were discharged from the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) and the ayurvedic college in Sector 46. With 124 people being discharged in three days, the total number has reached 178, and the recovery rate has shot up to 81%.Also, only 37 active cases remain in the city, which has also reported three deaths so far.Among the fresh cases, one case has been reported from Sector 30 while the remaining are from the congested Bapu Dham Colony containment zone in Sector 26.An official spokesperson said of the 12 positive cases in the colony, nine are members of two households on different floors of one building, while two are from another house and one from elsewhere in the locality. As many as 146 persons have been infected in Bapu Dham Colony, which accounts for 67% cases in the city. It remains a hotspot in the city with the UT administrator calling for extensive screening and testing to contain the situation in the congested colony.In Sector 30, a woman who was attending to her three-year-old Covid-infected daughter at the PGIMER has been found to be positive.Meanwhile, contacts of another patient from Dhanas, who had tested positive on May 19 after returning from Delhi, have tested negative. 115 DISCHARGED UNDER REVISED POLICYThe revised policy allows for discharging asymptomatic patients from Covid-19 hospital without testing. Earlier the patients were only discharged after two consecutive tests turned negative in 24 hours.Out of the 124 persons discharged since May 19, only nine were tested as per the previous central government discharge policy. The remaining have been discharged without any testing and sent to post-discharge Covid-19 centre established at Sood Dharamshala, Sector 22, shooting up the recovery rate On May 18, the recovery rate in the city was 27%, an 11 percentage points below the national average of 38%. While the national average on May 21 stood at 40.32%, the city’s recovery rate increased to 81% as the new policy set in. Significantly, in the daily review meeting on Thursday, UT administrator VPS Badnore expressed satisfaction about “substantial improvement in recovery rate and doubling rate”.The PGIMER had earlier decided to stick to the old discharge policy until the UT administrator advised the institute to enforce the new policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-s-corona-count-climbs-to-216-with-11-new-cases-from-containment-zone/story-MgTDq6SFTahQVnkCBRL1QK.html
21-05-2020||Mumbai||Ready action plan on limited resumption of film shoots:Maharashtra CM||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday asked the entertainment industry to prepare an action plan on limited resumption of film shooting and post-production activities by adhering to social distancing norms amidst the coronavirus-induced lockdown.Thackeray, however, ruled out reopening of cinema halls or theatres anytime soon.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageShooting for films as well as other production activities remained suspended since mid-March in view of the coronavirus pandemic.“The government would consider an action plan on how shooting and post-production activities can be resumed in a limited way by adhering to social distancing and other norms,” Thackeray told a delegation of representatives of the entertainment industry, especially from the Marathi theatre, television and cinema.The prominent demands of the industry included saving single-screen theatres, helping poor music composers, and waiving GST on film production.Thackeray told the delegates that he didn’t believe that clamping of lockdown meant everything coming to a standstill.“We have allowed industries, trade and shops to open by taking all the precautions. Commercial activities have also started in the state barring the containment zones,” an official statement quoted Thackeray as saying on the occasion.The CM said the huge entertainment industry comprises various elements like actors, backstage artists, technicians and workers.Thackeray said his government would consider providing rent concessions to production houses which have their sets erected in the Film City and supporting folk artists.Referring to the demand of producers to allow resumption of shootings and post-production work, the CM said the demand can be considered in “non-red” zones in the state.“However, care will have to be taken to ensure that locations for shooting a film are not situated in the containment zones and that the number of people on the sets and their hygiene taken care of,” he stated.For editing studios,guidelines will have to be issued regarding the space and air conditioning system, he said.The CM also asked the state Culture department and producers to check if some shootings can take place before the start of the monsoon, the statement said.Shooting of about 70 Hindi and 40 Marathi films, 10 web series had stopped because of the coronavirus pandemic, which has affected the livelihood of more than three lakh workers and technicians, it said.As per estimates, 30,000 episodes oftelevision content are produced every year.“The total investment in Hindi television is Rs 5000 crore and in Marathi it is Rs 250 crore,” the statement quoted the delegation telling the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ready-action-plan-on-limited-resumption-of-film-shoots-maharashtra-cm/story-oIAT4X16dBVOS0ucuIhBUK.html
21-05-2020||Lucknow||26 more Coronavirus cases reported in Uttar Pradesh: Report||Out of 827 samples tested on Wednesday at the King George’s Medical University (KGMU) microbiology department, 26 samples have tested positive for Covid-19, said KGMU, Lucknow. Out of the 26 Covid-19 positive cases, three are from Hardoi, three from Kannauj, four from Shahjahanpur, two from Sambhal, seven from Aligarh, four from Unnao and three from Moradabad.Meanwhile, with a spike of 5,609 Covid-19 cases and 132 deaths in the last 24 hours the total number of cases in the country now stands at 1,12,359, including 63,624 active cases and 3,435 deaths, said Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/26-more-coronavirus-cases-reported-in-uttar-pradesh-report/story-fInokfMx9EYZbM6XxKUkXN.html
21-05-2020||Lucknow||Former Shiv Sena district chief shot dead in UP’s Rampur||Former Shiv Sena district chief Anurag Sharma was allegedly shot dead by two unidentified miscreants in Rampur on Wednesday, the police said.Minutes after the incident, Sharma was rushed to the hospital where he was declared brought dead.SP Rampur Shagun Gautam told ANI that the incident took place at around 8 PM in Jwala Nagar of the city yesterday while Sharma was returning home on a two-wheeler.“40-year-old Anurag Sharma was shot dead by two unidentified men yesterday evening while he was going home on a scooter. This happened at Jwala Nagar. He received two bullet shots. Also, after his death, the hospital was vandalised. The family complained that there was no staff present when Sharma was taken for the treatment,” he said.The suspects are on the run and the efforts are on to nab them, Gautam added.The investigation into the matter is underway and an FIR will soon be registered in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/former-shiv-sena-district-chief-shot-dead-by-miscreants-in-up-s-rampur/story-KFYDKEgJjazMcD711MqzPN.html
21-05-2020||Noida||Urban areas of Ghaziabad, Noida back in Covid-19 red zone||The Uttar Pradesh government has issued directions and categorised urban areas of Ghaziabad district under the red zone on late on Wednesday night. The government has also listed the urban areas of Gautam Budh Nagar, Meerut, Agra and Kanpur City under the red zone.“The directions came late Wednesday on night and the urban areas of Ghaziabad district are now in red zone. As per earlier classification by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the district was under orange zone. So now, the city areas have slipped into red zone where activities will be allowed but they will be restricted,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.The urban areas in Ghaziabad include localities of Kaushambi, Vaishali, Indirapuram, Vasundhra, Sahibabad, Raj Nagar Extension, Crossings Republik, Raj Nagar, Kavi Nagar among others.Under the new guidelines issued by Minstry of Home Affairs on May 17, states and union territories (UTs) were given powers to delineate red, green and orange zones while taking into consideration the parametres shared by the health ministry.The zones can be a district, or a municipal corporation/municipality or even smaller administrative units such as sub-divisions, etc, as decided by respective states and UTs.Within the red and orange zones, containment and buffer zones will be demarcated by the local authorities after taking into consideration the guidelines of the health ministry.“The red zone for Ghaziabad’s urban area was decided on the number of parametres like total active cases, active cases per lakh of population, rate of doubling of cases, fatality rate, testing ratio and positive sample rate. As per our assessment, we have three containment zones of Khoda, Jhandapur in Sahibabad and Vaishali Sector 1 where there are more positive cases and precaution is needed in these areas,” CMO Dr Gupta added.Under the containment zones, only essential activities are allowed with stricter perimetre control. No movement of persons is allowed except for medical emergencies and for maintaining essential supplies.“In the containment zones we have deployed teams which are taking up surveillance activities like door to door surveys, sampling and sanitization etc,” Dr Gupta added.Till Wednesday night, the tally of the Covid-19 positive patients in Ghaziabad stood at 196 with 161 of these discharged from different hospitals.The number of active cases now stands at 33.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/urban-areas-of-ghaziabad-noida-back-in-covid-19-red-zone/story-oGV1MTmGmaN69sQkDoHQzN.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Srinagar gunfight: As 21 families go homeless, Kashmiris call for donations to rebuild their houses||As 21 families went homeless after their houses were destroyed during a gunfight in downtown Srinagar on Tuesday, Kashmiris have appealed for helping the affected people.While the administration is yet to announce relief to the families, the social media community, comprising locals and several non-resident Kashmiris, has already started online campaigns to raise donations for the reconstruction of their houses at the earliest.The local mosque at Kanimazar Nawa Kadal, where the gunfight took place, has also taken the responsibility of relief and reconstruction to mitigate the sufferings of these families.Abdul Raheem Dar, president of Intizamia Committee Majid Hanfia Kanimazar, said the losses have been pegged at around ₹12-15 crores, including the household belongings.“It’s a chunk of land where 19 houses have either been completely damaged or become unliveable. Some 21 families that resided here are now homeless,” Dar said adding, “Not only the houses but all their valuables have been destroyed. Gold ornaments got melted due to the fire.”The houses were damaged in the blaze that erupted after several blasts and exchange of fire between militants and security forces during a 12-hour encounter in Nawa Kadal area of Srinagar on Tuesday. Two militants were killed while three CRPF personnel and a policeman were injured during the encounter.Srinagar deputy commissioner Shahid Choudhary said a team of district administration visited the place to assess the damages. “We will be reaching out to the affected people after getting the assessment report,” he said.Dar said they have started collecting donations from people for the affected families, most of which are poor, to either reconstruct the houses or handover money to the families so that they could rebuild their homes. The account details have been shared on the social media.Dar, however, claimed they were facing police harassment for installing a donation kiosk near the mosque. “Though we take proper precautions, people come from different places to take a stock of the damage. We have been maintaining social distancing and using masks and sanitisers,” he said.On social media, people have been vigorously calling for help to the homeless persons. “My dear Kashmiri brethren, this is a humble appeal. We’re all deeply impacted by #Nawakadal & alhumdullilah have come together to rebuild homes for our people. A corpus of ₹10 lakh has already been committed by an anonymous Kashmiri,” wrote Shazia Bakshi, a netizen.“Residents of Kanimazar are leading the initiative to assist 15 families whose houses were destroyed in the encounter. Friends, please generously donate,” wrote Khuram Parvez, a prominent human rights activist.However, BJP state spokesperson Altaf Thakur was against any relief to the affected. He said harbouring terrorists is tantamount to offence and the families deserve no sympathy. “During the gunfight, terrorists moved from one house to another as they had strategically selected a place where they could hide and escape from. They have been involved in an offence and don’t deserve any compensation,” he held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/srinagar-gunfight-as-21-families-go-homeless-kashmiris-call-for-donations-to-rebuild-their-houses/story-SB6xOqQx1SFjYGWYyF2xPI.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||89,000 people stranded in Himachal keen to return home||Around 89,000 people from other states, who were stranded in Himachal Pradesh due to the imposition of the lockdown, have expressed desire to return. Around 37,054 people, mostly migrant labourers, are from Uttar Pradesh; 23,849 are from Bihar; 5,104 are from Punjab; 3,699 from Madhya Pradesh; 3,527 from Jharkhand; 3,196 from West Bengal; 2,407 from Harayana; 2,394 from Uttarakhand; 1,600 from Delhi; 1,746 from Chandigarh; and 1,027 from Rajasthan.The remaining people are from an assortment of other states. One person is from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands.Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said the state government was coordinating with other states to send stranded people home.HIMACHALIS STRANDED IN NORTH-EAST TO RETURN SOONThakur said people stuck in the north-eastern states will return to Himachal soon.A total of 364 people from Himachal are stranded in Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim and Tripura.“Railways, on the state government’s request, will run a special train from Jalpaiguri (West Bengal) to bring them home,” said Thakur.“The state government will proportionally bear the rail fare,” he added.On May 18, Thakur had asked his Punjab and Haryana counterparts to pitch in for starting a common train for evacuating people of the three states stranded in the North-East.Apart from Jalpaiguri, special trains will be run from Thane to Pathankot and Ahemadabad to Una to bring back stranded Himachalis.64,000 WAIT TO RETURN TO HPAs many as 64,678 people from Himachal, who are stranded in other states, want to return home. Around 10,349 of them are stranded in Punjab; 9,694 in Delhi and; 7,636 in Haryana.As many as 7,086 people want to return from Maharashtra; 5,534 from Uttar Pradesh; 3,699 from Chandigarh; 3,070 from Gujarat; 2,763 from Bihar; 2,657 from Goa; 2,152 from Rajasthan; 1,941 from Karnataka; 1,609 from Uttarakhand; 1,120 from Madhya Pradesh; 901 from West Bengal and 760 from Jammu-Kashmir.The remaining people are stranded in other states apart from those mentioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/89-000-people-stranded-in-himachal-keen-to-return-home/story-wQuKvkb3HaYLLb9e0WvSSM.html
21-05-2020||Lucknow||Approach state govt first, Alld HC on plea to open mosques for Eid||The Allahabad High Court on Wednesday disposed of a PIL seeking the opening of mosques/idgahs in Uttar Pradesh for offering jamaat/namaz on Eid-ul-Fitr for an hour, saying that the petitioner must first approach the state government in this regard.The court said that on denial of the relief claimed or any unusual delay in considering the same, the petitioner shall be at liberty to approach the high court by filing a writ petition.In the PIL, the petitioner, Shahid Ali Siddiqui, a lawyer, had requested the court to direct the state government to open a mosques/idgahs situated in Uttar Pradesh state for offering jamaat/namaz of Eid-Ul-Fitr and Dova in congregation for one hour (from 9:00 am to 10:00 am) and future Juma (Friday) namaz till June, 2020.Disposing of the PIL, a division bench comprising chief justice Govind Mathur and justice Siddhartha Varma observed, “On going through the averments contained in the petition, it does not appear that the petitioner before approaching this court had made any demand to the state government for redressal of the grievance.”“It is well settled that a party seeking writ in the nature of mandamus must first approach the authority competent for redressal of the grievance. In view of it, we are not inclined to interfere in the matter at this stage,” the bench observed.The petitioner has taken the plea that different relaxations are being given by the government in the lockdown for other worldly matters but no relaxation has been given in the matter of worship in different religions.According to him, Eid-ul-Fitr is to fall on May 24/25 and for celebrating it, the Muslims be permitted to go to idgahs/different mosques for an hour from 9 am to 10 am adhering to social distancing. Further, restrictions like entry only to 20 to 50 persons may be allowed for Friday namaz prayer or for daily five time in mosque for namaz and Dova in congregation till June 30, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/approach-state-govt-first-alld-hc-on-plea-to-open-mosques-for-eid/story-54DiYdzR9YbOzXF0vGxgaJ.html
21-05-2020||Lucknow||BHU’s Ayurveda faculty to send Covid-19 protocol to ICMR today||Faculty of Ayurveda, BHU on Thursday will send ‘Ayurvedic protocol for the management of Covid-19 patients’ for clinic trial to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), union ministry of Ayush, Niti Aayog and other bodies, informed Prof Yamini Bhushan Tripathi, dean of the faculty.Prof Tripathi said, “With a request to consider Ayurvedic protocol for starting its clinical trial, we are going to send the Ayurvedic protocol to ICMR, union ministry of Ayush, National Indian Medicine Commission (earlier Central Council of Indian Medicine), Niti Aayog, and Ayurveda Mahasammelan.”The protocol will also be sent to all major academic institutions of Ayurveda for their feedback. The faculty of Ayurveda’s 16-member committee prepared the protocol in the second week of May this year. The protocol has been revised further after seeking suggestions from the experts. Prof Tripathi said, “Although the Ayurvedic protocol for the management of Covid-19 patients is complete in itself, it is open for periodical revision on the basis of suggestions from Ayurveda experts. It was first released on the faculty of Ayurveda’s website for consideration of all faculty members on May 14. A copy of it had been sent to the secretary Ayush Ministry.” Prof Tripathi said that Ayurvedic protocol includes all three procedures- Daivyavipashraya (spiritual healing), Yukti Vipashraya (Ayurvedic medication), Satwavajaya (psychological counseling)- as described in Ayurveda for the management of Covid-19 affected persons in quarantine and post quarantine.Prof Tripathi said, “Spiritual healing is an important part of Ayurvedic way treatment. It includes worship, meditation, chanting of mantras, and havan using specific herbs. Havans purify the atmosphere and also have a positive effect on a patient.” Ayurvedic medication, using all three sorts of Ayurvedic medicines­- liquid, decoction, and shrubs-, has been suggested. In addition, non-pharmacology procedures as described in Ayurveda may also be used.Then psychological counseling has been suggested for the confidence building of a Covid-19 affected person. Prof Tripathi said, ”On our part, we are making serious efforts for scientific validation of the Ayurvedic concepts of management of Covid-19 patients through observation and interventional studies.” The observational study will be done only when the clinical trial is approved.Prof Tripathi said that the protocol would also be available on the internet in order that the Ayurvedic physicians across the country might have a complete idea of the Ayuvedic protocol for the management of Covid-19 affected persons and give their suggestions if there was a need for further improvement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/bhu-s-ayurveda-faculty-to-send-covid-19-protocol-to-icmr-today/story-ir7DYODXGhPS0cdatjcfzJ.html
21-05-2020||Ranchi||33 new Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand, tally touches 281||Jharkhand on Wednesday reported the highest ever spike in Covid-19 positive cases after 33 people, mostly migrant workers, from across the state’s six districts were found infected.With discovery of these cases, the total count of confirmed Covid-19 cases rose to 281.While maximum 18 cases were reported from Garhwa district, five each cases were found in East Singhbhum’s Jamshedpur and Koderma districts. Besides, Giridih district recorded two new cases and Hazaribag, Seraikela-Kharsawan and Gumla districts detected one case each.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicIn Garhwa, 14 cases were reported from Korwadih, three cases from Vishnupura and one case from Majhiaon blocks.“Fourteen migrant workers, who had arrived here from Mumbai and were put in government quarantine centre at Korwadih, were tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Earlier, one person from this group had been found infected with this respiratory disease. The patients are being shifted to district’s Covid-19 hospital,” said Garhwa civil surgeon Dr NK Rajak.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakWith increase of 18 cases on Thursday, Garhwa district has now 47 positive cases.In East Singhbhum’s Jamshedpur, three of a family in Govindur locality have tested Corona positive along one patient each from Mango and Golmuri on Wednesday.“Since the three patients are from a single family we are secluding the area as a micro-containment zone. But the patients testing positive from Mango and Golmuri didn’t come in contact with any other person hence there will be no containment zones in those two localities,” said Ravishankar Shukla, East Singhbhum DC.Koderma district also reported five new positive cases. “All persons tested positive are migrant workers,” said Koderma civil surgeon Dr Parvati Kumari Nag.Giridih civil surgeon Dr B Das too confirmed detection of two new cases from the district. He said, “The two patients are migrant workers who had came here from Surat and were kept in government quarantine centre at Jammua block.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/33-new-covid-19-cases-tally-touches-281/story-k6AgGwJMPltF4sqU4wv5vI.html
21-05-2020||Lucknow||Bareilly: 50% teachers abstain from evaluation work||District inspector of school (DIOS) has warned of action after fifty per cent teachers abstained from duty for evaluation of answer-sheets of UP Board. The evaluation started on Tuesday.The teachers did not report for evaluation duty following boycott call given by one of the teachers’ associations citing risk of contracting Covid-19.According to the secondary education department, of 1,100 teachers who were deployed for evaluation of answer sheets in five centres in Bareilly district, only 568 reported for duty.“Since so many teachers from different parts of the district will gather at the evaluation centre, there will be a higher risk of contracting Covid-19. Bareilly is in the red zone and the evaluation of copies poses a risk to teachers and their family members,” said Naresh Singh, district president of one of the teachers’ associations.DIOS Amar Kant Singh has warned that those who do not report for duty would be taken to task. He brushed aside the apprehensions raised by Singh about the pandemic.“We have maintained social distancing at all five centres. We have reduced the total number of evaluators from 1,400 to 1,100 to ensure that a distance of at least two-metres is maintained between two evaluators in a classroom. Besides, all the centres were properly sanitized. Thermal screening of teachers is also being done,” he said.Singh said that a few teachers had given the call to boycott work to gain publicity. “We will take action against teachers who will not turn up for duty,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/bareilly-50-teachers-abstain-from-evaluation-work/story-799S8wfWI8pLA01l9VtCRM.html
21-05-2020||Lucknow||Shops in Lucknow reopen today on ‘alternate day’ basis||Shops will reopen in Lucknow on Thursday, barring those in containment and buffer zones, on an ‘alternate day’ basis. Outlets on one side of the road will open on one day while shops on the other side will operate the next day.Barring Chowk and Aminabad, markets in Hazratganj, Narhi, Naka, Bhootnath and other areas will resume operations.AREAS WHERE MARKETS WILL BE CLOSED (containment and buffer zones) Aminabad and nearby marketsShops on Latouche roadShops on Nazirabad roadShops on BN Road (Qaiserbagh Crossing to Bapu Bhawan)Shops on Cantonment road (from Burlington crossing to Qaiserbagh crossing)Shops from Qaiserbagh crossing to Qaiserbagh Bus StandShops from Moulviganj crossing to Raqabganj crossingShops on Hewett roadLalbagh and nearby marketsJai Hind MarketShops on Tulsidas Marg (Victoria street) to Haiderganj crossingShops on Nadan Mahal roadShops from Charak Chauraha to Medical CollegeNakkhas MarketSadar Bazar CanttNishatganj Sabzi Mandi and nearby area“As per the new format of lockdown 4.0, it has been decided that all shops, except those in containment and buffer zones, will open on alternate day basis. On the seventh day, shops will remain closed for the weekly sanitisation exercise,” said Abhishek Prakash, district magistrate, Lucknow while underlining the latest arrangements that will be effective from May 21.The administration has also issued dos and don’ts for shop owners. They have been asked to maintain a register, thermal scanner, keep sanitiser/gloves, make provisions for social distancing and not to entertain customers without masks.“It is also mandatory for shop keepers to check the temperature of customers and bar entry of customers over 60 years, pregnant women and children below 10 years of age,” state the guidelines.Besides, every shop owner has to advise customers to download the ‘Aarogya Setu’ mobile application and maintain social distancing.“On failing which, there is a provision of a fine up to Rs 5 lakh and FIR against the trader,” it further stated.Suresh Chablani, convener of Akhil Bharatiya Udyog Vyapar Mandal, Lucknow said, “We welcome the district administration’s attempt to re-start the markets. We will ensure implementation of the guidelines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/shops-in-lucknow-reopen-today-on-alternate-day-basis/story-AIStlS0zDRvyUXHpRp5gMN.html
21-05-2020||Lucknow||Yogi gives directives for food and transport to migrants||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said a record number of trains were being run to bring back 2 lakh migrant workers from various states daily. Since the start of the operation of the Shramik Specials, 1044 trains had been plied for UP which was a record in the country, he said.Addressing a joint press conference, additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi and principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said the chief minister ordered to increase the capacity of the quarantine centres to 15 lakh with the arrival of a large number of migrant workers from across the country. The officials had also been directed to provide food and drinking water to the migrants at toll plazas in border districts, they said. The CM directed the state police to organise intensive patrolling on all the expressways, national highways, state highways and intersections. Police had also been instructed to increase patrolling at night. If any migrant worker was seen moving the policemen should arrange food and vehicle for his safe journey home, the officers said.On the request of the state government, the Railways had started plying trains from Ghaziabad, Noida, Mathura, Agra, Meerut, Saharanpur, Aligarh, Moradabad, Jhansi, Kanpur and Prayagraj to ferry the migrant workers to various destinations. An additional 12,000 UPSRTC buses and private buses had been hired to ferry the migrants in all the districts, the officers said.The CM again appealed to the migrants that they should not travel on foot, two-wheelers and trucks as it was not safe. They should be patient as the state committed to bringing back the migrants safely to UP, they said.The CM directed the officials to prepare a work plan to provide employment to all migrant labourers and workers coming to Uttar Pradesh. He instructed the officers of industry department and MSME to prepare the skill data of migrants, The state government will engage them in the industrial units and various employment schemes according to their skill. The data of the migrant workers would be uploaded on the website along with the mobile numbers, so it would be easy for the employers to contact them, the officers said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/yogi-gives-directives-for-food-and-transport-to-migrants/story-Kp4hJuhZFbDcHXJvpKcXGM.html
21-05-2020||Lucknow||Regulator may announce zero tariff hike sans UPPCL proposal||The UP Electricity Regulatory Commission (UPERC) has made up its mind to suo motu announce a zero hike tariff by the month-end as the UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) has not yet submitted its revenue requirement (ARR) proposal for the current financial year despite repeated reminders. The corporation did submit the five-year business plan before the lockdown, but has given neither the ARR for the year 2020-21, nor the annual performance review for the year 2019-20, nor any tariff revision proposal.“Last week, we again sent a reminder to UPPCL, asking them to file ARR in view of the parameters changed by the Covid-19 lockdown but we have not received the ARR proposal,” said a senior UPERC official.“We cannot wait anymore and if they do not submit the ARR proposal/ tariff revision proposal, the commission will be compelled to suo motu pronounce its tariff order with zero tariff increase,” he added. Sources said the commission was not ready to consider the revenue requirement and power purchase figures projected by UPPCL in its business plan, saying that a significant electricity load crash due to the coronavirus lockdown had changed all the parameters. Hence, the regulator is insisting that UPPCL rework the figures and send the ARR accordingly.“We cannot allow UPPCL any new power purchase agreement, considering the fact that the electricity demand in UP had reduced by 4,000-5,000 after the lockdown on March 25 and this has changed the UPPCL’s old power purchase and revenue requirement projections for 2020-21,” said UPERC official sources.“This is why we have asked UPPPCL to summit a realistic ARR,” they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/regulator-may-announce-zero-tariff-hike-sans-uppcl-proposal/story-yEXv5f5YIqHDGG6lyYZp5K.html
21-05-2020||Mumbai||‘Routine sortie’: Navy on low-flying chopper over flamingo habitat in Mumbai||On Wednesday morning, Navi Mumbai residents were surprised to see a helicopter fly very low, close to the flamingo feeding grounds in Talawe wetlands, scattering the birds.The Indian Navy said this was part of their routine migratory bird survey as flamingos and waders were a flight safety hazard. The survey was carried out to ascertain density of migratory birds as this habitat falls within the designated ‘local flying area’ (LFA) of the Indian Navy Station (INS) Shikra in Colaba, officials said.Over 1.5 lakh flamingos have flocked to wetlands in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region this year, the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) said last month, estimating a 25 per cent increase in numbers than 2019. The BNHS said that lower human activity during lockdown created ideal foraging conditions in Navi Mumbai wetlands.Local resident Sandeep Bangia, who photographed the helicopter around 10 am on Wednesday, said that he have never seen a helicopter over the flamingo habitat earlier. “I live on the 17th floor, and what seemed like a defence helicopter, was flying as low as the 14th floor,” said Bangia. “The whirring noise (from the helicopter) disturbed the birds as the chopper made multiple rounds over the patch within 10 minutes.”The navy said that based on videos taken at the site, flamingo numbers were much more than previous years.“INS Shikra’s flight safety officer, skilled in bird migratory studies in LFA, was present for the sortie. For any defence station, it is essential to know the presence of migratory birds for flight safety. Large migratory bird congregation at this zone shows a risk in helicopter movement, and needs to be avoided. This is a safety requirement and there is no mischief,” said Commander Mehul Karnik, Indian Navy spokesperson. “Such surveys are usually conducted using unmanned aerial vehicles in large military airfields but in this region Chetak helicopters have to be deployed.”A BNHS official, requesting anonymity, said, “A similar sortie was observed during our study in Panje in 2017 but not at the NRI complex flamingo habitat over the past few years.”Sunil Agarwal, another resident said constant attention being given to this habitat makes a clear case for declaring the site a protected area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/routine-sortie-navy-on-low-flying-chopper-over-flamingo-habitat-in-mumbai/story-keE2eirmWZ5jXGJ2uA21cO.html
21-05-2020||City||Forced to pay 18% interest on delayed payments, Punjab Fabric Association files complaint with PMO||The Punjab Fabric Association had filed a complaint with the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) against 18% interest being charged by fibre mill owners on delayed payments. Disclosing this, general secretary of the association Bobby Jindal said, “The PMO has responded to their complaint and it has been forwarded to additional chief secretary, industries and commerce, Punjab Vini Mahajan for inquiry.”He said the association had demanded the intervention of the office in the matter and steps for bringing some relief to fabric mill owners.Seeking waiver of interest on delayed payments for the lockdown period, the association said, “Even after the lockdown, the members will not be able to pay 18% interest and the rate of interest should be equal to that of charged by banks.”Members of the association held a meeting in the last week and decided not to pay interest on delayed payments to fibre mill owners in Punjab and other states including Surat, Mumbai, etc for the lockdown period. Jindal said, “There are around 500 fabric mills in the district, situated on the Tajpur Road, Bahadurke Road, Jalandhar Bypass, focal points and other areas. The industry is reeling under losses and, if fibre mill owners continue to impose 18% interest on delayed payments, the fabric mill owners will be in dire financial straits.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/forced-to-pay-18-interest-on-delayed-payments-punjab-fabric-association-files-complaint-with-pmo/story-6DXTbK0umXu7HOX5AqNRrM.html
21-05-2020||City||Resumption of bus service comes as big relief to people stranded in Ludhiana||The resumption of bus service in the state on Wednesday after around two months came as a big relief for the people stranded in different locations due to curfew. Around 35 buses, both of PRTC and Punjab Roadways, ferried passengers to various destinations, including Jalandhar, Amritsar, Moga, Hoshiarpur, Patiala, Sangrur, Ferozepur, from the Inter-State Bus Terminal (ISBT) here on Wednesday.Each bus carried 20 to 25 passengers against its sitting capacity of 50. The passengers were ferried from one bus stand to another with no halts at bus stops on the way. As there was no rush of passengers on the first day, buses had to wait for several hours for an adequate number of passengers of the end destination.The first bus to Chandigarh from Ludhiana left at pm after 23 people boarded the bus for Chandigarh.“I have to go to Jalandhar, but a conductor informed me that the last bus left 10 minutes ago. Now, I will have to wait for an hour or more till more passengers for Jalandhar gather here,” said Lalit Kumar, a resident of Kathua of Jammu and Kashmir, whose wife Urmil is admitted in Deep Hospital here for appendicitis surgery. “I have to get some important documents concerning her treatment from Kathua, so I will take a bus from Jalandhar to Pathankot from where I will go with my cousin to Kathua after some days when the border opens,” he said. Similarly, Prem Singal, a vegetable vendor, who travelled from Hoshiarpur to Ludhiana, was waiting for a bus to Patiala. “My mother, who lives in Hoshiarpur, was not well, so I had gone to meet her in March while my wife and two kids were in Patiala, where I sell vegetables to make a living. They were left on their own throughout the curfew, while I was stuck in Hoshiapur. I also ran out of money during this time and left with the money just for travelling,” he added. PASSENGERS SCREENED BEFORE BOARDING BUSESAround 14 rural dispensary pharmacists were deputed at the bus stand for screening passengers before they boarded the buses.Karamjeet Kaur, a pharmacist, said the temperature of all the passengers is being checked and in case a person is found having high temperature, he will be taken to the hospital.“Till now, we have not encountered any passenger with fever. We are screening each and every person and giving him a sanitiser to clean his hands before boarding the bus,” she said. Similarly, around 10 Civil Defence staff members helped in maintaining social distancing at the bus stand. The volunteers ensured people stood in queues while boarding the buses and sit at a distance as per the marking on the seats.Inderjit Singh Chawla, general manager, Ludhiana depot, said around 500 people boarded the 35 buses for different cities on Wednesday. “Everything went on smoothly on the first day. The municipal corporation sanitised the bus stand on Tuesday evening while the civil surgeon’s office had deputed a medical team for carrying out screening. Similary, a Civil Defence team helped us in maintaining social distancing,” said Inderjit Singh Chawla. “We ensured that people do not face any inconvenience and buses reach safely at their destinations,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/resumption-of-bus-service-comes-as-big-relief-to-people-stranded-in-ludhiana/story-ShMDkGoVbmnTC1fHYvG0EP.html
21-05-2020||City||100th Shramik special train leaves from Ludhiana||Carrying around 1,200 migrants to Uttar Pradesh, the 100th Shramik Special Train departed from Ludhiana railway station on Wednesday at 9.50pm.Since May 5, as many as 1.20 lakh migrants have been sent home from Ludhiana railway station to their hometowns in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh.On Wednesday, as many as 21 trains departed from the Ferozepur Division. These included 12 trains from Ludhiana, three from Amritsar and two each from Jalandhar, Ferozepur and Katra.Divisional railway manager Rajesh Agarwal said as many as 198 trains have ferried around 2.37 lakh migrants from stations of Ferozepur division so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/100th-shramik-special-train-leaves-from-ludhiana/story-sTS6qHMkCmE0AK6NbIs7rJ.html
21-05-2020||City||Thane improves in garbage-free rating; activists say efforts not enough||Thane has improved its ranking in the Central government’s assessment of garbage-free cities. In the Star Rating of Garbage Free Cities’ survey for 2019-20, Thane bagged three stars – one up from last year’s two.The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) cited improvement in garbage collection, increase in waste segregation and quick redressal of complaints for the improved ranking. The cities were judged on cleanliness of drains and water bodies and management of plastic waste and debris. Solid waste management was one of the main parameters to award points.A civic official, requesting anonymity, said, “Garbage is collected daily and segregated before being transported to the dumping ground. We have installed GPS on garbage collection vans for efficient work.”The city generates more than 960 metric tonnes of garbage daily. He added, “We have streamlined garbage collection and transport. The segregation in housing societies has increased from 50% to 80%. We have also placed litter bins, especially for plastic waste. The commercial areas are cleaned twice a day.”TMC claimed it has addressed 75% of the complaints it has received on the Swacchh Bharat application.Thane activists, however, said there is no improvement and that they can see garbage strewn at public places.Milind Patankar, an activist, said, “TMC has merely put extra burden on citizens to treat waste. Waste treatment needs to be centralised or decentralised and should be undertaken by TMC which has the resources. Waste segregation has increased but the segregated waste is dumped into one van and taken to the dumping ground. Only wet waste should be collected daily while dry waste should be collected once a week.”He added that a few months ago when his housing society called thermocol collection van, the TMC asked them to send the thermocol waste with the regular garbage van.Another activist Chandrahas Tawade said, “The ranking comes as a surprise as we can still see heaps of garbage in the city. There are many initiatives, but all on paper. We are yet to see a satisfactory result.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-improves-in-garbage-free-rating-activists-say-efforts-not-enough/story-SzBW7V8EA1O681pezdP5VL.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s electoral process in focus during webinar at Panjab University||The department of political science, Panjab University, organised a webinar on the electoral process in Punjab, on Wednesday.As many as 60 people took part in the online event titled “People, politics and electoral process in Punjab”. The chief speaker on the occasion was Kuldip Singh, director at Centre for South Central Asian Studies and consultant-cum-coordinator at IAS centre for competitive exams, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar.He illustrated how the nature of electoral politics in Punjab can be assessed from the various agitations in the state over the years. “Now, with the end of terrorism in the state, there is a new paradigm of politics where Akali Dal has moved away from ethnic politics of militancy era to moderation. It has formed a coalition with BJP to win over non-Sikh votes,” he said. He added that developments amid the Covid-19 pandemic will determine the future of Punjab politics and the Congress may have a better chance of electoral win in the future due to its regional strength as a result of the Congress High Command’s influence and proactive role played by Captain Amarinder Singh as the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-s-electoral-process-in-focus-during-webinar-at-panjab-university/story-ghkeUI8Ci9CHrYdl7gkzsL.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Placements preparations during Covid-19 pandemic in focus during webinar at Panjab University||Panjab University’s central placement cell organised a webinar on preparing for job opportunities, amid the Covid-19 pandemic, on Wednesday.As many as 120 students participated in the online event titled “Demystifying and preparing for job opportunities in the new normal”.PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar said, “There is no cure for Covid-19 till now. So, we have to learn to live while adhering to safety norms. Education and skill development is a continuous process. Nothing can hamper the spirit of learning.”Sagar Raina, vice-president and head of talent acquisition, Airtel, spoke on how the economy has recovered from such situations in the past and hoped we will recover from these conditions in a short span of time. He explained the value of data and various new jobs which are being created in the market at the moment.Raina advised students to take up online courses and virtual internships to develop required skills during this period, and gave practical tips to students so they can get placed.Royston Botelho, India head of Calxypod, spoke on aptitude tests that will help students during placements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/placements-preparations-during-covid-19-pandemic-in-focus-during-webinar-at-panjab-university/story-qeYUPtYl6oZ0tslZc0PAUI.html
21-05-2020||City||Mohali man’s decomposed body found hanging in house||The decomposed body of a 45-year-old man, who is suspected to have committed suicide, was found hanging from a ceiling fan at his rented accommodation in Mohali’s Mataur village.Belonging to Karnal, he worked as a cab driver. The body was recovered after the caretaker of the building, where he stayed on the fourth floor, found blood flowing out of the room. Police reached the spot and broke open the door to find the body. Earlier, too, the caretaker had been sensing foul smell, but suspected it be a dead rat, said police. The victim is suspected to have committed suicide four to five days ago. “No suicide note was found. We found his phone with the battery drained out. We are trying to contact his family in Karnal,” said Rajiv Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Mataur, adding that people in the building said the man used to remain tense. Police have initiated inquest proceedings and the body had been sent to the mortuary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-man-s-decomposed-body-found-hanging-in-house/story-QCz7vnVA40S93chfgHezOJ.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Do not leave premises, Panjab University tells employees||Panjab University registrar Karamjeet Singh issued a notice on May 18 asking employees to leave their offices only if necessary during working hours, to prevent the spread of Covid-19.The notice was issued after it was seen that many employees leave the premises during duty hours.Panjab University reopened its offices on May 13 with 33% staffers on rotational-basis. Registrar Karamjeet Singh said, “We have taken this step to prevent the virus from spreading. Employees have to strictly adhere to safety norms of the government to ensure it.”To make sure movement of employees is minimal during duty hours, the non-teaching fraternity of the university has written a letter to the PU administration seeking change in their timings.President of the Panjab University Staff (non-teaching) Association (PUSA), Deepak Kaushik said, “Our employees have to move from time to time, which is crucial for our work. Every time we go out to eat lunch, thermal scanning is done. So, we have asked the university to change our timings, so that we can enter at 9am and leave at 2pm, before lunch time.”A PU senator while raising his concerns said, “The university needs to ensure that employees staying in containment zones do not report for duty. I have learnt that an employee from Dhanas, which is a containment zone, attended work at the university.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/do-not-leave-premises-panjab-university-tells-employees/story-kFZw0cuZWI0heo2iLa3BnO.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||315 challans issues in Mohali for violation of Covid-19 norms||A day after Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh directed the state police to ensure strict adherence to Covid-19 safety protocols, the district police issued 315 challans for flouting of norms, on Wednesday. The challans were issued for not wearing masks in public, which has been made mandatory; and to those travelling in vehicles with more than the permissible number of people.“The drive was carried out to create awareness and ensure residents comply with safety protocols for containing the spread of Covid-19, in the wake of offices and commercial activity resuming. After the curfew. people need to get used to the new protocols,” Mohali superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal said.“The maximum number of challans were issued for pillion riding. The government had permitted only one person on two-wheelers, to ensure social distancing,” said Baghwant Singh, station house officer, Kharar (city), where 92 challans were issued during the four-hour drive. Violators were charged ₹ 200 as compounding fee and challan slips issued.Acting on the CM’s directives, Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta has asked all CPs and SSPs in the state to register FIRs, impound vehicles or issue challans, in case of any violation of lockdown restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/315-challans-issues-in-mohali-for-violation-of-covid-19-norms/story-2km5mbRCvLuH92Mvlwsp8H.html
21-05-2020||City||Congress worker held in Khanna illegal liquor distillery case||A Congress worker was arrested in connection with an illegal liquor distillery case that took place at Bahomajra village, where the police had conducted raid last month. With his arrest, a total of seven people have been arrested in the case.The accused was identified as Kulwinder Singh Kala of Kaddon village in Payal sub-division. According to Congress Payal MLA Lakhvir Singh Lakha, Kulwinder is a well known liquor contractor and his family has been associated with the Congress since generations. “If he has done something wrong, the police should definitely take action against him. Congress party has always raised voice against such illegal activities and I too stand against illegal operation of liquor distillery,” he said.During the raid conducted on April 22, the Khanna police had arrested five persons, including Harvinder Singh alias Manga Chaddha, owner of the distillery. They had recovered 320 cartons of First Choice label liquor, 93 cartons of 999 whiskey, liquor prepared for 1,444 cartons, 3,800 litre of ENA split sufficient to produce 950 more cartons of liquor, 8,000 empty bottles, 80 bags of bottle caps, 250 litre of aroma cent and orange colour, two large machines among other small machines, an Innova car, a tractor, a canter and Rs 5.82 lakh cash from the plant.Harpreet Singh, senior superintendent of police, Khanna, said Chaddha was the main accused in this case and he had disclosed names of several person to whom, he had supplied liquor during the lockdown. Chaddha had supplied at least 200 cartons of liquor to Kulwinder, who had further supplied them to his customers. Kulwinder’s name was later included in the FIR that was registered under Sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 465 (punishment for forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 61/1/14 of the Excise Act and 51 of the Disaster Management Act at Khanna Sadar police station, last month.During interrogation, Chaddha had confessed that he had supplied at least 1,000 cartons of liquor in Punjab, Chandigarh, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and some other states as well. He had disclosed the names of some suppliers, including Lavan Kumar of Patiala; Bhupinder Singh of Rajpura; Chirag and Sumit Kumar of Delhi; Vivek of Chandigarh; Aditya Tyagi of Saharanpur and Jasvir Singh of Mal Majra. All these names were added in the FIR.Three days after the arrest of Chaddha and four other persons, the police had arrested a liquor supplier Jasvir Singh of Mal Majra in Samrala and also conducted raid at Bhupinder’s godown in Rajpura, from where they recovered 17 drums of spirit (3,740 litre) and eight drums of chemicals (1,760 litre). Bhupinder had managed to flee then.Jasvir had confessed that he had supplied around 500 to 600 cartons of liquor, manufactured in Bahomajra based distillery, in his area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-worker-held-in-khanna-illegal-liquor-distillery-case/story-JS4sOTUvzAfbdzaGzTzjVP.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Unaccounted ₹20 lakh seized from factory owner in Mohali||Police seized ₹20 lakh in cash from a factory owner at a naka in Jagatpura, Mohali, on Wednesday.The man, identified as Ram Swaroop, owns a factory in Kala Amb, Himachal Pradesh.The cash was seized by Mohali sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Jagdeep Sehgal with income tax officers Abhishek Duggal, Munish Nayyar and a police team when they stopped Swaroop’s car that was coming from Chandigarh.“Swaroop could not tell us the source of the cash on the spot. So, it was seized and handed over to the police to record his statement,” SDM Sehgal said.“He was contradicting himself regarding the cash source. He could not even confirm his address; first he said he’s from Ambala and then, from Chandigarh. That made us suspicious,” he added. Station house officer of the Phase 11 police station, Jagdeep Singh said, “Swaroop said in his statement that he was going back to his home in Ambala. He said he collected the cash from his factory to pay for an under-construction house in Sector 35, Chandigarh.”Singh said the cash will be handed over to the income tax office. A daily dairy register (DDR) entry was made at the Phase 11 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/unaccounted-20-lakh-seized-from-factory-owner-in-mohali/story-iod5eRt5j2Tv9pGA0bdz0O.html
21-05-2020||Mumbai||Residents spot low-flying defence chopper over flamingo habitat; Navy says migratory bird survey||On Wednesday morning, Navi Mumbai residents were surprised to see a helicopter fly very low, close to the flamingo feeding grounds in Talawe wetlands, scattering the birds.The Indian Navy said they undertook a routine migratory bird survey sortie as flamingos and waders were a flight safety hazard. The survey was carried out to ascertain density of migratory birds as this habitat falls within the designated ‘local flying area’ (LFA) of Indian Navy Station (INS) Shikra in Colaba, officials said.More 1.5 lakh flamingos have flocked to wetlands in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) this year, the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) had said last month, estimating a 25% increase in numbers as compared to 2019. BNHS said lower human activity during lockdown created ideal foraging conditions in Navi Mumbai wetlands.Local resident Sandeep Bangia, who photographed the helicopter around 10am on Wednesday, said he had never seen a helicopter over the flamingo habitat earlier. “I live on the 17th floor, and what seemed like a defence helicopter was flying as low as the 14th floor,” said Bangia. “The whirring noise (from the helicopter) disturbed the birds as the chopper made multiple rounds over the patch within 10 minutes.”The navy said, based on videos taken at the site, flamingo numbers were much more than previous years. “INS Shikra’s flight safety officer, skilled in bird migratory studies in LFA, was present for the sortie. For any defence station, it is essential to know the presence of migratory birds for flight safety. Large migratory bird congregation at this zone poses a risk to helicopter movement, and needs to be avoided. This is a safety requirement and there is no mischief,” said Commander Mehul Karnik, Indian Navy spokesperson. “Such surveys are usually conducted using unmanned aerial vehicles in large military airfields but in this region Chetak helicopters have to be deployed.”A BNHS official requesting anonymity said, “A similar sortie was observed during our study in Panje in 2017, but not at the NRI complex flamingo habitat over the past few years.”Sunil Agarwal, another resident said constant attention being given to this habitat makes a clear case for declaring the site a protected area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/residents-spot-low-flying-defence-chopper-over-flamingo-habitat-navy-says-migratory-bird-survey/story-fPT9AANFivfTOFkZiA0aXK.html
21-05-2020||City||Haryana school board debunks Class 10 result rumours||Debunking the reports about Class 10 result being declared on Wednesday, Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) secretary Rajiv Prasad said all such news was false as they were yet to decide the release date.The BSEH secretary claimed that even some local media houses had run fake news regarding the declaration of the board result.“No official release date has been decided yet and the result will be declared through proper channels. The result is likely to be announced by the end of this month. Some people have shared a link for Class 10 result, but that is fake,” the board secretary said.The board had postponed the exams for classes 10 and 12 on March 19 in the wake of coronavirus pandemic. Nearly 7.41 lakh students of both classes are enrolled for board exams in Haryana.TEACHERS EVALUATED ANSWERSHEETS AT HOMEPrasad informed that nearly 6,000 teachers had evaluated the Class 10 board answersheets at home by April 22. “After checking the copies, the teachers had handed over the same to BEOs at 39 centres in the state. We are ready to declare the result anytime by the end of May,” he said.Meanwhile, around 3.71 lakh Class 10 students, who were eager to see their board result at 4pm on Wednesday, blamed social media users for spreading fake news.Vikas Kumar, a student of Bhiwani, said his parents told him that the board was going to announce the results on Wednesday. “I waited for the result throughout the day, but now I am disappointed to hear that it was nothing but a rumour. Today, I realized that the trend of fake news can be quite harmful,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-school-board-debunks-class-10-result-rumours/story-Uj449QCqhrFfjOTH66vOhP.html
21-05-2020||Lifestyle||Ramzan during Covid-19: Migrant labourers get sehri and iftari donations||On his officiated visit to meet the migrant labourers — temporarily living in a government school-turned-shelter in south Delhi’s Sriniwaspuri — Gagandeep, a physiologist by profession, observed that 60% of the labourers were observing roza (fast furing Ramzan). In quarantine during the extended lockdown, these labourers were observing their religious practise, and were not really getting their morning meal, Sehri, which is supposed to be consumed quite early in the morning. Gagandeep says, “These people do get provided food from the arrangements made by the Delhi Government, but sehri is consumed in the morning and then fast is observed for the rest of the day. It was difficult for them to get food at the right time, to be able to continue fasting. So, to arrange some food in the morning, I approached my friend Irtiza Quraishi, who then connected us with Tarique Afaque.” The psychologist, who was visiting this transition centre for labourers, on the request of Delhi Police official Anant Kumar Gunjan — SHO at Amar Colony Police Station — adds, “Afaque, who lives in Okhla, has since then been going to Nizamuddin at one O’Clock in the morning, every day; to bring sehri for these labourers.” Afaque, who is part of a Delhi-based biker group, Royal Mavericks, credits his group for providing the necessary funds of this service. He adds, “I have been collecting the sehri, and serving it at the centre since quite a few days now... When I was visiting the centre on the first day, I observed that the labourers don’t have clothes and they were unable to sleep properly because of mosquitoes. So I also tried and managed to arrange clothes and mosquito coils for them, and even toys for the kids. But, the coils didn’t work! Then I went looking for an electrician, and found one who agreed to arrange electric boards for operating liquid mosquito repellents... When I saw the migrants sleeping in peace, I had tears in my eyes.” And when comes the time of Iftar, evening meal post prayers, there’s a nearby shopkeeper, Abdul, who takes it upon himself to come to the service of those wanting to break their fast. Gagandeep informs that Abdul distributes rusk in the evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/ramzan-during-covid-19-migrant-labourers-get-sehri-and-iftari-donations/story-gGpZ4IYt0zqNlRbWYZUyDN.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Deadline of Chandigarh smart city projects extended by 2 months||The Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) has extended deadline of all ongoing projects by two months due to the time lost during the lockdown. CSCL CEO KK Yadav said although all allotted works had been restarted, the deadline had been extended by two months. “However, we expect the e-governance project to be launched on June 1 with at least half of 28 services planned in it,” said Yadav. The e-governance project will provide major public services online including building plans. Yadav said that they have already launched their web portal. Also, the public bicycle sharing project that was to start from June in a phased manner will now commence from August, said CSCL officials. Under the first phase, 200 dock stations are to be set up where 2,000 cycles will be available on rent. The fixed hourly rates will be ₹10 per hour for non-members and ₹5 for members. The annual membership fee will cost ₹200.Also, the construction of three garbage transfer stations, aimed at replacing storage of collected waste at sector-based sehaj safai kendras, is also not expected before August or September. CSCL allotted the work to M/s Hyva India Private Limited, Mumbai, in January with six-month deadline at ₹20 crore. The stations will receive segregated waste, sort it into recyclable waste, compact it and send it for processing. Besides, there are several other projects that are at developing or pre-tendering stage that will be revived, such as upgrading of five sewage treatment plants at ₹700 crore, and the 24x7 water supply pilot project in Manimajra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/deadline-of-chandigarh-smart-city-projects-extended-by-2-months/story-vjDkJ0tUj4eKDFXqxiwbZM.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||71 lakh MT wheat procured: Dushyant||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Wednesday said the state government has procured over 71 lakh metric tonne (MT) wheat and 7.58 lakh MT mustard.He said the state government has also procured more than 4,422 MT gram.Chautala, who also holds food, civil supplies and consumer affairs portfolio, said some leaders of opposition parties were not able to ‘digest’ that the procurement process was running smoothly despite the lockdown, and were misleading farmers.“The reality is that the cash credit of ₹22,000 crore has already been kept for the payment to farmers and for the 2.5% commission to arhtiyas,” he added. He said payment of both the farmers as well as arhtiyas is done on the third or fourth day after the wheat purchased in the mandis is lifted for the warehouses. He said wheat is being procured at an MSP of ₹1,925 per quintal, mustard at ₹4,425 per quintal and gram at ₹4,875 per quintal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/71-lakh-mt-wheat-procured-dushyant/story-QtWeuEdgWlswUUBSODhFxO.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh airport ready to resume operations from May 25||After a gap of two months, Chandigarh International Airport is ready to resume its operations with the opening of domestic sector from May 25.Civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Wednesday announced on Twitter that “domestic civil aviation operations will recommence in a calibrated manner from Monday, May 25, 2020”. The airports were shut on March 25 owing to nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19.“All airports and air carriers are being informed to be ready for operations... SOPs for passenger movement are also being separately issued by the aviation ministry,” he said.Though Chandigarh International Airport Limited (CHIAL) is yet to get any official confirmation, its chief executive officer (CEO) Ajay Bhardwaj said: “We are ready for resumption of operations.” “We are ready for departures and arrival of five flights per hour, but we have to wait for the schedule regarding the number of flights to become operational,” he said.Bhardwaj said the airport office is working as it was before the lockdown and the entire security is in place. “Checking of passengers will be done according to the guidelines issued by the government,” he said, adding that sanitisation of the airport would be done as per the directions of the health department.Air India airport director MR Jindal said: “We will wait for instructions from our headquarters. We are in any case ready as our evacuation flights are already operational. As soon as we get the nod, we will start the bookings.”The Airport Authority of India (AAI) has issued guidelines, stating that passengers should carry a hand sanitiser, wear a mask and download the Aarogya Setu application on their mobile phones.In the past two months, the nationwide lockdown has caused a loss of Rs 15 crore to the Chandigarh airport.The main revenue of the airport is generated under the aeronautical category, whereby the airport charges Rs 800 per passenger from airlines. For instance: An airline flying to Delhi with 80% occupancy pays around Rs 65,000 to the airport per flight. Factor in the commercial revenue in the form of rent of retail shops, office space, car parking and advertisements, the total revenue under both the categories comes to around Rs 30 lakh per day.Before the lockdown, there were around 44 flights connecting the airport to major cities across the country and two international flights to Sharjah and Dubai. The daily footfall, both arrival and departure, was 7,000 passengers. All this has been affected ever since the lockdown began.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-airport-ready-to-resume-operations-from-may-25/story-GDin8mxVPHwd14p3Sd7dqM.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||‘Farmers unwilling to accept paddy sowing restrictions’||Former Haryana CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda said on Wednesday that farmers were not willing to accept the restrictions being imposed on them by the BJP-JJP regime for sowing paddy. Addressing a video press conference, Hooda said that despite repeated his requests for reconsideration of orders banning paddy cultivation in parts of the state, the government remains adamant on its decision. “It’s up to the farmer to decide what to sow. The Congress will support him if he decides to sow paddy or any other crop,” he added.The leader of opposition said such decisions should be taken with the consent of the farmer. He said the concern about depleting ground water resources was legitimate, but the solution laid on recharging, not banning paddy cultivation. Hooda also highlighted the plight of farmers growing flowers and vegetables.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-unwilling-to-accept-paddy-sowing-restrictions/story-0vme6HaDTZI6RM0ByLLVfO.html
21-05-2020||City||Missing liquor: Former Kharkhauda SHO suspended||Former Kharkhauda SHO Jasbir Singh, who was booked for his alleged involvement in the missing liquor case, has been suspended. Sonepat SP Jashandeep Randhawa said SHO Jasbir Singh, who is currently at large, has been suspended by Sandeep Khirwar, IGP, Rohtak range. He said the suspended cop had joined as the Kharkhauda SHO in January this year. “He was sent to the Police Lines on April 30 after his name surfaced in the missing liquor case. We have launched a manhunt to nab him,” the SP added.The suspended SHO had joined the Haryana Police in 2010 as a sub-inspector after retiring from the air force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/missing-liquor-former-kharkhauda-sho-suspended/story-0fyy10VoRPwaCPQMwd0FFP.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Start monthly billing or face action, commission tells Chandigarh power dept||The Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) has told the UT electricity department to start monthly billing and improve supply quality immediately, or face action.Currently, more than 85% consumers (domestic and commercial) are being billed bimonthly in the city. A shift to monthly bills can help reduce the financial burden on the power consumers by around 20%, say department insiders.“Depending on the consumption slabs, tariff increases for consumers. For instance, if a household consumes 200 units in a month, then under the bimonthly bill system he has to pay ₹806 for a month. But, under monthly billing, he would be charged ₹652,” said a department official requesting anonymity. For up to 150 units consumed, the consumer is charged at ₹2.75 per unit, and between 151-400 units, the rate is ₹4.80 per unit.The JERC order comes in view of the department’s failure to implement monthly billing for all the categories except agriculture pumping supply, despite repeated directions of the commission.In response, the department had contended in its annual tariff review petition, “The conversion of meter reading from bimonthly to monthly will lead to various problems as there is acute shortage of staff. Further, the software is also required to be amended for monthly billing. Also, the work for installation of smart meters is in progress, which will help for monthly billing.”However, the commission, taking serious note of the department’s non-compliance of its orders, directed it to comply with immediate effect and submit the quarterly progress of the same to the commission.NON-ACHIEVEMENT OF CAPITALISATION TARGETThe commission in its order observed that the department was continuously undertaking lower than expected capitalisation through the years. The department in 2019-20 has undertaken a capitalisation of ₹0.44 crore till September 2019 against ₹69.14 crore approved.Lower capitalisation signifies that not enough efforts have been undertaken in enhancing the reliability and quality of supply to the consumers. This includes undertaking capital expenditure activities necessary for improving the service quality and targeting 24x7 supply to all consumers.Directing the department to improve on the city’s power infrastructure, the JERC order reads, “The petitioner is directed to ensure that the capitalisation targets approved are achieved. In case the petitioner fails to achieve the target, then appropriate penalties shall be imposed at the end of the control period.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/start-monthly-billing-or-face-action-commission-tells-chandigarh-power-dept/story-D3ASwBZOg1kwHTpSJXyLgM.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 report: PGIMER, its community medicine dept again not on same page||The difference in opinion of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER)’s administration and its department of community medicine and school of public health with regards to recommendations and projections made about the Covid-19 outbreak once again came to the fore on Wednesday.A day after a team headed by Dr JS Thakur, a professor in the community medicine department, presented its interim report before the UT administration, comparing the spread of infection in Mumbai’s Dharavi slum and Chandigarh’s Bapu Dham Colony, the PGIMER in an official release stated that the Chandigarh authorities had not asked the institute to carry out any survey of comparing the parameters between the two areas.The release, which was issued even as the report has not been made public, further stated: “We cannot compare different colonies of different magnitude without comparing the ultimate outcome of patients coming out of these. Presently, the outcome of patients who have come from Bapu Dham Colony to the PGIMER has been excellent.”NOT A FIRSTThis is the second time since April that the PGIMER has issued such a “clarification”.Earlier, a controversy had erupted when Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, citing a study by PGIMER experts, had projected that Covid-19 will likely infect 58% of the country’s populationThe institute was quick to issue a press note and clarified: “The PGIMER, Chandigarh, is not aware that any expert/faculty member from the department of community medicine and school of public health of the Institute has carried out any (such) study/estimate.” Later, a showcause notice was issued to Dr Shankar Prinja, who serves as an additional professor at the department and had provided assistance to the Punjab government.In the fresh controversy, a four-member team has presented around 18 recommendations to the UT administration on containment of outbreak in the congested Bapu Dham Colony, which accounts for Chandigarh’s 65% confirmed cases.“Yes, we have briefly mentioned about Dharavi and Bapu Dham Colony situation in the report and the infection rate in both areas,” Dr JS Thakur said before the PGIMER put out an official release. However, he did not respond to calls later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-report-pgimer-its-community-medicine-dept-again-not-on-same-page/story-MENLBpIKYMtTfQbTrH3QyH.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Non-AC CTU buses resume service in Chandigarh, Mohali||After the UT administration decided to start the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) bus service in the city on Wednesday, Punjab, too, has given it’s approval to let the buses ply within Mohali.After a gap of two months, the CTU bus service resumed operations of non-AC local buses within the city with 47 buses running on 16 routes. The bus service started at around 2pm. The public response was poor as most people were not even aware about the development. The CTU is expecting an improved response from Thursday.“After receiving permissions from neighbouring states, the operations will be scaled up to run 159 buses on 52 routes from 8am to 6pm daily in the tricity. We are expecting their response in a day or two,” said Uma Shankar Gupta, director transport.Haryana government’s decision on Wednesday to not allow inter-state buses is unlikely to affect plying of CTU buses in Panchkula. “The tricity is not considered as an inter-state bus service. Even if the tricity bus service to Panchkula is not allowed, CTU buses will carry passengers up to the borders of Panchkula,” said Gupta.Standard operating procedures have been put into place to ensure the safe transport of people as well as staff. All buses will be sanitised twice a day. Thermal screening will be done at the entry points of ISBT for passengers and at depots for the bus crew.Reusable masks, gloves and face shields have been issued to drivers and conductors. Sanitizer bottles are made available in the buses for usage of crew as well as passengers. Stickers have been fixed on seats where passengers will be allowed to sit as per social distancing norms. No passenger will be allowed to board the bus without wearing a mask. The entry for passengers will be made through the rear door and exit through the front door. Markings have been made at local counters in ISBT to maintain social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/non-ac-ctu-buses-resume-service-in-chandigarh-mohali/story-c6YtVTv40DOgaKYuCG2ilO.html
21-05-2020||City||Setback: Panchkula gets zero star in garbage-free rating||In a setback for the district, Panchkula’s waste management system has received zero star in the latest garbage-free rating released by the central government on Tuesday.However, the municipal corporation (MC) officials are claiming that it happened because they had applied in the 5-star rating category but are still eligible for the 3-star rating category.Under this initiative of the ministry of housing and urban affairs, seven stars are awarded to a city with the perfect waste management system.Last year, the city had applied for a 3-star rating and achieved two stars in the garbage free city rating. It also featured among the top cities under the open defecation-free (ODF) certification, one of the factors that helped it improve the ranking. MC commissioner Sumedha Kataria termed this year’s rating a “setback” and said the ratings didn’t paint the true picture for the district. “Though it is a setback, we still qualify for a 3-star rating. We were ambitious to apply under the 5-star rating category. We will appeal for a review in this regard,” said Kataria.There are three parameters for GFC rating—mandatory parameters, essential parameters and desirable parameters. These include various components such as door-to-door waste collection, segregation at source, litter bins, waste processing, grievance redressal, bulk waste generators compliance, scientific landfill (waste disposed), screening of nallahs, construction and demolition waste (segregation, storage, processing and recycling) among others. As per the figures, Panchkula MC has achieved 55% score in mandatory parameters, 51.25% in essential parameters and 20% in desirable parameters. “The Swachh Survekshan 2020 certification category weightage is of 1,500 marks (star rating and ODF) which makes for 25% of the total marks. Only the star rating result (1,000 marks) is out while the overall result is pending,” she said. In last year’s overall Swachh Survekshan ranking, Panchkula had achieved the 71st rank.Panchkula had made improvement in its Swachhta League rank by getting the 54th rank and the fourth position in Haryana in the Swachh Survekshan 2020 league for the first quarter released by the Government of India on December 31 last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/setback-panchkula-gets-zero-star-in-garbage-free-rating/story-WjSRSHTVXzhKHGdRSQ3itN.html
21-05-2020||City||Three stars for Karnal in swachh ratings||The bastion of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Karnal has received a 3-star rating in the garbage-free cities survey conducted by the Union housing and urban affairs ministry.Though three stars signify a poor rank, with 7-star rating being the highest, Karnal has fared much better than the other cities of Haryana, while being at par with Punjab’s Chandigarh and Nawanshahr. With 1-Star rating, Rohtak also received a mention in the list of 141 cities.Overjoyed by the performance, Karnal mayor Renu Bala Gupta said, “It’s a big achievement for the people of Karnal as it is the only city from Haryana to have grabbed a 3-Star rating, equivalent to Chandigarh.” She congratulated the civic officials and said more efforts were required to improve the rating further.Municipal commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said the star rating is awarded on the basis of 25 key parameters fixed for solid waste management. “Last year there were only 19 parameters, making the survey even tougher this year, but our performance was better,” he added.“Karnal had got 3-star rating last year and more efforts will be made to get better results next year. The capacity of the solid waste management plant is being enhanced with the construction of a new 50 MLD unit,” Yadav said.The commissioner said the city had already improved its rating in the Swachh Survekshan 2021 as it had got 500 points for ODF++ category and the 3-star rating added 600 points.Launched in January 2018, the star rating protocol aims to institutionalise a mechanism for cities to achieve garbage-free status, and to motivate them to achieve higher degrees of cleanliness.As per the reports by Union housing and urban affairs ministry, six cities in the country have achieved 5-star rating, 65 have three stars and 70 got 1-star rating this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-stars-for-karnal-in-swachh-ratings/story-g9ULUbhuHjvss79g1vZs6I.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Red zone tag stays or goes: Chandigarh admn to take call this week||The Chandigarh administration will decide on changing the red zone tag of the city to orange zone within this week.The city was designated a red zone by the central government on April 15. On May 17, the Centre had empowered the states and UTs to delineate a red zone into an orange zone.UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida said, “The administration will be taking a call on the issue within this week after taking stock of the situation on the ground.”Parida said the administration was considering allowing opening of salons and barber shops in the next couple of days. The barber shops will have to be opened as per the standard operating protocol prepared by the administration.ADDRESSING ISSUES OF CONTAINMENT ZONESDeputy commissioner (DC) Mandip Singh Brar said though there is a lot of restlessness in the minds of those residing in the containment areas, as per the Centre’s guidelines, further relaxation could not be given. Any relaxation in entry/exit has a risk of infecting the rest of the city. He, however, said all essential items were being provided to the residents through the administration’s machinery.The DC has directed sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) to facilitate solutions to the problems faced by people in the six containment zones in the city — Bapu Dham Colony, parts of Sector 30, Kachhi Colony in Dhanas, Shastri Nagar, parts of Sector 52 and parts of Sector 38.Brar said, “SDMs have been authorised to actively persuade those employers who are threatening to fire people living in containment zones. It is not the fault of people living in such zones. Everybody needs to have sympathetic attitude and help people living in containment zones.”DE-CONTAINMENT AFTER NO CASE FOR 28 DAYSBrar said a locality can only be free from containment zone tag if there is no positive case reported there for 28 consecutive days.Given that no case is reported from the areas for the stipulated period, the expected timeline for the same has been fixed as May 26 for parts of Sector 38, May 27 for Sector 52, May 30 for Shastri Nagar, June 4 for parts of Sector 30, and June 8 for Kachhi Colony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/red-zone-tag-stays-or-goes-chandigarh-admn-to-take-call-this-week/story-JEvHY5Cz6smLYYg3udaLbJ.html
21-05-2020||City||Ghodbunder to be sealed for the second in a week; all shops to be shut||For second time in a week, Ghodbunder will be sealed due to increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the area. It was earlier sealed from May 15 to May 18. However, with no decrease in cases, the civic body on Wednesday decided to shut the area completely from May 21 (midnight) to May 26. All shops including vegetable vendors, meat, egg, fish shops and bakeries will be closed in the area; only medical stores, dairy and grocery shops will remain open.Majiwada Manpada ward, which covers the Ghodbunder Road area, currently has around 70 cases. The ward officer had tried to restrict movement last week, however social distancing norms were violated still.Anuradha Babar, assistant municipal commissioner of the ward, said, “The shops selling meat, fish and chicken will be closed. No vegetable or any other vendors or temporary shop will be allowed. We will allow home delivery of groceries, vegetables, milk and dairy products. Apart from this only medical and grocery shop can function.”She added, “The social distancing norms were not followed, people still continued to crowd markets and shops. Thus, we have decided to keep most of them closed and ensure social distancing norms are followed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghodbunder-to-be-sealed-for-the-second-in-a-week-all-shops-to-be-shut/story-jHA41CvSD9EJDRC4NYhEmL.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||7 Haryana districts on alert as locusts approach state’s borders||With the reports of locusts entering some pockets of neighbouring Punjab and Rajasthan, the Haryana government has put on alert its seven bordering districts — Sirsa, Fatehabad, Hisar, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Rewari and Mahendergarh — and asked the administrations to take all-out preventive and remedial steps. Locusts, which fly in swarms often covering almost the entire skyline of an area, are short-horned grasshoppers with migratory habit, marked polymorphism (genetic variation within a population) and feed voraciously on crops and vegetations.According to latest reports, locust swarms have already been reported entering Phulon Chadha and Panniwala Morka villages of Sirsa district. Additional chief secretary, agriculture, Sanjeev Kaushal said the state government which was in a constant touch with the Centre’s locust control unit in Jodhpur as well as its Punjab counterpart, agreed locusts were reportedly moving towards the districts bordering Rajasthan and Punjab.He said the government has authorised deputy commissioners to form farmers’ groups, give them advisories and supply the required insecticides with up to 100% subsidy. The local administration has also been supplied stocks of the required insecticides, he added.Locusts swarms are said to be a rare phenomenon as India has not witnessed any full-blown locust cycles after 1962, though in 1978 and 1993, large-scale upsurges were observed, senior Haryana agriculture department officials said, adding that localised locust breeding has also been reported and controlled in 1998, 2002, 2005, 2007 and 2010. The situation remained normal and no major breeding and swarm formation has been reported in this part of the country after that. Such swarms were last spotted in Rajasthan, Punjab and bordering villages of Haryana in February this year, though no crop loss was reported. PREVENTION AND REMEDYBesides insecticides, locusts also can be prevented from settling on crops and vegetations by beating drums/making loud noise. Since swarms settle towards sunset, insecticides sprayed in night or early morning decimate them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/7-haryana-districts-on-alert-as-locusts-approach-state-s-borders/story-cdLAphlQ8i7Ta36bqDo5AI.html
21-05-2020||City||Thane civic body sends notice to pvt lab over testing discrepancies||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has given a notice to a private Covid-19 testing laboratory and has proposed to cancel its testing licence after the corporation found discrepancies in the results. On rechecking 12 of the swab samples tested by the lab, the civic lab found five samples negative, which the private lab had tested positive. The civic commissioner gave the lab 48 hours to give clarification or a criminal case will also be registered against them for violating the norms of Indian Council of Medical Research and wasting the resources of the city.The rising number of COVID cases in the last one week has led to cause of concern for the corporation. The corporation decided to cross check the result of the private laboratory in their laboratory.Vijay Singhal, civic commissioner said, “We tested 12 samples which the laboratory reported positive on May 11 and 12. Out of these, we found five negative. The positive results led to a lot of mental and physical trouble to the people, while the resources of the city’s healthcare system were also wasted on people who were negative. We also realized that the discrepancies were due to the violation of ICMR norms by the lab.”He added that the lab also did random testings without prescription of a doctor, which was not allowed as per the guidelines of the government. “We have served a notice to the lab that if they do not givea satisfactory response to the discrepancies we will register a criminal case against them. We have also proposed to cancel their testing license and they will not be allowed to carry further testings.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-civic-body-sends-notice-to-pvt-lab-over-testing-discrepancies/story-lulXk4wLcHpEQxTYA0SmPJ.html
21-05-2020||Mumbai||Nandgaonkar demands capsigranedes for police force||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) leader Bala Nandgaonkar has asked the state government to provide capsigrenades and chilli sprays to deal with violent agitations.Nandgaonkar, in his letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, said it is necessary in view of the repeated attacks on the police force. “Police personnel are being attacked and this is needed to instil fear in those elements,” said Nandgaonkar.He said that these grandees will deter such elements and boost the morale of the police force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/nandgaonkar-demands-capsigranedes-for-police-force/story-NCBBwflIEOpS9JGQYB3VmJ.html
21-05-2020||City||Mumbra teen dies of liver disease as five hospitals refuse to admit her||A 13-year-old girl from Mumbra, who was suffering from a liver disease, died on Tuesday night after she could not get timely medical help as five hospitals turned her away . The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has initiated an inquiry.Nafiza Shaikh was suffering from a chronic liver disease in which fluid accumulates in the stomach, and gradually makes it difficult to breathe. The fluid has to be extracted if she experienced pain in her stomach.Her father, Hasibur Rehman Shaikh, 60, took her to five hospitals, but they refused to admit her. As he could not arrange for transport, he carried his daughter from one hospital to another.“She had this ailment for a month. We first took her to our doctor’s clinic at Amrut Nagar. But, the doctor had insufficient staff and did not have the equipment to treat my daughter. He wrote a note explaining the situation and suggested a few hospitals where I could seek medication,” said Shaikh, a cleric.“I left the clinic with the doctor’s note around 3pm. As I was about to reach one hospital at 8pm, my daughter’s voice was becoming feeble. I was continuously talking to her to ensure she was conscious. But, I faced the same rejection at that hospital,” said Shaikh.Outside the hospital, some passers-by noticed Shaikh carrying his daughter and contacted a social worker. “He helped my daughter get admission to the hospital by 10pm. But, within an hour, she died. It was seven long hours till we got medical help,” said Shaikh.Shaikh said that he forgot his daughter’s medical file in the TMC office when he went to get her death certificate as he got into an argument with one of the staffers, so he does not know the exact name of the disease.The hospital did not answer the calls.Nafisa was the youngest among Shaikh’s four children.Manish Joshi, deputy municipal commissioner, said, “The health department has initiated an inquiry. This is an unfortunate incident. A special meeting will be held with all private hospital officials on Thursday to discuss the issue. Mumbra is facing a dearth of good private hospitals. Especially during a pandemic, one has to provide help and medical attention to everyone without any bias. As soon as the inquiry report comes, necessary action will be taken.”Doctors said the disease is not life-threatening if timely treatment is given.A general practitioner, Dr Mohiduddin Raut, said, “On the basis of Nafiza’s sonography and some blood reports, it shows she was suffering from a liver disease, but it was not life- threatening. Most private hospitals are not admitting patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbra-teen-dies-of-liver-disease-as-five-hospitals-refuse-to-admit-her/story-gkSMz5Sb9NY5kjpa4uZonO.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||BBMB staffer found dead in house in Sec 36||A 55-year-old man was found dead at his house in the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) Colony in Sector 36, police said on Wednesday.Identified as Subash of Kangra in Himachal Pradesh, he worked as a peon in the BBMB office and used to live alone. He was not reporting to work for the past few days, following which police were alerted. Upon breaking into his house, cops found his body on the floor.After collecting samples for Covid-19 testing, a health team moved the body to Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16. The body’s examination revealed Subash had died two days ago, said police. A relative disclosed Subash was suffering from black jaundice.Ruling out foul flay, police have initiated inquest proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bbmb-staffer-found-dead-in-house-in-sec-36/story-CvNNiSXcwgyZHv3IJm2n7K.html
21-05-2020||City||Security guards of Mohali housing society attacked for stopping three residents for checking||The police on Wednesday booked three residents of a housing society in Mohali’s Peer Muchalla for assaulting the security guards stationed at the gates.The guards, Sachin and Pawanveer, had stopped a car for checking and sanitisation at the entry of Bollywood Heights society in Peer Muchalla on Tuesday night.A resident of the society in his complaint to the police said in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, the society guards had been entrusted with the responsibility of checking every person and vehicle entering the society. The accused, Anish, Munish and Karan Garg, got agitated and assaulted the security guards. A resident tried to stop them but the accused misbehaved with him as well. A case was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/security-guards-of-mohali-housing-society-attacked-for-stopping-three-residents-for-checking/story-8eWBgWvYb9GK1Yv5pMyyaN.html
21-05-2020||Mumbai||CM to decide on newspaper delivery soon||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday held a meeting with newspaper distributors of Mumbai and assured that a decision on restarting door-to-door delivery of newspapers, which has been stopped temporarily, would be taken after looking at the current Covid-19 situation. The state government had stopped door-to-door delivery of newspapers and magazines from April 20 due to the extent of the outbreak.Thackeray, in the meeting held via videoconferencing, called it a ‘temporary’ measure and said newspapers are a ‘daily need’. A statement from the chief minister’s office said, “Currently, delivery of newspapers is stopped due to the scare of Covid-19 but this is temporary. We will see the situation and find a way from this soon.” In the meeting, newspapers vendors and distributors said housing societies in Mumbai are also not allowing delivery of newspapers due to fear of Covid-19 spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cm-to-decide-on-newspaper-delivery-soon/story-vLXsfNLUv0TrVIJAGBoqZP.html
21-05-2020||Mumbai||MMRDA begins work on another 1,000-bed Covid facility||Two days after handing over the first phase of the city’s first open-ground isolation and quarantine facility to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) on Wednesday started works on the second phase of the makeshift Covid-19 hospital at the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) grounds.The new facility will also have 1,000 beds, of which 100 beds will serve as the intensive care unit (ICU), while rest of the 900 beds will have oxygen and non-oxygen facilities, officials said. The work is expected to be completed in another 15-20 days. On Wednesday, authorities started base work and ground-levelling activities for the facility. Unlike the first phase, the second phase will also treat critical symptomatic patients. “The facility will be constructed a little ahead of the existing phase which was handed over to BMC on Monday,” said an official from MMRDA. Both the structures will not face any issues during the upcoming monsoon, officials said.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had asked MMRDA to assist in setting-up modular and quarantine and isolation facility in order to ramp up the number of beds as part of the city’s preparedness to battle the pandemic. Mumbai alone has over 22,000 cases, the highest in Maharashtra.The first phase of the facility was built in 15 days. MMRDA plans to build another isolation and quarantine facility in Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mmrda-begins-work-on-another-1-000-bed-covid-facility/story-p4prMrWW88z9LqUpySNZNO.html
21-05-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 survivor’s tale: Locked up during lockdown in Mumbai||A lot has happened in the last 23 days. On the morning of April 26, I got the phone call I dreaded the most. “Sorry, Ameya, but you have tested positive for Covid-19,” the caller said. Since that day and May 19, Mumbai went from 5,407 positive cases to 22,746, Iqbal Singh Chahal replaced Praveen Pardeshi as the city’s municipal commissioner, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray fended off a constitutional crisis to retain his post, India has gone from Lockdown 2.0 to 3.0 to 4.0, and I returned home to rousing applause from my building neighbours after spending the entire period locked in a 200-sq-ft quarantine centre room.I finally tested negative on May 18, after testing positive four times in three weeks. It was stressful, yes, but I realised a few things that I could do but hadn’t in over 15 years as a journalist: I slept before midnight and woke up at 7am, and in what could only be described as a miracle, I exercised every morning. The last time I remember doing any form of exercise was three years ago when I climbed 13 floors to reach my home during a power outage. Now, yoga, breathing exercises and suryanamaskars have become routine. In ‘normal’ times, I would sleep at 3am and wake up only after 10am. Now, it feels a bit weird to sleep beyond 7am.From setting a ‘drink water now’ reminder on my mobile phone, I have been glugging around four litres of water every day to stay hydrated. Responding instantly to all messages and phone calls – almost all to enquire about my wellbeing – has become second nature, leaving my family and friends with no reason to complain anymore.Vegetables have replaced meat and fish as my staple food. Paneer, which I found in my lunchbox daily, is my new chicken. At dinner, every night, I have discovered biryani can be vegetarian (and, ahem, healthy too).On the flip side, I didn’t taste fresh air ever since I stepped into the quarantine room on the night of April 26. The room – in a hotel-turned-hospital at Goregaon – had an air-conditioner and sealed windows. I found solace looking out at trees swaying in the breeze. In the beginning, an air-conditioner seems like a boon in Mumbai’s hot and humid weather, but as days went by, I could not breathe fresh air, I could not experience the daily smells of the city.The only person-to-person interaction I had in the past three weeks was with the medical support staff who came dressed in personal protective equipment (PPE) to deliver my meals. They left a food packet at the door and rang the bell. I rushed to the door on hearing footsteps, opened it almost simultaneously as the bell rang and engaged in a conversation before they headed to the next door. On most days, it was just small talk, and I didn’t see any of their faces – covered with masks and goggles – but the voices kept me sane. It was surreal – straight out of a post-apocalyptic movie – but I needed it, and I was thankful for the 20-30 seconds of human contact.I tested positive four times before finally beating the virus, but realised during my innumerable conversations with multiple doctors that the test results, after a point of time, don’t matter.What matters, the doctors say, is that one shows no symptoms and feels healthy and fit.I was both healthy and fit, even after 23 days of being confined alone to a room.What helped me stay that way? Moving to the world’s #NewNormal, which for me has just been #Normal.Ameya N Bhise, Senior Associate Editor with Hindustan Times in Mumbai, tested positive for Covid-19 on April 26. He spent 23 days in a quarantine centre before returning home on May 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/locked-up-in-the-lockdown/story-63L5iGiGqivvw4T7ZnJFPJ.html
21-05-2020||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray to attend Opposition meeting called by Sonia Gandhi||Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray will attend a video conference of opposition parties that has been called by Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi on May 22. This is the first time Thackeray will formally attend a meeting of opposition parties after it parted ways with former ally Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) last year.The Congress has called the meeting on Friday afternoon, during which political parties are expecting to discuss the current situation in the country, including the government’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, the migrant issue, and the government’s economic package.A senior Shiv Sena leader confirmed that Thackeray and party MP Sanjay Raut will participate in the meeting. “Uddhav Thackeray will be attending the meeting as most issues are surrounding the Covid-19 pandemic and measures. We are in the opposition and not a part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). We are running a coalition government with the Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) in the state. So it is no surprise that he [Thackeray] is attending the meeting,” said the Sena leader. Sena has not entered the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA).In January, the Thackeray-led party had skipped all meetings called by Sonia Gandhi to discuss the political situation in the wake of violence at Jawaharlal Nehru University and protests over the Citizenship Amendment Act. Days later Thackeray’s son Aaditya, who is now a cabinet minister in the Maharashtra government, met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi.Thackeray’s decision also assumes significance in the context of political developments in Maharashtra. The state unit of BJP has started mounting pressure on the Thackeray government over its handling of the Covid-19 crisis in Maharashtra, which has the highest number of cases in the country. The Sena-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (in alliance with NCP and Congress) has claimed good coordination between the Centre and the state in tackling the outbreak, but many within the government have blamed the Centre for its poor handling of the migrant issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/uddhav-thackeray-to-attend-opposition-meeting-called-by-sonia-gandhi/story-hU1vNoljD20AkvCl7p59RJ.html
21-05-2020||City||West Bengal migrants upset over cancelled train||When a group of migrants heard that Shramik train to Howrah in West Bengal has been cancelled because of cyclone Amphan, they rushed to Panvel railway station on Tuesday to verify it.Sajida Noor, 30, was one of them. She had packed her bags and was all set to leave her rented home at Kamothe. When she learnt that the train was cancelled, she was disheartened.Noor, husband works at a construction site, came to Kamothe four months ago with her eight-month-old girl.“It was a lengthy process to get ourselves registered at the police station. We waited for more than three hours in the sun for our turn and now this,” said Noor, who worked as a domestic help.Navi Mumbai police commissioner Sanjay Kumar appealed to migrant not to rush and gather at the railway station. “The train to West Bengal has been cancelled and any change would be communicated to migrants. Also, unless one gets a call from the police, no one should rush to the railway station. The date of the journey on the pass is tentative as a lot of trains are being cancelled and rescheduled daily.”While many migrants from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh have left the city by special trains, Bengal migrants have been stuck as the West Bengal government’s approval came late.“There is no assurance of trains now. We don’t want to starve to death or depend on others. We will hire a vehicle and leave,” said Arun Singh, 39, who worked at construction sites.Activist Vijay Patil, who has been coordinating with migrants for their travel, is flooded with calls from West Bengal migrants.“I keep telling them that they should wait for trains to start and that they should not travel by road or foot,” Patil said.Those migrants, who live with families, are more desperate to return home.“We have been waiting for more than two months now. It is becoming difficult to feed my family. We will start our journey no matter what,” said Sunil Rao, 40, who lives in Kalamboli and worked as a labourer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/west-bengal-migrants-upset-over-cancelled-train/story-NuT3MRqCPA6uF5YG9c643I.html
21-05-2020||City||Ulhasnagar and Panvel get new civic chiefs||The urban development department of Maharashtra has transferred the municipal commissioners of Ulhasnagar and Panvel. The state said the transfers were another step to tackle the Covid situation effectively.Two additional commissioners of Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) Sameer Unhale and Rajendra Ahivar too have been transferred.IAS officer Sudhakar Deshmukh, who was the commissioner of Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation, took charge of Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) on Wednesday.A letter by deputy secretary of urban development department Kailas Badhan said, “Sameer Unhale is the new civic commissioner of Ulhasnagar, while Sudhakar Deshmukh is the civic commissioner of PCMC. The decision to transfer the officers was taken to tackle the Covid situation in these cities.”The move comes 10 days after the Brihanmumbai municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi was transferred and IS Chahal was appointed the new Mumbai civic chief.IAS officer Ganesh Deshmukh, who was the PCMC chief, is likely to be posted as additional commissioner of TMC. Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of Thane Municipal Corporation, said, “Ganesh Deshmukh is likely to be posted as additional commissioner of TMC. Sanjay Herwade, who was earlier the deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, will be the second additional commissioner. They will take charge on Thursday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ulhasnagar-and-panvel-get-new-civic-chiefs/story-zZ1KEZoqHfqBJqdEGsKAEK.html
21-05-2020||Mumbai||225 labourers from Maharashtra return home, 1,875 still stranded in other states||Thanks to the efforts of Raigad-based labour organisation Sarvahara Jan Andolan (SJA) and state authorities, 225 migrant labourers who were stranded in Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have come home to their villages in Raigad district over the past week. Another 1,875 migrant labourers from Maharashtra, who are still in these three states, will be brought home over the coming weeks. Based in Mangav, in Raigad district, SJA has been working with migrant labourers for the past 30 years, and many such labourers are members of the organisation. SJA started tracing migrant labourers from Raigad district after some of them got in touch with the organisation after the lockdown was announced. Most of these labourers find work in neighbouring states for four to five months in the year. The rest of the time, they earn their living locally in Maharashtra as daily wagers. When they migrate, they usually take their entire families, including children and the elderly, with them. “When they leave Maharashtra, even they don’t know where the contractor employing them will take them,” said Ulka Mahajan of SJA.The labourers are from the Katkari samaj and are mostly brick kiln workers. A few also make charcoal, which is a skill indigenous to the community. Tracing the migrant labourers was a challenge. “Even though they have mobile phones, they are usually taken to remote areas with no network. Some of them contacted us after the lockdown. We asked these people to trace others from their village or anyone else they knew, and send us the details. The first call I received was on March 24,” said Mahajan.After Mahajan started receiving calls from labourers, members of SJA went from village to village, and pada to pada, to trace those who have left the state in search of work. Ultimately, SJA was able to compile a list of 2,100 workers and their families. “We gave a list to the tribal development department, and the district collector of Raigad. We told them there are 2,000 odd people stranded in Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, and Telangana, and they need to be brought back safely,” said Mahajan.The returning labourers are brought till the Maharashtra border by the respective state governments after being screened. From the border, buses organised by the Maharashtra department, bring them to their villages in Raigad. All expenses are borne by the Maharashtra government. The labourers are screened before they leave their temporary homes in the other states. Yashwant Sonu Jadhav, 35, who is from Ambivali village in Raigad, is a member of SJA and had been working in Gaundali village, in Karnataka. “When the lockdown was announced, we had no way of knowing what was going on. Even the news was announced in the local language. The villagers in the area where we worked were so scared of us. Someone came and told us to stop work right away. The villagers barred us from entering the village,” he said. Jadhav then called Mahajan, who told him to stay put.SJA contacted non-governmental organisations in the other states and requested them to distribute food to the stranded labourers. Mahajan said SJA’s first priority was to convince the labourers to stay where they were and not start walking. “We were talking to them right from the beginning, and we had decided that they should not leave; that they were safe where they were. Immediately after lockdown, relief work was organised. We spoke to several organisations and the state government. Contractors made the staying arrangements, but since work was not going on, the labourers were not getting daily wages. So they could not go to local market and purchase anything,” said Mahajan.Jadhav said the labourers were taken care of, but most had no money since they had not been paid since the lockdown. After travelling for two days on state buses, Jadhav returned home on May 17. “I boarded the bus in Karnataka at 5pm and reached the [Maharashtra] border at 10am the next day. We waited at the border for an hour, and then reached our village in Raigad at 11pm the same night,” he recalled.Upon return, the labourers must remain in quarantine for 14 days. Ravikant Jagtap, another labourer from Ambivali who was working in Karnataka, said, “We do not have any money as we have not been paid since March. We found one kilo of rice at our house, and four members of my family have been eating only that for two days now.”Brick kilns are supposed to come under construction work and migrant labourers ,like those SJA has been working with, should be registered under the Maharashtra Buildings and Other Construction Worker’s Welfare Board. Recently, the government announced ₹2,000 for construction workers. However, as these labourers are not registered under the board, they will not be eligible for this money.Mahajan said SJA has also been pushing for the government to start work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) so that these labourers may be employed again. They are also entitled to food grains under the Food Security Act, which is expected to be distributed soon.SJA stressed the need to register migrant labourers under the Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act, so they can avail benefits of the public distribution anywhere outside of their home state. “Since migrant workers are not a vote bank, no one is interested in their issues. This crisis will give us an opportunity and space to highlight their difficulties. Bringing them back was equally difficult for the bureaucracy,” said Mahajan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/225-maha-labourers-return-home-1-875-still-stranded-in-other-states/story-dqjym4Bcpa8kkEv8eFZRLN.html
21-05-2020||City||How’s your health: PM asks in phone call to Hisar cancer patient||A call from the Prime Minister acted as booster dose for a 65-year-old cancer patient from Hisar. How is your health, asked PM Narendra Modi in a phone call to Om Prakash of Sarangpur village on Tuesday night. “My name was randomly selected for a call from PM. At 6.30pm on Tuesday, I got intimation from the prime minister’s office (PMO) and was told that PM Modi would be calling me. Officials asked me not to record the call for security purpose,” said Om Prakash, who has enrolled himself with the Ayushman Bharat scheme. “Right at 8.30pm, I got another call, this time from PM Narendra Modi himself. He asked me about my health and from where I was availing treatment. He also enquired about the problems I am facing,” he added. Soon after PM’s call, a team of health department comprising senior doctors reached Prakash’s house and started a new course of treatment. “My father was diagnosed with throat cancer three months ago,” said his son Sunder Lal. “My father was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Hisar till now. We are labourers by profession. After the PM’s call, we are hopeful that my father would get the best treatment,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/how-s-your-health-pm-asks-in-phone-call-to-hisar-cancer-patient/story-CwPyPe6aq11WjJXlKuzDxM.html
21-05-2020||Mumbai||2,250 fresh cases take state’s tally to 39,297; 65 deaths push up toll to 1,390||For a fourth consecutive day on Wednesday, Maharashtra reported more than 2,000 Covid-19 cases with 2,250 fresh infections, taking the tally to 39,297. According to officials, reconciliation of figures with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) portal is still in process, resulting in a difference in the cumulative figures.The state reported 65 deaths, the third-highest single-day figure, bringing the toll to 1,390.Of the new cases, 1,372 were in Mumbai, India’s worst-hit city, which also reported 41 deaths. In a bleak first, Mumbai recorded more than 1,000 cases in a day without adding numbers from laboratory tests conducted on previous days.Of the 1,372 cases, 150 were on May 17 and 18 in various laboratories, but were reported on the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) portal on Wednesday. The remaining 1,222 patients tested positive in Mumbai on Wednesday. Of the 65 deaths, 41 were in Mumbai, 13 in Pune, three in Navi Mumbai, two each in Pimpri-Chinchwad, Solapur, Aurangabad city and Ulhasnagar. Thirty-two of the patients who died were above 60 years of age, while 31 were in the age group of 40 to 59 years and the remaining two were below the age of 40 years. Forty-eight of them had high-risk comorbidities, including diabetes, hypertension and heart ailments.The state saw 13,375 cases in the past seven days, while the deaths reported in this period were 415. Of them, in Mumbai, 8,371 cases and 245 deaths were during the past week. The month of May saw 28,799 cases and 931 deaths in Maharashtra, which included 17,057 cases and 551 deaths in Mumbai. This means 73.28% cases and 66.97% deaths in the state have come in the past 17 days. The first case of Covid-19 in the state was on March 9. After having crossed 25,000 cases on May 13, the next 5,000 in the state were reported in just three days. On May 9, the state tally had touched 20,220. The state took 53 days for its first 10,000 cases.After the restructuring of red zones by the state government on Tuesday, the area under curbs of the lockdown has reduced to just 18 municipal corporations, having a population of 2.91 crore. Earlier, 14 districts with a population of 6.56 crore were under the red zones. As many as 89.89% cases (33,383 of 37,136 on Tuesday) and 92.45% deaths (1,225 of 1,325 on Tuesday) have been reported in 18 municipal corporations (including nine in Mumbai Metropolitan Region) earmarked as red zones. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), governed by nine corporations and a few municipal councils, has the most Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra government, by its notification issued on Tuesday, allowed more industrial and commercial activities in rural and semi-urban areas by excluding them from red zones. The relaxations, however, will come into force from Friday. “Allowing more activities in more districts will help not only in ensuring revenue generation, but also in sending a positive message to people who are under distress due to the pandemic,” said a cabinet minister. According to a report prepared by the medical education and drugs department on May 20, the mortality rate in the state stood at 3.57%, down from 7.21% on April 12 and 3.71% on May 12. The country’s mortality rate hovers around 3.09%. The report stated that 72% of the admitted patients are asymptomatic, 23% are symptomatic and 5% critical. It also has stated that 27% patients have recovered so far. The number of tests in the state touched 3,07,072 on Wednesday. 2,67,775 of them were negative, which means 12.97% tested positive. Of the 14,074 samples tested in the past 24 hours, 2,250 were positive at 15.98%. A total of 3,48,508 people are currently under home quarantine, while 17,638 are under institutional quarantine. A total of 15,495 teams of health workers have screened 65.11 lakh people; 10,318 patients, including 679 on Sunday, have fully recovered from various hospitals, after testing positive in the past ten weeks. The recovery rate in the state has reached 26.25%.The state has 1,849 containment zones. In Mumbai, the municipal corporation has broken the zones into smaller ones for better monitoring.Gadchiroli was till Sunday the only district (among 36) in Maharashtra to not have a single case. Migrant workers who entered the district from Mumbai last week tested positive on Sunday, after which the district tally has reached eight on Wednesday. “We had been containing it by taking all precautions and due surveillance for more than two months. The virus transmission in the district is through migrants. We are tracing their contacts and have informed the Gondia district administration as a few of them have travelled there. We have prepared a 100-bed Covid-19 hospital in Gadchiroli and tracing for contacts is going on aggressively. We have also requested the administrations of the most affected municipal corporations and districts to not issue passes to travel to Gadchiroli,” said Dhanaji Patil, resident deputy collector of Gadchiroli. Maharashtra has ensured more than 5.20 lakh migrants have returned back to their home states. Anil Deshmukh, state home minister, said that 390 trains departed from various stations in the states. “207 trains departed for Uttar Pradesh, 51 to Bihar, 34 to Madhya Pradesh, 13 to Rajasthan and three to West Bengal. Maharashtra government has been bearing the entire cost of their fare, but they are expected to maintain restraint by not crowding at the stations without having approval for their turn,” he said.State transport (ST) buses ferried 2.02 migrants up to the borders of the neighbouring states or to the railway stations in 15,367 buses. According to an estimate, more than 10 lakh migrants have already moved out of Maharashtra in the last few weeks and more than 5 lakh are still waiting for traveling arrangements. Besides the trains and state transport buses, a few migrants have made their own arrangements in private vehicles, said an official from the relief and rehabilitation department.On Mumbai registering more than 1,000 cases on Wednesday, it was observed that on Sunday, Monday and Tuesday, between 885 and 983 persons tested positive in the city, but the total cases recorded crossed 1,000 after adding figures from private laboratory tests of the previous days.However, Daksha Shah, deputy executive health officer, BMC, said, “It cannot be counted like that. It is on the basis of reporting. The doubling rate has improved in Mumbai. “ On Sunday,Mumbai recorded 1,571 cases, of which 981 patients tested positive on Sunday, and 590 tested positive between May 10 and May 14. Similarly, on Monday, Mumbai recorded 1,185 cases, of which 885 patients tested positive on Monday, and 300 had tested positive between May 12 and 16, and the results were later updated on the portal. On Tuesday, Mumbai recorded 1,141 cases, of which 983 patients tested positive on Tuesday, and remaining 428 patients were tested in labs between May 14 and 16, but the results were later updated on the portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-250-fresh-cases-take-state-s-tally-to-39-297-65-deaths-push-up-toll-to-1-390/story-gKB0YDXEM6Sz7SZeYesLAK.html
21-05-2020||Mumbai||BMC designates cemeteries for Christians, Chinese and Jews||After members of Christian community complained about lack of burial spaces for bodies of Covid-19 victims, the civic body issued a circular designating four cemeteries for Christians, two for Chinese and one for the Jewish community.Last month, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had allowed burial within city limits, provided the ground is large enough to ensure that there is no threat of transmission to the area’s residents. Other groups that traditionally bury their dead were asked to cremate bodies. However, 20 Muslim cemeteries were allotted for burials.Following which, the civic body faced a backlash from other minority communities which said that it hurt their religious sentiments that provisions for their dead were not taken into consideration.On Sunday, a 61-year-old Christian woman from Mahim had to be cremated at Oshiwara crematorium, when the family was not provided with a burial space in cemeteries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-designates-cemeteries-for-christians-chinese-and-jews/story-bthGbZufsYm1w7iplaRv2I.html
21-05-2020||City||Migrants face unending wait for buses in Thane||Padma Bhakar, 26, a resident of Basti village in Uttar Pradesh, is four months pregnant and has been standing at Majiwada junction in Thane since Tuesday waiting for a bus. She is carrying her three-year-old boy and has hardly eaten anything.“We travelled from Bhiwandi to Majiwada junction by asking for a lift from people. I am tired of this endless wait for a bus,” said Padma. Her husband Sanjeev managed to get into a bus on Tuesday but had to alight as by the time Padma and her son boarded, the seats were full.“The moment a bus comes, everyone rushes in. We have been surviving on biscuits for the past 48 hours,” said Sanjeev, 29, who used to work as a mason in a construction company in Bhiwandi.Like them, hundreds of migrants, including pregnant women and children, are waiting at various junctions in Thane, Bhiwandi and Kalyan for days to board state transport buses provided by the Thane district collector to go to their hometown.Ravindra Kumar, 33, an autorickshaw driver, who is from Madhya Pradesh, has been waiting at Durgadi junction in Kalyan with a group from his village.“On Saturday, we were told that a bus will depart from here, so we gathered here,” said Kumar, adding his house owner in Kalyan will not take him back.Till now, around 56,000 migrants from across Thane district have been sent home by the district collector in buses and train. However, lakhs are still waiting for their turn.“We understand their situation. We are making all effort to provide them transport and meals. Our volunteers are also distributing food to those waiting at junctions. We request everyone to not step out of their homes,” said Rajesh Narvekar, district collector, Thane. A total of 21,500 migrants have been sent in 17 trains and 34,500 have been ferried in 1,553 buses to their native places in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha and Jharkhand.Lack of coordination and announcement about buses and trains is adding to the chaos. “Some of us have been left as we do not get proper information,” said Shakti Singh, 37, a resident of Rajasthan. “I did not have a proper meal for two days. I am walking to various junctions such as Anjurphata, Damankarnaka and Bhiwandi-Kalyan bypass every day hoping to get a bus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrants-face-unending-wait-for-buses-in-thane/story-zdDksOXS6CTbpUPDOeSa8L.html
21-05-2020||City||Body mix-up case: Cops book mason for wrong identification||Three days after it came to light that a wrong body was handed over to a man, the Vashi police on Wednesday booked the man for not being able to identify his daughter’s body.A sanitation worker of Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) hospital, Vashi, was also booked. After a 29-year-old labourer died and was taken to the hospital for a coronavirus test, his friend went to NMMC hospital on Saturday to collect the body after the test report came. But, the hospital authorities could not find the body. Two days later, the NMMC hospital learnt that the body was handed over to Dashrat Suryawanshi, a mason from Digha, thinking it to be his daughter’s. Suryawanshi’s daughter died of jaundice on May 4 and he took her body to the NMMC hospital for a coronavirus test. Both the labourer and the girl had tested negative for Covid.He claimed that the hospital staffers showed him the body from far and he thought it was his daughter’s and cremated it. NMMC chief Annasaheb Misal said, “An inquiry has been initiated and I am waiting for the reports. Based on the reports, action will be taken.”The police registered a first information report (FIR) against the two people.Sanjeev Dhumal, senior police inspector, Vashi, said, “The case has been registered against sanitation staff from the morgue, Sunil Veljibhai Waghela, for being irresponsible, and Dashrat Suryawanshi for wrong identification of the body. Both are in their 40s and a case has been registered under section 297 of Indian Penal Code.”“No arrest has been made. The investigation is still in the primary stage,” said Dhumal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/body-mix-up-case-cops-book-mason-for-wrong-identification/story-w444tPIA9KesxW5NqZfLzK.html
21-05-2020||Mumbai||Dharavi’s death rate rise to 4.1% from 3% in two weeks||The mortality rate due to Covid-19 in Dharavi has increased to 4.1% from 3% in the last two weeks. The death toll at Asia’s largest slum rose to 56 on Wednesday from 20 on May 5. On Wednesday, Mumbai recorded 1,372 new Covid- positive cases with 41 fatalities, taking the city’s total to 24,118 with 841 deaths.Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said to bring down the mortality rate, people need to take extra care of senior citizens as they are more vulnerable to catch the infection than others.As per the data shared by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), Dharavi recorded 665 Covid-19 cases and 20 deaths with 3% mortality rate on May 5. The rate increased to 4.1% on May 19 with 1,353 positive cases and 56 deaths. An analysis of data shows that the Covid-19 death rate in Dharavi is higher than Mumbai (3.51%), Maharashtra (3.56%) and the national average (3.13%).“Our mortality rate is much lower as compared to other BMC wards. We have started to screen senior citizens to identify them at an early stage so that they can get special attention. This will help us to reduce the mortality rate,” said Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner, G north ward.On Wednesday, Dharavi recorded 25 new Covid-19 cases taking the total to 1,378 with 56 fatalities. Civic officials informed that, till date total 525 patients have been discharged from Dharavi. Recovery rate of patients at the slum stood at 39%.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal had conducted a Covid review meeting via video conference on Wednesday with all ward officers and instructed them to keep at least 100 normal and 10 ICU beds ready in each ward as a precautionary measure. He also instructed them to set up a war room at ward level and asked them to appoint community leaders with on-ground knowledge to help officials trace cases. The war rooms will also smoothen the process of distribution of food packets and ration. The civic chief also asked all private nursing homes to remain open for the treatment of non-Covid patients.The commissioner also instructed to focus on institutional quarantine of patients.Meanwhile, an employee working in the technical team of a Marathi news channel died at SevenHills hospital on Wednesday. He was tested Covid-19 positive last week. This was the first death of a media employee in the city due to the novel coronavirus disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dharavi-s-death-rate-rise-to-4-1-from-3-in-two-weeks/story-dqTmA8KR2hAWJ05t9dkPvN.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Now, three persons can travel in cab in Haryana||The Haryana government on Wednesday ordered that taxis and cab aggregators can ply with a maximum two passengers in addition to the driver. This means that there can only be three persons inside the vehicle.“The maxi cabs can ply with half of their seating capacity. Auto-rickshaws and e-rickshaws are allowed to ply with two persons in addition to the driver. One pillion rider will be allowed on a two-wheeler and it will be mandatory for both the riders to wear masks, gloves and helmets,” stated guidelines issued on Wednesday by the transport department. A manually pulled rickshaw will carry not more than two passengers, the guidelines added. Both drivers and passengers will cover their faces with mask or cloth and motor vehicles would be regularly sanitised. Drivers and passengers should also regularly sanitise their hands, the guidelines said.The transport department on Wednesday also issued standard operating protocol (SoP) regarding interstate travel in the Haryana Roadways buses.Number of passengers on board a bus will not exceed 30 at any time, stated the SoP. A special New Delhi railway station service has also been launched, available only to rail passengers boarding or alighting at the New Delhi railway station. Buses being deployed for ferrying passengers would be fully sanitised inside out, said a communication.Sanitiser bottles must be placed inside the buses at all times and wearing of masks by everyone on-board the bus and on bus stands is mandatory. All passengers should carry sanitisers with them, the SoP said.Passengers intending to undertake the interstate travel will have to carry their identity proofs and tickets in physical form along with a photocopy of each. The bus staff as well as passengers must have functional ‘Aarogya Setu’ app on their mobile phones. Thermal screening of all passengers will be done and it will be ensured that the staff and passengers are free of any Covid-19 symptoms. If any such person is on board, he would be de-boarded and quarantined, the SoP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-three-persons-can-travel-in-cab-in-haryana/story-ENT5nlGO8NDhGaYAQLzUaO.html
21-05-2020||City||27-year-old undertrial ends life in Amritsar jail||AMRITSAR A 27-year-old inmate allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself in a bathroom of a barrack in Amritsar central jail on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as Baljit Singh of Teda village in Ajnala subdivision. According to the jail officials, Baljit had been lodged in the jail since January this year. They said he had been booked under Sections 363 (kidnapping), 366 (abducting or inducing woman to compel her for mar­riage) and 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The officials said Baljit’s fellow inmates found him hanging in the barrack’s bathroom in the morning. The undertrial used a rope to hang himself from an iron grill in the bathroom. Jail superintendent Arshdeep Singh Gill said the inmates with the help of the jail staff rescued the victim from the bathroom. “The doctors in the jail provided him oxygen as he was still breathing. He died later on way to the Amritsar civil hospital,” he said.He added that the body of the deceased was handed over to his family after postmortem. A jail official, who didn’t wish to be named, said the victim had filed a bail application in a local court, which was rejected recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/27-year-old-undertrial-ends-life-in-amritsar-jail/story-eZfFt6PmA9TAcdq5vamKaO.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||5 Haryana cops hurt in stone-pelting incident near Delhi-Ggm border||Five Haryana police personnel were injured on Wednesday when some people from Delhi’s Kapashera allegedly pelted stones at them after trying to forcibly enter the state’s territory, officials said.There were reports that some people, stated to be workers, wanted to travel to Udyog Vihar in Gurugram but were stopped by the Haryana police at the Delhi-Gurugram border.However, some of them tried to force their way despite strict measures put in place by Haryana on its borders and clashed with the police. In the incident, five policemen were injured, the officials said.Haryana’s home minister Anil Vij said there has been a stone-pelting incident at Delhi’s Kapashera border with Haryana. He said some people tried to enter Haryana but were stopped.“They wanted the borders to be opened for them to enter Haryana. They pelted stones at Haryana police personnel,” Vij said. “I said under no circumstances will we open the border. The Delhi High Court had given us directions to allow interstate movement for certain categories like doctors, drivers of vehicles with essentials, Delhi municipal committee worker staff and medical staff,” he said.“The relaxation is not for common people. I cannot allow movement of common people. Our police force is working round-the-clock to keep everyone in Haryana safe (from COVID-19). Those who will pelt stones at them, we are not going to spare them. We will take strict action against them,” said Vij.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/5-haryana-cops-hurt-in-stone-pelting-incident-near-delhi-ggm-border/story-QfD8GLt287Due3hxQk4UaO.html
21-05-2020||Mumbai||Governor Koshyari asks state to prepare for June-July; CM Uddhav Thackeray skips review meeting||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Wednesday asked the state administration to be prepared for a challenge in the coming months considering the rise in Covid-19 cases. He asked the government to provide enough medical facilities, additional medical staff, and beds, considering the likely caseload in the coming months.Koshyari also directed the state to take special measures for containment zones such as Dharavi. The directives were issued in a high-level meeting called by Koshyari to review the preparedness of the state in dealing with the pandemic. The Governor had called for a joint conference with chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday evening at Raj Bhavan but the latter skipped the review meeting.“The chief minister personally called the Governor and informed him that he would not be able to attend the meeting,” said an official, requesting anonymity. Later, the chief minister’s office clarified that chief secretary Ajoy Mehta attended the meeting called by the Governor on behalf of Thackeray.The Governor had called the meeting a day after a delegation of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders headed by Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, met him on Tuesday. “Considering the number of cases in June and July, be prepared from now onwards. The state government should prepare to have enough medical facilities, doctors, staff and beds ready considering the likely caseload in the coming months,” the Governor said.He asked the government to keep a dashboard providing handy information about the availability of beds, doctors, nurses, and para-medical staff for the entire state so that the same could be deployed as and when required.He also suggested that the state consider providing incentives to frontline staff like sanitation workers, police, health workers, and ward boys who are doing commendable work in the battle against Covid-19. Koshyari also urged the state administration to take steps to ensure that non-Covid patients do not suffer for want of medical facilities.A presentation on the situation in Mumbai was made by BMC commissioner IS Chahal, while Dr Pradip Vyas, health secretary apprised the Governor about the preparedness of the state.Koshyari also reviewed arrangements made by the state to send migrant workers to their respective hometowns and the status of relief camps started for migrant workers in Maharashtra.The meeting was attended by chief secretary Ajoy Mehta, additional chief secretary (home) Sanjay Kumar, DGP Subodh Jaiswal, additional chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, additional chief secretary Nitin Kareer, additional chief secretary Manoj Saunik and other senior officials.On Tuesday, Fadnavis had alleged that the health system of the state has collapsed. “Covid-19 patients are not getting beds in hospitals. The state seems to have not taken appropriate steps to deal with the crisis. Hence, Maharashtra has a maximum number of cases across the country and the numbers are still rising,” he had said in his memorandum. The former CM had also demanded a financial package for the state.On Wednesday, state BJP president Chandrakant Patil also declared plans to organise a protest on May 22, for which where party workers have been directed to put up black flags at their houses and wear black armbands to protest the failures of the state government.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Wednesday said the protest declared by the BJP is an insult to the corona warriors. “People will fail such attempts as the state is united in this fight against the coronavirus. We need to be united in this health crisis,” Pawar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/governor-koshyari-asks-state-to-prepare-for-june-july-cm-uddhav-thackeray-skips-review-meeting/story-vTJBs4Xb4SEdwet0hSZJoM.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||All 22 Haryana districts classified as orange zones||The Haryana health department on Wednesday categorised all 22 districts of the state into orange zone in terms of Covid-19 spread. Only two districts – Sonepat and Faridabad – were marked as hotspots or red zones prior to the Wednesday’s classification done by the state government. Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said six parameters along with their critical and desirable values as communicated in May 17 guidelines issued by the Union health ministry were taken into consideration to delineate the 22 districts in orange zone. “We analysed and found that all our districts are leaning more towards the desirable values. We are not yet there as far as desirable values are concerned, but none of our districts are comprehensively leaning towards the critical values,” Arora said.The six parameters on the basis of which fresh evaluation has been done are total number of active cases, active cases per lakh population, doubling rate (calculated over seven-day period), case fatality rate, testing ratio (number of tests per lakh population) and sample positivity rate (confirmation rate).The benchmark for critical and desirable levels are, however, dynamic and can be revised by the Union health ministry as per the evolving situation at the field level, officials said.‘Only containment zones are relevant now’ Top state officials said in the changed scenario post-May 17, wherein more relaxations have been given in Lockdown 4.0, the relevance of red, orange and green zones has greatly reduced. “What actually matter now are the containment zones. The primary area is a containment zone where intensive action needs to be taken to break transmission. This area should be well defined by the district administration. Stringent action needs to be initiated within these zones in term of active search of cases, testing of all cases, contact tracing, strict enforcement of social distancing norms, identification of local community volunteers, emphasis on hand hygiene and use of masks. The containment zones have to be delineated based on mapping of cases, geographic dispersion of cases and contacts, area having well demarcated perimeter and enforceability of perimeter control,” said an official.How these districts became orange zonesNo district has more than 200 active cases – a desirable valueNo district has more than 15 active cases per lakh population – a desirable valueOnly Dadri, Faridabad, Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Mahendergarh, Rewari and Rohtak have doubling rate of more than 14 days – a critical valueOnly Panipat and Rohtak have case fatality rate of more than 6% – a critical valueAll districts have testing ratio of more than 65 tests per lakh population – a desirable leaning valueAll districts have sample positivity rate (confirmation rate) of less than 2% – a desirable value||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/all-22-haryana-districts-classified-as-orange-zones/story-Y7pxIA8wTtRNeclR7syCiP.html
21-05-2020||City||UP migrant dies on-board Shramik Special||A 48-year-old migrant worker died under mysterious circumstances on-board ‘Shramik Special’ train running from Punjab’s Ludhiana to Uttar Pradesh. As per the health department, he has tested negative for coronavirus. Deceased Sameer worked as a tailor in Ludhiana and was travelling with his nephew to his hometown in Gonda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-migrant-dies-on-board-shramik-special/story-YbxDlT3ay5uJtZj5M42AZI.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Little heed to night curfew, social distancing in 22 sites across Chandigarh: Police report||Chandigarh residents seem to have turned a deaf ear to the call for safety measures to prevent the spread of Covid. An extensive internal report prepared by Chandigarh Police, after a detailed inspection, reveals that social distancing norms are being violated in most parts of the city from 7am to 7m, when people are free to move about.The report made by senior superintendent of police (SSP) Nilambari Jagadale has been sent to all three field deputy superintendent of police (DSPs) and superintendent of police (SP, city). She has also asked them to enforce social distancing via a special drive in at least 22 sites highlighted in the report. They must deploy adequate police force for effective implementation of UT guidelines, and any laxity on part of DSPs will be viewed seriously.The report says that social distancing has been thrown to the winds at 22 sites. These include main markets of Sector 7, 8, booth market of Sector 27, electronic market of Sector 18, mobile market of Sector 22, rehri market of Sector 19, Krishna market of Sector 41, motor market of Sector 28, sabzi mandi of Sector 17, burial market, motor market of Sector 28, inner market of Sector 35, and markets of Sectors 15, 16, 23, 32, 35, 37, 44 and 46.On an alarming note, the report also says that people are freely roaming around during night curfew mostly in colonies and rural areas, especially in Bapu Dham and Kacchi colony which are containment zones. This raises concerns that if residents can ignore norms in containment zones which are guarded by police as well as CRPF personnel, then adherence to norms can hardly be expected in other areas.The ministry of home affairs, while relaxing curbs, had ordered strict enforcement of social distancing in markets and public places. However, the police report says these safety measures have been forsaken.On Tuesday, the number of confirmed Covid cases crossed the 200 mark in the city, of which more than 90 have recovered. Other areas where people have ignored nigh curfew are Mauli Jagran, EWS colony in Dhanas, Dadumajra, Indira colony, Tin colony in Sector 52, Sansi Colony Sector 38, Ram Darbar, Hallomajra, Palsora, Modern Housing Complex (MHC), villages including Dariya, Butrela, Attawa, Kishangarh, Khudha Ali Sher, Maloya, Burail, in societies of Sectors 49, 50, 51 and 63, as well as Sectors 22, 46 and 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/little-heed-to-night-curfew-social-distancing-in-22-sites-across-chandigarh-police-report/story-6KUNnQQOPxDOr8PDrK1HDN.html
21-05-2020||Mumbai||IIT-B clarifies allegations on non-payment of wages to labourers||A day after state housing minister Jitendra Awhad posted a social media update on the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) not paying construction workers, a fact-finding team from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and police visited IIT-B campus on Wednesday. IIT-B administration also issued a clarification on the issue on Wednesday.In the statement, the institute administration said, “The construction projects are being executed by CPWD — a government organisation that follows all GoI rules and regulations. As per the recent GoI scheme of payments through Higher Education Funding Agency (HEFA), all bills raised by CPWD are immediately reimbursed by HEFA directly. We clarify that there is no such payments pending at IIT-Bombay. CPWD, through their contractors, ensures timely payment of all workers.” The institute administration said that during the lockdown, CPWD has been asked to ensure timely payments or ‘kharchi’ and dry rations to all workers. It further added that the institute has also arranged one meal a day for about 250 labourers through Atal Aahar Yojana/ Roti Bank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iit-b-clarifies-allegations-on-non-payment-of-wages-to-labourers/story-vjxRQ2dH0l7bfNB4pWigbI.html
21-05-2020||Mumbai||Indians may reduce ordering food online, says study||A study by The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) across 51 cities showed that citizens are likely to reduce the frequency of ordering food online even after the situation normalises. The report ‘Impact of Covid-19 on urban mobility in India: evidence from a perception study’ released on Monday notes that 51% of more than 400 respondents, who usually ordered food online, said they would reduce the frequency of using this service post-lockdown.While 84% of the respondents used to order food online around twice a week before the Covid-19 crises, only 27% continue with the practise during the lockdown.On the other hand, online grocery shopping is expected to go up as 54% respondents said they would increase the use of online grocery shopping services even after the crises is over. “Overall, 40% of the respondents felt there was a higher risk associated with physically going to grocery stores even after the lockdown was over,” the study notes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/indians-may-reduce-ordering-food-online-says-study/story-d0ylLJ2Lmai1zMtfUbSQdM.html
21-05-2020||Mumbai||2 more cops succumb to virus; toll rises to 10 in city, 14 in state||Two more constables from the Mumbai Police succumbed to Covid-19 on Wednesday, bringing the total number of deaths in the city police force to 10. One of the deceased was a constable posted at Parksite police station in Vikhroli (West) while the other was the head constable of Sahar traffic police . The constable from Parksite police station was admitted at SevenHills Hospital eight days ago after he tested positive. Police sources said he was suffering from diabetes and hypertension. The head constable of Sahar traffic police had tested positive on May 6 and was taken to Jogeshwari Trauma Care Centre. Later on May 10, he was shifted to SevenHills Hospital.The death count in state police has touched 14. Local police said the death of a constable attached with ATS in Mumbai is being counted in state police figures. A total of 699 Mumbai Police personnel tested positive till Wednesday evening, of whom 99 have recovered. Across the state, a total of 1,388 personnel (1,246 constables and 142 officers) tested positive, of whom 428 have recovered and 948 are being treated.Migrants registration process goes digitalIn a bid to expedite the process of sending back migrants, the state government on Wednesday shifted the entire procedure of registration of migrants to digital format through National Migrants Information System (NMIS). Earlier, the process was being done manually at the police station level which consumed a lot of time. A total of 386 trains from Maharashtra have carried 5.27 lakh migrants back to their home states till Wednesday, informed Amitabh Gupta, principal secretary (special) and head of the three member committee formed for the migrants stranded in Maharashtra due to lockdown. The officer said 260 more trains are required to send back over 4 lakh migrants stranded in the state. On the basis of the daily applications being received from migrants, an average requirement of 30 trains gets added daily, the senior bureaucrat said. Gupta said, “We are immediately switching to NMIS which would maintain a central repository of migrant workers and facilitate better co-ordination between states and railways. It will also enable speedy inter-state communication for smooth movement of migrant workers.”Switching to digital medium also allows authorities to conduct contact-tracing and movement-monitoring using the mobile numbers.An additional manpower of 1,500 staff, aged below 40 years, from various departments of the state government would help Mumbai Police personnel in making transportation arrangements for stranded migrants till May 31 or till the next order.449 people held on Tuesday, second highest since lockdown The Mumbai Police on Tuesday registered 142 FIRs against 659 people, arresting 449 people for violating lockdown rules. This is the second highest number of arrests since lockdown started. Of the 142 FIRs, 62 are for unnecessary use of vehicles, 41 for gathering in one place and 32 for not wearing masks. Remaining seven cases were against shops for operating despite being non-essential services. 5K vehicles impounded on WednesdayA total of 5,034 vehicles have been impounded by the traffic police in Mumbai till 8pm on Wednesday including actor Ranvir Shorey’s car. Shorey took to Mumbai Police’s Twitter handle to complain against traffic police posted on the highway in Jogeshwari (East) for impounding his vehicle. The actor told police that he was helping his house-help by dropping him to hospital where his pregnant wife was admitted. The actor said it was a medical emergency and his house-help was asked to be at the hospital by the hospital authorities for paper work. A senior police officer said they have not lodged any FIR in the matter. Of the 5,034 vehicles impounded on Wednesday, a maximum of 2,048 are two-wheelers, 1,391 autorickshaws, 933 taxis and 662 are cars.City police receives 13 ambulances A day after writing to BMC seeking ambulances, the Mumbai Police has received 13 ambulances for carrying Covid-19 positive cops to hospitals in each of the 13 zones. Cyber dept to send personal warning for offensive posts“We have observed that certain people are using social media for posting offensive, abusive, defamatory and malicious posts. We are issuing a notice under section 149 of the Criminal Procedure Code to such users. We will be issuing separate notices individually to users (posting offensive messages) in their inboxes. We have already sent over 100 such notices,” said Balsing Rajput, SP, Maharashtra cyber department. 400 cases for Covid-related cyber-crimes “The Maharashtra Police till Wednesday registered 400 cases, including 382 FIRs and 18 non-cognisable complaints, for hate speech, fake news, rumours and cybercrimes related to Covid-19. A total of 213 accused are arrested. The cyber department has pulled down 102 controversial posts from social media platforms,” said Rajput. Two arrested for trying to sell grains at higher priceOfficers from Mumbai Police’s crime branch have arrested two men who were planning to sell food grains of Food Corporation of India in black market on higher rate to make profit. Follwing a tip-off, PI Sagar Shivalkar, head of unit 12, raided a room in Kandarpada in Dahisar and seized 218 sacks containing a total of 50kg wheat. The accused were caught shifting wheat from FCI’s sacks to private sacks. The police have seized the grains along with the truck.(With inputs from Jayprakash S Naidu, Manish K Pathak, Suraj Ojha and Pratik Salunke)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-more-cops-succumb-to-virus-toll-rises-to-10-in-city-14-in-state/story-h0NZwkhgSQF1nio96tEyYJ.html
21-05-2020||City||Mystery shrouds Amritsar ex-sarpanch’s death||A former sarpanch, Maur Singh, 55, of Ballarwal village was found dead under mysterious circumstances at his house in the village in Wednesday. His nephew Baljit Singh has alleged that Maur, who owed allegiance to the Congress, was murdered by his brother-in-law’s wife, Shindo, and son Sonu as they held a grudge dating back to the last panchayat polls. Baljit added that he had gone to visit these relatives.Ajnala DSP Sohan Singh said, “Maur often went to meet Shindo. His family claims that he was murdered, but we have not found any injury marks on his body, which has been sent for post-mortem. A case would be registered after the report.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mystery-shrouds-amritsar-ex-sarpanch-s-death/story-YxWwFleY2ZIFw94ZkpU5KM.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC resumes road repairs, priority is stalled projects||After a gap of two months, the Chandigarh municipal corporation resumed work on re-carpeting the city roads.MC chief engineer Shailender Singh said contractors have begun basic road cleaning work, while the laying of bitumen and tar-coal will begin in the next few days, as mixing plants are starting up. While some contractors reached the MC office, saying their labour is stranded in Himachal Pradesh, MC has taken up the matter with local authorities to issue them transit passes without delay. Shailender Singh said that first pending work which was stalled due to the lockdown will be finished first. It includes unfinished works in Sector 9 near the secretariat, Sector 34 and Sector 26.“We are aiming at completing allotted works worth ₹30 crore before monsoon. We roughly have little over a month for road construction work and will try to expedite the allotted work,” he said.MC commissioner KK Yadav clarified that funds will not be an issue since special grants for these works are lying safe with the accounts branch. As per MC’s internal estimates, apart from allotted works estimated at ₹30 crore, re-carpeting work is due on mostly internal roads at an estimated ₹40 crore. The chief engineer said that in coming General House meeting, they will be tabling estimates of several pending works for clearance of the house followed by the tender process and allotment of works.However, the actual work is not likely to begin before monsoon is over in September, he said. Meanwhile, UT adviser Manoj Parida also shared the news of resumption of road woks, and resident grabbed the opportunity to complain about broken roads in their areas.Twitter user Mridul (@Mridul_9140) told Parida that internal roads in Sector 29-B, near traffic police lines and govt model school, are in a pathetic state since last year. Another user Piyush Sharma (@PiyushS32539737) said the road in Sector 22-B, behind the mobile market, is in a poor condition since January. “No one has bothered to rebuild it after pipe-work done by Chandigarh MC,” he stated.Shivam Ahuja (@ShivamA26947751) sought MC’s intervention in Sector 23 where internal roads are dilapidated. Another user mentioned the appalling state of Daria-Makhan Majra Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-resumes-road-repair-priority-is-stalled-projects/story-7PaYE5JM8iDUvvL5FvlfsL.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Post relaxations, golf, tennis take lead in opening in Chandigarh tricity||Sports in the tri-city is stirring awake from a two-month hibernation imposed to contain Covid, with golf and tennis taking first tentative steps in offering players some hope of returning to normalcy.Chandigarh Golf Club was at the heart of activity today with as many as 160-170 golfers, wearing masks, teeing off and getting the first feel of the greens. The club saw stars including—Jeev Milkha Singh, Shubhankar Sharma and Karandeep Kochhar playing a round each.In tennis, Zirakpur-based Roots Tennis Academy opened its door to tournament groups and veteran players on Wednesday. Following safety procedures wherein only singles practice was held, and sanitising everything, including equipment, before entering and after leaving court, around 10 players had their first session in the morning at the academy.“Only two players per court are allowed. Players are required to wear masks and maintain social distancing. We had a three tournament group players (above 18 years) and five veteran players. We have marked individual balls to serve and play for both players,” said Gaurav Chadha, the owner and coach who also runs other centres in the tricity.Meanwhile, CGC also took all precaution for a safe round of golf, including masks and social distancing. “Today, we had full strength on the course, with all slots booked. Earlier, there used to be an eight-minute gap between two groups, but now we have increased the gap to 15 minutes for better social distancing,” says Sandeep Singh Sandhu (Bobby), CGC president. Sandhu added that all members have followed safety protocols. “Earlier, on busy day we had up to 500 golfers playing in a day, but now we will allow up to 170.” “It’s unusual to play while wearing a mask but let’s face reality and get used to it,” said Jeev, who teed off in an afternoon session.Many other sports discipline centres have opted to wait for standard operating procedures (SOP) from the government or sports department before they resume operations. Total Tennis Academy, which runs many centres in Chandigarh, including one in Sector-11 YMCA, have decided to wait and watch through the week.Chadha, however, was optimistic about having his centre up and running by June 1. “I am thinking of starting full sessions by June 1. With six courts, I could accommodate 12 players and have 2-3 sessions in a day. In between, we will sanitise the entire centre,” he added.Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association (CLTA) is hopeful of getting SOPs from both UT sports department and All India Tennis Association (AITA) and aspires to begin operating this weekend.“The management will take a look at the SOPs and we could have things in place by this weekend. Needless to say, but safety of trainees and staff is of utmost importance,” said Megh Raj, chief operating officer of CLTA.Meanwhile, PU sports director Parminder Singh said, “We are working on the modalities of how to resume sports activities. In coming days, we will release the SOP and gradually begin activities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/golf-tennis-take-lead-in-opening-others-await-more-clarity-sops-in-ut/story-SSqXoTiKjbwfODH4CjfadK.html
21-05-2020||City||Accused in Ludhiana murder case conspired to kill victim’s brother||A day after four men were held for shooting dead a mobile phone shop owner at his house in Janta Colony on Rahon Road on May 13, police investigation revealed that the accused had primarily conspired to kill the victim’s brother.The accused, Rajinder Manocha of Janta Colony (Girish’s uncle) and contract killers Manoj Kumar alias Monu of Chhawani Mohalla, Prabhjot Singh alias Ajay Libra of New Subash Nagar and Veerkaran Singh alias Karan of Chandarlok Colony, confessed that they were in an inebriated state when they fired shots at the victim Girish Manocha, 29, and his father Joginderpal Manocha, 60.Police said there was a dispute over ₹36 lakh between the families which led to the crime. Police said Joginderpal had given a house in Chhawni Mohalla and a car to Rajinder to settle the matter.The contract killers confessed that Rajinder used to call them over to his place and serve them alcohol while forcing them to kill Girish’s brother, Manish.A case under Sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered at the Basti Jodhewal police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/accused-in-ludhiana-murder-case-conspired-to-kill-victim-s-brother/story-SfdNXspSUHI1X4cFbWZzQN.html
21-05-2020||City||Mayor okays movement of vehicles on Ludhiana’s NH-44 flyover||Following a week-long trial run on both sides of the NH-44 flyover, situated near Mohan Dai Oswal Cancer Hospital, mayor Balkar Sandhu allowed movement of traffic on the bridge on Wednesday. The flyover is a part of the Jalandhar-Panipat highway project and has been hanging fire for around nine years.The mayor said that the Sherpur Chowk flyover is expected to be completed by May 30.He said a one side of the flyover, from Delhi to Jalandhar, has already been opened for movement of traffic and the construction work on the other side is expected to be completed by May 30. Rahul Verma, member of Road Safety Council, said the commuters coming from the Jalandhar side will not be able to move into the city through Sherpur Chowk and will have to exit from Tibba Road exit point. He said with the completion of this flyover, the traffic is expected to increase at Samrala Chowk as the truckers, who used to used to exit the highway from Moti Nagar point, will have to exit through Tibba Road point and move towards Transport Nagar through Samrala Chowk.“Traffic woes are expected increase at Samrala Chowk after the lockdown and the commuters coming from Jalandhar will have no exit point to enter the city at Sherpur Chowk. They will have to take a u-turn from Focal Point area. We are working to find some solution for these problems,” said Verma.The cancer hospital flyover project had to be completed by March 31, but it was stopped owing to the pandemic-induced lockdown. The construction work commenced amid the lockdown on April 23 after the administration gave the approval with the condition that the contractors and National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will have to follow the guidelines issued by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mayor-okays-movement-of-vehicles-on-both-sides-of-ludhiana-s-nh-44-flyover/story-QwQMwSyIiTS2JCJeNTXaBP.html
21-05-2020||City||Ludhiana Class-10 students receive only English books on Day 2 of book distribution||On the second day of book distribution among students of Classes 1 to 12 at various government schools across the district on Wednesday, most schools handed over only English textbooks to Class 10 students.The Punjab School Education Board’s depot in the city, which caters to the whole district, has received copies of only 23 textbooks out of the 110 textbooks for Classes 1 to 12. As per directions from the district education office, school principals started the distribution process from Tuesday amid the pandemic-induced lockdown.These books are provided free of cost to all students from Classes 1 to 8 and to those under reserved categories in Classes 9 and 10. The city school principals have stated that they received copies of one textbook for Classes 7, 10 and 12 and four textbooks of Class 9 and all textbooks of Class 6.PARENTS, STUDENTS TO MAKE MORE ROUNDSMeanwhile, parents and students said the schools should have started the distribution process only once they received all textbooks for all classes as they will have to make more rounds to collect all textbooks.Sushil Kumar, a parent, said, “My son studies in a government school and was handed over only one new book today. When I enquired, my 16-year-old son said the school received only one new textbook, so he has to visit the school again to get the rest of the books. The schools should have started the distribution process once they received all textbooks.”SOCIAL DISTANCING NORMS IN PLACEStudents have been asked to visit the school at an allotted time and adhere to social-distancing norms. Circles have been made in the school corridor and a peon has been deputed to make all students sanitise their hands before collecting books.MANY SCHOOLS DISTRIBUTE OLD TEXTBOOOKSMany government school heads gave old textbooks to the students from the book banks that they had set up in their school years ago. At Government Model Senior Secondary School, Cemetery Road, over 40 students of Class 10 were given new textbooks of English.At Government Senior Secondary Shool, Haibowal Khurd, the authorities have handed over new English textbooks and old books of other subjects to Class 10 students. Principal Kamaljit said, “I have deputed a staffer to make sure that all students and visitors sanitise their hands. We have received textbooks of Class 6 to 12 and we will hand these over to the students according to the prepared schedule. Many parents also accompanied their wards to school to collect books, so we made proper seating arrangements for them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-class-10-students-receive-only-english-books-on-day-2-of-book-distribution/story-uTghZWFRsJvoTmWGtnN7yO.html
21-05-2020||Delhi||Man uses poison, packed as corona medicine, in bid to get rival murdered||The ongoing Covid-19 pandemic gave a Delhi man who suspected his wife of having an affair with a home guard with an idea for doing away with his assumed rival -- poison packaged as coronavirus disease medicine. To put his plan into action, the 42-year-old man who lives in outer Delhi’s Alipur hired two women, who posed as health workers and, on Sunday, visted the home of the 38-year old home guard (the home guards is a volunteer-based paramilitary force that assists the police) and administered the medicine to him and three members of his family. All four took ill shortly after and had to be hospitalised. The police said the condition of the victims is stable. Investigators used CCTV camera footage to identify the two women, who, on questioning, directed them to the mastermind, according to Gaurav Sharma, the deputy commissioner of police (outer-north district). All three have been booked for attempt to murder and arrested.The prime suspect runs a business in Alipur. He suspected that his wife was having an affair with the home guard, who lives in the same area. “He wanted revenge. So, he hired two women from another village to kill the home guard. He asked them to pose as health workers and poison him on the pretext of offering him medicine,” Sharma said.On Sunday afternoon, the two women visited the home guard’s house and claimed to be health workets. They administered the medicine to the home guard and “his mother and their two relatives; the four began to feel unwell immediately and the two women slipped away,” he addedThe four victims were rushed to Raja Harishchandra Hospital where they were treated and are now out of danger, Sharma said. The police are yet to determine what poison was used in the crime.This is the second known case of Covid-19 being used as a tactic to commit a crime in Delhi. On May 1, a woman strangled her husband and tried to pass off his murder as a case of death by Covid-19, the police said.In that case, an autopsy helped bring the crime to light.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-uses-poison-packed-as-corona-medicine-in-bid-to-get-rival-murdered/story-2WFMo0Zr3MbTNYiOBUyuFM.html
21-05-2020||Delhi||Too early to resume Metro service, says Delhi High Court||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday declined to order the Centre or Delhi government to resume the Metro services in the Capital, remarking that it was “too early” to pass such a direction. It said it was satisfied with the transport arrangements made for now.Metro services were suspended from March 22, when the janta curfew was observed, and continued to be suspended since. In its latest guidelines, issued upon extending the lockdown till May 31, the ministry of home affairs did not allow resumption of Metro services.The Delhi HC order came while disposing of a plea filed by law student Shreesh Chadha through advocate Prashant Vaxish, seeking the resumption of all public transport while mandating social distancing norms and also sought directions to the government to frame guidelines for ensuring the safety of commuters.“It has been just two days since the new rules and regulations have come into force. It is too early in the day for learned counsel for the petitioner to urge that there is an inadequate supply of public transport for insisting that DMRC (Delhi Metro Rail Corporation) must be directed to operate the Metro Rail in Delhi immediately,” the bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad said, while adding that the Metro was a “lifeline” of the city.The counsel for the Delhi government told the court through video conferencing that transport services in the city had resumed. He gave the court an order issued by the city government on the resumption of the services of bus, autos and cab aggregators.However, Vaxish contended that there were only 2,500 buses, which was not enough as the order said that the number of passengers in each bus would be no more than 20 to maintaining social distance. The other buses, he said, were being used to ferry migrant workers and essential service providers. He sought a direction to the Delhi government to hire more private buses as they had done during the time of odd-even scheme to control air pollution.The Delhi government counsel said that there were adequate number of buses and pointed ouot that private and government offices have been told to allow their employees to work from home as much as possible. Similarly, all shops and market complexes were asked to open on an odd and even basis.“As of now, there is adequate public transport that has been permitted to be operated by the Government of NCT to meet the requirement of the public at large. As and when the lockdown is further relaxed, the DMRC shall also be permitted to operate the Metro Rail in terms of the directions that may be issued by the Centre and the Delhi government subsequently,” the court said.The court asked the DMRC to ensure that adequate steps are taken to maintain social distancing once the service is permitted.Appearing for the DMRC, its counsel, in an affidavit told the court that the ministry of urban development and housing affairs (MUDHA), formed detailed procedures in case the Metro services were to resume.The DMRC said that the commuters would be asked to sit or stand on alternative places to maintain social distancing, while stating that the dwell time at its stations would be increased to give time to the passengers to alight and board the train. The metro also said that all norms and guidelines issued by the Centre to maintain social distancing would be followed.The Delhi government and DMRC spokespersons refused to comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/too-early-to-resume-metro-service-says-delhi-high-court/story-w1OgMOpPMOFtO2A2lPTquM.html
21-05-2020||City||Delhi Police probing two case of fake UPI IDs in name of PM-Cares Fund||Delhi Police is probing two cyber fraud cases where fake Unified Payments Interface (UPI) IDs of the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM-Cares) Fund were created to dupe people into parting with money for donations to the fight against Covid-19.Delhi Police cyber cell investigators traced people behind the fraud to some areas in Jharkhand, including Jamtara, which has emerged as a hub of cyber frauds such as phishing in recent years.Cyber cell officials said that during an investigation they came across 80 fake UPI IDs that were created around the same time in March when Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the PM-Cares Fund.“All such fake UPI IDs, which looked similar to the original ID of PM-Cares Fund, were deactivated as soon they came to our notice, either during the investigation or flagged by other agencies. A majority of the scamsters have been traced to areas in Bihar and Jharkhand’s Jamtara, Hazaribagh,” said deputy commissioner of police (cyber cell) Anyesh Roy.The ongoing lockdown for the coronavirus disease outbreak and the fact that the racketeers are located in thickly forested areas where Maoist rebels are active have prompted investigators to delay sending in raiding teams to the areas. Senior officers said the operation may last more than a week and arranging logistics such as food and accommodation in the terrain would be difficult in the present circumstances.“We will soon be sending our teams to catch the suspects,” said DCP Roy.A senior police officer familiar with the developments said two brothers were arrested in Hazaribagh last month for being part of the racket that had duped people to the tune of around R52 lakh in the guise of donations to the PM-Cares Fund. The racket’s mastermind is still at large.“Our teams will also get in touch with the Hazaribagh police and if required, the two brothers will be questioned to ascertain if their gang created the fake UPI IDs that came to our notice..,” the officer said on condition of anonymity.The city police detected the first fake UPI ID on March 28, just a couple of hours after the Prime Minister announced its formation and called for donations to help fight the Covid-19 outbreak.DCP Roy said that around R47,000 was deposited in the fake UPI ID “Pmcare@sbi” by the time it was blocked and a case was registered. Within a week, the cyber cell officials came across another case wherein the screenshot of a fake UPI ID was uploaded on social media, urging people to donate to the fund.“We registered a separate case and both the cases were probed. The fraudsters in both the cases were traced to Bihar and Jharkhand,” he added.Last month, Maharashtra cyber police officials said racketeers were using fake links to dupe people in the name of online donations to the PM-Cares Fund and that 78 cases were registered for spreading misinformation online on the coronavirus outbreak. The officials asked the people to use the authentic link, which is pmcares@sbi, to donate funds to fight the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-police-probing-two-case-of-fake-upi-ids-in-name-of-pm-cares-fund/story-SwfE3AmsEIIzBScFRasKFK.html
21-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi mulls hiring private buses for public transport||Following reports of social distancing norms being flouted inside Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and cluster buses, and at bus stops, the state government is mulling to hire private buses on a contract basis to cater to the increasing demand.To ensure strict compliance of the number of passengers permitted in each vehicle, the government also tweaked its standard operating procedure (SoP) on Wednesday, to include a clause on initiating penal action against conductors, marshals, drivers and even passengers for non-compliance.Transport minister Kailash Gahlot said bus drivers, conductors and marshals have been strictly instructed not to admit more than 20 passengers per bus. “Extra passengers boarding the buses will be first requested to de-board. If any passenger refuses to de-board, a police complaint at 100 will be registered. If there is any violation of these instructions then stringent action will be taken against the driver, conductor, and marshal,” he said.Gahlot said his department is also considering hiring private buses to strengthen the public transport system, which is currently not able to cater to the demand, keeping restrictions in mind. The Delhi Metro, which used to ferry at least 2.7 million passengers a day, has been shut for more than 50 days now.A senior government official said that the initial report on the first two days of the relaxations under lockdown 4.0 in Delhi suggests that the number of people at the bus stops was much higher than the number that could be catered to by the services. “If things do not stabilise in a day or two, we will have to hire private buses like the government did during the odd-even road rationing drive. The government would pay the private bus operators at a decided per-kilometre rate. It would be beneficial for them as well, because they are currently suffering heavy losses as their buses are currently lying idle,” said the official, on condition of anonymity.Around 2,000 DTC and cluster buses of the city’s fleet of 6,487 buses have been deployed for public transport. Over 1,400 DTC buses have been deployed on Covid-19 duty, for transportation of migrant workers and for maintaining law and order in the city. Despite the high demand, the buses could ferry only about 1 lakh passengers on the first day, due to the restrictions. Usually, Delhi’s state-run buses ferry at least 40 people per bus, with a daily average ridership of over 3.2 million pre-Covid. The transport minister called for that public cooperation, in wearing masks and practising social distancing. “The people must ensure that they will not violate the rules in autos, buses or bikes. If such a violation takes place, action will be taken,” Gahlot said. He said that more cluster buses were on the roads on Wednesday, as drivers staying in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana reached Delhi a night before, to report to work. As per the revised SoP for public transport, wearing masks is mandatory, but downloading the Aarogya Setu App is not compulsory. Sanitisers will be made available on every bus and after completion of each trip, it will be the responsibility of the conductor or the marshal to sanitise the seats and common points of contact. For para-transit vehicles such as autos, e-rickshaws and gramin sewas, the driver will have to carry a disinfectant solution and clean the seats and contact areas after dropping each passenger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-mulls-hiring-private-buses-for-public-transport/story-YdsSA8nvIynTmbMiuLZdcO.html
21-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt asks Centre for 262 more trains to send over 400,000 back home||The Capital has kick-started a major repatriation exercise for stranded migrant workers, students, pilgrims, tourists and others. While around 87,600 individuals left the city in 73 special trains and around as many buses between May 7 and Wednesday, nearly 410,000 individuals are still waiting to go home, government records showed.“Currently, there are 410,000 applicants from states that include Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Odisha and Tamil Nadu. Around 380,700 of them are from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh,” an advisor at the Delhi chief minister’s office (CMO) said, asking not to be identified.“We have urged the Central government to allot us 262 trains in four days to expedite the repatriation. We have sent them details. Today, 25 Shramik Special Trains left Delhi with around 37,500 migrants for different parts of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar,” deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said.A spokesperson for the railways ministry declined to comment on the status of the application for the 262 trains sent by the Delhi government, which is routed through the Union home ministry. However, a senior railways official said that details about such a request could not be shared because people might start thronging railway stations in the hope of being able to get transport back home.On April 29, the Union home ministry issued guidelines for the interstate movement of stranded individuals, following which the Delhi government distributed forms in its 400-odd centres, where around 20,000 stranded migrant workers had taken shelter since March 25 when the nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19 was implemented. “Most of them have left Delhi by now,” a government official said.On May 7, the first Shramik Special Train left Delhi for Chhatarpur in Madhya Pradesh with 1,050 passengers—all of them were lodged in several government centres, officials said.By then, the Delhi government had also set up a website through which stranded individuals, who had not taken shelters in the government-run centres, and instead stayed in factories, construction sites or shared rooms with other labourers in the vicinity of industrial areas, could apply for repatriation.Till Wednesday evening, as many as 73 Shramik Special trains have left Delhi, with the highest number heading to Uttar Pradesh (34), followed by Bihar (27), Madhya Pradesh (three), Jammu & Kashmir (two), Jharkhand (two), and Chhattisgarh (one), Karnataka (one), Kerala (one), Maharashtra (one) and West Bengal (one), data shared by Northern Railways showed.Interestingly, some of the longest journeys were arranged through buses—three buses for Assam (2,050km), one each for Manipur (2,400km) and Arunachal Pradesh (2,550km). “In these cases, the buses were arranged by the governments or NGOs in the respective home states. The number of applicants from these states is also relatively low,” the government official quoted earlier said.Buses have also left for Ladakh, Haryana and Punjab, government records showed.According to government officials, all passengers are screened before boarding buses which take them to the railway station from the screening centres. The consent of destination states is not required for running Shramik Special Trains to ferry migrant workers, the ministry of railways said Tuesday, revising its earlier order wherein it was mandatory for both states to mutually agree to run the trains. This comes after the home ministry issued a fresh set of guidelines to run the Shramik Special Trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-asks-centre-for-262-more-trains-to-send-over-400-000-back-home/story-GQC60vayVHyw0ioU6inmZJ.html
21-05-2020||Gurugram||Industrial activity in Udyog Vihar hit as workers unable to cross border||Despite the relaxations allowed by the government under the fourth phase of the lockdown, industrial activity in Udyog Vihar has not resumed as many industry owners and employees in these units do not have movement passes to enter the city from Delhi.Industrialists in Udyog Vihar said that they have applied for 60 to 70 weekly passes; mostly for owners living in Delhi, whose movement has been restricted due to strict measures at the border. The industry owners also said that a large majority of labourers working in Udyog Vihar stay across the border in Delhi villages, such as Kapashera and Samalkha, and due to curbs on interstate movement, the resumption of the industry has been affected.“There is an immediate need to issue weekly passes so that owners and senior officials can resume work. We are also ready to relocate workers from Kapashera and provide them with lodging facilities in our own units or community spaces in Udyog Vihar or nearby areas so that production can restart. Without workers, it is not possible to resume work in factories and the government must consider this option,” Ashok Kohli, president, Chamber of Industries, Udyog Vihar, said.Kohli also said that the association submitted around 60 to 70 names to the district industries department for the issue of weekly passes by the district administration as these unit owners have to travel to Udyog Vihar from Delhi. “We had submitted these names to the authorities around 10 days ago but no action has been taken in this regard despite repeated pleas,” he said.A garment exporter in Udyog Vihar said that almost 70% of their labourers stayed in Samalkha and Kapashera, and since these workers were not able to enter the city, work is badly affected. “The manufacturing units in Udyog Vihar can’t execute orders because the labour is not available,” Satyendra Singh, general manager, East West Exports, said.The industrialists said that identity cards should be considered valid documents for entry to the city.A senior official of the department of industries said that movement passes are not a matter of right but are being issued based on merit. “Everything is being done to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease but a number relaxations have been given to industry and commercial units in the state under Lockdown 4.0,” he said on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/industrial-activity-in-udyog-vihar-hit-as-workers-unable-to-cross-border/story-wQ2ve8kcrHq4o40GtcUf3L.html
21-05-2020||City||Desperate to get home, migrants mortgage their plots for loans||New Delhi: Desperate to get home and exasperated by what seems like an unending wait to register for a Shramik Special train, around 250 workers in Shahpur Jat have spent every last penny they had, and beyond, to hire private buses for their journeys. With private agencies charging upwards of Rs 4,000 per adult for a seat on a bus to West Bengal, Jharkhand, or Bihar, some workers had to get loans, while others had to mortgage their assets to be able to afford the trip. If one person fell short, another pitched in however possible.According to migrants in the south Delhi area, between Sunday night and early Monday morning, around 250 workers left in six buses. All of them were employed in embroidering work at Shahpur Jat, which houses a number of upmarket clothing stores. But since the lockdown, there has been no work, and their scant savings have run out.Each bus seated between 70 and 75 people, and none of the passengers were issued medical screening certificates, throwing the guidelines for inter-state travel to the wind. Hamidul Manjhi, who left for his village in West Bengal’s Paschim Medinipur district on Monday morning, had only reached Jharkhand on Wednesday noon. “We had to leave as we had run out of money here and there was no way to survive any longer. My two brothers in the village took a loan of around Rs 25,000 from a moneylender that they transferred so we could afford the bus tickets. My father is bed-ridden and my mother recently had a paralysis attack. My brothers said she might die any time, and we must reach before it’s too late,” Manjhi, 35, said on a phone call. He is travelling with his wife, two children, brother, sister-in-law and their two children. They had to pay Rs 4,250 each for five persons, including his 11-year-old son.The family of one of his co-workers at Shahpur Jat, Mafizul, had to mortgage a plot to send him money. “My parents are very worried, because they have nobody to take care of them. This is the harvest time, and I was supposed to be home. I ran out of money here,” said Mafizul, who is also travelling to Paschim Medinipur with his wife and three children.As per the Centre’s norms, private buses ferrying migrants are allowed to move within the city and across borders only with valid inter-state transit passes issued by the district authorities. The passes are issued only after passengers are screened and the destination state permits the travel. A 50-seater bus is allowed to have only 25 passengers to maintain social distancing. Drivers are required to disinfect the buses before and after a trip.However, the district authorities and police denied having issued any such permission for these buses to leave Shahpur Jat. BM Mishra, district magistrate (south) said, “We have not issued any permission for private buses to ferry migrants. If that is the case, enforcement agencies at the city’s borders must look into it. We are in the process of issuing permission for only one group that has hired a private bus for West Bengal. Their screening is being done and information is being shared with the state authorities for the same. Only after the process is complete, will they be allowed to board the bus.”Riyaz Hussain, one of the workers, said people had given up hope and were desperate to leave. There are around 5,000 embroidery workers in the area, of whom around 500 have left, according to many of their colleagues. “Many buses have left without permission. We have applied for permission for 31 workers for West Bengal. Many of them gave up their last bit of money, which they had saved to send home. The total fare for one 50-seater private bus is Rs 1.2 lakh. We asked some NGOs to help, and others have asked their families to send money.”A senior police official who asked not to be named, said, “Around four private buses have left with migrants from the area. They had passes issued by two other districts.” However, east Delhi district magistrate Arun Mishra denied having issued any such pass. “The pass must be forged,” Mishra said. Despite attempts, the Shahdara district magistrate did not respond to requests for comment. In a similar case, the southeast district police on Monday night registered an FIR against a private tourist bus driver and its owner for ferrying 49 migrants to Bihar using a fake transit pass. “The bus driver and owner have been arrested. The bus was traced around 11.45 pm at Tughlaqabad Extension carrying 49 passengers, breaching the norms. He had shown a fake pass and the list of passengers was not shared with the homestate either. It was found that the migrants belong to the Tughlaqabad area and were sent back,” said a senior police official, who did not wish to be named.Sunil Kumar Aledia, a social activist, who works for the homeless, said that a number of private buses have already left with migrants, who were forced to shell out whatever they had, as there was no other option left. “The government must arrange for more buses for a large number of people who are still stranded and ensure medical screening is done. It is taking too long for people to even register or get an assurance from the state authorities,” said Aledia||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/desperate-to-get-home-migrants-mortgage-their-plots-for-loans-to-get-home/story-aMdJHLhB6dcDofuVMp1nBN.html
21-05-2020||Gurugram||Hour-long checking drive leads to massive snarl at Sirhaul Toll Plaza||Thousands of commuters travelling between Gurugram and Delhi were stuck in a jam near Sirhaul toll plaza on the expressway on Wednesday morning after Gurugram police put up barricades to stop and check every vehicle for movement passes. Traffic came to a standstill between 8.45am and 9.45am as commuters tried to get to office after relaxations were announced in the fourth phase of the lockdown that started Monday. The traffic backlog stretched till Shankar Chowk flyover, about a kilometre away, commuters said. The situation normalised only around 10 am when Gurugram police stopped checking every vehicle and instead resorted to random checking. Gurugram police officials said around 8:30 am, during random checking, they found a lot of commuters attempting to cross the border without valid passes. They then decided to check all vehicles crossing into Delhi that led to a jam.Police commissioner Muhammad Akil said that only health workers and others who have valid passes issued by the district administration through the SARAL portal will be allowed to cross the border. “Our deployment at all borders remains the same and there is no change. Although most of the vehicles crossing the border on Wednesday had valid permissions, there were a few which were trying to sneak through. As a precautionary measure, our teams started checking passes of all vehicles during the early morning hours when the maximum number of people head to Delhi. This resulted in minor congestion and we subsequently switched back to random checking,” said Akil.Manmeet Kumar, a resident of Palm Drive on Golf Course Extension Road, said that she had to wait at the border for nearly half an hour on Wednesday morning . “All the lanes leading to Delhi had been barricaded and Gurugram police were allowing entry of vehicles one at a time, which resulted in heavy congestion on the expressway. I was stuck at the border for more than 30 minutes and was finally able to pass by 9.15am,” said Kumar.Vardhaan Agarwal, a resident of DLF 5, said that the backlog of vehicles had started stretching till the Shankar Chowk flyover and he was only able to make his way into Delhi when Gurugram police removed all the barricades and started allowing vehicles to pass through.“In 45 minutes, I must have travelled only around 500 metres. I thought I would be stuck for nearly two hours at the border. But, around 9.30 am, Gurugram police suddenly removed all barricades and started allowing most vehicles to pass through and stopped only a handful. I was able to cross over in the next fifteen minutes,” said Agarwal.After 11 am, the movement of vehicles largely remained unaffected, several commuters stating that they even made their way into Delhi and back, without any checking on both sides.“I had applied for passes on the Saral portal, three days ago but did not get any reply. I had an emergency meeting at my office in Dwarka in Delhi and decided to take a chance. Luckily, while entering Delhi and on my way back into Gurugram no one stopped me to check for a pass,” said Sandeep Kumar, resident of Block E, DLF Phase 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hour-long-checking-drive-leads-to-massive-snarl-at-sirhaul-toll-plaza/story-68pBchoQ3eLkGbJKvZbEbM.html
21-05-2020||Delhi||Workers turned away from screening centres despite reservation messages||There was chaos outside the screening centres set up at two government schools in east Delhi and one in South on Wednesday after hundreds of Bihar-bound migrant workers reached these places to get themselves screened in order to board Shramik Special trains. Although all of them had reached there after receiving a text message confirming their reservations,many of them were turned back by officials who said the trains were full and their names were not on the list.At a school in east Delhi’s Vinod Nagar, the long queue of migrant workers continued till evening. While some of them were waiting for their turn since last night, many had reached there as early as 4am Wednesday. Displaying a confirmation message received on his phone last night, Navi Hasan, who was working in a garment factory in Gandhingar, said he left home at 1am. “I was waiting for this message for the past 10 days. I had no money to pay the rent and so I vacated the room and left for the screening centre immediately on receiving the message last light. I had to walk till here since I could not afford an auto-rickshaw. Now, they are asking me to return tomorrow. Where will I go for the night?” he said.Shramik Special trains are being run to take migrant workers back to their home states under a special arrangement between state governments, according to the Union home ministry guidelines issued on April 29. The Union government bears 85% cost of travel, while the states foot the remaining 15%. Migrants have to apply online for a seat on these trains and they would then receive a confirmation message asking them to report to the screening centres from where the DTC buses will drop them to the Old Delhi railway station. The migrants can also apply offline with the help of government help desks set up at shelter homes and subdivisional magistrate offices. On Wednesday, many like Hasan queued up outside the schools with messages of reservation for trains to Darbhanga, Patna, Bhagalpur, Muzaffarpur and Saharsa. The messages were received between 12.55am and 2am Wednesday. “Your journey has been scheduled for May 20. The train will stop at BKM and buses will be provided for other districts near these stations. Food and other arrangements have been made. You are requested to come for screening on May 20 at 8am with your family and luggage,” read one of these messages.Sitting on a pavement outside the school with her five-month-old son, an angry Ramvati Devi said, “Why did they send us a message if we were not supposed to leave today? No one considers us humans. My son is sick and we had come to Delhi for his treatment when the lockdown was announced. We have been staying at a relative’s place since then. Now they are also out of money. Where do we go now?” For Arjun Sade, 25, who had walked from Haryana’s Panipat to Delhi to board a Shramik Special train to his village in Bihar’s Khagaria city, the journey seems never-ending. “I had applied for the train on Sunday and started walking from Panipat to Delhi. It took me two days to reach Delhi. Last night, when I was at Anand Vihar bus stand, I received this message and again I started walking towards the screening centre in Lajpat Nagar. Now, after standing outside this school for more than eight hours, officials are saying I can’t go home today. The battery of my phone is discharged. I don’t know how will I charge it to show them the message again,” he said.A senior police officer in east Delhi, requesting anonymity, said, “There was some confusion on the part of the district administration as people had gathered in large numbers but names of only a few were on the administration’s list. However, police were not informed about any law and order problem.”Arun Mishra, district Magistrate, east Delhi, said the administration did not send messages beyond the train capacity. “Many people gathered there showing forwarded messages. We have not issued so many messages. We do not know how so many people gathered there,” he said.Southeast DM Harleen Kaur said the SMSes was sent to the appropriate number of passengers but many people get more persons as companions. “They will be taken to a shelter home in the district and will be given priority on Thursday’s train,” she said.A Delhi government spokesperson said they have also got to know about a large number of people gathering outside the screening centres. “There is a possibility that many people have reached there with forwarded messages. We are looking into the matter,” the spokesperson said. Back at the Vinod Nagar school, many stranded migrants were allowed inside by 7pm. “After standing in the heat for the whole day, now they have asked us to come in. My friends and I have requested them to drop us anywhere in Bihar and we will walk to our villages from there. Our families are waiting for us,” Harish Gautam, who worked as a labourer in Bhojpuri, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/chaos-outside-screening-centres-as-migrants-gather-in-large-numbers-to-go-on-a-train-to-bihar/story-UPQLAFEqirhGjnEQoaIEaP.html
21-05-2020||City||Accidents between Delhi, UP killed 28 migrant workers in 1 month||At least 32 accidents involving speeding vehicles hitting migrant labourers returning to their homes from the national capital to Uttar Pradesh alone left 28 people dead from April 15 to May 15, according to Delhi traffic police and National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) data.The Delhi traffic police’s control room received 12 calls about such accidents while NHAI’s highway patrolling teams recorded 20 such mishaps even as some of them were not fatal.“The number of migrant workers that have met with accidents while walking back home could be higher. These are just those that have come to the notice of our patrolling teams,” said an NHAI official on the condition of anonymity. The official said the migrant workers are at a greater risk of being hit by speeding vehicles along dimly-lit highways. Officials said NHAI has increased the presence of its patrolling teams along these routes to ensure accidents are prevented as the pedestrian movement has increased. Many workers prefer to walk or cycle after sundown as the mercury has begun to hover over 40 degrees Celsius. Some of them tend to sleep without realising the risks of speeding vehicles. “In Delhi, our PCR [police control room] vehicles are doing rounds of the city through the night and anyone found sleeping on roadsides and at risk is taken to shelter homes to ensure their safety,” said Delhi police spokesman MS Randhawa.Migrant workers left jobless by the lockdown imposed in late March to check the Covid-19 spread have continued walking and cycling back to their homes from big cities like Delhi even as buses in late April and special trains have been arranged for them since May 1. Some workers have been unable to get tickets for these trains since they do not have identity documents while several states have also been unable to arrange enough trains to take them home. Scores of home-bound migrant workers have died in accidents across the country.The Delhi traffic police said a migrant worker died a day after a speeding car hit two migrants cycling back to their homes along the Delhi-Meerut expressway near Delhi’s Commonwealth Games Village on May 2. A 26-year-old worker was injured in a similar incident on April 28 near Patparganj. At least two accidents have been reported from highways in Uttar Pradesh after May 15. Around 24 migrant workers trying to return home were killed when two lorries crashed into each other in Uttar Pradesh’s Auraiya district on Saturday.Three women were killed and a dozen were injured on Monday when a truck carrying 17 migrant workers, who had walked from Delhi to Harpalpur and then boarded this vehicle, overturned along the Jhansi-Mirzapur highway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/accidents-between-delhi-up-killed-28-migrant-workers-in-1-month/story-Ci4qfCuwBOVJLrrnT2MqBL.html
21-05-2020||Noida||Migrants from states other than Bihar and UP lose hope of going home||Sita Koshley and her father Sukhchain Koshley, part of a group of around 22 labourers from Mungeli, Chhattisgarh, have never felt so betrayed in their lives. Fetched by a contractor in February to work at a construction site in Delhi, the group decided to walk back home after their rations got over in the days following the lockdown announcement. The man who lured them to Delhi for a daily wage of ₹350 per person had fled without paying them.The group, like many others, were stopped at the Delhi-Noida border and the police brought them to the Sector 19 shelter home on May 16, where after were asked to wait for their turn to go home.“We had been waiting for the past four days and whenever we ask officials when our turn will come, they tell us to wait. We requested them to allow us to walk back home. Yes, we get food here, and a place to sleep, but after all that has happened to us, we simply want to go back home,” Sita said. Like the rest of her group, she used to work at a construction site called ‘Janpath hotel’ and the contractor had fled without paying them. They had no choice but to walk back home.The migrants in the group said they received an allowance of ₹1,000 each in March and till April, they also received weekly rations.However, after that the man who brought them to Delhi fled and they were left with no food or supplies.“The contractor, Ashok Patel, got us here saying the wages would be good, and so we came. When we asked for our complete wages, he said if he gave us that all the money, we might lose it. Ultimately, he stopped coming to our shanties at the site after the lockdown was extended. We know we will never get our pending wages, but at least let us go home,” Sukhchain said.While the district administration has arranged transport for a number of migrant workers of Bihar and eastern Uttar Pradesh, arrangements for other states are still unclear. While the city saw around 84,000 registrations for Shramik Special trains, more migrants continued to reach Noida from Delhi and elsewhere.Several people from Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Jharkhand who attempted to walk home from Delhi and elsewhere, were stopped at the Delhi-UP border and brought to different shelter homes in Noida.Rajmani Patel, along with his friends, Aman Patel and Himanshu Joshi who hail from Rewa in Madhya Pradesh were also stopped on the Delhi-Noida Expressway after walking from Zirakhour, Mohali district, Punjab. “We used to work at an e-commerce platform that sold clothes and accessories. Since online shopping stopped and ours’ was a commission-based earning, we had nothing to do but to leave. The landlord was also pressuring us to leave. We walked till Noida, but are now stuck with nothing but abuses from police and khichdi to eat for the past three days,” Rajmani said. “We understand that those from Bihar and UP are being given preference, so we requested officials to sent us till Prayagraj, from where we can take a taxi to Rewa. But they didn’t agree to that either,’ said Himanshu Joshi.Jasmatiya Devi, Satnarayan Bhagat and Kalicharan Narua from a village in Lohardaga district in Jharkhand were among hundreds living at the congested Noida authority’s shelter home. Workers at a steel workshop at Nangloi, Delhi, these migrants decided to walk to home from Delhi, but were bought to the shelter home and asked to wait.“Our maalik (shop owner) did not pay us a single penny, nor did he give us ration. They don’t care if we live or die. All our savings were coming to an end and the meals being distributed at the schools by government were not enough. What other option did we had other than walking?” Bhagat said.According to officials, the administration is working on arranging transport for the migrants other than Bihar and UP as well.“We are reviewing the situation, and registrations are also being received online from the workers who are from Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and elsewhere. We are working on arranging transport from them very soon,” MN Upadhyay, additional divisional magistrate (finance), Gautam Budh Nagar, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/migrants-from-states-other-than-bihar-and-up-lose-hope-of-going-home/story-bVVKTev9GOrajofo4UYpEL.html
21-05-2020||Noida||BJP-Congress lock horns on sending migrants home, 4 Cong leaders booked||Noida police on Wednesday said it has filed FIRs against four Congress leaders and several unknown people for unlawful assembly and not wearing masks under Sections 144, 188, 269 and 270 of Indian Penal Code. Police said Congress’ Uttar Pradesh general secretary Virendra Singh Guddu, state vice-president Pankaj Malik, Noida city’s president Mohammad Shahbuddin, Delhi state Congress president Anil Chaudhary, along with several other workers, have been booked for not wearing masks and engaging in unlawful assembly near Noida-Delhi border’s Kalindi Kunj Barrage site. Congress leaders, however, said that they were booked when they were arranging buses for poor migrant workers, who are forced to walk to their respective hometowns, risking everything. “The accused were found breaking the law, violating section 144 and other sections imposed by Gautam Budh Nagar administration in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. We cannot allow lawlessness and violation of law like that as it can be a threat to peace in the area,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police.Miffed with police action Congress workers later staged a brief protest against the UP government in front of Sector 19 Noida city magistrate’s office, where they shouted slogans against the police.“Congress party and our senior leader Priyanka Gandhi’s intention is to help the migrant workers, who are walking to their hometowns because the Bharatiya Janata Party government in the state is not providing them adequate transport facilities. We have requested the UP government to put BJP’s flag above buses if they so want but to let the migrants use them because we cannot allow migrants to risk everything like this. The BJP must forget political differences ,” said Virendra Singh Guddu UP Congress general secretary.The BJP, however, rebutted the allegations made by Congress workers.“All allegations of Congress are false and politically motivated with regard to action against them and on providing buses. Congress does not want to help needy. They only want to milk political gains in the name of helping migrants. This is very sad and they should stop this immediately,” said Dhirendra Singh BJP MLA from Jewar and senior BJP leader.The Uttar Pradesh government however said that had chalked out a detailed plan and were in the process of sending migrants back to their home towns safely via trains and buses.“We have sent 52,000 migrants, including students and workers, back to their hometowns so far via trains. We allow them to register on our helpline and then send them the next day. This work will continue until all the migrants are sent, home” said Narendra Bhooshan, nodal officer of the operation to send migrants in Delhi to UP cities. Similarly the Gautam Budh Nagar administration is also sending migrants to Eastern UP cities via buses and trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/bjp-congress-lock-horns-on-sending-migrants-home-4-cong-leaders-booked/story-av5KeLBOcp3dORBOuYni7M.html
21-05-2020||City||Mohali launches helpline for providing psychological support to people in isolation||The district administration in collaboration with the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has launched a helpline for providing counselling and psychological support to the people in isolation and quarantine.Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said the main aim of the initiative was to ensure that the people shared their emotions such as anxiety, depression and sadness with the leading doctors and field experts.Leading doctors such as Dr BK Waraich, Dr Harjeet Singh, Dr Devinder Pal Singh, Dr Satinder Kaur Cheema, Dr Komaldeep Kaur, Dr Prannav Gulati, Dr Sunil Sharma and Dr Manisha Gopal are available on helpline numbers 0172-3509784 and 0172-3509783 between 10am and 5pm from Monday to Sunday.Dayalan said people living in isolation or quarantine requiring emergency medical aid will be provided the same through local health workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-launches-helpline-for-providing-psychological-support-to-people-in-isolation/story-AogWjTwlAMHHnximB6DIvL.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Covid outbreak in Bapu Dham Colony shows utter failure of Chandigarh administration, says BJP councillor||While Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) city chief Arun Sood defended the UT administration’s performance in containing the spread of the coronavirus, his fellow party man and BJP councilor from Bapu Dham, Dalip Sharma, on Wednesday criticised the administration’s handling of the spread in his constituency.Bapu Dham Colony has become the epicenter of the pandemic in the city with 131 cases so far.“Since the first case returned positive on April 24, the administration failed to take appropriate steps in controlling the spread. Every family where the case was reported should have been put in an institutional quarantine. But they waited for other family members and then neighbours to get infected,” said Sharma.“There are government schools where these families can be isolated so that their neighbours or other people in the locality are not infected. The administration should also step up testing here,” added Sharma.Expressing surprise at Sharma’s outburst, Sood said, “Earlier Sharma has been consistently expressing satisfaction at the performance of local administration including the SDM concerned.”“Even if there are any loopholes in the administration’s handling of the situation, these are unintentional. If the administration has followed all the central guidelines then its okay. It has successfully limited the covid-19 spread to particularly localities rather than the entire city,” Sood added.But he backed Sharma on keeping people under institutional quarantine.Former BJP MP and member of the BJP national executive committee Satya Pal Jain came out in support of Sharma. Jain urged the administration to take the local councilor into confidence while formulating schemes about the Bapu Dham Colony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/situation-in-bapu-dham-colony-shows-utter-failure-of-chandigarh-administration-says-bjp-councillor/story-ed9zByy2vkKjCtm6tWXdJK.html
21-05-2020||City||Ludhiana: Committee formed to look into arhtiyas’ demand of opening city mandi for six days a week||Ludhiana deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal has formed a three-member committee to look into the arhtiyas’ (commission agents) demand of opening the city sabzi mandi six days a week. The move comes after market committee officials approached DC Agrawal on Wednesday. The committee members include sub-divisional magistrate (SDM, west) Amrinder Singh Malhi, additional deputy commissioner of police-1 (ADCP) Gurpreet Singh Sikand and district mandi officer (DMO) Jaswinder Dhaliwal. DC Agrawal said, “The committee members will look into the demands and submit a plan, detailing the measures to be taken for managing gathering in the mandi.” Following the complaints of crowding at the sabzi mandi near Jalandhar bypass, the administration had, on April 3, restricted the sale of vegetables and fruits in the mandi to three days—Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. Only listed suppliers, who sell vegetables to street vendors in the city’s 95 wards, were issued passes to enter the market.Ruing losses due to decline in sales, the arhtiyas have demanded that the mandi be opened for six days a week. They also demanded that customers, other than vendors, should also be allowed in the mandi. Ludhiana Sabzi Mandi Arhtiya Association president Gurkamal Singh said that arhtiyas have been facing losses as vendors listed with the market committee purchase vegetables only from a select arhtiyas, as they illegally buy vegetables from other markets situated outside the city. “Arhtiyas also face losses as perishable items rot due to a gap of a day. They are ready to take all required precautions, but the administration should open the mandi for six days a week,” added Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-committee-formed-to-look-into-arhtiyas-demand-of-opening-of-mandi-six-days-in-week/story-9IiYl36InH3zb4ErijW9EP.html
21-05-2020||Pune||PCMC out of red zone, decision on new guidelines by May 22||The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has been excluded as a red zone by the government of Maharashtra, for the fourth phase of the lockdown.PCMC has reported seven deaths and 242 Covid-19 (coronavirus) positive cases as of May 20.“The new guidelines will come into effect from May 22 and will continue until May 31, though the details are still being worked out,” said Shravan Hardikar, PCMC commissioner, adding, “We are still figuring out on how to execute the order. There could be certain restrictions which we will announce after consulting with the government.”He further added that shops will be open for business, but there will be restrictions in the market areas.“It will all depend upon how people behave and follow the government guidelines. We are giving a slight liberty to the people in PCMC, for they followed the earlier restrictions well, but that does not mean the Coronavirus is gone. If there is even an increase in the cases again, we will have to rethink the freedom offered. We will have to be vigilant , follow social distancing and have stringent hand hygiene to keep the twin cities free of further cases,” Hardikar said.Last week, PCMC allowed for 33 per cent of employees of each company in the urban township to return to work.“We intend to extend it a bit, but only with the concurrence of the government. There is still a ban on travel from a red zone and we are thinking of allowing limited public transport if things go well; but the night curfew will continue and essential goods supply will also continue, but restaurants, malls, salons, schools and colleges will remain closed.”Meanwhile, no housemaids are allowed in housing societies in the PCMC area, as most live in containment zones. “Definitely there will be a rethink on May 31. What we plan is that every resident will be responsible for their maid and we are going to ask every resident to fetch the maid from the gate after proper sanitisation and again drop them at the gate after work, so that contact tracing can be done in case something untoward happens,” said Kiran Wadgma, Palash Society, Wakad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pcmc-out-of-red-zone-decision-on-new-guidelines-by-may-22/story-kcxwmKMPpxXpYLeZZVVQlJ.html
21-05-2020||Pune||Live-in partner kills woman in Bhosari||Pimpri Chinchwad police on Wednesday arrested a man for the alleged murder of his live-in partner.The arrested was identified as Mahesh Malhari Khandale, 28, while the deceased was identified as Nikalje, 22, both living in a house in Kasarwadi.The woman had left her husband a few months ago and living with Khandale. The two had agreed to get married, according to the police. However, while Khandale wanted the marriage to take place soon, the deceased was not ready, leading to regular fights between the two. Their fight on Tuesday night turned violent and the woman was allegedly strangled to death by the accused.The police claim that he tried to make it look like a suicide to mislead the police. However, on grilling the accused, he confessed to the crime and was arrested, according to senior inspector Shankar Awtade of Bhosari police station.A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Bhosari police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/live-in-partner-kills-woman-in-bhosari/story-3pMOKHjhxx3RUWpwjY5Q3O.html
21-05-2020||Pune||DES in Pune to commence online lectures in the upcoming academic year||The Deccan education society (DES) has announced that all its colleges will be ready for online lectures and other activities from the beginning of the upcoming academic year in response to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.According to DES, the lectures will be delivered with the help of licensed copies of Microsoft purchased by DES for more than 33,000 students and for all the teachers. Sharad Kunte, president of DES, Dhananjay Kulkarni, secretary, and advocate, Nitin Apte, chairman of LMC, DES Navalmal Firodia law college and Rohini Honap, principal, DES Navalmal Firodia law college announced the changes in an online media briefing.“We will go ahead as per the directives which we receive from the state government, affiliating universities and university grant commission. But as DES, we are preparing ourselves, with Navalmal Firodia law college starting their online lectures from May 21, 2020,” Kunte said.He further clarified that online lectures which are presently being conducted for class 10 and class 12 at various schools and colleges of DES will continue even in the next academic year, following the directives from the education department of the government of Maharashtra. These will be done through various audio-video tools, teachers of DES will keep themselves connected with the students and parents to boost the morale of the students.They will guide the students so as to strengthen their bondage with their family members, to keep good physical, mental and emotional health of the students and to remain connected with their academics.The 10 research papers are prepared by the teaching faculties at IMDR related to the effect of Covid-19 in different areas - cost and quality, capabilities of Indian manufacturing, lifestyle impact, the impact of Covid-19 on working of organizations, shifting to virtual working using technology platforms, the study of HR innovative practices during the Covid-19 crisis, a study of changes in individual saving and spending behavior as a result of Covid-19 situation, impact of Covid-19 across industry sectors, an exploratory study impact of Covid-19 on advertising and promotion strategies and methods.The Firodia law college has also initiated a virtual classroom for undergraduate and graduate courses through MS Teams application. DES is committed to creating knowledge orientated individuals who continue to study despite the examination being canceled, Kunte added.During the lockdown, teachers will shoulder prime responsibilities like regular teaching, providing a variety of learning aids like notes, presentations, tutorials, online submission of assignments and conducting online examinations.Apart from academics, Club Aesthetica has provided a virtual platform for the artistic instincts of students. Theatrescape, a theatrical dialogue with Suraj Parasnis, a renowned actor and director was the first online endeavor. The club is planning many other such events in the upcoming week.The certificate course of soft skill development is also continued using the Webex application. The legal history club is also active through online submission of synopsis and questionnaires. The legal research cell has motivated students to analyse this unprecedented pandemic in multiple perspectives so as to compile a list of possible future amendments in existing laws.The college is organising a webinar on career guidance in association with the sister institution, IMDR. Every channel of the system is geared up for the commencement of the lectures for the next academic year. This venture of imparting uninterrupted education is possible due to the integrated efforts of the management, teachers, technical staff , and our enthusiastic students. Working for excellence has always been the unique feature of DES and this is a quality addition to quarantine. This pack of virtual curricular and co-curricular activities will definitely be proven as a golden page in the history of the DES.The DES is conducting various curricular and co-curricular activities for the students, activities for their physical and mental health, activities to teach family values and awareness program about Covid-19 on an online basis. These are helpful to parents who are appreciating all the activities and are actively participating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/des-to-commence-online-lectures-in-the-upcoming-academic-year/story-d2D59JvIjLEDTBslfUmYBP.html
21-05-2020||Pune||86,590 stranded labourers in Pune reach home via 63 special Shramik trains||PUNE In a bid to help the stranded labourers to travel back to their hometowns, the Pune railway division has till now run 63 special Shramik Trains from Pune, Satara, Miraj and Kolhapur railway stations. While more than 86,590 stranded labourers have travelled through these trains to various parts of the country, according to Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar.The labourers have been sent via trains to Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Rajasthan and Jammu and Kashmir.“Till now we have sent more than 86,590 stranded people from Pune division to various parts of the country through special Shramik Trains. Social distancing and precautionary measures were strictly followed during the process,” said Mhaisekar.“While on May 19 a total of 1,241 stranded Maharashtrian people from Amritsar were brought back to Sangali through special Shramik Train. More trains have been planned in the near future to various parts of the country to send back the stranded people,” said Mhaisekar.“This operation undertaken has been successful because of the Pune district administration, police department, concern tehsil offices and Pune railway division officials and staff have worked round the clock” he added.The stranded people from different parts of the district are first brought to the given railway station through public transport buses. Each one of them undergoes thermal checking and after verification of the documents they are been sent to travel by the special train, said officials.Social distancing norm strictly followedWhile carrying out the train operations for the stranded labourers, Pune railway division and its Railway protection force (RPF) has worked hard to maintain the social distancing norm to stop the spread of Covid-19 (coronavirus). Barricading has been done at Pune, Satara, Miraj and Kolhapur railway stations so that these passengers can stand in queue and maintain social distance. Each person is made to stand keeping at least one feet distance and the queue goes slowly further to board the train, said, officials.At the entrance of the railway station gate, thermal checking of every passenger is done and their tickets and documents are checked by the RPF policemen. And finally, one by one the passengers are sent to their designated coach and seat number said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/86-590-stranded-labourers-reach-home-via-63-special-shramik-trains/story-PlE24OFdvdo5WYphtkW5IN.html
21-05-2020||Pune||Businesses reopen in Pune under safety cover after 2 months||After two months of lockdown, Laxmi road, Bajirao road, Tilak road and Jungli Maharaj road sprung back to life after non-essential shop owners reopened their businesses on Wednesday.The staff at these shops were seen cleaning, checking stock and even attending to customers after Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad issued fresh guidelines on Tuesday.Shop owners have now been allowed to open their businesses on certain days of the week. The civic chief has granted permission to owners dealing in jewellery, electronics, mobiles, stationery, automobile parts, home appliances, utensils and others to reopen shops in non-containment zones.Yogendra Ashtekar, owner of Ashtekar jewellers shop, said, “We reopened our shop after 65 days. We are following the rules and regulations laid by authorities. Customers are sanitised.”The owner of DK Traders, Dhiraj Parmar, a cloth shop on Laxmi road said, “The first thing we did after reopening the shop is cleaning and checking stocks. We are following social distancing norms. The main problem we face now is that all our workers have gone back to their villages.”Nitesh Chopda, owner of Nataraj cloth shop, demanded more clarity from PMC on guidelines.“There is confusion in the order given by PMC. Most of us have reopened the shops, but there are specific days given by the civic body regarding category of shops. It’s all confusing as of now,” he said.Mahendra Bora, another shop owner, said, “The lockdown has impacted 40 to 50 per cent of businesses. We have paid staff salaries and most of them who have returned to hometowns are unwilling to return this year. Without staff, it is going to be difficult to run shops.”On Jungli Maharaj road and Fergusson college road, several non-essential shops of electronics, cloth, women accessories and food items reopened. People were seen walking on these areas during daytime, taking home food parcel from prominent hotels like Goodluck café.Kiran Pisal, who had come to get food parcel, said, “It’s good that relaxation has been implemented in non-red zones, but we should follow social distancing and other health safety norms.”In Pimpri-Chinchwad, businesses are allowed to remain open, apart from industries in rural and urban areas, private construction sites, private offices, government offices and I-T companies. The supply of essential and non-essential goods, courier and postal services, food home delivery in non-red zones has been allowed.A picture of relaxation was seen at several non-containment zones in the PCMC area like Tanajinagar, Akurdi road, Ajmera colony, Pradhikaran, Chinchwadgaon, and in some parts of Pimpri. Most of the non-essential shops were seen open and citizens bought goods with proper social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/businesses-reopen-after-two-months-of-shutdown/story-WBvCbhNAwUgVIPxEWDwo6N.html
21-05-2020||City||Sex determination centre busted in Ludhiana; doctor, woman agent held||A team of Gurdaspur and Ludhiana health departments, along with city police, busted a sex determination centre being run in Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar, Mundian Kalan, and arrested a doctor and woman agent on Wednesday.The team seized a portable ultra sound machine used for sex determination during a raid at the clinic.The team has also recovered ₹15,000 that was paid to the doctor by a decoy patient.The accused was identified as Dr Ramesh Kumar Sharma alias Dr Ramesh Tyagi, BAMS, Patna, and agent Jagjit Kaur. The raid was planned after receiving information from Gurdaspur health department.Dr Bagga, civil surgeon, Ludhiana, and Dr Kishan Chand, civil surgeon, Gurdaspur, said that acting on a tip off, a decoy patient was asked to get in touch with the woman agent at Gurdaspur. The agent demanded ₹15,000 from the patient for sex determination and informed her that scanning will be conducted in Mukerian. Later, the agent told the patient that they will have to go to Ludhiana for sex determination.“On Wednesday, the agent, while taking the decoy patient to Ludhiana in a car, also picked up another patient from the outskirts of the city. Minutes after they reached the clinic, our team conducted the raid,” said Dr Bagga.He added that the doctor failed to produce any document regarding registration of the portable ultra sound machine. The police were yet to lodge an FIR in the incident at the time of the filing of the report. Inspector Harjinder Singh said that he has not received any application from the health department yet. The case will be registered on the basis of the statement of the officials of the health departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sex-determination-centre-busted-in-ludhiana-doctor-woman-agent-held/story-vhITNb9VQCxo8cK1YlS1qM.html
21-05-2020||Pune||65-year-old Pune woman dances her way out of hospital after Covid-19 clean chit||A 65-year-old Covid-19 patient, discharged from hospital after her recovery from the Sars-Cov-2-virus, which causes the Covid-19 infection, is now a viral star after a video of her dancing her way during discharge, saw much traction on social media.The lady, who spent 10 days in the Aundh Civil Hospital’s intensive care unit (ICU), is a resident of Mangalwar peth.Her cheerful attitude, despite the difficult time, was much appreciated by online viewers.According to Dr Sharmila Gaikwad, one of the doctors who treated her, when the patient was hospitalised, her condition was “a bit serious”.“She suffers from pre-existing ailments such as diabetes and arthritis. She was admitted to the hospital a few days ago after she tested positive. So given that her condition was serious, as she also suffered from breathlessness and a cough, we shifted her to the ICU,” said Dr Gaikwad.Despite stiffness in her joints, the woman danced with a walking stick in hand, much to the amazement of staff at the hospital.The woman spent 12 days at the hospital before being recovering and returning home. “After getting to know that she is going home and that het second test was negative, she was very happy and began dancing. Many of us also cheered her for positivity,” said Dr Gaikwad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/65-year-old-woman-dances-her-way-out-of-hospital-after-covid-19-clean-chit/story-jnkg86bd9eNtRA5VOjX08K.html
21-05-2020||City||Police volunteer caught extorting money from commuter in Ludhiana||A Ludhiana police volunteer was caught taking ₹1,000 from a youth in exchange of releasing his vehicle documents on Wednesday.The volunteer had seized the bike documents of a commuter, Sooraj Kumar, on Tuesday, after threatening to issue a challan during checking at Shivpuri Chowk. On Wednesday, when the accused called Sooraj to a tea stall near Shivpuri Chowk, the latter reported the matter to senior traffic marshal Amarjit Singh Bhatti, under whom the volunteer was working.Later, Bhatti along with other social activists reached the spot and caught the volunteer red-handed accepting the cash and returning the motorcycle documents to the complainant.Bhatti said that the volunteer had joined city police curfew enforcement team around a month and a half ago. “He was removed from volunteer service after we caught him red handed making the exchange,” the senior traffic marshal said, adding that ID-card and uniform issued to the volunteer by the police were also taken back from him.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, traffic) Gurdev Singh, nodal officer of the volunteer, said the matter has come to his notice. “We are verifying the facts before taking further action,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-volunteer-caught-extorting-money-from-commuter-in-ludhiana/story-BaeqBBgrPG2uMf1GVq97cM.html
21-05-2020||Pune||Pune domestic helpers resume work with safety restrictions||In phase 4.0 of the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection, some housing societies have partially allowed house helps from non-containment zones to return to work.Amid apprehensions, Lata Salunke, who works as a domestic help at Kohinoor society, off Spicer College road, went to work on Wednesday. “I have been calling my employers for the past 20 days to resume work. They paid my salary until April, but May was getting a bit difficult,” she said.“Ours is a joint family and two among us work as maids. While I got a call to resume work, my sister-in-law is awaiting a positive reply from her employer,” said Salunke.“When I entered the bungalow society, the security staff checked me for fever before asking me whether I was carrying gloves and requested that I wear mask at all times while I was in my employee’s home. I was also informed that the garbage collected should be thrown inside the bin kept at the house. I sweep and clean the house, but it becomes difficult to work wearing gloves,” she said.Her sister-in-law Sunita Salunkhe sits outside their small home, cleaning utensils, eagerly waiting for her employer’s call. “My employee has paid my salary till May, but I need to work. I used to work at three houses in the same building, but owners of two houses called to say that they do not need my services.”The situation is almost similar in many of the housing societies in the city, where some domestic helpers from non-containment zones have rejoined work, but follow strict regulations.“We have started allowing domestic helps at our society from May 18. Apart from thermal screening and use of sanitiser at entrances, we have insisted that it is compulsory to wear mask at society premises. They cannot loiter, but visit houses and leave the residential premises once the work is over,” said Maithily Manakwad, a resident of NIBM road.“Maids have been given passes. They are not allowed to chew tobacco and spit. The public toilets have been acid-washed and marked for men and women,” Manakwad said.Meanwhile, in Padmavilas society, off Baner-Pashan link road, the society has allowed services of domestic help in houses of senior citizens and nuclear families which have children.“We had three to four domestic helpers who work in our society as almost 50 per cent of them have left for their hometowns. We have requested them to share their details like their address, number of people in their house, mode of transport among others,” said Rajendra Chuttar, chairman, Padmavilas society.Saroj Agarwal, a senior citizen and a resident of Baner-Pashan link road, has called her domestic help who lives nearby in the quarters provided by the builder. “We have provided our domestic helper and their entire family medicine and masks. She only cleans the house and follows the social distancing norms,” said Agarwal.Nirgunabai, who was working as a domestic helper and leaving for Beed tonight (Wednesday), said, “I wasn’t getting any work here, so I thought to return home and help my family in farming.”As many as 275 members in Aathashri Pashan have 38 domestic helpers who have been provided with accommodation and food. “We arranged for six women to stay within our complex 24-hours. They provided services as substitutes throughout the lockdown period. We, therefore, did not find it difficult. Also, we have senior citizens need round-the-clock helpers. We sanitise the entire complex twice a week,” said Hari Sundaresh, president of Athashri Pashan, on Baner-Pashan link road.“We do not plan to bring anyone from outside till the lockdown ends on May 31,” said Sundaresh.According to Sachin Vijay Khandelwal, a resident of Karan Celista, Sopan Baug, they are awaiting clarity from the civic body on maids resuming work. “We have not yet allowed domestic helpers to resume work in society. Most of the senior citizens residing in the society, except one or two, do not want services of domestic help as of now. If we get a circular from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), which specifies areas of containment and non-containment zones, accordingly we will take a call,” said Khandelwal.Residential societies set guidelines for domestic helps  Lack of clarity from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on maids has left many residential societies to set their own rules and regulations.Santosh Krishna, a resident of Wagholi, said, “I think the civic body has left the decision to housing societies to allow domestic helpers to resume work. A formal order from resident welfare associations or local governing body would have made things clear.”“We are taking a very protective approach because of the virus spread and will take a call later,” said Krishna.Several housing societies held online meetings to draft policies regarding maids and other domestic helpers. “At Sahil Sarene, we are also keeping PMC in the loop via online,” said Ameya Karambelkar a resident of Baner.While some felt that the onus of safety of its residents lies with the management, but lack of clarity on the issue is making it difficult to take a decision. “There are genuine requests for maids from senior citizens, patients, pregnant women, nursing mothers and working women. So, clarity from authorities on the issue in a must,” said Mehzabin Saiyed, secretary, Nyati Empire, Kharadi.“The domestic helpers in our society are not coming as of now. While some members of the society want to call back their maids, others are against because of health reasons” said Nitin Memane, a resident of Gera Emerald City North, Kharadi, adding that members are paying maids at least half salary.In Balewadi, some societies are collecting personal details of maids and ensuring that they belong from green zone. Other criteria include the helpers should either walk to work or use their personal vehicle (no public transport), should have stayed in Pune address for 15 days and should not be unwell.“We have advised people to start with one domestic helper, but many members are hesitant to call them,” said Sangeeta Baheti, a resident of Balewadi.Nandan Prospera, a residential society in Baner, has allowed a few domestic helpers to resume work from June 1, but only to houses that genuinely need their services. The housing committee has made resident employers responsible for ensuring that the maids follow all preventive criteria set by the government. The domestic helps will be issued an ID card only after the health safety measures are met.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/domestic-helpers-resume-work-with-safety-restrictions/story-DT2wNxvhhj7ftg79h45dyO.html
21-05-2020||City||Financier assaulted with sharp-edged weapons in Ludhiana’s Giaspura; 10 booked||Ten persons were booked after three masked men attacked a 27-year-old man with sharp-edged weapons in Giaspura area here on Tuesday evening. Police suspect an old rivalry to be the reason behind the attack.The victim has been identified as Nagmani, 27, a financer who lives in Surjit Singh Nagar in Giaspura area with his parents and brother. He was on his way back to home on a motorcycle when three masked men stopped him near a dairy on Futta road. Closed-circuit television camera images in the area show then men then pushing Nagmani off his bike and attacking him with the weapons, before fleeing the spot. The incident took place on a busy road but commuters and shopkeepers remained mute spectators and alerted the police only after the accused fled the scene. The victim was left in a pool of blood on middle of road for several minutes, until the police arrived and took him to a nearby private hospital.Inspector Inderjit Singh, Sahnewal station house officer, said the victim is in a critical condition.“Three persons attacked Nagmani, while seven more persons were involved in the conspiracy. An old rivalry seems to be the reason behind the crime as the accused and the victim had entered into a clash earlier also. Seven of the accused have been identified and the police are conducting a raid to arrest them. No arrest has been made so far,” he said.The accused have been identified as Nirmal Singh, Rupesh Kumar, Ram Dayal, Ravi, Rohit, Aman Saini and Ramesh while three persons are yet to be identified. A case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 341(punishment for wrongful restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation), 109 (punishment of abatement if the act abetted is committed in consequence), 120-B (criminal conspiracy), and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code IPC has been registered against the accused at Sahnewal police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/financier-assaulted-with-sharp-edged-weapons-in-ludhiana-s-giaspura-10-booked/story-1sOUJR00jteN7WR5g0U0xI.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Delhi HC directs jail authorities to take 1984 riots convict for medical check up||The Delhi high court has directed the jail authorities to take one of the convicts in a 1984 anti-Sikh riots case to ILBS Hospital within three days for medical check up as he has to undergo a liver and kidney transplant.A bench of justices Manmohan and Sanjeev Narula, who conducted the hearing through video conferencing, also directed the Delhi government and SIT to file their status reports by May 25 on convict Naresh Sehrawat’s plea seeking suspension of his sentence for three months on medical grounds.The court was hearing a plea by Sehrawat, who is serving life imprisonment in the riots case, seeking interim suspension of sentence for three months on grounds of needing a simultaneous liver and kidney transplant.The plea said though his appointment with the doctor at Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) Hospital here was fixed for March 11, he was not taken there by the jail authorities as his transportation was considered highly risky due to the COVID-19 pandemic.The court issued notice on the application to Delhi government, represented through advocate Kamra Vohra, and Special Investigation Team (SIT), represented through advocate Tarannum Cheema.“The jail authority is directed to ensure that the appellant (Sehrawat) is taken to ILBS Hospital within next three days for medical check up and treatment. The respondents (authorities) are directed to file their status reports on or before May 25,” the court said and listed the matter for further hearing on May 26.An SIT was earlier set up by the Ministry of Home Affairs to reinvestigate the riot cases.The trial court had awarded death penalty to convict Yashpal Singh and life term to Naresh Sehrawat in the case relating to the killing of two men in New Delhi during the 1984 riots - the first convictions in the cases reopened by the SIT.Sherawat has also appealed against his conviction and the sentence before the high court, which is pending.The death reference as well as appeal of Singh against the capital punishment awarded to him is also pending in the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/delhi-hc-directs-jail-authorities-to-take-1984-riots-convict-for-medical-check-up/story-syOQXLT8MwcmKuCiVbgA4O.html
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||48 people discharged in Chandigarh, five fresh cases from Bapu Dham||As many as 48 Covid-19 patients were discharged from the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) on Wednesday, taking the number of recoveries in Chandigarh to 139, even as five new cases surfaced at the Bapu Dham Colony containment zone. Now, the total number of confirmed cases stands at 205, of which only 63 are active. Three people have died so far.The development comes a day after 37 people recovered in the city. With this, the city has seen 85 recoveries in two days, and the recovery rate has shot up to 68%. Meanwhile, the fresh cases pertain to two men, aged 25 and 50, a woman, aged 28, and two children, a four-year-old boy and six-year-old girl. They were contacts of previous cases reported in Bapu Dham Colony, which accounts for 65% of Chandigarh’s confirmed cases.Even as the UT health department claimed only 45 recoveries — all from Bapu Dham Colony, the PGIMER release mentioned three more people — two females, aged 16 and 50, and one 10-year-old boy, also from the same colony — who were discharged upon two consecutive negative tests.The remaining 45 have been declared recovered a day after the UT administration asked the PGIMER to adhere to the new Covid-19 discharge policy for asymptomatic patients.According to the new guidelines issued by the Union health ministry, asymptomatic, pre-symptomatic and very mild symptomatic cases can be discharged from isolation health facility without testing provided they had been asymptomatic (no fever, breathlessness) for more than three days.All these 45 patients completed over two weeks’ quarantine at the PGIMER, but remained asymptomatic, and were thus eligible for discharge, confirmed a PGIMER official. However, they will have to remain in seven-day quarantine at Sood Dharamshala, Sector 22, considering the fact that further isolation may not be a possible in their congested dwellings in Bapu Dham.UT health secretary Arun Gupta said necessary arrangements have been made for their stay. “A part of the dharamshala is functional as a Covid care centre and we have medical staff posted there for any emergency,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-new-covid-19-cases-in-chandigarh-take-total-count-to-202/story-0Ijqngws2RIhyyCqzhtDTO.html
21-05-2020||World||2.4 million more Americans file for unemployment benefits||President Donald Trump on Wednesday accused China of spreading “disinformation” about the Covid-10 pandemic on orders emanating “from the top”, a reference perhaps to President Xi Jinping.Trump and his Republican allies have railed against China in effort to shift the blame the roiling epidemic in the United States and the severe toll it has taken on the economy.“Its disinformation and propaganda attack on the United States and Europe is a disgrace,” Trump tweeted late night, reacting to a statement from a Chinese government spokesperson. “It all comes from the top,” he went on to say in a rare attack on the Chinese president. “They could have easily stopped the plague, but they didn’t!”Thursday morning, the US labor department reported more than 2.4 million workers filed for unemployment benefits last week, taking up the total of those laid off in the nine weeks of Covid-19 lockdowns to 38.6 million.The new weekly layoff number was lower than the revised total for last week of 2.6 million. Though it has continued to decline from the peak of 6.7 million in March end, layoffs have not ceased with businesses downsizing operation or shutting down completely every day, taking a severe toll on the economy.New infections and fatalities have also dropped considerably allowing all 50 states to reopen by partially lifting restrictions. But normalcy is not in sight yet.The United States is now staring at the 100,000 fatalities mark, as the toll went up up to 93,471 Thursday with 1,518 deaths in the last 24 hours. Infections rose by 23,285 to 1.55 million over the same period. Democratic congressional leaders have asked the president to order the national flag to fly at half most on public buildings when the toll crosses 100,000.Though New York city, the epicenter of the American epidemic, continues to improve. But governor Andrew Cuomo has said new coronavirus cases continue to spread among lower income and minority communities. Of 8,000 antibody tests conducted in those areas found an infection rate of 34% in the Bronx, 29% in Brooklyn and 25% in Queens; which were way higher than the citywide average off 19.9%.Meanwhile, a new study has shown that thousands of lives would have been saved if the United States had started locking down its cities earlier than it did. If the lockdown had started on March 1, 54,000 fewer people would have died, the study by Columbian University said. And toll would have been 36,000 less if the curbs went into effect just a week before they did on March 16.And Robert Redfield, head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, has said he cannot rule out a second wave of Covid-19 cases later in the year during the usual flu seas next winter. “We’ve seen evidence that the concerns it would go south in the southern hemisphere like flu (are coming true), and you’re seeing what’s happening in Brazil now,” Redfield told Financial Times Wednesday. “And then when the southern hemisphere is over I suspect it will reground itself in the north.” He had earlier said the second wave could be more devastating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/2-4-million-more-americans-file-for-unemployment-benefits/story-QSdl91J0wVnVV0xVUFV8cK.html
21-05-2020||World||Covid-19 update: UK deaths cross 36,000, including 695 Indians||The number of daily deaths and new cases is showing a steady decline, particularly in London, but new figures on Thursday revealed the UK-wide death toll had reached a cumulative figure of 36,042 (including 695 ‘Indians’ in England) and 250,098 cases.According to NHS England, 695 members of the non-white community categorised as ‘Indian’ died after contracting coronavirus as of May 19. The UK-wide death toll of 36,042 includes a day rise of 338.Prime Minister Boris Johnson faced renewed calls from within and outside the ruling party to scrap the immigration health surcharge levied on Indian and other non-EU health professionals who need to pay 400 pounds per person per year to access the National Health Service (NHS).Senior Conservative party called it ‘immoral and monstrous’ that migrants putting their lives at risk to treat coronavirus patients had to pay the surcharge, which amounts to them for it twice, since they also pay income tax, which funds the NHS. The surcharge is levied on all non-EU migrants, and the demand is to scrap it for doctors and other healthcare professionals.Johnson told the House of Commons that he recognised the contribution of migrants and recalled his own recent life-saving treatment at the hands of nurses from outside the UK, but refused to scrap the surcharge on the ground that the NHS needs the funding.The surcharge, payable at the time a migrant applies for a UK visa, is to rise to 624 pounds per person per year from October. Various organisations, including the British Association of Physicians of Indian Origin have campaigned the the surcharge to be waived.There are indications that some flights will operate from early June to selected holiday destinations within the UK and Europe as part of plans to gradually reopen the economy while maintaining social distancing and other curbs.The Home Office meanwhile extended the offer of permanent stay (indefinite leave to remain), free of charge, to the families and dependants of non-EU NHS support staff and social care workers who die as result of contracting coronavirus. It will be applicable retrospectively.Home secretary Priti Patel said: “Every death in this crisis is a tragedy, and sadly some NHS support staff and social care workers have made the ultimate sacrifice in the pursuit of saving the lives of others”.“When I announced the introduction of the bereavement scheme in April, I said we would continue to work across government to look at ways to offer further support. Today we are extending the scheme to NHS support staff and social care workers”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-update-uk-deaths-cross-36-000-including-695-indians/story-sOiK45kypQG0iCD16ftJJO.html
21-05-2020||World||Firmly opposed to US sale of torpedoes to Taiwan, China fumes||China on Thursday said it firmly opposes the planned US sale of advanced torpedoes to Taiwan, a self-ruled democracy, which Beijing claims is a breakaway province.The Chinese foreign ministry reacted angrily after reports emerged from Taiwan about the sale valued at some $180 million.Spokesperson Zhao Lijian said Beijing had lodged “solemn representations” with the US to complain about the sale, adding that it firmly opposes the deal.Zhao said China urges the US to strictly abide by the “one China” principle, stop selling arms to Taiwan, avoid further damage to Sino-US relations and maintain peace and stability in the Taiwan Strait.Earlier, media reports said the US government had notified Congress of a possible sale of advanced torpedoes to Taiwan worth around $180 million, a decision that was bound to trigger angry reaction from Beijing.Washington like the majority of countries worldwide including India do not have official diplomatic ties with Taiwan, an island off China’s southern coast.It is however bound by law to provide Taiwan the means to protect itself.The announcement of the sale coincided with Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen searing in for her second term in office, and saying that she strongly rejects China’s sovereignty claims.China responded that “reunification” was inevitable and that it would never tolerate Taiwan’s independence.The latest point of conflict between Beijing and Washington added to the existing problems between the two countries including the ongoing exchange over the origin of the pandemic-causing Covid-19 virus.The US has repeatedly criticised China for mishandling the outbreak and hiding information about the virus, which first emerged in the central Chinese city of Wuhan late last year.China has hit back, saying accusing the Donald Trump administration of politicising a global health problem to deflect attention from its own failure to handle the outbreak in the country.China has more or less brought the outbreak under control with numbers stabilising near 83000 infections and over 4600 deaths.The US has so far reported more than 1.55 million infections and over 93,000 deaths, according to the latest tally by Johns Hopkins University. ■||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/firmly-opposed-to-us-sale-of-torpedoes-to-taiwan-china-fumes/story-giv24ye8A0oaMCSvrLCd9K.html
21-05-2020||World||Nearly 39 million Americans unemployed since Covid-19 hit US||The number of Americans thrown out of work since the coronavirus crisis struck two months ago has climbed to nearly 39 million, the government said Thursday.More than 2.4 million people applied for unemployment benefits last week in the latest wave of layoffs from the outbreak that has triggered nationwide business shutdowns and brought the economy to its knees, the Labor Department reported. That brings the running total to a staggering 38.6 million.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here An additional 2.2 million sought aid under a new federal program for self-employed, contractor and gig workers, who are now eligible for unemployment benefits for the first time. Those figures aren’t adjusted for seasonal variations, so they are not included in the overall number of applications.Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell said the unemployment rate could peak in May or June at 20% to 25% — a level unseen since the depths of the Great Depression in the 1930s.As of April, unemployment stood at 14.7%, a figure also unmatched since the era when President Franklin D. Roosevelt was assuring Americans that the only thing to fear was fear itself.The breathtaking downturn — unprecedented in its speed — has turned up the pressure on politicians to lift the lockdowns that are destroying businesses and livelihoods.The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimated the economy is shrinking at a 38% annual rate in the April-June period, by far the worst quarterly contraction on record.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage About 5 million people worldwide have been confirmed infected, and over 328,000 deaths have been recorded. That includes more than 93,000 in the US and around 165,000 in Europe, according to a tally kept by Johns Hopkins University and based on government data. Experts believe the true toll is significantly higherMeanwhile, doubts grew over ambitious plans by European governments to use contact-tracing smartphone apps to fight the spread of the virus as they ease their lockdowns and restart their economies.British Security Minister James Brokenshire told the BBC that an app that was supposed to be introduced by mid-May is not ready, and he suggested “technical issues” were to blame.Similarly, France delayed last week’s sdplanned roll-out of its app, saying it won’t be ready before next month because of technical problems and privacy concerns.Experts say that being able to quickly identify people exposed to the virus can help stop the spread of the scourge.Italian Premier Giuseppe Conte said Thursday that the country’s app will begin testing in the coming days, and Spain plans to try out its technology at the end of June in the Canary Islands.Meanwhile, drug maker AstraZeneca said it has secured agreements to produce 400 million doses of a still experimental and unproven Covid-19 vaccine that is being tested at the University of Oxford, one of the most advanced projects in the search for a vaccine.While no vaccine has yet been proven to work against the virus, the pharmaceutical industry is already working to ramp production so that massive doses will be available quickly.The Anglo-Swedish company reported it has received more than $1 billion from the US Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority for the development, production and delivery of the vaccine, starting this fall.AstraZeneca CEO Pascal Soriot said the company “will do everything in our power to make this vaccine quickly and widely available.’’Around the world, the effort to get back to business is raising worries over the risk of new infections, from hard-hit Milan, Italy, to meatpacking plants in Colorado and garment factories in Bangladesh.In China, the communist leadership took extensive precautions to prevent infections as it prepared for the opening of its National People’s Congress on Friday and a parallel meeting of advisers on Thursday. The meetings in Beijing were delayed for two months because of the outbreak.An outbreak at the congress would be a potential public relations nightmare as President Xi Jinping showcases Beijing’s apparent success in curbing the virus that emerged in the Wuhan late last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nearly-39-million-americans-unemployed-since-covid-19-hit-us/story-XcVteBDarWlSZGKdEoOZuK.html
21-05-2020||World||China set to implement controversial security law in HK, likely to escalate protest||China will introduce a draft resolution for a new national security law in Hong Kong proscribing secession, terrorism and foreign interference in the specially administered region (SAR), a top official announced late on Thursday night.The move could escalate tension in the city, which has seen largescale pro-democracy protests since last June.The draft resolution will be introduced as a motion and discussed during the opening session of China’s Parliament, National People’s Congress (NPC) on Friday.The announcement was made at a late-night press conference by the NPC spokesperson, Zhang Yesui.The passing of the motion is expected to be a formality as NPC is largely a ruber-stamp parliament under the ruling Communist Party of China.Zhang said that because of new circumstances and need, the NPC is exercising the power enshrined in the constitution to establish and improve a legal framework and mechanism for safeguarding national security and upholding the institutional framework for ‘one country, two systems’.”He added: “Hong Kong is an inseparable part of the People’s Republic of ChinaThe NPC is the country’s highest organ of state power. National security is the bedrock underpinning the stability of the country. Safeguarding national security serves the fundamental interest of all Chinese, and Hong Kong patriots included.”“This also shows that the central government would safeguard China’s core interests at all costs,” a state media report said.The writing in of the new security law into Hong Kong’s special charter, or Basic Law, could see the mainland’s control over the SAR tighten substantially.The city has violent protests since last June on that very issue: Beijing’s apparent tightening of control over the city and its impact on freedoms including that of free speech and expression.The “one country, two systems” system that governs Hong Kong hast been thrown into question by student-led pro-democracy protests that went on for months last year and have shown signs of building up again in recent weeksThe new law would ban all seditious activities aimed at toppling the central government and external interference in Hong Kong’s affairs. It would also target terrorist acts in Hong Kong, an earlier report by the South China Morning Post said.The move to introduce the draft resolution comes as the city’s delegates to the NPC sessions, beginning Friday, were said to have met Xia Baolong, director of the State Council’s (China’s cabinet) Hong Kong and Macau Office (HKMAO) on Thursday evening.The implementation of the new law – if it is carried out – would “…mark a significant departure from Beijing’s earlier decision to allow Hong Kong to draft and enact the legislation within its own legislature,” the SCMP report said.Separately, China said Thursday it supports improving the system and mechanism related to the constitution and basic law of Hong Kong and Macau.The former European colonies (Hong Kong was under the British and Macau under the Portuguese) returned to Chinese rule in the late 1990s under a system aimed at preserving their economic systems and ensuring their autonomy, known as “one country, two systems”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/beijing-to-introduce-security-bill-to-tighten-control-on-hong-kong-reports/story-qrhAVKWXjHOSUACm2kDxqL.html
21-05-2020||World||Scientists propose new truncated process for developing Covid-19 vaccines at “pandemic speed”||Scientists have proposed a new truncated process for developing vaccines quickly during a pandemic, with a fast start and many steps executed in parallel before confirming a successful outcome of another step, an approach they claim can help stop the Covid-19 crisis. According to the researchers from the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovation (CEPI), vaccine development is a lengthy, expensive process with high rates of attrition, typically taking multiple candidates, and many years to produce a licensed therapeutic. CEPI, which includes Nicole Lurie, Distinguished Health Policy Fellow from the University of Pennsylvania in the US, is a foundation that finances independent research projects to develop vaccines against emerging infectious diseases. In an article, published in the New England Journal of Medicine, experts from CEPI said vaccine developers usually follow a linear sequence of steps, with multiple pauses for data analysis or manufacturing-process checks due to the cost and high failure rates of the process. However, with a quick start and phases executed in parallel, such as scaling up manufacturing before successful confirmation of the outcomes, the scientists believe the process can be fast-tracked, but with high financial risks. They said for some vaccine platforms which have yielded significant success in humans, phase I clinical trials may be able to proceed in parallel with testing in animal models. According to the researchers, an ideal platform for this new paradigm would support development from viral sequencing to clinical trials in less than 16 weeks. Such a truncated process, they said, can demonstrate the successful and consistent activation of immune responses in humans, and be suitable for a large-scale manufacturing platform that is independent of the pathogen. Citing an example, they said Moderna’s mRNA-based SARS-CoV-2 candidate vaccine entered a phase I clinical trial on March 16, less than 10 weeks after the first genetic sequences were released. The proposed paradigm, the scientists said, requires multiple activities to be conducted at financial risk without knowing whether the vaccine candidate will be safe and effective. Among those with the greatest potential for quick development are DNA- and RNA-based platforms, the researchers noted in the article. They explained that both these genetic material-based vaccines can be made quickly since they do not require culture or fermentation, but instead use synthetic processes. According to the researchers, the use of next-generation genome sequencing may also cut development time of more conventional vaccines during epidemics. Among other ways of hastening the process, they said testing in a suitable animal model, and rigorous safety monitoring in clinical trials will be critical. The scientists also suggested that manufacturing steps could be scaled up to commercial levels before data on the trial’s outcomes are available. However, they cautioned that building manufacturing capacity can cost hundreds of millions of dollars. With novel platform technologies, the article also warned that there is additional cause for concern since large-scale production of these vaccine prototypes has never been done. For these platforms, the scientists said, facilities capable of producing large quantities must be identified, technologies transferred, and manufacturing processes adapted, all without knowing if the vaccine candidate is viable. But since it’s unclear if these new platforms will be scalable to produce sufficient quantities of vaccine fast enough, they recommended that vaccines also be developed using tried-and-true methods in parallel, even if they take longer to enter clinical trials. One possible way, the scientists said, would be to test several vaccines simultaneously in a clinical trial design which uses a single, shared control group, so that more participants would receive an active vaccine. However, they said this approach can be logistically and statistically complex, and may generate head-to-head comparative data which different vaccine developers may seek to avoid. “A global financing system that supports end-to-end development, large-scale manufacturing, deployment, and ensures fair allocation, and protects private-sector partners from significant financial losses will be a critical component of future pandemic preparedness,” the researchers concluded in the article.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/scientists-propose-new-truncated-process-for-developing-covid-19-vaccines-at-pandemic-speed/story-pz8ZspQu0TJHD1OqT2QAaO.html
21-05-2020||World||Covid-19 update: AstraZeneca ramps up capacity ahead of Oxford trial results||Biopharma major AstraZeneca on Thursday said it has ramped up its capacity to produce a vaccine for Covid-19 on a wide scale ahead of initial results “expected shortly” from ongoing human trials at the University of Oxford.The capacity is based on the company’s agreements with producers in several countries - together, it said it now has total capacity sourced for one billion doses through 2020 and into 2021. First deliveries are expected in September.It is in discussions with the Serum Institute of India to increase production. AstraZeneca has received support of more than $1 billion from the US Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority for the development, production and delivery of the vaccine.In addition, the company said it is engaging with international organisations such as the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, Gavi the Vaccine Alliance and the World Health Organisation for the fair allocation and distribution of the potential vaccine around the world.AstraZeneca has finalised its licence agreement with Oxford University for the recombinant adenovirus vaccine. The licensing of the vaccine, formerly ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 and now known as AZD1222, follows the recent global development and distribution agreement with the University’s Jenner Institute and the Oxford Vaccine Group.A Phase I/II clinical trial of AZD1222 began last month to assess safety, immunogenicity and efficacy in over 1,000 healthy volunteers aged 18 to 55 years across several trial centres in southern England.“Data from the trial is expected shortly which, if positive, would lead to late-stage trials in a number of countries. AstraZeneca recognises that the vaccine may not work but is committed to progressing the clinical program with speed and scaling up manufacturing at risk” the company said.CEO Pascal Soriot said: “This pandemic is a global tragedy and it is a challenge for all of humanity. We need to defeat the virus together or it will continue to inflict huge personal suffering and leave long-lasting economic and social scars in every country around the world”.“We are so proud to be collaborating with Oxford University to turn their ground-breaking work into a medicine that can be produced on a global scale. We would like to thank the US and UK governments for their substantial support to accelerate the development and production of the vaccine. We will do everything in our power to make this vaccine quickly and widely available.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-update-astrazeneca-ramps-up-capacity-ahead-of-oxford-trial-results/story-cKK7FCJUtOa56OWnUPS4AM.html
21-05-2020||World||Covid-19: China vaccine maker inks Canada deal to develop second shot||Leading Chinese vaccine developer CanSino Biologics Inc. has inked a deal to test and sell a separate Canadian vaccine candidate as the race for immunization intensifies globally.In addition to developing its own vaccine together with the Chinese military, CanSino will partner with Vancouver-based Precision NanoSystems Inc. to co-develop another potential vaccine, according to a joint press release Wednesday.The Chinese company will conduct testing of Precision’s experimental vaccine and has the right to commercialize it in Asia excluding Japan, said the statement.Widely viewed as one of the front-runners in the race to develop a successful vaccine, the new deal adds to CanSino’s chances of being among the first to deliver immunizing shots. Chinese President Xi Jinping has pledged to make any effective vaccine against the coronavirus that is developed by China accessible and affordable globally as a “public good.”CanSino’s own vaccine is currently in the second of three phases of human testing and is among five Chinese candidates to have reached that advanced stage -- more than the U.S. and Europe combined.CanSino’s stock surged in Hong Kong on Thursday morning before abruptly reversing gains in the afternoon. Overall, the company’s head start in coronavirus vaccine development has made it the second-most overbought stock among mid-cap and big-caps in Hong Kong.The Tianjin-based company was set up in 2009 by vaccine industry veterans who had previously worked for global pharmaceutical firms like Sanofi and AstraZeneca Plc. The company’s partnered with the Chinese military before, developing a shot against Ebola that was approved domestically in 2017, although it was not deployed internationally.The vaccine that CanSino will co-develop with Precision Nanosystems harnesses an experimental approach also being used by Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Moderna Inc. Known as mRNA vaccines, they contain the virus’s genetic sequence to instruct cells to make antigens that elicit a response from the immune system.Governments, research institutes and companies around the world have accelerated vaccine development that usually takes years into several months as pressure grows for scientists to find a way out of the pandemic. A vaccine is considered a crucial step toward lifting social-distancing measures and safely reopening economies, schools and events around the globe.Despite growing tensions between China and some western countries who have faulted it for a delay in sharing information about the pandemic, Chinese vaccine developers have inked cooperation pacts with foreign companies.Chinese drugmaker Shanghai Fosun Pharmaceutical Group Co. announced in March a partnership with Germany’s BioNTech SE to help test its mRNA vaccine in China.Besides the new partnership, CanSino has also already received approval to conduct human clinical trials in Canada for the vaccine it is co-developing with the Chinese military.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-china-vaccine-maker-inks-canada-deal-to-develop-second-shot/story-NPTWerQ7VZanTNuH3P06xM.html
21-05-2020||World||Pompeo calls China coronavirus response ‘paltry’ compared to damage done||US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo took fresh aim at China over the coronavirus on Wednesday, calling the $2 billion Beijing has pledged to fight the pandemic “paltry” compared to the hundreds of thousands of lives lost and trillions of dollars of damage.Pompeo rejected President Xi Jinping’s claim that Beijing had acted with transparency after the outbreak in China, and said if Xi wanted to show that, he should hold a news conference and allow reporters to ask him anything they liked.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“President Xi claimed this week that China is acting with openness, transparency responsibility. I wish it were so,” Pompeo told a State Department news conference, charging that Beijing continued to withhold virus samples and access to facilities, to censor discussion, “and much, much more.”US-China tensions have spiked in recent weeks, with Pompeo and President Donald Trump slamming Beijing’s handling of the outbreak. The United States has been hardest hit in the global pandemic.At a time when many nations are urging unity and cooperation to ramp up the virus battle, Trump has proposed quitting the World Health Organization over its response and called it a “puppet of China,” while Xi has pledged it $2 billion.“I look forward to seeing them fulfill that $2-billion commitment,” Pompeo said. “China’s contributions to fighting the pandemic are paltry, compared to the cost that they have imposed on the world.”“This plague has cost roughly 90,000 American lives, more than 36 million Americans have lost their jobs since March; globally 300,000 lives. Could be as much as $9 trillion, according to our estimates, cost imposition on the world of the Chinese Communist Party’s failures,” Pompeo said.In Beijing, China called Pompeo “extremely irresponsible”, and urged him to explain shortcomings in the US response to the virus.“Why didn’t the US government take any control and prevention measures between January and March?” said Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian.“Why did it fail to stem the fast spread of coronavirus in the United States? He has a responsibility to explain this to the world.” Pompeo also accused China of threatening Australia with “economic retribution” for seeking an independent inquiry into the outbreak’s origins and charged that WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus had had “unusually close ties to Beijing ... long before this current pandemic,” something “deeply troubling.”The WHO did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Pompeo’s accusations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pompeo-calls-china-coronavirus-response-paltry-compared-to-damage-done/story-6V0Y2n4DS01759pDIWzG5I.html
21-05-2020||World||AstraZeneca gets $1 billion from US to make Oxford vaccine||AstraZeneca Plc received more than $1 billion in U.S. government funding for an experimental Covid-19 vaccine from the University of Oxford, a boost to one of the world’s fastest-moving projects to develop a shot.The investment accelerates a race to secure vaccine supplies, seen as a key step toward restarting global economies after a lockdown-induced slump. Stock markets have been rising and falling on developments in research labs as investors weigh the prospects.The U.K. drugmaker received the money from the U.S. Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority and said it has secured capacity to make 1 billion doses. Although AstraZeneca has said it expects to have shots ready as soon as September, the company’s vaccine candidate is still in human trials, with no guarantee of success.The funding for AstraZeneca is part of the Operation Warp Speed effort to secure vaccines for the U.S., according to a statement from the Health and Human Services Department. Astra can receive up to $1.2 billion under the agreement, and the U.S. expects 300 million doses to be available as early as October.Other ProjectsThe U.S. “is making multiple major investments in developing and manufacturing promising vaccines long before they’re approved so that a successful vaccine will reach the American people without a day wasted,” HHS Secretary Alex Azar said. Oxford’s vaccine is the fourth to receive BARDA support.The U.S. agency has also provided funding for French pharmaceutical giant Sanofi, including $30 million for its Covid vaccine and a $226 million award in December to increase production capacity for its pandemic influenza vaccine. A Covid vaccine developed by the company will probably go to Americans first if the company can successfully deliver one, Chief Executive Officer Paul Hudson said last week in an interview with Bloomberg News.Sanofi said later that it would make the shot available everywhere. While the absence of a European counterpart to BARDA has slowed efforts to secure supplies, Hudson said the French company is in talks with several governments on possible arrangements.Supplying the U.K. with vaccine will be a priority for AstraZeneca, CEO Pascal Soriot has said. Astra plans to make as many as 30 million doses available in Britain by September and has committed to delivering 100 million this year.Fair AllocationAstra said it’s working with groups including the World Health Organization, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, on making sure the vaccine is allocated fairly. The company said it has supply agreements for 400 million doses.“Several more agreements are expected to deliver AstraZeneca’s commitment to ensure global access,” a spokesman said in an email. “These agreements are happening in parallel in order to ensure broad and equitable supply of the vaccine throughout the world at no profit during the pandemic.”The shares fell 1.4% early Thursday in London.The U.S. funding will support a final-stage clinical trial with 30,000 participants, as well as tests in children, AstraZeneca said.Some doubts have been raised about the potential effectiveness of the Oxford vaccine after early results in monkeys were released. While the shot may have protected animals against severe infections, the results were weak compared with those of a test of a vaccine under development by Sinovac Biotech in Beijing, said William Haseltine, a former Harvard University HIV researcher, in a blog post.Infections in MonkeysThe comparison is inapt for studies carried out with different types of vaccines given in varying doses, in monkeys who were infected with different levels of virus, the Oxford researchers said in a statement. “In the end it is the impact on clinical disease that matters,” they said.Dozens of other vaccine projects are underway around the world, from the U.S. to China, drawing in major pharma giants, university labs and others. Moderna Inc. shares jumped earlier this week after the U.S. biotech revealed positive early results from its experimental vaccine.President Xi Jinping of China has said any successful vaccine developed there will be made available as a global public good.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/astrazeneca-gets-1-billion-from-us-to-make-oxford-vaccine/story-Z9rwskitlqY4cdlaOdshBM.html
21-05-2020||World||Brazil coronavirus outbreak worsens as country could soon be No. 2 in cases||Brazil’s coronavirus outbreak worsened on Wednesday and the South American nation could soon have the second-highest number of cases in the world as the Health Ministry reported 888 new deaths and nearly 20,000 new infections in a single day. Brazil might soon trail only the United States in the number of coronavirus cases. Russia currently has the second-highest number of cases. Brazil’s coronavirus death toll is 18,859.Brazil’s confirmed case tally now stands at 291,579, according to the Health Ministry. On Monday, Brazil overtook Britain to become the country with the third-highest number of infections and registered a daily record of 1,179 deaths on Tuesday.President Jair Bolsonaro has been widely criticized for his handling of the outbreak. The far-right former army captain has long snubbed social-distancing measures, arguing instead for the reopening the economy. He has also become an increasingly strong advocate for the malaria drug chloroquine as a possible remedy for Covid-19, despite warnings from health experts.On Wednesday, the Health Ministry issued new guidelines for wider use of anti-malarial drugs in mild coronavirus cases.Interim Health Minister Eduardo Pazuello, an active-duty army general, authorized the modified protocol after two trained doctors left the ministry’s top job under pressure to promote the early use of chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine. “We are at war. Worse than defeat would be the shame of not putting up a fight,” Bolsonaro tweeted about the government decision to put forward the drugs without proof of their effectiveness.Gonzalo Vecina Neto, the former head of Brazil’s health regulator, Anvisa, called the new measures a “barbarity” that could cause more harm than good because of the dangerous potential side effects of the drug.“It has no scientific evidence,” Vecina Neto told Reuters. “(It is) unbelievable that in the 21st century, we are living off magical thinking.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-coronavirus-outbreak-worsens-as-country-could-soon-be-no-2-in-cases/story-MmgXoFrtNmodidOX19buJJ.html
21-05-2020||World||UK healthcare workers begin Covid-19 hydroxychloroquine trial||British healthcare workers will on Thursday begin taking part in a University of Oxford-led international trial of two anti-malarial drugs to see if they can prevent COVID-19, including one U.S. President Donald Trump says he has been taking.The ‘COPCOV’ study will involve more than 40,000 frontline healthcare workers from Europe, Africa, Asia and South America to determine if chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine are effective in preventing the novel coronavirus.The drugs have risen to prominence since Trump said earlier this week he was taking hydroxychloroquine as a preventive medicine against the virus despite medical warnings about its use.The trial, led by the University of Oxford with the support of the Mahidol Oxford Tropical Medicine Research Unit (MORU) in Bangkok, will open to British participants at hospital sites in Brighton and Oxford on Thursday and involve those who are in close contact with patients with proven or suspected COVID-19.“We really do not know if chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine are beneficial or harmful against COVID-19,” said the University of Oxford’s Professor Nicholas White, the study’s co-principal investigator who is based at MORU. “The best way to find out if they are effective in preventing COVID-19 is in a randomised clinical trial,” In Britain, Europe and Africa participants will receive either hydroxychloroquine or a placebo for three months. In Asia they will receive either chloroquine or a placebo. A total of 25 study sites are expected to be open in the UK by the end of June, MORU said, with plans for further sites in Thailand and Southeast Asia, Italy, Portugal, Africa and South America. The results are expected by the end of this year. “We are looking at this with great care and examining all of the evidence that is out there,” Britain’s security minister James Brokenshire told Sky News.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-healthcare-workers-begin-covid-19-hydroxychloroquine-trial/story-4QKJjkuuwJvbUk34nllw1I.html
21-05-2020||World||US envoy working to resuscitate flagging Afghanistan peace deal||The first visit to Kabul by Washington’s peace envoy since Afghanistan’s squabbling political leadership reached a power-sharing agreement comes amid increased violence blamed mostly on an Islamic State affiliate that has been targeted in stepped-up US bombing.Zalmay Khalilzad, in a flurry of tweets Thursday, told of his meetings in Doha earlier in the week with Taliban representatives and on Wednesday with Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and fellow leader Abdullah Abdullah. All were aimed at resuscitating a US-Taliban peace deal signed in February.Khalilzad called for a reduction in violence by all sides in Afghanistan’s protracted conflict that has kept America militarily engaged for 19 years. He also said too much time has been wasted getting to the second and critical phase of the peace deal, which calls for talks between the Taliban and Afghanistan’s political leadership.Abdullah will head those efforts as part of the deal he signed with Ghani to end their monthslong dispute over who won Afghanistan’s presidential election last September. He conceded the win to Ghani but as part of a power sharing agreement.US President Donald Trump said again last week that American soldiers have wrongly been tasked with policing the country and called on Afghanistan to step up.The US has about 12,000 soldiers deployed to Afghanistan, split between counter-terrorism and the NATO-led Resolute Support’s 16,500 troop mission, which trains and aids Afghanistan’s National Security Forces. Washington currently pays about $4 billion annually to keep Afghanistan’s military in fighting form.US Department of Defense officials have told The Associated Press their biggest worry in Afghanistan is an increasingly active IS affiliate headquartered in the east. The group has ties to Middle Eastern affiliates as well as militant groups like the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan and the Chinese Uighur group, East Turkestan Islamic Movement.The officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the subject, say the IS affiliate in Afghanistan has been linked to foiled plots to attack America in recent years. The US also blamed IS for a brutal attack on a maternity hospital earlier this month in Kabul that left 24 people dead, including two infants and several mothers.The increased IS activity in Afghanistan has added urgency to US efforts to resuscitate the peace deal, which commits the Taliban to fight terrorist groups in Afghanistan. The same Department of Defense officials said they want the Taliban in the battle to rout IS from Afghanistan.Without intra-Afghan negotiations, the cease-fire Washington wants between the Taliban and the government won’t happen .Taliban representatives say a cease-fire will be on the agenda in any intra-Afghan talks, which were to start by mid-March. The delay has been blamed on Afghanistan’s squabbling leadership in Kabul and disruptions in prisoner releases, which were promised as part of the peace deal ahead of intra-Afghan negotiations.In his tweets, Khalilzad called for the prisoner release to be completed. He also reiterated he is seeking Taliban assistance with US citizens missing in Afghanistan, including US contractor Mark Frerichs who disappeared in January. Several Taliban leaders contacted by The AP said they are not holding Frerichs and have told Khalilzad repeated times.Suhail Shaheen, Taliban spokesman in Doha, said Wednesday the Taliban are committed to the deal and demanded its prisoners be released.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-envoy-working-to-resuscitate-flagging-afghanistan-peace-deal/story-Xi0R91GwWAzNyJhYKJRS3L.html
21-05-2020||World||‘Fruitless and repetitive’: Iran dismisses new US sanctions||Iran dismissed on Thursday new US sanctions on several Iranian officials, saying they were a sign of the complete inefficiency of Washington’s previous sanctions on the Islamic Republic, state television reported. “Washington’s fruitless and repetitive sanctions against Iranian officials is a sign of weakness, despair and confusion of the US administration,” state TV quoted Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman Abbas Mousavi as saying. The United States on Wednesday imposed sanctions on several Iranian authorities, including the interior minister, accusing them of engaging in serious cases of human rights abuse.The US Treasury Department said Interior Minister Abdolreza Rahmani-Fazli gave orders authorising the Law Enforcement Forces (LEF) of Iran to use lethal force in response to anti-government protests in November, leading to the killing of protesters, including at least 23 minors. Hundreds of young and working-class Iranians took to the streets on Nov. 15 to protest against the government’s decision to increase fuel prices. The protests turned political, with demonstrators burning pictures of senior officials and calling on clerical rulers to step down. Iran’s top authority, Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, denounced the unrest as a “very dangerous conspiracy” by Iran’s enemies.An opposition website said in January that at least 631 people were killed during the unrest and London-based Amnesty International said more than 300 people had been killed. Both accounts have been dismissed by the Islamic Republic, which has yet to give a death toll. The Iranian judiciary has sentenced dozens of protesters to long terms in prison.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fruitless-and-repetitive-iran-dismisses-new-us-sanctions/story-ubAyg2PctkSsGxTL97U3dL.html
21-05-2020||World||AstraZeneca to make billion Covid vaccine doses if tests succeed||AstraZeneca
21-05-2020||World||Pakistan’s Covid-19 tally crosses 48,000; PM Imran Khan says learn to live with coronavirus||The number of Covid-19 crossed the 48,000-mark in Pakistan on Thursday after 2,193 new cases surfaced in the last 24 hours.The total number of infections in the country are to 48,091, Pakistan’s health ministry said. The death toll stands at 1,017 with 32 new fatalities, it further added.Sindh reported the maximum number of 18,964 cases, followed by 17,382 in Punjab, 6,815 in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa, 2,968 in Balochistan, 1,235 in Islamabad, 579 in Gilgit-Baltistan and 148 in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir.As many as 14,155 patients have recovered so far, the officials said.As many as 15,346 coronavirus tests, the highest in a single day, were conducted in Pakistan in the last 24 hours, health officials said. The authorities have conducted 4,29,600 tests so far.The number of daily testing increased after Planning Minister Asad Umar on Tuesday said that 30,000 tests per day would be sufficient for Pakistan to control the spread of the deadly virus.Pakistan is in a position to conduct over 25,000 tests per day, he said, expressing hope that by May-end or early June the country would be able to conduct 30,000 tests per day.Meanwhile, a report released by the Pakistan Federal Union of Journalists (PFUJ) said that Covid-19 has claimed the lives of three mediapersons in the country and infected 156 others.The report released on Wednesday highlighted that camerapersons and photojournalists have been the biggest sufferers since the pandemic struck the country, reports Dawn news.Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan said on Wednesday that people “will have to learn to live with the coronavirus until a vaccine is developed”. Khan was speaking at the inauguration of the Covid-19 Telehealth Portal in Islamabad to help people get medical services on phone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-48-000-pm-imran-khan-says-learn-to-live-with-coronavirus/story-utJw3ACV1NZ6aO3JrDpCHI.html
21-05-2020||World||Pakistan conducts highest number of Covid tests in one day as cases cross 48k-mark||Pakistan conducted the highest number of tests per day during the last 24 hours as the coronavirus cases crossed 48,000-mark on Thursday, the health ministry said.Pakistan recorded 2,193 new cases, taking the total number of infections to 48,091. The death toll stands at 1,017 with 32 new fatalities.As many as 15,346 coronavirus tests, the highest in a single day, were conducted in the last 24 hours, health officials said. The authorities have conducted 429,600 tests so far.Sindh reported the maximum number of 18,964 cases, followed by 17,382 in Punjab, 6,815 in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa, 2,968 in Balochistan, 1,235 in Islamabad, 579 in Gilgit-Baltistan and 148 in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir.As many as 14,155 patients have recovered so far, the officials said.The number of daily testing increased after Planning Minister Asad Umar on Tuesday said that 30,000 tests per day would be sufficient for Pakistan to control the spread of the deadly virus.Pakistan is in a position to conduct over 25,000 tests per day, he said, expressing hope that by May-end or early June the country would be able to conduct 30,000 tests per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-conducts-highest-number-of-covid-tests-in-one-day-as-cases-cross-48k-mark/story-nAtMnh8lWiLtejSyQN286N.html
21-05-2020||World||First copies of Gilead’s Covid-19 drug to start selling in Bangladesh||Bangladesh’s Beximco Pharmaceuticals Ltd. said it has become the world’s first company to start selling the generic version of Gilead Sciences Inc.’s antiviral drug on mounting urgency to treat the infection caused by the deadly coronavirus across the developing world.The Dhaka-based Beximco, which counts Norges Bank as one of its investors, will sell remdesivir for about 6,000 taka ($71) a vial to private clinics but will give it free to state-run hospitals treating Covid-19 patients, Rabbur Reza, chief operating officer at the company, said in an interview. A critically ill Covid-19 patient will need at least six vials, he said.Bangladesh can produce generic versions of patented drugs under World Trade Organization provisions that grant least developed countries a waiver from seeking licenses. Remdesivir was cleared by U.S. drug regulator for emergency use in Covid-19 patients, becoming the first medication backed by early clinical data to be made available to fight the novel pathogen.Also Watch | US allows emergency use of antiviral drug remdesivir to treat Covid-19 patients ‘Receiving Queries’“We’re also receiving queries from other countries,” Reza said. “The drug will not be supplied through traditional distribution channels. If some governments need our drug, we’ll export it.”Bangladesh had more than 26,000 infected cases as of Wednesday, while the disease had killed 386, according to data from Johns Hopkins UniversityThe United Nations-backed Medicines Patent Pool, which is helping Gilead find partners, contacted Beximco asking if it was interested in the voluntary licensing for remdesivir, said Reza. Beximco is waiting to hear back, he said.A Gilead representative didn’t respond to an email seeking comment.Gilead has since licensed five companies including Cipla Ltd. and Mylan NV in India and Ferozsons Laboratories Ltd. in Pakistan to make generic versions of the drug and sell in 127 countries.Norway’s Norges Bank, the world’s biggest sovereign fund, controls 3% of Beximco, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Beximco will sell the drug under the brand name bemsivir, according to a statement from the company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/first-copies-of-gilead-s-covid-19-drug-to-start-selling-in-bangladesh/story-ezI0Jh7MRIAsqLRoe0EM7M.html
21-05-2020||World||‘Happy that I’m with her’: Australian woman reunited with dying sister||A woman has tearfully embraced her dying sister in Australia after weeks of bureaucracy wrangling over pandemic travel restrictions.Australia had rejected Christine Archer’s request for permission to fly from New Zealand four times before her story attracted media attention.Her only sister Gail Baker was diagnosed with incurable ovarian cancer in late March after both countries stopped international travel. Baker has perhaps weeks to live.Archer was eventually allowed to fly to Sydney and spent only a week in hotel quarantine before testing negative for the coronavirus. International travelers are usually quarantined for two weeks.Family friends drove the retired nurse 490 kilometers (300 miles) from Sydney to the New South Wales state coastal town of Bowraville.Archer finally hugged her younger sibling in the front yard of Baker’s home on Wednesday. It was their first reunion in six years.“Words can’t explain how I feel, to be honest.” Archer told Australian Broadcasting Corp. in an interview aired on Thursday.“I’m just so happy that I finally got to be here and be with her. The last two weeks have been the hardest or the longest two weeks of my life,” Archer said.Archer was surprised that her persistence paid off. But she is adamant that Australia made the right decision in allowing her to remain with her sister in her final days.“I wondered whether the Australian government had any compassion at all with their rejections,” Archer said.“I honestly don’t know what they were thinking. I know it’s an awful time at the moment with the virus ... but, I mean, there are some things you’ve got to be a bit lenient on and I felt this was one of them,” she said.“I didn’t think I was ever going to see Gail again. That would’ve been the worst thing in the world if that had happened,” she added.Australia’s Department of Home Affairs relented on Archer’s travel application after it allowed the New Zealand Warriors rugby league team to relocate from Auckland in preparation for the Australian football competition restarting next week.The department did not immediately respond on Thursday to a request for an explanation for the change of heart on the sisters’ reunion.New Zealand has largely succeeded in its goal of eliminating the virus. It has reported no new infections over the past four days and most of the people who contracted the virus have recovered. About 1,500 people have been reported as having the virus including 21 who died.Australia has had similar success in slowing the virus spread although New South Wales remains the worst-affected state. Australia expects New Zealand will become the first international destination with which regular passenger travel will resume because of the low risk of infection.Australia has recorded 7,079 virus cases and 100 deaths. Australia’s population is five times larger than New Zealand’s.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/happy-that-i-m-with-her-australian-woman-reunited-with-dying-sister/story-ebg48enudADAVQA7xakQON.html
21-05-2020||World||Trump says his hydroxychloroquine regimen finishes in ‘day or two’||US President Donald Trump has said that the regimen of antimalarial drug hydroxychloroquine that he is taking to ward off the coronavirus will finish in the next day or two.Trump disclosed on Tuesday that he was taking the drug despite medical warnings about potential serious side effects and questions about its effectiveness in preventing the coronavirus. “I think the regimen finishes in a day or two,” Trump told reporters at the White House on Wednesday when asked how long he will continue to take the antimalarial drug. White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany defended the president’s taking of the drug as a preventive measure against the coronavirus pandemic.“Hydroxychloroquine has been a drug that has been in use for 65 years for lupus, arthritis, and malaria. It has a very good safety profile. But as with any drug and as with any prescription, it should be given by a doctor to a patient in that context. So no one should be taking this without a prescription from their doctor,” she said.Henry Ford Hospital is doing a study on this now where 3,000 frontline workers will be taking hydroxychloroquine to look at its use as a prophylactic.“I believe there is a few hundred or 190 workers in Tampa General Hospital. So, this is being used by some,” she said in response to a question.McEnany said there was a lot of apoplectic coverage of hydroxychloroquine.“You had Jimmy Kimmel saying the President is, quote, ‘trying to kill himself by taking it’. You had Joe Scarborough saying, quote, ‘This will kill you’. Neil Cavuto saying, ‘What have you got to lose? One thing you have to lose are lives’. And you had Chris Cuomo saying, ‘The President knows that hydroxychloroquine is not supported by science. He knows it has been flagged by his own people and he’s using it’,” she said.“Well, Cuomo mocked the President for this. And interestingly, I found this out just before coming here that Hydroxychloroquine, of course, is an FDA-approved medication with a long-proven track record for safety. And it turns out that Chris Cuomo took a less safe version of it called quinine, which the FDA removed from the market in 2006 because of its serious side effects, including death. So, really interesting to have that criticism of the President,” McEnany said.There are several studies that have been brought up that the President has actually mentioned, she noted.There was a French study involving more than 1,000 patients that found that the vast majority had “good clinical outcomes.” And by the vast majority, that was more than 90 per cent, she said. Then there was an Italian study of more than 65,000 patients that demonstrated only 20 tested positive of those who are taking it prophylactically. And a South Korea study, as well. So there are several studies, she said.“And if you’re someone out there - and this is a safe drug to use - and your doctor - importantly to underscore that - and your doctor prescribes it for your use as a prophylaxis or after coming into contact with Covid, then it’s something you should take if it’s prescribed by the doctor and that’s your personal medical choice,” McEnany said. Hydroxychloroquine sulfate was first synthesised in 1946 and is in a class of medications historically used to treat and prevent malaria. It is approved by the US Food and Drug Administration to treat malaria, rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, childhood arthritis, and other autoimmune diseases. The drug is not FDA-approved for the treatment of Covid-19 but it has been identified as a possible treatment for the infection and the US government has requested its immediate availability.Trump has called hydroxychloroquine a “game-changer” drug in the fight against the coronavirus.After Trump’s repeated touting of hydroxychloroquine as a “game changer” cure for the virus, the FDA issued an advisory warning that the drug has not been “shown to be safe and effective for treating or preventing Covid-19.” The Trump Administration has bought millions of doses of hydroxychloroquine and stockpiled it. India, which is one of the major manufactures of the drug, has sent several millions of doses to the US as part of its humanitarian gesture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-says-his-hydroxychloroquine-regimen-finishes-in-day-or-two/story-Mc5J9lnCdCEgLZO2gvEvRI.html
21-05-2020||World||WHO reports biggest single-day jump in global Covid-19 cases, number of infection equals New Zealand’s population||The World Health Organisation (WHO) on Wednesday reported the largest single-day increase in coronavirus cases.The WHO said that 1,06,662 virus cases reported to the UN agency on Tuesday - the most in a single day since the outbreak erupted in the Chinese city of Wuhan in December.As the global death toll topped 3,25,000 and the number of cases crossed five million, WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said he was “very concerned” about the situation in low- and middle-income nations.More than 93,400 deaths have occurred in the United States, the hardest-hit country, according to Johns Hopkins University.The latest million took 12 days, compared to 11 days that it took for the number to go from three to four million infections. Several hard-hit countries such as Italy and Spain have crossed their peaks and are reopening slowly, but officials have cautioned against a second wave.The number of infections is now equivalent to the population of New Zealand.Data suggests that globally, the deadliest stage of the current phase may have passed. On Wednesday, the fatality rate was 14.23 per cent and the recovery rate 85.77 per cent. Such proportions were last seen before March 24.Brazil, Russia and India are emerging as the new hotspots of the disease. The US, where lockdown protocols have been less strict than most nations, added 20,289 cases on Tuesday to remain on top of the list of countries recording new cases.In less than five months since the disease was first reported - local media in China’s Wuhan wrote about a mystery respiratory illness on December 31 - much of the world has now come to terms with a new reality in which social distancing is compulsory, masks are increasingly mandatory and much of leisure activities - travelling, dining out and events such as concerts and sport - may be too dangerous till researchers find a vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-reports-biggest-single-day-jump-in-covid-19-cases-number-of-infection-equals-new-zealand-s-population/story-6DNe1tJI4Swjejqvm8bFWJ.html
21-05-2020||World||Covid-19: New York City to provide free tests, fill-in staff at nursing homes||New York City will offer free coronavirus tests at the city’s 169 nursing homes and will provide staff to replace nursing home employees who test positive for the virus, Mayor Bill de Blasio announced Wednesday.“To me this comes down to, the seniors in our lives, what they have given us, what they mean to us, and what we owe to them, what we owe to them in terms of making sure they are healthy, making sure they are safe, always being there for them,” de Blasio said.The announcement comes after some 3,000 residents of nursing homes in the city have died of Covid-19, including those confirmed whose diagnoses were by lab tests and those for whom Covid-19 was the presumed cause based on symptoms.De Blasio noted that the state is in charge of regulating nursing homes but said the city would start a “two-week blitz” to provide up to 3,000 tests a day to residents and employees at the facilities.He said the city has already sent 240 fill-in staff members to replace nursing home employees who tested positive for the virus and must stay home for two weeks. The city will fulfill additional staffing requests by the end of next week, he said.Additionally, 10 “outbreak response teams” will be available to assist nursing homes and adult care facilities that are experiencing coronavirus flareups, de Blasio said.New York Governor Andrew Cuomo on May 10 ordered twice-weekly testing for all staffers at nursing homes and other adult care facilities. The order doesn’t apply to residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-new-york-city-to-provide-free-tests-fill-in-staff-at-nursing-homes/story-DmDRJaZIY0bYRfmg3aKf8L.html
21-05-2020||World||‘Possibility of sanctions on India remain on table’, says top US diplomat||The possibility of US sanctions on India for buying the multi-billion dollar S-400 missile system from Russia remains on the table, a top American diplomat has said, asserting that New Delhi will have to make a strategic commitment to technologies and platforms.In October 2018, India signed a USD 5 billion deal with Russia to buy five units of the S-400 air defence missile systems, notwithstanding warning from America that going ahead with the contract may invite US sanctions under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA).Last year, India made the first tranche of payment of around USD 800 million to Russia for the missile systems. The S-400 is known as Russia’s most advanced long-range surface-to-air missile defence system.“CAATSA very much remains a policy priority, certainly for Congress, where you’ve seen the very strong demand for implementation and concern over the ability of Russia to gain monies from these military sales that will be used to further undermine the sovereignty of neighbouring countries,” Alice Wells, the outgoing Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asian Affairs, told a Washington DC-based think tank on Wednesday.The US had imposed sanctions on Russia under the stringent CAATSA. The law also provides for punitive action against countries purchasing defence hardware from Russia.“CAATSA has not moved off the table. Instead of approaching it from a Russian prism though, I think the more important conversation to have is at this level of sophistication and as India is moving to adopt the highest level of technological systems, it really becomes a question of which system do they want to operate within,” Wells responded to a question posed by former US Ambassador to India Richard Verma.“How do they want their systems to communicate with one another? It’s not a mix and match arrangement. At certain point, India will have to make sort of a strategic commitment to technologies and platforms and we think we have the best technologies and platforms,” Wells said while participating in a Atlantic Council-organised virtual discussion.At the same time, the top US diplomat for South Asia who will retire on May 22 after a 31-year-long career, referred to the growing defense relationship between the two countries.“We have also made strides in our defense trade, with the bilateral tally now crossing the 20 billion mark after the president’s visit. I think this administration deserves to take credit for making a concerted policy change to offer India our most advanced defense technologies such as armed Unmanned Aerial Vehicle,” she said.“It’s quite remarkable to think that the same missile defense system protecting Washington DC will soon be protecting new Delhi,” Wells said.India’s growing capabilities as a first responder have also been on display in the Indian ocean where it has been delivering COVID relief, often using US-origin platforms to dozens of countries.“Looking ahead, I’m confident that defense trade and interoperability will continue to grow even though COVID-19 related budgetary challenges may slow the pace,” she noted.“One area where I think we can exert even more attention is preparing for 21st century threats, especially as the military implications of artificial intelligence, autonomous devices and quantum computing become more pronounced. I’m proud that our maturing relationship has allowed us to develop a new degree of resiliency and self-confidence and that does allow us to navigate differences on issues like trade sanctions and visas,” she said.Wells also said the US sees India as a global power and understands the country’s global interests which it seeks to protect diplomatically, politically, economically, and militarily.The US and India share a vision for an Indo-Pacific order that respects sovereignty and rule of law.“India seeks to become, you know, in the words of (External Affairs) Minister Jaishankar a leading power, but one that plays by the rules. We in turn recognise that India is successful, (its) rise contributes to an environment in Asia that serves US interests,” she said.“So, this strategic meeting of the minds on the Indo-Pacific vision has greatly enhanced how we’re able to work together, around the world. As saw in what was rebranded as the comprehensive global strategic partnership announced earlier this year during President Trump’s historic visit to India,” Wells said.Jaishankar told US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo in June last year that India will go by its national interest while dealing with other countries, including with sanctions-hit Russia from whom New Delhi is procuring S-400 missile defence systems. The personal rapport between President Trump and Prime Minister Narendra Modi is clear and it has clearly helped the relationship, she said. “Another example is the QUAD, which is well on its way to becoming one of the premier forums of the Indio-Pacific. In just the past year, we held the inaugural QUAD ministerial meeting. We saw QUAD ambassadors meeting regularly in countries across the Pacific and we convened experts meetings on counter terrorism, cyber issues, and maritime security,” she said.The QUAD is also playing a role in their COVID-19 coordination, Wells said.QUAD is an informal strategic dialogue between the US, Japan, Australia and India that is maintained by talks between member countries. PTI LKJ MRJ AKJ MRJ||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/possibility-of-us-sanctions-on-india-remain-on-table-report/story-YUQle0dHxtczHnOLLCVxVO.html
21-05-2020||World||At least 19 million children at imminent risk due to Cyclone Amphan, says UNICEF||At least 19 million children in parts of Bangladesh and India are at “imminent risk” from flash flooding and heavy rain as Cyclone Amphan makes landfall and the state of West Bengal is expected to take a direct hit from the powerful storm, the UN’s children agency has warned.The extremely severe cyclonic storm Amphan made a landfall at Digha in West Bengal and Bangladesh on Wednesday, leaving a trail of destruction. At least three persons were killed in India and seven in Bangladesh.The UNICEF said that at least 19 million children in parts of Bangladesh and India are at “imminent risk from flash flooding, storm surges and heavy rain as Cyclone Amphan makes landfall.” West Bengal, “home to more than 50 million people, including over 16 million children, is expected to take a direct hit from the powerful storm,” the UN agency said in a statement on Wednesday.The UNICEF said it is also very concerned that the Covid-19 could deepen the humanitarian consequences of Cyclone Amphan in both the countries. Evacuees who have moved to crowded temporary shelters would be especially vulnerable to the spread of respiratory diseases like Covid-19, as well as other infections.“We continue to monitor the situation closely,” said UNICEF Regional Director for South Asia Jean Gough.“The safety of children and their families in the areas that will be impacted is a priority and it is good to see that the authorities have planned their urgent response factoring in the on-going Covid-19 pandemic.” Across the region, the UNICEF is “working closely with the governments of Bangladesh and India and stands ready to support humanitarian operations to reach children and families affected by Cyclone Amphan.” Based on the storm’s current trajectory, Cox’s Bazar in Bangladesh – now sheltering over 850,000 Rohingya refugees – is likely to experience high winds and heavy rains which may cause damage to homes and shelters in the refugee camps and Bangladeshi communities. This population is already highly vulnerable and cases of Covid-19 have recently been confirmed in the camps and host communities. The UNICEF said it is working with the Deputy Commissioner’s Office in Cox’s Bazar, the Office of the Refugee Relief and Repatriation Commissioner, and humanitarian partners to help ensure Bangladeshi and Rohingya children and families remain protected. These efforts include raising awareness among Rohingya and Bangladeshi communities on cyclone preparedness and prepositioning emergency life-saving water, sanitation, hygiene and medical supplies to meet immediate humanitarian needs. Meanwhile, UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres’ spokesperson Stephane Dujarric said at the daily press briefing that UN teams on the ground continue to work with the Government of Bangladesh to prepare and support those in need in the wake of the cyclone.“Given the current pandemic, this support includes distributing personal protective equipment, disinfectants and other materials to evacuation shelters. To reduce the person-to-person contact during the delivery of aid, e-cash distributions will be used,” he said adding that the UN along with its partners is mobilising more than 1,700 mobile health teams and preparing for emergency food deliveries.“The Super Cyclone is taking a westerly trajectory towards India, but nearly 8 million people in Bangladesh remain at risk,” he said adding that the Bangladesh government has evacuated more than 2 million people in high-risk areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-least-19-million-children-at-imminent-risk-due-to-cyclone-amphan-says-unicef/story-nWISuVqxXikB6G1jdqQjHO.html
21-05-2020||World||Covid-19 infected elderly patients on ventilators have low survival rates: Report||Most people in their advance age, especially among those who are infected by the novel coronavirus and are suffering from some underlying disease such as hypertension, diabetes, heart disease and obesity, have lower rates of survival, even if they are put on ventilators, a study said.The Washington Post cited the study, published in the Lancet, on Tuesday, saying that most elderly Covid-19 patients put on ventilators at two New York hospitals did not survive.“We had no idea how horrific this would be,” Max O’Donnell, the senior author of the study and a pulmonologist at Columbia University Irving Medical Center, was quoted by the Post.“Definitely not just the flu,” he added.The research focused on 257 critically ill adults, representing a little under one-quarter of the confirmed coronavirus patients admitted at the two hospitals in northern Manhattan between March 2 and April 1. The median age of critically ill patients was 62 years, and two-thirds of them were male.Of the critically ill patients studied, 39 per cent had died by April 28, and 37 per cent remained hospitalised at Milstein and Allen hospitals.No critically ill patients under the age of 30 died at the two hospitals, O’Donnell said, and only a small number of them had to be put on ventilators. But more than 80 per cent of people over 80 who went on a ventilator did not survive, he said.That fact, he said, should be shared with elderly patients and their family members when trying to decide whether to use the invasive procedure to treat severe illness associated with covid-19, the disease caused by the novel coronavirus.“It’s a difficult conversation, obviously,” O’Donnell said further.In the second finding, the study also said that discharge and mortality rates for the most critically ill patients have varied widely among hospital systems.Doctors told the Post that mortality rates -- which range from 50 per cent to 97 per cent in published studies -- probably reflect different regions’ demographics and the varied treatment practices in the early days of the outbreak when doctors were writing and rewriting treatment protocols on the fly almost every day.“The mortality rate [for patients on ventilators] creeps up to 70 per cent when you’re over the age of 70,” Thomas McGinn, deputy physician in chief at Northwell Health, said Tuesday, told the Lancet.“If your mom’s 85 and not well, they should know what the potential is for surviving before they have a ventilator placed,” he added.The study further appeared to confirm associations between a patient’s risk of death and markers for inflammation and coagulation in laboratory analyses of their blood samples. Doctors have been reporting in recent months that some covid-19 patients are suffering from clots that can lead to strokes or respiratory arrest.The obesity rate is among the striking features of the new research. Among critically ill patients under the age of 50 who were admitted to the hospitals, 71 per cent were obese.Harlan Krumholz, a professor of medicine at Yale School of Medicine, said the Lancet study “gives a perspective on the devastating nature” of covid-19, and “should give pause to anyone who wants to dismiss SARS-CoV-2 as less than a major threat to health.”Covid cases globally surpassed 5 million on Wednesday, with Latin America overtaking the United States and Europe in the past week to report the largest portion of new daily cases globally.Latin America accounted for around a third of the 91,000 cases reported earlier this week. Europe and the United States each accounted for just over 20 per cent, representing a new phase in the virus’ spread, which initially peaked in China in February, before large-scale outbreaks followed in Europe and the United States.A large number of those new cases came from Brazil, which recently surpassed Germany, France and the United Kingdom to report the third-largest novel virus outbreak, behind the United States and Russia, across the globe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-infected-elderly-patients-on-ventilators-have-low-survival-rates-report/story-rgC5Qj43EZGmyNiYPxPUQO.html
21-05-2020||World||Health of 7.8 billion people stuck in a dangerous place between China and Trump||In mid-February, an international team of medical experts converged on Beijing to learn more about the novel coronavirus. Dispatched by the World Health Organization after delicate talks with the Chinese government about its composition and agenda, it included some of the brightest lights in epidemiology and virology, affiliated with institutions including the National Institutes of Health, the University of Hong Kong, and Germany’s national infectious-disease center. They would be accompanied by a group of Chinese scientists, and would be responsible for producing a joint report on the nature of the virus and how it was spreading within the world’s most populous country.On the first day of the trip, the non-Chinese members gathered to discuss their so-called terms of reference — the subjects they intended to learn more about as they visited hospitals and research institutions. It was Feb. 16, a little over a week after Li Wenliang, the Wuhan doctor who was reprimanded by local officials when he tried to warn colleagues that a dangerous new pathogen was on the loose, had succumbed to the virus himself. Li’s death was huge news in China, prompting an outpouring of rage on social media and wide international coverage. But whether warnings had been suppressed in Wuhan — then the virus epicenter — during the early days of the outbreak would not be part of the team’s brief. “It was not going to be helpful,” Dale Fisher, an infectious-disease specialist at the National University of Singapore who was part of the group, said in an interview. “Our mission really needed to be about collecting technical information and informing the rest of the world. The terms of reference reflected the fact that we wanted very much to look forward, not focus on the past.”While that decision undoubtedly made sense for the scientists, it was also an example of why, at a time when the WHO is trying to coordinate the response to the worst pandemic in a century, it faces an unprecedented political challenge — rooted in concerns about its relationship with China. The Trump administration ramped up its attack on the organization this week, threatening to permanently cut its funding and reconsider US membership if the WHO doesn’t enact a sweeping overhaul. While those demands look like an attempt to distract from the US’s own failures in containing the coronavirus, the White House isn’t alone in raising concerns: Australia and Canada also called for inquiries into the origins of the pandemic and the WHO’s response to it.The WHO’s international governing body this week approved plans for an independent review of the response to the pandemic, including the organization’s role. Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, a former Ethiopian health official and the first non-physician to hold the job, said he welcomed the scrutiny.Even as Trump threatened the WHO, President Xi Jinping of China — which has drastically expanded its influence over multilateral agencies in tandem with its economic rise — declared his support for the agency. In a speech Monday, he pledged $2 billion over two years to help fight the virus and said China would make any vaccine universally available once it’s developed.While its name might imply the WHO provides care, its key function, particularly in outbreaks, is to deliver information — learning as much as it can about what’s happening on the ground and guiding the rest of the world on how to react. But its critics question whether, in the early weeks of the coronavirus pandemic, that mission was compromised by excessive deference to what Beijing wanted the world to hear. If true, it would be a symptom of a larger, well-recognized issue: that the WHO has little room to maneuver without the approval of member states.There’s no question the group does an immense volume of invaluable work. Its curriculum vitae includes a long list of successes, from the virtual eradication of polio to the successful containment, in 2003, of severe acute respiratory syndrome. In the current crisis, the WHO is organizing efforts to supply developing countries with protective gear and working with partners including the European Commission to fast-track vaccine and drug development. Nor should scrutiny of its actions on Covid-19 excuse the shortcomings of countries like the US and the U.K. in preparing for the virus. But in a world that will, for the foreseeable future, be more alert than ever to the threat of infectious disease, some experts are calling for a review of the WHO’s powers and protocols.“Deference to the sovereignty of one nation can’t be allowed to put every other nation at risk,” said Thomas Bollyky, director of the global health program at the Council on Foreign Relations and a former negotiator on medical issues for the US government. “Either the WHO needs to be given additional authority and empowered to act more aggressively and proactively on outbreaks, or we’ll have to find some other entity that is set up to do that.” But options to improve the institution’s approach to controlling epidemics should be exhausted before considering anything new, he said.The WHO’s origins date nearly to the founding of the United Nations and the broader postwar order. The preamble to its 1948 constitution set out a guiding ethos: “The enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of health is one of the fundamental rights of every human being.” It continued: “The health of all peoples is fundamental to the attainment of peace and security.”That sweeping mission statement led the agency to take on a huge range of challenges, from promoting maternal health and birth control to immunization and aiding refugees. For most of its early history the organization’s role was largely advisory, in keeping with its legal basis: officially, the WHO is the bureaucratic arm of the World Health Assembly, a global parliament of UN members devoted to health issues. The key exception was smallpox, in which the organization played a key role in coordinating the effort to eliminate a devastating illness that had been a scourge of human populations since at least the days of ancient Egypt.Events in the 1990s, though, showed the dangers posed by newer, less-understood infections in a rapidly globalizing world. A 1995 outbreak of Ebola in Kikwit, a city in what’s now the Democratic Republic of Congo, sickened hundreds of people, ultimately killing about 80% of them. With help from the WHO and other agencies the virus was contained, but the potential for more deadly epidemics was clear, and the agency began gradually taking on a more muscular role. In 2000, it set up the Global Outbreak Alert and Response Network, a consortium of health institutions that would track emerging diseases. And it soon had a chance to act more aggressively. When SARS emerged in 2002 in southern China, the first reaction of the government in Beijing was to attempt a cover-up, suppressing news of the disease and refusing to inform the WHO. It only learned of the flare-up months after it began, after an emailed tip-off describing a contagious disease that had left more than 100 people dead in Guangdong Province in the space of a week.  By then, SARS was spreading in Hong Kong, moving from there to Toronto, which would eventually have the highest number of cases outside Asia.The WHO’s director-general at the time, the former Norwegian Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland, issued what was by UN standards a scathing critique of China’s behavior, saying it would “have been definitely helpful if the international expertise and WHO had been able to help at an earlier stage.” She also issued the WHO’s first-ever travel advisories, urging the postponement of trips to parts of China as well as Toronto.SARS, which was contained largely to a few places and killed fewer than 1,000 people, ended up being a public-health success story, an example of how decisive action could prevent a novel disease from becoming an economy-shattering epidemic. But a 2005 attempt to give the WHO more robust powers — for example, to formally sanction countries that failed to report outbreaks — fell short of a true overhaul. Member states simply didn’t want to hand it that kind of tool. And if the WHO was going to continue to serve as the world’s public-health police force, it would have to do so on a shoestring. So-called assessed contributions — bills sent automatically to its members — cover less than 20% of its budget, with the rest raised on a voluntary basis from national governments and organizations like the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention spend considerably more annually; so does the Cleveland Clinic.Another Ebola outbreak, the explosion of infections in West Africa that began in 2014, showed the WHO’s limitations. The virus had been raging across Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Guinea for more than half a year when the WHO declared it a “public health emergency of international concern,” or PHEIC, its highest alert level. Margaret Chan, then the director-general, acknowledged that she had only grasped the severity of the epidemic once it was well underway — thanks to a deputy, Bruce Aylward, sending an email that urged her to make it a priority. The WHO’s response was so sluggish that World Bank President Jim Yong Kim suggested the world needed a new, dedicated disease-response corps. In the end, the most effective international response was arguably that of President Barack Obama, who mobilized the CDC and the US Agency for International Development, supported by thousands of elite troops, to help bring the virus gradually under control. More than 11,000 people died. Chan conceded that the WHO had fallen short. “We responded, but our response may not have matched the scale of the outbreak,” she told Bloomberg News at the time.At least in the early stages of the pandemic, there was nothing unprecedented about the novel coronavirus. A flu-like virus emerging in a provincial part of China and jumping to humans — possibly from bats, via another animal — is a scenario so textbook that it formed part of the plot of the film Contagion. It’s not yet clear when the virus first emerged, but as it began to take hold in Wuhan in December, China’s reaction was different from that during SARS, at least outwardly. Authorities in the city alerted the WHO on New Year’s Eve to a cluster of patients who were suffering from pneumonia of an unknown cause, and the agency activated its emergency-response capabilities the next day. “There were not weeks of central cover-up in Beijing, although local government obviously took too long to report seriously” that the disease was spreading, Brundtland said in an email. And China shared the genetic sequence of the virus on Jan. 12, allowing scientists elsewhere to develop their own tests and begin vaccine research.Read More: Behind the Global Race to Contain China’s Killer BugChina’s transparency was still far from complete. For an extended period in mid-January — coinciding with important Communist Party meetings in Wuhan — the city reported zero new cases, a level of containment that was improbable, to say the least. Government-aligned scientists and municipal officials said repeatedly that there was no evidence of human-to-human transmission, even as Chinese social media buzzed with rumors that health-care workers were being infected by the mysterious new illness.On Jan. 14, Maria Van Kerkhove, one of the scientists leading the WHO response, said at a Geneva press conference that human-to-human transmission might be occurring on a limited scale, noting that such infections wouldn’t be surprising given the experience of other respiratory pathogens. But the same day, the WHO’s official Twitter account posted a message that was much less equivocal, and which has since come back to haunt the agency: “Preliminary investigations by the Chinese authorities have found no clear evidence of human-to-human transmission.”The few people from outside mainland China who were able to observe conditions in Wuhan came away skeptical about what they were being told. A pair of Taiwanese infectious-disease specialists made an official visit to Wuhan from Jan. 12 to Jan. 15, where they were briefed by local officials who said human transmission was, at worst, limited. But the fact that there were a number of cases “not related to the wet market” — the Huanan market where the first reported coronavirus cluster was identified — “showed there was more than one source, and community infection could have already happened,” said Chuang Yin-Ching, one of the pair. “These signs alerted us that we should be cautious about the situation in China. So when we came back from the trip, we suggested that we should treat the virus as if there was human infection.”No one from the WHO raised the possibility in public that China might not be providing the full picture. The organization appeared to be “uncritically passing along the information that China was putting forward when a little more distance would have been a good idea,” said J. Stephen Morrison, the director of the Global Health Policy Center at the Center for Strategic & International Studies.WHO officials say that behind closed doors they were pushing China to tell them more, and that many countries have struggled to present accurate data on infections and deaths — often due simply to hospitals being overwhelmed. “Our sole objective is to make sure the right decisions are taken and not that somebody is blamed or not blamed. Sometimes these discussions are very tough, but they are always respectful,” Chief of Staff Bernhard Schwartlander said in an interview. One of the successes of the agency’s approach to China, he said, was that “there were never closed doors. That’s important. For us and diplomacy, the worst is if a door closes.”When China did pivot to treating the coronavirus as a full-blown crisis, it gave the WHO little warning. On the evening of Jan. 22, after a panel of about 20 top advisers had deadlocked about whether to elevate the coronavirus to the highest alert level, a group of WHO officials was in Tedros’s office discussing what to do. Suddenly, according to a person familiar with the situation, a staff member burst in with dramatic news: China had sealed off Wuhan from the rest of the country, the first step in what eventually became a total lockdown of Hubei Province. After a follow-up meeting the next day, Tedros, the director-general, said it wasn’t yet a PHEIC, but had the potential to become one. The committee agreed to reconvene soon.Before then, Tedros had an important meeting to attend. On Jan. 28, he met Xi in Beijing, accompanied on the trip by Schwartlander and Mike Ryan, the head of the emergencies program. While they were there, the WHO received some of its first clear information indicating that the virus was being passed beyond close contacts. That news, however, came not from China but from Germany, which was beginning to observe a cluster of infections in Munich. On the plane back to Switzerland, the WHO group decided to assemble the agency’s top brass to discuss whether it was time to declare a PHEIC. Speaking to reporters after the agency made that determination on Jan. 30, Tedros heaped praise on China’s response, saying it was “beyond words,” and that he left Beijing “in absolutely no doubt about China’s commitment to transparency and to protecting the world’s people.”Didier Houssin, chair of the emergency committee, added that the WHO would closely scrutinize travel restrictions imposed by other countries — to which Xi’s government was bitterly opposed — with a view to asking them to “reconsider this decision.” The list of places doing so would soon include Taiwan, Hong Kong, Australia, and New Zealand, all of which have performed well in containing the pandemic. The US, which imposed a relatively porous travel restriction around the same time, has had a very different experience.China’s commitment to transparency, however, didn’t extend to letting just anyone see its virus response up close. Getting a substantial WHO delegation into the country took more than a week of complex discussions over who would be on the team and what it would do. Schwartlander said that typically before sending a team “you need to convince a country the WHO is coming to help, not to police you. All countries are nervous in these situations.”Led by Aylward, the doctor who delivered the WHO’s Ebola warning in 2014, and Liang Wannian of China’s National Health Commission, the group spent a little over a week on the ground, visiting research facilities and hospitals and speaking to doctors, although only a small subset were permitted to travel to Wuhan. Like Tedros, they came away full of praise for how the virus was being handled. In their report, the group wrote that “China has rolled out perhaps the most ambitious, agile, and aggressive disease containment effort in history,” protecting the world in the process. In addition to lauding the efforts of health professionals and ordinary citizens, they singled out China’s paramount leader. “General Secretary Xi Jinping personally directed the prevention and control work,” the report read.Other countries no longer have to rely on the WHO to tell them about the coronavirus. They now have plenty of cases to study at home — nowhere more so than the US, where the Trump administration’s chaotic response created the conditions for the world’s deadliest outbreak. Some officials are nonetheless asking hard questions about the agency’s performance. Australia’s foreign minister, Marise Payne, said in April that her government shares “some of the concerns the United States have identified in relation to” the WHO, and that it should be one of the subjects, rather than the organizer, of an international inquiry into the origins of the pandemic. Health Minister Greg Hunt complained that “what we saw from some officials in Geneva, we think was a response which didn’t help the world.” Canada’s foreign ministry, for its part, said there was “a critical need for a post-crisis after-action review.”  The independent evaluation of the response to the pandemic, including the WHO’s role, will be launched at “the earliest appropriate moment,” Tedros said. A resolution authorizing the review was approved this week at a meeting of the World Health Assembly.The review is unlikely to resolve tensions with the US, where the White House has made accusing the WHO of mishandling coronavirus a political priority in the run-up to November’s presidential election. It is undoubtedly an outlier — no other country has threatened to cut its WHO funding, nor attacked it in such strident terms — but, as the agency’s largest donor by far and the global hub for health research, it can hardly be ignored. “We want and need strong scientific and strategic partnerships with the US,” said the WHO’s Ryan. “We cherish that relationship.” While Democrats, including presumptive presidential nominee Joe Biden, have largely defended the WHO, that position could be more difficult to sustain if an impression hardens, in Washington and the broader electorate, that it’s too close to Beijing. Tedros did himself no favors in US political circles by suggesting in an April press conference that the government of Taiwan — a bedrock American ally with a deep well of support in both parties, and which is excluded from participating in WHO activities due to Chinese pressure — had refused to disassociate itself from racist attacks against him.The WHO’s recent troubles haven’t detracted from the passionate support it enjoys in public health circles. Despite its limited budget it delivers a vast array of crucial programs, many of them in conflict zones and among the world’s poorest. Developing countries “need the WHO,” said Amadou Alpha Sall, the director of the Institut Pasteur in Dakar, Senegal. “There’s always the possibility of doing better, but in the middle of the storm they’re doing well.”Nor is it clear what a rebooted or replaced WHO would look like. Australia’s prime minister, Scott Morrison, has proposed giving the WHO the ability to send teams of experts to investigate disease outbreaks without necessarily getting permission first, akin to how weapons inspectors operate. That idea, or related suggestions that the WHO should have the ability to levy sanctions on member states — a power enjoyed by the World Trade Organization — would undoubtedly prove the most difficult to implement. Even the governments most supportive of transforming the WHO might balk at giving it the power to override them.Schwartlander urged member states to proceed with such reforms cautiously. “It’s easy in a moment of frustration to say we need to throw all of this out and do something completely different,” he said. “But it may come at huge cost because it also may cut down on the opportunity for consensus.”Other proposed reforms are probably more attainable. Health experts have long complained about the agency’s practice of appointing regional heads by secret ballots among member states, arguing this can make them too beholden to the governments that elected them. It might also be possible to revamp the WHO budget to make it less dependent on voluntary contributions, providing more certainty about future resources.Still, countries looking for a revamped WHO — by itself — to save them from the impact of the next pandemic may be looking in the wrong place. In the still-evolving coronavirus crisis, the US, along with dozens of other governments, could in retrospect have acted faster or more decisively.Seeking scapegoats, whether in Geneva or China, is missing the point, said Marie-Paule Kieny, a former WHO official and now a research director at Inserm, a French health-science institute. “How long did it take the US government to see, to understand, and to report that there was a problem?” she asked. “The Chinese government messed up in the early weeks,” but since then “they have shared enormously, and unfortunately the other countries didn’t take this seriously, because they didn’t think it would come to them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/health-of-7-8-billion-people-stuck-in-a-dangerous-place-between-china-and-trump/story-ar18XWUMbqZ4GJNoxlUhNN.html
21-05-2020||World||China focused on jobs as national legislature meets||As job losses surge, China is joining the United States and other governments in rolling out stimulus spending to revive its virus-battered economy.How much is Beijing ready to spend? Companies and the public are looking to the meeting of the ceremonial national legislature starting Friday for details. One closely watched indicator: Whether Beijing will skip for the first time setting an economic growth target given uncertainties over what lies ahead.China, where the coronavirus pandemic began in December, was the first economy to start reopening in March. But while the United States, Japan and Europe launched or debated plans for a flood of spending to shore up economic activity, the ruling Communist Party held back and focused instead on reopening factories.Now, facing a politically perilous wave of tens of millions of jobs lost, President Xi Jinping’s government is promising to prop up employment to support the economy’s main growth engine — consumer spending.“We see huge unemployment pressure, and we need to see sizable stimulus to keep people employed,” said Citigroup economist Li-Gang Liu.Adding to that pressure is the re-escalation of a tariff war with Washington over Beijing’s technology ambitions and trade surplus. The two sides signed a truce in January but President Donald Trump says he might back out if China doesn’t buy more American farm products and other exports.The gathering of the 3,000-plus delegates to the ceremonial National People’s Congress, delayed from March, is the year’s highest-profile political event but does little lawmaking work. Instead, Chinese leaders use the meeting to showcase policy decisions already made by the ruling party about health, education, aid to farmers and other issues.The focus when Premier Li Keqiang announces annual spending plans on Friday will be on jobs after the economy shrank 6.8% in the first quarter, its worst performance since at least the mid-1960s.Fitch Ratings estimates as many as 30% of China’s 442 million urban workers — or more than 130 million people — lost their jobs at least temporarily. Citigroup says as many as 25 million jobs might disappear for good this year.Tian Zhanhua, a migrant worker from Hebei province, lost his position as a salesman for a printing company in Beijing.Tian earned as much as 8,000 yuan ($1,100) per month before the outbreak. Now, he goes to a labor market looking for odd jobs that pay 150 to 300 yuan ($21 to $42) a day.“Before the epidemic, I could work two jobs at the same time, but now I can’t find one,” said Tian, who lives in a 6 square meter (60 square foot) room. “I’m living on the brink of starvation.”Finance Minister Liu Kun raised expectations by promising to “ensure employment” with an “active fiscal policy” in a May 14 commentary in the ruling party newspaper People’s Daily.Beijing needs to “firmly guarantee the bottom line” of wages, Liu wrote, giving no details of spending plans.The government could hire more teachers and create low-level jobs in hospitals and other public services, said Citigroup’s Liu, but it can create a limited number of jobs on its own and needs the private sector to soak up most of the unemployed. That includes 9 million new university graduates due to enter the workforce this year.The government is probably “very much concerned,” said Liu.China can afford to borrow and spend if needed because its central government debt is low compared with other major countries. But its leaders have other reasons to move cautiously.Total debt, including borrowing by companies and households, soared so high over the past decade that international rating agencies cut Beijing’s credit rating for government borrowing in 2018. Banks that lent to finance stimulus spending after the 2008 global crisis have a mountain of nonperforming loans.Throwing around too much money also might fuel inflation, which is near a seven-year high after an epidemic of African swine fever disrupted pork supplies last year, causing food costs to spike. That is especially sensitive in a society where the poorest families spend up to half their incomes to feed themselves.So forecasters expect Chinese spending to come in well below the $3 trillion package being debated by the U.S. Congress or Japan’s $1.1 trillion plan.The party’s ultimate goal is to persuade consumers — millions of whom have lost jobs or worry they might — to spend again.City governments have handed out discount vouchers to lure consumers back to restaurants and shopping malls. Despite that, spending in April fell 7.5% from a year earlier while factory output rose 3.9%.The outlook is so uncertain that some economists say Beijing should skip setting a target for economic growth.That target — at least 6% in previous years — has become politically sensitive as growth slowed from the previous decade’s explosive double-digit rates.This year, why pick a target when even 4% looks out of reach and so little is known about what will happen to China’s trading partners, Ma Jun, an adviser to the central bank, told the state newspaper Economic Daily.Private sector forecasts range from no growth to under 3%.“The final economic impact will be mainly determined by the development of the epidemic in Europe and the United States,” Ma said.Still, Citigroup’s Liu argues Beijing needs to set a target, even a low one, to motivate local officials to promote business development.Without a target, “they don’t have to try hard,” said Liu. “But the result could be huge unemployment and social instability.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-focused-on-jobs-as-national-legislature-meets/story-oOH0kxYOF92hxkVxGB2h9N.html
21-05-2020||World||Iraqi intelligence captures potential successor of al-Baghdadi: Report||Iraqi intelligence has arrested Abdulnasser al-Qirdash, the potential successor of Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, former leader of the dreaded terrorist organisation ISIS, according to multiple reports.“Today, the terrorist named Abdulnasser al-Qirdash, the candidate to succeed the criminal al-Baghdadi, was arrested. [The arrest] came after accurate intelligence,” the statement from the Iraqi National Intelligence Service read, according to a report in Al-Arabiya.The latest raid that led to the capture and arrest of al-Qirdash comes a month after Mustafa al-Kadhimi, Iraq’s former intelligence chief, became the country’s prime minister, reported the outlet.Baghdadi was killed in the Idlib province of northwestern Syria in an operation by the US in October last year.The Islamic State had last year confirmed the death of its leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, days after US President Donald Trump said that the terrorist blew himself up during a raid by the American military.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iraqi-intelligence-captures-potential-successor-of-al-baghdadi-report/story-8gLcEHorHFbBTo9VCofHWN.html
21-05-2020||World||South Africa records first neonatal Covid-19 death, toll jumps to 339||South Africa recorded its first neonatal coronavirus death on Wednesday, as the death toll jumped by 27 to 339, the health ministry said.The two-day old baby was born prematurely and had lung difficulties which required ventilation support immediately after birth, Health minister Zweli Mkhize said in a statement.“The mother had tested positive for Covid-19 and the child subsequently tested positive for Covid-19 as well. It is important to appreciate the complexities of the underlying condition of prematurity,” he said.South Africa, which has the highest coronavirus infections in Africa, reported 803 new cases in a 24-hour cycle, taking the total to 18,003 while 8,950 people have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-africa-records-first-neonatal-covid-19-death-toll-jumps-to-339/story-6JMGsw0oJF7Prs1KEZcZdP.html
21-05-2020||World||In Washington, signs of Covid-19 lockdown fraying||Rico Montego, 22, is out and about in Washington on his daily routine, chatting with friends on a street corner in the east of the city, despite the strict stay-at-home orders.Compliance with the lockdown -- now in its eighth week -- has been patchy across the American capital, with concern focused on casual social gatherings in neighborhoods hardest hit by the coronavirus pandemic.Montego lives in Trinidad, a small, ethnically-mixed residential area that has recorded over 230 cases of coronavirus, among the highest per capita in the city.According to official data, 77 percent of the 407 deaths in Washington have been black, revealing the disproportionate toll on African-Americans as only about 46 percent of residents are black.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“It is very difficult to stay home all day with nothing to do,” said Montego.“I was working for a big security company until they stopped our shifts. They say we will go back, but I have no money coming in.“I haven’t got my stimulus check -- the system is all backed up. We are just waiting around.”A few blocks away, Barry Wright, 61, and about eight other men gathered on a sidewalk to eat lunch distributed by a local school.“We are here every day. We all grew up nearby,” he said.The group are theoretically breaking the city’s lockdown rules, and could face $5,000 fines or even 90 days in jail, but Wright said the police don’t interfere.“They know us and stop to chat, asking us if we’re OK and giving us water bottles,” he said.Unequal cityAs the United States battles to quell the pandemic that claimed more than 93,000 deaths nationwide so far, the impact has underlined Washington’s sharp social and economic disparities.The capital has boomed in recent years, but poverty, unemployment and inadequate public services remain widespread in some of its black-majority neighborhoods.Experts say African-Americans are suffering more from Covid-19 due to higher housing density, poor health and medical care, and more often having to take public transport to work.“This is overwhelming for a lot of people. All we can do is follow the guidance on staying under lockdown,” said Brian Hamilton, pastor of the Westminster Presbyterian Church in the city’s southwest.“But many people are getting close together, many are not social distancing, and some young men don’t want to wear masks.“Some just don’t have masks, others just won’t do it. Groups hang around -- it does happen a lot.”Deaths from coronavirus have plateaued in recent weeks in Washington, rather than fallen as they have in former hotspots such as New York and New Orleans.City authorities could be facing a long battle, but they may soon follow other parts of the US by easing the lockdown.Mayor Muriel Bowser said she could unveil a phased reopening plan this week despite the emergency stay-at-home order being extended to June 8.Recent warm spring weekends have encouraged some residents to venture outside to socialize, with some skate parks attracting large crowds, and the upcoming Memorial Day holiday is set to further test the restrictions.Rhonda Hamilton, 43, is an advisory neighborhood commissioner -- an elected local volunteer -- who represents about 2,000 people in the Buzzard Point district next to the Anacostia River.“People say ‘we saw six or seven young people together’ but I say those youngsters are like a family -- always together and drawing strength from their own peer group.“A lot of African-American culture is based on people connecting, so people continue to check on one another, to have conversations, to make sure meals are distributed,” Hamilton said.“Social distancing has changed how we reach out to each other but, even in the midst of the pandemic, those cultural relationships and community connections continue.“This has been a total readjustment of how we live.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-washington-signs-of-covid-19-lockdown-fraying/story-UMrQONjM7mVeRftNvNna6I.html
21-05-2020||World||50-day lockdown, relaxation for 30 days: British scientists suggest new model to beat Covid-19||The scientists in Britain have suggested staggered lockdown periods to check the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19. They say there should be system of working for 30 days and then living under lockdown for another 50 days.This cycle is the only way we can get break the chain of infection, the scientists said. They want this arrangement to be in place till 2022.The scientists have based their results on data from 16 countries. The study has been reported by Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan.The study has been conducted by a group of scientists at the Cambridge University and published in the European Joruanl of Epidemology. Dr Rajiv Chaudhary, who led the research, said that following this routine will help save jobs. It will also help in mitigating financial instability and social interruption.The researchers, however, say that testing, contact tracing and isolation should continue.The researchers have presented three potential scenarios to back their claim. The first, as suggested by these scientists, will help in reducing the spread of the infection. And it will end the pandemic in 18 days, the researchers have claimed. The second scenario talks about taking no steps at all. This will lead to death of 78 lakh people and the pandemic ill last for 200 days.The third scenario presented by the researchers talks about giving relaxations during the lockdown for 50 days and then opening up for 30 days. This, they say, will lead to increase in cases going to the intensive care and result in death of 35 lakh people.The number of Covid-19 cases crossed five million on Wednesday as the pandemic continued to devastate the globe where close to 3,25,000 people have now died due to it and millions more find themselves unemployed and at the risk of poverty.The latest million took 12 days, compared to 11 days that it took for the number to go from three to four million infections. Several hard-hit countries such as Italy and Spain have crossed their peaks and are reopening slowly, but officials have cautioned against a second wave.The number of infections is now equivalent to the population of New Zealand.Brazil, Russia and India are emerging as the new hot spots while the US remains on top of the list of countries adding new cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/50-day-lockdown-relaxation-for-30-days-british-scientists-suggest-new-model-to-beat-covid-19/story-Gv4sUc4rkMGALcJyCGi1nJ.html
21-05-2020||World||Trump threatens funds for states easing voting in pandemic||President Donald Trump on Wednesday threatened to hold up federal funds for two election battleground states that are trying to make it easier and safer to vote during the coronavirus pandemic. He backed away from that threat but stuck with his unsupported claim that widespread voting by mail promotes “a lot of illegality.”The president targeted Michigan with a false tweet on its voting plans and also went after Nevada in the latest — and the most confused — episode in his campaign against voting by mail. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends it as a safe option during the pandemic.Trump has said repeatedly, without evidence, that mailed ballots allow widespread fraud and has worried publicly that wide availability could lead so many people to vote that Republicans would lose in November. GOP allies have fought changes to voting in court and opposed funding to expand mail-in voting in Congress.Wednesday marked the first time Trump has tried to use federal aid money to beat it back.Trump began by going after Michigan, misstating Democratic Secretary of State Jocelyn Benson’s announcement that she would send applications for absentee ballots to every voter in the state. Though Republican secretaries of state have taken this step elsewhere, Trump pounced on the move in a state key to his reelection hopes.“Michigan sends absentee ballots to 7.7 million people ahead of Primaries and the General Election,” Trump tweeted Wednesday morning. That brought strong criticism from Democrats in Michigan and elsewhere, pointing out that the state was sending applications, not actual ballots, an error the president corrected in a subsequent tweet six hours later. He stuck with the rest of his tweet: “This was done illegally and without authorization by a rogue Secretary of State. I will ask to hold up funding to Michigan if they want to go down this Voter Fraud path!”Trump later tweeted a similar threat to pull back funds from Nevada, which has sent ballots to voters for its June 9 state primary. A federal judge recently cleared Nevada’s decision to mail ballots, which were sent by the Republican secretary of state.It was not clear exactly what funds Trump was referencing, but the states are paying for the voting changes with federal aid intended to support elections during the pandemic. By Wednesday evening, Trump told reporters he had spoken with Democratic Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer and did not think funding would have to be cut.“I don’t think it’s going to be necessary,” he said, adding that he stood by his opposition to mail voting. “Voting is an honor. It shouldn’t be something where they send you a pile of stuff and you send it back.”“If people mail in ballots, there’s a lot of illegality,” he said at the White House.Trump himself has requested an absentee ballot to vote in Florida.Trump did not threaten Republican-dominated states that are doing the same thing as Michigan. West Virginia Gov. Jim Justice, an ally of the president, said he’s not concerned about Trump’s threats even though his administration approved mailing absentee ballot applications to all registered voters in the state.“I can’t imagine that the president is going to withhold funding in any way to West Virginia; that’s not going to happen,” Justice told reporters.Trump’s tweets and statements came the day before he is slated to visit Michigan to tour Ford’s ventilator assembly plant in Ypsilanti. The state is one of three Rust Belt states that helped deliver his 2016 victory. In recent months, it has become a national hot spot for the coronavirus and watched its economy collapse, both factors contributing to what T rump’s advisers see as a shift toward Democrats.The president’s comments appeared to reflect growing GOP concerns that Democrats’ swift embrace of mail-in voting will give them an edge in November. Some key Democratic areas have moved to make it easier for voters to request ballots, while Republican areas have not. And even though Trump’s campaign encourages absentee voting, along with several state Republican Party officials, GOP voters, like Trump, have expressed growing skepticism.On Monday, before Trump’s Twitter threat, the Republican National Committee sought to clarify its position on vote by mail, arguing that the party opposes mailing ballots to every voter, as Nevada has done, but does not oppose mailing applications, as Michigan did.“I don’t really have an issue with absentee requests forms being sent to voters,” RNC Chair Ronna McDaniel said.On Wednesday, Trump’s threats scrambled that distinction.Republicans’ claims that mailing ballots to all voters creates widespread fraud is not backed up by evidence from the five states that use this method. None has had significant voter fraud cases. Trump himself has voted absentee in previous elections.The White House referred questions about the president’s tweets to Trump’s reelection campaign. Trump campaign spokesman Tim Murtaugh asserted “there is no statutory authority for the secretary of state in Michigan to send absentee ballot applications to all voters” — an argument some Michigan Republicans have also made. Murtaugh did not address whether Republican secretaries of state elsewhere were similarly constrained.The GOP-controlled U.S. Senate has so far stopped Democrats from mandating expanded mail and early voting as part of coronavirus relief bills, arguing that states should make decisions on their own election systems. The battle has largely moved to the courts, with Democrats filing at least 17 lawsuits to force states to expand their programs.Hours after Trump tweeted Wednesday, he sent another message to Michigan. The state is grappling with severe flooding in one county after two dams failed, forcing thousands to evacuate.Three hours after threatening to hold up federal funding to the state, Trump tweeted: “My team is closely monitoring the flooding in Central Michigan – Stay SAFE and listen to local officials. Our brave First Responders are once again stepping up to serve their fellow citizens, THANK YOU!”___Riccardi reported from Denver. Associated Press writers David Eggert in Lansing, Mich., and Darlene Superville in Washington contributed to this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-threatens-funds-for-states-easing-voting-in-pandemic/story-cIPKNz7s5qrjLXUdBiaVoO.html
21-05-2020||World||‘It all comes from the top’: Trump sharpens attack on China on Covid-19||US President Donald Trump lashed out at China again for the coronavirus crisis, accusing Beijing of trying to deflect the pain and carnage that their country spread throughout the world.“Spokesman speaks stupidly on behalf of China, trying desperately to deflect the pain and carnage that their country spread throughout the world. Its disinformation and propaganda attack on the United States and Europe is a disgrace. It all comes from the top. They could have easily stopped the plague, but they didn’t!” Trump said on Twitter. ....It all comes from the top. They could have easily stopped the plague, but they didn’t!He also took a swipe at his rival in the November presidential election, Joe Biden.“China is on a massive disinformation campaign because they are desperate to have Sleepy Joe Biden win the presidential race so they can continue to rip-off the United States, as they have done for decades, until I came along!” he said in another tweet.Last week, Trump had said that he was very disappointed in China over its failure to contain the novel coronavirus, saying the worldwide pandemic cast a pall over his US-China trade deal.“They should have never let this happen. So I make a great trade deal and now I say this doesn’t feel the same to me. The ink was barely dry and the plague came over. And it doesn’t feel the same to me,” Trump said in an interview.Trump has been targeting China for spreading the virus. Earlier this month, Trump was asked at a press conference if he had seen evidence that gave him a “high degree of confidence” that the virus came from the Wuhan Institute of Virology, and replied that he had, although he declined to give specifics.The Chinese state-backed institute has, however, dismissed allegations that the virus originated there. Most experts believe the virus originated in a Wuhan market selling wildlife and jumped from animals to people.A crucial meeting of the World Health organisation (WHO) last week discussed a resolution backed by more than 100 countries that sought probe into the source of the outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/it-all-comes-from-the-top-trump-sharpens-attack-on-china-on-covid-19/story-kQ9QBV58y3jCMFHN0EZ4QO.html
21-05-2020||World||Australia backs technology in new carbon emissions plan||Australia’s conservative government on Thursday released a fresh plan to tackle climate change, targetting the use of gas, hydrogen, batteries and carbon capture, while avoiding the contentious issue of setting a carbon price.Australia, one of the world’s biggest carbon emitters per capita, has struggled for more than a decade to formulate a long-term plan for a low carbon economy amid a politically charged debate between fossil fuel supporters and opponents.The latest proposal, which the government aims to turn into formal policy by September, is based on driving down energy storage costs to back up wind and solar power, electrifying industrial processes and scaling up hydrogen production.“At its core, this is about technology not taxes. It means reducing emissions, not reducing jobs and the economy,” Energy and Emissions Reduction Minister Angus Taylor said in a statement.Green groups, however, oppose the plan for its continued reliance on fossil fuels, like gas and coal. They, along with mining, energy and other big corporations, have argued for the introduction of a price on carbon to drive green investment.The government, which sees gas- and coal-fired power as needed in the medium term to help back up renewables, is looking to take advantage of Australia’s abundant supply of natural gas.It also wants to develop an electric vehicle strategy, slash the cost of producing hydrogen and find ways to bring down the costs of carbon capture and storage (CCS), which opponents say is an unproven and expensive technology.The so-called technology roadmap is designed to help Australia meet its Paris Climate Accord commitment to cut carbon emissions by between 26% and 28% from 2005 levels by 2030.The oil and gas industry, big energy users and the Clean Energy Council welcomed the proposals, while anti-fossil fuel advocates said the plan was misguided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-backs-technology-in-new-carbon-emissions-plan/story-SFgepSiHf1tzCMZlWqZaEO.html
21-05-2020||World||‘Iran will support any nation or group that fights Israel’: Khamenei||Iran will support any nation or group that fights Israel, Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei said on Wednesday, ahead of this week’s annual observance of Quds (Jerusalem) Day to express support for Palestinians.“We will support and assist any nation or any group anywhere who opposes and fights the Zionist regime, and we do not hesitate to say this,” Khamenei said in a post on his official English-language Twitter account. We will support and assist any nation or any group anywhere who opposes and fights the Zionist regime, and we do not hesitate to say this.#FlyTheFlagIran, Israel’s arch-enemy in the Middle East, has been a key supporter, along with Russia, of President Bashar al-Assad during Syria’s civil war, sending military advisers as well as material and regional Shi’ite militias.Israel, which monitors neighbouring Syria intensively, has carried out hundreds of air strikes in Syria targeting suspected arms and troop movements by Iran and the Lebanese Hezbollah guerrillas that Tehran sponsors.Separately, Khamenei said on Wednesday that Iran’s enmity toward Israel was not the same as hostility toward Jewish people.محو دولت اسرائیل به معنای محو یهودیان نیست. ما با مردم یهود کاری نداریم.<محو اسرائیل> یعنی مردم مسلمان، مسیحی و یهودی #فلسطین، خودشان دولتشان را انتخاب بکنند و بیگانه‌ها و اوباشی مثل نتانیاهو را بیرون کنند.محو اسراییل یعنی این، و این اتفاق خواهد افتاد.“The elimination of the government of Israel does not mean the elimination of Jews. We don’t have an issue with Jewish people,” Khamenei said in a post on his official Farsi-language Twitter account.“‘Elimination of Israel’ means the Muslim, Christian and Jewish people of #Palestine choose their own government themselves and push out foreigners and thugs like [Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin] Netanyahu,” the post added.Khamenei is scheduled to speak on Friday to commemorate Quds Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-will-support-any-nation-or-group-that-fights-israel-khamenei/story-mN1hbxKU8MrmPKy5ppSZGN.html
21-05-2020||World||Graduation ceremonies draw thousands across US despite Covid-19 fears||High schools nationwide have canceled or postponed traditional graduation ceremonies to avoid worsening the spread of the new coronavirus, but some plunged ahead with full-fledged springtime commencement exercises as usual, with tweaks to account for health concerns.Thousands of graduates, parents, siblings and grandparents were invited to a nearly 11,000-seat stadium on Wednesday and Thursday nights in the Birmingham suburb of Hoover, where two high schools — among the largest in Alabama — were organizing traditional commencement exercises despite Covid-19.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageTwo schools in nearby cities held their ceremonies Tuesday, with chairs for more than 540 graduates spread apart across a football field at Thompson High and a keynote address by the state school superintendent. Few wore protective face masks, and seniors hugged and gathered in tight groups for pictures.Dr. Michael Saag, who treats infectious diseases at the University of Alabama at Birmingham, said the coronavirus poses too great a risk for such ceremonies since virus carriers without symptoms could unknowingly infect others.Saag himself became infected in March.“Having had this before, even if you survive it, which most people do, it’s still a pretty harrowing thing to go through,” said Saag, now back at work.School officials in Hoover announced the ceremonies in the city’s open-air baseball stadium, after Gov. Kay Ivey had ended state restrictions on the size of group gatherings, as long as people from different households stay 6 feet (1.8 meters) apart.Hundreds of chairs for graduates were spread across the dirt infield with spectators assigned seats on metal bleachers and in blue stadium seats. Red tape blocked seats to be avoided.Kathy Murphy, the city school superintendent, said the ceremonies will comply with the rules.“All of our students will be celebrated, even those who choose not to come, and we understand that. But we will call their names,” Murphy said in a video posted online.Since Gov. Kay Ivey eased restrictions in recent weeks, cases have risen in parts of Alabama including the capital city, health officials say.Statewide, Alabama has added as many as 350 new cases per day in the past two weeks, and the state’s average number of new cases has continued to climb. It’s unclear how much of the rise is due to increased testing or increased disease. And there are large numbers of Covid-19 patients hospitalized in Montgomery and Mobile, two other major Alabama cities.Schools in California planned virtual graduations after traditional events were canceled, and students at an Illinois school walked across a stage in an otherwise empty auditorium. Some systems delayed ceremonies until summer or split graduating classes into smaller groups for live ceremonies. Former President Barack Obama recorded a video graduation speech for seniors.But Spain Park and Hoover are two of Alabama’s largest, top-ranked state schools. Both are in a heavily populated area, drawing criticism from those who called the ceremonies risky.As a precaution, the graduates are being given face masks and told not to hug friends, exchange high fives or linger afterward. Tickets are limited to four per student, and all present must wear face coverings. Still, the numbers of potential attendees are daunting at a time when sporting events, concerts, and movies are still prohibited because of crowd concerns.Some 390 seniors graduated Wednesday night from Spain Park. Everyone had a mask on while entering the stadium though a few in the audience removed theirs once seated and the ceremony started. The event began orderly with ushers directing family groups to seats at least one row and more than six feet (1.8 meters) apart.The Spain Park graduates, in their black robes and masks, spread out in chairs across the baseball infield. Besides the nearly 400 students, faculty and administrators onfield, there were easily more than 1,500 people in the stands.Another 690 will graduate Thursday from Hoover High, so some 3,450 people could be inside Hoover Metropolitan Stadium.Critics say that even with the rules, huge ceremonies could hasten more coronavirus transmission in metro Birmingham, home to more than 1 million. The city of Hoover, with 85,000 residents, sits astride two counties that have more than 1,770 virus cases combined.Bonnie Kaiser, a 2004 Hoover High graduate who teaches in the Department of Anthropology and Global Health Program at the University of California-San Diego, was among 31 health professionals and system alumni who signed an open letter urging officials to reconsider the ceremonies.“I think the thing is there’s not a way to do it safely even if everyone has perfect behavior ... and we know at a graduation that just will not happen,” Kaiser said.But parents pleased their children could have a traditional graduation flooded the school’s social media feeds with thanks to school officials. Still, some top-ranked students said they were skipping the celebrations.Omar Mohammad, a 17-year-old Spain Park senior, organized a protest Saturday outside the graduation site with a few dozen supporters. He called the ceremony “unsafe and irresponsible.”“All it takes is one asymptomatic person,” Mohammad said. “This isn’t about graduation ... If you get a disease you can spread it.”Murphy, the city superintendent, emphasized the ceremonies are optional.South of Hoover in Alabaster, Thompson High School held a traditional graduation ceremony in its football stadium Tuesday night, limiting it to 2,500 guests, or roughly half the normal capacity, but with no masks required. Senior Jael Janae Johnson thanked God for the event in the opening prayer.“This wouldn’t be possible without your will,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/graduation-ceremonies-draw-thousands-across-us-despite-covid-19-fears/story-i3XLnqqMQWnPykP7FbkeGO.html
21-05-2020||World||WTO to open nominations for next director on June 8||Candidates to succeed Roberto Azevedo as head of the WTO will have one month from June 8 to submit their nominations, the global trade body said following the Brazilian’s surprise resignation.After July 8, candidates will be invited to meet with WTO members, the World Trade Organization said in a statement Wednesday after a decision by its 164 members.The Brazilian last week announced he will step down on August 31, a year before his term ends, despite the Covid-19 pandemic ravaging the global economy.Azevedo said it had been a “personal decision” reached with his family, and stressed that he was not leaving to pursue “political opportunities”.His abrupt departure leaves WTO members with less than three months to appoint a successor, a process which usually takes nine months.Many observers are betting on a candidate from Africa -- and against a WTO insider.Azevedo’s departure comes at a bad time with the WTO already in crisis before the pandemic hit, dealing with raging trade wars and scathing criticism by the United States under President Donald Trump, who has pushed for reforms of the Geneva-based body.The procedure for appointing the director-general of the WTO is not an election but a process of elimination carried out in consultation with members.Azevedo, who in 2013 succeeded Frenchman Pascal Lamy, was selected after three elimination stages.On Azevedo’s watch, WTO members concluded their first-ever multilateral agreement when they reached a deal in Bali in late 2013 on overhauling global customs procedures.But since his second term began in 2017, countries have failed to reach further multilateral agreements, and the WTO has struggled to deal with a US administration openly hostile to its multilateral approach.The WTO was also forced to put its dispute settlement appeal system on ice last December after Washington blocked the appointment of new judges, preventing it from reaching a three-judge quorum.apo/lpt/mtp/jah||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wto-to-open-nominations-for-next-director-on-june-8/story-637UxCi6afAT7SCtk2kAAP.html
21-05-2020||World||Mexico City will begin gradual reopening June 1, says Mayor||Even as Mexico saw its largest one-day death toll, Mexico City announced Wednesday it will begin a gradual reopening June 1.The nationwide death toll rose by 424 on Wednesday to 6,090, well above last week’s record of 353 deaths reported in one day. Total confirmed infections nationwide grew to 56,594, though the real number is probably several times higher because Mexico performs so little testing.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageWith about 9 million residents, the capital is one of the world’s largest cities. Authorities predicted the pandemic is nearing its peak in Mexico City, but hospitals in the capital are already about three-quarters full. As of Tuesday night, Mexico City reported more than 15,000 confirmed coronavirus infections and nearly 1,500 deaths.Despite it all, Mayor Claudia Sheinbaum said Mexico City will begin a gradual reopening June 1, when some sectors of the economy would be allowed to resume operations.While Sheinbaum called on residents to continue taking social distancing measures through June 15, impatience with being shut up at home, household financial demands and a lack of any enforcement already drew more and more people back into the streets in recent weeks.More customers clustered at the city’s famous street food stands and traffic has picked up. The city never shut down its subway system, which millions depend on for transportation.Sheinbaum’s reopening plan included some of the industries that the federal government already approved to return to work like construction, but also adds bicycle sales and beer production.The mayor said bike shops are being exempted because she wants to promote bicycle use as a way to help improve the health of city residents. As elsewhere around the world, Mexico’s Covid-19 dead have included a high percentage of people suffering from ailments such as diabetes and obesity.Some businesses never shut down in the city, but did implement social distancing measures. At an office goods store in a central neighborhood Wednesday, a dozen people lined up in the parking lot outside. A security guard with a mask and bottle of hand sanitizer let customers enter one at a time only when an employee was available to escort them and after a squirt of gel on their hands.Sheinbaum has acknowledged that the real number of deaths in Mexico City is surely higher, but says an independent panel will have to review suspected cases and make a determination. City death records reported by an anti-corruption watchdog group suggested the death toll could be three times as high in the capital.The city’s graduated reopening will be based on its hospital occupancy, which currently stands at 76%.“The trend continues increasing, but we hope this trend will decrease in the coming weeks,” Sheinbaum said.The rest of the city’s economic activity won’t be allowed to resume until hospital occupancy drops below 59%. Even then, restaurants, hotels and churches will be limited to 30% of their capacity.Sports are to resume without fans. But in professional soccer, Mexico’s most popular sport that has been shut down since March 15, club owners are still debating whether to restart their season or just call it off.Fanny Alejandra Manriquez Ezquivel, a city employee who has continued working and not quarantined at home, said Wednesday that she thinks it is time for the city to return to some semblance of normality.“Sooner or later we’re all going to get infected and you’ve got to return to normalcy,” Manriquez said. “They’re the ones who know and have the certainty of how to manage the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mayor-says-mexico-city-will-begin-gradual-reopening-june-1/story-yNOtuXw4K2TuMUBO0Qt9cM.html
21-05-2020||World||US to sell Taiwan torpedoes worth $180 million||The US government has notified Congress of a possible sale of advanced torpedoes to Taiwan worth around $180 million, a move likely to further sour already tense ties between Washington and Beijing, which claims Taiwan as Chinese territory.The United States, like most countries, has no official diplomatic ties with Taiwan, but is bound by law to provide the democratic island with the means to defend itself. China routinely denounces US arms sales to Taiwan.The US State Department has approved a possible sale to Taiwan of 18 MK-48 Mod6 Advanced Technology Heavy Weight Torpedoes and related equipment for an estimated cost of $180 million, the US Defense Security Cooperation Agency said in a statement on Wednesday.“The Defense Security Cooperation Agency delivered the required certification notifying Congress of this possible sale today,” it added.The proposed sale serves US national, economic, and security interests by supporting Taiwan’s “continuing efforts to modernise its armed forces and to maintain a credible defensive capability”, the agency said.The announcement came on the same day Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen was sworn in for her second term in office, saying she strongly rejecting China’s sovereignty claims. China responded that “reunification” was inevitable and that it would never tolerate Taiwan’s independence.China has stepped up its military drills near Taiwan since Tsai’s re-election, flying fighter jets into the island’s air space and sailing warships around Taiwan.China views Tsai as a separatist bent on formal independence for Taiwan. Tsai says Taiwan is an independent state called the Republic of China, its official name, and does not want to be part of the People’s Republic of China governed by Beijing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-to-sell-taiwan-torpedoes-worth-180-million/story-4MUl6I167ft0mtxQrd8AHP.html
21-05-2020||World||New Zealand opens bars as more curbs eased, four-day work week idea floated||Bars and pubs opened in New Zealand for the first time in months on Thursday, as restrictions to limit the spread of the coronavirus were eased further and the government looked to revive economic activity.Venues serving alcohol have remained closed across the country despite most other businesses re-opening last week. The government said they posed additional risks, citing South Korea where a fresh spike in cases was blamed on crowded nightclubs in Seoul.“We’re nervously excited, we’ve been closed for a really long time, which hurts,” Matt McLaughlin, a pub owner and a member of industry group Hospitality New Zealand told 1News.“But, you know, we’re in hospitality. We love our punters, we love our people; we’re excited to get the doors open and get some bums on seats hopefully.”The hospitality and tourism sectors were worst hit by the pandemic, as New Zealand enforced some of the tightest social restrictions in the world to stop the spread of the coronavirus.The measures helped limit infections to just over 1,500 people and 21 deaths, far fewer than many other countries.Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern’s government faces a tough task rebooting the $200 billion economy, with growth expected to slow significantly and hundreds of thousands of jobs lost.The government announced a NZ$50 billion package last week, which included billions on infrastructure, healthcare, housing and wage subsidy schemes.With international travel still banned, Ardern has encouraged businesses to consider allowing a four-day work week so New Zealanders can travel around the country to help the battered tourism industry.“Ultimately, that really sits between employers and employees,” Ardern said, highlighting the increased workplace flexibility the pandemic has led to.“Think about whether that is something that would work for your workplace, because it certainly would help tourism all around the country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-zealand-opens-bars-as-more-curbs-eased-four-day-work-week-idea-floated/story-g8OrC6Jxi4zrujbyuKVfmI.html
21-05-2020||World||Global coronavirus cases cross 5 million in less than 5 months||The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases crossed the 5-million mark on Wednesday, according to a compilation of figures by Worldometer, as the pandemic continued to devastate the globe where close to 325,000 people have now died due to it and millions more find themselves unemployed and at the risk of poverty.The latest million took 12 days, compared to 11 days that it took for the number to go from three to four million infections. Several countries, particularly the ones that were the hardest hit in early April such as Italy and Spain, have crossed their peaks and are reopening slowly, but officials have warned of a second wave that it may lead to. The total number of infections is now equivalent to the population of New Zealand.Also on Wednesday, the World Health Organization (WHO) expressed concern about the rising number of new coronavirus cases in poor countries, even as many rich nations have begun emerging from lockdown.The global health body said 106,000 new cases of infections of the coronavirus had been recorded in the past 24 hours, the most in a single day since the outbreak began.“We still have a long way to go in this pandemic,” WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told a news conference. “We are very concerned about rising cases in low and middle income countries.”Data of fatality and recovery rates on Worldometer suggests that globally, the deadliest stage of the current phase may have passed. On Wednesday, the fatality rate was 14.23% and the recovery rate was 85.77%. Such low proportion of deaths and high proportion of recoveries were last seen before March 24.Brazil, Russia and India are emerging as the new hot spots of the disease. The US, where lockdown protocols have been less strict than most nations, added 20,289 cases on Tuesday to remain on top of the list of countries recording new cases. In less than five months since the disease was first reported - local media in China’s Wuhan wrote about a mystery respiratory illness on December 31 - much of the world has now come to terms with a new reality in which social distancing is compulsory, masks are increasingly mandatory and much of leisure activities - travelling, dining out and events such as concerts and sport - may be too dangerous till researchers find a vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-infects-5-million-worldwide/story-vTtLwmOCBW8dMRQbrlulMI.html
21-05-2020||India||Ahmedabad, Surat continue to drive Gujarat’s Covid cases close to 13,000 mark||Ahmedabad and Surat continue to report bulk of the new coronavirus cases in Gujarat as together they accounted for 267 of the 371 positive cases registered on Thursday, taking the state tally close to 13,000-mark.Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health) said that 233 new positive cases were from Ahmedabad, 34 from Surat and 24 from Vadodra. Also, 24 deaths were reported in the past 24 hours, she said.“The tally of total positive case has reached 12,910 while 773 fatalities have been reported in the state as of now. A total of 4,96,730 people have been kept in quarantine, out of which 4,85,051 are in home quarantine,” Ravi said.She claimed that the recovery rate of Covid patients in the state was improving.“So far 5,488 people have been discharged. Condition of 6,519 affected people is stable and 52 are on ventilator,” Ravi added.In most states, the recovery rates have shown dramatic improvement since the health ministry tweaked discharge guidelines allowing patients with mild symptoms to be home quarantined instead of admission in Covid hospitals.Thursday also marked the second day of the resumption of state government run buses, over 20,000 passengers had availed the service on day one. The passengers have been instructed to compulsorily wear masks and maintaining physical distance.Ashwani Kumar, secretary to chief minister, said that the state government had announced special relaxations for lockdown 4.0 for a graded restoration of normalcy amid Covid-19. “As part of this, we have allowed state transport bus service to resume operations from May 20. These buses will operate between 8:00 am to 6:00 pm in other than containment zones across the state,” he said.“Gujarat state transport has resumed after around a period of two months, on the first day, as many as 23,069 passengers travelled on a total of 6,600 busses which include 46 express and 6,545 local trips,” said Kumar.Kumar added that in the prevailing circumstances, it is desirable for passengers to book e-tickets or mobile tickets, however, tickets are also being issued against cash from the counters at the bus stand and by the conductor in the bus while complying with the physical distancing norms.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19He also advised the passengers to arrive at the bus stand at least 30 minutes before the departure time. The buses are being operated at 60 per cent seating capacity and are also being sanitised after making each trip.“At present, bus services are operational in all the districts except Ahmedabad. The interstate transport and the Gandhinagar to Ahmedabad service is not allowed currently,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahmedabad-surat-continue-to-drive-gujarat-s-covid-cases-close-to-13-000-mark/story-uT86oovEISGrnnRT0VQbNM.html
21-05-2020||India||India becomes world’s second largest manufacturer of PPE body coveralls||India has become the world’s second largest manufacturer of personal protective equipment (PPE) body coveralls within a short time span of two months, the government said on Thursday.  China is the world’s leading producer of PPE body coveralls, crucial to safeguard against the Covid-19 pandemic.  In a statement, the Ministry of Textiles said it has been taking several steps to ensure that both quality and quantity of PPE coveralls going up to the desired levels within a very short span of time of two months, “thereby catapulting India into the world’s second largest manufacturer of body coveralls, next only to China”.  The ministry has taken steps to ensure that only certified players across the entire supply chain are allowed to supply body coveralls to governments, an official statement said.  Besides, Textiles Committee, Mumbai too will now test and certify PPE body coveralls required for healthcare workers and other Covid-19 warriors.  Ajit Chavan, secretary, Textiles Committee and Additional Textile Commissioner, Ministry of Textiles, explained how the committee rose up to the occasion to surmount the challenge of non-availability of reputed domestic manufacturers of PPE testing equipment.   “We faced the humongous challenges of non-availability of domestic manufacturers of repute and incessant delay/long gestation period to import machine from China as also challenges of ever-increasing prices by the opportunist companies in China due to demand for such equipment the world over. We therefore decided to do it indigenously,” he said.  The secretary informed how the testing equipment will help the nation during the crisis: “With the acquisition of this equipment and with a concrete plan to add some more equipment as per need, we will be able to address not only the quantitative but also the qualitative requirements involved in the testing of body coveralls worn by the frontline health workers and other COVID-19 warriors”.The Textiles Committee is a statutory body established in 1963 through an Act of Parliament and is under the administrative control of the Ministry of Textiles, Government of India.  It was formed to ensure the quality of textiles and textile machinery both for internal consumption and export purpose.The committee is tasked with the functions of establishing laboratories for the testing of textiles and textile machinery and providing for their inspection and examination, besides other functions which flow from the main objective of ensuring quality of textiles products and textiles machinery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-becomes-world-s-second-largest-manufacturer-of-ppe-body-coveralls/story-f41BRGYbNL2cngM98SpkVL.html
21-05-2020||India||5 more deaths take Telangana’a casualties to 11 since Lockdown 4.0 began||Telangana on Thursday saw a sudden rise in the number of deaths due to Covid-19 with five persons succumbing while 38 others tested positive for the virus.The Telangana government kept the details of the deceased under wraps – the official bulletin from the state medical and health department did not disclose where these deaths were reported from or the age group of the victims.With these five fresh fatalities, the total number of deaths due to Covid-19 in the last three days in Telangana – since the Lockdown 4.0 came into effect – shot up steeply by 11. The death toll which was 34 on Monday, climbed to 45 on Thursday.Of the 38 new cases, 26 were from Hyderabad and two from Ranga Reddy district, while the remaining 10 cases were that of migrants. In all, the total number of migrants who tested positive stood at 99 and the overall number of coronavirus positive cases increased to 1699 – as many as 107 cases were reported in the last three days.At present, there are 618 active Covid-19 patients who are admitted to Gandhi Hospital while 1,036 people have recovered and have been discharged.According to the health officials, at present, there are 25 districts in the State that have not reported a single Covid-19 case in the last 14 days. The districts are: Karimnagar, Siricilla, Kamareddy, Mahabubnagar, Medak, Bhupalpally, Nagarkurnool, Mulugu, Peddapally, Siddipet, Mahabubabad, Mancherial, Nizamabad, Adilabad, Suryapet, Narayanpet, Warangal urban, Gadwal, Jangaon and Nirmal.Meanwhile, one more person died of Covid-19 in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh while 45 fresh positive cases were confirmed, taking the total number of infections in the state to 2,605 in the last 24 hours, an official bulletin said.The lone death was reported in Kurnool, taking the COVID-19 toll in the state to 54. Of the fresh cases in the past 24 hours ending 9 am on Thursday, four were linked to the Koyambedu market in Chennai, the bulletin said.The bulletin said samples of 8,092 people were tested and 41 have been discharged from various hospitals after treatment, taking the cumulative recoveries to 1,680. The number of active patients now stands at 718.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-more-deaths-take-telangana-a-casualties-to-11-since-lockdown-4-0-began/story-E0j79snwndyiVJIlP43jSP.html
21-05-2020||India||India junks China’s charge of sparking tension||Sutirtho Patranobis and Rezaul H LaskarBeijing/New DelhiIndia on Thursday strongly rebutted China’s contention that tensions in the Ladakh and Sikkim sectors were triggered by Indian troops crossing the Line of Actual Control (LAC), even as it accused Chinese forces of hindering patrols on the Indian side.The Indian side said it is committed to peace and tranquillity along the border, but will take all steps to safeguard the country’s sovereignty and security. The remarks by external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava came against the backdrop of continuing tensions along the LAC, especially in Galwan Valley of Ladakh, where both sides have deployed additional troops.New Delhi’s first official reaction to the tensions came a day after India was strongly supported by the US, with top American diplomat Alice Wells saying such disputes are a “reminder of the threat posed by China”.In Beijing, foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian reiterated that Indian troops had trespassed across the LAC and dismissed Wells’ remarks as “just nonsense”. India should work with China and “refrain from unilateral actions” that complicate the situation, he said.China’s foreign ministry side had first accused Indian troops of trespassing across the LAC in a statement to Hindustan Times on Tuesday, saying Beijing had to take “necessary countermeasures” after the Indian side allegedly obstructed normal patrols by Chinese troops.Asked about China’s position on the standoff in Ladakh, external affairs ministry spokesperson Srivastava told an online news briefing: “Any suggestion that Indian troops had undertaken activity across the LAC in the western [Ladakh] sector or the Sikkim sector is not accurate.”Srivastava added: “All Indian activities are entirely on the Indian side of the LAC. In fact, it is [the] Chinese side that has recently undertaken activity hindering India’s normal patrolling patterns.”Indian troops, he said, “scrupulously” abide by the alignment of the LAC and all Indian activities “are entirely on the Indian side of the LAC”. The Indian side has a “very responsible approach towards border management”, and is “deeply committed to ensuring India’s sovereignty and security”, he added.Indian troops strictly follow procedures in bilateral agreements and protocols to resolve situations arising from differences in perception of the LAC, Srivastava said. “The two sides have established mechanisms to resolve such situations peacefully through dialogue. Both sides remain engaged with each other to address any immediate issues,” he said.In line with the consensus reached during the second India-China informal summit in Mamallapuram last year, the Indian side is firmly committed to the common objective of maintaining peace and tranquillity on the border, and this is an “essential prerequisite to the further development of...bilateral relations”, Srivastava said.During an online briefing for journalists on Wednesday, Alice Wells, the outgoing head of the US state department’s South and Central Asian bureau, had said the border tensions were a reminder that “Chinese aggression is not always rhetorical”, and China’s “provocations and disturbing behaviour” raised questions about how Beijing seeks to use its growing power.Responding to her remarks at a regular news briefing, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao said: “The [US] diplomat’s remarks are just nonsense. China’s position on the China-India boundary issue is consistent and clear. China’s border troops firmly safeguard China’s territorial sovereignty and security and firmly dealt with the Indian side’s cross-over and infringement activities.”Zhao added, “We urge the Indian side to work together with us, abide by our leadership’s important consensus, comply with the agreements signed, refrain from unilateral actions complicating the situation.” He further said, “We hope they will make concrete efforts for peace and tranquillity in the border region. There are consultations and diplomatic channels between the two sides that have nothing to do with the US.”Earlier this month, Indian and Chinese troops were involved in clashes in the Sikkim and Ladakh sectors that left several soldiers on both sides injured. The clashes were resolved at the level of local commanders, but both sides rushed in hundreds of soldiers as reinforcements, especially in Galwan Valley.Reports have suggested that the Chinese side deployed troops and heavy equipment that were involved in an exercise to beef up positions in the Ladakh sector. China’s state-run media has described the latest tensions as the worst since the 2017 Doklam standoff, which lasted 73 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-junks-china-s-charge-of-sparking-tension/story-WPaAcuFMHdqXK8DFvvyEBP.html
21-05-2020||India||New Pentagon report says Pakistan continues to harbour Taliban, Haqqani Network||New Delhi: Pakistan continues to focus on countering Indian influence in Afghanistan and harbours the Taliban and groups such as the Haqqani Network, which have the ability to engage in violence on Afghan soil, according to a new Pentagon report.The report by the inspector general of the US department of defense for the January-March quarter, issued on Monday, pointed to a continuation of Pakistan’s efforts to achieve its strategic objectives in Afghanistan, including shutting out India from the war-torn country.The report is the first one to be issued since the US and the Taliban signed an agreement on February 29 to facilitate the withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan. The deal has stalled due to differences between the Taliban and the Afghan government on prisoner releases and intra-Afghan dialogue.There was no immediate response to the report from Indian officials.“According to the DIA [Defense Intelligence Agency], Pakistan’s strategic objectives in Afghanistan continue to be countering Indian influence and mitigating spillover of instability into its territory,” the report said.“The DIA reported that Pakistan likely views increased Taliban influence in Afghanistan as supporting its overall objectives and will seek to influence intra-Afghan peace talks in a direction favourable to Pakistan.”The DIA also reported to the inspector general that “Pakistan has encouraged the Afghan Taliban to participate in peace talks, but refrained from applying coercive pressure that would seriously threaten its relationship with the Afghan Taliban to dissuade the group from conducting further violence”.The DIA also told the inspector general that “Pakistan continues to harbour the Taliban and associated militant groups in Pakistan, such as the Haqqani Network, which maintains the ability to conduct attacks against Afghan interests”.Indian and Afghan officials have for long accused the Taliban, particularly its sword arm, the Haqqani Network, of having close links to the Pakistani military leadership. Most of the Taliban leadership and their families continue to be based in Pakistani cities such as Quetta.The report comes at a time when the US special envoy for Afghanistan reconciliation, Zalmay Khalilzad, has called on India to hold direct talks with the Taliban. However, the Trump administration’s outgoing pointperson for South Asia, Alice Wells, said on Wednesday that it was up to India to take a call on engaging with the Taliban.In his message in the report, Sean O’Donnell, the acting inspector general of the US department of defense, said: “The United States and Taliban agreed to a [one]-week reduction in violence prior to the signing of the agreement, but Taliban violence during the quarter overall was high.“In January and February, both the United States and the Taliban increased operations in order to influence negotiations. In addition, while the Taliban reduced attacks against US and coalition forces, it continued to attack the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces, particularly after the signing of the agreement.”The department of defense didn’t provide information on Taliban-initiated attacks for the January-March quarter, saying this was “sensitive” as it was part of ongoing deliberations on whether the Taliban is complying with the terms of the agreement with the US....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-pentagon-report-says-pakistan-continues-to-harbour-taliban-haqqani-network/story-G5DAqBYi8gZMfHQLN5pT6O.html
21-05-2020||India||371 new cases in a day push Guj tally closer to 13,000||Surat: With 371 new cases reported in 24 hours, the number of people infected by Covid-19 in Gujarat inched close to 13,000 on Thursday. Twenty-four more deaths were reported in the state during the time span.Ahmedabad reported 233 of the cases, Surat 34 and Vadodara 24, said Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health).“The tally of total positive case has reached 12,910 while the 773 fatalities have been reported in the state as of now. A total of 496,730 people have been kept in quarantine out of whom 485,051 are in home quarantine,” Ravi said.She added, “The positive indicator for state is that the recovery rate is improving. So far, 5,488 people have been discharged. Condition of 6,519 affected people is stable and 52 are on ventilator.”In most states, the recovery rates have shown dramatic improvement since the health ministry tweaked discharge guidelines, allowing patients with mild symptoms to home-quarantine themselves instead of seeking admission in Covid hospitals.In a separate development, the state government restarted government buses after a two-month suspension.Ashwani Kumar, secretary to the chief minister, said the government had announced lockdown 4.0 norms with special relaxations to restore life to normal .“As part of this, we have allowed state transport bus service to resume operations for the people from May 20. These buses will operate between 8:00 am and 6:00 pm in areas other than containment zones across the state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/371-new-cases-in-a-day-push-guj-tally-closer-to-13-000/story-sCk9NGqvBEaW9KOSesuGNO.html
21-05-2020||India||Bookings for domestic flights resuming from May 25 begin. Here’s the full schedule||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Thursday released the provisional schedule of domestic flights that will resume operations from May 25. The bookings for air tickets for domestic flights have also begun. The government had on Wednesday announced the gradual reboot of air travel that was halted two months ago on account of a lockdown imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The ministry has fixed the maximum and minimum cap for airfares. For example, the lowest fare for a Delhi-Mumbai flight will be Rs3,500 and the highest at Rs10,000. And, 40% of seats on a flight have to be sold at the mid-point of this band, which works out to Rs6,700. This fare will be applicable till 11.59 pm on August 24.The ministry has capped the domestic air travel capacity, which will be applicable between May 25 and August 24.Check full schedule of domestic flights here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schedule-for-domestic-flights-resuming-from-may-25-released-bookings-begin/story-5xBcdcDotXHBKNtv4lrBQM.html
21-05-2020||India||3 men who claimed they were joining terrorists arrested in Kashmir||Three young men who declared that they were joining a terror group were arrested Thursday after a brief operation by security forces in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district.Security forces launched an operation after the men whose pictures holding AK-47 rifles went viral on social media, were traced in the forests of Lolab Valley, a police spokesman said.The youths were arrested after a brief exchange of fire.Police said the three young men had claimed that they had joined the terrorists.“The trio were identified as Aabid Hussain Wani son of Gulzar Ahmad resident of Lalpora, Zakir Rafiq Bhat son of Abdul Rashid resident of Lalpora and Javid Ahmad Dar son of Ghulam Qadir resident of Thayan Kalaroos,” the police spokesman said adding that prompt contact tracing revealed their presence in the forest area of Gungbugh area of Lolab. A joint security team of the police, army and the CRPF launched a cordon and search operation in the area. “During the search operation they (youth) started firing on the search party. However, repeated announcements were made to persuade them to surrender and after a brief shootout all the three were apprehended alive during the operation. Incriminating materials including arms and ammunition were recovered from their possession,” the spokesman said.Police said that preliminary investigation revealed that these three were in contact with their handlers across PoK via social media, who motivated them to pick arms.“The swift intervention of police and security forces not only led to their prompt tracing but also in saving the precious lives of these misguided youths,” the police spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-men-who-claimed-they-were-joining-terrorists-arrested-in-kashmir/story-YGVseMeAbgXvQCzULTUhWN.html
21-05-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Dedicated quarantine centres for transgenders in Manipur||In a move to accommodate stranded transgenders who have arrived to the state recently, Manipur’s social welfare department has opened first-of-its-kind dedicated quarantine centres for transgender persons, department officials said on Thursday.State Chief Minister N Biren Singh has also tweeted in this regard. In a tweet he wrote, “Transgender quarantine centre opened at Government Ideal Blind School, Takyelpat is now ready to receive stranded Transgenders coming from other states.”The department of social welfare, government of Manipur came across some stranded transgenders who have come to the state recently from other states facing some inconvenience when they are accommodated in the institutional/community quarantine centres together with either male or female inmates, according to a press note issued by Ngangom Uttam Singh, Director, Social Welfare department on Thursday.“It was considered prudent to open separate quarantine centre for the transgender was to ensure emotional security to the persons belonging to the third gender during the current pandemic,” the press note said.The state’s department health and family welfare has been requested to designate the current institutional quarantine centres at Maria Montessori Higher Secondary School in Imphal East district to quarantine those(stranded transgenders) coming from red zones and Government Ideal Blind School in Imphal West district to quarantine those from green zones, as per the press note of department.Necessary logistics are to be arranged by the health and family welfare department in case of Imphal East centre while social welfare department for the Imphal West centre.After the said two centres were designated as institutional quarantine centres and dedicated quarantine centres for transgenders on Wednesday, the health department has also provided medical items including masks,sanitizers etc for use in the transgender quarantine centre at Government Ideal Blind School in Imphal West district.When contacted, K Saroja Devi, Deputy Director, Social welfare department who is the in-charge of Imphal West quarantine centre said, the centre can provide accommodation to 24 persons. The remaining can be accommodated at Imphal East centre and the capacity can be enhanced as per the requirement, the official note added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-dedicated-quarantine-centres-for-transgenders-in-manipur/story-KRkRZP6C81ujbdzHTzfoDP.html
21-05-2020||India||No rail travel within Maharashtra, tickets to be cancelled, says railways||Passengers wanting to travel by trains within Maharashtra will not be permitted to do so. Inter district train travel within Maharashtra will not be allowed from June 1, the railways ministry said in a notification Thursday evening. Tickets of passengers whose originating and terminating stations are in Maharashtra will be cancelled, the notification said. “Maharashtra government has informed Railways that inter-district travel is prohibited within the state of Maharashtra. It is therefore, desired that tickets of all the passengers whose originating and terminating stations fall within Maharashtra be cancelled and full refund be given without deduction of any cancellation charges. It is desired that till further orders, inter-state booking within Maharashtra should not be permitted.” the notice read.However, passengers wanting to travel outside Maharashtra will be permitted to travel.Indian railways will commence operation of 200 passenger trains from June 1 across India. The trains will be operated alongside Shramik special trains that are being used to evacuate migrant workers.According to an earlier order, booking for the tickets started on Thursday morning and were only to be available on the Indian Rail Catering Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) website. However, late Thursday evening, the Railway Board said reservation counters, common service centres for booking reserved tickets will open on Friday. Zonal railways will decide the number of counters to be opened as per requirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-rail-travel-within-maharashtra-tickets-to-be-cancelled-says-railways/story-XamMfWW0LzoQvaxwXXnywM.html
21-05-2020||India||Congress launches Rajiv Gandhi Nyaya Scheme in Chhattisgarh; farmers get cash||Congress president Sonia Gandhi launched the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay scheme on the death anniversary of former PM Rajiv Gandhi in Chhattisgarh through video conferencing on Thursday and said this was a true tribute to the former prime minister.Addressing the launch event, she said that the scheme will directly bring a change in the lives of farmers and help them become self-reliant.“Such schemes should be implemented at the ground level to help bring a change in the lives of people. This is a revolutionary scheme and is a true tribute to Rajiv Gandhi. This is a big step in line with the values of Rajiv Gandhi,” she said during the launch.Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel with his Cabinet Ministers transferred Rs 1,500 crore to the bank accounts of farmers in Chhattisgarh as the first installment of Rs 5,750 crore provisioned under this scheme. The programme was also attended by senior leader Motilal Vora, PL Punia, Randeep Singh Surjewala, along with MPs, MLAs and beneficiary farmers via video conferencing.Rahul Gandhi, who was also present during the ceremony, said that in view of the crisis due to the coronavirus he had requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide financial aid to poor people instead of loans as they presently need cash more than credit.“The Chhattisgarh government has found a commendable solution to the situation. Chhattisgarh is the first state of the country to transfer financial aid directly into the accounts of farmers. The state government has set an example for the entire country on how to help people in the time of crisis,” said Rahul.Under the scheme, based on registered area and area under cultivation during Kharif crop season 2019, Rs 10,000 per acre will be deposited in bank accounts of farmers as agriculture assistance grant through Direct Benefit Transfer for procuring crops like paddy, maize and sugarcane (Rabi), the state government claimed.At least 19 lakh farmers will benefit from the scheme, for which the state government had allocated Rs 5,756 crore in the budget 2020-21. The government added that the money will be given to the farmers in four installments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-launches-rajiv-gandhi-nyaya-scheme-in-chhattisgarh-farmers-get-cash/story-kcL2O586BC6UUbi9oPfKFM.html
21-05-2020||India||Two Maoists killed in encounter in Chhattisgarh’s Dantewada: Police||Two alleged Maoists were killed in an encounter with the security forces in Chhattisgarh’s Dantewada district on Thursday.Two country-made weapons and 5 kg IED were recovered from the encounter spot, police said.“The encounter started at around 2.30 pm between the district reserve guards (DRG) and Maoists near Neelawada, along the southern side of Indravati river, near Tumnar,” said SP Dantewada Abhishek Pallav.After the gunfight stopped, a search operation was launched in the area following which bodies of two Maoists were recovered, he said. The deceased were identified as Rishu Istam, Platoon- 16 deputy commander and Maata, Pidiyakot, a Janmilita commander. Pallav said that the operation was launched based on specific inputs about presence of Mallesh (Platoon 16 commander), Rishu Istam (deputy commander of Platoon 16), Ajay and Murli along with 15 to 20 other Maoist cadres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-maoists-killed-in-encounter-in-chhattisgarh-s-dantewada-police/story-dnFFtS9WgEtYw1S2dWe3pL.html
21-05-2020||India||KGMU Lucknow’s trial is important to understand if BCG can prevent Covid-19||The King George’s Medical University (KGMU) in Lucknow has decided to study the efficacy of BCG vaccine in Covid-19 prevention by conducting vaccine trials on 170 people belonging to the high risk group.“We are selecting people in the high risk groups (HRGs) to be administered BCG vaccine. This will include healthcare workers attending to Covid-19 patients and immediate family of coronavirus patients,” said Dr D Himanshu, senior faculty of the medicine department at KGMU. KGMU is the only centre in the state to have undertaken such a study. The stock of vaccine vials have arrived and the selection of people to participate in the trials has begun. “The trial, being done in association with the Serum Institute in Pune, is premised on a belief that several Indians could have been shielded by coronavirus because of BCG vaccine taken during the childhood, unlike countries such as America where the vaccine is optional. Immunity conferred through BCG vaccine may be used against Covid-19,” Dr Himanshu reasoned.Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) vaccine is known to provide a broad spectrum of immunity against TB and other diseases. Himanshu said two sets of people belonging to the high-risk groups have been identified for the trials. First are the healthcare workers and second are the immediate family members of Covid-19 positive cases.For Coronavirus Live Updates“We have started identifying such healthcare workers and once the list is finalized, we hope to administer them the vaccine by the start of the next week,” said Himanshu.He added that family members of the positive cases will be administered the vaccine after consent. “Each member in both the groups will first be checked to see whether they are already infected with the virus. If so, then they shall not be included in the study as it is being done to check the preventive capacity of the BCG vaccine,” Himanshu said.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The entire trial is likely to get complete in 3 months time. “In India, several medical centres are conducting similar trials. The results of all the centres will be evaluated individually and then collectively to ascertain whether this will work or not. The final call will be taken only when all the centres submit reports,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kgmu-lucknow-s-trial-is-important-to-understand-if-bcg-can-prevent-covid-19/story-SJq9QhQjZgDwAJMILl6v9J.html
21-05-2020||India||At least 60 babies delivered in Odisha during cyclone Amphan||Even as the apocalyptic winds of cyclone Amphan brought death and disaster in Bengal on Wednesday, in the coastal Odisha district of Bhadrak the air rent with cries of at least 60 newborn babies.Bhadrak district collector Gyana Das said 218 expectant mothers were admitted in Primary Health Centresand District Headquarters Hospital of the district on Tuesday and Wednesday for institutional delivery. While 43 babies were born on Tuesday, the rest took birth on Wednesday. Of them, one woman named Subhakanti Sahoo of Dhusuri tehsil gave birth to twins.Das shared the picture of the mother and her newborn twins on his official Twitter account while appreciating the services of Angawadi workers, ASHA workers and other health workers during the calamity.On Wednesday, a pregnant woman in Kendrapara district had delivered a baby in a fire tender while the storm raged on outside. Though the 20-year old woman went into labour, ambulance could not reach her due to fallen trees blocking the road to her house. When she was being taken to a hospital in a fire service vehicle, she delivered the baby inside the vehicle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-least-60-babies-delivered-in-odisha-during-cyclone-amphan/story-25B8WfwFLuez9hf4gGhh5J.html
21-05-2020||India||KCR to take call on resumption of Telugu films shooting||Shootings for Telugu films and television serials are likely to resume soon in Telangana, but the chances of theatres and multiplexes reopening are bleak at least in the near future.This was made clear by Telangana minister for cinematography Talasani Srinivasa Yadav after meeting a delegation of Telugu film industry representatives at the residence of popular actor and former Union minister K Chiranjeevi on Thursday.Yadav told reporters later that the state government would take a decision shortly on resumption of shootings for movies and television serials in the wake of uncertainty in continuing the lockdown to prevent spread of Covid-19.“However, there is no restrictions on taking up post-production works even during the lockdown period. The representatives of the film industry requested that the shootings be allowed, while strictly following the Covid-19 norms like maintenance of physical distancing and sanitation,” the minister said.The industry delegation told the minister that a demonstration video on how indoor and outdoor shootings could resume, highlighting precautionary measures to be taken by the film cast and crew, including physical distancing, using sanitizers and face masks, would soon be submitted to the state government.“The delegation wants a meeting to be arranged with chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. The situation would be reviewed by the chief minister and a decision on lifting restrictions on the industry would be taken after that,” Yadav said.The minister discussed with the delegation on the impact of lockdown on cinema workers, including 14,000-odd daily wage workers. He said the state government, too, was positive about supporting the families of cinema workers.Apart from Chiranjeevi, other Telugu film personalities including D Suresh Babu, Allu Aravind, C. Kalyan, Akkineni Nagarjuna, Dil Raju, Gemini Kiran, Shyam Prasad Reddy, SS Rajamouli, VV Vinayak, Trivikram Srinivas, N Shankar, Koratala Siva, N Shankar and Ram Mohan Rao, were part of the delegation that met the cinematography minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kcr-to-take-call-on-resumption-of-telugu-films-shooting/story-y7VjFtlNW0430md4os8mMJ.html
21-05-2020||India||‘Game changer’: Assocham on army’s 3-year service proposal for civilians||After industrialist Anand Mahindra backed the army’s proposed “tour of duty” (ToD) model last week, industry body Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (Assocham) on Thursday supported the proposal that seeks to allow the country’s youth to serve the military for three years, an army officer familiar with the move said.The scheme has also elicited positive response from some other industrialists. The industry body, in an email to the army on Thursday, described the ToD initiative of the government as a “game changer”, said the official cited above. He said that the Assocham has communicated to the army that it will work with the government to promote the ToD scheme not just as an “employment opportunity” but as a “nation building” initiative “where the industry will send existing employees for a three-year tour of duty with job security when they return.”Bharat Forge chairman Baba Kalyani said his company would even consider hiring candidates first and then let them do the military internship “as it will help us groom our work force in the ethos of the army.” The ToD model is similar to the short-service commission that allows officers to serve the armed forces for 10 to 14 years.If the proposal is accepted, the army could implement the ToD model - essentially an voluntary internship after military training - on a trial basis for both officers and other ranks in a limited number of vacancies.Last week, Mahindra said the ToD exposure would give young people an “added advantage” in their next workplace. In an e-mail to the army, Mahindra said his group would be happy to consider the candidature of ToD optees for corporate jobs.“I definitely think military training will be an added advantage for Tour of Duty Graduates as they enter the workplace. In fact, considering the rigid standards of selection and training in the Indian Army, the Mahindra Group will be happy to consider their candidature,” Mahindra wrote.The ToD proposal, reviewed by Hindustan Times, stressed that the internship model would result in savings for the organisation. It said it will also brighten the prospects of the ToD optees in the corporate world.“The cumulative cost of pre-commission training, pay/allowances, proposed severance packages, leave encashment and other costs is nearly Rs 5.12 crore and Rs 6.83 crore for short-service commissioned (SSC) officers released after 10 and 14 years of service. However, similar costs for those released after three years will be just Rs 80 to Rs 85 lakh,” the proposal stated. It said the ToD model would eventually result in significant reduction in salary and pension budgets, too. The proposal cites a survey that has indicated that corporate houses would prefer employing individuals who have been trained by the military and join them at the age of 26-27 after a three-year ToD rather than college graduates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/game-changer-assocham-on-army-s-3-year-service-proposal-for-civilians/story-dZ6dIjwaigCi92iUFwSXMN.html
21-05-2020||India||Covid latest: Three erroneous positive results lead to bar on Goa’s private lab||The Goa government has suspended the permission it had granted to a private laboratory to collect samples for Covid-19 testing after a string of erroneous results emanated from the lab’s testing centre.The laboratory, which used to collect swab samples and send to its headquarters in Mumbai for testing, was granted permission to collect samples after the Mumbai lab was granted a licence by the ICMR for conducting Covid-19 tests. “Three samples of industrial labourers, which the laboratory reported as positive, have tested negative in the tests conducted at the Government lab, despite being tested twice. So we have temporarily suspended their permission to collect swab samples,” Mohanan said. The laboratory, SRL Diagnostics, was the sole private laboratory in Goa that was permitted to conduct tests. Several industries that brought in their workforce from outside the state had relied on the private laboratory to conduct tests on their employees. For Coronavirus Live Updates“Henceforth, these employees will be tested for coronavirus in the government laboratory,” Mohanan said. The State has so far registered 52 cases, 45 of which are active and are among those who have travelled to the state after restricted movement between borders was allowed. Among the patients detected, only two are symptomatic. With trains and planes set to gradually resume service over the coming weeks, the state is bracing for an increase in positive cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-latest-three-erroneous-positive-results-lead-to-bar-on-goa-s-private-lab/story-gexfr6bmKjCNv0YTheTWYJ.html
21-05-2020||India||Day before PM Modi’s visit, Odisha says 45 lakh people affected by Amphan||A day after it barely escaped from the full fury of super cyclone Amphan that battered neighbouring West Bengal, Odisha informed the Centre that 45 lakh people in 1,500 villages were affected by the storm.At a meeting of the National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC) which reviewed the situation in the cyclone affected areas of Odisha and West Bengal on Thursday,Odisha chief secretary Asit Tripathy who attended through video-conferencing, told Union cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba said apart from bringing heavy rain and winds peaking up to 100 km per hour in some coastal areas, there was no loss of lives.“Around 44.8 lakh people in 1,500 grampanchayats were affected by cyclone Amphan,” Tripathy said at the NCMC meeting.Unofficially, three deaths have been reported in Odisha including one of a 2-month-old infant in Bhadrak district due to wall collapse. In Bengal, 72 people were killed by the cyclone.“Nearly two lakh people in Odisha were evacuated from their homes and placed safely in different shelters during the cyclone. A total of 210 medical teams and 75 teams of veterinary doctors have been sent to the affected areas,” Tripathy said, adding that collectors of the affected districts have been asked to submit the cyclone-damage report in two days.Late evening Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s office announced that he would carry out aerial surveys of West Bengal and Odisha to assess the damage wreaked by the storm.“My thoughts are with the people of Odisha as the state bravely battles the effects of Cyclone Amphan. Authorities are working on the ground to ensure all possible assistance to the those affected. I pray that the situation normalises at the earliest,” PM Modi had tweeted earlier in the day.Chief minister Naveen Patnaik made an aerial survey of the affected areas of the coastal and its adjoining districts that faced the fury of Amphan.Though Odisha did not see as much damage as Bengal faced, the 100-kmph velocity winds led to uprooting of a large number of trees and flattening of kutcha houses in Bhadrak, Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara and Balasore districts. Vehicular movement came to a standstill while power supply snapped due to uprooting of electric poles.Odisha energy minister Dibya Shankar Mishra said over 80 per cent of the 44 lakh consumers would get back power soon.National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) director general SN Pradhan said within 24-48 hours, all roads in the cyclone-hit districts would be cleared.The state government meanwhile showered praises on the India Meteorological Department (IMD) saying its accurate weather forecast caused minimal damage in the state. Thanking IMD’s Director General Mrutyunjay Mohapatra for accurate predictions, chief secretary Tripathy said the correct forecast of the natural calamity is a great advantage to contain the damage to life and property, “The IMD is valuable in this area and its forecast is getting better with time. “We thank Mohapatra, NDRF DG S N Pradhan and everyone in this valuable national body,” he said.Additional Chief Secretary-cum-Special Relief Commissioner P K Jena too thanked Mohapatra for re-assuring the state government to have complete faith in IMD’s prediction and forecast on cyclone ‘Amphan’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-before-pm-modi-s-visit-odisha-says-45-lakh-people-affected-by-amphan/story-u1z1g4Y4IodLmUQWdSkISM.html
21-05-2020||India||Ticket reservation counters at railway stations to open from May 22||Ticket reservation counters at railway stations will re-open in a phased manner beginning Friday, the railway ministry said on Thursday. The ministry has also allowed the booking of train tickets through Common Service Centers (CSCs) and agents. “ Opening of all these booking facilities once again will mark an important step in the graded restoration of passenger railway services and making the task of ticket booking easy for all prospective travelers from all parts of India in reserved trains. Zonal railways may adhere to standard social distancing guidelines and observe the hygiene protocols in view of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic,” the ministry said.Zonal Railways have been instructed to decide and notify the opening of reservation counters in a phased manner tomorrow along with dissemination of information about their locations and timings as per local needs and conditions.Booking of train tickets will resume at around 1.7 lakh common service centres across the country from Friday onward, union railway minister Piyush Goyal also said on Thursday.Railways will also allow booking at counters across the station soon, he said. This will make the service accessible to those in remote locations. The minister said bookings will also resume at counters at specific railway stations over the next two to three days.“ We will announce resumption of more trains. It is time to take India towards normalcy. We are developing a protocol to identify the stations where counters can be opened. We have to ensure that there are no large crowds gathering at counters to book tickets, so we are studying the situation and devising a protocol towards it,” Goyal said.Goyal was speaking at an interaction with BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra on Thursday. Railways on Tuesday announced it will run 200 special passenger trains a day from June 1 and online ticket booking was scheduled to open Thursday.Goyal said within 2.5 hours of opening bookings for the 100 pairs of special trains on Thursday, four lakh passengers had booked tickets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ticket-reservation-counters-at-railway-stations-to-open-from-may-22/story-Dw2W8K2jG2xTJyxG6a2A7L.html
21-05-2020||India||Vande Bharat Mission in phase 3 may rope private airlines, talks on||The third phase of Vande Bharat Mission, India’s massive programme to repatriate nationals stranded across the globe due to the Covid-19 crisis, is expected to involve private airlines to increase the number of flights.The third phase is set to begin after June 13, when the second phase will end. India is bringing back about 32,000 citizens on more than 160 flights from 47 countries during the second phase, which began on May 16.“There will be a third phase of repatriation. The second phase will last till June 13,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told an online news briefing.“We are very receptive to the idea [of involving private airlines] and the ministry of civil aviation is already in discussions with private airlines to see how they can be included under the Vande Bharat Mission so that we can increase the number of flights,” he said.All flights in the first two phases were being operated by state-run Air India and its subsidiary Air India Express. The government has also used air force transport aircraft and naval warships to repatriate nationals from some countries.As of Thursday, a total of 23,475 Indians have been repatriated under Vande Bharat Mission. They include 4,883 workers, 4,196 students and 3,087 professionals.The second phase has included destinations such as Istanbul, Ho Chi Minh City and Lagos, and increased flights to the US and Europe. “We are also looking at developing Frankfurt as a hub [for Europe],” Srivastava said.Several flights from other countries, coming in to evacuate nationals of those countries, have ferried stranded Indians. A flight from Buenos Aires that arrived on Thursday morning carried 62 Indians, while a flight operated by Iran’s Mahaan Air on May 17 carried about 300 Indian pilgrims from Ladakh.Other flights have brought back Indians from Argentina, Djibouti, Hong Kong, Mongolia, Peru and South Africa. A special Tunisian military evacuation flight took off from Tunis on Thursday with 25 Indian nationals and it is expected to arrive in New Delhi on Friday morning.A total of 259,001 Indian nationals in 98 countries around the world have registered to return under Vande Bharat Mission. Most of them are workers (28%), students (25%), professionals (14.5%), and short-term visa holders such as tourists (7.6%). Fishermen, deportees and Indian nationals who benefited from visa amnesties have also registered.The government has already said priority will be given to those with compelling reasons for returning, such as loss of jobs, medical emergencies and senior citizens. Among those with compelling reasons who registered to return are 16,991 facing medical emergencies and 8,746 pregnant women and senior citizens. Following a spat between the Central and West Bengal governments over the lack of flights to the state, 169 Indian nationals were repatriated from Dhaka to Kolkata on May 18. Two more Dhaka-Kolkata flights are scheduled for May 27 and June 1, and further flights to West Bengal are planned from Europe, the UK and other destinations.Srivastava said India is also facilitating the travel of foreign nationals on outbound flights under Vande Bharat Mission. Three flights were operated to the UK on May 16, 18 and 20 and two flights to the US on May 18 and 20. Four more flights are scheduled to the US and two to Frankfurt.Wherever possible, passengers have to undergo testing before boarding flights and in a few instances, those who tested positive for Covid-19 weren’t allowed to board. “There is full medical screening and only asymptomatic passengers are allowed on board,” Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vande-bharat-mission-in-phase-3-may-rope-private-airlines-talks-are-on/story-VFYSpHkboI5l0tAa6jwecK.html
21-05-2020||India||India yet to hear from Pakistan on coordinated response with Iran to control desert locusts||India is yet to hear from Pakistan on a proposal for a coordinated response along with Iran to control the problem of desert locusts, people familiar with developments said on Thursday.Iran has already responded positively to the Indian proposal, which includes an offer to supply pesticides to control locust populations in Sistan-Balochistan and South Khorasan provinces, the people said on condition of anonymity.The proposal was made against the backdrop of reports that swarms of the destructive pests were making their way to Indian states such as Rajasthan after breeding and maturing in Iranian provinces and Pakistan’s Balochistan province.“It remains to be seen if Pakistan will rise above its narrow-minded approach, as was seen in the case of India’s regional initiative for dealing with Covid-19, and come forward to cooperate with India on a coordinated desert locust control operation,” said one of the people cited above.India mooted the coordinated response to control desert locust populations to Iran and Pakistan as part of efforts to further regional cooperation. India had suggested to Pakistan that the two countries could coordinate locust control operations along their border and New Delhi could facilitate the supply of the pesticide Malathion to Islamabad, the people said.“The institutionalised mechanism of the Locust Warning Organization could be energised for such cooperation. These efforts will contribute to mitigate the impact of desert locust not only in the two other countries, but also for India,” said a second person.Pakistan was the last country to pledge a contribution to the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) Covid-19 Emergency Fund, which was created at India’s initiative, and it has pushed for the fund to be placed under the Saarc Secretariat.According to the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), hopper bands of locusts are maturing in the southwestern coastal plains of in Iran, and another generation of breeding is underway in the country’s southeast, where hatching is taking place on the coast and in the interior of Sistan-Baluchistan.In Pakistan, adult groups of locusts are migrating to the Indian border from breeding areas in Balochistan, where hopper groups are present, and from Punjab and Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa provinces.FAO reports suggest the desert locust population is expected to move from spring breeding areas in Balochistan to summer breeding along the India-Pakistan border. In India, more adult groups and small swarms have arrived from Pakistan in the past few weeks, and moved into Rajasthan, reaching Jodhpur.The agriculture ministry leads India’s efforts in locust control and also spearheads initiatives to foster regional cooperation, the people said.India has an existing institutionalised mechanism with Pakistan for such cooperation, including regular border meetings between locust officers of the two sides. Six border meetings, led by plant protection advisers of India and Pakistan, are held every year from June to November, either at Munabao on the Indian side or Khokhropar on the Pakistani side for exchanging information.Wireless communication is maintained every year during June-November between Jodhpur in India and Karachi in Pakistan for exchange of information.“There is consensus that the desert locusts could pose a grave challenge in 2020. The agriculture ministry has already started efforts to address the issue. In March, minister of state for agriculture Kailash Choudhary participated in a virtual meeting for the southwest Asian region coordinated by FAO to discuss regional cooperation to combat the desert locust problem,” the first person cited above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-yet-to-hear-from-pakistan-on-coordinated-response-with-iran-to-control-desert-locusts/story-a5QgyhMKPI7TboLTxKsY0J.html
21-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Assam begins ‘ruthless quarantine’ as Covid-19 cases double to 204 in 4 days and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Assam begins ‘ruthless quarantine’ as Covid-19 cases double to 204 in 4 daysThe Covid-19 tally in Assam doubled in just four days from 100 to 204 on Thursday even as the government announced a policy of ‘Ruthless quarantine, with human heart’ to control spread of the virus infection. Read more. Air fares capped by govt for 3 months, Delhi-Mumbai maximum fare Rs 10,000The Centre has laid down the upper and lower limit of airfares for the airlines to follow over the next three months - till August - as domestic flights resume operations next Monday. Initially, only a third of operations will be allowed. Read more. Maharashtra imposes price cap on private hospitals treating Covid patientsMaharashtra government on Thursday imposed a price cap on private hospitals treating coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients after allegations were flying thick and fast that many of these healthcare facilities were charging exorbitant fees in a bid to compensate for a 90% dip in the admission of non-Covid-19 patients. Read more.Rajnath Singh exhorts MSMEs to make India ‘Atma Nirbhar’ in defence tech, productsAcknowledging that defence manufacturing has been adversely affected due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday exhorted MSMEs to make India ‘Atma Nirbhar’ (self-reliant) in defence technology and products. Read more. 15-year-old Jyoti Kumari, who cycled 1200 km carrying father, will be called for trial by cycling federationKumari was residing in Gurugram before the lockdown but had to make the tough decision to peddle her way to Bihar along with her father due to nation-wide lockdown. She reached her destination in seven days and it now looks like her sheer doggedness has finally been rewarded. Read more. Two more house helps at Boney Kapoor’s residence test positive for Covid-19Two more members of filmmaker Boney Kapoor’s house staff have tested positive for the coronavirus. This is in addition to the one who was found positive for the deadly virus earlier this week. Oshiwara Police Station PI, Dayanand Bangar confirmed the news to Spotboye.com. Read more. I see you asking, and you’re literally rich: Chrissy Teigen calls out celebrity friends asking for free Cravings merchandiseFormer model turned culinary queen, Chrissy Teigen has been taking over the world with her refreshing and funny personality as well as her many talents, but her brutal honesty has got to be what wins everyone’s hearts over time and again. Read more. This confused cat does not wish to play with a remote control rat. WatchMost of you might remember the classic cartoon franchise, Tom and Jerry. Named after the protagonists, Tom a grey-coloured feline and Jerry a brown-coloured mouse, the series followed the misadventures of these two nemeses. Read more. MOOCs offered on Swayam will be accepted for credit mobility in colleges: MHRDMassive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) offered by Swayam, an online portal by MHRD, will now be accepted for credit mobility in colleges as per the UGC guidelines. Union HRD Minister Dr Ramesh Pokhriyal wrote this on the microblogging site twitter on Thursday. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-assam-begins-ruthless-quarantine-as-covid-19-cases-double-to-204-in-4-days-and-all-the-latest-news/story-VtMEWPzQxmvTYlm05sehJP.html
21-05-2020||India||Days after Bengal’s ‘no night curfew’ declaration, MHA asks states to strictly implement guidelines||The ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Thursday again nudged the states to strictly follow lockdown guidelines, particularly the night curfew - from 7 pm to 7 am – as it is mandated to make sure people observe social distancing to prevent the coronavirus disease from spreading. In his letter to the states, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla said the night curfew that prohibits all non-essential activities and movement between 7pm and 7am across the country is an “important element” of the MHA guidelines, which were issued on Sunday for the fourth phase of lockdown, extended till May 31.However, Bhalla said, “it has been brought to the notice of MHA, through media reports and other sources, that there are violations at various places, in the implementation of guidelines”. He asked local authorities to issue orders in the entirety of their jurisdiction for imposition of the night curfew.Bhalla’s letter doesn’t name any particular state, however, it comes three days after West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banreeje, while issuing the guidelines for the state, had ruled out the enforcement of the night curfew.“We won’t officially declare night curfew because people are already under a lot of stress. We do not want to increase their suffering. But we will request people not to venture out of their homes between 7 pm and 7 am or else police will take action,” Banerjee had said on Monday. She had said that the word ‘curfew’ had bad connotations and people should not feel suffocated.An MHA official, who did not wish to be named, said the lockdown guidelines were issued after consulting all the states. “If they don’t follow these, then it is a clear violation and the states doing so are putting their people at risk,” the officer said.On Monday, the ministry had reminded all states that they cannot dilute the lockdown guidelines issued under the Disaster Management Act.Bhalla, on Thursday, also asked the states to properly delineate the containment zones and take action if the violations are reported in any of the zones – red, orange or green.The national directives, issued along with the guidelines, should also be followed throughout the country, he said. These include – wearing masks, social distancing at work, transport and public places and maintaining hygiene and sanitation etc as they are important to contain the spread of Covid-19 and protecting individuals and community, the letter adds.“I would request all chief secretaries and administrators of union territories to remain vigilant in the fight against Covid-19 and ensure all measures that have either been mandated by MHA, or laid down by the states, are scrupulously adhered to at all levels,” Bhalla added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/days-after-bengal-s-no-night-curfew-declaration-mha-asks-states-to-strictly-implement-guidelines/story-XYdYXWGpMu4zZX9hsGKYbI.html
21-05-2020||India||Assam begins ‘ruthless quarantine’ as Covid-19 cases double to 204 in 4 days||The Covid-19 tally in Assam doubled in just four days from 100 to 204 on Thursday even as the government announced a policy of ‘Ruthless quarantine, with human heart’ to control spread of the virus infection.Fifteen new Covid-19 cases were detected in the state on Thursday taking the tally to 204 from 100 cases on May 17. Assam recorded its first Covid-19 case on March 31 and it took another 37 days for the figure to reach 50 on May 7. It doubled to reach the 100 figure mark in 10 days on May 17.Health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma announced that every person returning to the state will have to undergo a total 14 days of mandatory facility and home quarantine and the government would spend up to Rs 20,000 per person for their care during that period.With the lifting of the ban on inter-state movement since May 4, over 37,000 people have returned to the state by roads and railways. Out of the 204 cases detected so far, 112 were those who returned to Assam after the inter-state movement started. The state currently has 142 active cases while 55 have recovered and three migrated to other states while four have died.“We have seen a rise in cases recently after the ban on inter-state movement was lifted. The state has now entered a critical phase. This is just the tip of the iceberg as nearly 12 lakh people could return to the state in coming weeks,” Sarma said during a press conference.New quarantine policyFrom now, anyone coming back to the state will have to spend the first 7 days in an institutional quarantine facility and the next 7 days in home quarantine. The earlier policy of paid quarantine has been discarded and now the state will bear the entire cost of the quarantine period.“If we fail to implement quarantine properly, it will lead to community transmission. Hence we have decided to adopt the policy of ‘Ruthless quarantine, with human heart,” said Sarma.There will be no relaxation for the quarantine period and criminal proceedings would be initiated against violators. But at the same time the state would try to give the best possible care to everyone under quarantine.“As per the new policy, district administrations can spend up to Rs 2,000 each per person on hotel rent for their period of 7-day facility quarantine, Rs 500 daily on meals, Rs 500 for medicine and sanitizers etc. and Rs 2000 for their food during home quarantine,” said Sarma.Village level committees will be formed to monitor that once a person goes back from facility quarantine, he/she undergoes 7-days of home quarantine along with all family members.Sarma informed that the community surveillance programme launched by the state had covered 21,489 villages in Assam and found 20,832 cases of people with fever, cough and respiratory problems. Tests conducted on nearly 4,000 of them have come negative for all.“It’s a very good sign that an average of just one person per village is showing such symptoms. This could be due to use of masks and social distancing. It’s a very positive health indicator. More importantly, no one was found positive, which shows there is no community transmission in Assam,” he said.Containment and buffer zonesSarma said that Assam will focus on having containment and buffer zones to control spread of Covid-19 and will do away with declaring entire districts as red, orange or green zones unless there are 200 active cases in one district.“No district will be categorized as a red or orange zone till there are 200 active cases. Instead we would follow a policy of having containment zones where new cases are detected and a buffer zone around them,” he said.“District authorities will determine areas to be declared as containment or buffer zones. No activity will be permitted in containment zones, while there will be some relaxation in buffer zones. This will ensure that people in an entire district are not affected and normal activities can go on,” said Sarma.The minister informed that till Thursday 25 of the state’s 33 districts had recorded Covid-19 cases. Kamrup (Metro) with 37 cases leads the list, followed by Hojai with 23 cases and Kamrup (Rural) with 16 cases.Sarma said the state government has already paid Rs 72.23 cr as financial assistance of Rs 2,000 each to 3.61 lakh people from Assam staying outside, who had registered themselves in the government’s portal. The second installment of Rs 2,000 would be disbursed on Friday and the next installment in June.Similarly, another sum of Rs 25,000 each would be given to patients from the state who had gone outside for treatment of serious illnesses and got stranded due to the lockdown. The government had provided the same amount to nearly 900 such persons in April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-begins-ruthless-quarantine-as-covid-19-cases-double-to-204-in-4-days/story-7UALzxeONgUFx1Ubg1Uk5K.html
21-05-2020||India||Maharashtra lacks decisive government to fight coronavirus: Fadnavis||The Bharatiya Janata Party has sharpened its attack against the Maharashtra government alleging it not only failed to curb the spread of the corona pandemic, but was also lax in attracting investments to the state. On Thursday, BJP leader and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said the state lacks a “decisive government” and that it needed protocols in place to restart the economy outside the red zones- the worst affected areas by the coronavirus. He said, with locals in Maharashtra not keen on taking up blue-collar jobs, the state must find a way to restart economic activity as it was an “opportunity of a lifetime” with businesses moving out of China and looking for investment destinations. Interacting with media persons through video-conference, he said the coalition government of the NCP, Congress and the Shiva Sena in the state was largely dependent on the bureaucracy to function.  “…And there are warring factions in bureaucracy. The assertiveness of political leadership is lacking and they are scared of taking decisions,” Fadnavis said.  The BJP has accused the Uddhav Thackeray government of failing to increase the number of tests to detect new coronavirus cases, retain migrant workers and provide them with food and other necessities. On Monday, CM Thackeray had urged the locals to take advantage of reverse migration and urged people to be self-reliant by resuming industrial activities. He said local residents should come forward and start working in industrial units to take Maharashtra forward.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesFadnavis,however, said migrant labourers had made a major contribution in the state , especially in the housing industry and there is an apprehension that they may not return anytime soon. “This will have a bad impact on the real estate sector. They will have to bring them back. Each sector is different, will the local labour take their place, I don’t think so,” he said. Fadnavis also blamed the state government for not testing asymptomatic people while pointing out the possibility of community transmissions in Dharavi and Worli and added that 97% of those admitted in hospitals are asymptomatic. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19“Maharashtra is among the most affected, 31% of all affected people in India are from the state and this number is going up. The state also accounts for 40% of the total deaths in the country,” the former CM said, adding that “strategic errors were made when the lockdown was first announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-lacks-decisive-government-fadnavis/story-uJblq9FBtKctxdrQBir3XL.html
21-05-2020||India||Air fares fixed for next 3 months, Delhi-Mumbai maximum fare Rs 10,000||The Centre has laid down the upper and lower limit of airfares for the airlines to follow over the next three months - till August - as domestic flights resume operations next Monday. Initially, only a third of operations will be allowed.The government has said it is time for India to open up following stringent measures for a nationwide lockdown for over two months.“Because the measures for lockdown were taken very early on in India, we have been able to escape the situation other countries have found themselves in. It is equally important that at some stage you will have to open up. “Two months is a very long period of time. As you have to balance between lives and livelihood, it is time to now open up,” Puri said in a press conference on Thursday.Flights in the domestic circuit will be scaled up gradually and depending upon the situation a decision on international travel will be taken, said the minister. The Centre has put limits on air fares in seven bands as per the flight durations and they would be in place till August 24, Puri said.The minister said the first band, which would have its specific lower and upper limits of air fare, will consist of flights that are of less than 40 minutes duration.Second, third, fourth and fifth bands of upper limit would be flights with durations of 40-60 minutes, 60-90 minutes, 90-120 minutes and 120-150 minutes, he said.The sixth and seventh bands, he added, would consist of flights with durations between 150-180 minutes and 180-210 minutes..According to the ministry’s order, for operations from metro to metro cities, the airlines will be allowed to run flights on one third capacity of the approved schedule. The metro cities refer to Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai, Hyderabad and Kolkata. Airlines have been directed to submit their revised domestic schedule to the Centre.For operations from metro to non-metro cities and vice versa, where the weekly departures are less than 100 flights, airlines are free to operate any routes of the one third capacity of the approved summer schedule, the order stated, adding that for all other cities, airlines are free to operate any routes of the one third capacity of the approved summer schedule.“Earlier the air carriers could put its range (minimum to maximum) on the website...we have looked at corresponding rail fares. We want air travel to become affordable. We have set a minimum fare, and a maximum fare. For Delhi to Mumbai the minimum fare would be Rs 3,500 and maximum at Rs 10,000. Forty percent of the tickets will be sold at the mid-point of this band. These tickets will be priced at around Rs 6,700,” Puri said.The civil aviation ministry also issued detailed guidelines for both the passengers and airlines to follow inside the airports and planes. The government has advised elderly, pregnant women, and people with health issues to avoid travel. Passengers staying in the containment zone will not be allowed to travel. Also, they should not travel if they have been tested positive for Covid-19, the guidelines said.Those travelling will be required to wear the face mask and have been asked to reach the airport at least two hours before the departure. Only one check-in bag will be allowed and airlines will not provide meal services on board.Passengers have been advised to familiarise themselves about the new procedures at the airport, especially about the norms of social distancing, minimum touch, baggage limitations, filing self declaration forms, registering on Aarogya Setu app, and using digital payments for authorised cabs. The Centre has mandated the use of Aarogya Setu app for domestic air travel while children below the age of 14 have been exempted.“In case of non-availability of Aarogya Setu app, the passenger should be facilitated to go to a counter provided by the airport where Aarogya Setu can be downloaded,” it said.If a passenger does not have the Aarogya Setu app on her or his phone for some reason, she or he can give a self-declaration form, Puri said, adding that such a passenger will not be stopped from boarding the flight.Puri also said passengers taking short distance flights would not need to quarantine upon reaching the destination state. However, according to the ministry’s guidelines on arrival at the destination airport “passengers will have to adhere to such health protocols as prescribed by the destination states/UTs”. The Centre has also allowed flights to operate at full capacity. Puri said it was not possible to keep the middle seat vacant. “This is not an option being followed by any other country as well. We will keep our fingers crossed. We are also running our Vande Bharat Mission flights on full capacity and we have been managing well,” he said. Resuming domestic flight services is seen as yet another step by the government in the direction of a graded exit from the lockdown which has been extended till the end of this month.International flight operations have been suspended since March 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-fares-capped-by-govt-for-3-months-delhi-mumbai-maximum-fare-rs-10-000/story-ZV3A0IO5yxddHfy03RXJhK.html
21-05-2020||India||Rajnath Singh exhorts MSMEs to make India ‘Atma Nirbhar’ in defence tech, products||Acknowledging that defence manufacturing has been adversely affected due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday exhorted MSMEs to make India ‘Atma Nirbhar’ (self-reliant) in defence technology and products.Addressing MSMEs E-conclave via video conferencing, Singh termed micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) the backbone of the Indian economy that accelerate GDP growth, earn valuable foreign exchange through exports and provide employment opportunities.Asserting that keeping MSMEs strong is one of the priorities of the government, he said there are more than 8,000 MSMEs, tiered partners of many defence organisations - ordnance factories, DPSUs and service organisations.They contribute more than 20 per cent of the total production of these organisations, Singh said at the conclave jointly organised by Society of Indian Defence Manufacturers (SIDM), Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and Department of Defence Production.Citing the example of the United States where the domestic defence industry developed within a short span of two years during World War-II, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat said India should have its own defence industry. He urged the MSMEs to work for placing India among the top 10 nations in defence technologies.The defence minister hailed the role played by SIDM and other MSMEs in the nation’s fight against global coronavirus pandemic. “I am very happy to know that SIDM has accelerated the manufacturing of DRDO (Defence Research and Development Organisation) designed PPE (Personal Protective Equipment) kits, masks, ventilator parts in the field of defence industry by efficient coordination and channelisation,” Singh was quoted as saying in a statement.“Within less than two months, we have not only met our domestic demand, but we can also think of helping neighbouring countries in the coming time,” he said.Acknowledging the hardships faced by the defence industry, Singh said, “The manufacturing sector has been affected the most due to lockdown and disruption in existing supply chains and the defence sector is no exception to this.” “Rather, it can be said that the defence sector is more aggravated than other sectors as the only buyer of defence products is the government,” he said. Singh assured that the ‘Aatma Nirbhar Bharat’ campaign, inspired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi will provide many opportunities to Indian industry and will help in restoring millions of jobs. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called for being ‘vocal for local’ in this direction. I would like to say that we have to have our indigenous products, i.e. ‘vocal for local’, but before that in our own life, ‘local’ has to be focal. That is, we have to adopt ‘swadeshi’ products in our life,” he said. His comments came days after Prime Minister Modi pitched for making India self-reliant by turning the coronavirus crisis into an opportunity through sustained focus on making the Indian economy globally competitive.There is no doubt that MSMEs have a very important role in the goal of indigenous manufacturing, and in the goal of making India self-reliant, he said. Singh highlighted some of the measures announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman under the ‘Aatma Nirbhar Bharat’ scheme such as collateral free loan of 3 lakh crores for MSMEs - which he said will be effective in re-establishing about 45 lakh units and saving employment. Subordinate debt provision of Rs 20,000 crore has been announced for two lakh MSMEs, this will help stressed MSMEs, Singh said.Equity infusion of Rs 50,000 crore will be provided through ‘Mother-Daughter Fund’ for the purpose of benefiting the needy MSMEs, he said. A Rs 10,000 crore ‘Fund of Funds’ will be set up to help increase the capacity of these units and for marketing, he said.The theme of the E-conclave was ‘Business Continuity for MSMEs in Defence & Aerospace Sector’ in which more than 800 Defence MSMEs participated.Secretary (Defence Production) Raj Kumar, in his address, highlighted the measures taken to alleviate the hardships faced by the defence manufacturing industry due to COVID-19. He said the DPSUs have been asked to clear payments of MSMEs, and also announced that their production targets have not been scaled down. Citing the reforms recently announced by the Finance Minister, he said these measures will help realise the target of achieving a USD 25 billion defence production by 2025. SIDM President Jayant D Patil, former SIDM president Baba N Kalyani, Director General of CII Chandrajit Banerjee, senior civil and military officials of MoD, Ordnance Factory Board and DPSUs were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-exhorts-msmes-to-make-india-atma-nirbhar-in-defence-tech-products/story-2pzpUGKDqeUPh27G8dDfkO.html
21-05-2020||India||Congress cries foul over ‘selective’ eviction notices during Covid crisis, BJP calls it ‘routine’||Madhya Pradesh Congress on Thursday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in the state of not sending eviction notices to those ex-ministers, who resigned as legislators and joined BJP in March, while targeting the former ministers who are in Congress and continue to remain legislators.“All the 24 ex-ministers of the then Kamal Nath cabinet who are in Congress have got eviction notices from the directorate of estate which is working under home department despite the fact that the state is facing a tragedy like Corona when shifting of belongings of an ex-minister from one place to another is an arduous task and people involved in the shifting process will be prone to the risk of contracting the virus. This is a clear case of victimisation at the instance of the state government”, said Kunal Chaudhary, sitting Congress MLA.Kunal Chaudhary alleged, “Six ex-ministers had joined the BJP. Two of them became ministers later, hence they are entitled for bungalows but remaining four have ceased to be even legislators as their resignations had been accepted by the speaker of the state assembly. But they didn’t get eviction notices. Sitting MLA and ex-minister Jitu Patwari is occupying D-type bungalow but there are certain BJP legislators who are not ministers but they are occupying B and C type bungalows. Why two yardsticks by government?”Chaudhary asked, “What was the hurry in sealing the bungalow of ex-finance minister Tarun Bhanot when he was not in his house? Was he running away from the state? Is he not a legislator who has right to remain in a government accommodation?”The directorate of estate issued notices dated May 14 to the ex-ministers after home department through its order dated May 13 conveyed to it that allotment of the ex-ministers on the bungalows they were occupying stood cancelled as the occupants were not ministers anymore. The ex-ministers were expected to submit a reply by May 20 as to why a final eviction notice be not issued against them, as per officials of the home department.On March 22 Congress legislators including six ministers had resigned from the state assembly in an act of rebellion against the then chief minister Kamal Nath. They all joined the BJP later. Tulsi Silavat and Govind Singh Rajput were inducted in Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet on its first expansion on April 21, though they are not members of the state assembly. By-polls to the 22 assembly constituencies and two other constituencies are expected to be held in coming months.On Wednesday, senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Vivek Tankha tweeted, “Shocking action of MP govt. In the midst of corona pandemic authorities issue eviction notices to 24 Cong ex-ministers. In hotspot Bhopal asking ex-ministers to vacat govt residences. @ChouhanShivraj @drnarottammisra personally ensuring. SC/HC bar coercive action in coronatime.”Despite efforts the four ex-ministers who joined the BJP couldn’t be reached for their comments. While mobile phones of Mahendra Singh Sisodia and Pradyumn Tomar were found constantly switched off the two other ex-ministers Prabhuram Chaudhary and Imrati Devi didn’t take phone calls and respond to messages.Home minister Narottam Mishra said, “I have no knowledge if any of the ex-ministers was not given any eviction notice. I will look into it. However, this is all routine administrative process that takes place when there is change in government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-cries-foul-over-selective-eviction-notices-during-covid-crisis-bjp-calls-it-routine/story-WLcKYG9RiaLltPTqA23JMJ.html
21-05-2020||India||Govt supplied 68 million free cooking gas cylinders free under PMGKY||The government has distributed 68 million free cooking gas cylinders under Prime Minister Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY) since April 1, the oil ministry said.Distribution of free cooking gas cylinder is part of the Rs 1.7 lakh crore package announced on March 26 to provide immediate relief to the poor from the nationwide lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19. The welfare package also included three-month ration supply for free and direct cash transfer to under-privileged women, old age persons and disabled people. Under this scheme, the ministry is providing free of cost liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) cylinders to over 80 million Prime Minister Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) beneficiaries for three months with effect from April 1, 2020, the ministry said in a statement.PMUY was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 1, 2016 in Ballia (Uttar Pradesh) to provide free cooking gas connections to 50 million poor households. Later the target was raised to 80 million households, which was achieved six months in advance on September 7, 2019. While the number of free refills under PMGKY are be limited to three for beneficiaries using 14.2 kg cylinders up to June, beneficiaries using small refills of 5 kg will be entitled to eight free refills in the three months.State-run oil marketing companies (OMCs) had delivered 45.3 million cylinders to PMUY beneficiaries last month, the statement said. “As on 20.5.2020, OMCs have delivered total 679.92 cylinders [67.9 million] to PMUY beneficiaries under the package” it added.The beneficiaries were given funds in advance through direct benefit transfer (DBT) in their accounts, so that there was no difficulty in availing this facility. “The Corona Warriors- personnel working in the supply chain of LPG cylinder delivery- have not only been ensuring timely supply of cylinders, but also creating awareness amongst the beneficiaries about the hygiene and various health guidelines,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-supplied-68-million-free-cooking-gas-cylinders-free-under-pmgky/story-ncfoemAqVSvTJh0TEiH9VL.html
21-05-2020||India||Telangana engineer convicted in US for raising money for Al Qaeda leader deported||A 40-year-old engineer from Telangana capital Hyderabad who had been convicted for terror financing has been deported by the United States after completing his prison term, a government official said. Ibrahim Zubair Mohammad was arrested in 2011 for providing material support to al Qaeda leader Anwar al-Awlaki two years earlier.Ibrahim Mohammad was sentenced to five years in jail after he pleaded guilty to his role in the conspiracy, His brother Yahya Mohammad was sentenced to 27 years because he had also hired a hitman to kill a judge presiding over a terror case.A government official told Hindustan Times that Ibrahim Mohammad landed in Amritsar on Wednesday along with other Indian nationals deported from the United States. He has been sent to a quarantine facility for 14 days and will be extensively questioned by Indian security officials to ascertain any possible terror links in India. Sharjah-born Zubar Mohammad graduated in engineering from Osmania University in 2001 and followed his elder brother Yahya Farooq Mohammad to the United States for higher studies. He studied engineering at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign from 2001 through 2005, moved to Toledo in Ohio around 2006 and married. Indian security officials who have questioned Ibrahim Mohammad said he appeared to have been self-radicalised after watching videos of al Qaeda leader Anwar al-Awlaki.When his brother shifted to Dubai, he used the address proof of Ibrahim Zubair Mohammad in the USA for bank transactions. His brother told Imrahim Mohammad to collect cheques from his two Pakistani associates Sultan Salim and Asif Salim and deposited it into his brother’s account. Between 2004 and 2009, approximately 50-60 transactions were made by Ibrahim Mohammad in his brother Yahya Farooq Mohammad’s account.In 2009, Yahya Farooq Mohammad set out to meet Awlaki. When they could not reach him, they decided to meet one of Awlaki’s associates in Yemen’s Sanaa. According to US court documents, handed over $22,000 to be passed on to Awlaki to carry out terror attacks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-engineer-convicted-in-us-for-raising-money-for-al-qaeda-leader-deported/story-kuECuqzL9XuyauXBj5kwCJ.html
21-05-2020||India||Defence manufacturing hit due to Covid-19: Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said the lockdown to combat the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) had hit the manufacturing sector, disrupted supply chains and the defence industry had also been affected due to the strict confinement measures. Acknowledging the hardships faced by the defence industry during an e-conclave, Singh said defence manufacturing had been hit harder than other sectors as the government was the only buyer of defence products. The SIDM MSME Conclave 2020 was jointly organized by the Society of Indian Defence Manufacturers (SIDM), Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and the department of defence production.The minister said the financial package and reforms announced by the government to give a push to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ (Self-Reliant India Movement) would strengthen micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector and generate employment.He said MSMEs were the backbone of Indian economy as they accelerated gross domestic product growth, brought in valuable foreign exchange through exports and provided employment opportunities.The minister said that more than 8,000 MSMEs were an integral part of the production process of the ordnance factories, defence public sector undertakings, dockyards and base repair depots, and their share equalled nearly 20% of the overall the production of the organisations. He said the government was committed to keeping the MSMEs strong.Singh praised the contribution of MSMEs in India’s fight against the coronavirus pandemic. “I am very happy to know that SIDM has accelerated the manufacturing of DRDO designed personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, masks, ventilator parts…In less than two months, we have not only met our domestic demand, but we can also think of helping neighbouring countries in the coming time,” a ministry statement quoted Singh as saying.Talking about the PM’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan,’ the minister said the campaign would provide a raft of opportunities to the industry and help create millions of jobs.From raising foreign direct investment (FDI) in defence manufacturing to creating a separate budget for buying locally-made military hardware and notifying a list of weapons/equipment that cannot be imported, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman last week announced measures to boost self reliance in the defence sector.The other steps included corporatisation of the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB), indigenisation of imported spares and setting realistic qualitative requirements for weapons to support the local industry. The FDI limit in the defence manufacturing sector under the automatic route has been hiked from 49% to 74%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-manufacturing-hit-due-to-covid-19-rajnath-singh/story-CXb4KG5kFkjRfsVOkqYjmI.html
21-05-2020||India||Uttarakhand: Driver dead, 4 others injured after car returning from Delhi meets with an accident||The driver of a car died on the spot and another four were injured, including two children, when the vehicle lost control and fell into a gorge 50 feet below late at night on Wednesday in Ranikhet area of Uttarakhand’s Almora district, said police.The car was coming from Delhi and was on its way to Tipoli village in Almora district amid the easing of lockdown restrictions, which were enforced since end-March to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.District police authorities and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) personnel reached the accident spot and shifted the injured to a local hospital.“The car fell into a gorge after the driver lost control of the vehicle at China Peak viewpoint in Ranikhet late at night on Wednesday,” said Tapesh Kumar, circle officer, Ranikhet police station.“Mahendra Singh Rautela (35), who was driving the car, died on the spot. His friend Sundar (34) and the friend’s wife Manju (30) and their two children, Shreyesh and Disha, were injured. All the passengers belong to Almora,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-driver-dead-4-others-injured-after-car-returning-from-delhi-meets-with-an-accident/story-O34CvmUial01o2hmFOgWvI.html
21-05-2020||India||US pharma firm Gilead Sciences likely to seek nod to market anti-viral drug remdesivir in India||US pharmaceutical giant Gilead Sciences is likely to apply to India’s Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) soon seeking marketing authorisation for its anti-viral drug remdesivir, which is being considered by many as a potential medication for Covid-19.Officials of the Union Health Ministry, along with the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) held a discussion with the representatives of Gilead Sciences on Wednesday to prepare a road map for introducing remdesivir in India, sources said. “The US-based company is keen on applying for granting of marketing authorization for its drug remdesivir in India. They were apprised about the regulatory procedures for granting of approval to a new drug in the country and were assured of total facilitation. “The company representatives said they will get back after discussion with their board of directors,” an official said.The medicine has been issued an Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to treat hospitalised Covid-19 patients.   Regulatory approval under exceptional pathway was granted by the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare on May 7, on the basis of clinical data from the US.“On the basis of approvals granted by USFDA or any other reputed regulator, the Indian regulator can approve the drug by waiving off clinical trials in special circumstances in accordance with the provisions of the New Drug and Clinical Trial Rules 2019,” a source in the know of the developments said.The efficacy of remdesivir was discussed in a recent meeting of the joint-monitoring group (technical committee) headed by the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) and the use of the drug on Covid-19 patients was not approved due to lack of enough scientific evidence at that stage.“In a recent meeting it was decided that since redmdesivir is one among the four treatment protocols that are being evaluated during the randomised controlled clinical trials under WHO’s solidarity trial to find an effective treatment for Covid-19 across several countries, we may wait for its outcome before deciding inclusion of this drug in national treatment protocol,” a source said.The other three treatment protocols are hydroxychloroquine, a combination of lopinavir and ritonavir, and also combination of lopinavir and ritonavir with interferon beta-1a.Gilead Sciences Inc have entered into non-exclusive licensing agreements with pharma firms including three domestic majors Cipla, Jubilant Life Sciences and Hetero for manufacture and distribution of Remdesivir.It has been learnt that these companies will be able to start supplies earliest from July/August even if they are given fast-track approvals in May, the source said.The Health Ministry had earlier written to Gilead Sciences Inc to supply drugs for use on trials for 1,000 patients at AIIMS. But the company on May 12 said the best approach for India to participate in a remdesivir clinical trial is through WHO’s ‘solidarity trial’ being undertaken in multiple countries, including India, in which remdesivir is one of the five drugs being tried.The Indian Council of Medical Research had earlier said anti-viral medication remdesivir which was used during Ebola outbreak may inhibit the SARS-CoV-2 replication and research on its efficacy in the treatment of Covid-19 is a part of the WHO’s ‘solidarity trial.’ According to a recently published study in the New England Journal of Medicine, two out of three critically ill coronavirus patients who were on oxygen support or on ventilators showed signs of improvement when they were administered remdesivir.The New Drug and Clinical Trial Rules, 2019, provides for certain clauses, according to which the provision of waiver of local phase-III clinical trials of the drug is approved and marketed in certain countries (as notified from time to time) subject to certain conditions and confirming conduct of phase-IV study, a source explained.The phase four study requirement could be reduced in case of drugs of special relevance, in case of unmet need, for rare disease for which drugs are not available or available at a high cost or orphan drugs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-pharma-firm-gilead-sciences-likely-to-seek-nod-to-market-anti-viral-drug-remdesivir-in-india/story-3MNfVJ9Zzy9OMyTJyOCVIO.html
21-05-2020||India||Concerns over Oil India’s bid to drill for hydrocarbons in Assam national park||Concerns have been raised about Oil India Limited’s (OIL) bid to drill for hydrocarbons in a national park in Assam after a similar ecological threat was perceived because of the central government’s recent approval for coal mining activities inside an elephant reserve in Upper Assam.On May 11, the Union Ministry for Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) gave green clearance for the extension drilling and testing of hydrocarbons at seven locations by OIL under Dibru-Saikhowa National Park area in Assam’s Tinsukia district.The MoEFCC clearance comes close on the heels of the National Board of Wild Life’s (NBWL) approval on April 17, allowing Coal India Limited to carry out opencast and underground coal mining in a portion of the Dehing Patkai Elephant Reserve in the state. An online campaign has been launched by the state’s college students to stop the move.Spread over 340 square kilometres, Dibru-Saikhowa is one of the five national parks in the north-east region’s most populous state. The park, which is also a biosphere reserve, is home to 36 mammal species including tiger, Gangetic dolphin, feral horses, etc. and 382 bird species.Concerns about OIL’s drilling plan emerged on social media platforms after the company published an advertisement in newspapers recently citing the MoEFCC’s clearance for the project.OIL reacted to the growing apprehensions and issued a press release on Wednesday, clarifying that it would not operate inside the national park and the drilling would have no ecological impact.“It has been observed that post the publication of the advertisement, certain sections of the stakeholders have expressed their concern assuming that OIL will be operating inside the national park,” the release said.“OIL will not enter the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park area and operations will be conducted through extended reach drilling (ERD) technology. ERD is used to explore for hydrocarbon far from the surface or areas of the reservoir, which are otherwise difficult to access,” it added. “With the use of ERD, wells can be drilled up to a depth of 4km from the existing well plinth without entering the protected area. Through ERD, OIL will reach the target depth of around 3.5km beneath the surface of the national park without carrying out any drilling inside the park,” the release said.“This is a state of the art technology where drilling will take place around 1.5km outside demarcated area of the national park where OIL is already carrying out hydrocarbon exploration for the last 15 years in the Baghjan area,” it said.“OIL once again reiterates that no disturbance to the environment and Dibru-Saikhowa National Park is envisaged due to the use of ERD technology,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/concerns-over-oil-india-s-bid-to-drill-for-hydrocarbons-in-assam-national-park/story-U81IdVut8cAuZwf5Kfo8KL.html
21-05-2020||India||Pakistan terror camps hit by coronavirus, Kashmiri trainees may die of Covid-19: DGP||The terrorist camps in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir have been hit by the coronavirus and some Kashmiris undergoing training in those camps could die of Covid-19 as “nobody bothers about them”, J&K Director General of Police Dilbag Singh has said.Citing an intercepted phone-call made by a trainee from his PoK camp to his family in Kashmir, Singh said there are fears that the desperate terrorists would try to infiltrate into Jammu and Kashmir and spread the deadly virus in the Valley.The revelation has come as intelligence agencies, too, say Pakistan is pushing militants infected with Covid-19 into Kashmir.“There are reports that somebody from a training camp in Pakistan, where he is being trained, made a call to his family members here (Kashmir), telling them that some of the trainees from Kashmir have been infected by the coronavirus,” the DGP told PTI in an interview.“He was telling them that some of them would die of the coronavirus in the training camps and nobody bothers about them,” he said.The phone-call has raised serious concerns that those who crossed the border would try to return due to the outbreak in the camps.“They are infected with coronavirus and if they come to this side (Kashmir), they will pass on the infection to other cadres. This is a very serious concern,” he said.Pakistan has reactivated at least 20 terror camps and another 20 launch pads along the Line of Control and increased its efforts since October last year to ensure infiltration of as many terrorists as possible into Jammu and Kashmir.The camps and launch pads, with at least 50 terrorists in each, were reactivated after remaining shut for months following the bombing of a CRPF bus in Pulwama in February 2019 and the subsequent retaliatory bombing of terror camps in Balakot by the Indian Air Force.The DGP said 250 to 325 terrorists were waiting on the launchpads to cross over to Jammu and Kashmir, where over 240 terrorists are already operating in hinterlands.On Wednesday, four terrorist associates of the Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba were arrested in Budgam district and arms and ammunition were seized from them, police said.The police chief also said the burial process of terrorists have been changed to avoid crowds due to the coronavirus pandemic. “The bodies of terrorists are being buried away from crowds,” he said.“We don’t want a large number of the people to unnecessarily gather. That was a serious violation of Covid-19 (protocols), so we revised our drills,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-terror-camps-hit-by-coronavirus-kashmiri-trainees-may-die-of-covid-19-dgp/story-nO0S6luA0Uvxq2e1Iz56eI.html
21-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan hit 44.8 lakh people, damaged power infrastructure in Odisha||Nearly 45 lakh people in Odisha have been affected by the extremely severe cyclonic storm Amphan, which fiercely rolled past the state coast and made a landfall in the Sunderbans, uprooting trees and flattening fragile dwellings, a senior official said on Thursday.The power infrastructure and the farm sector have also suffered a considerable damage, Chief Secretary A K Tripathy said. However officials said the telecom infrastructure is largely intact.The cyclonic storm, which triggered heavy rains and accompanied high-velocity winds gusting up to 190 kmph in coastal areas, made a landfall in the Sunderbans in West Bengal on Wednesday evening. It has weakened significantly since making the landfall and moved to Bangladesh as a cyclonic storm.On Thursday, Chief Secretary Tripathy attended a video conference with Union Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba and informed him about the damage caused by Amphan (Sky).He said the cyclone has affected over 44.80 lakh people in 1,500 gram panchayats, despite the Odisha government evacuating around 2 lakh people from vulnerable areas ahead of the landfall.Tripathy said the restoration work is in underway on a war-footing, particularly in Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Bhadrak and Balasore, and road connectivity is likely to be restored shortly.But it will take a day or two to fully restore the power supply, he said.Revenue Minister Sudam Marndi said about 1 lakh hectares of standing crops have been damaged.District collectors have been asked to send submit initial damage assessment reports in two days and send detailed reports about the extent of damage to agriculture and horticulture after that, he said.Though the cyclone did not directly hit Odisha, it uprooted a large number of trees, electric poles and flattened thatched and mud houses as it hurtled towards West Bengal.Another senior official said electricity supply to 34 lakh consumers, including 1.63 lakh of power distribution company SOUTHCO, 15 lakh of NESCO and 17 lakh of CESU, has been hit. However, electricity was restored in SOUTHCO areas and in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack.Special Relief Commissioner P K Jena said disaster response teams and fire department personnel were working to restore road communication on a war footing.Jena said about 90 per cent of telecom towers/infrastructure are intact.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-hit-44-8-lakh-people-damaged-power-infrastructure-in-odisha/story-SXfpD1tTHVnWecMwXagZQJ.html
21-05-2020||India||Kerala’s concerns rise after 24 people who returned turn Covid-19 positive||Kerala reported 24 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, all of whom had returned either from foreign countries or other Indian states, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said.Fourteen of the 24 had returned from foreign countries and 10 came from other states, he said.Out of a total of 690 cases so far, 177 are active while 510 people have been discharged from hospitals while four have died, Vijayan said, adding that the rising number was a real concern. Kerala, which has maintained good recovery and low mortality rates, is planning to strengthen its surveillance measures following a steady rise in Covid-19 cases.Cases went up sharply in the state with the arrival of expatriates and people stranded in other parts of the country. At least 78,000 have returned to the state by rail, air and road in the last two weeks and more than 90 per cent of the recent cases originated outside.“A big relief is that not a single case was reported due to local transmission. Eight people also recovered today. But the rising number is a big concern and we have to increase our surveillance,” the CM said.Vijayan warned that the state should brace itself for a situation given the rate of increase in new cases. But he reiterated that it was wrong to dub expatriates as super spreaders.With numbers rising the government has asked neibghbourhood watch committees and primary health workers to increase their house-level visits to ensure that returnees are adequately isolated in their homes. The government has received several complaints that people in home quarantine interact with other family members regularly.On Wednesday, Vijayan had made it clear that home quarantine meant room quarantine and those undergoing it will have to be barred from interacting with other family members at home.A senior health official said the state is desperate to contain secondary infections but it was a tightrope walk between “imported cases” and all-out containment strategies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-s-concerns-rise-after-24-people-who-returned-turn-covid-19-positive/story-PIP059ZhtKcOERLJSxaWiN.html
21-05-2020||India||Defence more aggravated than other sectors amid Covid-19, says Rajnath Singh||Amid Covid-19 lockdown, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said that the defence sector is “more aggravated” than other sectors as the only buyer of Defence products is the government.Acknowledging the hardships faced by the Defence industry, Rajnath Singh said, “Manufacturing sector has been affected the most due to lockdown and disruption in existing supply chains and the defence sector is no exception to this. Rather, it can be said that the Defence sector is more aggravated than other sectors as the only buyer of defence products is the government.”The Minister was addressing, via video conference, MSMEs E-conclave, jointly organised by SIDM, Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and Department of Defence Production.The Defence Minister appreciated the role played by Society of Indian Defence Manufacturers (SIDM) and other Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in Nation’s fight against global Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.“I am very happy to know that SIDM has accelerated the manufacturing of DRDO (Defence Research and Development Organisation) designed PPE (Personal Protective Equipment) kits, masks, ventilator parts in the field of defence industry by efficient coordination and channelisation. Within less than two months, we have not only met our domestic demand, but we can also think of helping neighbouring countries in the coming time,” he said.Singh termed MSMEs backbone of the Indian economy that accelerate GDP growth, earn valuable foreign exchange through exports and provide employment opportunities.“There are more than 8,000 MSMEs, tiered partners of many of our organisations - Ordnance factories, DPSUs and service organisations. They contribute more than 20 per cent of the total production of these organisations,” he said. The Defence Minister assured that the ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ campaign, inspired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, will provide many opportunities to Indian industry and will help in restoring millions of jobs.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called for being ‘vocal for local’ in this direction. I would like to say that we have to have our indigenous products, ie ‘vocal for local’, but before that in our own life, ‘local’ has to be focal. That is, we have to adopt ‘swadeshi’ products in our life. There is no doubt that MSMEs have a very important role in the goal of indigenous manufacturing, and in the goal of self-reliant India,” he said. He also mentioned some of the measures announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman under ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ scheme.The theme of the E-conclave was ‘Business Continuity for MSMEs in Defence & Aerospace Sector’ in which more than 800 Defence MSMEs participated.Citing the example of the United States where domestic defence industry developed within a short span of two years during the World War-II, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat said India should have its own defence industry. He urged the MSMEs to work for placing India among the top ten nations in defence technologies.Secretary (Defence Production), Raj Kumar in his address highlighted the measures taken to alleviate the hardships faced by defence manufacturing industry due to Covid-19. He said the DPSUs have been asked to clear payments of MSMEs, and also announced that their production targets have not been scaled down.Citing the reforms recently announced by the Finance Minister, he said these measures will help realise the target of achieving a USD 25 billion defence production by 2025. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-more-aggravated-than-other-sectors-amid-covid-19-says-rajnath-singh/story-uzWwe74rgxZIDg1r4i0EfL.html
21-05-2020||India||Withdraw FIR against Sonia Gandhi, D K Shivakumar tells B S Yediyurappa||Karnataka’s Congress chief D K Shivakumar has written to chief minister B S Yediyurappa asking that an FIR filed by the police against party president Sonia Gandhi after a complaint by an advocate for allegedly harming the reputation of the Prime Minister, be withdrawn.The FIR was filed on Wednesday following a complaint by a lawyer named K V Praveen Kumar against Sonia Gandhi after a tweet on the Congress party official Twitter handle dubbed the PM CARES fund as PM CARES fraud and said the PM was travelling abroad for enjoyment utilising these funds.Praveen claimed that this was incorrect and harmful to the reputation of the PM. The police in Sagar registered an FIR on his complaint.Shivakumar in his letter to Yediryurappa claimed that Praveen Kumar was a BJP activist. “Smt Sonia Gandhiji being an MP and Congress President had tweeted with the intention of forcing the PM to use the Care Fund for the welfare of the people of the country. Unfortunately, this was misinterpreted by the BJP leadership and it instigated Praveen Kumar to file this complaint ...based on false information without examining its truthfulness.”The KPCC President also went onto claim that the FIR against Sonia Gandhi was a blatant misuse of the process of law with an intention to snub the right to healthy criticism and demanded that the it be withdrawn and the police officer concerned be suspended.The state government has not yet reacted to Shivakumar’s letter.The complainant Praveen Kumar acknowledged that he is a BJP member.“Yes it is true I am a primary member of BJP but I have no official party position. I have been an advocate for 14 years and have always fought against lies and injustice which is the reason why I lodged the complaint and I am happy the police have found some merit in it because an FIR has been registered.” Efforts to reach Sagar police for comments were not successful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/withdraw-fir-against-sonia-gandhi-d-k-shivakumar-tells-b-s-yediyurappa/story-byVYIk418hBFH3ZTad3KPP.html
21-05-2020||India||Rajasthan: Migrants not paid wages since lockdown started, reveal findings||The findings of the labour organisations and district legal service authorities (DLSAs) in Rajasthan have revealed that 90% of labourers have not been paid their wages since lockdown restrictions were enforced in the desert state in mid-March to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Labourers have been denied their wages, despite Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal in a pre-nationwide lockdown address to the public on March 20.The common findings of DLSA Bikaner, Jodhpur, Ajmer, Jaipur rural, Sirohi, Baran, Alwar and Udaipur, which HT has seen, reveal that most of the labourers are facing a massive cash crunch.Rajasthan state legal service authority (SLSA), secretary, Ashok Jain, said that on March 28 all the DLSAs were instructed to help stranded migrants. On May 14, they were instructed to investigate whether migrant workers received the relief provided by the state government, he added.“Shelter, food and home are covered under Article 21 of the Constitution. There’re reports that the labourers have been badly hit, despite the state government’s efforts. In a bid to assess the ground reality, investigations are being carried out across the state,” said Jain.A senior state government official said around four lakh stranded labourers, who came back to their native places, are finding it difficult to get any employment amid the pandemic.Harkesh Bugaliya, general secretary, Rajasthan Nirman Evam General Workers’ Union, said around 2.5 lakh workers are desperately looking for an alternate source of income in Jaipur alone, as they have run of money since the lockdown started.“Labourers in Jaipur waited for 15 days and hoped to get paid at least a part of their wages. But they got nothing,” Bugaliya said.Rajesh Yagyesh, president, Bandhua Mukti Morcha, said around eight lakh labourers are living in Alwar, a major industrial corridor for Rajasthan and also neighbouring Haryana and Delhi.“The owners of factories, mines and industries in Alwar paid these labourers their wages for March and told them to leave, as they cannot afford to pay them anymore because of the losses suffered due to lockdown restrictions,” said Yagyesh.He said the humanitarian crisis involving the migrant labourers could have been averted had the central government given a prior notice of three-four days instead of only four hours before enforcing the nationwide lockdown restrictions from March 25.Rana Sengupta, chief executive of the Jodhpur-based non-profit Mine Labour Protection Campaign, said that though there are boards to safeguard the interests of construction workers, the mining sector has no such mechanism. “The labourers in the mining sector are paid wages every fortnight. In Rajasthan, the lockdown was imposed on March 15 and because of which around 30 lakh labourers, who are engaged in the mining sectors, have not been paid their wages since then,” Sengupta said.Niraj K Pawan, secretary, labour, employment, skill and entrepreneurship, said though there have been complaints that labourers have not been paid their April wages, all dues were cleared before the lockdown was imposed.“We accept that there are issues, but we’re trying to resolve them at the earliest,” said Pawan.State chief minister Ashok Gehlot had also directed officials a few days ago to set up an online employment exchange for labourers to help them get jobs during the lockdown. The CM had said that the exchange would meet industries’ requirements by providing manpower and had ordered an online mapping of both domestic and outstation workers, including those engaged in the realty sector.He had held a review meeting of the labour department and advocated the growing need to support the labourers in their hour of crisis.“The need of the hour is new projects of skill development in a bid to retool the labourers in line with the emerging trends,” Gehlot had said.Pankaj Meena, a state spokesperson for the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), defended the central government’s bid to impose nationwide lockdown restrictions.“Our PM has announced relief packages for the unorganised sector,” Meena said.Archana Sharma, a state spokesperson, Congress, said though the financial condition of some industries are good, micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) are badly hit because of the Goods and Services Tax (GST). “Labourers should be paid their wages on humanitarian ground,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-migrants-not-paid-wages-since-lockdown-started-reveal-findings/story-S7XVfBsBa1OKJjjdlmzJaJ.html
21-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan latest: 72 dead in West Bengal, additional NDRF teams being sent||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has said that Cyclone Amphan has taken 72 lives in the state. The West Bengal government has announced Rs 2 lakh compensation for the next of kin of those killed in the devastation unleashed by the super cyclone, reported PTI.Mamata Banerjee also invited prime minister Narendra Modi to visit Bengal to witness the scale of destruction caused by the cyclone.“I would request Prime Minister Narendra Modi to come and visit Cyclone Amphan-affected areas,” Banerjee was quoted as saying by PTI.Earlier today, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had assured that the country stands in solidarity with the state of West Bengal in this hour of grief. He added that the centre was making all efforts to help normalize the situation.“Have been seeing visuals from West Bengal on the devastation caused by Cyclone Amphan. In this challenging hour, the entire nation stands in solidarity with West Bengal. Praying for the well-being of the people of the state. Efforts are on to ensure normalcy, Prime Minister had said in a tweet. Have been seeing visuals from West Bengal on the devastation caused by Cyclone Amphan. In this challenging hour, the entire nation stands in solidarity with West Bengal. Praying for the well-being of the people of the state. Efforts are on to ensure normalcy.Similar assurance of cooperation was offered by home minister Amit Shah who said the centre was closely monitoring the situation while promising all possible help.The death toll has been revised by the state after it initially reported the loss of around 12 lives in the mayhem caused by the cyclone, one of the strongest to have hit Bengal in the recent memory. CM Mamata Banerjee is meeting with the state task force to make a preliminary assessment of the damage. She had earlier said that it would take at least three to four days to completely assess the destruction caused as several areas in the state are totally cut off.The storm began its landfall at 2:30 pm on Wednesday with sustained wind speeds of 155-165 kmph spiralling up to 185 kmph, causing widespread damage to people, cultivation and structures.The cylone has now crossed Bengal and is stationed over Bangladesh, however, it is expected to cause mild to heavy rains in the northeastern states of the country.The cabinet secretary held a meeting of National Crisis Management Committee to review the post-cyclone situation on Thursday. Chief secretaries of West Bengal and Odisha were present. The NCMC decided to send additional teams of the NDRF to Bengal for restoration and relief work.The Director General of the National Disaster Relief Force (NDRF) said that soon after Cyclone Amphan hit the state of Bengal, NDRF teams fanned out and started rescue work in the eveningHe added that the situation in Odisha was under control and there was hope that life in the state will be back to normal in 24 - 48 hours.Cyclone Amphan also caused destruction and loss of at least three lives in Odisha as it brushed past the state to make a landfall between coastal West Bengal and Bangladesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-latest-72-dead-in-west-bengal-additional-ndrf-teams-being-sent/story-QAo3bk4i1NcFzInS3aXu2O.html
21-05-2020||India||Heat wave in northwest, central and south India as Cyclone Amphan exits||Most parts of the country will experience the indirect impact of Super Cyclone Amphan, which weakened into a deep depression on Thursday and sent the maximum summer temperatures soaring. India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Thursday said there will be a two-four degrees Celsius rise in maximum temperature over northwest, central and west India in the next to three days.IMD has warned of a heatwave over Rajasthan between Thursday and Monday; western Madhya Pradesh (MP), Vidarbha, and Telangana from Thursday and Sunday; over coastal Andhra Pradesh, north interior Karnataka, and Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, and Karaikal from Thursday to Saturday, over east Madhya Pradesh and Rayalseema and over Uttar Pradesh (UP) from Friday to Sunday.A feeble Western Disturbance is expected to impact Western Himalayas on Friday, which is likely to bring rain and thundershowers to Jammu and Kashmir; Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand and light thundershowers to Haryana, Punjab, and Delhi but maximum temperatures are likely to rise even in the northern plains, IMD scientists said.In May, the maximum temperature Delhi recorded was on May 10 at 40.9 degrees Celsius, two degrees above normal.According to Skymet Weather, “heatwave conditions are likely over Delhi and Haryana also after two to three days.”“There are two important factors — one is there is no clouding. There are clear skies almost all over the country except where the cyclone or depression is. The other reason is there is advection, wind patterns have changed after the cyclone. Hot, dry north-westerly winds are blowing even over peninsular India, which makes conditions favourable for heatwaves. Eastern MP, Rajasthan, UP, parts of peninsular India are all likely to develop heatwave like conditions now. There is no major weather system that can cause clouding. The impact of western disturbances will also gradually reduce now leading to higher temperatures in northwest India including Delhi,” said K Sathi Devi, head, National Weather Forecasting Centre.The highest temperatures recorded on May 20 were in Barmer in west Rajasthan and Akola in Vidarbha at 44.2 degrees Celsius. There are two criteria for the recording of heatwaves—when the maximum temperature is at least 40 degrees Celsius and departure from normal is 4.5 degrees Celsius to 6.4 degrees Celsius. A heatwave is also declared when the maximum temperature is over 45 degrees Celsius for two stations in a sub-division for two days.“Because of cyclone Amphan, all the moisture is concentrated around it while dry, north-westerly winds are blowing over the rest of the country which causes temperatures to peak gradually,” said Sunita Devi, who is in-charge of cyclones at IMD.Not just the rest of May but even June could be very hot in many parts of the country. “If there is no western disturbance, north-west India will be hot even in June. Hot winds from desert regions will heat up the region as wind patterns have changed after Amphan,” said DS Pai, senior scientist at IMD Pune.Amphan led to an early onset of the southwest monsoon over the Andaman and Nicobar islands last Sunday where the low pressure before the formation of the super cyclone made conditions favourable for monsoon advancement. The northern limit of monsoon (NLM) continues to pass through Car Nicobar. It is likely to make an onset over Kerala on June 5, a delay of four days compared to the normal onset date of June 1. “After a cyclone passes, the atmosphere is disturbed. It takes time to come back to normal. Monsoon advancement can begin normally only when normal atmospheric and wind conditions are restored. The westerly hot winds also impact most parts of the country,” said M Mohapatra, director-general, IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heat-wave-in-northwest-central-and-south-india-as-cyclone-amphan-exits/story-mrULcjv11dfTWl2my43vMO.html
21-05-2020||India||China creating hindrance in patrolling along Line of Actual Control, says govt||India on Thursday strongly refuted China’s contention that tensions in the Ladakh and Sikkim sectors were triggered by Indian troops crossing the Line of Actual Control (LAC), even as it accused Chinese forces of hindering patrols on the Indian side.The Indian side said it is committed to peace and tranquillity along the border, but will take all steps to safeguard the country’s sovereignty and security. The remarks by external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava came against the backdrop of continuing tensions along the LAC, especially in Galwan Valley of Ladakh, where both sides have deployed additional troops.New Delhi’s first official reaction to the tensions came a day after India was strongly supported by the US, with top American diplomat Alice Wells saying such disputes are a “reminder of the threat posed by China”.In Beijing, foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian reiterated that Indian troops had trespassed across the LAC and dismissed Wells’ remarks as “just nonsense”. India should work with China and “refrain from unilateral actions” that complicate the situation, he said.Also Watch | Covid update: India’s flights to resume; Nepal PM’s remark; China shows new signs China’s foreign ministry side had first accused Indian troops of trespassing across the LAC in a statement to Hindustan Times on Tuesday, saying Beijing had to take “necessary countermeasures” after the Indian side allegedly obstructed normal patrols by Chinese troops.Asked about China’s position on the stand-off in Ladakh, external affairs ministry spokesperson Srivastava told an online news briefing: “Any suggestion that Indian troops had undertaken activity across the LAC in the western [Ladakh] sector or the Sikkim sector is not accurate.”Srivastava added: “All Indian activities are entirely on the Indian side of the LAC. In fact, it is [the] Chinese side that has recently undertaken activity hindering India’s normal patrolling patterns.”Indian troops, he said, “scrupulously” abide by the alignment of the LAC and all Indian activities “are entirely on the Indian side of the LAC”. The Indian side has a “very responsible approach towards border management”, and is “deeply committed to ensuring India’s sovereignty and security”, he added.Indian troops strictly follow procedures in bilateral agreements and protocols to resolve situations arising from differences in perception of the LAC, Srivastava said. “The two sides have established mechanisms to resolve such situations peacefully through dialogue. Both sides remain engaged with each other to address any immediate issues,” he said.In line with the consensus reached during the second India-China informal summit in Mamallapuram last year, the Indian side is firmly committed to the common objective of maintaining peace and tranquillity on the border, and this is an “essential prerequisite to the further development of...bilateral relations”, Srivastava said.During an online briefing for journalists on Wednesday, Alice Wells, the outgoing head of the US state department’s South and Central Asian bureau, had said the border tensions were a reminder that “Chinese aggression is not always rhetorical”, and China’s “provocations and disturbing behaviour” raised questions about how Beijing seeks to use its growing power.Responding to her remarks at a regular news briefing, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao said: “The [US] diplomat’s remarks are just nonsense. China’s position on the China-India boundary issue is consistent and clear. China’s border troops firmly safeguard China’s territorial sovereignty and security and firmly dealt with the Indian side’s cross-over and infringement activities.”Zhao added, “We urge the Indian side to work together with us, abide by our leadership’s important consensus, comply with the agreements signed, refrain from unilateral actions complicating the situation.”He further said, “We hope they will make concrete efforts for peace and tranquillity in the border region. There are consultations and diplomatic channels between the two sides that have nothing to do with the US.”Earlier this month, Indian and Chinese troops were involved in clashes in the Sikkim and Ladakh sectors that left several soldiers on both sides injured. The clashes were resolved at the level of local commanders, but both sides rushed in hundreds of soldiers as reinforcements, especially in Galwan Valley.Reports have suggested that the Chinese side deployed troops and heavy equipment that were involved in an exercise to beef up positions in the Ladakh sector. China’s state-run media has described the latest tensions as the worst since the 2017 Doklam stand-off, which lasted 73 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-side-creating-hindrance-in-regular-patrolling-by-india-along-the-line-of-actual-control-says-mea-spokesperson/story-c8dox2GtJufrHHiLjbXOvM.html
21-05-2020||India||Lockdown implementation effective in keeping Covid numbers low: Health ministry||The Union Ministry of Health & Family Welfare (MoH&FW) on Wednesday issued a statement and defended the nationwide lockdown restrictions enforced on March 25 in a bid to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, “as the period has been gainfully utilised to ramp up the health infrastructure in the country”.The ministry was responding to reports that claimed that lockdown has been largely ineffective.“This is not correct to say. The idea was to work towards improving healthcare services in a bid to ensure that all those who need treatment get it in time,” said a senior health ministry official, requesting anonymityBoth Central and state governments have earmarked 3,027 dedicated Covid-19 hospitals and health centres along with 7,013 Covid-19 care centres across the country.In all the dedicated health facilities together there are 2.81 lakh isolation beds, 31,250 intensive care unit beds, and 11,387 oxygen- supported beds.“India has managed to put up a better fight against Covid-19, as compared to many other developed and developing countries. Of the one-lakh cases, we have sent a significant number (over 40,000) home after treatment, and most of the remaining 60,000 people are also on road to recovery. As far as Covid-19-related deaths are concerned, India has managed to keep the mortality rate also low, as compared to other countries. We’re doing fine,” said Union health minister, Harsh Vardhan, during an event on reaching 10 million Ayushman Bharat beneficiaries. The Centre has supplied 65 lakh personal protection equipment (PPE) coveralls, and 101.07 lakh N-95 masks to the states. From importing most of the PPE components, India has successfully identified domestic manufacturers and is producing nearly three lakh PPE coveralls and an equal number of N-95 masks in the country.“This is a remarkable achievement. It was made possible because the government had time to prepare for an infrastructure upgrade. The country is fully prepared to manage the situation if the cases were to surge. We are comfortably placed at the moment. There is no need to panic,” said the ministry official. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) constituted a National Task Force that has held 20 meetings since mid-March and is responsible for taking scientific and technical decisions in managing the viral outbreak.“A well-coordinated approach has been adopted to activate the scientific community of the country, who are contributing by working round the clock to develop new testing kits, protective equipment, respiratory devices, etc. This approach has helped in providing a common platform for sharing of best practices, a collaboration of work, development of need-based innovations, and in avoiding duplication of research work,” said the ministry in a statement.“With the help of institutions under the department of science and technology (DST) and sister ministries, DST is taking the lead in coordinating the effort to map and upscale appropriate technologies in India for addressing a plethora of issues related to Covid-19. The department of biotechnology and its public sector unit (PSU), Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC) has announced a Covid-19 research consortium call to support diagnostics, vaccines, novel therapeutics, repurposing of drugs or any other intervention for control of Covid-19,” it added.Experts also agree that India’s low numbers are because of the preventive steps taken at an initial stage when the viral outbreak was reported.“The lockdown was supposed to buy us time, which it has managed to do. Now, we need to consolidate the gains. People will need to incorporate the behavioural changes for good such as avoid attending mass gatherings, wearing masks, maintaining hygiene, following cough etiquettes, staying at home if feeling unwell etc.,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of department, community medicine, Vardhman Mahavir Medical College and Safdarjung Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-implementation-effective-in-keeping-covid-numbers-low-health-ministry/story-aPh1r7ZOum6dOF7dKky9ZP.html
21-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan: Private aircraft, hangar at Kolkata airport damaged, says Air India CMD||A small private aircraft which was parked in a hangar has been damaged due to Cyclone Amphan, said Rajiv Bansal, Chairman and Managing Director (CMD) of Air India.“Our two aircraft parked at a Kolkata airport were not damaged. There is some damage to the hangar. A small private aircraft that was parked in the hangar has been damaged,” Bansal said in a press briefing here.The Kolkata airport was flooded due to heavy rain after Cyclone Amphan made landfall in coastal regions of Odisha and West Bengal on May 20.Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee informed that 72 people have died in West Bengal so far and announced a compensation of Rs 2.5 lakh to the families of the deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-private-aircraft-hangar-at-kolkata-airport-damaged-says-air-india-cmd/story-hH81HgRhsAH2H3Jds6s0YP.html
21-05-2020||India||‘Just nonsense’: China disses US official for dart over Sino-India border tension||China on Thursday said it was “just nonsense” that the US was weighing in on the recent Sino-India border tension, adding that its soldiers were within its rights to deal with what Beijing claimed, were boundary infringements by India troops..The Chinese foreign ministry said there were established communication channels between India and China and the USA should steer clear.The angry remark was directed at Alice G. Wells, an Asia-focussed US diplomat, who had cited tension at some places in Sikkim and Ladakh over the last few days that she said, signalled China’s “provocations and disturbing behaviour”.Indian and Chinese border troops have been involved in standoffs earlier this month near the Sikkim and Ladakh borders, part of the long boundary dispute involving the two neighbours.Alice G. Wells, the outgoing head of the US state department’s South and Central Asia bureau, had referenced these reports.“This is a reminder that Chinese aggression is not always rhetorical and whether it’s in the South China Sea or whether it’s along the border with India, we continue to see provocations and disturbing behaviour by China that raises questions about how China seeks to use its growing power,” the US official had said.Wells’ remarks were picked up by the Chinese foreign ministry for censure on Thursday. In the process, spokesperson Zhao Lijian also repeated that it was the Indian side that had trespassed.“The (US) diplomat’s remarks are just nonsense. China’s position on the China-India boundary issue is consistent and clear. China’s border troops (were) firmly safeguard China’s territorial sovereignty and security and firmly dealt with the Indian side’s cross over and infringement activities,” Zhao said on Thursday at the regular ministry briefing.Chinese troops, he said, “firmly” safeguard the peace and stability in the border region.“We urge the Indian side to work together with us, abide by our leadership’s important consensus, comply with the agreements signed, refrain from unilateral actions complicating the situation,” the spokesperson said.“We hope they will make concrete efforts for peace and tranquility in the border region. There are consultations and diplomatic channels between the two sides that have nothing to do with the USA,” Zhao added.In the Galwan Valley region of the Ladakh sector, China’s People’s Liberation Army had brought in reinforcements, pitched close to 100 tents and erected temporary positions as part of efforts to establish a presence there. The Indian side had responded by raising the presence of its soldiers.The latest rounds of face-off between Indian and Chinese border troops were seemingly resolved at the level of the local commanders, and were not allowed to escalate.But analysts have indicated that there may be more such incidents, particularly since both sides are expected to build more infrastructure and facilities and fortify or repair existing ones along the long border in summer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/just-nonsense-china-disses-us-official-for-dart-over-sino-india-border-tension/story-Qso1PSmlyDfL67gg4EwKsK.html
21-05-2020||India||‘Saved from starvation’: MP minister hails farmers during Covid-19 pandemic||The Madhya Pradesh government said initiatives such as the amendment to the Madhya Pradesh Krishi Upaj Mandi Act will help blunt the economic slump caused by the corona pandemic as it will empower the farmers and cut their dependence on middle men to get fair price for the produce.Agriculture minister Kamal Patel, who completed a month in office on Thursday, said the state is focusing on the agri-sector to generate revenue and jobs.“A lot of people think it is udyog (industry) that keeps the economy afloat, but this pandemic has proved that it is the farmers who have saved us from starvation and the sector has generated jobs,” he said.Even as the government faced criticism for bringing an ordinance to do away with labour laws for the first thousand days to attract new investors, Patel said the government wants to empower the farmers and weed out middlemen.“The decision to set up agriculture marketing yards and letting farmers sell their produce from their farms will change the lot of the farmers. They will no longer be at the mercy of middlemen who made profits while the farmers took home a pittance,” he said.Even as farmers’ groups associated with the Bharatiya Kisan Sangh complained of having to sell their produce at much lower rates and tonnes of milk being discarded in the absence of demand, Patel said the Mandi act amendment will boost income since the farmers now have the option of selling their produce at higher rates.“Farmers can even set up their own private mandis, warehouses and cold storages. With one licence they will be able to sell wherever they want. We have also bought milk from the farmers and made powder worth crores that will be sold once all restrictions are lifted,” the minister said.To a question on whether the government has addressed concerns of farmers who were opposed to the limits set for the purchase at mandis, he said efforts are underway to see that the interest of the farmers with smaller holdings are as protected as those of bigger farmers.He also ruled out that the agri-sector will face labour shortage as migrant workers from UP, Bihar and Jharkhand are heading back to their native places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saved-from-starvation-mp-minister-hails-farmers-during-covid-19-pandemic/story-7AQErwRk3Nhg8HwzGlykAO.html
21-05-2020||India||News updates form Hindustan Times: Delhi sees biggest single-day spike in coronavirus cases and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.With 571 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, Delhi sees biggest single-day spike; tally at 11,659Delhi has witnessed highest single-day spike in coronavirus cases with 571 new Covid-19 infections reported in the last 24 hours, Delhi health department said on Thursday. With this, the Covid-19 tally in the national capital jumps to 11,659. The number of coronavirus fatalities in Delhi has gone up to 194. Read more1 cop killed, another injured after terrorists attack patrol party in Jammu and Kashmir’s PulwamaOne policeman was killed and another injured in an attack on the security forces in South Kashmir’s Pulwama. The attack took place at Pulwama’s Prichoo area on Thursday. Read more‘More trains soon, bookings at railway counters in 2-3 days’: Piyush GoyalThere will be resumption of more trains soon, announced railway minister Piyush Goyal, stressing that it is time to take the country towards normalcy after weeks of lockdown due to coronavirus. Read moreIn new flight rules, airfare fixed by govt, only one check-in bag allowedAbout a third of operations will be allowed when domestic flights resume next week and the upper and lower limit of airfares will be prescribed by the government, according to the civil aviation ministry’s standard operating procedures for the airlines. Read moreCovid-19: China vaccine maker inks Canada deal to develop second shotLeading Chinese vaccine developer CanSino Biologics Inc. has inked a deal to test and sell a separate Canadian vaccine candidate as the race for immunization intensifies globally. Read morePompeo calls China coronavirus response ‘paltry’ compared to damage doneUS Secretary of State Mike Pompeo took fresh aim at China over the coronavirus on Wednesday, calling the $2 billion Beijing has pledged to fight the pandemic “paltry” compared to the hundreds of thousands of lives lost and trillions of dollars of damage. Read moreNew Pentagon report says Pakistan continues to harbour Taliban, Haqqani NetworkPakistan continues to focus on countering Indian influence in Afghanistan and harbours the Taliban and groups such as the Haqqani Network, which have the ability to engage in violence on Afghan soil, according to a new Pentagon report. Read moreCalifornia man is ‘marrying’ his cat for this special reasonDressed in white with pink and white flowers down her back, this bride is all set for upcoming wedding. She said ‘yes to the dress’ and also to her groom who seems more than excited for their wedding. Read more‘Ticket bookings to open, more trains to be announced’: Railway MinisterRailway Minister Piyush Goyal on Thursday said booking of train tickets will resume at around 1.7 lakh common service centres across the country from Friday, making the service accessible to those in remote locations where the availability of computers and internet is negligible or absent. Read moreMiley Cyrus’ pixie mullet is proof her mother cuts hair better than yoursFrom her Hanna Montana days all the way up to the present, Miley Cyrus’ experimentation with her looks and career, be it her hair, fashion sense, music, lyrics, you name it, has had the most range, and there can be no denying. Read moreSports Authority of India issues SOP for phased resumption of trainingThe Sports Authority of India has worked out a Standard Operating Procedure for the return of training of the athletes. SAI is looking to start training at dedicated centres and other facilities and they have now listed out the SOPs for the safety of the athletes. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-form-hindustan-times-delhi-sees-biggest-single-day-spike-in-coronavirus-cases-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ibfxsefKhLWe8JSulAzKEL.html
21-05-2020||India||Odisha govt thanks IMD chief for accurate forecast of Cyclone Amphan||The Odisha government on Thursday showered praises on the India Meteorological Department (IMD), saying weather forecast is getting better with time, a day after cyclone ‘Amphan’ rolled past its coast causing minimal damage in the state. The government thanked IMD’s Director General Mrutyunjay Mohapatra for accurate predictions. The IMD’s predictions on the cyclone’s trajectory, wind speed as well as its character in sea and impact were “to the point” and “accurate” which helped the state in making required preparation to face the calamity, Odisha’s Chief Secretary A K Tripathy said.Also Watch | Cyclone Amphan leaves trail of destruction in Odisha & West Bengal  Stating that accurate forecast of the natural calamity is a great weapon to contain the damage to life and property, Tripathy said, “The IMD is valuable in this area and its forecast is getting better with time.” “We thank Mohapatra, the DG, and everyone in this valuable national body,” Tripathy told PTI. Odisha’s Additional Chief Secretary-cum-Special Relief Commissioner P K Jena, the officer responsible for the management of the cyclone, also acknowledged Mohapatra’s efforts. “I especially thank Mrutyunjay Mohapatra who time and again re-assured us to have complete faith in his prediction and forecast on cyclone ‘Amphan’,” he said. Noting that the Odisha administration was on its toes after getting information that a super cyclone was being formed in the Bay of Bengal, Jena said, “It was a sleepless night on Tuesday for all of us. Though IMD had given a clear picture, still we were apprehensive.” The SRC said he along with many others worked overnight monitoring the cyclone, which had gradually weakened into an extremely severe cyclonic storm in the sea. However, everyone was anxious about its movement and apprehensive whether the system would tilt towards the Odisha coast, he said. “My apprehensions were compounded when I received several telephone calls from different people that the cyclone may take a turn towards the Odisha coast instead of moving ahead on the trajectory shown by the IMD,” he said. Jena said he got anxious after Rohit Shukla, IMD’s Radar Centre in-charge at Paradip, told him that the system was taking a turn. “This information actually disturbed me further. The picture of the 1999 super cyclone came to my mind. Unable to resist my fear, I called up Mohapatra thrice between 3 am and 5 am on Wednesday morning to further verify whether the system will not change its path. He (Mohapatra) told me not to worry, the system will move exactly the path drawn by the IMD,” Jena said. Mohapatra assured the state government that the cyclone might tilt further into the sea and not towards the Odisha coast. “Finally, I stopped thinking in a negative way when Mohapatra said that the IMD has a special relationship with the Bay of Bengal and is well acquainted with its nature and character in the sea,” Jena said. After the cyclone went past several coastal districts, Jena said, “We found that IMD’s prediction was not only accurate, but exact. The impact was felt in specific blocks of certain districts as told by Mohapatra.” Happy over the IMD’s model, SRC Jena said that Mohapatra, also referred as the “cyclone man” of India, had made accurate predictions on ferocious cyclonic storms like Fani in 2019 and Phailin in 2013. The IMD had informed the state government that the wind speed at Paradip and Dhamara coast would be at around 135 kmph, he said. “We were prepared for the wind speed of 140 kmph. But actually it was within 110 kmph, which was a great relief for all of us,” Jena said. Mohapatra, who hails from Odisha’s cyclone-prone Bhadrak district, said the models used by the IMD were more accurate than others. “We had already predicted about the cyclone on May 13 and it took exactly the same trajectory and path as forecast by the IMD,” he told PTI. Apart from Mohapatra, NDRF DG S N Pradhan also swung into action as teams of the disaster response force were sent to Odisha and West Bengal for rescue and restoration operation. The SRC also thanked H R Biswas, the director of the Meteorological Centre in Bhubaneswar. Biswas is an eminent weather scientist and an expert in predicting volume of rainfall during cyclones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-govt-thanks-imd-chief-for-accurate-forecast-of-cyclone-amphan/story-afbVMgt8fh1eLnfXMFNZGM.html
21-05-2020||India||Limits on air fares set in seven bands as per flight durations: Hardeep Puri||Limits on air fares have been set in seven bands as per the flight durations and they would be in place till August 24, said Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Thursday.The minister said the first band, which would have its specific lower and upper limits of air fare, will consist of flights that are of less than 40 minutes duration. Second, third, fourth and fifth bands of upper limit would be of flights with durations of 40-60 minutes, 60-90 minutes, 90-120 minutes and 120-150 minutes, he said.The sixth and seventh bands would consist of flights with durations between 150-180 minutes and 180-210 minutes, he stated.Aviation Secretary P S Kharola, who was also present at the press conference, said 40 per cent of the seats would have to be sold at the mid-point of the lower and upper air fare limits set for the flights.The minister said he can’t comment right now on when flight operations would be restored completely.If a passenger does not have the Aarogya Setu app on her or his phone for some reason, she or he can give a self-declaration form, the minister said, adding that such a passenger will not be stopped from boarding the flight.The minister added that private carriers will join the Vande Bharat mission to repatriate Indians stranded abroad amid the coronavirus pandemic. Domestic flight operations will resume in India from May 25. All commercial passenger flights were suspended in the country from March 25, when the Modi government imposed a lockdown to curb the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/limits-on-air-fares-set-in-seven-bands-as-per-flight-durations-hardeep-puri/story-yl4Y0Z95z928fOj9XWRg9J.html
21-05-2020||India||72 died in Bengal due to Amphan, says CM Mamata, asks PM Modi to visit state||Hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted that the country stood in solidarity with cyclone-hit West Bengal, the state’s chief minister Mamata Banerjee requested him to pay a visit to see the havoc wreaked by the storm.“I would request Prime Minister Narendra Modi to come and visit Cyclone Amphan-affected areas” she said at a press briefing, according to PTI.She said 72 deaths have been reported due to Cyclone Amphan.Also read : NDMA advises people not to move out until govt’s green signal“There have been casualties.I announce a compensation of Rs 2.5 lakh to the families of those who died in cyclone Amphan,” she said.Also Watch | Cyclone Amphan leaves trail of destruction in Odisha & West Bengal Bengal is yet to decide on the losses it has suffered in the cyclone that made landfall Wednesday afternoon before heading away towards Bangladesh.Earlier in the day, the National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC) which reviewed the situation in the cyclone affected areas of Odisha and West Bengal decided to send additional teams of the NDRF to the latter to speed up restoration work, especially in Kolkata.Union home minister Amit Shah said he had spoken to the chief ministers of odisha and West Bengal about the situation arising due to the cyclone and assured all possible help from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-requests-pm-modi-to-visit-cyclone-hit-areas-in-bengal/story-vmeKChvUHTMzlo0GczeZkK.html
21-05-2020||India||The iftaar that never happened: BSF jawans were killed while buying bread||It was minutes before iftaar when terrorists on a motorcycle drove past a bakery in a busy market area firing bullets, instantly killing BSF constables Jia-ul-Haq and Rana Mondal while they were buying bread to break their Ramzan fast, officials said on Thursday.The attack took place on Wednesday evening, just days before Eid, in Soura on the outskirts of Srinagar. The Resistance Front (TRF), a shadow outfit of the Pakistan-based Lashker-e-Taiba, has claimed responsibility for the attack.  The terrorists pumped bullets into the two troopers at close range before disappearing into the bylanes of the congested locality, officials said. Haq and Mondal are from Murshidabad in West Bengal but their bodies can’t be sent back home because airports in the state are closed due to the havoc wreaked by Cyclone Amphan, officials said.Both Haq, 34, and Mondal, 29, received serious head injuries. The two friends from the 37th battalion of the BSF were posted in the Pandach camp, tasked with keeping a watch on the entry and exit to Srinagar from neighbouring Ganderbal district.      Recapping the events of the day, officials said Mondal and Haq were just minutes away from breaking their fast.But that never happened.They left the world without having a drop of water at the end of a long day of fasting, troopers in the 37th battalion BSF said, mourning the death of their two colleagues who went too soon.Haq, who joined the BSF in 2009, is survived by his parents, wife Nafsina Khatun and two daughters, four-year-old Zeshlin Jiul who is deaf mute, and Jennifer Jiul who is just six months old. He lived in Rezinagar, about 30 km from Murshidabad town. Mondal also leaves behind a six-month-old daughter as well as his parents and wife Jeshmin Khatun.He lived in Sahebrampur in Murshidabad   Both men had been posted in Kashmir since August 5 last year, when the Centre announced its decision to withdraw Jammu and Kashmir’s special status under Article 370 and to bifurcate it into the union territories of Ladakh, and Jammu and Kashmir. Eid will be celebrated on May 24 or 25, depending on the sighting of the moon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-iftaar-that-never-happened-bsf-jawans-were-killed-while-buying-bread/story-vkLvHsvAiNXb94qH2uIueI.html
21-05-2020||India||Zydus Cadila supplies 30,000 Covid Kavach Elisa test kits to ICMR for free||Drug firm Cadila Healthcare on Thursday said the first batch of 30,000 COVID Kavach Elisa tests manufactured by its arm Zydus Diagnostics have been supplied to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), free of cost. These test kits have been manufactured in technology transfer with ICMR-NIV of Pune for surveillance purposes, Cadila Healthcare said in a filing to BSE. Earlier, the company had partnered with ICMR to be better equipped against infectious disease outbreaks, and help people, who are at high risk, particularly in distant, remote areas of the country, the filing said. The company has been manufacturing and marketing a range of Elisa kits for detection and surveillance of rare and neglected diseases in humans and livestock, it added. Shares of Cadila Healthcare were trading at Rs 344 per scrip on BSE, up 1.91 per cent from its previous close.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-cadila-supplies-30-000-covid-kavach-elisa-test-kits-to-icmr-for-free/story-buj8IRQqSrLM7Oft8vGdrK.html
21-05-2020||India||Ranthambore tiger reserve has 18-35 caracals, says Rajasthan forest dept||Rajasthan’s Ranthambore tiger reserve has 18 to 35 caracals aka Siyagosh, a secretive wild cat, according to a report by the state’s forest department.The Indian caracal is an endangered animal and listed as a schedule-I species in the Wildlife Act, 1972. The caracal is a medium-sized wild cat native to Africa, the Middle East, Central Asia and India. It has a slender build, long legs, a short face, long tufted ears and long canine teeth.The report on status of species by Manoj Parashar, Field Director, Ranthambore Tiger Reserve states that the species earlier was found in drier parts of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Kutch but its habitation has now shrunk to parts of Rajasthan (Ranthambore tiger reserve) and Kutch in Gujarat.Only few records of the species have been reported annually, mainly in the Ranthambore landscape though it was also found in Sariska until recently. The decline in its population and distribution in India is a matter of concern.Parashar said caracals were tamed and used for hunting in ancient Egypt. In India caracals and cheetahs were tamed and trained for hunting small and large game respectively. In India caracal is known as “Siyagosh”. “The main threat to the species is the loss of habitat although there have been reports of retaliatory killing of the species by shepherds in Rajasthan as they are known to kill lambs and kids,” Parashar said.Typically nocturnal, the caracal is highly secretive and difficult to observe. It is territorial, and lives mainly alone or in pairs. The caracal is a carnivore that typically preys upon small mammals, birds, and rodents. “In Ranthambore tiger reserve seven species of wild cats are found, of which the caracal is the rarest and least known in terms of status and ecology,” states Parashar.The phase – IV monitoring in Ranthambore was conducted from January to April this year during which some of them were camera trapped.Parashar said there has been no proper attempt to estimate the abundance of caracals in any area. “It was decided that we will process our camera trap capture data to initiate some population estimation exercise and arrive at an estimate of individuals present in the area. Due to the presence of tigers outside the tiger reserve especially in Dholpur, Karauli and Bundi, camera trap data of these areas could also be included in this exercise,” he said.Based on the data from all the different camera trap stations, it was concluded that there were at least 18 different individuals and the population could range from 18 to 35 individuals.The forest department predicts that a sizeable population of caracals could be present in the adjoining forest areas of Karauli, Dholpur and Bundi as well as in the ravines of the National Gharial Sanctuary along the Chambal River.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ranthambore-tiger-reserve-has-18-35-caracals-says-rajasthan-forest-dept/story-lTvoBIgUYdhegD5tosuFYP.html
21-05-2020||India||Migrants drive the Covid-19 spiral in Rajasthan with 1,100 cases in 14 days||The numbers of Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan have seen a sharp rise since the beginning of May when the migrants began arriving. In the last two weeks, more than 1,100 new cases have been recorded in the state taking the tally to 6,146.Of these, 2,574 are active cases while 3,422 patients have recovered and 150 have died.Rajasthan was showing a decline in the number of active cases and the number of new infections were also coming down but the influx of migrants has sent it spiralling upwards and put pressure on the state’s health infrastructure, especially in rural areas, which were so far largely untouched by the disease.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has acknowledged that preventing the spread of the virus in rural areas as migrants return will be a challenge for the government.Health minister Raghu Sharma has said the government’s priority is quarantine and all those returning to the state will have to undergo 14-day compulsory quarantine.“Total focus of the health department is now on strengthening quarantine facilities. The migrants have to undergo the 14-day quarantine period compulsorily so that people in the state, who have been in lockdown and kept safe, do not get infected,” he said.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesAccording to the health department, the number of active cases in the state on April 21 was 1,435. On April 30, this figure went up to 1,633. On May 1, there was a drop in active cases to 1,488. It continued to decrease till May 7 when the number of cases stood at 1,439. Since then the graph of active cases has shown a continual rise.Dr Ravi Prakash Sharma, additional director, rural health, said active cases refer to those patients who have excess viral load and are infected with the virus.“The rise in active cases can be attributed to the migrants who are returning home in large numbers as well as the aggressive sampling being done to identify positive cases,” he said.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19He said the increase in cases is not a matter of concern as most cases are mildly infective and will get cured by themselves and do not need hospitalisation.Nine districts with the highest migrant influx have reported the highest number of new cases. They are Barmer, Bhilwara, Churu, Dungarpur, Jalore, Pali, Rajsamand, Sikar and Sirohi.In the beginning of May, several of these districts were on the verge of becoming corona-free with a majority of patients having recovered. But since then, they have been deluged with migrants.Dungarpur has been among the hardest hit by the migrant influx. Health department data shows that the district had only two active cases on May 5. But as of May 21, it increased to 258 cases with 256 migrants testing positive.Similarly, Pali had 20 active cases on May 5 which has risen to 168 with 106 migrants testing positive. Jalore had no active cases on May 5 but now, the district has 124 cases after 120 migrants were detected with the Sars-Cov-2 virus.Sirohi, too, had no active cases on May 5 but has 72 today with 69 migrants found to be infected.Cases in Rajsamand increased from five to 42 in the same period largely due to the migrants.44 migrants have tested positive in Barmer, taking its tally to 51 from two active cases on May 5.Churu had no active cases as all 37 patients had recovered. It now has 37 active cases after 35 migrants tested positive.Bhilwara’s cases have risen from two to 39 with 45 migrants testing positive and Sikar, which had three active cases on May 5, now has 55 cases with 55 migrants testing positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrants-drive-the-covid-19-spiral-in-rajasthan-with-1-100-cases-in-14-days/story-biBcjbSH8vkxwrfAdXf6AJ.html
21-05-2020||India||With 571 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, Delhi sees biggest single-day spike; tally at 11,659||Delhi has witnessed highest single-day spike in coronavirus cases with 571 new Covid-19 infections reported in the last 24 hours, Delhi health department said on Thursday. With this, the Covid-19 tally in the national capital jumps to 11,659. The number of coronavirus fatalities in Delhi has gone up to 194. This is the second single-day spike in Covid-19 cases reported in the national capital. On Wednesday, the health department said that 534 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in 24 hours - the highest single-day spike - while the figure was 500 for new infections on Tuesday.More than 5,500 people, 5,567 to be precise, have recovered from coronavirus in Delhi or have been discharged from hospitals. Also read: With 3 more deaths, Covid-19 fatalities rise to 150 in RajasthanOn Wednesday, the South Delhi district administration added two more areas in the list of Covid-19 containment zones. South Delhi’s Zamrudpur and Dakshinpuri were the new addition to the list. This came after the health department directed all district magistrates to create such zones as per the existing guidelines.The health department’s direction came after a mismatch between the number of coronavirus cases in the national capital and the number of containment zones was observed, news agency PTI reported. While the Covid-19 cases in Delhi breached the 11,000-mark this week, the number of containment zones have seen a downward trend.Also read: Delhi hospital issues notice to quarantined staff for vacating hotel, dharamshala roomsOn May 15, in his address on coronavirus lockdown 4.0 in the national capital, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that as economic activities and public transport resume in other parts of the city, no relaxation in containment zones will be given. “It may lead to an increase in Covid-19 cases,” he said, urging people to show discipline during the fourth phase of the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-571-new-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-delhi-sees-biggest-single-day-spike-tally-at-11-659/story-1nZMYJtSdcpsTkvGGJeryK.html
21-05-2020||India||Domestic travel: Flight schedule would be made available for each airline after DGCA draws up plan||Online bookings for air tickets for domestic flights are likely to start from Thursday evening, as the government plans to resume air traffic from May 25, which was suspended since the nationwide lockdown restrictions came into effect from March 25 to contain the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreakA senior official from the Union Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) said on condition of anonymity that a flight schedule would be made available for each domestic carrier after the regulator, Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), draws up the plan of the routes that would be allowed to operate initially. The government plans to resume domestic travel in a phased manner from May 25 because of the pandemic.The ministry has fixed the maximum and minimum cap for airfares. For example, the lowest fare for a Delhi-Mumbai flight will be Rs3,500 and the highest at Rs10,000. And, 40% of seats on a flight have to be sold at the mid-point of this band, which works out to Rs6,700. This fare will be applicable till 11.59 pm on August 24.The ministry has capped the domestic air travel capacity, which will be applicable between May 25 and August 24.In the metro cities of Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai, Hyderabad and Kolkata, flights have been allowed to operate one-third of their capacity.While in the metro to non-metro cities and vice-versa, where the weekly departures are more than 100, each flight can operate one-third of its capacity. And, for all other cities, airlines are free to operate on any route on one-third of its capacity.However, these restrictions are not applicable for UDAN flights that operate under the regional connectivity scheme.“Airlines will decide on the frequency of the flights depending on the demand after the schedule is made available,” said a private airline official.The MoCA has urged senior citizens and pregnant women to avoid travelling because of the viral outbreak.The ministry guidelines stipulated that passengers would have to report to an airport two hours before their flight is set to depart, and only those passengers, who have checked-in online, would be allowed to enter the airport terminal building with only one check-in bag and one hand baggage of a specified size.No passenger staying in a containment zone or who tested Covid-19 positive or have not been permitted to fly should not travel or else that person would be penalised, it added.A passenger needs to give a self-declaration by using the Aarogya Setu mobile application to show that h/she doesn’t have any Covid-19 symptoms. Passengers with “red” status in the app won’t be permitted to travel. Passengers must compulsorily wear face masks and airline crew members have been instructed to use personal protective equipment (PPE) kit. Airlines will not be allowed to serve meals on flights, newspapers, and magazines are also barred.The ministry has asked air passengers to wear face masks throughout their journey and carry minimum baggage, as few trolleys will be available. Passengers have been asked to complete the check-in and baggage drop process at least an hour prior to their flight departs.A passenger, who doesn’t have Aarogya Setu application on his mobile phone, will be guided to a dedicated counter at the airport to download the app. Then, the passenger has to go to the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) counter at the security checkpoint.The SOP for an air passenger states that after entering the terminal, the flier will have to download the baggage tag/baggage identification number, print it, and affix it on the bag at a prominent place. “In case the passenger is not able to print the baggage tag, then he/she should mention the PNR number and his/her name on a thick piece of paper and affix it/tag it with a strong string,” the SOP added.All biohazards will have to be disposed of in yellow bins at airports and social distancing norms must be strictly followed in the food and beverage (F&B) and retail sections. Hand sanitisers will be made available at all prominent places at airports.Passengers will have to wait in the baggage hold area until their baggage arrives in batches. Transit passengers will be allowed only in the transit hold area. The ministry has directed airlines to inform the passengers that only web check-in is allowed. All passengers’ body temperatures will be measured at airports during entry and before boarding a flight. Crew members also need to undergo frequent and random health check-ups. An aircraft has to be vigorously disinfected after every flight, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-travel-flight-schedule-would-be-made-available-for-each-airline-after-dgca-draws-up-plan/story-AetR7Ulbw4B62u1x78BPEI.html
21-05-2020||India||NDRF moves more teams to cyclone-hit Bengal for restoration work||The National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC) which reviewed the situation in the cyclone affected areas of Odisha and West Bengal on Thursday decided to send additional teams of the NDRF to the latter to speed up restoration work, especially in Kolkata, according to an official statement.In the meeting chaired by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba, Chief Secretaries of Odisha and West Bengal informed the NCMC that timely and accurate forecast by the IMD and advance deployment of NDRF facilitated the evacuation of about 5 lakh people in West Bengal and about 2 lakh in Odisha, an official statement said.This has resulted in minimal loss of human lives, considering the fact that the intensity of the Amphan was next only to that of the Super Cyclone that struck Odisha in 1999 causing large scale devastation.“NDRF is moving additional teams in West Bengal to speed up restoration work, especially in Kolkata. FCI will also ensure adequate availability of food grains, especially rice, to West Bengal so that marooned people are provided immediate sustenance,” the statement said.The Power Ministry and Department of Telecommunications will also assist in early restoration of services in both the States. The Railways, which suffered major damages to its infrastructure, is in the process of restarting its operations at the earliest.West Bengal informed that there were major damages to agriculture, power and telecommunication facilities in Cyclone affected areas. Odisha informed that damages have been mainly limited to agriculture.“Reviewing the rescue and restoration efforts, the Cabinet Secretary directed that officers of central ministries/ agencies should remain in close touch with Odisha and West Bengal state governments and provide all required assistance expeditiously. The ministry of home affairs will be sending teams to carry out early assessment of damages and submit a report,” it said..Chief Secretaries of West Bengal and Odisha participated in the NCMC meeting through video conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ndrf-moves-more-teams-to-cyclone-hit-bengal-for-restoration-work/story-ZvO9Kz12N4lHd9SLpdd8AP.html
21-05-2020||India||Covid 19 latest: India’s recovery rate crosses 40% mark for the first time||The recovery rate of patients suffering from the coronavirus disease in India has gone past 40% for the first time as per the data released by the health ministry on Thursday.The recovery rate was recorded at 38.73% on Tuesday and Thursday’s recovery rate of 40.32%, indicates a rise of 1.59% over the last 48 hours.India registered 5,609 cases between Tuesday and Wednesday to register a total of 1,12,359 cases of Covid-19 infections till date, of these 63,624 are active cases—infected currently—while 45,299 infected patients have been cured. 3,435 people have succumbed to the disease so far.Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Delhi and Rajasthan remain the four worst affected states with Maharshtra’s tally of positive cases within touching distance of the 40,000 mark. The western state alone accounts for almost the combined tally of positive cases from the other top four states.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe government has been pointing out that India, despite featuring among the 15 worst affected countries, has a good recovery rate and a low death rate when compared to others in the group.On Tuesday, a senior health ministry official had said that the country’s recovery rate at 38.73% was achieved due to timely detection aided by effective surveillance of cases.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The government had also offered data analysis to point out that the contagion’s growth rate was slowed down considerably in India due to timely restrictions such as lockdown.On Tuesday, it added that India had seen 0.2 deaths/lakh population compared to approximately 4.1 deaths/lakh population for the rest of the world.India has also ramped up its testing capacity with gradual increase in the number of labs to be able to test over 100,00 samples a day now. According to the latest figures, a total of 2,615,920 samples have been tested in the country, including 1,03,532 samples, tested in the last 24 hours.There are 3,027 dedicated Covid Hospitals and Health Centres across the country along with 6,50,930 Covid Care Centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-latest-india-s-recovery-rate-crosses-40-mark-for-the-first-time/story-1NG16PjOYdJT5TVinJTLMO.html
21-05-2020||India||1 cop killed, another injured after terrorists attack patrol party in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama||One policeman was killed and another injured in an attack on the security forces in South Kashmir’s Pulwama. The attack took place at Pulwama’s Prichoo area on Thursday.One soldier of the Central Reserve Police force (CRPF) was also injured in the attack on the patrol party.This is the second attack on the security forces in the Kashmir valley in two days.Two soldiers of the Border Security Force (BSF) were killed on Wednesday evening in Srinagar. Motorcycle-borne militants fired upon the BSF jawans at a picket in Pandach area, on the outskirts of the city, the officials said.“After a group of terrorists attacked a BSF party at Srinagar’s Pandach, two troopers got injured. Later they succumbed to their injuries,” according to an official report released on Wednesday.The officials said that both jawans - aged 35 and 36 - had sustained head injuries.The attackers had also snatched weapons from the BSF jawans.Meanwhile, three newly-recruited terrorists were arrested by security forces from Sogam area of Jammu and Kashmir’s Kupwara district, the police said.Further details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-cop-killed-another-injured-after-terrorists-attack-patrol-party-in-jammu-and-kashmir-pulwama/story-d14RipYE7UBAuRdFZ1I4ZP.html
21-05-2020||India||Lockdown and our latent sides: actor brings out the poet in him||Actor Yash Sinha is making the most of his time in quarantine by reviving the long-lost poet in him.  The ‘Badrinath ki Dulhania’ actor has been on a writing spree since the lockdown was announced. “I love writing poetry, as it liberates me from all negativity and pessimism. We are living in unprecedented times and none of us ever thought that life would stop like this. Whatever I see happening around, takes the shape of poetry and I put it down on paper.”Yash released his first poetry video, ‘Kaise Baat Karein Ye Kahin Sikhaya Jaaye’, recently on social media, “This is a small effort towards giving back to life and all the people who have somewhere or the other influenced and motivated me. I am thrilled with the response my video is garnering. Also, my narration is being praised and that’s so rewarding. But the biggest compliment came from my mother who complimented me on my effort and urged me to continue writing. It was truly overwhelming for me.Though this video is not Yash’s first work as a poet, he said, “I always wanted to write but never got down to it. This lockdown gave me the perfect opportunity to be myself. I penned two poems, one dedicated to my wife on Mother’s Day and the other just happened when a friend sent me a video of the prime minister’s call to light diyas, candles for 9 minutes at 9 pm. The entire city lit, as if it were Diwali. So, you could say it was all by chance that I continued getting inspiration to pen something or the other.”Talking about the work front, he said, “I have done multiple shows and films but I am a very greedy actor and can never feel content with whatever I have done in terms of acting or essaying various characters. So, as things get normal and we go back to work, I will also try to explore other mediums, especially OTT as that’s something that will be an altogether fun experience.”The ‘Code Red’ actor is happily home quarantined with his wife, actor Amrapali and their son, “Yes, I am relaxed as we are together in times of crisis and thankfully, when the lockdown was announced, we were home, so this actually proved to be a big relief for all of us.”Lucknow happens to be Yash’s in-laws house. “Yes, my wife is from the City of Nawabs and so the place holds a very important place in my life. Also, I would love to mention its food and its wonderful winter. I hope to visit the place soon when things get normal,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lockdown-and-our-latent-sides-actor-brings-out-the-poet-in-him/story-NC5JwaKLpXdlZUXbfO6SeP.html
21-05-2020||India||Wear mask, gloves while making arrest: Rajasthan govt Covid-19 SOP for cops||Rajasthan on Wednesday issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) for policing amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, including mandatory wearing of face masks and hand gloves for police personnel, and also following a set of preventive measures while arresting criminals.The state home department has drafted the SOP in compliance with a Rajasthan high court order, issued last Sunday, seeking a procedure for arrests amid the viral outbreak.The court order was issued on the basis of a public interest litigation (PIL) that cited news reports about 55 inmates of Jaipur district jail, including both convicts and under trials, who tested Covid-19 positive.In Rajasthan, 32 police personnel have tested Covid-19 positive to date. Altogether, 166 prisoners, and six prison staff, including the superintendent of Jaipur district jail, have contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease, and their condition is stated to be stable. Around 130 inmates are undergoing treatment at a makeshift isolation ward in the jail and the rest have been admitted to Jaipur’s Sawai Man Singh Hospital.The SOP has directed the police to ensure the arrested accused are presented before magistrates in person or via videoconference facility at the earliest before taking them to custody. The accused have to be either lodged in jail or quarantined at isolation wards of district hospitals prior to conducting Covid-19 tests, it added.The state police authorities have been directed to ensure the accused security at isolation wards until their test reports are made available.If an accused is found to have tested Covid-19 positive, then action would be taken as per the prescribed norms. If an accused is found to be Covid-19 negative, then he needs to be admitted to an isolation ward for 21 days. He has to undergo another test after 21 days and then be put under home quarantine for 14 more days, if he is granted bail. In case his bail is denied, he needs to be lodged at a general jail ward.The SOP said the judicial custody of an accused could be only sought under exceptional circumstances.The guidelines also directed jail staff to take precautions while dealing with the accused in a bid to contain the spread of the viral outbreak.The order also suggested conducting random Covid-19 tests for jail staff and their family members and a regular check-up of prisoners, maintaining their health records along with a daily sanitisation drive on prison premises.Social distancing norms need to be strictly maintained along with the use of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits.The overall tally in the desert state stood at 5,952 cases and 143 Covid-19 related deaths until 2pm on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wear-mask-gloves-while-making-arrest-rajasthan-govt-covid-19-sop-for-cops/story-km01C0HdOYiAia6oW14YAK.html
21-05-2020||India||With 42 new cases, Jharkhand’s Covid-19 tally climbs to 290||A total of 42 more Covid-19 cases have been reported from Jharkhand in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the state to 290, according to the state health department on Thursday.According to a health bulletin, there are 158 active Covid-19 cases in the state.So far, 129 people have recovered and been discharged after being treated for coronavirus. Meanwhile, two persons have lost their lives due to the virus in the state. One person also died after being negative (due to comorbid or other reasons) but before discharge.A total number of 39,790 samples have been tested for coronavirus in Jharkhand, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-s-covid-19-tally-climbs-to-290-42-more-cases-reported/story-Sdc61FPYfIDJ9xNZlSX2xO.html
21-05-2020||India||Country stands in solidarity with cyclone-hit Bengal: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday assured West Bengal that the country stands in solidarity with it as the state counts its losses in the wake of cyclone Amphan.“Have been seeing visuals from West Bengal on the devastation caused by Cyclone Amphan. In this challenging hour, the entire nation stands in solidarity with West Bengal. Praying for the well-being of the people of the state. Efforts are on to ensure normalcy, Prime Minister Modi said in a tweet.The cyclone which barrelled through the Odisha coast on Wednesday before hitting West Bengal has killed at least 12 people in Bengal and three in Odisha.The storm began its landfall at 2:30 pm on Wednesday with sustained wind speeds of 155-165 kmph spiralling up to 185 kmph has caused widespread damage to property, plantations and standing crops.The cyclone weakened as it moved towards Bangladesh.Also read: Amit Shah speaks to Odisha, Bengal CMs on cyclone Amphan; assures help“My thoughts are with the people of Odisha as the state bravely battles the effects of Cyclone Amphan. Authorities are working on the ground to ensure all possible assistance to the those affected. I pray that the situation normalises at the earliest,” Modi sain in another tweet.On Wednesday, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said that the damage was difficult to assess immediately because entire islands had been cut off from the mainland and many areas were left without electricity or phone connectivity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/country-stands-in-solidarity-with-cyclone-hit-bengal-pm-narendra-modi/story-PCWHojueoffdLgiyVxseWI.html
21-05-2020||India||Swiggy begins home delivery of alcohol, starts from Ranchi||Food ordering and delivery platform Swiggy on Thursday said it has started home delivery of alcohol in Ranchi and is in talks with various state governments to provide support with online processing and home delivery of alcohol in their states. The service has gone live in Ranchi and will be launched in other major cities in Jharkhand within a week, Swiggy said in a statement. The company is also in advanced stage of discussions with multiple state governments to provide support with online processing and home delivery of alcohol, it added. To ensure safe delivery of alcohol in compliance with applicable laws, Swiggy has introduced measures such as mandatory age verification and user authentication to complete deliveries, the statement said. “By enabling home delivery of alcohol in a safe and responsible manner, we can generate additional business for retail outlets while solving the problem of overcrowding, thereby promoting social distancing,” Swiggy Vice-President (Products) Anuj Rathi said. Taking advantage of the company’s existing technology and infrastructure to enable hyperlocal deliveries, it has been working closely with the local authorities to support them with initiatives like expansion of grocery delivery and COVID-19 relief efforts, he added. Swiggy is partnering with authorised retailers after validating their licence and other required documents as outlined by respective state governments, the statement said. The online processing and home delivery of alcohol is through the ‘Wine Shops’ category on the the company’s app, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swiggy-begins-home-delivery-of-alcohol-starts-from-ranchi/story-KRYm9y1oFEw8AiUNw0nFpK.html
21-05-2020||India||Assam NGO files FIR with CBI against former state NRC coordinator over alleged financial irregularities||A Guwahati-based NGO has registered a first information report (FIR) with the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) alleging financial irregularities in the updating process of the National Register of Citizens (NRC) for Assam, which was released last year.The FIR was filed in the Anti-Corruption Branch of CBI here on Monday by the Assam Public Works (APW), the original petitioner on whose PIL the Supreme Court in 2015 had ordered for updating of the NRC, which was first compiled for Assam in 1951.The APW alleges that Wipro, one of the prime software companies, involved in the NRC updating process, had allegedly submitted a bill of Rs 1.27 crore for procurement of two software systems. The amount was paid to them between February and August 2017, it added.Also read: Govt asks Assam to probe PM-KISAN fraud charges“However, as per the ground report of the National Institute of Smart Governance (NISG), submitted to the Office of the Accountant General (Audit) in Assam, no such system was installed and used for the updation of NRC in Assam,” the FIR read.The APW alleges that the said bill for the amount of Rs 1.27 crore was cleared by Prateek Hajela, former state coordinator of NRC. The IAS officer was transferred to Madhya Pradesh last year on the directions of the Supreme Court.The FIR further alleges that a report by the Accountant General (Audit) also reveals irregularities in purchase of 3,700 generators for 2,500 NRC help centres set up across Assam.Also read: With return of stranded people, Covid-19 cases in NE double from 200 to 400 in 11 daysIt maintains that Wipro had submitted bills worth Rs 34.76 crore for purchase of these generators at the rate of Rs 93,964 for each set, but an inquiry by the accountant general’s office revealed that the generators were hired (not purchased). It was also revealed that the market price of these generators was Rs 35,000 each and not Rs 93,964.HT reached out to the corporate communications department of Wipro in Bangalore and this is what they said in an email:“Wipro does not comment on pending litigation.”The final NRC list for Assam was released in August last year in which 1.9 million of the 33 million people, who applied for inclusion in the list to determine citizenship, were excluded.Those left out of the list were to file an appeal at foreigners’ tribunals within 120 days. But the process is yet to start.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-ngo-files-fir-with-cbi-against-wipro-former-state-nrc-coordinator-over-alleged-financial-irregularities/story-D2NCZ4QJODvN1lB2H6XySM.html
21-05-2020||India||‘More trains soon, bookings at railway counters in 2-3 days’: Piyush Goyal||There will be resumption of more trains soon, announced railway minister Piyush Goyal, stressing that it is time to take the country towards normalcy after weeks of lockdown due to coronavirus. “Will announce resumption of more trains. It is time to take India towards normalcy,” Piyush Goyal was quoted as saying by the Press Trust of India. In a related development, he said bookings can soon be done at the ticket counters of railway stations. “Bookings also to resume at ticket counters of stations in next two-three days. We are conducting studies, developing protocol,” said the minister. The railway minister praised Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani for their cooperation with the railways in running the Shramik Special trains and criticised West Bengal and Jharkhand for their non-cooperation. Till Wednesday, the minister added, 279 Shramik trains were run taking five lakh migrant labourers, students and stranded tourists to their homes.Goyal said only 27 trains have been able to reach West Bengal, while till May 8 or 9, only 2 trains could reach there.On Tuesday, the railways announced that it would run 200 new trains from June 1. These trains would be in addition to the Shramik Special trains, whose numbers too would be increased.This is the second slew of special passenger services that marked the Railways’ graded restoration of its trains which were suspended due to the coronavirus pandemic.Also read: Meet the youngsters who adopted families of widows in this pandemic||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-trains-soon-bookings-at-railway-counters-in-2-3-days-piyush-goyal/story-SBs02V3NX8zOATRQQbssyL.html
21-05-2020||India||Karnataka reports 116 more Covid-19 cases, state tally over 1,500||A total of 116 more Covid-19 cases have been reported from Karnataka, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the state to 1,568.“116 new COVID-19 positive cases reported in Karnataka (from 5 PM yesterday to 12 PM today), 14 people discharged during this period. Total positive cases in the state rises to 1568,” said the Government of Karnataka.Total deaths in the state stand at 41. Besides, 570 people have been discharged so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-reports-116-more-covid-19-cases-state-tally-over-1-500/story-mBXtrroTyPTyQxaX8cK2NI.html
21-05-2020||India||Amit Shah speaks to Odisha, Bengal CMs on cyclone Amphan; assures help||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday spoke to chief ministers of Odisha and West Bengal -- Naveen Patnaik and Mamata Banerjee respectively -- and assured them of all central help to deal with the situation arising due to cyclone Amphan. Shah also said he was constantly monitoring the situation in the two cyclone-hit states. “I have also spoken to CM Odisha, Shri Naveen Patnaik ji & CM West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee ji over situation arising due to the cyclone and assured all possible help from centre,” he tweeted. The home minister said the teams of the National Disaster Response Force are already on the ground to help the people affected by the cyclone. “We are closely monitoring the cyclone Amphan and are in continuous touch with concerned authorities,” he said. Shah said the Narendra Modi government is committed for the safety and security of every citizen. “I urge people of West Bengal and Odisha to stay indoor and follow instructions. Praying for everyone’s safety and well being,” he said. The cyclone has left at least 12 people dead and damaged infrastructure in West Bengal. The rains and high-velocity winds too caused massive damage to standing crops, plantations and infrastructure in Odisha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-speaks-to-odisha-bengal-cms-on-cyclone-amphan-assures-help/story-Kf3QU8YZlaR13Z228fhRNK.html
21-05-2020||India||Manipur reports 16 new Covid-19 cases, state tally reaches 25||With 16 new cases tested and found positive for Covid-19, Manipur reported a total of 23 active positive cases of coronavirus on Wednesday, according to an official press note.“Today 16 new cases are tested positive and out of this 15 are from Churachandpur centres and one from Imphal East centre,” said a press note from state Chief Secretary’s office in Imphal on Wednesday night.“So far about 2,544 samples are tested and 25 cases have been detected positive.”Of 16 patients, 10 are female. Last month, the first two positive patients of coronavirus in the state recovered from the disease and were subsequently discharged from the hospitals.Given the rapid rise in the number of coronavirus cases, the state cabinet in its emergency meeting on Wednesday reviewed the status of incoming stranded people.Also read: Second-biggest single-day spike takes Covid-19 cases in India to over 1.1 lakhThe government said that it is following strict procedure and more than the prescribed norms to ensure the safety of the people. “So far, all the cases are confined to the quarantine centres and there is no case detected from the general public in the society,” it said.Six trains have arrived at Jiribam railway station, 220 kilometres west of Imphal, from Chennai, Punjab, Bangalore, Vadodara, Hyderabad and Vijayawada.The sixth special train, carrying around 485 migrant labourers of the state, arrived at Jiribam on Wednesday morning. Soon after their arrival, the returnees were transported to their respective districts using the state transport buses following necessary medical procedures.The press note informed that the health department has intensified the sample collection in 17 centres and testing capacity has been increased from the earlier level of 200 samples a day to 900. It will be further increased to 1,500 per day, the statement said. After deliberation, the cabinet has decided to bring stranded people in phases. In the first phase, the trains arranged till May 25 will be allowed, it said. After the completion of testing of all people stationed in quarantine centres, the second phase of trains will be planned.The state cabinet has also decided to segregate these incoming people from the existing inmates in quarantine centres and not to mix up them to control the spread of Covid-19.Dr Khoirom Sasheekumar, additional director and spokesperson of the state health department, confirmed the report of detecting 16 new positive cases of Covid-19 through two separate press releases issued at 6.30 pm and 8.30 pm respectively on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-reports-16-new-covid-19-cases-state-tally-reaches-25/story-fC2rL4KIfr4ATnr8xIcG2J.html
21-05-2020||India||In new flight rules, airfare fixed by govt, only one check-in bag allowed||About a third of operations will be allowed when domestic flights resume next week and the upper and lower limit of airfares will be prescribed by the government, according to the civil aviation ministry’s standard operating procedures for the airlines.“Airlines should adhere to the upper and lower limit of fares prescribed by the ministry during the Covid-19 pandemic,” the ministry said.India will resume domestic flights beginning May 25, the government said on Wednesday, announcing a gradual reboot of air travel that was halted two months ago on the account of the lockdown imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Also Watch | 1/3rd flights to operate, fare caps for 3 months: Govt lays down guidelines Elderly, pregnant women, and people with health issues are advised to avoid travel. Passengers staying in the containment zone will not be allowed to travel. Also, they should not travel if they have been tested positive for Covid-l9, say the guidelines.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“A self-declaration/ Aarogya Setu App status would also be obtained stating that the passenger is free of Covid-19 symptoms. Passengers with “red” status on the Aarogya Setu app would not be permitted to travel,” it said.However, Aarogya Setu is not mandatory for children below 14 years of age. State governments and local administrations will have to ensure the availability of public transport and private cabs for providing connectivity to the airport for passengers.“In case of non-availability of Aarogya Setu app, the passenger should be facilitated to go to a counter provided by the airport where Aarogya setu can be downloaded,” it said.Passengers may also have to quarantine upon reaching their destination depending on the norms decided by the states.Also read: Can’t eat inside plane, avoid lavatory- India sets ground rules to fly again“On arrival at the destination airport, passengers will have to adhere to such health protocols as prescribed by the destination states/UTs,” the guidelines added.Those travelling will be required to wear the face mask and have been asked to reach the airport at least two hours before the departure. Only one check-in bag will be allowed and airlines will not provide meal services on board.Passengers have been advised to familiarise themselves about the new procedures at the airport, especially about the norms of social distancing, minimum touch, baggage limitations, Covid-I9 declaration, registering on Aarogya Setu app, digital payments use of authorised taxis. The guidelines advised people against reaching the airport at the last minute. International flights have not arrived in India since March 22. Cargo flights and those evacuating foreign nationals have been operating though.Also read: AAI announces SOPs for flights: What is allowed at airports, what isn’tResuming domestic flight services is seen as yet another step by the government in the direction of a graded exit from the lockdown which has been extended till the end of this month. The curbs have taken a toll on the Indian economy, stalling activities across sectors, including the aviation industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-new-flight-rules-airfare-fixed-by-govt-only-one-check-in-bag-allowed/story-YAeaMNIXRkhEgqeUdBxggP.html
21-05-2020||India||Three newly recruited terrorists arrested from J-K’s Kupwara||Three newly recruited terrorists have been arrested by joint forces from Sogam area of Jammu and Kashmir’s Kupwara district, the police said.Further investigation is underway.This comes after Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist Junaid Ashraf Khan, son of Tehreek-e-Hurriyat chairman Mohammed Ashraf Khan, was killed in an encounter with security forces at Nawakadal area of Srinagar on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-newly-recruited-terrorists-arrested-from-j-k-s-kupwara/story-TYQ59jCOwAUNAmSAOH9KXN.html
21-05-2020||India||Woman claims her Covid-19 positive husband is missing, hospital says man cremated||A woman in Hyderabad, who was discharged along with her two daughters from Gandhi Hospital on May 16 after undergoing treatment for Covid-19, claimed that her 42-year old husband, also a Covid-19 patient, was missing.The hospital authorities, however, declared that the man died on May 1 and was cremated the following day by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) authorities after duly informing his family members.The woman, Alampally Madhavi from Vanasthalipuram colony, posting on Twitter that her husband A Madhusudhan (42), a rice mill worker, had not come home along with them when they were discharged on May 16. She tagged Telangana Information Technology minister KT Rama Rao in her tweet.Madhavi complained to the minister that her husband was admitted to King Kothi Hospital on April 27 and later taken to Gandhi Hospital on April 30.Madhavi futher claimed that the hospital authorities had not taken her permission to complete the process and hadn’t even shown the body identification. They had not shown any evidences like cremation video, photos or his belongings to her.“On May 16, when we were discharged, we questioned the hospital authorities about my husband, but they did not give proper reply. They first said he was still on ventilator but later said he was not alive. We request you to help in probing my husband’s missing case,” she said.Gandhi Hospital superintendent Dr M Raja Rao issued a statement stating that the woman’s husband, who was also suffering from bilateral pneumonia with acute respiratory distress syndrome, had succumbed to Covid-19 on May 1 evening, a day after he was admitted to the hospital.“As per the procedure, the family members were informed and following the protocol, the dead body was handed over to police and their acknowledgement was taken. On enquiry, it was known that the body was cremated by the GHMC. All due procedures were followed,” he said.While sympathising with Madhavi’s family, Rao said it was wrong to defame the hospital and doctors and other staff who were treating hundreds of Covid-19 patients risking their lives.Madhavi told reporters that she strongly believes her husband was alive. She disputes the claim of Gandhi Hospital superintendent that the family was informed about the tragedy.“Let them show evidence to whom they had informed and from whom they had obtained consent or no objection letter,” she asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-claims-her-covid-19-positive-husband-is-missing-hospital-says-man-cremated/story-IuZ18u1ytva4bE8Zn84oRM.html
21-05-2020||India||‘True patriot, liberal’: Rahul Gandhi pays homage to father on his death anniversary||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi paid homage to his father and former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi on his 29th death anniversary on Thursday saying, “he is proud to be the son of a true patriot”.“I am proud to be the son of a true patriot, liberal and a benevolent father. As Prime Minister, Rajiv ji had pushed India on the path of progress. He took many important steps to empower the country with his forward-looking vision. Today, on his death anniversary, I salute him with affection and gratitude,” he tweeted (translated from Hindi).Rajiv Gandhi took over the charge of the Congress in 1984 following the assassination of his mother and then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. He became India’s youngest Prime Minister at the age of 40.Born on August 20 in 1944, Rajiv Gandhi was assassinated by a Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) suicide bomber during an election rally in Sriperumbudur in Tamil Nadu on May 21, 1991.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-pays-homage-to-father-rajiv-remembers-him-as-true-patriot-liberal/story-EwrIvH39g2JsqYJHQHDi6J.html
21-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: What India and the world are doing for Covid-19 vaccine and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Antibody testing, vaccine trial: What India and the world are doing for Covid-19 vaccineThere are currently no approved treatments or vaccines for Covid-19, the disease caused by the new coronavirus, with governments, drugmakers and researchers working on around 100 vaccine programmes. Read more. No tatkal, premium tatkal booking for 200 trains that begin service from June 1: Ministry of RailwaysThe Ministry of Railways, in its guidelines, has said that tatkal and premium tatkal booking options will not be available for 200 trains that begin operations from June 1. The process of reservation of tickets for these trains was scheduled to begin at 10 am today but was delayed. Read more. NDMA advises people not to move out until govt’s green signalAmid cyclone Amphan, the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) on Thursday advised people against going out until government’s green signal. Read more. Strides Pharma to conduct trials in India for potential Covid-19 drugIndian pharmaceutical company Strides Pharma Science Ltd said on Thursday it has got regulatory approval to conduct clinical trials of antiviral drug favipiravir, considered a potential treatment for Covid-19. Read more. Gautam Gambhir picks Sachin Tendulkar over Virat Kohli in ODIs, reveals reasonsFormer India cricketer Gautam Gambhir made his pick between India legend Sachin Tendulkar and current India captain Virat Kohli, and said that he would pick the former in the ODIs. Tendulkar retired from all forms of cricket in 2013, with numerous records etched to his name. Read more. Apple whistleblower goes public, says company must face consequencesA former Apple contractor who revealed that the company was using users’ private conversations to improve its virtual assistant, Siri, has gone public over lack of action. Read more. I’m a sucker for all things retro: Why Vijay Varma loves nineties fashionMost recently seen in the crime thriller SHE, horror short Ghost Stories and Gully Boy fame actor Vijay Varma says he is a sucker for nineties fashion. Read more. Covid-19: India, Brazil, Russia new hotspots, Is our social distancing enough?Hindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of covid-19 cases in India, how lockdown rules are confusingly different, Cambridge lectures to go online next academic year and more.Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-what-india-and-the-world-are-doing-for-covid-19-vaccine-and-all-the-latest-news/story-9p08Vh0U5pWK6tbr3NRRrJ.html
21-05-2020||India||From origin to airport and inside aircraft: Dos and Dont’s of air travel announced by government||The Ministry of Civil Aviation on Thursday announced a list of guidelines for air passengers as domestic flights in the country ready to resume services from May 25.The ministry has specified that only one check-in bag and one cabin bag will be allowed per traveller. It has released detailed guidelines for travellers on steps that need to be taken to ensure safety from coronavirus amid the crisis. From the point of origin till the airport, the passengers are advised to maintain social distancing and avoid touching surroundings as much as possible. Registering on the the Aarogya Setu app is also a must.Here’s what the travellers need to keep in mind:While travelling to the airport• Registration on Aarogya Setu app and self-declaration is mandatory.• Passengers are advised to use digital mode of payment and used authorised taxis.• Only one check-in bag and one cabin bag is allowed. • Elderly people, pregnant women and vulnerable people are advised to avoid travelling. • Ensure web check-in and obtain a boarding pass.• Passengers must download the baggage tag/baggage identification number, print it and affix and affix it on the bag at a prominent place. • PNR number and the name of the passenger must be displayed prominently on the bag in case baggage tag is not printable. • Wearing a mask is mandatory. Passengers must arrive at least a couple of hours before the scheduled departure of flight. • Status of health to be updated on the Aarogya Setu app. The ministry has also urged passengers not to reach late. Those living in Covid-19 containment zones or the ones who have tested positive for coronavirus should avoid travelling. The airlines will issue a boarding pass only after the passengers have declared that they don’t live in a Covid-19 containment zone, are not showing any symptoms, among others as part of the self-declaration. Passenger’s health update on Aarogya Setu app must be shown to the staff at the entry gate. Inside the aircraft• Passengers must strictly follow hygiene and sanitation inside the aircraft. Face to face interaction to be minimised.• Non-essential movement in the aisle to be avoided. Passengers to minimize use of toilets. No queuing, only one companion with children and elderly people will be allowed. • No meal service in the aircraft. Water bottles will be made available. Eatables not to be consumed inside the flight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-origin-to-airport-and-inside-aircraft-dos-and-dont-s-of-air-travel-announced-by-government/story-N5EGnltbV4NNbF8idsF4aK.html
21-05-2020||India||Antibody testing, vaccine trial: What India and the world are doing for Covid-19 vaccine||As the coronavirus pandemic spreads across the world rapidly, the race to find a vaccine has also been fast-tracked.There are currently no approved treatments or vaccines for Covid-19, the disease caused by the new coronavirus, with governments, drugmakers and researchers working on around 100 vaccine programmes. Experts predict a safe and effective vaccine could take 12 to 18 months to develop.Many companies, in India as well as across the world, have made headway in vaccine development. One such company, Bengaluru-based Strides Pharma Science Ltd said on Thursday that it has got regulatory approval to conduct clinical trials of antiviral drug favipiravir, considered a potential treatment for Covid-19.Strides’ announcement comes after Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Ltd said last month it became the first pharmaceutical company in the country to get the nod to conduct favipiravir trials. The Mumbai-based company has initiated late-stage clinical trials and expects study results by July or August.Favipiravir is manufactured under the brand name Avigan by a unit of Japan’s Fujifilm Holdings Corp and was approved for use as an anti-flu drug in the country in 2014.Translate Bio Inc, a 100-person company based outside Boston, has joined forces with Sanofi to develop a vaccine for Covid-19. However, on Wednesday, Japan’s Kyodo News reported that so far there has been no clear evidence of efficacy for Avigan in treating Covid-19 in some clinical trials.US President Donald Trump had disclosed on Tuesday that he was taking hydroxychloroquine despite medical warnings about potential serious side effects and questions about its effectiveness in preventing the coronavirus.Hydroxychloroquine sulfate was first synthesised in 1946 and is in a class of medications historically used to treat and prevent malaria. It is approved by the US Food and Drug Administration to treat malaria, rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, childhood arthritis, and other autoimmune diseases. The drug is not FDA-approved for the treatment of Covid-19 but it has been identified as a possible treatment for the infection and the US government has requested its immediate availability.For treatment, patients have been getting antibody-rich plasma donated by people who recovered from Covid-19, and drugmakers are at work producing refined and concentrated versions of that serum.Menwhile, the doctors in China are seeing the virus manifest differently in its new cluster of cases, suggesting that the pathogen may be changing and complicating efforts to stamp it out.However, a leading researcher on cancer, HIV/AIDS and human genome projects said that governments should not count on a successful vaccine against Covid-19 being developed anytime soon.William Haseltine cautioned that vaccines developed for other types of coronavirus had failed to protect mucous membranes in the nose where the virus typically enters the body.Tests on animals of experimental Covid-19 vaccines had been able to reduce the viral load in organs like lungs although the infections remained, he said.However, Haseltine said the virus can still be controlled by careful tracing of infections and strict isolation measures, and urged people to wear masks, wash hands, clean surfaces and keep a distance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/antibody-testing-vaccine-trial-what-india-and-the-world-are-doing-for-covid-19-vaccine/story-qvNLypZHBWod20qpL9nNWJ.html
21-05-2020||India||Can’t eat inside plane, avoid lavatory: India sets ground rules to fly again||With domestic flights resuming next week, the ministry of civil aviation said on Thursday that only a third of operations will be allowed while releasing the SOPs for those travelling.The ministry said only one check-in bag and one cabin bag will be allowed. It also advised pregnant ladies and passengers with ailments to avoid travel.Some of the rules are:* Only those passengers with confirmed web check-in will be allowed to enter the airport * Passengers will be required to wear face mask * Only one check-in bag will be allowed* Pregnant ladies, passengers with ailments are advised to avoid travel * A self-declaration/Aarogya Setu app status would also be obtained that the passenger is free of Covid-19 symptoms* Passengers with ‘Red’ status in the Aarogya Setu app will not be allowed to travel* The cabin crew will be in full protective suit* The airlines will not provide meal services on board* No newspaper or magazines will be provided by the airlines* Use of baggage trolley to be minimised* Passengers are advised to minimise use of lavatory and to avoid any non-essential movement in the aisles* Passengers will not be allowed to consume eatables inside the aircraft during the flight* All those travelling will be thermally screened at the airport entry gate* No passengers from containment zones allowed* Chairs marked ‘not for use’ should not be taken||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-flight-sops-ony-web-check-in-one-travel-bag-allowed/story-qjpPvnYtMSeZIJxQpY4ppO.html
21-05-2020||India||Chhattisgarh: Driver, migrant labourer dead after bus collides with truck||A driver and a migrant labourer died on Thursday in Chhattisgarh’s Bemetra district during a head-on collision between a bus and a trailer-truck.The incident took place near Temri village under Nandghat police station on Raipur-Bilaspur highway.“A driver and a migrant labourer died on spot. Eight other passengers, who were travelling on the bus, have suffered injuries and admitted to a hospital in Bilaspur. The deceased are yet to be identified,” said DM Awasthi, director-general of police (DGP), Chhattisgarh.The passengers were all stranded migrant labourers, who were returning home from Maharashtra amid the easing of lockdown restrictions. They had reached Baghnadi check post in Rajnandgaon district on Chhattisgarh-Maharashtra border from where the local administration had arranged a bus to ferry them to their respective native places, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-driver-migrant-labourer-dead-after-bus-collides-with-truck/story-8chrzGXsGgwXWz4hAhwtQM.html
21-05-2020||India||President accepts credentials of 7 envoys via video, says it is a first||A new chapter in digital India opened in Rashtrapati Bhavan on Thursday when President Ram Nath Kovind became the first ever titular head of a state to receive and accept diplomatic credentials of seven foreign envoy digitally.“This was the first time that credentials were presented through the digital medium. The President remarked that digital technology has enabled the world to overcome the challenges posed by COVID-19 and carry out its functions in an innovative manner,” the Rashtrapati Bhavan tweeted. The elaborate ceremony for presentation of credentials had to be cut short as Covid-19 restrictions are firmly in place and President Kovind has minimised his physical engagements. “But it was felt necessary to conduct the credential presentation online as it is a vital part of diplomatic culture which shouldn’t be overlooked,” said a senior official of the Rashtrapati Bhavan.This was the first time that credentials were presented through the digital medium. The President remarked that digital technology has enabled the world to overcome the challenges posed by COVID-19 and carry out its functions in an innovative manner.Ambassador of DPR Korea, Senegal, Côte d’Ivoire along with the High Commissioners of Trinidad and Tobago, Mauritius Australia and Rwanda came in the South Block and stood in front of a large screen one by one. On the screen, President Kovind appeared to welcome them, even as the distance between the South Block and Rashtrapati Bhavan is not even 200 metres.Secretary (West) of the Ministry of External Affairs, Vikas Swaroop, was present along with the envoys during the ceremony.These were the first batch of envoys who presented their credentials after the Covid-19 pandemic swept India leading to a nationwide lockdown since March 25. “The envoys read out their letters of credentials and President accepted them on the TV screen. They also nodded at the President as per the protocol and some envoys even extended an invitation to the President on behalf of their head of state to visit their countries. President accepted them and at the end, he delivered a short speech welcoming them in India and also mentioned how our country is fighting against Covid-19,” said an official.The presentation of protocol involves a detailed plan with strict rules and elaborate rituals. During normal time, the envoy would come to Rashtrapati Bhavan accompanied by a foreign ministry official. He has to take a specific seat in the car and the accompanying protocol officer would be sitting next to him. Each diplomatic mission can send a specific number of people for the ceremony and when the ambassador arrives at the forecourt of Rashtrapati Bhavan, the Commander of the Presidential Guard would welcome him.There is also a guard of honour standing in the Middle Arc of the main entrance, while the police band would play the National Anthem of the country of the Ambassador. Then he would enter the ceremonial hall and sit two metres away from the President. According to the established protocol, the Ambassador does not shake hands or exchange any words with the President but only makes a slight bow to the President of the Republic.While all these arrangements could not be done due to Covid-19 restrictions, India did start a new beginning in, what some officials called, “digital diplomacy”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-ram-nath-kovind-accepts-credentials-of-7-envoys-through-video-conference/story-US6gXdmRQ6gW746dNPtGAO.html
21-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan Update: NDMA advises people not to move out until govt’s green signal||Amid cyclone Amphan, the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) on Thursday advised people against going out until government’s green signal.“Only venture out after a cyclone when “all clear” messages are declared by the Government Officials,” NDMA wrote on Twitter.Cyclone Amphan made landfall in the coastal region of Odisha and West Bengal on May 20 and has had an adverse effect on the weather of various parts of the country.NDMA said that thunderstorm accompanied by lightning and squall is likely over Bihar; with lightning and gusty winds at isolated places over Arunachal Pradesh and Assam and Meghalaya.Lightning and gusty winds at isolated places over Lakshadweep, Kerala, and Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura, and with lightning at isolated places over South Interior Karnataka, it said.The NDMA also said that squally wind speed reaching 30-40 kmph gusting to 50 kmph expected over Meghalaya and West Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-update-ndma-advises-people-not-to-move-out-unit-govt-s-green-signal/story-jQG2C4HacS6dMjNEyUFv0M.html
21-05-2020||India||No tatkal, premium tatkal booking for 200 trains that begin service from June 1: Ministry of Railways||The Ministry of Railways, in its guidelines, has said that tatkal and premium tatkal booking options will not be available for 200 trains that begin operations from June 1. The process of reservation of tickets for these trains was scheduled to begin at 10 am today but was delayed. Indian Railways will start operations of 200 passenger services from June 1. The ministry on Wednesday issued a list of 100 pairs of trains, 200 hundred trains in total, that it will begin operations from June 1. The ministry’s key train services, such as Durontos, Sampark Krantis, Jan Shatabdis and Poorva Express, are set to resume services from June 1 in the government’s bid to restore rail services across the country in a graded manner amid the coronavirus crisis.Also read: Railways to run AC trains from June 1 - Here’s a list of trains allowedAs per the Railways, the trains will help migrants as well as those who wish to travel amid the coronavirus crisis. The guidelines are for trains other than Shramik trains, which will continue to run in bigger numbers for migrant labourers.“These will be fully reserved trains having both Air Conditioned & Non AC classes. General (GS) coaches shall also have reserved seat for sitting. There will be no unreserved coach in the train,” the ministry said.Fare shall be as normal and for General (GS) coaches, being reserved, second seating (2S) fare shall be charged and seat will be provided to all the passengers.Also read: Nearly 1.5 lakh tickets booked in first 2 hrs for trains running from June 1Only online e-ticketing will be done through the IRCTC website or via IRCTC Mobile App. No tickets will be booked across the reservation counter on any railway station. Booking of tickets through ‘agents’ shall not be permitted.The ARP (advance reservation period) shall be maximum 30 days. RAC and waitlist options are available however waiting list ticket holders shall not be permitted to board the train.No unreserved (UTS) tickets will be issued and no tickets will be issued on-board to any passenger during the journey, the guidelines stated.Also read: ‘More trains soon, bookings at railway counters in 2-3 days,’ says Piyush GoyalCancellation and refund of tickets apply under the Railway Passengers (Cancellation of Ticket and Refund of Fare) Rules, 2015.Passengers are encouraged to get their own food. No catering charges shall be included in the fare. Provision for prepaid meal booking, e-catering shall be disabled. However, limited eatables and packaged drinking water on payment basis will be provided in limited trains.All passengers shall be compulsorily screened and only asymptomatic passengers are allowed to board the train. Only passengers with confirmed tickets shall be allowed. Passengers must wear face covers/masks at the entry and during travel and must reach the station at least 90 minutes prior to the departure of the train.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-tatkal-premium-tatkal-booking-for-200-trains-that-begin-service-from-june-1-ministry-of-railways/story-557liv3X4YkeFqEuqZdoYI.html
21-05-2020||India||AAI issues SOP as domestic flights set to resume||The Airports Authority of India (AAI) issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) to airport operators on Wednesday for recommencement of domestic flights from May 25 onwards, saying Aarogya Setu app is not mandatory for children below 14 years of age. “Passengers shall compulsorily walk through screening zone for thermal screening at a designated place in the city side before entering the terminal building,” the AAI said in its SOP, which has been accessed by PTI. Airport operators must make appropriate arrangements for sanitisation of a passenger’s baggage before his or her entry into the terminal building, said the SOP dated May 20. The AAI manages more than 100 airports across the country. However, major airports like Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad are managed by private companies.  Civil Aviation Minister had announced on Wednesday that domestic flight services would resume from May 25 onwards in a calibrated manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aai-issues-sop-as-domestic-flights-set-to-resume/story-005ZQgvjHEVVZ4VrFx4kmN.html
21-05-2020||India||With return of stranded people, Covid-19 cases in NE double from 200 to 400 in 11 days||The north-east’s (NE) overall tally of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases rose to 403 till Thursday morning amid growing fears of a spike due to the influx of thousands of stranded migrants, who are returning to their native places, amid the easing of lockdown restrictions.It took 11 days for the figure to double from 200 Covid-19 cases on May 9.The first Covid-19 positive case in the region was reported in Manipur on March 24. It took 24 days for Covid-19 active cases in the region to reach 50 and another 18 days to go past 100 on May 4.While Covid-19 positive cases are stagnant in some of the states, both Assam and Tripura have reported a spike, which has led to a rise in the region’s overall tally.Assam has reported 190 Covid-19 positive cases till Thursday morning. So far, four Covid-19 related deaths have been reported from the state, along with 49 recoveries, 134 still undergoing treatment in various hospitals and three migrants, who were afflicted with SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease, have returned to their native places in other states.“Assam has received 74,118 people travelling back through all means of transportation, while 17,488 persons have left the state over the last fortnight,” GP Singh, additional director general of police (ADGP) (law and order), Assam, tweeted on Tuesday.Around 110 of the total Covid-19 positive cases in Assam have been reported among people who either returned after May 4 or those who came in contact with those who have come back.Tripura has reported 173 Covid-19 positive cases to date. On Wednesday, four persons, who recently returned from Chennai, tested Covid-19 positive. But in Tripura, 160 cases have been reported from three Border Security Force (BSF) battalions posted in Dhalai district. Tripura has not recorded any Covid-19 related fatality and 116 patients have recovered so far.While in Manipur, the count has gone up to 25, as 16 people tested positive on Wednesday. So far, two persons have recovered. The new cases were reported only among migrants, who returned to Manipur recently.Meghalaya, too, reported a fresh case on Tuesday after a 33-year-old woman, who returned from Chennai a day ago, tested positive. The state has reported 14 cases, including one death and another undergoing treatment.Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh have no active cases and Nagaland is the only state that has not reported a single case of the viral outbreak so far.According to the Guwahati-headquartered Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR), 13 Shramik Special trains till Tuesday ferried 17,000 people, mainly migrant workers, students, and patients, from the rest of the country to the region.(With inputs from Priyanka Deb Barman and Sobhapati Samom)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-return-of-stranded-people-covid-19-cases-in-ne-double-from-200-to-400-in-11-days/story-S5IerLwqbYenUQWKmDm8VM.html
21-05-2020||India||AAI asks passengers to reach airport 2 hours prior to departure||State-run Airports Authority of India has advised passengers-to reach airport 2 hours prior to departure.In its standard operating procedures (SoPs), the state-run firm also asked passengers to install the Aarogya Setu mobile app without which they won’t be allowed entry into the terminal building.Even those passengers coming from non-green zones will not be allowed entry.Besides, all passengers will be required to go in for a thermal check before entering the terminal.The AAI’s SoPs comes a day after Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Wednesday said: “Domestic civil aviation operations will recommence in a calibrated manner from Monday, 25th May 2020.”“All airports & air carriers are being informed to be ready for operations from 25th May,” he said. Furthermore, the minister said the SOPs for the passenger movement would be issued soon.Ever since the imposition of the nationwide lockdown in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak in the country on March 25, passenger air services were sus pended for both scheduled domestic and international flights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aai-asks-passengers-to-reach-airport-2-hrs-prior-to-departure/story-N73FKzQgDsYBty6S9dQkuJ.html
21-05-2020||India||Shiv Sena leader in UP’s Rampur shot dead, hospital vandalised by supporters||Former Shiv Sena district chief Anurag Sharma, 40, was allegedly shot dead by two unidentified men in Rampur late on Wednesday night, the police said.Sharma was returning home on a motorbike after buying vegetables from the market when the assailants shot him in the back.He was rushed to the hospital where he was declared brought dead.Rampur police chief Superintendent of Police Shagun Gautam said the incident took place at around 8 pm in Jwala Nagar area of the city yesterday while Sharma was returning home on a two-wheeler.“Anurag Sharma was shot dead by two unidentified men yesterday evening while he was going home on a scooter. This happened at Jwala Nagar,” Shagun Gautam said.Police officers are scanning footage from CCTV cameras in and around the market to ascertain the sequence of events and look for clues to identify the assailants.The Rampur police chief said the hospital where Anurag Sharma was taken had been vandalised by miscreants. “We are verifying the facts with the chief medical officer,” said Gautam.Anurag Sharma’s family alleged there was no staff present at the hospital when Sharma was taken for the treatment, the police officer said.Sharma also has several cases registered against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-leader-in-up-s-rampur-shot-dead-hospital-vandalised-by-supporters/story-oEMXZqXXx8AbjrGTJuyXnL.html
21-05-2020||India||BJP’s Madhya Pradesh unit readies for bypoll battle||As it begins preparations for the conduct of the bypolls in 24 assembly constituencies in Madhya Pradesh, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has decided to scale up efforts to reach to the workers and those involved in the farm sector that have been severely hit by the coronavirus pandemic and quell discord over ticket distribution.The date for elections has not been finalised, as all elections have been put on hold because of the pandemic.A senior state functionary said the party has been asked to reinforce its ongoing relief work to ensure that the challenges faced by the workers, many of whom struggled to make their way home, do not impact the electoral outcome.To be sure, most of the workers are not registered as voters in the state and are natives of other states. “While work done on the ground is important, so is the perception. The high command does not want the government’s performance to be measured by a weak response to any challenge,” said the functionary quoted above.Also read: Spurt in Covid-19 cases sees transfers of officials in Madhya PradeshThe bypoll was necessitated after 22 MLAs resigned from the Congress and joined the BJP and two seats fell vacant after the demise of one BJP and one Congress MLA. As per the rules for filling up vacancies, elections have to be held within six months. But since the outbreak of the pandemic, election processes have been halted.While the party is confident of winning with a comfortable majority whenever the bypoll is held, it has two major issues to cope with —discord within its ranks and the state’s response to the pandemic. State unit chief, VD Sharma downplayed the reports of internal strife and said all decisions vis-à-vis ticket distribution will be taken by the parliamentary board of the party. “It is true that the MLAs who quit the Congress have made a sacrifice, it cannot be overlooked, but the party’s central leadership will take the call on ticket distribution,” he said.The BJP was back in the straddle with Shivraj Singh Chouhan as the chief minister in March when the Kamal Nath-led Congress government was voted out after 15 months in power following senior leader and former union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia and 22 MLAs walking out.According a second functionary privy to the developments, the state unit is focusing on strengthening its outreach to help migrant workers and amplifying its social security programmes so that when it goes to people for seeking votes, it has a list of accomplishments to show.“We are currently focusing only on the pandemic and meeting the needs of people. Not only are we setting up infrastructure in place to bring back those migrant workers who have moved out of MP but are also trying to encourage workers from other states to stay put,” said the functionary.In the absence of physical meetings and gatherings, the state party unit has been making good use of technology to stay connected. Last week, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan held a meeting which had in attendance union minister Narendra Singh Tomar, party state president VD Sharma, general secretary (organisation) Suhas Bhagat and senior leader Jyotiraditya Scindia, to chalk out the election strategy.On Saturday, several senior functionaries, including Sharma, spent time at camps set up by the party along the highways to provide food, aid and even footwear to the migrant labourers who were arriving.Will the state’s response to the pandemic and the workers’ crisis determine the political outcome? Amitabh Kundu, a distinguished fellow at the New Delhi-based think tank Research and Information System for Developing Countries, said,” It is hard to say how much the voices of the workers will matter in the power corridors. But there is greater awareness now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-s-madhya-pradesh-unit-readies-for-bypoll-battle/story-Fd8AlmPa4ErpnmqSaLwbXK.html
21-05-2020||India||Maharashtra revised mortality rate of 3.57% still higher than the national average||Maharashtra, which has been hit the hardest in the country by the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, has reported a mortality rate of 3.57%, according to the latest report prepared by the state government’s medical education and drugs department.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe Covid-19 related mortality rate has come down from 7.21% and 3.71% on April 12 and May 12, respectively.However, the revised mortality rate at 3.57% is still higher than the national average at 3.09%.Of the 3,07,072 tests conducted in the state till Wednesday, 12.95% have tested Covid-19 positive. In the past 24 hours, 15% have tested positive of the 14,074 tests conducted. On Wednesday, Maharashtra reported 2,250 new Covid-19 positive cases, as the tally rose to 39,297. The state has reported over 2,000 cases for the fourth consecutive day. On Wednesday, the state also reported 65 deaths, the third-highest single-day figure, and the toll stands at 1,390.Mumbai reported 1,372 new Covid-19 positive cases on Wednesday and also recorded 41 deaths.Also read: State-wise variations in new rules leave citizens puzzledOf these new cases In Mumbai, 150 were recorded on May 17 and 18 but were updated by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Wednesday. And, the rest 1,222 tested positive on Wednesday.Of the 65 deaths, 41 reported were in Mumbai, Pune (13), Navi Mumbai (3), two each in Pimpri-Chinchwad, Solapur, Aurangabad, and Ulhasnagar. Maharashtra has reported 13,375 cases in the past seven days and 415 deaths. While Mumbai recorded 8,371 cases and 245 deaths in the past week.Of the state’s 36 districts, Gadchiroli was the only one in the green zone till Sunday evening. However, eight migrant workers, who returned to the district from Mumbai on Sunday evening, tested Covid-19 positive and now Gadchiroli figures in the orange zone.In Maharashtra, 3,48,508 and 17,638 are under home and institutional quarantine, respectively. The state has 1,849 containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-revised-mortality-rate-of-3-57-still-higher-than-the-national-average/story-K9SnwkCrQiQilEU2tyWX0I.html
21-05-2020||India||Online booking of tickets on IRCTC delayed, Railways blames Cyclone Amphan||The online booking of tickets, which was scheduled to begin at 10 am on Thursday, was delayed. The Railways cited Cyclone Amphan’s landfall and technical issues for the delay and said they are working to fix it.“Firing of trains is a time consuming exercise and it means actual loading of all information on train journey, its booking parametres etc and this is done simultaneously from both the originating zone and terminating zone. Due to cyclonic conditions in the East, the firing from that end is expected to be impacted for some time,” a Railways official said.“All are advised to have patience. Indian Railways is doing this graded restoration to ensure that maximum persons can move in the conditions,” the official added.The official also said that since many people will log in at the same time, it will take some time to fire up the reservation system.Only online e-ticketing will be done through IRCTC website or through Mobile App, and no tickets will be booked across the reservation counter on any railway station, the Railways said.The ARP (advance reservation period) shall be maximum 30 days and RAC and wait list will be generated as per extant rules, it said. Those with waiting list tickets will not be permitted to board the train, the Railways added.No unreserved (UTS) tickets will be issued and no tickets will be issued on board to any passenger during the journey, it said, adding no tatkal (instant) and premium tatkal booking shall be permitted.The Railways had on Wednesday issued a list of 100 pairs of trains that it will operate from June 1, putting in operation popular trains such as Durontos, Sampark Krantis, Jan Shatabdis and Poorva Express.It said that these will have both air conditioned (AC) and non-air conditioned classes and fully reserved coaches.These special trains will run on the pattern of regular trains, covering tier 2 cities and also major state capitals like Mumbai and Kolkata, the Railways said.Just like the 15 pairs of special trains being run on the Rajdhani routes, on these trains too face cover/mask and Aarogya Setu app will be compulsory and passengers have to reach the station 90 minutes before the scheduled departure of train.Only asymptomatic passengers would be allowed to travel and those found symptomatic will get full refund, railways said.These special services shall be in addition to the existing Shramik special trains being run since May 1 and Special AC trains being run since May 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/online-booking-of-tickets-on-irctc-delayed-railways-blames-cyclone-amphan/story-etdeoVpffUR85ag6X2ngzM.html
21-05-2020||India||Airport Authority of India issues guidelines for domestic air travel, ministry says not final||Passengers will have to report two hours in advance and only those who have a departure scheduled in the next four hours will be allowed to enter the terminal building, the Airport Authority of India’s fresh guidelines on domestic air travel state.However, the civil aviation ministry has categorically stated this will not be the final standard operating procedure (SOP) on domestic air travel. The ministry has said the final guidelines on the resumption of air travel will be issued by the ministry later in the day.“The AAI will have to follow the guidelines decided by the civil aviation ministry and the DGCA,” a senior government official said. India will resume domestic flights beginning May 25, the government said on Wednesday, announcing a gradual reboot of air travel that was halted two months ago on the account of the lockdown imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India.“All airports and air carriers are being informed to be ready for operations from 25th May. Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for passenger movement are also being separately issued by the civil aviation ministry,” civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri tweeted. According to the AAI’s guidelines, all passengers will have to compulsorily register on the Aarogya Setu app and the same will be verified by CISF security at the airport. “However, Aarogya Setu is not mandatory for children below 14 years of age. State governments and local administrations will have to ensure the availability of public transport and private cabs for providing connectivity to the airport for passengers,” the AAI has said.“For commuting to and from the airport, both by staff and passengers, only the personal vehicles or select authorised taxi services/transport services with restricted seating to be permitted,” it said.Upon arrival, an announcement will be made in the aircraft by the airline on for deplaning passengers in batches sequentially to maintain social distancing norms.“At each point of interaction with the passengers, the airport operator should try to provide a glass shield or any other transparent separation as far as practically possible, for additional protection of airport personnel and passengers,” it said.Inside planes, middle seats might not be left vacant, although such a proposal was initially on the table, said an official who also informed that measures will be taken to maintain social distancing at airports. On the completion of travel, passengers will have to abide by the guidelines laid down by the destination state.Passengers may also have to quarantine upon reaching their destination depending on the norms decided by the states.“On arrival at the destination airport, passengers will have to adhere to such health protocols as prescribed by the destination states/ UTs,” the guidelines added.Domestic flight services have been put on hold since March 25, when the nationwide lockdown was first imposed. International flights have not arrived in India since March 22. Cargo flights and those evacuating foreign nationals have been operating though.Resuming domestic flight services is seen as yet another step by the government in the direction of a graded exit from the lockdown which has been extended till the end of this month. The curbs have taken a toll on the Indian economy, stalling activities across sectors, including the aviation industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/airport-authority-of-india-issues-guidelines-for-domestic-air-travel-ministry-says-not-final/story-tX9fv3GQfL9hxpQGpPOQ8J.html
21-05-2020||India||Rare black panther spotted at Chhattisgarh’s Achanakmar Tiger Reserve after 7 years||Chhattisgarh forest department officials have sighted a rare black panther at Achanakmar Tiger Reserve in Bilaspur district after seven years.“We sighted the black panther for the first time after seven years. However, we won’t disclose its location for security reasons,” said Vijaya Ratre, deputy director of Achanakmar Tiger Reserve.Earlier, a black panther was sighted at the Udanti-Sitanadi Tiger Reserve in Chhattisgarh’s Gariyaband district.Kabini Wildlife Sanctuary, Dandeli Wildlife Sanctuary, Bhadra Wildlife Sanctuary and Sharavathi Wildlife Sanctuary are said to be the habitats of black panthers in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-forest-dept-officials-spot-rare-black-panther-at-achanakmar-tiger-reserve/story-gw4Oj4urtt1lKdKXHqUIdL.html
21-05-2020||India||Tiger spotted near coal mine in Telangana’s Asifabad, panic among workers||Coal mine workers returning from their duties at Khairiguda open cast mines in Telangana’s Komaram Bheem (Asifabad) district on Wednesday evening shuddered with fear on sighting a tiger wandering on the roadside.A video and pictures of the tiger sitting on a heap of mud adjacent to the road, closer to the Tiryani forests, went viral on social media. The coal mine workers who quickly returned to Tiryani block headquarters informed the forest officials about the tiger.According to a forest official in Asifabad, it could be the same tiger which had been seen in some other villages near the forests for the last few weeks. “We have been trying to capture it, but it has been elusive,” the official said.Apparently, the tiger had come form Kadamba forest in Asifabad district and had sneaked into Tiryani areas. “It was first spotted drinking water at Gundala river under Rebbena block. There were reports that the tiger later wandered into human habitations at Rachapalli village under Tandur block, where it killed a bull,” the forest official said.Also read: Telangana HC asks govt to allow private labs to conduct Covid-19 testsThe same tiger reportedly killed a cow at Golleti open cast mines and another bull at Tumpalli village, creating panic among the locals, five days ago. “We have sounded an alert in the villages and asked the people not to come out after sunset. We told them not to venture into the forest areas,” he said.According to the forest officials, Komaram Bheem (Asifabad) district is surrounded by wild forests belonging to Tadoba tiger reserve and Kawal wildlife sanctuary, which are home to several tigers. These wild beasts keep travelling for several kilometres from place to place in search of prey animals.“On rare occasions, tigers enter human habitations in search of cattle or sheep. They go back into the forests later,” the forest official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tiger-spotted-near-coal-mine-in-telangana-s-asifabad-panic-among-workers/story-nmuf7oSwHTu6Ld34MJK4rI.html
21-05-2020||India||51-yr-old tried to have sex with corpse he pulled out from grave, arrested||Police in Assam’s Dhemaji district have arrested a 51-year-old man on charges of attempting to have sex with the body of a 14-year-old girl who had died in suspicious circumstances and was buried by her family members.Fellow villagers caught the accused, Akan Saikia, in the act on May 18. “The girl died under suspicious circumstances on May 17 and was buried the same night by her family members near the Simen river, which flows close to the village. Few villagers were also present,” said Dhananjay Ghanawat, superintendent of police (SP), Dhemaji.On the afternoon of May 18, some fishermen noticed the accused trying to rape the body of the girl. The accused had allegedly dug up the grave and taken out the body. He was nabbed and handed over to the police.“The accused doesn’t appear to be mentally deranged but is a psychopath. He’s a history-sheeter as well,” said Ghanawat.The accused had married twice and in 2018 one of his wives had accused him of domestic violence. He was convicted and was serving his sentence in Dhemaji jail. But he was released on parole in end-March following a Supreme Court order to decongest jails due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.“The accused appears to be promiscuous. Some have alleged that he might have sexually harassed the minor that led her to commit suicide,” Ghanawat said.The police have exhumed the body, which was reburied by the villagers, and sent it for post-mortem examination and the result is pending.“The accused has confessed to his crime in judicial custody,” the SP added.Saikia has been booked under Sections 306 and 377 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for abetment of suicide and unnatural sex and also under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-51-yr-old-man-arrested-for-trying-to-rape-dead-minor/story-IiXqtYLpwth5beDnHA8mkL.html
21-05-2020||India||AAI announces SOPs for flights: What is allowed at airports, what isn’t||The Airports Authority of India (AAI) issued Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for airports as the government announced resumption of domestic flights. The air travel was halted two months ago on account of a lockdown imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Apart from other things, the SOPs say that Aarogya Setu mobile application is not mandatory for children below 14 years of age. The app is being widely promoted by the government as it helps in tracing Covid-19 infection in the vicinity.Other passengers, however, are required to install the app on their phone and it will be verified by the airport staff or Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel stationed at the gate. Passengers who don’t show “green” on the app, won’t be allowed to enter.They have also been asked to wear masks and gloves.“Passengers must compulsorily walk through thermal screening zone on city side before entering airport terminal building. Airport operators must make appropriate arrangement for sanitisation of passengers’ baggage before entry into terminal building,” the SOPs released by AAP say.The AAI has asked parking and kerb areas to be strictly monitored in coordination with CISF and traffic police to prevent congestion and maintain social distancing. Only personal vehicles and authorised taxi services will be allowed to enter.It has also asked state governments and local authorities to ensure availability of public transport and taxis for providing connectivity the the airport for passengers as well as staff of the airlines.Passengers have been advised to reach airport two hours before the scheduled time of departure of their flights. “Passengers who have departure in next four hours will only be allowed to enter the building,” the AAI says in the document.However, the civil aviation ministry has categorically stated this will not be the final SOPs on domestic air travel. The ministry has said the final guidelines on resumption of air travel will be issued by the ministry later in the day.The government on Wednesday announced the resumption of domestic flights from May 25. “All airports and air carriers are being informed to be ready for operations from 25th May. Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for passenger movement are also being separately issued by civil aviation ministry,” civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri tweeted.The government’s plan for the resumption of services may feature recommending a price band for different routes keeping in mind “the interest of both the consumer and the airline”, a civil aviation ministry official who did not want to be named said.Inside planes, middle seats might not be left vacant though such a proposal was initially on the table, according to the official, who also said measures will be taken to maintain social distancing at airports. On completion of travel, passengers will have to abide by the guidelines laid down by the destination state.In the first phase, the flights are likely to cater to all major Tier-1 cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aai-announces-sops-for-flights-what-is-allowed-at-airports-what-isn-t/story-G1ddQE7dwLGHcxFZ5bzrMM.html
21-05-2020||India||Highest single-day rise in Delhi cases, tally crosses 11,000-mark: A look at state-wise Covid-19 numbers||Covid-19 cases in the country are rising unabated. On Thursday, the national tally rose to 112,359 as per the data updated by the Ministry of Health.Over 45,000 patients have recovered from coronavirus across the country while 3,435 people have lost their lives to the deadly contagion. Maharashtra continues to be the worst-affected state. In Delhi, Covid-19 cases rose by 534 - the highest single-day spike reported in the national capital.Here’s taking a look at the statewise breakup of Covid-19 cases, deaths, and recoveries across the country.Also read: Second-biggest single-day spike takes Covid-19 cases in India to over 1.1 lakhMaharashtraMaharashtra continues to lead the state tally with 39,297 coronavirus cases. Covid-19 cases in the state are inching toward the 40,000 mark. The state has recorded 1,390 deaths so far while over 10,000 patients (10,318) have recovered from Covid-19. Mumbai alone has over 24,000 coronavirus cases. Tamil NaduThe southern state has the second-highest number of coronavirus cases. Tamil Nadu has reported 13,191 coronavirus cases so far while 5,882 people have recovered and 87 have died.GujaratThe Covid-19 tally in the state, as per the Ministry of Health, stands at 12,537. Gujarat has seen 5,219 people recover from coronavirus while 749 people have died.DelhiThe national capital reported the highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 534 fresh infections. With this, Delhi’s Covid-19 tally has jumped to 11,088. One hundred and seventy-six people have died from the infection here while 5,192 have made a recovery.Also read: After a lull, two more Covid-19 containment zones added in DelhiRajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 6,015 on Thursday. The state has reported 147 fatalities while 3,404 patients have recovered from the infection.Madhya PradeshMadhya Pradesh has reported 5,735 positive cases of coronavirus till date. Two hundred and sixty-seven people have died from Covid-19 in the state while 2,733 have recovered.Uttar PradeshThe number of Covid-19 positive cases have jumped to 5,175 in Uttar Pradesh. While 3,066 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 127 have died from the infection here.West BengalThe number of infected cases in West Bengal reached 3,103 on Thursday. There have been 253 deaths and 1,136 recoveries in the state.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 2,602 positive Covid-19 patients and 1,640 cases of recovery. Fifty-three people have died.TelanganaAs many as 1, 661 people have been infected from coronavirus in Telangana till date. Thousand and fifteen people have made a recovery from the virus while 40 people have died from Covid-19.Punjab The Covid-19 tally in Punjab jumped to 2,005 on Thursday. While 38 people have died in Punjab, 1,794 patients have recovered. BiharThe state has reported 1,674 cases of coronavirus till date. Ten people have died while 571 patients have recovered. KarnatakaThe state has recorded 1,462 Covid-19 cases. As many as 556 people have been cured and discharged while forty-one patients have died.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 1,390. Eighteen people have died from the infection while 678 have been were cured.Odisha The state has 1,052 Covid-19 positive patients, 307 have recovered while six people have died. Haryana The state has reported 993 coronavirus cases so far. Fourteen people have died from Covid-19 in Haryana while six hundred and forty-eight people have recovered from Covid-19 in the state.KeralaKerala reported 666 coronavirus cases on Thursday. Four people have died due to coronavirus in the state while 502 people have successfully recovered.Jharkhand The state has 231 Covid-19 cases, three patients have died and 127 have recovered.ChandigarhOver 200 people (202) have contracted the Covid-19 disease here. While 57 have recovered, three have died. TripuraCovid-19 cases in Tripura have been on a rise as the cases rise to 173 in the state. One hundred and thirty-three patients have recovered from coronavirus here.Assam The North-Eastern state has reported 170 Covid-19 cases. Four people have died due to coronavirus here while 48 people have recovered.Uttarakhand One hundred and twenty-two people have been infected by coronavirus Uttarakhand till date. Fifty-three patients have recovered from the infection, one patient has died. Chhattisgarh One hundred and fifteen people have tested positive for coronavirus in Chhattisgarh. The number of Covid-19 recoveries in the state has risen 59 while no death has been reported. Himachal Pradesh The state has reported 110 Covid-19 cases. Three patients have died and 54 have recovered. GoaThe coronavirus cases in Goa have gone up to 50 in Goa. As many as seven people have recovered from the deadly contagion here. Ladakh The Union territory has witnessed 44 cases of coronavirus of which 43 people have recovered. Andaman and Nicobar IslandsAll 33 coronavirus cases reported here have recovered. No deaths have been reported here.Manipur The North-Eastern state has recorded 25 coronavirus cases, two patients have recovered. Puducherry Nineteen cases of coronavirus have been reported here. 9 have recovered, no deaths have been reported.Meghalaya The state has reported 14 cases and one Covid-19 death so far, 12 patients have recovered. One patient has died. States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Dadar Nagar Havel, Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram. All patients in Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram have recovered. Sikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case yet.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highest-single-day-rise-in-cases-in-delhi-tally-crosses-11-000-mark-a-look-at-state-wise-coronavirus-numbers/story-vOgbpWb3F4OrwQJ38yf4TO.html
21-05-2020||India||TikTok in India: To ban or not to ban? The debate heats up after sexually violent videos draw flak||Finding ways to kill lockdown boredom, people seem to be going overboard with both creating, and consuming content online. However, for TikTok users, it seems, there’s no defined norms, as some users are promoting misogynist and sexually violent content in the name of entertainment.Just a day after TikToker Faizal Siddiqui’s account was removed following a video showing him throwing liquid (suggesting acid) on a girl’s face who refused his advances, another repulsive video surfaced on the platform — this time advocating rape. It shows TikToker Mujibur Rehman and his friend, zipping up their pants as the girl sobs and adjusts her clothes.Enraged, netizens made #BanTikTok, #TikTokExposed, #TikTokDown trend on Twitter.  After promoting acid and love jihad ,Tiktok'er Mujibur rehman and co are showing off how cool is to r@pe a woman ..... scumsalso see his expression while he pulls up his pant zip in the end !!#BanTikTokInIndia pic.twitter.com/sBW6ScAyvREXPERTS SPEAKSeeking “a total ban” on the Chinese app, Reka Sharma, chairperson, National Commission for Women (NCW), tweeted: “... TikTok is pushing youngsters towards unproductive life where they are living only for few followers...”Activists and NGOs working for women safety feel that mindset is the whole problem here and that needs to change first.Yogita Bhayani, Founder, PARI (People Against Rapes in India), says, “My heart was bleeding seeing those videos. I work with rape victims and know how they suffer. I felt so bad looking at that girl in the video. Do these kids even know the meaning of rape? I’m sure their parents are clueless about the content their child is creating, and they feel proud that of them being popular on TikTok. I hold them equally responsible.” I am of the strong openion that this @TikTok_IN should be banned totally and will be writting to GOI. It not only has these objectionable videos but also pushing youngsters towards unproductive life where they are living only for few followers and even dying when no. Decline. https://t.co/MyeuRbjZAyLike many, Bhayana also blames it on the sheer lack of gender sensitisation among Indian youth. “Whenever we talk about sexual violence, it’s not related to men or women, both need to be sensitised — at homes, in schools, offices, police stations and everywhere,” she says, adding that to some extent, she also blames “Bollywood song for objectifying women that are used as background music for such videos.”CELEBS RAISE CONCERNFrequent users on TikTok, whether celebrities or not, assert that one has to take responsibility on the kind of content they are making and sharing. Actor Shilpa Shetty Kundra, who is quite active on TikTok, calls these videos “terrible”, and questions, “How can it be entertaining? There are strict community guidelines on these platforms dependent on UGC (user generated content), where anything objectionable is removed immediately. I strongly condemn such content”.Kundra also urges influencers to be “responsible for their content”, she also calls for “strictest actions when faltered”.Actor Vikrant Massey, who played an activist helping acid attack victims in Chhaapak, feels these videos somewhere show a collective psyche of most of us. “These are damn unpleasant videos to watch. Koi yeh videos bana raha hai, koi dekh raha hai, koi forward bhi kar raha hai. So, the problem is with all of us as a society that we let such TikTok videos resurface. And given that it’s happening under supervision and authority makes it more problematic. It also shows out subconscious cognizance with patriarchy and crime against women with such insensitive things,” he says. What on earth is wrong with people? This is depraved. How can you allow this kind of content on your platform @TikTok_IN This man needs to be taken to task. As for the woman in the video-do you realise what immense harm you are causing by participating in this? https://t.co/I5OLTEZGVeMassey further adds that since we know such content exists online, “Counselling is what we lack. By suspending accounts or filing an FIR, you just dust off the issue. Grassroot problem needs to be solved and parents need to be counselled.” Actor Taapsee Pannu, who played a sexual attack victim in Pink (2016) and stood up against domestic violence in Thappad, feels the age-old misogyny is so deep-rooted that “it’ll a long time for us to wash it out.”However, she says that it’s for the content creators to understand what they’re promoting. “We can’t police each and every one of them. They might stop making videos of such kind but what’s the guarantee they won’t practice it in real. If we really have to deal with it, it had to dealt from the root,” Pannu asserts.Making a rather strong point, she further adds that we should stop making these TikTokers ‘influencers’ by totally disregarding their content. “These people most of the times make stuff that they know will get eyeballs and attention towards them. It’s their few minutes of fame. We should just look through them and make them feel insignificant, so they realise that this isn’t how they are going to get our attention.”WHAT TIKTOK HAS TO SAY?As the debate raged, TikTok shared a statement with a message on social media: “TikTok is a platform that celebrates creativity & expression. We aim to create a positive in-app environment that brings people and communities together and request all our users to respect this intent.”  TikTok is a platform that celebrates creativity & expression. We aim to create a positive in-app environment that brings people and communities together and request all our users to respect this intent.A post shared by  TikTok India (@indiatiktok) on May 19, 2020 at 7:08am PDTMeanwhile, Harshal Hirve, Community Manager at Tiktok India, says it’s practically impossible to monitor each and every user’s content. “We have a moderation team that treats all creators in the same way, and it’s not that only when popular handles post something, we monitor that. We handle a lot of users and such cases on daily basis, but just because Faizal was a popular creator and the mess he created, this issue got highlighted. We have guidelines and we also train creators about how to post content and what should not be posted. And if someone is making videos of his own, we’re not responsible for it. But, if something disturbs our platform, we will definitely action.”In fact, amid the whole debate of banning the app in the Indian market, a news came out that Kevin Mayer, Chairman of International division of Walt Disney and global streaming chief of Disney+ will be Tiktok global CEO from June.SELF MONITOR THE CONTENTThe bigger question at hand remains: Is it time TikTok faces a mass ban?We reached out to several Tiktok stars, too, but since most of them are young, even minors, their parents didn’t want them to comment. However, the father of a popular TikToker and TV actor, says on the condition on anonymity, “I keep a close check on whatever content my daughter creates and posts on these platforms. I do all I can to protect her.”  Behind Every Successful Person Lies A Pack Of Haters 🔥 #manojjadhav #manojjadhavmj #dance #dancer #instagram #instagood #tiktok #tiktokindia #helo #facebook #explore #explorepage #foryou #foryoupage #likeforlikes #like4likes #likeforfollow #follow #followforfollowback #follow4followback #followers #support #hardwork #never #betrayedA post shared by  Manoj Jadhav (@manoj_jadhav_mj) on May 13, 2020 at 8:50pm PDTPointing that there are both good and bad sides to this, 27-year-old TikTok user, Manoj Jadhav feels banning the app won’t help, but the accounts of specific people need to be removed.He explains, “There are so many poor people yet so talented, and with their dancing, acting, have become so popular on TikTok. But there are some who’re spreading hate and negativity in the name of content. They need to be banned. They create offensive content only to increase their follower count, and think just by making a duet with a girl, they can become us famous.”Bhayana adds, “Of course banning these apps is an immediate solution, but what’s the surety that nothing else will pop up? How will you ban pornography which is a bigger monster and a click away?” Interact with the author at @monikarawal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tiktok-in-india-to-ban-or-not-to-ban/story-ychG1b7sTqC9FqDwE2n5hN.html
21-05-2020||India||24 dead as Cyclone Amphan leaves behind trail of destruction in India, Bangladesh||Cyclone Amphan, which barrelled through Odisha and West Bengal on Wednesday, has killed 24 people.The storm began its landfall at 2:30 pm on Wednesday, with sustained wind speeds of 155-165 kmph spiralling up to 185 kmph. The storm weakened as it moved ahead and is currently centred over Bangladesh.While 12 people have been killed in West Bengal, news agency Associated Press reported 10 deaths in neighbouring Bangladesh. Also Watch | Cyclone Amphan leaves trail of destruction in Odisha & West BengalAmong those dead in Bangladesh are a five-year-old boy and a 75-year-old man, both hit by falling trees, and a cyclone emergency volunteer who drowned.Two other fatalities were reported in Odisha, including an infant crushed when the mud wall of the family’s hut collapsed in heavy rain.“The super cyclonic storm ‘Amphan’ moved north northeastwards with a speed of 27 kmph during past 6 hours, further weakened into a cyclonic storm and lay centred today at 5.30 am over Bangladesh near Lat. 24.7°N and Long. 89.5°E about 270 km north-northeast of Kolkata, 150 km south of Dhubri and 110 km south-southeast of Rangpur (Bangladesh),” the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its bulletin on Thursday morning.West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Wednesday night that the damage was difficult to assess immediately, pointing out that entire islands had been cut off from the mainland and many areas were left without electricity or phone connectivity.“We are facing three crises: the coronavirus, the thousands of migrants who are returning home and now the cyclone,” said Banerjee.In Bangladesh, at least a million people are without electricity, according to the Ministry of Power.Amphan is the strongest cyclone to have originated from the Bay of Bengal in decades. High winds and torrid rains triggered by the cyclone’s movement pounded villages and cities in coatal Odisha and West Bengal, bringing down power lines, uprooting trees and inundating homes.Amphan is a Thai name that means sky.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/21-dead-as-cyclone-amphan-leaves-behind-trail-of-destruction-in-india-bangladesh/story-q5sYAOyBF8K0T3xEAi4xaK.html
21-05-2020||India||Second-biggest single-day spike takes Covid-19 cases in India to over 1.1 lakh||The nationwide Covid-19 tally crossed 1.1 lakh on Thursday with 5,609 new cases getting detected in the last 24 hours. This is the second-biggest single-day spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the country.According to the Union health ministry update at 8 am, the total number of cases in the country are 1,12,359. Out of these, the number of active cases are 63,624, those recovered are 45,299. As many as 3,435 people have died in total, the ministry said.The Union Health Ministry had said on Wednesday that the recovery rate among those having tested positive for Covid-19 has risen to nearly 40 per cent, from about seven per cent before the lockdown began on March 25. It also said that hospital support was needed by less than 7 per cent patients.On Wednesday, the number of cases across the country rose by more than 5,600, the country’s biggest single-day jump, to reach 1,06,750.The health ministry said on Wednesday that the Covid-19 death toll has risen to 3,303 after 140 more deaths were reported in the last 24 hours (between Tuesday and Wednesday).The number of coronavirus disease cases have doubled in nearly two weeks - up from 49,391 on May 6 to 1,06,139 on Wednesday in the fourth phase of the lockdown.The nationwide lockdown was initially imposed for a 21-day period till April 14, but later got extended till May 3 in the second phase and then for another 14-day third phase till May 17. A two-week-long fourth phase is now underway till May 31, but with several restrictions having been relaxed to boost economic activities.Union Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Wednesday that domestic flights will resume in a calibrated manner from May 25, two months after the services were shut due to the coronavirus.The Union Home Ministry also said later in the night that domestic air travel has been removed from the list of prohibited activities during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-biggest-single-day-spike-takes-covid-19-cases-in-india-to-over-1-1-lakh/story-eDqlpY7L9DVgxoUZyFc0aP.html
21-05-2020||India||Remembering former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi on his 29th death anniversary, PM Modi pays tribute||May 21 marks a sad day in the history of Indian politics. A day that will never be forgotten. On this day, twenty-nine years back, former prime minister and stalwart Congress leader Rajiv Gandhi was assassinated during an election campaign in the year 1991. As the nation remembers Gandhi on his 29th death anniversary today, here’s revisiting the life of the Bharat Ratna recipient.Rajiv Ratna Gandhi was born on August 20, 1944, in Bombay, to former prime minister Indira Gandhi and freedom fighter, politician Feroze Gandhi. He served as the sixth prime minister of the country, from 1984 to 1989, and was also the youngest ever to hold the office.  Rajiv Gandhi took charge of the country as the prime minister after the assassination of his mother and former PM Indira Gandhi in the year 1984. Gandhi came from the politically powerful Nehru–Gandhi family, associated with the Indian National Congress party. His maternal grandfather Jawaharlal Nehru was the first Prime Minister of India.On his death anniversary, tributes to former PM Shri Rajiv Gandhi.For most of his life, Gandhi remained apolitical. He went to the United Kingdom for studies and returned to India in 1966. Gandhi was a professional pilot for the state-owned Indian Airlines. In 1968, he married Sonia Gandhi, the current president of the Congress party and the United Progressive Alliance chairperson. The couple had two children Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. Rahul Gandhi served as the party chief and is a Member of Parliament. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is the AICC general secretary at present. Gandhi entered the political arena after the demise of his brother Sanjay Gandi in a fighter plane crash in 1980. A year later, he marked his political success by winning his brother’s Parliamentary constituency Amethi, Uttar Pradesh in the Lok Sabha elections. He also served as the Congress general secretary before assuming office as the prime minister.Gandhi remained Congress chief until the 1991 Lok Sabha elections. On this day, twenty-nine years back, he was assassinated during an election campaign by an Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) suicide bomber. His wife, Sonia Gandhi took charge of the Congress party and became the party president in the year 1998.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remembering-former-prime-minister-rajiv-gandhi-on-his-29th-death-anniversary-pm-modi-pays-tribute/story-7Ma8c37u62XC6I93vCufjP.html
21-05-2020||India||Gangster Chhota Shakeel’s sister dies||Fehmida Arif Shaikh, sister of fugitive gangster Chhota Shakeel, died here on Wednesday, a senior police official said.Fehmida Arif Shaikh, who was married to Arif Abu Bakr Shaikh alias Arif Bhaijan, died after brief illness, he said.Arif Shaikh allegedly headed Shakeel’s operations in India before being arrested in 2018 by the Anti-Extortion Cell of the Mumbai crime branch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gangster-chhota-shakeel-s-sister-dies/story-KBK9y8gizMKsaDFChfo7PI.html
21-05-2020||India||Domestic flights to resume from Monday, global cases reach 5 million: Covid-19 news today||The government on Wednesday allowed the gradual resumption of domestic flight services beginning May 25, in yet another step towards a graded exit from the lockdown imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease. Meanwhile, Covid-19 cases across the world crossed five million, a milestone that was reached in just five months.Domestic flight services to resume from May 25India will resume domestic flights beginning May 25, the government said on Wednesday, announcing a gradual reboot of air travel that was halted two months ago on account of a lockdown imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read moreCovid-19: What you need to know todayThis is the 60th edition of a column on Covid-19 I’ve written pretty much everyday since March 19. Perhaps because I write it, I get asked a lot of questions. Read moreState-wise variations in new rules leave citizens puzzledCan you go to office? Can you drive your car across to the next state, or the next city? Can you take public transport? Can you even get a haircut? On March 25, the day India imposed the lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease, the answer to all these questions was a resounding no. Read more3k tested under Ayushman Bharat: NHAIn the month-and-a-half since treatment of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) was made free under Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojna (AB-PMJAY), at least 2,000 people have either been treated or are being treated for the viral disease under the world’s largest public health insurance scheme. Read moreList of 200 new trains released, AC includedThe ministry of railways issued guidelines Wednesday for resuming 100 pairs of regular passenger trains from June 1 with both AC and non-AC coaches, revising its earlier order allowing only non-ac trains. Read moreTwo-metre distance may not be enough: StudyDroplets of saliva can travel as far as six metres even in low wind speeds of 4kmph, a new study has found, indicating that current social distancing guidelines of two metres may be insufficient to stop a Covid-19 patient from transmitting the disease. Read moreCovid-19 crisis: Asymptomatic people can infect surfacesIn a finding that has major implications for people using public transport and sharing office space as the lockdown is relaxed in India, a study has found that asymptomatic and presymtomatic people with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are highly infectious and can extensively contaminate the environment in a very short time. Read more Global coronavirus cases cross 5 million in less than 5 monthsThe number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases crossed the 5-million mark on Wednesday, according to a compilation of figures by Worldometer, as the pandemic continued to devastate the globe where close to 325,000 people have now died due to it and millions more find themselves unemployed and at the risk of poverty. Read moreBharat Biotech ties up with US varsity for Covid vaccineBharat Biotech has partnered with the US-based Thomas Jefferson University (TJU) to develop its experimental vaccine Coravax against Covid-19 under the accelerated development programme. Read moreOnly 6% cases need hospitalisation, over 40,000 have recovered: GovtJust about 6.39% of active coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in India need hospitalisation, according to the latest government data that indicates the outbreak has not been as severe in the country as in certain other countries. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-flights-to-resume-from-monday-global-cases-reach-5-million-covid-19-news-today/story-1xgXfWrnPzxGGOtzi7qI8K.html
21-05-2020||India||Spurt in Covid-19 cases sees transfers of officials in Madhya Pradesh; chief minister should go, says Congress||The Madhya Pradesh government on Wednesday transferred Khandwa district collector and superintendent of police, a day after the small border town with Maharashtra saw 90 new Covid-19 patients in a span 24 hours.The Collector, 2010-batch IAS officer Tanvi Sundriyal, was replaced with another 2010-batch IAS officer Anay Dwivedi and was posted as a deputy secretary in the state secretariat, chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains ordered.A 2012-batch IPS officer, Shiv Dayal, was replaced by another 2012-batch officer and commander of Special Armed Force’s 7th battalion Vivek Singh. Dayal will be new commander of the battalion, a Home department order said.These officers are not alone to have faced axe for spike in Covid-19 cases.On May 4, collector of Ujjain, Shashank Mishra, and on May 7, SP Sachin Atulkar were shifted when the city became a Covid-19 hotspot with the death rate being highest among big cities.Indore, the neighbouring district of Ujjain, saw a similar situation earlier when its collector Lokesh Jatav was shifted and replaced with Manish Singh on March 28. Three days later, Indore police chief deputy inspector general (DIG) of police Ruchivardhan Mishra was shifted to a smaller district in the region. However, when Indore collector was shifted, the city had not become a Covid-19 hotspot but virus was spreading fast in certain localities.A day after he took oath as chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan shifted chief secretary Gopal Reddy. However, it had nothing to do with any Covid-19 situation. Reddy was replaced with Iqbal Singh Bains, Chouhan’s trusted officer, who had been the principal secretary during his previous term as the CM. Reddy was shifted barely a week after his appointment.Then commissioner, health services, Prateek Hajela, was shifted on April 1 - an unusual instance of the state government making public the CM’s displeasure with an officer for not able to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic.A tweet from the state government on April 1 evening said, “Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan instructed immediate removal of Prateek Hajela from the post of commissioner, health services on his extreme carelessness towards his duties amid the Covid-19 pandemic.”The other notable transfers in health department include that of principal secretary, health department, Pallavi Govil Jain and National Health Mission (NHM)’s integrated disease surveillance programme (IDSP) director, Swati Meena Nayak. The chief medical and health officers of Bhopal, Ujjain and Khandwa were also transferred. All these officers were involved in tackling Covid-19 situation. Public health expert Amulya Nidhi said, “Frequent transfers are no solutions. Indore has become one of major Covid-19 hotspot in the country despite transfers. In Bhopal there are no transfers of collector and DIG police but it is still a major Covid spot in the country. Integrated disease surveillance programme (IDSP) team in health department has seen changes at least thrice. The government must think beyond transfers to see where the problem lies. The fact is the government relies more on bureaucrats than the doctors and those officials who have knowledge of medicines. It’s pandemic, not a riot situation.”The state Congress has launched an attack on the government.State Congress president’s media coordinator Narendra Saluja asked, “If inefficiency is the reason behind these transfers then why chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan should not go from his post under whose leadership the state government failed to control coronavirus in the state and almost entire state has been affected by the disease except five districts? The entire state has earned a bad name as it is one of the worst managed states in the country. Either Chouhan should step down or the Prime Minister Narendra Modi should remove him immediately.”Despite efforts chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains and director general of police (DGP) Vivek Johri couldn’t be reached for their comments. They didn’t take phone calls and didn’t respond to messages.However, former chief secretary of Madhya Pradesh KS Sharma said, “Though transfers of officials from any district may not appear a solution immediately, it all depends on the perception of the state government about the particular situation. If a government feels that any officer or officers have failed to control any situation it sends other officers to address the particular situation. The government might have felt that the lockdown restrictions were not complied with strictly in these districts and protocol followed, hence the transfers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spurt-in-covid-19-cases-sees-transfers-of-officials-chief-minister-should-go-says-congress/story-cMJsQRiMzA97BrMbFelBFL.html
21-05-2020||India||State-wise variations in new rules leave citizens puzzled||Can you go to office? Can you drive your car across to the next state, or the next city? Can you take public transport? Can you even get a haircut? On March 25, the day India imposed the lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease, the answer to all these questions was a resounding no. There was one rule, and all citizens had to abide by the restrictions. Today, even as lockdown 4.0 has got officially extended to May 31, the answer to the questions is — depends; depends on where you are and which state jurisdiction has adopted what rules. So if you are in Delhi, you can’t get a hair cut and will have to live with that long beard or unkempt look for some more time, but if you are in Thiruvananthapuram, you can walk into a salon. If you are in Gurugram or Noida, you can drive down to Delhi — but if you are in Delhi, you may not be able drive back to Gurugram or Noida. If you are in Bengaluru, you can work in office at full capacity. But if you have an office in Mumbai, your office can only have one-third of the staff. If you are in Kolkata and need to take a quick auto ride with your spouse, both of you can hop in to one auto rickshaw. But if you are in Delhi, both of you will have to take two separate autos. This, often bewildering, set of rules symbolises lockdown 4.0. Advocates say it is a better reflection of local realities, with states now having the power to decide zones and extent of activity in each area; others believe that this creates confusion for individuals, companies, and even local government authorities. Take companies. A company’s office in Delhi or Bengaluru may have started functioning from Tuesday but its office in Mumbai has remained closed, due to the lockdown. Maharashtra government has decided to enforce lockdown 3.0 regulations in Mumbai, in which only 33% of workers are allowed in non-containment areas. Eighteen of the 27 municipal corporations in the state, including all in and around Mumbai, are in the red zone.“It (restrictions in Mumbai) has created some functional problems for us, as our head office is in Mumbai,” said a Bengaluru-based systems analyst, Srinivasa Murthy, working with a multinational information technology company. Most companies had to introduce city-specific working protocols as lockdown norms are not same in all cities. “It has added to our work but we have to deal with it,” commented an HR manager in a second Bengaluru-based IT company, requesting anonymity. Or take public transport. After 56 days, public transport — buses, cabs and auto rickshaws — returned to many cities, with different city norms. In Kolkata, only 20 passengers per bus are allowed. In Bengaluru, buses can run up to half of its capacity. Autos in Bengal can carry two passengers and in Delhi only one. But the ease in curbs has often not translated into passengers, for there appears to be caution.Or take inter-state travel.While Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana governments have allowed inter-state travel, the administrations in Noida and Gurugram have prohibited it. In Maharashtra, even inter-district travel is difficult. There is an even bigger issue with long-distance travel, with citizens at a loss in the absence of clarity. KC Jain, a cancer survivor, living in Vishal Khand area of Lucknow, wanted to drive down to Jodhpur to bring his wife back. He applied for an e-pass, which was rejected. “My wife is stuck in Rajasthan for nearly two months,” he said.Kerala and Punjab have allowed barber shops. Delhi and Mumbai have not. Uttarakhand and Rajasthan have come up with strict conditions — only one person is to be allowed inside a barber shop at a time and there must be proper provision of masks, sanitisers and thermal scanners. UP and MP will allow salons and barber shops from Thursday.And the experience of a hair cut itself has changed, for both the customer and the barber. Joseph Mathew walked into a salon in Thiruvananthapuram carrying his own towel, for a haircut, his first during the lockdown, and was surprised to find his barber was covered from head to toe in a protective gear. “I never imagined such a scene,” he said, as two customers got their hair done in distant corners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/state-wise-variations-in-new-rules-leave-citizens-puzzled/story-TU6JqF7qQfr69TxrXSyJ0N.html
21-05-2020||India||After a lull, two more Covid-19 containment zones added in Delhi||The Delhi administration on Wednesday added two more areas to its list of Covid-19 containment zones. This comes after nearly 3 weeks since any new zone was added as a containment zone in Delhi. Both areas, Zamrudpur in Greater Kailash and Dakshinpuri, are in South Delhi.   The South Delhi district administration on Wednesday issued the orders on the two containment zones after the health department directed all district magistrates to create such zones as per the existing guidelines.The department’s direction came after a mismatch between the number of coronavirus cases in the national capital and the number of containment zones was observed. While the Covid-19 cases in Delhi recently breached the 10,000-mark in Delhi, the number of containment zones have seen a falling trend. According to government data, the number of Covid-19 containment zones in the city stood at 76 on Monday, 70 on Tuesday and 69 on Wednesday.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, earlier this week, urged the residents of the national capital to show discipline during the fourth phase of the coronavirus lockdown. The chief minister said that people must learn to live with coronavirus while protecting themselves and others around them. This came as economic activities and public transport, other than Delhi Metro, resumed in the national capital this week amid lockdown 4. The number of coronavirus cases in Delhi crossed the 11,000 mark on Wednesday with 534 more people testing positive, while the death toll climbed to 176, news agency PTI reported. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-a-lull-two-more-covid-19-containment-zones-added-in-delhi/story-rMeUa4pja1E6R4XbXQeevM.html
21-05-2020||India||From Maharashtra to Delhi: List of states with more than 10,000 Covid-19 cases in India||The number of coronavirus cases in the country is on the rapid rise. Although the national tally has breached the one-lakh mark, the Ministry of Health says that the rate of recovery in the country shows a positive sign. On Wednesday, ministry’s joint secretary Lav Agarwal said that Covid-19 recovery rate is around 39.62% in India. Despite this, there are four states where the incidence of coronavirus is quite high and the tally has breached the 10,000-mark. In Maharashtra, coronavirus cases soar above 35,000.Here’s a look at states with over 10,000 Covid-19 cases:MaharashtraThe state is inching toward a grim milestone. More than one-third of Covid-19 cases in the country come from Maharashtra which has reported more than 37,000 coronavirus cases. As of Wednesday, the state has reported 1,325 deaths while more than 9,600 people have recovered from the infection. Mumbai is the worst affected city not only in Maharashtra but in the entire country, accounting for more than 22,000 coronavirus cases.  Tamil NaduThe southern state has reported more than 12,000 coronavirus cases and 84 Covid-19 fatalities. More than 4,800 patients have recovered in the state.GujaratAs per the Ministry of Health, coronavirus cases in Gujarat have crossed the 12,000-mark. Gujarat has seen more than 700 people die from Covid-19 while more than 5,000 people have recovered from the disease or have been discharged from the hospitals. Ahmedabad is the worst-hit district here accounting for more than half of the overall cases.DelhiOver 10,000 coronavirus cases have been reported in the national capital so far. More than 160 people have died in Delhi due to coronavirus while over 4,700 patients have recovered from the deadly contagion. A day after the fourth phase of coronavirus lockdown kicked-in and the national capital braced up for relaxation in measures, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal took to Twitter and urged the citizens to follow the lockdown with discipline to fight Covid-19 Over 5,000 Covid-19 casesRajasthan and Madhya Pradesh have reported more than 5,000 coronavirus cases till date. Over 3,000 Covid-19 casesIn Uttar Pradesh, coronavirus cases are rapidly inching toward the 5,000-mark. West Bengal nears the 3,000-mark with over 2,900 coronavirus cases till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-maharashtra-to-delhi-list-of-states-with-more-than-10-000-covid-19-cases-in-india/story-FP3pjd8r7ts11Hgc7Fnm3L.html
21-05-2020||India||Collect nasal samples from dead bodies for Covid-19 test before sending to mortuary: ICMR||Nasal swab samples from bodies of suspected Covid-19 cases should be collected for testing of coronavirus infection at the emergency before moving the body to mortuary, the ICMR said.According to the ‘Standard Guidelines for Medico-legal autopsy in Covid-19 deaths in India’ released by the ICMR on Tuesday, if the Covid-19 test report is awaited, the dead body must not be released from the mortuary until the final report is received and after the formalities, it must be handed over to the district administration.“It is advisable to collect Nasopharyngeal swab at the emergency department/casualty/ward/ICU and should be sent for Covid-19 RT-PCR test in all suspected cases before moving the body to mortuary for preservation if the same was not sent in due hospital course,” the guidelines said.Asymptomatic infected people and patients in incubation period may not meet the diagnostic criteria for suspected cases, but if they have possible epidemiological history, all dead bodies without reliable clinical/epidemiological history and all unidentified dead bodies should be treated as suspected Covid-19 deaths. “Cases with negative swab results also should be treated as suspected Covid-19 deaths as false negative result is not uncommon,” the guidelines stated.At no time, more than two relatives must be present near the body and they must maintain a distance of at least one meter from the body. The body must be identified through the plastic bag, without opening the bag, and it must be done in the presence of law enforcing agencies. “The body must be taken to the burial/cremation ground in presence of law enforcing agencies, where not more than five relatives of the deceased should be allowed,” it said.In case of burial, upper surface should be cemented and earmarked. The body must be cremated in electric crematorium, wherever possible, so that the movement and handling of the body is minimised, the guidelines stated. Religious rituals which require touching the bodies should be avoided like bathing, kissing and hugging of the dead bodies, the document said, adding the ashes do not pose any risk and can be collected to perform the last rites. As for the ideal depth of burial of dead body, the ICMR said as per available literature and reports, the burial is being done at a depth of six to eight feet.During autopsy or while handling the dead body, if anyone get accidental occupational exposure with body fluids/tissues of a Covid-19 patient, then immediately the entire exposed area should be washed with soap and water with minimum contact time of 20 seconds. This should be followed by application of 70 per cent alcohol based disinfectant. The exposed clothes/ articles should be disposed off according to the established practices. The matter should be reported to the hospital administration to evaluate the necessary steps accordingly, the ICMR added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nasal-samples-from-dead-bodies-be-collected-for-covid-19-test-before-sending-to-mortuary-icmr/story-qvPy3WHlgUYl02WjExCRBK.html
21-05-2020||India||Online booking on IRCTC for 200 trains to begin at 10 am today||The Railways will today commence bookings for the second lot of trains announced on Wednesday. The booking will start at 10 am.Only online e-ticketing will be done through IRCTC website or through Mobile App, and no tickets will be booked across the reservation counter on any railway station, the Railways said.The ARP (advance reservation period) shall be maximum 30 days and RAC and wait list will be generated as per extant rules, it said. Those with waiting list tickets will not be permitted to board the train, the Railways added.No unreserved (UTS) tickets will be issued and no tickets will be issued on board to any passenger during the journey, it said, adding no tatkal (instant) and premium tatkal booking shall be permitted.The Railways had on Wednesday issued a list of 100 pairs of trains that it will operate from June 1, putting in operation popular trains such as Durontos, Sampark Krantis, Jan Shatabdis and Poorva Express.It said that these will have both air conditioned (AC) and non-air conditioned classes and fully reserved coaches.Also Read: List of trains that will start operation from June 1These special trains will run on the pattern of regular trains, covering tier 2 cities and also major state capitals like Mumbai and Kolkata, the Railways said.Fare shall be as normal, it said. But second seating(2S) fare shall be charged for General (GS) coaches being reserved. Seats will be provided to all passengers, it added.Just like the 15 pairs of special trains being run on the Rajdhani routes, on these trains too face cover/mask and Aarogya Setu app will be compulsory and passengers have to reach the station 90 minutes before the scheduled departure of train.Only asymptomatic passengers would be allowed to travel and those found symptomatic will get full refund, railways said.All quotas in these trains have been restored and concessions will be given to only four categories of Divyangjan and 11 categories of patients.Passengers have also been asked to carry their own linen and only packed food items will be available in the panty cars on payment basis, the Railways said.These special services shall be in addition to the existing Shramik special trains being run since May 1 and Special AC trains being run since May 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/online-booking-for-200-trains-to-begin-at-10-am-today/story-67V6QHKVV7sR7go6hvjG4L.html
21-05-2020||India||‘More worrying than Covid-19’: Chaos as Cyclone Amphan strikes Bengal, Odisha||Cyclone Amphan roared into West Bengal around 20 kilometre east of Sagar Island in the Sunderbans on Wednesday, packing winds gusting to a top speed of 185 kmph, triggering torrential rain and leaving a trail of devastation across a wide swath of the state, from deltaic regions to the urban neighbourhoods of Kolkata.It brought a storm surge - a wall of ocean water that is often one of the main killers in major weather systems - that roared inland. Watch| Vikram Chandra on Cyclone Amphan landfall, resumption of domestic flights“The situation is more worrying than the coronavirus pandemic. We don’t know how to handle it,” West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee told reporters late on Wednesday. “Almost everything is destroyed in the coastal villages of the state.”Banerjee, who was assessing the situation from the state secretariat, said at least 10-12 people have died.“The losses will be at three levels - loss to life and property because the storm was tremendous; loss to basic infrastructure, which will take months to leap back to normalcy, and thirdly, loss to livelihoods due to saline water intrusion and large-scale inundation. I have received reports of embankment breaks from Sagar Island, Ramganga, Hingalganj and a few other places. Many embankments are seeing overtopping of water because the rivers have swelled up, these will break in days,” said Tuhin Ghosh, director of the School of Oceanographic Studies at Jadavpur University.Amphan, the most severe storm in the Bay of Bengal since the Odisha super cyclone of 1999, made landfall between 3.30 pm and 5.30 pm.In neighbouring Odisha, at least two deaths were reported till Wednesday night. A two-month-old baby was killed in a wall collapse in the morning after heavy overnight rains in Bhadrak district. In another incident, a woman died in Balasore after an electric pole, uprooted by the storm, fell on her.In Bangladesh, officials confirmed six deaths including a five-year-old boy and a 75-year-old man, both hit by falling trees, and a cyclone emergency volunteer who drowned.Some three million people were left without power, Bangladesh officials said.About 224.6 millimetres (0.7 feet) of rain fell from early Wednesday and winds up to 113 kmph (70 mph) lashed Kolkata, the capital of West Bengal.Video shared on social media showed electricity transformers sparking and exploding in the wild weather. Some reports said that 5,500 houses were damaged in one West Bengal district.The cyclone is expected to weaken as it moves north and northeast, and recede to a tropical depression by Thursday afternoon, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said.In southwestern Bangladesh, a five-feet-high storm surge broke an embankment and swamped farmland.Bangladesh officials were particularly concerned about the damage to the Sunderbans, a UNESCO world heritage site famed for its mangrove forest and tiger population, which they said bore the brunt of the cyclone.Houses “look like they have been run over by a bulldozer”, said Babul Mondal, 35, a villager on the edge of the Indian side of the Sunderbans.The 1999 super cyclone left nearly 10,000 dead in Odisha, eight years after a typhoon, tornadoes and flooding killed 139,000 in Bangladesh.In 1970, half a million perished due to Cyclone Bhola.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-cyclone-amphan-made-landfall-and-left-a-trail-of-destruction-in-bengal-odisha/story-YmZLdCVgbTvLaMn7rbctML.html
21-05-2020||India||Delhiwale | A priest in the pandemic||The Hanuman Mandir in Connaught Place is closed. So is the St James Church in Kashmere Gate. Ditto with Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya’s Sufi shrine in Nizamuddin basti. Who could have imagined this would happen?Sounding astonished on phone, temple priest Santosh Bhardwaj insists that this is a most extraordinary time. “I had never thought that a day would come when houses of gods would shut their doors to devotees.”Indeed, the world has turned upside down. The coronavirus pandemic has upset everybody’s routines. But the virus hasn’t dented the daily schedule of Mr Bhardwaj, the in-house priest at Radha Krishna Temple in Ghata village in Gurugram’s Sector 55, very close to the swish Golf Course Road.“I live in the mandir, my life is simple, and has so far remained unaffected,” says the priest this evening on WhatsApp. The photos are taken through the screen that connects him to this reporter.In his 40s, Mr Bhardwaj has been living in the temple for many years. His wife and three children live in their native town of Rewari. “They know I’m alone and they worry about me. They call me often,” he says in the contended tone of a man who is certain of the affection of his family.Wearing an orange scarf around his head, the cheery-natured priest with a beatific smile clarifies that the temple has been closed to visitors since the lockdown began. “Earlier, villagers would come to me all the time to ask me to help them with their personal problems, but now they call me on WhatsApp.” He says that most of his yajman (followers) in the village are former farmers, who now thrive by renting out their lands for residential use to migrants who decided to settle here.Despite the absence of regular devotees inside the temple, Mr Bhardwaj still wakes up at 4am sharp. After undertaking his snan (bath), he begins the thorough cleaning of the temple floor. Back in the BC (Before Corona) era, the task was performed by a woman “but she went back to her village in MP with her sons, who were working as labourers in Delhi,” says Mr Bhardwaj. The priest reveals that the aforementioned lady and her family covered most of the way to their village by walking on the highway, like many other migrants returning home. “She called me on mobile after reaching home... she is fine.”These days Mr Bhardwaj gets help in the cleaning from Yash, a young man from Punjab living nearby, who used to work in a salon until the lockdown began.Later, the priest performs the ritual of jyoti batti, in which he lights up 14 diyas. The next few hours are exhausted in a series of devotional engagements including aarti, jaap, kirtan, satsang, and the reading of Bhagwad Puran.One of Mr Bhardwaj’s most cherished activities in the morning is to clean the idol of Laddu Gopalji, a name used affectionately for infant lord Krishna. “I give Laddu Gopalji a shower, put new clothes on him, mark his forehead with sandalwood paste, comb his hair and finally tuck in the peacock feather on his head.”Only after executing his morning duties does the priest help himself to chai. But currently he is observing a month-long fast “to pray that our country and the world get out of this mahamari (pandemic).” Consequently, Mr Bhardwaj consumes only one simple meal daily, around 3pm, consisting of meethi (sweet) roti and meethi lassi.The daily life in the temple winds down with the evening aarti at 7pm. The curtains are drawn to all the shrines by 9. Only then the priest settles down on a string cot by the temple entrance, and indulges himself in looking at the world outside through the grills of the barred gate. He goes to sleep by 11pm and is again up at 4am.“This is how my life in the mandir goes on, come what may,” says Mr Bhardwaj modestly as he conducts a WhatsApp tour of the temple, starting from the sanctum sanctorum to the yard outside. There, he turns his phone screen towards the temple’s tall shikhar (spire), rising defiantly high into the sky—as if setting a straight connection with the higher powers above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-a-priest-in-the-pandemic/story-T6x95kXNtjLppdk4EomKAN.html
21-05-2020||India||Chhattisgarh to launch cash transfer scheme for farmers today||The Chhattisgarh government will on Thursday launch a scheme named after Rajiv Gandhi on the late former Prime Minister’s 19th death anniversary for direct cash transfers to around 2 million farmers in four instalments, officials aware of the matter said. The officials said a five-member committee was constituted to study how Rs 2,500 per quintal for paddy could be ensured for the farmers as per the Congress pledge in its manifesto ahead of the 2018 assembly elections. The panel was constituted after the government procured paddy from farmers at the rate fixed by the Centre--~1,835 per quintal--in November 2019 and promised to pay the balance amount later.“The committee recommended that ~10,000 per acre should be given to farmers, who sold the paddy at the Centre’s rate and added the benefit should also be provided for maize and sugarcane crops,” said an official in chief minister Bhupesh Baghel’s office on condition of anonymity.The beneficiaries of the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojna, which was approved by the Chhattisgarh cabinet on May 14, will be chosen on the basis of registered land under cultivation during the kharif crop season 2019. ~10,000 per acre will be deposited in the bank accounts of each beneficiary as agriculture assistance grant for cultivation.Baghel said Congress leadership has been advocating direct transfer. “We have decided to put money in the farmers’ pockets again. I am confident that this will help in the revival of economy post-Covid-19 pandemic.” Congress leaders like Rahul Gandhi have repeatedly asked the government to provide direct cash assistance instead of loans to tide over the Covid-19 crisis while criticising the Centre’s Rs 20 lakh crore package that includes cheaper loans. Gandhi on Saturday said the government should not be a “sahukar [money lender]” while arguing in favour of the cash assistance.Activist Alok Shukla said, “If the government is claiming it as Nyay Yojna, why have not the state’s all 3 million paddy farmers been covered under the scheme?”The opposition Bharatiya Janata Party dismissed the scheme as “Anyay Yojna”. “The money is being given to the farmers in four instalments which will be of no use,” BJP spokesman Sacchinand Upasane said. He added the government had promised to give the remaining amount of the price it had pledged to procure paddy at in one instalment||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-to-launch-cash-transfer-scheme-for-farmers-today/story-TrS0ksKBNeX088mCiDlFRO.html
21-05-2020||India||Govt to make use of community radio for Covid outreach||The information and broadcasting ministry is looking to utilise the reach of nearly 300 community radio stations as it aims to take the government’s message on preventing the spread of Covid-19 to the remotest parts of the country.As part of this outreach, Information and Broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar will address listeners from all the community radio stations simultaneously on Friday evening.Javadekar will speak in Hindi and English and will touch on all issues related to Covid 19. He will also answer some of the queries posed by the audience.Significantly, Javadekar is also leading a panel of ministers assigned with the task of fine-tuning the communication strategy. Union ministers Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, Hardeep Singh Puri, Kiren Rijiju and minister of state for environment Babul Supriyo are among others who will work be spearheading the efforts to spread more awareness about the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-make-use-of-community-radio-for-covid-outreach/story-1gIuuDnEOjsX1C7LW89vgN.html
21-05-2020||India||3 dead as Cyclone Amphan crosses Odisha before making landfall in Bengal||Three deaths were reported including that of a 2-month-old girl in Odisha as extremely severe cyclonic storm Amphan, the strongest storm since the 1999 Super Cyclone, barrelled along the Odisha coast this morning before making landfall near Sunderbans in West Bengal late on Wednesday afternoon.In Odisha, the maximum wind speed of 120 km per hour due to Cyclone Amphan was clocked in Dhamra coast in Bhadrak district while in Paradip it was around 100 km per hour. The cyclone uprooted trees and bent electric poles in coastal Odisha districts of Kendrapara, Jagatsinghpur, Bhadrak and Balasore. Nearly 34 lakh power consumers in the state were affected as 65 units of 33 KV feeders were affected due to the cyclone. However, more than 90 per cent of telecom infrastructure was not affected, Special Relief Commissioner Pradip Jena said.In Bhadrak district, a two-month-old infant died after the wall of his family’s kutcha house collapsed early on Wednesday morning. The newborn son of farmer Balaram Das in Kannada village of Bhadrak’s Tihidi block was sleeping when the wall of the house gave in due to overnight rain. In Kendrapara district, a woman who had gone out fishing this morning was drowned to death.A woman of Bhogarai block in Balasore district died after an electric pole fell on her. The woman had stepped outside for some work when the pole uprooted due to the winds.“We have received reports of a child’s death at Tihidi in the Bhadrak district. The District Collector has sent a team, comprising the tehsildar, medical and police officials. The exact cause will be ascertained after autopsy,” Jena said. Officials, however, did not clarify why the family of the deceased newborn could not be shifted to a cyclone shelter.Jena said after the cyclone passed by Odisha, road clearance started in Kendrapada, Jagatsinghpur, Bhadrak districts by NDRF, ODRAF, Fire Service and workers of Odisha Forest Development Corporation. Early in the morning, the port town of Paradip faced Cyclone Amphan’s fury as winds of over 100 kmph uprooted scores of trees, electric poles, blew away asbestos and tin roofs of several houses accompanied by over 200 mm of rain. At Paradip port, over 100 truck drivers have taken shelter inside their vehicles, waiting for the storm to blow over.Officials had evacuated over 1.5 lakh people from the coastal and adjoining districts into cyclone shelters till Tuesday evening. Around 1,585 pregnant women were also brought to safety by authorities in the coastal districts.In a village of Kendrapara district, a woman delivered her baby in a fire service vehicle while being taken to a government hospital. The woman and her newborn girl were later admitted to the hospital and were said to be out of danger. Janaki Sethi (20), wife of Hatim Sethi (25) of Janhara village under Mahakalapada police station area of Kendrapara district went into labour this morning. Her family tried to contact the ambulance but the service could not be made available to them due to adverse weather conditions and due to roads being blocked by fallen trees.Later, two fire service teams equipped with tree cutting machinery cleared the road blockade and carried Sethi in the fire tender to hospital. However, she delivered a baby girl midway in the vehicle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-dead-as-cyclone-amphan-crosses-odisha-before-making-landfall-in-bengal/story-DvIAOCX2kG6L4IJtjzaurO.html
21-05-2020||India||Delhi registers 534 new Covid-19 cases; highest single-day spike takes tally to 11,088||Delhi on Wednesday recorded 534 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day spike till date taking the national capital’s tally past the 11,000-mark to 11,088, Delhi’s Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) data said.The coronavirus death toll in Delhi has climbed to 176. Of the total number of deceased patients, 92 were over 60 years and above, accounting for over 52 per cent of the fatalities.Over 26 per cent of the total deaths in the national capital were of people in the age group of 50-59 years, according to health department data.As of Wednesday, Delhi has 5,720 active coronavirus cases while 5,192 patients have recovered and been discharged from several city hospitals.In the last 24 hours, at least 442 coronavirus positive patients have recovered and been discharged.On Tuesday, the total number of coronavirus cases stood at 10,554, including 166 deaths. With 534 fresh cases, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi has climbed to a staggering 11,088.In the national capital, the previous highest spike in fresh cases -- 500 -- was recorded on May 19.The health department data also indicated that cumulative death figures refers to fatalities where the primary cause of death was found to be Covid-19, as per the report of the Death Audit Committee on the basis of case sheets received from various hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-registers-534-new-covid-19-cases-highest-single-day-spike-takes-tally-to-11-088/story-96NBNp1LZHqn80XAIL7jDI.html
21-05-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||This is the 60th edition of a column on Covid-19 I’ve written pretty much everyday since March 19. Perhaps because I write it, I get asked a lot of questions. I have tried to answer some of the common ones here – with data support, wherever possible, so that everyone knows exactly where India stands.Have we flattened the curve in terms of number of cases?No. India saw 5,314 new infections on Tuesday, which marked the end of eight weeks since the lockdown was imposed. The daily numbers have continued to rise. The daily average in Week 1 of the lockdown was 153; in the seven seeks since it has risen, to 531, 876, 1228, 1611, 2560, 3541, and 4494 (the last in Week 8 ended Tuesday). The chart here maps daily cases since March 25 till May 19, and also weekly averages.Have we flattened the curve in terms of number of deaths?No. India saw 5,314 new infections on Tuesday, which marked the end of eight weeks since the lockdown was imposed. The daily numbers have continued to rise. The daily average in Week 1 of the lockdown was 153; in the seven seeks since it has risen, to 531, 876, 1228, 1611, 2560, 3541, and 4494 (the last in Week 8 ended Tuesday). The chart here maps daily cases since March 25 till May 19, and also weekly averagesIs there no good news at all?No; there is good news. The number of people who recover from the coronavirus disease on a daily basis grew steadily – in terms of both weekly averages over the eight weeks and the cumulative number. The recovery rate (number of those recovered expressed as a proportion of the total number of cases) too rose steadily over the eight weeks. The chart here maps all three metrics.What about the death rate?That too has inched down in recent weeks (although this needs caveating).Death rates can be calculated in different ways. This column has taken the so-called Case Fatality Rate (CFR), which is the number of deaths expressed as the number of cases. Some experts suggest that a better way to calculate this would be to take the number of cases two weeks back. Indeed, with 53.25% of the cases seen in India being recorded in the past two weeks, this seems logical. But we have stuck to the traditional way of calculating death rates. The chart here maps the death rate on a daily basis since March 25.What’s driving the growth of the pandemic in India?Right now, the states of Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, and Gujarat. Indeed this has been the case since March 25. The charts below show the contribution of these four states to the total number of cases in India over these eight weeks; and the growth of infections in these four states and the rest of India over the same time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-JwfMiWXWUYeKCspJsesyTO.html
21-05-2020||India||Radio operators seek ₹300 crore package||Having received little support from the Centre’s measures to revive the economy reeling under COVID-19 effect, private FM radio operators have appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to approve an economic survival package to keep the severely hit sector afloat.In a letter to the prime minister, signed by AROI president, Anuradha Prasad, the body said: “... we are deeply pained to note that none of these measures [announced by the FM] has any effect, whatsoever, on the private FM radio sector,” said the letter AROI said that the only measure that could provide some relief is the extra credit facility for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) and that, too, would benefit only a few radio operators.“Only 31 out of 371 stations are MSMEs, while 340 do not fall into the MSME segment. However, even the 31 out of 371 stations that fall in MSME, cannot avail the benefit, as being heavily dependent on government advertising which has dried up over last one year, they will have no revenue forecasts for repayment to avail the facility,” said the radio operators in the letter.They requested the government to consider an economic survival package for FM Radio.“As FM Radio will pay, over next 12 years or so, about Rs 15,000 crore to the government through migration, license fees, rentals, GST etc, a survival package of Rs 300 crore to keep this media sector alive, is of interest to the nation,” said AROI president, Anuradha Prasad, in the letter.The letter from the radio operators comes at a time when the different segments of the media industry, including the print media and the entertainment industry, have been reeling under losses.The Indian Newspaper Society (INS) had also raised the issue pertaining to the losses suffered by the print industry with the government.The print media industry has suffered losses to the tune of Rs 4500 crore during the months of March and April, the Indian Newspaper Society (INS) had earlier said and sought a stimulus package.A senior government official, when contacted, said the ministry had received a number of requests and representation and they were being looked into.Former Prasar Bharati member V A M Hussain said that even as the people continued to consume news and entertainment there was a definite case as to the effect the present situation would have on their revenues. In case of radio, the restrictions on the movement of vehicles would also deprive them of a number of regular listeners, who would otherwise turn on radio sets while driving.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/radio-operators-seek-300-crore-package/story-FW9LT2kj9zL6z2tEX4FKOM.html
21-05-2020||India||List of 200 new trains released, AC included||The ministry of railways issued guidelines Wednesday for resuming 100 pairs of regular passenger trains from June 1 with both AC and non-AC coaches, revising its earlier order allowing only non-ac trains. The bookings for these trains will begin from 21 may, 10 am onward. The national carrier has also permitted Advance Reservation Period of maximum 30 days. At present advance booking for regular Rajdhani trains is only allowed up to a week. Regular passenger trains including Jan Shtabadi, Sampark Kranti Express and Duronto Express have been restored. Railways on Tuesday announced it will run 200 special passenger trains a day from June 1 and online ticket booking will begin soon. These trains will be fully reserved trains having both AC & Non AC coaches. General (GS) coaches shall also have reserved seat for sitting. There will be no unreserved coach in the train, the ministry said. “The fare shall be as normal and for General (GS) coaches, being reserved, second seating(2S) fare shall be charged and seat will be provided to all the passengers, the ministry said. Only online e-ticketing will be allowed through the IRCTC website or mobile app. Booking of tickets through ‘agents’, (both IRCTC agents and railway agents) will not be permitted.The 200 trains announced on Tuesday will run in addition to the premium passenger trains connecting New Delhi with 15 cities across India, and the ones ferrying stranded migrant labourers to their hometowns.RAC and wait list will be generated as per extant rules however waiting list ticket holders shall not be permitted to board the train, the ministry clarified adding that no unreserved (UTS) tickets, tatkal and premium tatkal booking will be allowed. All passengers must download and use the Aarogya Setu application, the ministry said. Passengers will also have to face masks at the entry and during travel, reach the station at-least 90 minutes in advance to facilitate thermal screening at the station and observe social distancing norms. Railways has also allowed all existing quotas to be permitted in these special trains. Limited number of reservation (PRS) counters shall be operated for this purpose. However, normal ticket booking cannot be done through these counters. Concession will be allowed for four categories of ‘Divyangjan’ concession and 11 categories of patient concessions are permitted in these special trains.All stalls at station including food plaza will also be opened but will only be allowed to serve take away food.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/list-of-200-new-trains-released-ac-included/story-onda4cfgEL3pZnRUZdlKUJ.html
21-05-2020||India||Nod to allocation of free food grains to migrants||New Delhi: The Union cabinet, at a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Wednesday approved the distribution of free foodgrains to migrant workers, moving to ease the distress of those left stranded in transit by the lockdown imposed on March 25 in the aftermath of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.The cabinet also approved a new Special Liquidity Scheme for non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) and housing finance companies (HFCs) to improve their liquidity. It also gave its approval to an emergency credit line guarantee scheme for micro, small and medium enterprises and small entrepreneurs to borrow an additional Rs. 3 lakh crore.According to an official statement released after the cabinet meeting, around 80 million migrants would be eligible to receive 5 kg of foodgrains per month for May and June free of cost It would entail an estimated food subsidy of about Rs 2,982.27 crore. Expenditure on transport and handling charges and dealer margins will account for about 127.25 crore more.The cabinet approved a finance ministry proposal to launch a new liquidity scheme for NBFCs and HFCs.The direct financial implication for the Government is Rs. 5 crore, which may be the equity contribution to a special purpose vehicle (SPV). Beyond that, there is no financial implication for the government until an underlying guarantee s invoked.An SPV would be set up to manage a stressed asset fund (SAF) whose special securities would be guaranteed by the government and purchased by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The proceeds of the sale of such securities would be used by the SPV to acquire short-term debt of NBFCs/HFCs. The scheme will be administered by the department of financial services, which will issue the detailed guidelines, the statement said.The cabinet also gave its nod to additional funding of up to Rs. 3 lakh crore to eligible MSMEs and small entrepreneurs. Under the scheme, the National Credit Guarantee Trustee Company Limited will offer a 100% guarantee for the loan amount. A corpus of Rs. 41,600 crore shall be provided by government, spread over the current and the next three financial years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nod-to-allocation-of-free-food-grains-to-migrants/story-Y2zRm8IjEKVzPzp5wh9FjM.html
21-05-2020||India||3k tested for Covid under Ayushman Bharat: NHA||In the month-and-a-half since treatment of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) was made free under Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojna (AB-PMJAY), at least 2,000 people have either been treated or are being treated for the viral disease under the world’s largest public health insurance scheme.The number of people who have availed of AB-PMJAY since its launch in September 2018 has, meanwhile, reached 10 million. At least 3,000 people have also been tested cashless for Covid-19 under the scheme.The National Health Authority (NHA), which is the implementing authority of the scheme, has empanelled about 1,500 more hospitals under AB-PMJAY in the past one month to treat Covid-19 patients, the NHA said on Wednesday.“We want to be prepared in case there is a surge in cases. As of now, public sector is taking care of much of the load but if there’s an unusual increase then we would need private sector hospitals also to chip in. We are currently on a drive to add more hospitals to the list. We have created separate Covid treatment packages also as treating these patients requires isolation, PPE [personal protection equipment] kits, extra manpower etc,” said Indu Bhushan, chief executive officer, NHA. The authority is in the process of adding private laboratories for Covid-19 testing that have been approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research. The rate packages are being used from the already existing category-related to respiratory illnesses, severe acute respiratory infection and influenza-like illness with aggravated symptoms. Responding to the outbreak of Covid-19, the Union ministry of health and family welfare has made the testing and treatment for Covid-19 free of cost under AB-PMJAY scheme for all its 53 crore [530 million] beneficiaries… 2,132 people have availed or are currently undergoing treatment for Covid-19 under AB PM-JAY in the country,” NHA said in a statement. NHA teams are also reaching out to its elderly -- those above 60 years of age -- and other high-risk category beneficiaries (who recently received treatment) to check if any of them has Covid symptoms and needs testing through its call entre, which is staffed by about 700 dedicated operators. Close to 30 million such calls have already been made.“Our aim was to call up all of beneficiaries who are above 60 years, recently received treatment and those who have co-morbidities because these are the people at high risk. Our call centre is running 24x7,” said Bhsuhan.The call centre is also being used to get in touch with people identified at potential risk of contracting the infection by the Arogya Setu mobile application, to caution them so that they strictly follow preventive measures. Close to 600,000 people have been contacted and 15,000 tele-consultations facilitated with doctors in the past couple of months.NHA has empanelled 21,565 hospitals under the scheme, of which 1,385 hospitals have been empanelled across the country since April 1. Of the total new hospitals, nearly 58% per cent are private hospitals.The authority is also launching a hospital-ranking dashboard to rank empanelled hospitals on the basis of beneficiaries’ feedback. “The ranking will help NHA to take evidence-based decision-making for enhancing the quality measures and indicators of healthcare delivery across all empanelled facilities to further improve the beneficiaries’ experience,” it said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3k-tested-under-ayushman-bharat-nha/story-0Q5diLoGlDUqdtt7SfP9jN.html
21-05-2020||India||Centre gives nod to Class 10, 12 board exams with social distancing norms||: The Union home ministry on Wednesday gave the go-ahead for conducting pending board exams with preventive measures like social distancing in place while granting them exemption from the ambit of the nationwide lockdown imposed to check the Covid-19 pandemic in late March. The move came two days after the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) released its revised timetable for examinations of pending papers of Class 10 and 12 between July 1 and 15.The ministry is the nodal agency for disaster management in the country. It is responsible for giving permissions for any activity when the Disaster Management Act, under which the lockdown has been imposed, is in force. Union home minister Amit Shah made the announcement about the permission on Twitter. “Taking into consideration the academic interest of large number of students, it has been decided to grant exemption from the lockdown measures to conduct Board examination for classes 10th & 12th, with few conditions like social distancing, face mask etc, for their safety,” he tweeted.Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla separately wrote a letter to all states and Union territories informing them about the conditional exemption citing requests for conducting the examinations. “Taking into consideration the academic interest of large number of students, it has been decided to grant exemption from lockdown measures to conduct Board Examinations for Class 10th and 12th,” the letter said. It added the exemption for exams will be subject to the condition that students, as well as the staff and teachers conducting them, will mandatorily wear face masks and follow social distancing. The letter said that everyone involved will be subject to thermal screening and will use sanitisers. The examinations will be conducted in a staggered manner and that local governments will arrange for transportation of students to the exam centres, it added. The pandemic forced the closure of schools in March and resulted in the suspension of board exams across the country.CBSE will conduct the exams for 12 subjects of Class 12 across the country. The examinations for six subjects of Class 10 will be held in north-east Delhi, where they were postponed because of the communal violence in February. The board had announced a revised schedule in March but the papers could not be conducted due to the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-gives-nod-to-class-10-12-board-exams-with-social-distancing-norms/story-vx09fGrYZoY3V2qK1LB62M.html
21-05-2020||India||Lockdown 4.0: Is it open? Confusion prevails in states over easing of restrictions||Can you go to office? Can you drive your car across to the next state, or the next city? Can you take public transport? Can you even get a haircut? On March 25, the day India imposed the lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease, the answer to all these questions was a resounding no. There was one rule, and all citizens had to abide by the restrictions. Today, even as lockdown 4.0 has got officially extended to May 31, the answer to the questions is — depends; depends on where you are and which state jurisdiction has adopted what rules. So if you are in Delhi, you can’t get a hair cut and will have to live with that long beard or unkempt look for some more time, but if you are in Thiruvananthapuram, you can walk into a salon. If you are in Gururgram or Noida, you can drive down to Delhi — but if you are in Delhi, you may not be able drive back to Gurugram or Noida. If you are in Bengaluru, you can work in office at full capacity. But if you have an office in Mumbai, your office can only have one-third of the staff. If you are in Kolkata and need to take a quick auto ride with your spouse, both of you can hop in to one auto rickshaw. But if you are in Delhi, both of you will have to take two separate autos. This, often bewildering, set of rules symbolises lockdown 4.0. Advocates say it is a better reflection of local realities, with states now having the power to decide zones and extent of activity in each area; others believe that this creates confusion for individuals, companies, and even local government authorities. Take companies. A company’s office in Delhi or Bengaluru may have started functioning from Tuesday but its office in the business capital of India, Mumbai, has remained closed, due to the lockdown. Maharashtra government has decided to enforce lockdown 3.0 regulations in Mumbai, in which only 33% of workers are allowed in non-containment areas. Eighteen of the 27 municipal corporations in the state, including all in and around Mumbai, are in the red zone, thereby restricting movement of people.“It (restrictions in Mumbai) has created some functional problems for us, as our head office is in Mumbai,” said a Bengaluru-based systems analyst, Srinivasa Murthy, working with a multinational information technology company. Most companies had to introduce city-specific working protocols as lockdown norms are not same in all cities. “It has added to our work but we have to deal with it,” commented an HR manager in a second Bengaluru-based IT company, who was not willing to be quoted as she was not authorised to speak to media. Or take public transport. After 56 days, public transport — buses, cabs and auto rickshaws — returned to many cities, with different city norms. In Kolkata, only 20 passengers per bus are allowed. In Bengaluru, buses can run up to half of its capacity. Autos in Bengal can carry two passengers and in Delhi only one. But the ease in restrictions has often not translated into passengers, for there appears to be caution.Or take inter-state travel.While Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana governments have allowed inter-state travel, the administrations in Noida and Gurugram have prohibited it. In Maharashtra, even inter-district travel is difficult. One cannot enter Mumbai from the neighbouring areas of Navi Mumbai and Thane. Given the dense interlinkages that exist between these urban centres, life for many has come to a standstill even if one has to hop across to an adjacent area for work, medical purposes, or family visits. There is an even bigger issue with long-distance travel, with citizens at a loss in the absence of clarity. KC Jain, a cancer survivor, living in Vishal Khand area of Lucknow, wanted to drive down to Jodhpur to bring his wife back. He applied for an e-pass, which was rejected. He does not know whom to approach and whether he will be allowed to travel without a pass in lockdown 4.0. “My wife is stuck in Rajasthan for nearly two months and I want to get her back,” he said.Or take those whose importance in keeping up appearances has firmly got established in this era of lockdown and social distancing — barbers and salons.Kerala and Punjab have allowed barber shops. Delhi and Mumbai have not. Uttarakhand and Rajasthan have come up with strict conditions — only one person is to be allowed inside a barber shop at a time and there must be proper provision of masks, sanitisers and thermal scanners. Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh will allow salons and barber shops from Thursday. Where salons are open, hair cuts are allowed — but not facial services. And the experience of a hair cut itself has changed, for both the customer and the barber. Joseph Mathew walked into a salon in Thiruvananthapuram carrying his own towel, for a haircut, his first during the lockdown, and was surprised to find his barber was covered from head to toe in a protective gear. “I never imagined such a scene,” he said, as two customers got their hair done in distant corners. In normal days, he would have entered the packed air-conditioned saloon and waited for his turn on a sofa watching local Malayalam entertainment channels.Abhay Girdhar, owner of a Ludhiana based salon, said they are not providing services related to “skin and body” to avoid direct contact with the customers. “The customers are also not allowed to enter without masks and shoe covers. Also no one is allowed to accompany the person who gets the appointment,” he said, laying out his own sub set of rules to a state wide rule within a broad national framework. And that is why, in this new phase of lockdown 4.0, if you want to get a hair cut, if you want to visit a friend, if you want to go to work, if you want to drive across a few states to meet your parents, check the rules first. Your location will determine your freedom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/state-wise-variations-in-new-rules-leave-citizens-puzzled/story-j3GZOsbkPNGmZuwy1opl7K.html
21-05-2020||India||Domestic flight services to resume from May 25||India will resume domestic flights beginning May 25, the government said on Wednesday, announcing a gradual reboot of air travel that was halted two months ago on account of a lockdown imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“All airports and air carriers are being informed to be ready for operations from 25th May. Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for passenger movement are also being separately issued by civil aviation ministry,” civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri tweeted. The guidelines for air travel are expected on Thursday.The government’s plan for the resumption of services may feature recommending a price band for different routes keeping in mind “the interest of both the consumer and the airline”, a civil aviation ministry official who did not want to be named said.Inside planes, middle seats might not be left vacant though such a proposal was initially on the table, according to the official, who also said measures will be taken to maintain social distancing at airports. On completion of travel, passengers will have to abide by the guidelines laid down by the destination state.In the first phase, the flights are likely to cater to all major Tier-I cities.A draft SOP by the civil aviation ministry earlier this month suggested that cabin luggage will be barred and those above 80 might not be allowed on board for now. It also said passengers’ identity checks will not be required so as to minimise the crowd at terminal gates. But the government was quick to clarify that these were just draft proposals, and that a final call was yet to be taken.Last week, the Airports Authority of India (AAI), which manages 100-odd airports in India, released its own guidelines for passengers, citing the “possibility of domestic flights”. AAI asked travellers to maintain a distance of four feet, wear a mask and other protective gear, wash or sanitise their hands frequently, and carry a 350 ml bottle of sanitiser all the time. Downloading the contact-tracing Aarogya Setu app in mobile phones will be mandatory, and passengers will have to do a web check-in before the journey and a carry a printout of the boarding pass, according to the AAI guidelines.Domestic flight services have been put on hold since March 25, when the nationwide lockdown was first imposed, and international flights have not arrived in India since March 22. Cargo flights and those evacuating foreign nationals have been operating though.Opening the skies for domestic flight services is seen as yet another step by the government in the direction of a graded exit from the lockdown, which has been extended till the end of this month. The curbs have taken a toll on the Indian economy, stalling activities across sectors, including the aviation industry.“We have been prepared for resuming domestic flights for a while and made all necessary arrangements, but states expressed some reservations on resuming the operations in a meeting held a day before the home ministry guidelines were issued,” a second civil aviation ministry official said, referring to the Centre’s May 17 order on the lockdown that listed air travel as a banned activity across the country. Shortly after the announcement on the resumption of flights, the home ministry amended its order, removing domestic air services from the list. A meeting with the chief executive officers (CEOs) of airlines is scheduled to be held on Thursday and the SOP on air travel could be made public after that, according to the second official. The Centre will also issue guidelines for the movement of passengers for reaching airports. On Tuesday, civil aviation minister Puri said state governments should be ready to allow civil aviation operations “in the spirit of cooperative federalism”. “It is not up to the civil aviation ministry or the Centre alone to decide on resuming domestic flights,” he said. Airlines welcomed the government’s move to resume air services.“While the SOP for the resumption of operations and details of flights to be operated is still awaited, we are sure that this much-awaited move will help a large number of passengers by providing them access to the safest and quickest means of transport… We will strictly adhere to social distancing norms and SOPs laid down by the government to ensure the best, the cleanest and the most sanitised flying experience,” said Ajay Singh, chairman and managing director, SpiceJet. IndiGo said it is fully prepared for the resumption of flights in a phased manner. “We will share further details and guidelines for passengers, in line with the advisory from the authorities over the next few days,” the private airline said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-flight-services-to-resume-from-may-25/story-Hd8VxgozNWpFqQB4LjnNgO.html
21-05-2020||India||Destruction in Odisha, West Bengal as cyclone Amphan strikes||Cyclone Amphan roared into West Bengal around 20km east of Sagar Island in the Sunderbans on Wednesday, packing winds gusting to a top speed of 185 kmph, triggering torrential rain and leaving a trail of devastation across a wide swath of the state, from deltaic regions to the urban neighbourhoods of Kolkata.Amphan, the most severe storm in the Bay of Bengal since the Odisha super cyclone of 1999, made landfall between 3.30pm and 5.30pm, flattening houses, uprooting trees and electric pylons, causing rivers to swell and breach their embankments, and killing at least three people in two states according to initial reports. Two women died in West Bengal; both crushed by falling trees in Howrah district and in the Minakhan area of North 24 Parganas. Earlier in the day, a two-month-old baby was killed in a wall collapse on Wednesday morning after heavy overnight rains in neighbouring Odisha’s Bhadrak district. “It’s an intense and devastating storm. It is a multi-hazard scenario with heavy rain, strong winds and tidal surge all at the same time. It must have inundated large areas,” said M Mohapatra, director general of the India Meteorological Department (IMD).At least 658,000 people were evacuated in West Bengal and Odisha before the cyclone struck. The destruction may be massive, which cannot be assessed at the moment, as the storm will remain in West Bengal as a cyclone until Thursday morning. It crossed the state and Bangladesh coasts by 7pm on Wednesday and moved north-northeastwards, IMD said in a bulletin.“The losses will be at three levels — loss to life and property because the storm was tremendous; loss to basic infrastructure, which will take months to leap back to normalcy, and thirdly, loss to livelihoods due to saline water intrusion and large-scale inundation. I have received reports of embankment breaks from Sagar Island, Ramganga, Hingalganj and a few other places. Many embankments are seeing overtopping of water because the rivers have swelled up, these will break in days,” said Tuhin Ghosh, director of the School of Oceanographic Studies at Jadavpur University.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said a task force constituted to assess the damage will meet on Thursday. She advised people in shelter homes not to step out for the next 12 days, saying there has been a “huge devastation”. “Bridges and embankments in the Sunderbans have been damaged,” she said.Described by weather scientists as a very severe cyclonic storm bordering on an extremely severe cyclonic storm, Amphan packed winds with a speed of 155 to 165 kmph, gusting to 185 kmph. A storm is described as an extremely severe cyclone when wind speeds reach between 167 and 221 kmph. A super cyclone of the 1999 Odisha kind, which killed 9,000 people, packs a wind velocity of more than 222 kmph.“If you consider Amphan’s intensity during its lifetime, then it is the most intense since the 1999 super cyclone. But the 1999 cyclone made landfall as a super cyclone; this one weakened marginally during landfall,” said Mohapatra.IMD had forecast a storm surge of 4 to 5 metres above the astronomical tide that was expected to inundate low- lying areas of South and North 24 Parganas and parts of East Midnapore district during landfall. Extremely strong winds of 100 to 120 kmph lashed Kolkata, Howrah and Hooghly, according to IMD.Experts said residents of the deltaic areas of the Sunderbans could face an impact on their livelihoods for years to come because of large-scale inundation and saline water intrusion onto their lands.“Saline intrusion will make soil infertile and damage crops. The soil may not be suitable for agriculture for three to five years. After cyclone Aila (in 2009), there a layer of salt had settled on the soil,” Ghosh added.Meteorologists and climate scientists had said on Monday the intensity of Amphan was 145 knots or 270 kmph. The wind speed makes it the strongest cyclone ever in Bay of Bengal, passing the 1999 Odisha cyclone’s wind speed of 260 kmph, tweeted meteorologist Eric Holthous, based on data from the US-based Joint Typhoon Warning Centre.Roxy Mathew Koll, climate scientist at Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, said the Bay of Bengal recorded sea surface temperature of 32 to 34 degrees Celsius prior to the formation of cyclone Amphan. Record warming of the ocean surface may have led to very rapid intensification of Amphan from a category 1 to category 5 cyclone in just 18 hours.Subol Maity, a resident of Rakshas Khali in South 24 Parganas, said thousands of mud-brick houses had been razed and that his family had lost everything — “ our farms, our homes, our cattle”. “I don’t think there is anything left to survive with,” he said.Cyclone Amphan struck the country at a time it is struggling to control the spread of the coronavirus disease. Rescue workers in both Odisha and West Bengal said the fear of being infected by Covid-19 in cyclone shelters made many people refuse to be evacuated, with the authorities having to resort to force to move them to safety. In West Bengal, some evacuees said they would rather die in their own houses than risk infection in cyclone shelters. “There were some people who refused to move to cyclone shelters. We first tried to convince them. When it didn’t work we used force,” said a block development officer in South 24 Parganas.National Disaster Response Force chief SN Pradhan told a press conference in New Delhi that 20 teams of the federal force had already begun road clearing operations in Odisha while the 19 units deployed in West Bengal were shifting people to safety.Quoting figures made available by the two states, Pradhan said over 500,000 people were evacuated in West Bengal and 158,000 in Odisha, where the rains and high-velocity winds is expected to weaken by late Wednesday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/destruction-in-odisha-wb-as-amphan-strikes/story-bjWpSNfAbeU5oZo55M3EkO.html
21-05-2020||India||Hizbul man wanted for multiple murders held||A Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist allegedly involved in the killing of a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, his brother, and a Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) functionary in Jammu & Kashmir Kishtwar was arrested on Tuesday in a fresh setback to the outfit that has lost its top commanders this month.Senior police superintendent (Kishtwar) Harmeet Singh Mehta said Rustam Ali was involved in the killings of BJP leader Anil Parihar, his brother, as well as RSS’s Chandrakant Sharma and his guard. The Parihar brothers were killed in November 2018 and Sharma and his bodyguard five months later in April 2019. Mehta said Ali has been handed over to the National Investigation Agency, which took him to Jammu. The cases were handed over to the federal anti-terror agency last year.Police said Ali was a close associate of Hizbul Mujahideen commander Riyaz Naikoo, 35, who carried a bounty of Rs 12 lakh on his head and was killed in Pulwama district on May 6. Another top commander of the group, Junaid Ashraf Khan, was among two terrorists killed in an overnight gunbattle with security forces in Srinagar’s Nawakadal area on TuesdayTahir Bhat, an alleged Hizbul Mujahideen recruiter, was killed in Doda district on Monday. Bhat was allegedly assigned the task of carrying out fresh recruits while Ali was doing the same in the adjoining Kishtwar district. He is also believed to have had a role in Sharma and his guard’s murder.Security forces have now launched a manhunt for the region’s oldest surviving terrorist, Jehangir Saroori. “This militant is hiding in the upper reaches of Marwah and Dachhan belt in Kishtwar district adjoining Doda district. He is the oldest surviving terrorist in Jammu & Kashmir and carries an award of around Rs 50 lakh on his head...,” said a police officer, requesting anonymity.He added security forces have intensified operations to nab the terrorist but a difficult terrain and lack of technical intelligence has allowed him to remain at large.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hizb-man-wanted-for-multiple-murders-held/story-aPpwPMorn8W7jsof9B5cdN.html
21-05-2020||India||Govt asks Assam to probe PM-KISAN fraud charges||The Union agriculture ministry has asked the Assam government for a report and a probe into a potential fraud in PM-KISAN, the federal cash-transfer programme for farmers, which allowed non-farmers to get cash in the state as authorities halted further payments, an official said, requesting anonymity. Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal has ordered investigations under the watch of a top state bureaucrat, who will give his report in a month, the chief minister’s office said in a statement on Monday. The Centre is likely to advise a category of states with more relaxed enrolment norms to clean up beneficiary lists, the official added. “The responsibility of identification of beneficiary rests with the states,” this person said. “It is for the state to then initiate criminal proceedings and recover the money.” The possibility of ineligible people posing as farmers and enrolling in the scheme heightened after a software that manages the programme found sampling errors of land records not adding up, according to a second official familiar with the matter. Field officials in Assam are scrambling to vet beneficiaries. “We have been able to identify 9,000 ineligible beneficiaries in our district,” Prabin Saikia, an agriculture department official scrutinising records in northern Assam’s Lakhimpur, a tea-growing district, said. There has been communication between the Centre and the state on the issue, the first official said. In Guwahati, Pushpadhar Das, a farm expert, said it appeared that people who got counted in “include pensioners, non-farmers, income-tax payers” and that “names of more than one person from each family” are on the list. Under PM-KISAN, the government provides income support of Rs 6000 a year to farmers with a valid enrolment, paid in three equal cash transfers of Rs 2000 -- one every four months. It was launched on 24 February 2019, when the first instalment was paid. In the last tranche, paid in April amid the lockdown, nearly 70.7 million farmers were given Rs 16000 crore under the programme.Cash support under PM-KISAN is given to “a farmer family comprising husband, wife and minor children who own cultivable land as per land records,” according to the programme’s manual.In all states, barring the Northeast and Jharkhand, farmers need to offer four sets of documents to be eligible for cash: updated land records, the 12-digit biometric Aadhaar, phone number with know-your-customer-proof and bank details. These are then converted into data and “triangulated” (or cross-linked and verified) through a software, known as the public financial management system (PMFS), that enables automatic transfer of cash into bank accounts. The PMFS, the backbone of direct benefit transfers, is designed to reject any claim if the “triangulation” doesn’t match. Not all of the above-cited documents however are mandatory for northeastern states, where Aadhaar penetration is below 6%, according to the Union government’s Report on Doubling Farmers’ Income. “In some of the northeastern states, land ownership rights are community based and it might not be possible to assess the quantum of land-holder farmers,” the second federal official said. This could have allowed the breach, he said. “Human errors have occurred where data-entry operators failed to match names of beneficiaries and their villages correctly, but most others were intentional inclusion of names of ineligible persons,” Das said in Guwahati.Scamsters gained advantage of a hurried roll-out of the scheme in 2019 and relaxed norms, Das added. “Unintentional errors as well as falsification of records took place. Some say there was a competition among officials on who could enter more names.”The Assam government had already ordered re-verification of beneficiaries before a probe was announced. The deadline for it is mid-June.“These things are bound to be caught eventually because as and when records are updated, the software is designed to do its job of spotting fraud and rejecting claims. The largest rejections have happened in Uttar Pradesh,” said KS Mani of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. Mani cautioned that northeast could see problems in future too because the PFMS is an Aadhaar-based platform and disbursal for northeast and Jharkhand is made through the PFMS without the authenticity-ascertaining process of triangulation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-asks-assam-to-probe-pm-kisan-fraud-charges/story-TfONI4yZT3kgmQ78ZuCZiL.html
21-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan: Rescue operations hampered because of Covid fears||Rescuers had a tough time convincing many people to move to shelters in Odisha and West Bengal before Cyclone Amphan tore into eastern India and Bangladesh on Wednesday because of fears of contracting Covid-19. Authorities in West Bengal said they were even forced to resort to force in some cases to evacuate people as some of them insisted they would rather die in their own houses than risk contracting the infection in the shelters. “There were some people who refused to move to cyclone shelters. We first tried to convince them. When it did not work, we used force,” said an official in South 24 Parganas district.Officials said there were hardly any Covid-19 patients in remote coastal villages in the state from where around 300,000 people have been were evacuated. They added enforcing the directives to avoid Covid-19 spread in the shelters will be challenging. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday warned officials would try to enforce social distancing in the shelters, but it may not be possible as the priority will be to save lives from the cyclone.Some cyclone shelters are being used exclusively as quarantine centres for migrant workers returning from other states. The administration has also earmarked hundreds of school and colleges to accommodate the evacuees and stocked them with masks and sanitizers. South 24 Parganas district magistrate P Ulaganathan said nodal officers have been deputed for each shelter and frontline workers have been equipped with personal protection equipment in view of the pandemic. His East Midnapore counterpart, Partha Ghosh, said to ensure that social distancing is maintained, they spread the evacuees across over nearly 600 schools and colleges.The evacuation process was particularly challenging in Odisha, which has reported a surge in Covid-19 infections with 70-80 fresh cases daily. The government initially estimated that 1.1 million people across 12 districts needed to be relocated, but it revised its figures after India Meteorological Department said only Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapara and Jagatsinghpur may be affected. The authorities had earlier turned some multi-purpose cyclone shelters into quarantine centres. But as the cyclone approached, suspected patients with no symptoms were asked to stay under home quarantine. “Those shelters were then sanitised and used for cyclone evacuees,” said an official on condition of anonymity. Odisha has earmarked about 600 cyclone shelters and 7,000 other buildings for the evacuees from coastal areas. Officials said many resisted evacuation in Covid 19 red zone of Balasore citing concerns over social distancing measures. “Some families in the Talasari area, where the cyclone was initially expected to land, did not want to move. We had to advice them to at least shift to a neighbour’s concrete house,” said an official.Bhadrak district collector Gyana Ranjan Das said they managed to shift over 31,000 people to over 500 shelters with social distancing measures in place with great difficulty. “We also had to ensure that no migrant workers returning from various states were walking when Cyclone Amphan moved across the Odisha coast.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rescue-operations-hampered-because-of-covid-fears/story-SrZG2QVNrVKxjjp8eV6mMP.html
21-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan ravages Odisha, Bengal; leaves behind trail of destruction||Cyclone Amphan, which hit India’s eastern coast with winds gusting up to 185 kph on Wednesday, first barrelled along the Odisha coast with a maximum speed between 100-120 kph in Paradip and Dhamra in Bhadrak district before hitting Kendrapara, Jagatsinghpur, and Balasore. It uprooted trees, traffic signals, electric police and left nearly 3.4 million people without electricity, officials said.Special relief commissioner Pradip Jena said over 90% of the state’s telecom infrastructure, however, remained unaffected. He added the administration has begun clearing roads in the four affected districts with the help of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams. Jena said the state government’s target is to clear the stretches where trees have been uprooted and restore road communication in 12 hours. Efforts are on to restore power supply as soon as possible, he added.NDRF chief S N Pradhan told a press conference in New Delhi that 20 teams of the federal disaster response force had begun the road clearing operations in Odisha, while the 19 units deployed in West Bengal were shifting people to safety.Jena said the Odisha government has asked collectors of the affected districts to submit preliminary assessment reports on the damage caused within two days. He added the cyclone has caused damage to some government buildings and structures, affected agriculture and horticulture sectors, houses and power infrastructure.Jena said a crop advisory, prepared by the Directorate of Agriculture for protection of matured and harvested paddy as well as non-paddy, had been issued for wide circulation among the field functionaries and farmers. “Awareness camps and mike announcements were also taken up in different villages to shift the harvested crops and grains to a safer place,” he added. A 20-year old woman delivered her baby in a fire service vehicle while being taken to a hospital in Kendrapara district. Officials said an ambulance was unable to reach her village because of the adverse weather and closure of a road due to uprooted trees. A fire service team used tree-cutting machinery to clear the road and transport the woman. The mother and infant were later admitted to the hospital and said to be out of danger.The cyclone made landfall in Digha in coastal West Bengal with a sustained wind speed of 155-165 kph. The speed weakened to 130 kph when it reached Kolkata and uprooted trees, traffic signals and blocked arterial roads. Some portions of dilapidated buildings in the city collapsed.Reports from coastal Bengal indicated that thousands of mud houses had collapsed and embankments were breached with saline water gushing into villages in several districts in the Sundarbans region. West Bengal chief Mamata Banerjee told reporters that several areas were totally cut off and cannot be reached yet. “We have no information yet. It will take at least 3-4 days to assess the damage,” Banerjee said. She added South 24 Parganas and North 24 Parganas districts were “totally devastated”. “There are 500,000 people in relief centres,” Banerjee said. Banerjee will remain at the state secretariat, where she has been camping since Tuesday to oversee relief operations and take stock of the damage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amphan-ravages-odisha-bengal-leaves-behind-trail-of-destruction/story-IIQHROEtAmSje4KJX3uN2K.html
21-05-2020||India||Railways to also run AC trains from June 1; Shatabadis, Durontos to be restored||The ministry of railways issued guidelines Wednesday for the resumption of 100 pairs of regular passenger trains from June 1 with both AC and non-AC coaches, revising its earlier order allowing only non-AC trains.The bookings for these trains will begin at 10 am on May 21. The national transporter has also permitted advance reservation period of maximum 30 days. At present advance booking for regular Rajdhani trains is only allowed up to a week.Regular passenger trains including Jan Shtabadi, Sampark Kranti and Duronto Express have been restored.Railways on Tuesday announced it will run 200 special passenger trains a day from June 1.These trains will be fully reserved trains having both AC & Non AC classes. General (GS) coaches shall also have reserved seating. There will be no unreserved coach in the train, the ministry said.“The fare shall be as normal and for general (GS) coaches, being reserved, second seating (2S) fare shall be charged and seat will be provided to all the passengers, the ministry said.Only online e-ticketing will be allowed through the IRCTC website or mobile app. Booking of tickets through agents, both IRCTC agents and railway agents, will not be permitted.The 200 trains announced on Tuesday will run in addition to the premium passenger trains connecting New Delhi with 15 cities across India, and the ones ferrying stranded migrant labourers to their hometowns.RAC and waitlist will be generated as per extant rules, however, waiting list ticket holders shall not be permitted to board the train, the ministry clarified, adding that no unreserved (UTS) tickets, tatkal and premium tatkal booking will be allowed.It has also instructed all passengers to download and use the Aarogya Setu application. Passengers will also have to wear face masks at the entry and during the travel, reach the station at least 90 minutes in advance to facilitate thermal screening at the station and observe social distancing norms.Railways has also allowed all existing quotas to be permitted in these special trains. A limited number of reservation (PRS) counters shall be operated for this purpose. However, normal ticket booking cannot be done through these counters. Concession will be allowed for the four categories of ‘Divyangjan’ along with 11 categories of patient concessions.All stalls at the stations including food plaza will also be allowed to operate but only for selling take away food.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-to-also-run-ac-trains-from-june-1-shatabadis-sampark-kranti-and-durontos-to-be-restored/story-8TM7XztXTja9YtSs2IBt8O.html
21-05-2020||India||Don’t wait for last leg of service to probe govt officials: CVC directive||In his first major directive since taking over the new Chief Vigilance Commissioner (CVC) last month, Sanjay Kothari has instructed all ministries and government departments to conduct internal investigations or disciplinary proceedings against public servants much before they are due to retire. The Chief Vigilance Officers (CVOs) and administrative authorities have also been asked to send requests for investigation of such officers to CVC by the first week of the month in which they are supposed to retire. CVC, the apex vigilance body that vets complaints related to corruption or disciplinary action against government employees, has been reminding ministries and departments since 2007 to prioritize the cases against officers “due to retire shortly”. The last time such a reminder was sent was in July 2019 -- and it went along with a warning that action will be taken against erring CVOs, as first reported by HT.“There is no progress and ministries/CVOs continue to delay disciplinary proceedings/actions or investigations against public servants. This benefits that particular public servant as CVC is not usually able to give its advice in time. Some references are sent to us a few days before the retirement,” said a CVC official who didn’t wish to be named.He added that central public sector units (CPSUs) and public sector banks (PSBs) are the worst offenders wen it comes to this -- sending vigilance and investigation cases to the commission seeking its advice at the last moment.“Disciplinary proceedings at the fag end of a public servant’s career are of no use. If there is a complaint much before, CVOs should act so that action can be taken while the person is still in service,” said another CVC officer who asked not to be named.CVOs posted in every government department are responsible for finalising a disciplinary proceeding against officials indulging in any activity in violation of the norms or forwarding serious corruption complaints to CVC so that a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) can be requested if required.In its letter to all the government departments last week, which has been reviewed by HT, CVC said: “The Commission, vide its letters in 2007, 2011 and 2019, had directed CVOs of all ministries/departments/organizations to ensure expeditious finalization of disciplinary proceedings/action, particularly in respect of officials likely to retire shortly”.“The Commission had specifically impressed upon the vigilance functionaries as well as administrative authorities concerned the need to prioritize the activities of conducting investigations and completion of disciplinary action well in advance so as to avoid such late references to the Commission,” it added.Departments and ministries have been asked to send all retirement cases for its advice by 5 pm on the 10th of every month.  CVC is a statutory body and derives its powers from Central Vigilance Commission Act, 2013. It is free of control from any executive authority and has the responsibility of monitoring all vigilance activities in the federal government besides advising various authorities on planning, executing, reviewing and reforming their vigilance work. A major part of its work is to refer important corruption activities to CBIR S Sharma, former Chairman and Managing Director of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) said: “A public servant gets all his provident fund or gratuity benefit when he is retiring. If any complaint pertaining to disciplinary proceedings against him/her is not processed in time, CVC may not be able to complete its investigation in time and minor or major penalty cannot be given.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-wait-for-last-leg-of-service-to-probe-govt-officials-cvc-directive/story-3NkXXWOR73nv8t6PVoqETN.html
21-05-2020||India||Lok Sabha Speaker suggests ideas for parl panels||The average refilling rate of gas cylinders under the Ujwala Scheme vis-à-vis the normal cylinders, identifying villages along India’s international borders where no government authority has ever visited, the transmission and distribution losses and leakages of electricity in different states, and the renaming of a standing committee—Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, in a rare move, has suggested a host of ideas for parliamentary committees to consider.During a performance review of 16 department-related standing committees under the Lok Sabha on May 12 and 13, the Speaker also emphasized that the panels should work with an eye on the last people in line and keep them at the centre of their recommendations.It is unusual for the Lok Sabha Speaker to suggest topics for discussion for panels but experts pointed out that the Speaker or the Rajya Sabah chairman are within their rights to give constructive suggestions for panels to consider. “The Lok Sabha Speaker and the Rajya Sabha chairman constitute the panels under their respective houses, and these panels also work largely under the guidance of the presiding officers” said a senior functionary of the Lok Sabha who asked not to be named.A second official of the Lok Sabha added on condition of anonymity that these are “not directions of the Speaker but ideas for the panels to consider.”Indian Parliament has 24 department related standing panels out of which 16 belong to Lok Sabha and the remaining come under the purview of the Upper House.During the performance review of the panels for the last financial year, Birla also sought a report on the attendance of MPs in panel meetings. According to an official, Birla is also open to shifting MPs with low attendance to other panels to maximize their contribution.Birla even suggested a discussion between the chairman of the agriculture panel and ministry officials on Pradhan Mantri Fasal Beema Yojana, a key crop insurance scheme for the farmers. He wanted the Committee on Urban Development to be renamed as panel on Housing and Urban Development in line with the ministry’s name.For the railways panel, the Speaker suggested looking into the use of land along railway lines to develop horticulture, floriculture and solar power plants, privatization in Railways, and a review of historical hikes in passenger and freight fares. “The committee should also discuss increasing transporting goods through railways, the location of rail corridors, modernisation of rail godowns and use of machines for loading and unloading of goods etc,” Birla suggested at the meeting.This was the first comprehensive review of the panels in many years, said the two officials, and it is part of efforts to improve the efficiency of Parliamentary panels. The parliamentary committees, established in 1993, are seen as an extension of the house and are responsible for handling matters that can’t be taken up due to time constraints. Birla, who is envisaging structural reforms in the functioning of Indian Parliament, has also asked for detailed background notes for panels, a compilation of major recommendations of all committees which have had a significant impact on common citizens, and a report on recommendations which have an impact.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ls-speaker-suggests-ideas-for-parl-panels/story-py2xFwQkol3ti6BAFS8q3K.html
21-05-2020||India||‘Lockdown announced without any planning,’ says Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel speaks to Hindustan Times on cash-transfer scheme Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojna that is expected to benefit 1.9 million farmers, the Centre’s response to the Covid-19 crisis and how his state is dealing with migrant labourers. Edited excerpts: Firstly, most of the land in Chhattisgarh is non-irrigated, and most of the farmers are marginal and face the possibility of drought in their region. Secondly, about 40% population of the state lives below poverty line. Last year, we initiated many measures to help paddy farmers. This year, we decided to extend the benefits to sugarcane and maize farmers as well [the new scheme will benefit paddy, maize and sugarcane farmers]...The aim is to increase the income of the farmers and people...It [scheme] includes 90% of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Other Backward Classes and state’s marginal farmers.We are launching one more scheme for landless labourers to benefit more people. I have constituted a committee today [Wednesday]. In the next two months it will submit a report; on the basis of that [report] a scheme for these landless labourers will also be framed by the government. We are working on the numbers and structure of that scheme, and we hope that more people will be benefitted.The central government always believes in ‘events’. The government announced demonetisation [of high-value banknotes in 2016] and launched the GST (goods and services tax) in the night. Similarly, the central government announced the lockdown in the country without any planning...There was no strategy or management before or after the lockdown.If the central government was aware that the whole world was suffering due to the pandemic..., it should have been prepared... There are millions of migrants in different states. Why did the central government not start trains before the lockdown? They should have sent the migrant labourers or anyone stranded home before the lockdown... Migrants are dying and the kind of suffering everyone is facing should have been controlled.The central government announced a package of Rs 20 lakh crore, which includes Rs 1.7 lakh that was announced earlier...We, as a state, got some direct benefits. They announced that 5kg rice will be given to people for two months, but this should be extended for a year… I have asked twice to provide Rs 30,000 crore to our to encourage economic activity and give direct cash to the poor, but the Centre has not responded…We have arranged for buses, food, and medical facilities for the labourers passing through our state. We have deployed buses to ferry them to their states and are very empathetic towards them. Officials have been instructed to take care of them.Everything could not go smooth in this situation... which other state is doing what we are doing for the migrants of our country? We are ferrying migrants of seven states. Every day, over 12,000 people are reaching Chhattisgarh [from different states], and we are ferrying them to their home states. There are incidents in other states of police beating migrants. Tell me [about] one [such] incident in my state. We are very empathetic towards migrants and poor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-announced-without-any-planning-bhupesh-baghel/story-kBlbUFFyZLw9cuWe9HuYnI.html
21-05-2020||India||Only 6% cases need hospitalisation, over 40,000 have recovered: Govt||Just about 6.39% of active coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in India need hospitalisation, according to the latest government data that indicates the outbreak has not been as severe in the country as in certain other countries. Only 0.45% of Covid-19 patients in India need ventilator support currently, compared to the estimated 2-3% globally. Intensive care treatment was being provided to about 3% cases as of Wednesday.Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, Union ministry of health, said the recovery rate of patients has also improved from the earlier 7.1% in late March when the lockdown to check the pandemic spread was imposed to the current 39.62%. “It is a positive sign to see that more than 40,000 positive cases have recovered, and those needing hospitalisation are much less than global figures,” said Agarwal at a briefing on Wednesday.Agarwal said 15 worst-hit countries with over 1.4 billion population have reported 3.6 million cases. He added India has a population of 1.37 billion population but has reported just around 100,000 cases so far.“[The] 15 countries have reported at least 34 times more cases and 83 times more deaths as compared to India, which says a lot about measures taken by us to manage the situation. India’s focus has always been on taking preventive action,” said Agarwal.India has only 7.9 cases per 100,000 population compared to 62.3 globally. The global average rate is 4.2 deaths per 100,000 population while in India, it is 0.2. The government has attributed this to timely case identification and clinical management.India’s testing capacity has also been strengthened. Over 100,000 tests have been conducted daily since Monday. With 1,07,609 Covid-19 tests since Tuesday, their number has gone up to over 2.5 million in 555 labs.“Of all the labs active for Covid testing in India, 391 are part of the Indian Council of Medical Research [ICMR] network and 164 are private... Of all the samples tested in a single day, 89,466 were tested in government labs and 18,143 in private laboratories,” said Dr RR Gangakhedkar, who heads ICMR’s epidemiology and communicable disease division. He confirmed the government was in the process of reviewing the use of hydroxychloroquine as prophylaxis and treatment modality for Covid-19. Dr Jugal Kishore, who heads the community medicine department at Vardhman Mahavir Medical College and Safdarjung Hospital in New Delhi, said the Covid-19 lockdown was supposed to buy time, which it has managed to do. “...and to consolidate the gains, people will now need to incorporate the behavioural changes for good such as avoiding mass gatherings, wearing masks, maintaining hygiene, following cough etiquettes, and staying at home if feeling sick,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-6-cases-need-hospitalisation-over-40-000-have-recovered-govt/story-4jTOt7S5TNhKpPzaBZ0YQI.html
21-05-2020||India||After weeks of discussions, govt clears air travel||On May 11, Indian Railways announced it would run special trains to 15 destinations from Delhi, and back. By then, the union government had already started discussing the resumption of flight services, top government officials involved in the process said on condition of anonymity. On Wednesday, the government announced the resumption of limited flight services, starting Monday, May 25. As a first step, the officials said, the ministry of home affairs and health started initial discussions with the civil aviation ministry, the Airport Authority of India (AAI) and airlines in the last week of April. The brief was that only limited flights should be considered.“But as complex negotiations involving private airlines took a long time, the standard operating procedure could not be finalized before the union government announced Lockdown 4.0 on May 17,” said one of the officials cited in the first instance. Running the special trains for workers or even the trains to and from Delhi was relatively easier as only government agencies, the union government and the states were involved, a second official said. “The private airlines were keen to resume services as they were incurring heavy losses, but at the same time , they were aware that they had to balance safety and health concerns. We too, had to factor in the business aspect; many other sectors were slowly being opened up to restart operations,” said the first official.The airlines sent dozens of queries pertaining, at time, to even minute details such as what are the safety measures to be adopted for different types passengers and the pilots and air hostesses. The airport authority of India was entrusted to come up with a plan on how social distancing and other health norms could be ensured in an airport.The Prime Minister’s Office, a third official said, was clear that only select routes would be opened and that planes would not fly to capacity . This person added that the norms that the airlines and airports will have to follow have factored in inputs from the home and heath ministries. According to the officials, discussions with the states started soon after; many were open to the idea, although two large states were sceptical . “Even as aviation is completely managed by the union government, states too, have an important role to play. And in this situation of pandemic, the top brass of the Centre would be reluctant to open new transport facilities without taking the states on board,” said the third official.On Wednesday, aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri tweeted: “Domestic civil aviation operations will recommence in a calibrated manner from Monday 25th May 2020. All airports and air carriers are being informed to be ready for operations from 25th May. SOPs for passenger movement are also being separately issued by civil aviation ministry.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-weeks-of-discussions-govt-clears-air-travel/story-nvlX6BCZ278TqQFFA2nTkM.html
21-05-2020||India||Bharat Biotech ties up with US varsity for Covid vaccine||Bharat Biotech has partnered with the US-based Thomas Jefferson University (TJU) to develop its experimental vaccine Coravax against Covid-19 under the accelerated development programme.This is the third vaccine candidates that the Hyderabad-based vaccine major is working on using two different platforms. One uses the nasal flu backbone to deliver Sars-CoV2 genetic material to produce an immune response, while two use the deactivated rabies vaccine as a vector.The new viral-vector vaccine candidate, which was developed by TJU researchers in January, has recently completed preliminary trials in animal models that show a strong antibody response in vaccinated mice. The data on whether it protects vaccinated animals against Sars-CoV-2 is expected next month.The vaccine uses a proven deactivated rabies vaccine as a carrier for the genetic code of the Sars-CoV-2 spike protein, which the virus uses to enter human cells and cause infection.The rabies vaccine has been shown to generate a rigorous but safe immune reaction that confers lifelong protection. “Since we know the immune system reacts to the rabies vaccine with a strong response, when we add the coronavirus component, we expect to see that level of protection and immune memory carry over to the Sars-CoV-2 viral protein as well,” said Matthias Schnell, director of Jefferson Vaccine Center in Philadelphia.Bharat Biotech is the world’s largest supplier of rabies vaccines and the rabies carrier vaccine being used is approved for use in the whole population, including children and pregnant women.“We are particularly excited about this technology since the basic proof of concept has been established while using it for other pandemic infectious diseases. Bharat Biotech will be involved in an end-to-end development of the vaccine, including comprehensive clinical trials to achieve commercial licensure,” said Dr Krishna Mohan, CEO, Bharat Biotech.With support from the Department of Biotechnology under the Ministry of Science and Technology, the company plans to begin human trials by December 2020.Global efforts to develop a vaccine against Covid-19 are proceeding at an unprecedented pace and scale, with companies using established platforms and parallel vaccine development phases to fast-track development. Vaccine development, from lab to market, on average takes a decade.Scientists are using a massive range of new technology platforms for vaccine development, including nucleic acid (DNA and RNA), virus-like particles, peptides, viral vectors (replicating and non-replicating), recombinant proteins, live attenuated virus and inactivated virus approaches, many of which have never before been used to develop vaccines that are currently licenced for use.Around 25 groups are working on viral-vector vaccines, in which a virus such as rabies or adenovirus is genetically engineered so it can produce coronavirus proteins within the body without causing disease. “Most vaccine development focuses on identifying the genetic code of the spike protein that Sars-CoV-2 uses to enter human cells, which is then used in the vaccine to trigger an immune response against subsequent exposure in people who are vaccinated. The Bharat Biotech project is moving very fast,” said Dr NK Ganguly, former director general, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).“Our partnership with Bharat Biotech will accelerate our vaccine candidate through the next phases of development and we be able to complete animal testing and move to phase-1 clinical trial rapidly,” said Schnell, whose centre has previously used this approach to confer strong immunity in animal models against coronaviruses that causes severe acute respiratory syndrome and middle eastern respiratory syndrome.Under the licence agreement, Bharat Biotech gains exclusive rights to develop, market and deliver Jefferson’s vaccine across the world, excluding in the US, Europe, and Japan, where Jefferson continues to seek partners.The other potential vaccines that have Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (Birac) funding are Bharat Biotech’s second rabies vector vaccine that being developed in partnership with ICMR-National Institute of Virology in Pune, and Ahmedabad-based Cadila Pharmaceuticals vaccine project that uses recombinant DNA technology.Birac is also supporting Pune-based Serum Institute of India’s phase III trials to determine whether the vaccine candidate, VPM1002, which was developed against tuberculosis by scientists at the Max Planck Institute for Infection Biology, also protects against Sars-CoV-2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-ties-up-with-us-varsity-for-covid-vaccine/story-dyJPOzW2G2rXcwsa9XV3tL.html
21-05-2020||India||Covid-19 crisis: Asymptomatic people can infect surfaces||In a finding that has major implications for people using public transport and sharing office space as the lockdown is relaxed in India, a study has found that asymptomatic and presymtomatic people with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are highly infectious and can extensively contaminate the environment in a very short time.Different surfaces in the hotel rooms of two students, who returned to China from studying abroad on March 19 and March 20, without symptoms were tested three hours after they tested positive on the second day in quarantine, according to the study.Eight of the 22 samples collected from the two rooms tested positive for Covid-19.These included door handles, light switches, faucets, thermometers, TV remotes, pillows, duvet covers, sheets, towels, bathroom door handles, toilet seats and flushing buttons, said the study, which was published in Emerging Infectious Diseases journal of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.“The detection of Sars-CoV-2 RNA (genetic material) in the surface samples of the sheet, duvet cover, and pillow cover highlights the importance of proper handling procedures when changing or laundering used linens of SARS-CoV-2 patients,” concluded researchers.What has fuelled the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic is the long incubation period of the infection, which, on average, takes 5.1 days to show symptoms, according to a study published in March in The Annals of Internal Medicine. During this period, patients do not develop symptoms of cough, fever or difficulty in breathing but begin spreading the infection.Some people have no symptoms because they have mild disease or because they are pre-symptomatic, but they can be highly infective. Young, healthy people are more likely to have mild or no symptoms compared to older people and those with chronic illnesses.“Studies show infected people take on average five to six days to develop symptoms, but are infective from day one. Lockdowns prevent undiagnosed infected people from stepping out and infecting others, but with less restricted travel, chances of exposure increase, especially because it is a younger, healthier workforce that is the most mobile,” said Dr Ambarish Dutta, associate professor of epidemiology and public health, Indian Institute of Public Health, Bhubaneswar. An earlier study published in the journal, Nature Medicine, on April 15 found around 44% infections were spread by people with no symptoms, with people with Covid-19 being the most infectious two or three days before the symptoms appear. Another study in March found 48% cases in Singapore and 62% in Tianjin, China, were spread by people with no symptoms.The risk of infection and severe disease is higher in older people, men, the obese, the poor, those living in densely populated areas, and people with chronic kidney disease.“As lockdown lifts and people become mobile, social distancing, wearing masks and hand washing will be the only defence against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), for which there is no approved vaccine or cure,” said Dr Dutta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asymptomatic-people-can-infect-surfaces/story-9kQUjvmp1c2GPIxf4OeheP.html
21-05-2020||India||Two-metre distance may not be enough: Study||Droplets of saliva can travel as far as six metres even in low wind speeds of 4kmph, a new study has found, indicating that current social distancing guidelines of two metres may be insufficient to stop a Covid-19 patient from transmitting the disease. The study, published in the Physics of Fluids journal under the American Institute of Physics, used a three-dimensional model to investigate the transport, dispersion, and evaporation of saliva particles from a human cough. The scientists found that when the wind speed is approximately zero, the saliva droplets did not travel 2 metres, which is well within the social distancing recommendations. However, at wind speeds varying from 4 km/h to 15 km/h, the saliva droplets were seen to travel up to 6 metres with a decrease in the concentration and liquid droplet size in the wind direction.“Even with a slight breeze of 4 km/h, saliva travels 6 metres in five seconds. Therefore, depending on the environmental conditions, the 2 m social distance may not be sufficient, so crowed places will be affected,” said Dimitris Drikakis, co-author of the study, in an email to HT. If the wind speed is 15kmph, the droplet travelled 6 metres in 1.6 seconds.To study how saliva moves through air, the scientists created a computational fluid dynamics simulation that examined the state of every saliva droplet moving through the air in front of a coughing person. Their simulation considered the effects of humidity, dispersion force, interactions of molecules of saliva and air, and how the droplets change from liquid to vapour and evaporate. The analysis involved partial differential equations on 1,008 saliva droplets and solving approximately 3.7 million equations.“The purpose of the mathematical modelling and simulation is to take into account all the real coupling or interaction mechanisms that may take place between the main bulk fluid flow and the saliva droplets, and between the saliva droplets themselves,” said Talib Dbouk, co-author of the paper.The scientists considered an environment of 20 °C for the fluid, 50% relative humidity, 15 °C at the ground, and 34 °C for the human mouth. “We aimed to approximate as much as possible a real situation in winter/spring seasons. Further investigation is required to quantify the effects of ground surface temperature as well as relative humidity and ambient air temperature,” the study said.The scientists agreed that more studies needed to be done to understand the behaviour of fluid droplets in indoor environments, where air conditioning significantly affects the particle movement through air.“We need to understand the droplet evaporation more deeply, especially at different environmental conditions. It is work in progress,” said Drikakis.“It is worth investigating the behaviour of saliva in indoor environments, where air conditioning systems may have significant effects on the movement of particles through the air,” he added.Transmission of the coronavirus through speech and cough droplets, especially in public spaces and crowded environments, has been a major area of concern for policy makers and governments. Globally, research has shown that the virus spreads easily in an aerosol form, and even through speech. Experts said that this study added to earlier literature that under normal conditions, micro droplets can easily travel up to a distance of about 6 meters. Ajit Mohan Srivastava, a professor at the Institute of Physics, Bhubaneswar, said that normal outside conditions with motion of vehicles, especially during summers in India, have winds changing directions, even having upward drifts resulting from the hot ground. “Such drifts will make the droplet cloud fly higher, and hence travel to larger distances (even larger than 6 metres),” he said. “One should realize that these droplets resulting from coughing, sneezing, or even talking or breathing are micro droplets quite like the droplets in clouds, fog and mist (size varying from tens to hundreds microns). We all have seen how fog, mist, or cloud, can keep floating in the air, even rising higher with slight upward wind drift. Imagine that all these droplets are carrying infection for the case of coughing from an infected person,” he added.One important distinction for India, he said, was that with much higher temperatures (until rains start), droplet evaporation will be much faster than in the study of the paper. “Thus smaller droplets will evaporate away, hopefully making transmission less effective. In places like Delhi, where humidity is much lower than the 50% considered in the study, again droplet evaporation will be stronger, hence transmission less effective. But in coastal places, where humidity is generally very high, evaporation will be much less effective, so transmission will be more effective,” he said.The most important distinction, according to him, was that when people are walking around and vehicles moving, wind pattern is never uniform or horizontal. “Any change in wind direction, especially upward drifts may dramatically increase the droplet transmission distance. In this situation, I will not rule out the possibility that droplet clouds can float in the air for very long time, basically travelling every where inside the room.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-metre-distance-may-not-be-enough-study/story-URziNoJA7g5FjeFHMfSDLN.html
21-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan takes at least 10-12 lives in Bengal, three in Odisha, total damage being ascertained||Super cyclone Amphan has taken at least 10-12 lives in West Bengal and at least another three in Odisha as it wreaked havoc in districts of North and South 24 Parganas after roaring past coastal districts of Odisha before making landfall between Digha in West Bengal and Bangladesh’s Hatia islands late Wednesday afternoon. Uprooted trees, traffic signals and power outages were left in its wake.At around 2:30 pm on Wednesday, Cyclone Amphan made landfall with sustained wind speeds of 155-165 kmph spiralling up to 185 kmph and weakening to 130 kmph when it reached West Bengal capital Kolkata, uprooting trees and traffic signals and blocking arterial roads. Some portions of dilapidated buildings caved in.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said the cyclone had killed “at least 10-12 people” in the state and caused the maximum damage in the two districts of South 24 Parganas and North 24 Parganas, which were “totally devastated”.“There are 5 lakh persons in relief centers. Several areas are totally cut off and cannot be reached yet. We have no information yet - it will take at least 3-4 days to assess the damage,” Banerjee told reporters. The details of the reported casualties in Bengal are awaited.Banerjee will remain at the state secretariat Nabanna, where she has been camping since Tuesday, to oversee further relief operations and take stock of the damage.Early reports from coastal Bengal received on Wednesday evening indicated that thousands of mudhouses collapsed in the storm, while trees and electric poles were uprooted. Embankments were breached and saline water gushed into villages in several districts in the Sundarbans.In neighbouring Odisha’s Bhadrak district, a two-month-old baby was killed when the walls of his family’s mud house collapsed early Wednesday morning due to overnight rain, while in Kendrapara district, a woman who had gone out fishing this morning drowned to death. Officials said that a team had been sent to Bhadrak district to ascertain the exact cause of death after an autopsy.A woman of Bhogarai block in Balasore district died after an electric pole fell on her. The woman had stepped outside for some work when the pole uprooted due to the winds. While officials in Odisha had evacuated more than 1.5 lakh people from the coastal and adjoining districts into cyclone shelters till Tuesday evening, they could not clarify why the family of the deceased newborn was left behind. Amphan, the strongest storm since the 1999 supercyclone, first barreled along the Odisha coast, with maximum wind speeds of between 100-120 kmph in Paradip and the Dhamra coast of Bhadrak district respectively. It uprooted trees and bent electric poles in coastal Odisha districts of Kendrapara, Jagatsinghpur, Bhadrak and Balasore. Nearly 34 lakh power consumers in the state were affected as 65 numbers of 33 KV feeders were affected by the cyclone. However, special relief commissioner Pradip Jena said that more than 90 per cent of the state’s telecom infrastructure was not affected.Jena said after the cyclone passed, the administration aided by the NDRF, ODRAF, Fire Services and workers of Odisha Forest Develoopment Corporation had begun clearing roads in the four districts.Early Wednesday, the port town of Paradip faced Amphan’s fury as a gale-force wind of over 100 kmph accompanied by more than 200 mm of rain, uprooted scores of trees, electric poles, blew away asbestos and tin roofs of several. At the port, more than 100 truck drivers took shelter in their vehicles, waiting for the storm to blow over.In a village in Kendrapara district, a 20-year old woman delivered her baby in a fire service vehicle while being taken to a government hospital, after an ambulance was unable to reach them due to the adverse weather and roads blocked by fallen trees. The fire service teams used tree-cutting machinery to clear the roadblock and transport the woman. The mother and infant are admitted to the hospital and said to be out of danger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-takes-at-least-10-12-lives-in-bengal-three-in-odisha-total-damage-being-ascertained/story-cnOXNTIFEP5FJVK5Nxm1UJ.html
21-05-2020||India||Railways to run AC trains from June 1: Here’s a list of trains allowed||The Railways will start running 200 passenger trains soon from June 1, bookings for which will begin from 10 am on May 21. The train services will include Jan Shatabdi trains, Sampark Kranti, Duronto Express and other regular passenger trains. There will be no unreserved coaches in these trains. No linen, blankets and curtains shall be provided inside the trains.Only online e-ticketing will be done through the IRCTC website or through the mobile app. No tickets will be issued across the reservation counter from any railway station. The fare shall be normal and for General (GS) coaches, second seating (2S) fares shall be charged and the seat will be provided to all passengers. Only passengers with confirmed tickets shall be allowed to enter railway stations. The ARP or advance reservation period shall be a maximum of 30 days.All passengers will be screened before boarding and only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to board the train. On arrival at their destination, the passengers will have to adhere to strict health protocols as prescribed by the destination state or Union Territory.On Tuesday, the Railway ministry had said only non AC trains will run, but a day later it has now also allowed AC trains.All passengers must download and use the Aarogya Setu application and passengers are advised to travel light, the railway ministry said in a statement.Here’s a list of some of the passenger trains that will be allowed to ply from June 1:Kushinagar ExpressKonarka ExpressDarbhanga ExpressKamayani ExpressMahanagri ExpressUdyan ExpressBhopal ExpressLucknow MailSanghmitra ExpressPadatik ExpressShramjevi ExpressSampoorn Kranti ExpressPrayagraj ExpressGomti ExpressKarambhumi ExpressShram Shakti ExpressSamprak Kranti Express (Jodhpur to Delhi Sarai Rohila)Suryanagri ExpressPushpak ExpressGorakhdham ExpressShivganga ExpressMangla ExpressChamparan Satyagraha ExpressKarnataka Samprak Kranti ExpressHusain Sagar ExpressFalaknuma ExpressSachkhand ExpressTelangana ExpressPurushottam ExpressHowrah-Mumbai MailGoldenTemple MailAshram ExpressPaschim ExpressKarnavati ExpressMewar ExpressMahananda ExpressNetravati ExpressAP ExpressMahamana ExpressGolconda ExpressRayalseema ExpressSabarmati Express (Ahmedabad to Darbhanga)Sabarmati Express (Ahmedabad to Varanasi)Tapti Ganga ExpressVaishali ExpressPoorva Express (Howrah to New Delhi via Patna)Poorva Express (Howrah to New Delhi via Gaya)SaptKranti ExpressSatyagraha ExpressSuhaildev ExpressShaheed ExpressSaryu Yamuna ExpressBrahmputra MailAzimabad ExpressGodavari ExpressDuronto Express (Howrah to Yashwantpur)Duronto Express (Sealdah to Puri)Duronto Express (Shalimar to Patna)Duronto Express (Ernakulam to Nizammudin)DurontoExpress (Secunderabad to Nizammudin)JanShatabdi Express (Howrah to Bhubaneshwar)JanShatabdi Express (Howrah to Patna)JanShatabdi Express (Patna to Ranchi)JanShatabdi Express (Dehradun to Kaathgodam)JanShatabdi Express (Guwahati to Jorhat)JanShatabdi Express (Haridwar to Amritsar)JanShatabdi Express (New Delhi to Dehradun)JanShatabdi Express (New Delhi to Una-Himachal)JanShatabdi Express (Ajmer to Delhi SR)JanShatabdi Express (Howrah to BarbilAvadh Express (Bandra to Gorakhpur)Avadh Express (Bandra to Muzaffarpur)Bihar Sampark KrantiGujarat Sampark KrantiGoa Express.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-to-run-ac-trains-from-june-1-here-s-a-list-of-100-trains-allowed/story-lG5PQ9I1etAYwnfUVCIDDK.html
21-05-2020||India||Loud boom from IAF test flight startles Bengaluru||Residents of several parts of Bengaluru heard a loud sound around 1.25pm, leading to some residents rushing out of their homes to find the source. Such was the intensity of the sound that some doors, windows and even buildings rattled as if an earthquake had shaken the earth. Nischal Prasad, a resident of Old Airport Road, said, “I sat down for lunch when I heard the deafening sound. I immediately rushed out to my balcony, thinking it was an earthquake. While the sound was really loud, it lasted less than a minute,” he added.However, the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNMDC) denied that any earthquake had taken place. GS Srinivas Reddy, the director of KSNMDC, clarified, “The activity reported in Bengaluru is not because of an earthquake. The seismometers did not capture any ground vibration as generally happens during a mild tremor. The activity is purely a loud unknown noise.”Residents reported the sound from Whitefield, Koramangala, HSR Layout, Attibele, Chandapura and several other localities of Bengaluru. The officials of KSNMDC said that seismometers would have captured some readings even if it was a mild earthquake. Dispelling speculation of the sound being a sonic boom caused by a Sukhoi aircraft breaking the sound barrier, Air Force officials and HAL authorities clarified that it was not either of their planes that caused the sound. A sonic boom is caused when an object travels farther than the speed of sound, creating shock waves in the atmosphere.The most likely cause, according to KSNMDC officials, is that it is some kind of geological phenomenon and its cause, in this case, is being studied both by mining and geology experts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/loud-boom-from-iaf-test-flight-startles-bengaluru/story-Akg1yRpOEPSX2NFPx5C2HJ.html
21-05-2020||India||Delhi records 1,000 cases in 48 hours, cases cross 11,000||Delhi hit the 10,000 mark in terms of Covid-19 cases on Monday; it logged another thousand cases in just two days, mirroring trends in Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, and Gujarat, which have seen an increase in the number of cases over the past two weeks. Delhi recorded 534 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Wednesday, taking its tally to 11,088, according to the daily bulletin released by the Delhi government.Delhi has added half its cases since May 5. The number of deaths in Delhi increased by 10 to 176 according to the bulletin, putting the mortality rate of the infection in the city to almost 1.6%, much lower than the national average of 3.05%.“This is the mortality rate based on the number of infections that have been detected. The percentage would be lower still if we consider the asymptomatic people who might not have been tested,” said Dr SK Sarin, director of Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences and the head of the five-member committee that aided the Chief Minister in Covid-19 preparedness.None of the 10 deaths mentioned in the bulletin happened during the last 24-hours. The three-member death review committee is currently in the process of adding deaths that have happened in the past to the city’s toll after examining the patient case files, investigations, and death summary.The Delhi government on Tuesday directed all designated Covid-19 hospitals to strictly follow the standard operating procedures and submit death reports every day at 5pm before the death committee meets. “It has been observed that in spite of the order, healthcare facilities in Delhi are not reporting death (in time) of Covid positive persons as per the SOPs circulated,” the order from the Delhi health secretary Padmini Singla said.The new SOPs were released by the government on May 10 after a discrepancy in the number of deaths reported in the daily bulletin and from the individual hospitals was highlighted. The backlog deaths started being recorded to the cumulative toll May 12 onwards.“After the SOPs were put in place the reports from the hospital did start coming in,” said a senior official from Delhi’s health department.Of the 5,720 people still with the infection in the city, around 30% are admitted to designated Covid-19 hospitals with severe symptoms. Over 41% of the people in the city still with the infection – 2,358 people – are in home isolation.Only 23 are on ventilators. Lok Nayak hospital, which has the highest number of Covid-19 patients in the city has 30 people in the intensive care unit and none on ventilator. At All India Institute of Medical Sciences, which has the second highest number of Covid-19 patients, 13 people are in the intensive care unit with 10 on ventilators.The Delhi government has also designated the All India Institute of Ayurveda in Sarita Vihar as a Covid Care Centre for admitting those with mild symptoms. This is in addition to three of the Delhi government-run AYUSH hospitals designated as Covid Health Centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-records-1-000-cases-in-48-hours-cases-cross-11-000/story-cTeCYPDvC4GrkdrIgulmtI.html
21-05-2020||Editorials||Delivering welfare to the beneficiary||Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal has acted decisively in setting a timeline of a month to probe a potential fraud in the PM-Kisan scheme in his state. The Union agriculture ministry had alerted the state about irregularities in the cash transfer programme for farmers, according to a report in this newspaper. It appears, prima facie, that ineligible people signed up for the scheme, which provides ~6,000 a year to farmers with valid documentation. With the coronavirus disease pushing more people into poverty and affecting the earning capacity of millions, it is vital that welfare schemes reach the targeted beneficiary in the shortest possible time. For many, these schemes are their only source of income now. A major issue with India’s welfare architecture has traditionally been targeting. For schemes which are not universal, reaching the intended beneficiary is a challenge. While direct benefits transfer and the Jan Dhan accounts-Aadhaar-mobile phone (JAM) trinity have helped in reducing leakages and eliminating intermediaries, the pandemic will pose new challenges in identifying beneficiaries. Many have moved from urban settings to rural areas. As people travel across states due to job losses, the states have to coordinate much more effectively using their own databases and inputs from the Centre. The Assam case (Aadhaar wasn’t mandated for welfare schemes in the North-east) has shown that part of the problem is the delay in updating records, which should happen before schemes are implemented. All of this increases the possibility of fraud.As the reliance of citizens on welfare increases, it is incumbent on governments to plug the loopholes in welfare delivery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/delivering-welfare-to-the-beneficiary/story-Gj47O8ZyYtvsxNnEFsPnZP.html
21-05-2020||Editorials||Build back, with an eye on the environment | HT Editorial||The first peer-reviewed analysis of the coronavirus pandemic’s impact on global carbon emissions has reported that daily emissions of the greenhouse gas plunged 17% by early April compared to 2019 levels. However, the annual decline is likely to be only about 7%, if some restrictions to halt the spread of the coronavirus remain in place. If they are lifted in mid-June, the fall for the year is likely to be 4%. That would still be the biggest annual drop in emissions since World War II. While the steep drop is good news, it will make little dent in the larger battle against global warming. A UN Environment Programme report last year found that emissions must fall by 7.6% every year this decade to meet the Paris Agreement’s goal of checking warming at 1.5°C.In an interview to The Guardian, one of the scientists involved in the new study said that experience of the crisis has shown that changes in behaviour by individuals — such as not flying, working from home and driving less — can help cut emissions partly. But the bulk of emission sources remain intact, which suggests that the world needs structural changes in the economy and industry. That’s why the coronavirus-induced slowdown must be used as a moment to build more sustainable, resilient and inclusive economies. Otherwise, the climate crisis will not just have its own set of effects but also lead to more health scares, environmental degradation, natural disasters, and inequality, with vulnerable communities most affected. Every crisis now has a strong environment dimension. Use the dip in emissions to imagine a new, more eco-friendly, world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/build-back-with-an-eye-on-the-environment/story-Bi6QUEAdK8jYFyyQ2oX1ZJ.html
