24-05-2020||News||Covid-19: Fight uncertainty with data| Analysis||Arguably the most important scientific statement on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) was made by Dr Anthony Fauci, director of the United States (US) National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease, in his testimony to the US Senate, “But I am very careful, and hopefully humble in knowing that I don’t know everything about this disease.” This is the reality one is confronted with and, therefore, the biggest challenge, political and scientific, is to make decisions in uncertainty. Our best hope perhaps in the short- and medium-run is that we urgently invest in building our knowledge about the virus, while hoping in the long-run that we will have a vaccine.In the early days of the pandemic, limited data availability led the first generation epidemiological models to predict that hundreds of millions would be infected with the virus, and millions of lives lost. Fortunately, the reality so far has turned out to be very different. However, the situation is still worrisome. From 657 cases on March 25, India has more than 125,000 cases today. Even more troubling is that active cases continue to grow, despite a significant slowdown since the national lockdown.To understand the future trajectory of the pandemic and to frame appropriate policy responses, we need granular data based on contact tracing at the level of a city or district to provide information on three important epidemiological parameters. One, incubation period, which is the interval between infection and symptoms. The distribution of this parameter helps the government and experts understand the nature, extent and possible future scenarios of the outbreak. It also informs in the evaluation of the disease-control strategy.Two, the serial interval, which is the time between the onset of the illness in the primary case (infector) and illness onset in the secondary case (infectee). If the estimated average of the serial interval is shorter than the estimated average incubation period, then pre-symptomatic transmission is more likely to happen than symptomatic transmission. Research from Japan has indicated that the median serial interval for Covid-19 is 4.1 days, which is less than the mean incubation period of approximately five days. The public policy implication of this is that containment via case isolation might be a challenging task. Containment would, therefore, require to be guided by an aggressive testing and rapid contact tracing strategy.Three, the basic reproduction ratio (also popularly known as R0), which is the average number of secondary cases per primary case. There has been a great deal of focus on this parameter, because if the R0 is greater than one, then the probability that there will be an outbreak is extremely high.Given the importance of the parameter R0, one has to exercise great caution in interpreting and estimating it. Most models that estimate this parameter assume that all individuals have a homogenous transmission and constant recovery rate. Therefore, a population-based R0 is estimated with the implication that if this is greater than one, then outbreaks from a single infected person is highly likely to happen. However, research based on the previous Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (Sars) epidemic in 2003 has shown that there is a great deal of variability in individual infectiousness. For example, research on Sars epidemic from Singapore revealed that the majority (approximately 73%) of the cases were mildly infectious; in other words, they had an R0 of less than one, while a small proportion of them (approximately 6%) was highly infectious or “super-spreaders” with an R0 > eight.The variability of R0 plays an important role in the dynamics of an outbreak. Models that account for individual variability show that even if the population-based R0 is greater than one, an outbreak could still be a low-probability event. Introducing individual-level variability in the model thus explains why during the Sars epidemic in 2003, several cities did not witness explosive outbreaks despite undetected exposures to infectious cases. In these models, outbreaks are typically caused by super-spreader events (SSEs).In the Indian context, this might explain why Mumbai is experiencing an explosive outbreak, while many other large, highly-dense cities with significant populations dwelling in slums, are not experiencing such an outbreak.The above point becomes apparent when one compares Kasaragod to Mumbai. On April 2, Kasaragod had 127 confirmed cases, while Mumbai had 185. However, by April 16, there were zero new cases in Kasaragod while Mumbai experienced a devastating outbreak. In late March, the police in Kasaragod, adopted an aggressive contact tracing model, and identified approximately, 20,000 potential “super-spreaders” — these were primary and secondary contacts of those who returned from Gulf countries. A strategy of “triple lock down” was adopted by the police, whereby these potential super-spreaders were put under a more stringent home quarantine compared to the rest of the people in the district.This prevented an SSE in Kasaragod and minimised the risk of an outbreak. A key implication of this from a policy perspective is that if highly infectious individuals or super-spreaders can be predictively identified, we could avert more general lockdowns in the future. Moving forward, armed with more granular data and a better understanding of the Covid-19 virus, we could move away from a policy of general lockdown towards a policy of a smart lockdown.It is important to remind ourselves that we know very little about the virus. Our best hope, until the vaccine is discovered, is to collect as much granular and disaggregated data as possible on the epidemiological parameters that have been outlined here. This should inform our real-time policy in the collective fight against the Covid-19 virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-fight-uncertainty-with-data-analysis/story-Hew2Ly0LuusbOWwTjuvICJ.html
24-05-2020||News||Use the armed forces in dealing with the crisis | Analysis||Last Monday, lockdown 4.0 with some relaxations was promulgated. But this did not end, as the Supreme Court noted, the deluge of migrants making their way home. The question being asked by many, including serving and retired military personnel, is why the armed forces, the most-trusted instrument of the State, has not been more actively involved in containing the biggest internal security crisis facing the country. A serving lieutenant colonel, a retired commodore and two former Navy chiefs — the first two on this page — and others on social media have urged the armed forces be requisitioned to aid the civil administration in assisting citizens in distress. On day 48 of the lockdown, the government issued instructions to the states not to let migrants walk home. Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, in an interview to this newspaper last month, said the coronavirus chain had to be broken by April 14 through the lockdown and social distancing, adding that the “military is totally prepared to meet up to the demands made by government and people”.The question was prompted by two sad events: Endless columns of hungry and tired migrant workers with families trudging home and their inhuman treatment by the police; and a media briefing by the CDS and three service chiefs where it was expected he would announce some major humanitarian intervention by the military. Instead, he narrated events that the three services would conduct to commemorate coronavirus warriors. After their appearance, veterans expressed dismay and rebuke. Given the unprecedented cuts underway in the defence budget, the countrywide flights of transport and fighter aircraft and helicopters and lighting up warships was expenditure better invested in providing succour to migrants. The visibility of the Army would have been a balm for distressed migrants.Following the nullification of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir, the surgical ground and airstrikes and Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s warning of Indian false flag operations, the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government has chosen to keep its powder dry. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said recently that he would not call in the Army as it is guarding the borders. But other than those deployed, sufficient forces are available for mitigating the humanitarian crisis. The Army has a strategic surplus of 8,000-10,000 personnel earmarked for United Nations Peacekeeping and deployable formations in peacetime. Should the armed forces have been deployed? The answer is a resounding yes. The country is confronted with an unprecedented human security challenge. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has made saving lives and livelihoods, in that order, the national objective. In 2003, at an international security conference at Berlin, then deputy national security adviser, Satish Chandra, presented an elaborate paper on pandemics. Some contingency planning was done in the National Security Council and operational directorates of the armed forces. According to statistics with the defence archives, after Partition, India has faced 529 national disasters till 2017 with 200,000 deaths. The military played a key role in rescue and relief operations. The spotlight, so far, has been on the director-general of the Armed Forces Medical Services who dedicated large portions of his medical resources and services to civilian administration across the country, including establishing quarantine camps and coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-only hospitals. Ordnance factories have belatedly been ordered to produce medical equipment, including ventilators and personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and other material. Naval warships have evacuated diaspora from the neighbourhood and for the first time charged $40 — certainly bad optics for civil-military relations. The Indian Air Force has flown medical teams and stores to many foreign countries. The armed forces in the neighbourhood are involved in helping State authorities in dealing with the pandemic. In Sri Lanka, the National Operations Centre for Management of the Covid Outbreak is under the CDS. In south and southeast Asia, the military is assisting the State in handling the pandemic. Has the military become a holy cow in India? Especially when, for the first time, the military response mechanism has been catalysed with the appointment of a CDS and a powerful department of military affairs. The armed forces have the capacity, staying power and discipline to assist the State in weathering this storm in several ways. In mobilising national and state capacities, the military will act as a force multiplier. People, including the CDS, were hoping the first lockdown would contain the virus but uncertainty prevails. The pandemic is expected to peak in June-July with the likelihood of a second and third spike. The Army should be immediately directed to establish a task force for Organisation and Management of Safe and Secure Movement of Migrants and remain on standby for emergency missions. Every state is networked with Army formations in a location with Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) on aid to the civilian authority. While remaining sanitised, the military must be more optimally utilised in this national humanitarian crisis. That will be reason enough to ring bells and shower petals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/use-the-armed-forces-in-dealing-with-the-crisis/story-hhdLJAy4jcTJXYJXd12MQN.html
24-05-2020||News||China’s tactical play in Ladakh isn’t just about the boundary||In the wake of the economic slowdown owing to the Covid-19 pandemic in China, paramount leader Xi Jinping and the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) are facing one of the biggest crises since the party came to power in 1949. The challenges before the party and the leader are being deliberated since May 22 at the National People’s Congress and a parallel Chinese People’s Consultative Conference, the most powerful political advisory body in the country. The move is already on to pre-emptively counter any dissatisfaction in handling the pandemic and the consequent surge in economic distress. While there is no political challenge to President Xi, who is also the Chairman of the Central Military Commission, it is the economic collapse that Beijing fears coupled with growing resentment against China, fuelling nationalism and the kindling of old Chinese fears against foreign threats.While the NPC was called to deliberate on the next five-year development plan, the session will also provide a platform to President Xi to respond both domestically and internationally to the pandemic. The expected message will be conciliatory to the domestic audience, while the international assertion can be expected to be robust and defiant.It is in this context that the current stand-off between India and China at multiple points along the 3,488 kilometre Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh and Sikkim should be seen. The Chinese move is multi-pronged as it not only diverts attention from the domestic economic crisis, Hong Kong and Taiwan, but is also engineered to paint India as a villain constantly at odds with Pakistan and more recently, Nepal. With China believing that India is catalyzing resentment against Beijing over poor handling of the pandemic that originated in Wuhan, the People’s Liberation Army’s tactical play along the LAC is also seen by its people as teaching a lesson to the “Gweilo Club” and its perceived proxies. The use of party tabloid Global Times to paint India as an aggressor in Sikkim and Ladakh also is designed to force India to reassess its strategy of perceived alignment with the US against China.Even though the PLA is using a 1960 map released by then Premier Chou En Lai to present the cartographic expansion in Ladakh, there is little resemblance of the ground situation to either 1962 skirmishes or 1999 incursions in Kargil sector. The only coincidence is that President Xi may use the Ladakh military option to divert attention of his domestic audience, just as the then Chinese leader Mao Zedong used the 1962 skirmish to cover the massive Chinese famine due to failure of the Great Leap Forward revolution. Another Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping used the 1979 border war with Vietnam to divert internal dissatisfaction before embarking on economic recovery of the middle kingdom. While Ladakh may tactically serve the political objectives of Beijing, India under Prime Minister Narendra Modi is no pushover. It is the third largest market after the US and ASEAN, and could even be the key to economic revival of China. Militarily, it serves neither the interest of China nor India to raise the red flag as there will be huge economic and political costs to such a move. Pakistan and Nepal don’t add up to cost-benefit analysis. And the Doklam stand-off message did not exactly work with Bhutan in 2017.The fact is after the construction of strategic Darbuk-Shyok-DBO road in eastern Ladakh and rapid construction of strategic roads in both the middle and eastern sector, it is China that is concerned about India’s military objectives. At present, both sides are matching on the ground, whether it is Galwan valley or Pangong Tso lake and are constantly talking to each other through institutionalised diplomatic and military channels. With the LAC being undefined by nature at least in the western and eastern sector, the option of emphasizing its own cartographic interpretation is also available to the Indian Army.Even though China is playing to its long-term plan to use the LAC to destabilise India, Delhi does need to get its act together when it comes to Beijing as any conciliatory move with the best of intentions will be viewed as a sign of weakness. Rather than leave it to its military or diplomatic commanders, the two leaders need to have a candid conversation on the lines of the Wuhan or Mahabalipuram dialogue to carry out course corrections and take the bilateral relationship beyond third party suspicions. This may sound simple but is terribly complex as another challenge is looming on the horizon with Tibetan leader in exile Dalai Lama, now 84 years old, and still without a designated reincarnation. The Dalai Lama’s nomination of Panchen Lama, the second most important priest after Dalai, is now 31 and still under the Chinese Communist Party’s tutelage since he went missing on May 17, 1995. Given the scale of problems involved and its impact on sovereignty of both the countries, the only option left is for PM Narendra Modi and President Xi Jinping to keep communication channels open 24 X 7. Because the NPC may get over on 28 May but China’s bilateral troubles with India won’t.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/china-s-tactical-play-in-ladakh-isn-t-just-about-the-boundary-analysis/story-aJy8XQDURYzT6nN70GsxzK.html
24-05-2020||News||The migrant worker crisis needs a multipronged response||The images of migrant labourers’ trudging home, some on top of trucks or walking barefoot, with women and children in tow, have shaken the nation’s conscience. Tragic accidents with injuries and loss of life have evoked sympathy. However, the images of the Narendra Modi government’s Operation Shramik Express, which has helped over four million migrants return home by buses and special trains, is reassuring.In India, migrant labour are woven into the waft and weft of the economic fabric. It is a measure of the national economic integration as also of regional and rural-urban disparities that force migrants from weaker states to go to metros and other states in search of livelihood. They contribute to the prosperity of their home and destination states, while empowering themselves.The sudden and unavoidable coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related lockdown threatens to unravel this fabric. The fragility of the migrant worker-based productive capacities stands exposed. Of the 40 million migrant labourers affected, the blue-collar – the informal sector – workers are the face of multidimensional poverty, inequality and unrealised demographic dividend. Their mass exodus from host states has created a humanitarian and health security challenge and an unprecedented logistical nightmare.It complicates the government’s attempts to stem the contagion. It poses a longer-term risk of labour dislocation and atrophy. It has already impacted post-lockdown economic activities announced under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan.The Opposition parties have both stoked and used migrant workers’ conundrum to critique the government’s Covid-19 strategy. As concerned stakeholders, they must recognise the gravity of the calamity and the enormity of the response it requires. Modi, on his part, is driving India’s stupendous response to the crisis in the spirit of cooperative and consultative federalism of antyodaya, with empathy for the predicament of the poor, including the pravasi shramiks (migrant labourers).A highly infectious and novel virus, Covid-19 has pushed the state and central governments into the uncharted policy and action territory, without the availability of any vaccine or treatment. Unlike China, which militarily enforced the lockdown of a similar scale and scope, doing so in a democracy like India – a socially and federally diverse, but economically weak country – poses a unique challenge. The migrant crisis is emblematic of this, and needs special initiatives.States are empowered to decide on the extension and enforcement of the lockdown, and are responsible for providing migrants relief in situ. The Centre, therefore, had to persuade states to agree to the mass transportation of workers with attendant risks of contagion. Some chief ministers have been proactive, while others are hesitant and unprepared. For instant impact during disasters, a Centre-state protocol must be established. It is equally important to collect and update comprehensive migrant worker-related data and statistics, going beyond the 10-year Census exercise – categorising them into skill, sector and gender at the state and national level. Its absence has blindsided us on the scale of the migrant labour challenge and frustrated efforts to reach them to help with food, cash transfers, health services, shelter or relocation to home/host states.The other side of the coin is the information asymmetry poor migrants faced. Many were unable to access information on the relief, benefit and transport provided by various governments. Many became prey to disinformation, unscrupulous touts, and motivated panic-mongers. Establishing well-functioning hotlines, building outreach systems, and providing low-cost smartphones and IT education are crucial.Many migrant workers left cities due to the fear of disease and stigma, evictions by landlords, confinement in congested conditions, job losses, income and food insecurity and the psychological impulse to be with their families. Yet, many continued to stay in cities due to pull factors of better wages, jobs, prospects of better economic and upward social mobility. To allow workers to exercise real choices, India must maximise the development of all the states in a sustainable manner.The challenge migrant workers face on return to home states includes resistance from their communities fearing infection and a lack of income and employment. As economic activities rekindle, many workers have already started moving back. Governments should provide for their sustenance, local employment and return to host states. Targeted and ecosystem support to migrant workers is a substantial chunk of the mega-economic revival and transformation package of Rs 20 lakh crore. An abhiyan or a movement for migrant workers’ welfare and empowerment must be driven in collaboration with state governments on a warfooting.It should: One, ramp up and prioritise direct and short-term food, cash, shelter and health support. Two, fast track the implementation measures on local infrastructure and supply chains, technology diffusion, liquidity, employment, income and entrepreneurship generation. Three, synergistically implement measures to support other vulnerable groups and micro, small and medium enterprises. Four, ensure migrant workers’ wellbeing and utilisation of their potential.In this moment of creative destruction, migrant workers’ wellbeing and unleashing the Ganga of their potential is vital to our survival and India’s economic rebirth.Lakshmi Puri is a former assistant secretary general, United Nations, former deputy executive director of UN Women, and former acting deputy secretary general of UNCTADThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-migrant-worker-crisis-needs-a-multipronged-response/story-NRCjV7PFFnjJTqlOpi8bYJ.html
24-05-2020||Mumbai||State nod for ₹83-lakh plan to study tiger corridors in Dodamarg-Sawantwadi belt||Eighteen months after it was first proposed, the Maharashtra forest department has issued the final approval to the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun, to assess whether the Dodamarg-Swantwadi talukas of Sindhudurg district are wildlife corridors that need to be conserved.WII will also be tasked with mapping the exact boundaries of the proposed eco-sensitive area (ESA) around the 38kmx10km wildlife corridor based on a 2013 Bombay high court (HC) order that had directed the state to declare the area an ESA, where mining and red category industries are restricted. WII’s study will span 18 months, with data collection over three seasons. The corridor connects Radhanagari Wildlife Sanctuary in Kolhapur in Maharashtra to Bhimgad Wildlife Sanctuary in Karnataka. The corridor is currently threatened by mining projects.The state chief wildlife warden said the total grant for the proposal was ₹83 lakh, and the study is expected to commence soon. “We have recently issued the final sanction for this project wherein WII will be identifying the potential corridors for the movement of elephants and tigers in this region,” said Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), Maharashtra. “Though the project was proposed in December 2018, issues related to funding, expanding the scope of work, and sanctioning the revised proposal led to the delay. Of the ₹83 lakh, we have already paid ₹58 lakh for the project. The recruitment process is underway but due to the lockdown, there are some more delays,” he said.Bilal Habib, scientist, WII said the project is expected to begin by May-end. “We will be deputing two scientists. They will map the corridor and check whether villages in these two talukas are falling within the corridor or not, and thus whether they need to be declared as a part of the ESA. We will also be assessing the human disturbances to this corridor,” he said.The approval comes at a time when environmentalists are upset with the state for leaving out the entire Dodamarg taluka and nine of 13 villages from Sawantwadi taluka from the final Western Ghats ESA declaration.The 2013 HC order was based on a petition by Awaaz Foundation. “The current pandemic, which arose from the unnatural proximity of humans with wildlife as a direct consequence of the destruction of forests, is a testimony for the need to preserve our natural areas,” said Sumaira Abdulali, convener, Awaaz Foundation.Another petition by environment group Vanashakti from 2016 seeking enforcement of the previous order across the entire Sawantwadi taluka led to an order by the HC declaring the entire belt as a ‘no tree felling zone’. However, a 2019 study by Vanashakti, using satellite maps, recorded the destruction of forests across 1,600 acres at 103 locations in the corridor.“Such studies [WII’s latest proposal] serve very little purpose in areas where a recorded history of wildlife exists and the forest department is paying compensation to locals due to wildlife-related damages. This expensive academic study will be futile as all evidence is already available,” said Stalin D, director, Vanashakti. Both petitions highlighted that the corridor is home to tigers, leopards, elephants, sloth bears, civets, pangolins, several resident and migratory bird species, and even the Indian giant squirrel, Maharashtra’s state animal. The forest department confirmed that over the past five years, transient movement of close to 25 tigers has been observed at the corridor while an elephant family of five resides there.WHY THE FORESTS ARE IMPORTANT?The Dodamarg-Sawantwadi belt lies in the heart of the biodiversity hotspot, the Western GhatsThe area is a source of perennial water bodiesIt is an integral part of the Sahyadri-Konkan wildlife corridor through which several wild animals such as the Asiatic elephant and the critically endangered tiger moveIt is also home to the endemic Malabar giant squirrel, and globally-threatened species of flora and fauna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-nod-for-83-lakh-plan-to-study-tiger-corridors-in-dodamarg-sawantwadi-belt/story-SNSpvY0Itk6fx4i9PCvqOO.html
24-05-2020||Mumbai||Two arrested for snatching gold chain from senior citizen||Amboli police on Sunday arrested two chain snatchers for snatching gold chain of a senior citizen at Shashtrinagar Andheri (West) amid lockdown. The arrested accused are Imran Aslam Vagu, 29, and Juber Aslam Vagu, 35, both residents of Naupada, Bandra (East). The police are now looking for their boss.According to the police, the incident occurred on Saturday around 6.30am when the 60-year-old woman was on her way to purchase milk and the three accused, who were riding a bike, snatched her chain.A police officer said, “The woman approached police station and we recorded her statement. We registered a first information report (FIR) against the accused under sections 392 (robbery), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.”Someshwar Kamthe, senior inspector, said,” with the help of CCTV camera footage and technical analysis we captured the accused from Bandra and we are investigating the matter.”Sources said both arrested accused are habitual offenders with more than five theft cases against each of them. The third accused has more than 20 cases registered against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-arrested-for-snatching-gold-chain-from-senior-citizen/story-JJnV09OGairjZdqeWIEiMK.html
24-05-2020||City||Woman kills self, cops register case against husband, in-laws||After a 27-year-old woman killed herself in Bhiwandi on May 18, the police registered a case against her husband and one of her family members for harassment on accounts of dowry on Saturday. This is the second such case of a woman killing herself owing to harassment by family in Thane commissionarate in the past one month.According Bhiwandi City police, the deceased killed herself inside her room on May 18 when she was alone. She had allegedly mentioned about the torture she was facing to her sister and parents. Police officers said, “We had initially registered an accidental death report because she had only mentioned names of people she held responsible for her death in her suicide note. Later, upon investigation, we found from her family members that her husband and in-laws behaved badly with her as she could not get pregnant even three years after her marriage. The in-laws allegedly also demanded more dowry because of the same reason.”After collecting evidences and statements of more than 15 people including her family members and neighbours, Bhiwandi City police registered a case against three people — her 29-year-old husband, and her parent-in-laws who are 58 and 52 years of age — under sections 304B (dowry death) and 498 (detaining with criminal intent a married woman) of the Indian Penal Code.In a similar case, a 36-year-old woman took her own life on April 27 in Chitalsar area of Thane. After investigation by Manpada Chitalsar police, it has been found that her in-laws were harassing her for dowry. Police have registered a case against her in-laws and husband.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-kills-self-cops-register-case-against-husband-in-laws/story-bQsomI4pgBVTywi7CzJUIN.html
24-05-2020||City||20-year old from Nashik detained by ATS for demanding release of man accused of bomb threat against UP CM||Mumbai The Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS) detained 20-year-old Sayyad Mohammad Faisal Abdul Wahab from Nashik on Sunday for allegedly sending a message on the Uttar Pradesh (UP) Police’s WhatsApp number, in which he demanded that the police release 25-year old Kamran Amin Khan or face consequences.Khan was arrested by ATS from Chunabhatti on Saturday after he sent a message to the UP Police in which he threatened to kill the state’s chief minister Yogi Adityanath “with a bomb”. Khan was produced in the holiday court and following transit remand, he was handed over to UP Police for further inquiry.UP Police on Sunday received another threatening message in which the sender demanded the release of Khan. The police alerted the Maharashtra ATS and provided the sender’s details, following which the Nashik unit nabbed Wahab, a college student residing in Darusalam Colony near Madina Chowk.Wahab threatened that if the police did not release Khan, they would face consequences, said an ATS officer. The accused was taken to the ATS unit in Nashik for interrogation. Police are yet to confirm if Wahab and Khan knew each other.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/20-year-old-from-nashik-detained-by-ats-for-demanding-release-of-man-accused-of-bomb-threat-against-up-cm/story-QQAZcQ1salLQLwXw5l5CQK.html
24-05-2020||Mumbai||13 drones, 4,000 personnel to keep Eid festivities safe||The Mumbai Police has deployed 13 drones and an additional manpower of 4,000 personnel as part of its bandobast for Eid to ensure lockdown rules are not violated. “For Eid we have deployed around 4,000 extra people apart from the existing police station staff. The Central Armed Police Force (CAPF), State Reserve Police Force(SRPF), Quick Response Team (QRT), etc are also being deployed. We have given drones to all zones for aerial monitoring to ensure there is no gathering,” said Pranaya Ashok, DCP (ops) and Mumbai Police spokesperson. Last week, Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh and Ashok had appealed to people to celebrate Eid at home. They had also said that no permission was given for any religious activity to anyone and that action would be taken against any person found violating the rules.Covid-19 cases in city police cross 1K mark The number Covid-19 cases in Mumbai Police crossed the 1,000 mark with 1,004 personnel testing positive for the disease till Sunday night. Another 3,900-odd personnel from the Mumbai Police who were in close contact with the infected cops have been quarantined for 14 days.1.30 lakh vehicles fined ₹26.16 lakh since lockdownSince March 21, the Mumbai Police along with traffic police have fined 1,30,490 vehicles and seized 16,091 vehicles for violating lockdown norms. A total of ₹26,16,495 was collected as fines. Pranaya Ashok, DCP (ops), confirmed the development.“We are taking strict action against vehicles that are violating lockdown rules. No person is allowed to use vehicles unless it’s for transporting essential goods. If citizens want to buy essential goods they should walk to the stores; using vehicles for this purpose is not allowed. No autorickshaws or taxis are allowed to ply as well. Vehicles will be allowed to ply only for emergency. We will impound all vehicles found violating lockdown rules,” said Pravin Padwal, additional commissioner, traffic,. Of the 1.30 lakh vehicles fined, a majority of 1.10 lakh were noted by the traffic police. Of the vehicles that were seized, a majority of 18,274 cases are in the central region (Tardeo-Byculla-Ghatkopar-Wadala TT) which is the worst-affected area due to Covid-19 outbreak. 14,137 booked, 8.5K arrested for lockdown violationsThe Mumbai Police have registered a total of 6,979 FIRs against 14,137 people for lockdown violations and arrested 8,545 of them since March 20 till Saturday night. Of the 6,979 FIRs, a majority of 4,285 are for gathering in public place, followed by 2, 196 for not wearing masks, 1,167 for unnecessary use of vehicles, 389 against shops, hotels and pan shops for operating despite being non-essential services, and the remaining FIRs are against violating home quarantine orders and other lockdown violations. 3 people try to buy liquor online, duped Three Mumbai residents took to the Mumbai Police’s twitter handle to report how they were duped by cyber fraudsters while ordering liquor online. All three persons searched for number of wine shops on internet and made an advanced payment but did not receive liquor. The fraudsters had put up their own numbers on internet as that of wine shops to dupe people. 1.13L FIRs across state for lockdown violations A total of 1,13,893 FIRs were registered across Maharashtra for lockdown violations. Most of the cases were for gathering in public. A total of 22,794 people have been arrested. Around 248 FIRs were registered for assault/obstructing police from discharging duty, wherein 830 people have been arrested.As many as 69,567 vehicles have been seized for unnecessarily use in violation of lockdown rules and a total of ₹5.28 crore have been collected as fines. About 95,911 people from the state called the police helpline 100 asking for Covid-19 related updates.1,758 Covid-19 cases in state police A total of 1,758 police personnel from the state police tested positive for Covid-19. Of the infected, 1,575 are constables and 183 are officers. While 673 of the patients have recovered, 1,067 are undergoing treatment. There have also been 18 deaths in the state police force, of which 11 are from the Mumbai Police.(With inputs from Jayprakash S Naidu)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/13-drones-4-000-personnel-to-keep-eid-festivities-safe/story-XEdLywggMh6j1HiPHXWLBI.html
24-05-2020||City||Mohali man booked for negligence as wife dies in road mishap||A Nayagaon man has been booked for negligent driving after his 30-year-old wife died and their 18-month-old son sustained injuries in a road accident near Tira village in Mullanpur, the Mohali police said on Sunday.The victim has been identified as Firdosh. Police said she along with his her husband Shehnaz, aka Sonu, and son was travelling from Dadumajra to Tira village on Saturday evening, when their speeding sedan hit a pothole and overturned. Firdosh died on the spot. Sonu got severely injured while their son sustained minor injuries. They were admitted to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, where they are undergoing treatment. Based on the statement of Firshosh’s brother, Sonu has been booked under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-man-booked-for-negligence-as-wife-dies-in-road-mishap/story-0sbJi8JBxp6NTROkPQWSzJ.html
24-05-2020||City||Barbers open shop, but big salons remain closed in Panchkula||Small barber shops opened on Sunday, a day after the district administration allowed salons and parlours to resume business as part of easing of Covid-19 lockdown restrictions, but the response was mixed as prominent players remained closed.As deputy commissioner (DC) Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, through an official order, allowed shops to open from 9am to 6.30pm seven days a week with safety measures in place, most of the internal booth markets of Sectors 4, 7, 8, 11, 12, 15, 20 and 21 and a few prominent salons resumed business.Some hairdressers remained closed for Eid.At the Sector 11 rehri market, barbers wore personal protection equipment (PEE) kits, face masks, gloves and sanitised equipment. Only two to three customers allowed in at a time. Satyam Thakur, a hairdresser, said, “We have opened up and are meticulously following all the instructions issued by the authorities, as our safety as well as that of our customers is a priority. Waiting is not allowed and we are only allowing appointments.”Hairdressers in other markets were also seen wearing aprons, masks and gloves.However, other prominent salons in Sectors 8 and 9 remained closed.On restarting business, Vidit Khosla, owner of Wateva Salons in sectors 7 and 10 said, “We will resume services from Tuesday as our premises are being sanitised and cleaned as they were closed for over two months. The staff will also be trained according to safety measures issued by the authorities. Customers will have to take appointments.”Parveen Singh, manager at Looks Salon in Sector 9, which had, however, opened, said, “A number of people visited today, but it was not the same in comparison to the rush on Sundays that we experienced earlier. People are still careful and are not stepping out of home.”Most of the hairdressers said people who earlier preferred premium treatments were only opting for haircuts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/barbers-open-shop-but-big-salons-remain-closed-in-panchkula/story-2tJlvbWirDvDGBckjMma7H.html
24-05-2020||Mumbai||Excluding villages from new Western Ghats ESA proposal, opening them up for mining, industries to be disastrous for environment: RS MP||The Maharashtra government’s proposal to exclude previously identified villages in its final Western Ghats eco-sensitive area (ESA) notification and open them up for industrial and mining activities has received objections from Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament (MP) Chhatrapati Sambhaji Raje.Calling for a ban on mining activities across Kolhapur and the Sahyadri range in the ghats, the MP had on May 21 written to chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray and Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar to reconsider the setting up red category industries in ESAs in the region, which includes a tiger reserve.“I request you to ensure that grant of permission for increase industrialisation, mining, and infrastructure development in ESA’s of Kolhapur in particular and Sahyadri Western Ghats is shelved. Both Madhav Gadgil and committee chaired by K Kasturirangan warned against the destruction of the Western Ghats,” read Raje’s letter.While speaking to HT, Raje, the heir to the Kolhapur royal family and a descendant of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, said that opening up areas for mining and industries will destroy its ecological value and expose its nearby zones to natural disasters. “The entire Western Ghats holds historical significance, with the Kolhapur and Sahyadri range having huge heritage value from the time of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. It needs to be protected and preserved as a World Heritage Site as designated by the United Nations. The state should support green and sustainable industries such as solar and wind, give employment to local communities and refrain from environmentally damaging proposals,” he said.Meanwhile, state forest minister Sanjay Rathod said that the final deliberations on the proposal were still underway.“We have studied specific details of the proposal and the environment ministry is yet to give the final nod. A report will be submitted to the CM’s office soon based on follow up meetings we have had. Final discussions on the subject will take place in the coming days based on the CM’s suggestions on the report,” said Rathod.On Thursday, the state had proposed the inclusion of 2,092 of 2,133 villages or 15,359 sq km of the originally proposed 17,340 sq km, thereby excluding 11.4% area from the draft Western Ghats ESA, and leaving out crucial wildlife corridors, buffer areas of tiger reserves and sanctuaries. The state proposed exclusion of 17 villages for industrial activities and 13 for mining based on suggestions from the industries department and mining bodies.The Savarde village, which lies in the core zone of the Radhanagri Wildlife Sanctuary in Kolhapur, the Maloshi and Bamnoli villages in Koyna Wildlife Sanctuary in Satara, and the Yelan Gai village which was earlier marked as a mining village in the buffer area of the Sahayadri Tiger Reserve, are some of the villages that have been excluded.Raje said that last year in August, 56 people died owing to floods in western Maharashtra, while 4.09 lakh people were affected across 386 villages in Kolhapur district alone. “If ecological destruction is allowed to continue, such catastrophes will only increase,” said the MP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/excluding-villages-from-new-western-ghats-esa-proposal-opening-them-up-for-mining-industries-to-be-disastrous-for-environment-rs-mp/story-E0HXkpNKnbprpofb04qrOO.html
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||Moose Wala case: Four suspended cops file for anticipatory bail||Four suspended policemen accused of helping singer Sidhu Moose Wala as he allegedly fired from his personal rifle at Ladda Kothi shooting range on Sangrur-Dhuri road, around 6km from the city, on May 4 have filed for anticipatory bail. A video of the incident had gone viral on social media and three ASIs were among six cops suspended. Sumeer Fatta, counsel for the accused, said that the application was filed in the court of additional sessions judge Poonam Bansal, with the next date of hearing fixed at May 26. He added that the court had sent a notice to the state on Saturday. “My clients, constables Harwinder Singh and Jasveer Singh, head constable Gurjinder Singh, and ASI Balkar Singh, had only followed the orders of seniors and the DSP, who sent them to the shooting range,” Fatta claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/moose-wala-case-four-suspended-cops-file-for-anticipatory-bail/story-hlfvPWok8OCMSiPXfGiXAK.html
24-05-2020||City||12 flights to resume from Patna airport today||PATNA: After almost two months of suspension of air operations due to Covid-19 induced lockdown, 12 flights from Patna’s Jay Prakash Narayan International Airport will be operational from Monday.Indigo , Spice Jet and Air India will be resuming their flights from Patna Airport to Mumbai, Delhi and Bangalore.In total 16 flight landings and take offs have been permitted to operate from May 25. However, GoAir has not started the booking as it is seeking clarifications from states about the readiness of airports with regard to arrival of flights and the guidelines for passengers entering their respective states.“On receiving clarity, GoAir wll open its site for booking from May 25 till May 31,” a statement from the private airline said.More importantly, the uncertainty over flights coming from Mumbai to Patna got a bit clear on Sunday evening after the Maharashtra government allowed 25 landings and take offs from the commercial capital city after much deliberations on the issue due to the rise in number of Covid-19 cases in the state. The first flight to arrive Patna on Monday would be from Mumbai. “ The Indigo flight would reach here in the morning. There is no information of any re scheduling,” said a senior officer of the airline.Patna airport director BCH Negi said that arrangements have been made for handling any symptomatic passenger. “ There is no quarantine requirement for passengers arriving to Patna. All passengers would undergo temperature check before entering the terminal and also thermal screening would be done of passengers on arrival. Emphasis is on contactless travel, maintaining social distance and sanitisation. All airlines have prepared their staff for following the new guidelines issued by the ministry of civil aviation.” On Sunday, the Patna airport authorities and district administration officials made inspections for resumption of air travel. The passengers will have to arrive four hours before the flight and baggage checking counters of all airlines will be closed one hour before the flight departure . It will be mandatory for the passengers to have Aarogya Setu app downloaded in their mobile phones and masks, gloves are mandatory. Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Agarwal has given detailed instructions to the airport director BCH Negi to ensure that social distancing norms are followed. “ The air ticket of passengers would be treated as a vehicle pass from their homes to the airport. Besides, there will be adequate number of cabs, e-rickshaws , autos at the airport premises for ferrying passengers back home,” said Agarwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/12-flights-to-resume-from-patna-airport-today/story-MMdYqHRntO9CMckoLvn9ML.html
24-05-2020||Delhi||Not much to celebrate for residents of shelter homes, red zones||For stranded migrant workers and people living in containment zones, Eid preparations have been limited to making do with essentials as the lockdown to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic has dampened the fervour of the festival.Some migrants are dependent on government and NGOs for food to observe the festive traditions, while others have borrowed money from friends and relatives to buy sweetmeats.Mohammad Yusuf, 32, resident of a shelter home in central Delhi, who could not register for a Shramik Special train, said that this would be the first time that he is not celebrating Eid at home. “Every year, I would get my children new clothes and gifts for the festival. They have been waiting for me to reach home, but my registration has still not been done. What does the festival mean without family and friends? Here, we get some food to live by. I have run out of money to get them anything at all when I do go back,” said Yusuf, who used to work at a toy-making unit in Sadar Bazar.He had left his rented room to head back to his village in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur and when he could not get on a bus, was brought to the shelter by civil defence volunteers.According to the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) officials, the number of migrants at the shelters has reduced to just about 10-15% since the Shramik Special trains started on May 1. “The NGOs roped in to run the shelters have been providing a basket of fruit and cold drinks for ‘iftar’, for those fasting during Ramzan. They will also be distributing sweets and dry snacks on Eid, on Monday,” said a senior DUSIB official, on the condition of anonymity.The official said that the DUSIB runs 223 permanent shelters for the homeless, while the Delhi government had converted 256 school buildings to house migrants.Among those stranded, at south Delhi’s Shahpur Jat, is a group of around 1,000 hand embroidery from West Bengal. “Earlier, we were waiting for our turn for train registration and now, the trains have been cancelled because of the cyclone. There is no money to even buy fruits or milk for children. Every year, we would buy new clothes, but this is the first time that there is no such thing for Eid. We make do with rice and lentils every day,” said Mafizul Mallick, of the group.Abdul Salaam, the president, Centre for Holistic Development, an NGO working for the homeless, said, “People have been out of work and have run out of savings. They had hoped to return home, but have been stuck. We will be distributing ‘sevaiyan’ (a vermicelli-based dessert) and food for the workers here so that they at least have something to celebrate.”In Delhi’s 87 containment zones, especially in central, east, northeast and south-east districts that house a sizeable Muslim population, the festivities will be limited to the households.Prominent markets at Sadar Bazar, Nabi Karim, Chandni Mahal and Bara Hindu Rao, which are generally abuzz with activity during Ramzan, have been deserted this year.Anwar Ullah, general secretary Chandni Mahal residents’ welfare association, said, “The lanes are empty, there is no sound. It doesn’t feel like its Eid tomorrow. The sweets shops have not been opened. We have got ‘sevaiyan’ to cook but don’t know if other snacks will be available tomorrow. It has been really tough on the children.”Nizamuddin Basti, located just behind the Hazrat Nizamuddin dargah, which used to be a hub of activity during the festival has been locked down for almost two months, after the Tablighi Jamaat-related cases emerged. Abdur Rahman, general secretary of the Basti’s RWA, said, “There are not even enough lights put up for decorations in a place that dazzled not just during Eid, but throughout the year. The lanes used to be full of people shopping and gathering to exchange greetings in the days leading to the festival. The lockdown has been the longest for us. Even though there has been no new positive case, the area has not been opened. We have procured food and other decorative material for houses from Bhogal. That is all we can do now.”Ali Rehman, 32, who owns a garments store in Vivek Vihar, which is part of a containment zone, said there is little to celebrate due to the losses suffered during the lockdown. “For small-scale businessmen, there has been no reprieve. Many people have lost their jobs. I have never seen such calm around the festival. Since we cannot go even to the masjids, which have been closed, or to relatives’ houses, we will just cook and pray at home,” he said.In southeast Delhi’s Zakir Nagar, home to a large number of Muslims, Irshad Alam, who owns a footwear store, said that the usual fervour is missing due to safety concerns on people’s minds. “Even if one wishes to, there is so much apprehension that one wouldn’t go out to meet their relatives. Being in a confined area, that is not even a prospect. It’s like celebrating Eid inside a prison-like complex,” said Alam.In nearby containment zones of Shaheen Bagh and Okhla too, people said safety is first and that they can celebrate Eid next year once the country emerges from the shadow of this pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/not-much-to-celebrate-for-residents-of-shelter-homes-red-zones/story-WxTbYqm48f0B987wDAzt7O.html
24-05-2020||Mumbai||MMRC to build Covid care facilities in Dahisar and Borivli||Two more Covid care facilities will soon come up in the city. The Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC) is constructing an isolation facility with 800 beds (which includes 200 oxygenated beds) at the Dahisar check naka and 250-bed high dependency units and intensive care units with dialysis facilities at Kanderpada, near Borivili RTO office. An official from MMRC said that the work, which started a couple of days back, is being undertaken on a war-footing and is expected to be completed in the next two weeks. The state government has asked various agencies to build isolation and quarantine facilities to ramp up health infrastructure in the city. Recently, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) constructed a 1,023-bed facility for non-critical patients at the Bandra Kurla Complex grounds. MMRC is constructing the underground 33.5 km Colaba-Bandra-Seepz metro corridor in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mmrc-to-build-covid-care-facilities-in-dahisar-and-borivli/story-Z1VnKthwvdXBRYmIY2F5zI.html
24-05-2020||Patna||Bihar’s death toll rises to 13, Covid-19 cases up to 2,574||Bihar reported 13th death on Sunday, even as the Covid-19 positive cases continued to rise in the state. While the count of positive cases peaked to 2,511, the highest number of positive cases in last 24 hours was reported from Katihar, from where a sizeable chunk of population migrate to different parts of the country in search of work.Since the arrival of migrant labourers in the state by train on May 3, 1,599 of them have tested positive for Covid-19, of which the highest of 392 has been from those who returned from Delhi. The migrants now account for 63.67% of the state’s total Covid-19 cases, said a health department official, adding till Sunday 63,741 samples had been tested.Health department officials said the 60-year-old person from Majhauli in Siwan, who breathed his last at the NMCH on Sunday morning, was admitted to the hospital on May 22 after he complained of cough, fever and breathing problem.Nodal officer NMCH, Dr Ajay Kumar Sinha, said the patient had a medical history of chronic pulmonary disease, diabetes and renal failure.Another doctor of NMCH, Dr Mukul Kumar, said the patient was referred from sadar hospital, Siwan after he complained of breathing problem. “His condition was poor when he was brought to the NMCH for treatment, which further deteriorated on Sunday morning, after which he died. He had come to his village in Siwan from Kolkata on May 20,” he said.Dr Kumar said four persons, including a one-month-old baby were discharged after they tested negative. So far, 702 people have recovered in Bihar.Health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said the person from Siwan, who died at NMCH had tested positive on TrueNat machine, however, the officials were getting the confirmatory test done.He said the 12th death of a person from Saran was reported on Saturday after he died at the PMCH. “However, the confirmation of his testing positive came on Sunday,” he added.Of the 11 deaths earlier, two deaths each were reported from Patna, Khagaria and Vaishali, besides 1 each from Munger, Rohtas, Begusarai, East Champaran and Sitamarhi.Health department officials in a press briefing here on Sunday said altogether 180 people had tested positive in last 24 hours. In Katihar, 38 positive cases were found, while 26 was reported from Barsoi, Kursela (8), one each from Masahi, Katihar Sadar, Ahmedabad and Bhimnagar.In Banka 13 tested positive, Rohtas (11), Begusarai (9), which included a 28-year-old male prisoner of Begusarai district jail, Purnia (7), 6 each in Munger and Bhagalpur, 4 in Samastipur, 3 each in Kaimur, Shiekhpura, Gopalganj and Madhubani, 2 each in Aurangabad, Nalanda and Khagaria besides 1 each in Arwal, Jehanabad, Nawada, Jamui and Lakhisarai.Meanwhile, Begusarai jail superintendent Brijesh Singh Mehta said the patient has not been identified yet. “After a computer operator was found positive a few days back, as a precautionary measure we kept those prisoners in a separate quarantine centre, who came in contact with him and later their swab samples were sent for test,” he said.IPRD secretary Anupam Kumar, in his briefing said that till May 23, 11.72 lakh migrants had arrived in state by 805 trains. “On Sunday, another 1.73 lakh people came by 105 trains and in next 3-4 days, another 7.85 lakh migrants will reach Bihar by 476 trains. On Monday, 1.93 lakh migrants will reach state by 118 trains,” he said.He said till date 133 disaster relief camps were running in the state in which 45,000 people were staying whereas the number of block quarantine centres had gone up to 15,036 in which 10.56 lakh migrants were putting up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-s-death-toll-rises-to-13-covid-19-cases-up-to-2-574/story-6JginVMbkyk5oaEvnPHBdJ.html
24-05-2020||City||Father kills daughter with hammer in Virar||Arnala Coastal police have arrested a 54-year-old man for allegedly killing his 20-year-old daughter at their residence in Tirupati Nagar on Saturday. The accused Dattaram Chamaran Joshi was produced before the Vasai court on Sunday and is remanded in police custody for a week.Joshi had an argument with his daughter Aakansha in the presence of his wife and elder son. Joshi in a fit of rage, pulled out a hammer and hit her on the head several times. Aakansha was rushed to the hospital by the neighbours, but she died on the way, said senior inspector Mahesh Shetye. The cause of the murder has not been ascertained. Joshi is showing no signs of remorse neither is he co-operating with poilce, said Shetye. The body has been sent for post-mortem and its report is awaited. He has been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code,||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/father-kills-daughter-with-hammer-in-virar/story-DQiEAACrDeRWecMaM0fJoO.html
24-05-2020||Patna||Pvt firms failed workers from Bihar: Nitish||Bihar Chief minister Nitish Kumar Sunday accused private sector companies of failing to live up to their responsibility of taking care of people from the state engaged in their factories.During a video conference with migrant workers, serving mandatory quarantine period at government facilities, the CM said, “Private companies, located outside the state, have failed to care of their workers despite their responsibility to do so.”“People have suffered a lot. It is my wish to have adequate work for everyone here. I do not want people to go outside unless there is a compelling reason,” he said during his interaction with the quarantined workers, his third in as many days and his last. Faced with a reverse migration on an unprecedented scale, Kumar sought to reassure returnees of employment. “Opportunities are in place for involving people returning in activities and work suited to their skill profile,” he said. “At least one thing is sure. Nobody dies of hunger in Bihar,” the CM said. He said the textile industry in Munger and Bhagalpur, particularly silk production, has huge potential. “Silk produced here has a worldwide demand. It is time to get down to tap its export potential further and involve more people in ramping up capacities,” he said, asking officials to start working on it.Kumar said industries which could be scaled up, including leather goods, shoes, furniture, bicycles, among others, had a pent-up domestic demand in addition to the locational advantage offered by the consumer state to act as a supplier of surplus production to adjoining states and areas.“We must align our production capabilities with the market need, and efforts must be made to encourage entrepreneurs to set up factories for meeting the demand thrown up by market,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/pvt-firms-failed-workers-from-bihar-nitish/story-kykJicurTrzKUbL8iOrMmJ.html
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||Break silence on seed scam: SAD to Punjab CM||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Sunday urged chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to break his silence and direct the state police to act against the perpetrators of the seed scam busted by the state agriculture department under which spurious paddy seeds of breeder varieties were sold to farmers at highly inflated rates. In a statement here, former minister Daljit Singh Cheema said even though an FIR was registered in this connection on May 11 and paddy breeder seeds of PR-128 and PR-129 were seized from a seed store in Ludhiana, no follow-up action has been taken in the matter till now. “It seems the police have adopted a ‘go slow’ policy and have not made any arrests in the case after it came to light that the breeder seed producer who supplied the seed to the Ludhiana store enjoyed the patronage of cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa,” alleged Cheema. The SAD leader said since the CM held the agriculture portfolio, it was incumbent upon him to pass orders to ensure that the interests of the farming community were not compromised in any manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/break-silence-on-seed-scam-sad-to-punjab-cm/story-K3NczCRZ0wvhFdpEGLYp3K.html
24-05-2020||City||7 of Kalyan family test Covid positive||Seven of a family, including a three-month-old baby, tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday.A three-year-old boy and a two-year-old boy are among the family members who have been infected. They live in a chawl at Anandwadi in Kalyan (East).As per the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC), a 52-year-old man, who works in a government staff in Thane, used to travel daily. He got infected and was tested positive on May 22. His 49-year-old wife, three sons and three grandchildren also got infected.“He used to travel to Thane for field work. He tested positive and seven members of his family also got infected. His daughter, who is pregnant, has tested negative to the infection,” said Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.The man is admitted in Holy Cross Covid hospital and the rest of the family in Tata Amantra quarantine centre.The area, where they live, was sealed earlier and is a containment zone as two cases had been reported, said KDMC officials. The area has around 2,500 houses.“Since it is a crowded place, we might have to quarantine the residents if they are found roaming outside. The civic body has initiated a survey in the locality,” added Patil.KDMC reported 46 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total number of positive cases to 773.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7-of-kalyan-family-test-covid-positive/story-V5C0KvXVy1j3BGkjpXuSoO.html
24-05-2020||City||Father-son duo electrocuted to death in Sangrur||A father-son duo was electrocuted to death after they came in contact with a live wire while washing walls of their house for renovation in Haripura area of the city on Sunday.The incident took place around 6am when Bachan Singh, 65, was preparing a wall for plaster. He got electric shock from an 11KV wire passing along their house and died on the spot. When his son Harpreet Singh, 35, rushed to save him, he was also electrocuted to death, police said.Meanwhile, a team of Punjab State Power Corporation Ltd (PSPCL) employees, led by sub-divisional officer (SDO-rural) Prem Garg, inspected the site and said that electric line existed there before the construction of the house.City police station SHO Gurbhajan Singh said the police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/father-son-duo-electrocuted-to-death-in-sangrur/story-ab93uVdMDsOutWJT3KFQQP.html
24-05-2020||City||Delhi: Seven, including health workers, their kin, attached to two Mehrauli clinics test positive||New Delhi At least seven healthcare workers and their family members associated with two South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) polyclinics in Mehrauli and Shahpur Jat have tested positive for the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease since May 19, officers said Sunday. Also, following this, as many as 35 healthcare workers at the Mehrauli centre were administered tests and put under quarantine at their homes. Their test results are awaited.Three of the seven who tested positive are doctors aged between 30 and 35 years. The first doctor, who treated patients in a primary health care (PHC) centre of the SDMC in Mehrauli, showed symptoms of Covid-19 and was tested on May 19. “His test results came back positive the same night, and later his wife and house help were also tested, and their reports came out positive. His four-year-old daughter has also been tested and her report is awaited. The doctor was admitted to the Cygnus Hospital earlier but because of the fire incident there, he was shifted to District Hospital Chhatarpur,” a senior official, who did not wish to be named, said.Thereafter, one more doctor, a clerk, two nurses, and one ECG technician at the same centre were tested on May 23 and their results came out positive on May 24. “This particular doctor is now admitted to the Safdarjung Hospital, while the others are in home-quarantine,” senior officers said. Meanwhile, one SDMC doctor, who served at various spots since the lockdown, including the IGI Airport screening centre, a mobile screening centre and a polyclinic in Shahpur Jat, was tested on May 22 and his report came out positive on May 23.“The Mehrauli centre is being thoroughly disinfected,” a senior SDMC officer said, requesting anonymity. So far, only one sanitation officer of the SDMC had tested positive for the coronavirus and died of the disease, in Bhogal area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-seven-including-health-workers-their-kin-attached-to-two-mehrauli-clinics-test-positive/story-w0G7M5sDkMgXxCISmzEroO.html
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||Khaira makes unity appeal to ‘like-minded leaders’||Punjab Ekta Party (PEP) president Sukhpal Singh Khaira on Sunday appealed to Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state president Bhagwant Mann, Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) MLA Simarjit Singh Bains and other “like-minded leaders” to unite to rescue Punjab.Khaira made the appeal through posts on Twitter after eminent agriculture economist Dr Sardara Singh Johl, while praising these leaders in an interview, ruled out the possibility of their coming together to provide a third alternative. “I am willing to unconditionally unite with like-minded leaders of Punjab without any position...I urge @sherryontopp @BhatwantMann @simarjeet_bains to listen to this eminent farm scientist to rescue Punjab,” he tweeted.The PEP chief further suggested that all well-meaning and like-minded leaders such as (former AAP MP) Dharamvira Gandhi, Sucha Singh Chhotepur and (suspended AAP MLA) Kanwar Sandhu should unite to rid Punjab of corrupt traditional parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/khaira-makes-unity-appeal-to-like-minded-leaders/story-ita2qOZrHY5mvdLfHj32JM.html
24-05-2020||City||Man sets afire room with two married daughters and two minor children sleeping inside, one minor girl dies||Ghaziabad: A 50-year-old man was arrested for setting afire a room in his house with his two daughters and their two children inside on Sunday. One of the children succumbed to her injuries later.The man was arrested on charges of murder and attempt to murder.According to the police, the suspect, Mohammad Saleem, suspected his daughters were having affairs. The police also said he was angry as the two had been living with him for a few months and were not going to their in-laws’ house in Aligarh.“The suspect’s two daughters have seven children, and they had all been staying at their father’s house in Loni. Saleem suspected the two were involved with other men and were not going back to their in-laws’ house as a result. On Sunday, around 6.30am, the suspect set the room where both his daughters and their two minor children were asleep on fire,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural).The police said the man also bolted the room from outside. Neighbours later arrived to help when the daughters raised an alarm.“The four were taken out of the room and rushed to GTB Hospital in Delhi. A minor girl aged five years died as a result of suffocation while others are stated to be stable. After the family filed a police complaint. the suspect was arrested and booked under the Indian Penal Code’s sections for murder and attempt to murder,” Jadaun said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-sets-afire-room-with-two-married-daughters-and-two-minor-children-sleeping-inside-one-minor-girl-dies/story-FRQnOKgTYNcLGMod3ll1bK.html
24-05-2020||City||Soon, premium liquor to be sold at retail vends in Noida, Ghaziabad malls||Ghaziabad: Shopping malls in Noida and Ghaziabad will soon house retail vends selling premium brands of liquor, as the state cabinet on Saturday approved the ‘Uttar Pradesh Excise (Settlement of Licences for Premium Retail Vends of Foreign Liquor) Rules, 2020’. As per the new rules, high-end brands of alcohol can also be sold in departmental stores and supermarkets, as are available in cities like Gurugram. Currently, foreign liquor is sold in retail stores and model shops having licence from the excise department.“We expect that the arrangement may start within the next two months as malls are still closed due to the lockdown. We are waiting for the lockdown to get over and also have to finalise the license fees. Thereafter, we will see how the new arrangement rolls out. The retail vends will not sell all liquors, but only certain categories of foreign liquor. The consumption on the premises of the liquor vend will not be allowed,” said Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, principal secretary of UP excise department.According to officials, the premium retail vends can sell imported liquor brands, Indian made foreign liquor (IMFL) brands of scotch or above category, all categories of brandy, gin and wine, besides brands of vodka and rum with MRP more than Rs 700. Such vends can also sell high-end brands of beer with MRP more than Rs 160 per can (of 500ml or equivalent).The liquor vends given licences will give choice and provide access to wide variety of liquor brands both Indian and imported to the consumer besides giving a better shopping experience. “The rules have been framed for allowing sale of premium brands of liquor in malls as there is an increasing trend of shopping in malls. We have malls in Lucknow, Kanpur, and NCR cities like Noida and Ghaziabad, among others, in the state. Licences in form FL-4C will be granted for retail sale of foreign liquor in sealed bottles in malls. So, we are optimistic that the trend of sale of alcohol from liquor vends will pick up,” Bhoosreddy said.According to the new rules, the malls in which such liquor vends can open should have a minimum plinth area of 10,000 square feet, and it includes departmental stores, supermarkets or hybrid supermarkets. Besides, the premium retail vend should have at least 500 square feet carpet area and provide customers the facility to walk in and select the choice of brand from the shelves. Such shops need to be air conditioned with well decorated shelves so that various brands can be displayed under a systematic layout plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/soon-premium-liquor-to-be-sold-at-retail-vends-in-noida-ghaziabad-malls/story-ttwL3doUSBPILQIYqhBVMJ.html
24-05-2020||City||UP-RERA to start hearing all cases through video conferencing||After the success of online public hearing and final argument cases through online platform, the Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UP-Rera) has decided to start hearing routine cases through video conferencing from Tuesday. UP-Rera member Balvinder Kumar said all future hearings would be conducted through video conferencing. “From Tuesday onwards, we will start hearing routine cases too. All Rera courts will take up hearing of cases online. Each court will hear 30 cases daily. The list of cases has been prepared,” said Balvinder Kumar on Sunday.“We are briefing the complainants about the procedure of video conferencing. It can be done on mobile phones too if they do not have laptop or desktop facilities. Today, everyone has smart phones. Online video conferencing will not be an issue. This will save time and will be convenient for complainants as well,” said Rajive Kumar, UP-Rera chairman. “As Noida is still under the red zone, the Rera court judges will conduct hearing from their homes. Once the situation improves, video conferencing will be conducted from UP-Rera benches in Greater Noida. At Lucknow, we are conducting video conferencing at UP-Rera office, which is operational,” said Rajive Kumar.UP-Rera Chairman Rajive Kumar said on Sunday, “We started e-courts in March this year. Under this system, all document submissions and replies are being carried out online. Complainants and respondents are called to UP-Rera courts for personal hearing only once during the final arguments. Thereafter, the Rera court issues an order.”“We had planned to hold the final arguments hearing too through video conferencing once the online system was effective and allottees got used to the system. The Covid-19 pandemic has only advanced the process.Originally, we had planned to introduce video conferencing for final arguments after a few months.,”said Chairman.“As we start video conferencing the hearing of routine cases, allottees and builders will soon get used to the new system. In future, we plan to conduct all hearings through video conferencing,” said UP-Rera chairman.On May 18, UP-Rera had conducted final arguments of cases through video conferencing. In 80% of these cases, orders have been passed by Rera court benches. In some cases, the order has been reserved. All these orders will be uploaded once they are typed out and signed,” said Kumar. Advocate Sardar Singh Bansal said, “It will be beneficial for advocates and allottees too. Several complainants are from other states. Advocates should be allowed to participate in the process via video conferencing.” The chairman said advocates are allowed to participate in video conferencing as well. Allottees, builders welcome moveAllottees and builders have welcomed the UP-Rera’s move to conduct all hearings through video conferencing. They hope it will save them time and money.Pankaj Gupta, a resident of Rohini, Delhi, said, “Video conference hearings are beneficial. On May 18, I attended a hearing through video conferencing and saved my time as well as conveyance expenses.”“The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic has changed our lifestyle as well as our approach to a lot of things. UP-Rera’s plan of video conferencing is a good decision given the pandemic,” Gupta said.Complainant Karan Khanna, a resident of Meerut, said, “Usually, one spends an entire day just to attend a hearing at the UP-Rera office in Greater Noida. Also, one spends around ₹1,000 on conveyance and food besides the advocate fee. If the video conferencing plan succeeds, then in the future, several complainants may not need to hire an advocate at the office. One can attend the video conference on a mobile phone or a laptop from wherever one is present, either at the home, the office or while travelling in a car.” He said that on May 18, his advocate had represented him in the case via video conferencing.CREDAI (a real estate developers’ association) member and chief managing director, ATS Limited, Getamber Anand said, “It will reduce our advocates’ visits to the UP-Rera office. Video conferencing will be beneficial for all stakeholders.”UP-Rera secretary Abrar Ahmed said, “On Tuesday, 31 cases are listed for Noida’s bench 2 and 30 cases for bench 1.” These will be heard via video conferencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-rera-to-start-hearing-all-cases-through-video-conferencing/story-DiT8ay5ic4yH3dY19ulBrK.html
24-05-2020||City||Two pedestrians hit by car in Sector 65, one killed||Noida:A 40-year-old man was killed on Sunday in Sector 65 while another was injured after they were allegedly hit by a speeding car, the police said. The accident, which took place around 1pm when the two men were on their way to work, was reported to the police helpline from B block of Sector 65. The deceased was identified as Shiv Kumar, who along with his colleague Bhawar Lal, was on his way to work at a sweet shop in the area.“It seems that the car hit both of them after which the driver left the vehicle at the spot and fled. A police team rushed them to a nearby hospital where Kumar was declared brought dead while Lal is undergoing treatment for his injuries. He is out of danger,” said Amit Kumar Singh, station house officer, Phase 3 police station.The body has been sent for an autopsy and the vehicle has been seized, said the police.“No complaint has been received in this case yet. But once it is filed, a case will be registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. Efforts are on to trace the driver,” said the SHO.In a separate incident, the body of a security guard working at a private company in Sector 4 was found on the premises by another guard on duty, the police said. The deceased, Devi Prasad (35) , is a native of Sultanpur and was living in Harola village with his cousin.“He was found near an electrical transformer and there is a burn mark on his hand suggesting that he might have received an electrical shock. There are no injuries on the body that has been sent for an autopsy. We will take legal action, once the autopsy reports come in,” said RK Singh, SHO, Sector 20 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-pedestrians-hit-by-car-in-sector-65-one-killed/story-ChC67icL8lvGx8SMcvAsRO.html
24-05-2020||City||Inflated figures, CMO asks for shifting travellers in paid quarantine to their home towns||The district health department has requested the administration to shift the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients, brought to Ghaziabad under the Vande Bharat Mission, to their respective hometowns. The officials said that two travellers lodged in paid quarantine have tested positive and should be sent to their respective districts for further treatment.“The two travellers have tested positive and are lodged at ESI Hospital in Sahibabad. These cases have been added to the tally of Ghaziabad district by the state surveillance control room and are inflating our figures. Apart from them, there are seven more cases from other districts that have been added to the tally of Ghaziabad district,” the district’s chief medical officer (CMO) Dr NK Gupta, said.“The different parameters (like the number, sampling rate, doubling rate, fatality rate and testing ratio) of active cases will be affected if we do not rectify the figures. So, we have asked the administration to send the travellers back to their home districts and also written to the state surveillance officials to rectify the tally of Ghaziabad district,” the CMO added.He said that the total number of Covid-19 cases in the district stood at 227 with the addition of 10 new cases on Sunday. He added that 193 persons were discharged so far and the number of active cases stood at 33.“Four of the 10 cases reported on Sunday are contacts of two employees of Zee media. Two other women reported positive had given birth at a women’s hospital, where they were tested. Apart from the, there are two cases from Vasundhara and one each from Nehru Nagar and Patel Nagar,” the CMO added.“We have received the rectification request from the Ghaziabad officials and the cases will soon be transferred to other districts,” Dr Vikasendu Agrawal, the state surveillance officer, said.Under the Vande Bharat Mission, 502 travellers, all from Uttar Pradesh districts, are currently in paid quarantine at hotels in Ghaziabad.“These people have travelled from different cities and countries like the US, Singapore, Malaysia, Bangladesh, Sharjah, Nepal and Dubai, among others. We are making arrangements for their transfer to their hometowns; so far, 32 of them have already been sent home after completed the requisite 14-day quarantine. The process will also be taken up for positive patients,” said PN Dixit, the project director of the district rural development authority who is coordinating with the travellers.App-based e-rickshaws soonOfficials of the district administration also added that since offices are reopening under the norms of Lockdown 4.0, there is a need to cater to passengers who use public transport. As part of one of the measures, they are in talks with e-rickshaw manufactures and have asked them to initiate an app-based e-rickshaw service in Ghaziabad.“We are also trying to operate 20 app-based e-rickshaws on two routes—Mohan Nagar to Hapur Chungi and Kaushambi to Sahibabad. We have asked the regional transport officer to give a plan for the proposed operations. Such e-rickshaws will cater to a maximum of two passengers besides the driver under the norms of Lockdown 4.0,” the district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said in a statement on Sunday.In recent directions under the Lockdown 4.0, the district magistrate had allowed three-wheelers to ply with a maximum of two passengers and a driver.Civil flights from HindonMeanwhile, officials of the district administration said that flights would start operating from the civil terminal at Hindon airbase likely from May 25 and all standard operating procedures (SOPs) were in place before the flights start at 4.45pm on Monday.In this context, officials of the UP government said that they have issued a government order detailing the SOPs as the flights will be made operational from May 25.“The government has issued the order. The passengers coming to UP will have to register themselves through a web link. People who belong to UP will have to quarantine themselves at home for 14 days and get themselves tested after six days. If their test is negative, they can leave quarantine. There will be no quarantine for persons from UP who travel to and from another state for work. However, their travel to UP has to be short and last less than a week. They have to disclose all their details, place of stay and work, etc. to authorities,” Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s principal secretary (health), said.The officials said that there are 2,686 people in isolation wards in the state and 10,540 in quarantine facilities at present.“We are especially focussed on contacting migrant workers; so far we have contacted 807,147 of them. Of them, 873 are symptomatic and their testing is underway. We are also laying special emphasis on the containment exercise and 90,408 of our teams have so far surveyed 7,157,288 houses with a population of 3.58 crore living in them,” Prasad added.According to officials, an area with a 250-metre radius around where a single case is found is now under surveillance, while an area with 500-metre radius from a cluster of cases is defined as a containment zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/inflated-figures-cmo-asks-for-shifting-travellers-in-paid-quarantine-to-their-home-towns/story-vmOaoEATPo796saI9QL2HO.html
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||Kids, cops among 53 test coronavirus positive in Haryana||Haryana on Sunday registered 53 new coronavirus cases from 10 districts, which took the state’s tally to 1,184. While 14 fresh cases were reported from Faridabad, nine were detected in Gurugram, eight in Karnal, seven in Hisar and five each in Rewari and Sonepat. Two cases surfaced in Jhajjar and one each in Panipat, Rohtak and Kaithal.According to health department officials, the new patients included two kids of Karnal; a cop posted in Kurukshetra district jail; a migrant labourer in Sonepat who had come from Delhi on May 22; a 19-year-old man of Kaithal and four members of an Adampur family with travel history to Delhi and Mumbai among others.A Delhi cop and a Railways employee were among five people who tested positive in Sonepat. At least four members of a family were also found infected in Rewari’s Bikaner village.Nuh, Ambala and Yamunanagar districts, however, didn’t have any active case of Covid-19 on Sunday and the state’s recovery rate was 64.61%, the health bulletin stated. Also, no one among the Haryana natives, who were recently deported from the US, was found infected on Sunday. On Saturday, 64 people had tested positive for Covid-19 in Haryana, including 21 US deportees. KARNAL CORONAVIRUS PATIENT BOOKED FOR HIDING TRAVEL HISTORYKarnal: A coronavirus patient was booked by Karnal police for hiding his travel history and infecting six members of his family.As per the police, the patient is a resident of Chaman Garden in Karnal city and runs a cloth house.He had visited Delhi on May 15, but did not disclose his travel history and continued to come to his shop. On Saturday, he, along with his wife and son, had tested positive and four more members of his family were found infected on Sunday. Karnal SP Surender Singh Bhoria said the man has been booked under sections 188, 269 and 270 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kids-cops-among-53-test-coronavirus-positive-in-haryana/story-NXB3umBEmxTNNmMOxzyoJO.html
24-05-2020||City||GB Nagar: Six employees of media group among 21 new Covid-19 cases||Noida: Gautam Budh Nagar reported 21 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total number of positive cases to 345 in the district. The new patients include six employees each from the Zee Media office in Noida Sector 16 and OPPO Mobile India’s factory in Greater Noida.On Sunday, the district health department identified 11 more Covid-19 positive cases related to OPPO. Of 11 patients, six are from Gautam Budh Nagar (GBN) while the remaining are from Chandauli, Rae Bareli, Mathura, Bulandshahr and Ghazipur districts. Till now, a total of 21 persons have been found positive for Sars-CoV-2 infection from the Chinese mobile phone maker, of which 16 are from GBN. On May 18, nine employees of OPPO were found positive for the deadly virus, while two positive employees (from the Kasna area and Habibpur Sutyana in Greater Noida) of the company were identified on May 21. According to the health officials, on Sunday, seven employees of Zee Media were found positive for the infection. Of the seven patients, six are from GBN while one is from Delhi. All the seven Covid-19 patients were under institutional quarantine in Noida, the officials said. So far, a total of 39 Zee employees have been found positive for the infection. Of the 39 patients, 24 are from GBN, the officials said. After the first case was reported from Zee on May 15, the health department had taken 51 samples of employees, of which 28 were found Covid-19 positive. In the last four days, health officials have screened 400 employees of the organization to trace close contacts of the positive patients at the Zee office in Sector 16. The entire building is being repeatedly sanitized since May 15. Besides, samples of 50 more employees who are close contacts of the positive patients are collected and they have been put under institutional quarantine. Their reports are awaited, the officials said.On Sunday, nine more patients were identified from various areas of the district. All the patients had influenza like illness, the health officials said. Currently, there are 110 active Covid-19 cases in GBN while 230 patients have been discharged. Five persons have died of Covid-19 in the district so far.In the district, there are 81 containment zones, including 49 in category 1 and 32 in category 2. As per the May 18 orders of the state government, the containment zone in the urban areas will be 250 metre radius or the entire society if a single positive case is reported (category 1). A radius of 500 metre will be sealed if more than two cases are reported (category 2).63 foreign travellers to get discharged The quarantine facilities in GBN are getting empty following the discharge of primary and secondary contacts of positive Covid-19 patients. As per the new guidelines of the state government, only symptomatic people are supposed to be kept under institutional quarantine. Patients from other districts are being discharged and sent back to their home districts where they will have to go under seven days of institutional quarantine followed by seven days of home quarantine. Meanwhile, officials have started the procedure of discharging around 63 foreign travellers who are under institutional quarantine at the Galgotias University in Greater Noida. These people are being sent back to their home districts in vehicles arranged by the GB Nagar administration.On Sunday, a 31-year-old man tried to flee from the Galgotias quarantine centre after he acquired the e-pass to go back to Jharkhand, his home state. The person works in Faridabad and lives in Noida. The man had to catch a train from Dankaur at around 4pm on Sunday and he had requested officials to complete formalities of his discharge. Officials had asked him to wait as the discharge of many other patients was going on. Then the man tried to flee from the centre after his request for the discharge was denied for time being. However, he was noticed by the guards of the Galgotias centre after he managed to exit the centre. The police were informed about the man who immediately brought him back to the centre. “As per the new guidelines, asymptomatic people don’t need to go under institutional quarantine if they have the required facilities at their home. We are in the process of discharging many people who are currently under quarantine at our centre. The man wanted to catch a train and had approached us to get discharged. He was asked to wait and then he tried to flee. He will be discharged soon once the formalities are completed,” said Dr Anil Gupta, in-charge, Galgotias University quarantine centre.Guidelines for offices, industrial units, etcThe district administration has said that following the relaxation in lockdown restrictions in the district, Covid-19 cases may come up in industrial units, commercial outlets, offices and other places. Organizations are asked to inform the health department on immediate basis if any person gets infected with Covid-19 on their premises. The officials have made it clear that the premises can reopen after the sanitisation team gives a ‘premise fitness certificate’. All persons with influenza like illness will have to be compulsorily tested for Covid-19. An undertaking will be taken from the unit or the individual ensuring that the required protocol will be followed by them. Appropriate action will be taken against those organizations and individuals who are found not following the required protocol. The district administration officials are soon going to release a detailed information on the protocols need to be followed by the organizations and concerned individuals. The process of contact tracing will continue as it is.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gb-nagar-six-employees-of-media-group-among-21-new-covid-19-cases/story-gQm9pdlJnqYirCHj2iAOiO.html
24-05-2020||Gurugram||Three booked for raping 28-yr-old, victim alleges one of suspects is a police constable||Three men were booked on Sunday for allegedly raping a 28-year-old woman in Palam Vihar area, said police. The woman alleged in her complaint to the police that one of the suspects is a police constable. The police, however, did not confirm whether a policeman was one of the suspects, and said they are still investigating the matter.No persons have been arrested so far.According to the police, the alleged incident took place around 5.30 pm on Saturday evening. The woman, who is from Rewari, was in her rented room, when she got a phone call from a friend, the police said. According to her statement to the police, the man who called her is a police constable.In her police complaint, she said her friend asked her to come out of the house, where he was waiting in his car. “He asked me to come along for a drive. His two friends were also seated in the car. On the way, they all started consuming liquor and stopped at a banquet hall, where they again drank alcohol. I was sitting in a room at the banquet hall when my friend started misbehaving with me and he groped me. His friend also touched me inappropriately. At this point, I told them to drop me back,” she said in the FIR.The police said the woman alleged that when she requested them to drop her home, the third suspect took her to a different room and raped her. “I started yelling that I will inform the police. One of the suspects slapped me at least twice and threatened to kill me. They left me there and fled the spot. I somehow reached near Rajiv Chowk and reported the incident to the police control room,” she added in her complaint.A police officer privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “The allegations in the FIR are still being verified. It is not certain yet if one of the suspects is a police officer or not.”Rajbala, station house officer (SHO), women police station (west), said, “A probe has been initiated in the matter.” The police are yet to make any arrests.A case was registered against the suspects under sections 376 D (gang rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code at Palam Vihar police station on Sunday, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/three-booked-for-raping-28-yr-old-victim-alleges-one-of-suspects-is-a-police-constable/story-YGLRJlTBbPf3faJWkvhjfO.html
24-05-2020||City||‘Mentally unstable’ woman kills 2 daughters in Hisar||A 27-year-old woman killed her two daughters, aged one and three, in Khedar village of Hisar on Sunday evening, police said.The woman — who is said to be mentally unstable — also tried to kill herself. Deputy superintendent of police Sanjay Kumar said they have launched a probe. The woman’s family members said she was mentally unstable, but we will investigate the case from every possible angle, he said.Superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia said, “An FIR under sections 302 (murder) and 309 (attempt to commit suicide) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the woman on the complaint of her husband. They used to work as labourers.” 14-year-old boy strangled by minor friend in Panipat A 14-year-old boy was strangled allegedly by his friend of the same age in Joshi village of Panipat district, police said on Sunday. The deceased was a son of a migrant labourer from Bihar’s Araria. The incident took place on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, when the boys were preparing to sleep on the ground floor of their house while their parents slept on the first floor. As per the initial reports, they had an altercation.Sunil Kumar, in-charge of Model Town police station, said they have detained the minor accused and started an investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mentally-unstable-woman-kills-2-daughters-in-hisar/story-aPzlWRZbTMYcsHJgLObYdN.html
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||In a relief, cash-strapped PSPCL to buy cheap power from grid in peak season||In a major relief, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), which has been under financial stress due to low demand in the wake of the coronavirus-induced lockdown, will buy electricity from the grid at rates as economic as Rs 3 per unit and that too during the peak summer season. The price is even lesser than the cost of power generated by the state-owned and private thermal plants in Punjab.The corporation has entered a short-term agreement with the grid to purchase 1,500 megawatt (MW) electricity from June to September, particularly keeping in view the upcoming paddy season.The cost of the Talwandi Sabo Power Plant and independent power plants is around Rs 3.40 per unit against the variable cost of Rs 2.94-Rs 3.04 per unit the corporation will pay to the grid for a unit. “Even as power demand in Punjab is likely to remain on lower side this year due to the prolonged Covid-19 crisis, the corporation’s agreement for power purchase with the grid will come handy in case of an emergency in any power station,” said a senior PSPCL official.“Cheaper power purchased through short-term tenders and power exchange will help replace costly electricity procured though long-term power purchase agreements (PPAs) and also reduce the use of imported coal by thermal plants,” he added.PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) Baldev Singh Sran said “Our endeavour is cut the cost of power supply. Usually, the power rates remain high during the peak summers, but this time we got a good deal. The corporation will save Rs 100 crore through the short-term agreement.”“We have placed an order for purchasing 605 MW power (of 1500 MW) from 10 June to 30 June when the demand soars due to paddy sowing. We have made arrangements to provide 8-hour power supply to farmers and round-the-clock uninterrupted power to other consumers,” he added. POWER DEMAND SOARS IN STATEDue to increase in temperatures and consumption of power by agriculture pumpsets for direct sowing of paddy and other crops, power demand in Punjab on Saturday crossed 8,000 MW which was equal to the corresponding day last year. Due to spike in demand, the PSPCL has asked the L&T’s 1,300 MW plant to start power generation. The plant was shut due to less demand of power in the state due to Covid-19 restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/in-a-relief-cash-strapped-pspcl-to-buy-cheap-power-from-grid-in-peak-season/story-ibb4pqEHgScdp7cJTGsyZK.html
24-05-2020||Gurugram||As mercury soars, power cuts and voltage fluctuations return to haunt residents||With the rapid rise in temperature over the past couple of days, complaints of power cuts and voltage fluctuations in the residential colonies of the city have also increased exponentially. The maximum daytime temperature in the city on Saturday was recorded between 44 and 45 degrees Celsius, compelling the residents to stay inside their homes. On the same day, however, the city’s power distribution company, Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN), recorded more than 1,500 complaints from across the city regarding power cuts and voltage fluctuations.Sushant Lok, Mayfield Gardens, DLF Phase-3, Palam Vihar, New Palam Vihar, sectors 21, 22, 23 and other areas witnessed power cuts at least three to four times during the course of the day.Vishnu Khanna, a resident of Sushant Lok-1, said, “Saturday was particularly terrible as we had power cuts at least three to four times. Over all, we had a three-hour-long power cut on Saturday, when the temperature outside was soaring. We got restless as we did not expect such a sudden rise in temperature followed by power cuts. We have been facing summer-time power cuts due to inadequate transformer capacity and related infrastructure. The work on smart grid remains incomplete and this leads to scheduled load shedding for maintenance purpose. These all are perennial complaints of residents, although the officials are least bothered to improve situation in any way.”Mayfield Garden residents also complained of power cuts due to short circuit and ongoing maintenance work by the electricity department.“A high tension wire developed a fault in our area and that caused power disruption for one-and-a-half hours. The department takes lot of time to rectify the fault and restore electricity. Short circuits keep on happening as tree branches have covered the electricity wires at several places. They need pruning,” said DC Yadav, resident of Mayfield Garden.Due to the ongoing smart grid work and maintenance of existing electricity infrastructure, the department currently goes for load shedding and scheduled power cuts in one area or the other in the city.Bhawani Shankar Tripathy, Sector 23-A resident, said, “We had two-and-half-hour-long hour power cut with high voltage fluctuation on Saturday.”Most of the complaints pertained to power cuts, followed by voltage fluctuations, complaints of single-phase line, metre burning and transformer fuses getting damaged.As per DHBVN’s record, in the last five days, i.e. from Tuesday to Saturday, the city’s electricity consumption rose from 1.84 crore units to 2.13 crore units, thereby recording an additional consumption of 29 lakh units.“There are power cuts and some fluctuations as maintenance works are going on at places and we are trying our best to keep the distribution uninterrupted. We have received complaints from the residents and are trying to fix the problems,” said Joginder Singh Hooda, DHBVN superintending engineer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/as-mercury-soars-power-cuts-and-voltage-fluctuations-return-to-haunt-residents/story-ejkJ2vq3CWWOxvwxgPm4sM.html
24-05-2020||Gurugram||Fire at cosmetic factory doused after 30 hours||A fire at a manufacturing unit of hand sanitisers and cosmetics in Kherki Daula was put out after 30 hours on Sunday. The fire at Stella Industries Limited, which started around 9.15am on Saturday, was doused at 3pm on Sunday.Fire department officials said they had managed to contain the fire at the three-storey establishment around 4pm on Saturday, but a combination of chemicals, used in the processing of hand sanitisers, along with plastic containers resulted in the fire continuing in the basement of the building for another 23 hours.“The plastic containers, in which the solution of hand sanitisers is added, melted due to the fire and disfigured in such a manner that they formed a layer on top of the basement and prevented water from seeping through below. The highly flammable chemicals were stored below this layer and they continued burning as water couldn’t pass through. Finally, around 7am on Sunday, we used air-pressure machines to shift the topmost layer of plastic and started dousing the fire below,” said IS Kashyap, assistant divisional fire safety officer.Kashyap said that a total of 21 fire tenders were used to douse the fire, as part of a phased operation — all 21 were used in dousing operations until 4pm on Saturday, after which only 12 tenders were deployed and subsequently, this number was reduced to six early Sunday morning.Fire department officials said that since March 25, when the national lockdown to control the spread of coronavirus was enforced, the company, which manufactures cosmetics, toiletries and other personal care products, had only been manufacturing hand sanitisers.“The owners of the company today (Sunday) informed us that on Saturday, they resumed production of perfumes and deodorants. As soon as they started, one of their machines on the ground floor started sparking and the chemical vapour in the container caught fire, which subsequently spread throughout the building,” said Kashyap.He said that all workers inside the building managed to escape unhurt when the fire was just starting to spread. He also said that occupants of five residential buildings located in the vicinity had left the area as a precaution and returned by Saturday evening, when the fire was contained to the basement.Kashyap said that the company had a conditional no-objection certificate (NOC) from the fire department as their building plan approval was pending. They were given a conditional NOC, with a final one to be obtained in six months. He said that the company had proper entry and exit routes, and the necessary firefighting equipment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/fire-at-cosmetic-factory-doused-after-30-hours/story-4KJvf3uFxSfsINQbmRzFyI.html
24-05-2020||Gurugram||Would like to meet Ivanka Trump one day, says ‘cycle girl’ Jyoti Kumari||Fifteen-year-old Jyoti Kumari, who caught global attention after she was forced to peddle a distance of nearly 1,200 km from Gurugram to Darbhanga in Bihar with her injured father riding pillion on the bicycle, has expressed her wish to one day meet US President’s daughter Ivanka Trump who had tweeted on Jyoti’s ordeal.Speaking over the phone from her village Sirhulli, Jyoti said she did not know who Ivanka was at first, and came to know about her just recently. “I didn’t know who Ivanka was, but after her tweet some media persons told me about her. I would certainly like to meet her one day,” she said.Senior White House adviser Ivanka on May 22 had tweeted that Jyoti’s “beautiful feat of endurance and love has captured the imagination of the Indian people and the cycling federation.”Jyoti’s ordeal had become the talking point on social media even prompting the Cycle Federation of India (CFI) to offer her a trial at the IGI Stadium complex in New Delhi.The 15-year-old said ever since she has got back to her village, many people have been reaching out to her. “So many people have come and visited me in the last few days. Every day there are journalists who are lined up to take my interviews. On average, I give six to seven television interviews these days,” she said.The 15-year-old said she feels like a celebrity now, and hopes that one day a Bollywood director would make a movie on her life. “There are people who come to meet me only to get selfies.”Stranded in Gurugram for more than two months amid the nationwide lockdown, Jyoti and her father, Mohan Paswan, had decided to leave the city on May 10. The duo bought a second-hand bicycle with the little money they had left with them, and Jyoti asked her injured father to sit on the rear seat as she set out for the arduous journey to her village in Darbhanga district.She said playing ‘pitthu’ (seven stones—a traditional game played with a ball and stones) every day with her neighbours prepared her for the journey wherein she peddled more than 150-km daily. “As a kid I used to play pitthu which helped to strengthen my legs. When my father asked me if I could cycle back home I agreed instantly. Also, I like cycling and my father knew that I can cycle for long hours without getting tired,” she added.Apart from the fame, the long, back-breaking journey brought her, Jyoti also has something else to be cheerful about. The Darbhanga district administration has now granted Jyoti, who had dropped out of class 8 a few years ago, admission into class 9 at a government school. “I had left school a few years ago because my family was going through financial problems, but now I have got admission in class 9. I would like to study further and finish my education,” said Jyoti, who wishes to hold a graduation degree in a few years. The teenager and her father have been put under a 14-day quarantine by the district administration at a center in her village for now. “When Jyoti and her father set out to come home, I informed the village panchayat about them. However, everyone was scared that they might spread the coronavirus disease in case they are infected, and the panchayat decided to quarantine both of them in a nearby school,” Phula Devi, Jyoti’s mother. Her mother, who has also shifted to the quarantine center, said that ever since Jyoti has returned from Gurugram numerous people have come forward to help their family. “We have received around ₹35,000 in donations. I never expected that we would get this sort of money amid the lockdown. There are others who have come forward, and have promised to get her a new cycle,” said Devi.When asked about CFI’ offer, Jyoti said she would come to New Delhi after her quarantine period is over and give the trials. “I will definitely come to Delhi and give the trials. I want to compete,” she said.Meanwhile, CFI said they will conduct a trial for Jyoti to check if she can pursue cycling at a national or international level, but it will not be an easy task. “After her quarantine period gets over we will see how she performs in the trial. Later, she will have to be trained for at least four years before she can start competing at the national level,” said Onkar Singh, chairman, CFI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/would-like-to-meet-ivanka-trump-one-day-says-cycle-girl-jyoti-kumari/story-eJ9SLyblm58ThlGPtm5YbI.html
24-05-2020||Gurugram||In Gurugram, expats add desi twist to beat lockdown food challenges||Expats living in the city, as the Covid-19 pandemic rages on and a lockdown is enforced by the administration, have been forced to tweak their palates and find joy in more humble food items of daily offerings.So, most of them have tried to innovate by replacing their imported food products with desi items on their kitchen shelves. Smoked salmon has given way to local prawns, frozen parathas have come on the menu in place of European bread, sausages have been replaced by chicken with skin or eggs, as many shops selling imported items have found it hard to replenish their stocks owing to the closure of international borders.Many shop owners in the city said that they have told their patrons that stocking up on imported food has become difficult.SM Verma, department manager, La Marcche said, “Imported cereals disappeared from our shelves even before the lockdown began. We ran out of stock of Italian pasta. Most foreigners then started relying on Indian products.”Online food stores said that prices of certain imported products have gone through the roof.Digvijay Singh Kushwa, who runs an online food store, Digi Fresh, said, “Avocados from New Zealand and blue berries are out of stock. However, we have identified an importer who could replenish our stocks but obviously at a high price.”Some South Koreans, who purchase food products from premier imported shops in the city, claimed that even essential products were hard to find in such stores during the ongoing lockdown.Ja Young Lee, who has been living in the city for the last eight years, said, “There is a Korean shop where we get most of the ingredients used in preparing Korean food. However, Korean sauce, which is one of the main ingredients of our food, is not available. So, we had to do with whatever we had.”The Korean community relies on WhatsApp groups to help each other out . “Korean people give whatever they had stocked up in their kitchen to others who were running short. A family helped me in getting some sauce also, so it worked out well,” added Lee.Like Lee, most expats in the city said are relying on the second best option available to them, Indian food products. For some, this alternative food has even proven to be yummier than their usual fare.Seiko Uchida, a Japanese expat who lives in an apartment complex on Golf Course road, said, “As imported juices were not available at any stores in the city, I introduced my kids to flavoured drinks, which they immensely loved. The stores had also fallen short of European bread, so I found stuffed paratha packet and we liked the spices and enjoyed it. Now, my kids want me to make parathas.”Unlike stuffed parathas, Andrey Khon — who works as a station manager of Uzbekistan Airways in New Delhi — said there was a shortage of some basic seafood in the city. So his family tried Korean delicacies as many Korean food stores were open during the lockdown period.“Seafood, which I could easily buy, like smoked salmon, oyster, mussels, had disappeared,” said Khon. He then fell back on prawns, which were easily available as a replacement for his favourite salmons. “I have Korean blood running in my family and they have always liked Korean food.We relied on getting food products from Korean marts at South Point Mall,” added Khon.Like Andrey, Fernanda Ramos from Brazil who lives in Sector 53, siad she has found it hard to get poultry in the city markets.Ramos bought a dozen eggs every third day, to replace chicken which was not easily available in the city, she said. “I had problems in buying chicken and yeast for bread. All markets experienced supply problems because of the restrictions placed at the Delhi-Gurgaon border. I had to survive on eggs for many days as the products available in the supermarkets were not sufficient,” said Ramos, who has been living in the city for three years.For Japanese-born Jintatsu Asada, who came to Gurugram six years ago, getting hold of chicken with skin was a challenging task. He and his family relied on sausages instead of their favourite chicken with skin.“I was not able to find any shop where I could buy chicken with its skin. In India people eat chicken without its skin but in Japan we eat it with its skin and that’s where the taste lies. So, I normally would get the chicken with the skin in a local market. But, now with the lockdown in place, i couldn’t find it. No online delivery store was giving us this option either,” said Asada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/in-gurugram-expats-add-desi-twist-to-beat-lockdown-food-challenges/story-ciGI3uWYH35vVpNrzAb5hN.html
24-05-2020||City||Labourer killed, boy injured in Karnal cracker factory blast||A labourer was killed while a boy sustained injuries in a blast at a cracker factory in Kunjpura village of Karnal district on Sunday. The deceased was identified as Vinod Kumar, 44, a migrant labourer from Bihar, and the injured as Prateek Kumar, 14, of Kunjpura village.The explosion took place around 6:15pm when the labourers were cleaning the factory’s godown. The impact of the blast was so severe that two rooms of the factory collapsed. Four fire tenders were rushed to the spot to contain the flames. Soon after, a police team from the Kunjpura police station also reached the spot to carry out a rescue operation.The two were rushed to the civil hospital, where the doctors declared Vinod brought dead. Other workers, however, managed to escape unhurt.Karnal superintendent of police Surender Bhoria said that the body had been sent to Kalpana Chawla Medical College and Hospital for postmortem examination and an investigation was underway to ascertain the cause of the blast.He added that an FIR will be registered as per the statement of the injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/labourer-killed-boy-injured-in-karnal-cracker-factory-blast/story-kuS4vXsZwAzbsEtSdgFhuN.html
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||27-yr-old in police custody, 18 others test positive in Punjab||Nineteen more persons, including a 27-year-old youth arrested on charges of attempt to murder and an Afghanistan-returned doctor, tested positive for the coronavirus in Punjab on Sunday, taking the state’s tally of those infected by the disease so far to 2,154. The doctor and the 27-year-old accused were among five persons found infected in Amritsar. “The doctor, a resident of Majitha Road in Amritsar, reached the city three days ago and was quarantined in a local hotel,” civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said.“The 27-year-old was arrested on May 22 and his swab samples were taken the next day. We are identifying the police personnel who came in contact with him. The cops will be home-quarantined and their samples will be taken. We have requested the health department to conduct his repeat test,” said police commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill.Three others tested positive are a 40-year-old man from Rani Ka Bagh, a woman who had returned to the city from Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh and is a close contact of a Covid-19 patient. The total number of cases in the district has reached 327, including 6 deaths. 7 NEW CASES IN PATHANKOTSeven fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Pathankot district on Sunday. A resident of Lamini, who had gone to his in-laws’ house in Amritsar, was taken to hospital after he had flu-like symptoms. He is under treatment in Amritsar.Six family members of a fast-food corner owner found infected on Friday also tested positive. The district has reported 39 cases, including two deaths. FOUR MORE INFECTED IN HOSHIARPUR DISTIn Hoshiarpur, four more contacts of a Jalalpur resident, who recently died due to Covid-19 in a Jalandhar hospital, tested positive for the virus. One of them is an 81-year-old woman. Five contacts of the deceased had tested positive three days ago. At present, there are 14 active cases in the district.Also, Gurdaspur district reported two fresh cases. The patients, aged 31 and 34, are residents of Batala. Both worked in Mumbai, Maharashtra, and returned home five days ago. The health department is taking samples of their family members and those others who came in their contact during their stay in Batala. A total of 135 cases, including 10 active, have been reported in the district.Besides, a 25-year-old truck driver of Machiwada village in Ferozepur district was tested positive for the disease on Sunday. His sample was taken in Jammu on May 18 and his location was traced to Gujarat’s Vadodara district. The Ferozepur administration officials informed their counterparts in Vadodara who isolated the 25-year-old in a local hospital. The youth visited his village on May 19. MANSA HAS NO ACTIVE CASESThere is no active Covid-19 case in Mansa district as two patients were discharged from the civil hospital on Sunday. Civil surgeon Dr Lal Chand Thakral said 33 persons have been found positive in the district so far. (Inputs from Ferozepur, Bathinda, Gurdaspur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/27-yr-old-in-police-custody-18-others-test-positive-in-punjab/story-AQUZoAhi9O136l2wqMju7I.html
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reforms dept working on tech solutions: Vini Mahajan||Additional chief secretary (ACS) governance reforms and public grievances department Vini Mahajan has said that the IT team of her department had been tasked with building and implementing technology-led solutions to help the state government in the difficult phase of the Covid-19 pandemic. Chief executive officer (CEO) e-governance Ravi Bhagat and director of the department Parminder Pal Singh would supervise these initiatives, she said, adding that the department had helped develop solutions to manage, share and analyse data as well as to provide essential citizen-centric services during the lockdown as well.She added that the COVA app they built to track the pandemic had got 23 lakh downloads to date, claiming that this app was developed before other governments. “Eleven states in the country requested for access to admin logins to the COVA App and the dashboard so that they could use the features of the application to manage services in their respective states as well,” Mahajan added. She added her team had been consistently offering IT support to the departments of health and family welfare and medical education and research, the state covid-19 Control Room and to the Punjab Mandi Board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-reforms-dept-working-on-tech-solutions-vini-mahajan/story-Ps1oKvvxxK8I9SxfAm07GM.html
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||Delhi-Amritsar-Katra e-way to connect Amritsar: Harsimrat||Union food processing industries minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Sunday said she had received a commitment from the Union road transport and highways ministry that the alignment of the Delhi-Amritsar-Katra expressway would be amended to provide direct connectivity between Delhi and Amritsar. She claimed this was in line with the original alignment proposed during the tenure of the SAD-BJP government in Punjab, and fulfilled a long standing demand of residents of Amritsar. “As per the alignment that the Congress government in the state submitted, the expressway was to be diverted 60 km ahead of Amritsar, near Kartarpur, and there was a provision for upgrading the existing NH-3 from Kartarpur to Amritsar. Now, the Union ministry had acceded to my request to include an additional green-field highway between Kartarpur and Amritsar to ensure direct connectivity between the holy city and Delhi,” she added in a release.She went on to add that she had also conveyed to the highways ministry that since the expressway was aimed at promoting tourism and connected two major shrines, it should also pass through important Sikh shrines of Sultanpur Lodhi, Khadoor Sahib, Goindwal Sahib and Tarn Taran.“This proposal, if accepted, will enhance the glory of the Sikh shrines and ensure ‘Khule Darshan Didar’ of the holy places,” she said, adding that a new Sikh religious circuit would be created once the expressway was re-aligned, adding it would facilitate pilgrims from around the world. She added that the project would also give a huge boost to the economies of the cities and areas it touched.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/delhi-amritsar-katra-e-way-to-connect-amritsar-harsimrat/story-wYYwUMJLNQUskPVI9dmjeM.html
24-05-2020||City||UP govt issues guidelines for domestic air travellers||Noida: With domestic flight operations set to resume from May 25, the Uttar Pradesh government has issued a list of protocols to be followed by the flyers coming to the state.According to the guidelines of the state government, passengers will have to register themselves on the covid website, reg.upcovid.in, following which they will receive an OTP on their phones using which passengers will have to upload their details.“An SMS and a PDF will be shared on the registered phone number which will be checked by CISF personnel, and only after that will they be allowed to leave the airport all the while maintaining norms of social distancing and wearing masks or face covers,” said the order .For passengers travelling to the state for a stay, a home quarantine for 14 days will be mandatory while their homes will be marked. Local administration will have the power to permit them for work or any emergency. They will be tested on the sixth day of their arrival and the home quarantine will end in case of negative results. Those travellers who do not have the facility of staying at home can go for an institutional quarantine, the new guidelines said. Also, travellers who are staying in the state for less than a week and travelling elsewhere or back will have to provide details of the return flight, and they will not be allowed to travel to any containment zone.“For travellers not staying in a residential complex, the managers of any commercial place will provide their details to the district administration while the place should be sanitized thoroughly. In case of any symptoms like fever, cough or breathing problems, the health department should be contacted immediately,” said the order.The state government will tally the registration data of the passengers and their monitoring with the respective district administrations.The Centre had suspended all flight operations in March due to the Covid-19 pandemic, and the subsequent nationwide lockdown.Meanwhile, as Gautam Budh Nagar has continued to seal its border with Delhi, travellers will not face any problems going out of the district, police officials said.“If passengers have a confirmed rail or air ticket, they will not need any separate movement pass and can cross the border freely,” said Ashutosh Dwivedi, additional deputy commissioner of police (law and order).The instructions have been shared with the police department, the officials said.Ever since the beginning of the lockdown in UP from March 23, the GB Nagar police have registered 1,816 violations under Section 188 while 6,577 people have been arrested till May 23. The police have also seized 1,646 vehicles and collected Rs 5.25 lakh in fines while challaning 37,836 vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-govt-issues-guidelines-for-domestic-air-travellers/story-kwHLmgLH2sajFoY5A6e15J.html
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana’s 4 thermal plants told to pay for defying emission norms||The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has directed four thermal power plants of Haryana to pay environmental compensation of ₹18 lakh per month for each of their units that failed to comply with the prescribed emission norms.These plants have been identified as Indira Gandhi Thermal Power Plant (units 1, 2 and 3) in Jhardli of Jhajjar district, Rajiv Gandhi Thermal Power Project (units 1 and 2) in Khedar of Hisar, Panipat Thermal Power Plant (units 6, 7 and 8) in Assan of Panipat district and Deen Bandhu Chhotu Ram Thermal Power Station (units 1 and 2) in Pansra of Yamunanagar district.As per the orders, the CPCB has issued the directions considering the environmental concerns under Section 5 of the Environment (Protection) Act 1986. The plants have been told to pay the amount by June 5.The order mentioned that the environment, forest and climate change ministry had amended the emission ceiling for particulate matter and notified the new limits for sulphur dioxide, oxides of nitrogen and mercury, and water consumption limit for coal/lignite-based thermal power plants. As per the notification of December 7, 2015, thermal plants are required to achieve the notified limit within two years from the date of notification.These power plants, that were to be retrofitted with modern flue-gas desulfurisation (FGD) units which cut emissions of sulfur dioxide, did not comply with the norms.A study by IIT Kanpur on air pollution and green house gases in Delhi in January 2016 had indicated that 13 thermal power plants with the capacity of over 11,000 MW in the 300-km radius of Delhi were expected to contribute to secondary particulate pollutants, and considering the impact of coal-based power plants on ambient air quality in Delhi-NCR and the timelines given by the ministry of power for thermal plants within the specific limits were revised on December 31, 2019.These plants were told to take immediate measures like installation of low NOx burners and achieve progressive reduction to comply with the revised emission limit by 2019.Earlier, show-cause notices had been issued to the said power plants for not adhering to the environmental norms. As per the orders, the compliance of the directions will be reviewed by the CPCB periodically and further directions will be issued.“Haryana Power Generation Cooperation Limited has been told to ensure the compliance of the directions, failing which action as deemed fit will be taken in accordance with the provision of the Environment (Protection) Act,” the order read.Haryana Power General Corporation managing director Mohammed Shayin said, “We will file an appeal against the order as we were unable to stick to the norms due to the Covid-19 issue.”Haryana State Pollution Control Board member secretary S Naryanan said, “With reference to the latest CPCB directions, we are taking up the matter with the units concerned for immediate compliance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-s-4-thermal-plants-told-to-pay-for-defying-emission-norms/story-yfbW1N5KZyjKAoRCSXEaKP.html
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||Salons in Punjab asked to maintain hygiene, sanitisation||The Punjab health department on Sunday issued an advisory for maintaining hygiene and sanitisation at barber shops and salons amid the Covid-19 pandemic.As per the advisory, barbers and salon owners have been asked to ensure that any staff member who has symptoms of Covid-19 is not engaged in work. Similarly, no client having such symptoms should be attended, an official spokesperson said.They have been asked to ensure that there is no unnecessary crowding at their shops. Besides, the owners and the staff working at their shops will mandatorily wear masks. Clients have also been asked to wear masks, he said.All guidelines related to prevention of Covid-19 such as frequent hand washing (with soap and water or sanitiser), maintaining a physical distance of one metre, following respiratory hygiene, keeping a watch over disease symptoms, no spitting in public etc must be complied with during the interpersonal dealing of clients and staff, the spokesman said. The owners have been asked to clean their shops, including service rooms, waiting areas, workstations etc preferably after every two-three hours. “Floors should be cleaned with 1% sodium hypochlorite or equivalent commercial disinfectant,” the advisory said.“Furniture and frequently touched surfaces and articles should be regularly sanitised. Scissors, razors, combs, styling tools should also be wiped with 1% sodium hypochlorite after every use. Robes and towels should be clean and regularly washed. They should not be reused for multiple clients,” it said.Besides, the shop owners should encourage the customers to use the digital payment mode as much as possible. In case cash transaction is used, the shopkeeper, staff and clients will sanitise their hands immediately before and after the transaction, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/salons-in-punjab-asked-to-maintain-hygiene-sanitisation/story-eNn4QEPYlhmAkeN4piAosK.html
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers in Ambala anxious over labour shortage ahead of paddy sowing season||As migrant labourers continue to leave for their hometowns, farmers’ anxiety is shooting through the roof ahead of the paddy sowing season in the region.After facing a similar problem during wheat harvest, farmers in Ambala are bracing for another period of labour shortage. Paddy is grown on nearly 80,000 hectares of land in the district.Harvinder Singh, a farmer from Sonda village near Hisar Road said his labourers were like family to him, but they left a few days ago due to panic and rumours without informing him.“There were around 15 labourers from Bihar working for years with us, but many of them believed that they might get stuck here if the impact of this pandemic increases. Sowing paddy will be a challenge for us without them. There is no support regarding machinery from the government, but we are expecting something in the economic package from the Centre,” he said.Another farmer from Ambala said that he even offered ration and medical services to his labourers, but they insisted on leaving due to the infection scare. The farmer said this time he may have to sow paddy seeds with the help of his family.This season comes as a test even for the state government after it altered some rules of paddy farming under the ‘mera paani, meri virasat’ scheme in many districts, including Ambala, owing to depleting water table in these areas.Terming the labour engaged in paddy sowing as a sociological aspect, Ambala deputy director of agriculture (DDA) Girish Nagpal said, “This will boost mechanisation of agriculture through DSR (direct seeding of rice) equipment that are in great demand nowadays and subsidies will also be dispersed for the same. While there is no study as of now on this elevating their profitability, but the technique will definitely make the sowing compact and timely.”About the new scheme, the DDA said, “In Ambala, availing the scheme is a choice as water depletion is not that bad. Till now, farmers with 1,000 acres of land have given their consent for it and we are hoping for more in the future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-in-ambala-anxious-over-labour-shortage-ahead-of-paddy-sowing-season/story-6pGilXvYoxBQQMI2WCwVQP.html
24-05-2020||City||Thane’s Covid cases cross 2,000||The number of Covid cases in Thane crossed 2,000 on Sunday with 127 new cases reported in the past 24 hours. The city’s tally is 2,018.Two deaths were also reported on Sunday.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “The total number of deaths in the city is 67. A 36-year-old man from Ambewadi died in Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital in Kalwa on May 18. A 52-year-old man died in the civil hospital on May 17.”The highest number of 37 cases was reported from Lokmanyanagar Sawarkarnagar area. Naupada recorded 15 new cases.Malvi added, “We have appointed Covid warriors in Nagsen Nagar, Khartan Road and Chendani areas of Naupada as the number of cases are increasing. There are 600 Covid warriors across the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-s-covid-cases-cross-2-000/story-BXMBXJTv4HRYb8PU882TeJ.html
24-05-2020||City||Gym owners in and around Chandigarh seek relaxations in lockdown rules||In a bid to salvage their businesses, members of the Tricity Gym Owners’ Association (TGOA) on Sunday wrote to the UT adviser and deputy commissioners of Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula seeking relaxations in lockdown norms.The tricity gyms had been shut around two months ago to contain the spread of Covid-19 and consequently the fitness sector has been reeling under losses. As many as 200 gym owners apprised the administrations of three cities the “near collapse” situation of the sector.Sanjeev Kumar, president of TGOA, said, “We were hoping for some relaxations during the fourth phase of the lockdown as the same has been extended to other industries such as beauty and wellness centres, which are also client interaction-based industries. However, the government has not allowed us to reopen our centres. This has not only created an uncertain future for our members, but also for about 3,000 employees and their families.”“There has been no income for employees (trainers, sales staff, spotters and house-keeping),” he added.Preetpal Sandhu, vice-president of TGOA, said, “We request the administration to help this industry survive. The administration should pass orders to landlords for waive off rents or defer the collection of rent for at least six months. Moreover, the administration should work out some financial package so that the centres are able to pay the salaries of staffers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gym-owners-in-and-around-chandigarh-seek-relaxations-in-lockdown-rules/story-Gdlj4xHl07YLyAV3C94fJK.html
24-05-2020||City||Pune NGOs help needy during Eid under lockdown||PUNE The Muslim community in the city gear up to celebrate Eid-ul-fitr on Monday amid the Covid-19 pandemic.This year the Eid al-Fitr will be a family affair for the community due to the restrictions in place due to the lockdown. The Eid al-Fitr marks the end of the fasting month of Ramadan and the festival is celebrated by giving zakat-al-fitr (charity in the form of food). Million Dollar Vegan India, international NGO, has organised a special Eid for the poor and needy, in collaboration with Haddiya Social Foundation in Kondhwa on Monday.Together, they will be serving vegan biryani for 2,000 people in the community kitchen set up by Haddiya Social Foundation, that has been serving cooked food ever since the lockdown began.Besides the biryani, they will also be serving sweet Sevaiya instead of the traditional sheer khurma. “The idea is to not just feed the needy but also create awareness about the pandemic and the precautions to take,” said Darshana Muzumdar, campaign manager, Million Dollar Vegan India .This NGO has also been donating dry rations to over 100 families each to sustain a household of four to five people for a complete month. The dry ration was distributed to people from Krishnanagar in Mohammadwadi to maids, daily labourers, electricians, plumbers, aurorickshaw drivers among others who had lost their jobs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-ngos-help-needy-during-eid-under-lockdown/story-n0xD4PvNmTNp9w2oJUDHWK.html
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||Suspended DSP booked for comparing Cong’s Patti MLA with Mughal governor||A suspended deputy superintendent of police (DSP) was booked in Tarn Taran for comparing Congress’ Patti MLA Harminder Singh Gill with Mughal governor of Lahore Zakariya Khan Bahadur, known for the persecution of Sikhs, in a post on social media site Facebook.Non-bailable charges were pressed against DSP Balwinder Singh Sekhon, who was suspended in December last year by the Punjab government for allegedly sending abusive and derogatory messages to state food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu when he was posted in Ludhiana. An inquiry was marked against him.The case was registered against him on Sunday under Sections 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups), 295-A (deliberate acts to outrage religious feelings), 500 (defamation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 66 of the Information Technology (IT) Act at the Patti city police station on the complaint of the MLA’s close aide Raj Karan Singh.In the first week of May, the Congress MLA had sparked a row as an audio of him demanding ‘courtesy call’ from Harike SHO Navdeep Singh had surfaced.The FB post, which was uploaded on Wednesday, reads, “…the station house officer (SHO) who made MLA Harminder Singh Gill’s threatening audio clip viral has been transferred..It is shameful for the police department. Such officers are obeying the dogs for saving their position”. The post also carries abusive and derogatory remarks and had pictures of Gill and the SHO.“By uploading derogatory remarks on Facebook, Sekhon is instigating hate between the police department and the government. He has also used derogatory comments against a DGP besides spreading hate on the basis of caste,” the MLA aide’s statement to the police read.Superintendent of police (SP-investigation) Jagjit Singh Walia said probe into the case was going on.Sekhon could not be contacted for comments.He had claimed that he was being targeted by the government at the behest of Ashu, who had a grudge against him since he conducted an inquiry into the illegal change of land use (CLU) case in a residential project in Ludhiana in which the minister’s role had also come under scanner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/suspended-dsp-booked-for-comparing-cong-s-patti-mla-with-mughal-governor/story-izpT4R3PLfl1qYxgM1VvhO.html
24-05-2020||City||Pune city reports 6 deaths, 179 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday||PUNE The city, on Sunday, reported six more deaths related to Covid-19 (coronavirus), caused by the Sars-Cov-2 virus, taking the virus-related death toll in the city to 254. In addition, 179 fresh Covid cases were reported within 24 hours, taking the total count of positive cases in Pune district to 4,782.One death was registered of a person from Solapur district admitted at the KEM Hospital, Pune and he suffered from pneumonia.The number of patients in critical care rose from 170 on Saturday , to 176 on Sunday. As many as 77 persons were discharged, after being declared cured of the virus; this puts the discharged count at 2,550.According to the information given by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health department, of the six deaths reported on Sunday, the youngest deceased was a 21-year-old male from Gultekadi admitted to Sassoon Hospital on May 22. He suffered from respiratory failure and pneumonia along with Covid-19.While other deceased patients were senior citizens, including a 63-year-old male from Bhavani peth admitted to Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital. Another 71-year-old female patient from Ganesh peth area admitted to KEM Hospital, both of them had acute renal failure and pneumonia due to which they died while undergoing treatment.The other three patients were 56-year-old female from Salisbury Park admitted to Sahyadri Hospital, Karve road, 71-year-old male patient from Yerawada admitted to Aundh Civil Hospital and 60-year-old female patient from Yerawada admitted to YCM Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-city-reports-6-deaths-179-fresh-covid-19-cases-on-sunday/story-hlJoPBqijiGYBAJSkiXkEI.html
24-05-2020||Pune||Deprived of work migrants want to return; request Maha-Metro to make travel arrangements||Migrant labourers who returned to their hometowns in March during the lockdown are now eager to return to Maharasthra to re-join work. Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Ltd (Maha-Metro) which is executing metro rail work in Pune has received requests from the labourers to arrange for their return journey.These labourers are from Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal and other states.According to officials around 50 per cent of total 2,800 Maha Metro work force has returned to their hometowns, hampering the work here.Atul Gadgil, director, Maha-Metro said, “We have got requests from many labourers that they want to re-join work after the break of two months. Due to pandemic they returned to their respective states but now want to return.”“ As train and bus services is not operational, Maha-Metro has written letters to various district administrations in other states mainly Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal and other states and requested to make arrangements for these labourers to return in Pune,” said Gadgil.“Right now we can’t give the exact figures of the labourers who want to return to re-join work,” said Gadgil.Gadgil said, “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic in India and Maharashtra, many labourers left work in March and returned home. No, as there is no source of income for them they want to return to work. So they have requested us to make arrangements for their return journey.”Gadgil said, “We wrote the letters to the district collectors of Bhopal, Vidisha and Raisen and others to permit labourers to travel from their district to Pune.”Maha-Metro is executing the metro work on two corridors in between Vanaz to Ramwadi and Pimpri to Swargate. Metro would require 7,000 to 8,000 workers for carrying out the work on various corridors. But due to Covid-19 many labourers flew away. Metro is working in hardly 25 per cent labour capacity.Gadgil said, “Right now only pre-monsoon related and underground tunnel work is going on by considering less work force. The district administration and Pune Municipal Corporation had permitted the metro to carry out the construction work activity during lockdown.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/deprived-of-work-migrants-want-to-return-request-maha-metro-to-make-travel-arrangements/story-HOWFtJ2vkab3JCEwq9geiI.html
24-05-2020||City||Ludhiana MLAs Kotli, Lakha urge Ashu to restore cancelled atta-dal cards||Khanna MLA Gurkirat Singh Kotli and Payal MLA Lakhbir Singh Lakha met Punjab food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Sunday and urged him to restore the cancelled atta-dal cards of Khanna and Payal constituencies.Kotli and Lakha told the minister that during the scrutiny of cards by the department, some cards of eligible beneficiaries were also cancelled by mistake.They urged the minister to review the cancelled cards and restore the genuine ones.They said they were committed to ensure that a maximum number of people get benefit of government welfare schemes.Ashu assured both MLAs to personally supervise the matter and ensure that cards of all eligible beneficiaries are restored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mlas-kotli-lakha-urge-ashu-to-restore-cancelled-atta-dal-cards/story-ynl9hAwm5IskjFQf4NqtXP.html
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||Ensure no migrant goes hungry, walks back home: Capt to DCs||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday directed the deputy commissioners (DCs) and district police chiefs to ensure that no migrant is forced to walk home to any other state in the country, or to remain hungry while in Punjab.Any migrant found walking on the road should be transported by bus by the police to the nearest place from where he can board a train or bus to his native state, the CM directed the DCs and the police officials, even as the 300th Shramik Special train left the state carrying migrants to Uttar Pradesh. Till they leave Punjab, they should be provided food and water, the CM directed the officials.The CM also urged the migrants not to panic assuring them that the state government would make sure that they will be assisted by the Punjab government in their return back home. Amarinder said more than 10 lakh persons have registered on the state portal for outbound movement from Punjab. The state government has undertaken a massive validation exercise of all registered persons by making individual phone calls to re-ascertain whether or not they are keen to return to their native states. “This is being done in view of the fact that, in the past 3-4 days, around two-thirds of the industrial units in the state have commenced operations after the easing of restrictions, following which the number of persons keen to travel out of Punjab has reduced considerably,” he said, terming it a welcome sign.However, the state government would continue to ply trains to the states concerned till such time persons evince desire to return home, said Amarinder, adding that the state government has had already paid Rs 20 crore to railways for free travel of migrant workers to their respective states following its decision in April month to provide them free travel and food.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ensure-no-migrant-goes-hungry-walks-back-home-capt-to-dcs/story-izBOVg29PFOY9geWcbUKTM.html
24-05-2020||City||Bus driver held in Ludhiana for ferrying passengers on expired pass||A bus driver in Ludhiana was arrested for ferrying more than the permitted number of passengers and that too on an expired pass. The accused has been identified as Gurdeep Singh of Daheru. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Gurmeet Singh said that the accused was stopped for checking near the Tajpur cut on Jalandhar-Delhi road. On inspecting his pass, police found that the accused had been given permission to ferry 27 passengers from Moga to Patna on May 19. However, he had 45 passengers in the bus. Besides, the names of the people in the list of people allowed to be ferried did not match with those on the bus. Following this, a case was registered under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 52 of the Disaster Management Act against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bus-driver-held-in-ludhiana-for-ferrying-passengers-on-expired-pass/story-zGFMR7jX7xEgiJgY8YtsAP.html
24-05-2020||City||Lohegaon airport awaiting final list of destinations, schedules||Pune’s Lohegaon international airport will resume domestic flight operations from Monday, May 25. Which destinations domestic flights will operate to, and from Pune, is a list that still has to be finalised by the higher authorities, a top Pune airport official said. “A meeting is going on in this regards and the destinations and schedule will be finalised,” Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh said, adding, “We are all set to run operations from the Pune airport once we get the finalised list of destinations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lohegaon-airport-awaiting-final-list-of-destinations-schedules/story-gexeBPxPiG1A7Labuu7dsM.html
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||Biker hits police barricades in attempt to flee, arrested||A 50-year-old man was arrested for crashing his motorcycle into police barricades while trying to escape from a checkpoint near the Sector 37/38 dividing road on Saturday.Police said Vijay Kant Mishra, a resident of Sector 40, was stopped by sub-inspector Ram Babu for random checking. Instead of stopping, he tried to flee but ended up hitting the barricades.Following a complaint, a case under Sections 279 (rash driving/riding on a public way) of the Indian Penal Code and the Motor Vehicles (MV) Act was registered against Mishra. He was arrested and later released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/biker-hits-police-barricades-in-attempt-to-flee-arrested/story-TgmOtcMAmm1Wd3U172tF5M.html
24-05-2020||City||Yarn worth lakhs gutted as woollen mill godown catches fire||Yarn worth lakhs of rupees was gutted after a massive fire broke out in a godown of RT Woollen Mills on RK Road near Cheema Chowk here on Sunday. No loss of life was reported as the mill was closed on account of a Sunday.As many as 50 fire tenders, including those hired from nearby districts, were pressed into service. The firefighting operation was still on when the report was filed.Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has directed deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Kumar Agrawal to look into the matter and submit a report.In his tweet the CM stated, “I have directed DC Ludhiana to look into the reasons behind the fire that broke out at RT Woollen Mills today. Luckily, there have been no casualties. The fire department took prompt action and prevented the fire from spreading and causing more damage.”Deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal has ordered a magisterial probe into the incident. He said sub-divisional magistrate (SDM, West) Amrinder Singh Malhi has been appointed the inquiry officer.Sub-fire officer (headquarters) Srishti Nath Sharma said, “We received a call about the fire at 12.30pm. Soon after receiving information, a firefighting team reached the spot and started operation to control the flames. As many as 50 fire tenders, including those hired from nearby districts, were pressed into service. The process is still on to douse the flames.” Nath said, “No loss of life was reported as mill was closed. We were told that the factory was locked. The reason behind the fire was not known yet. The fire broke out on the top floor of the three-storey building and spread to the lower floors.”Nath said the people, living in the neighbourhood, spotted the flames and informed the fire brigade. Nath said the incident had taken place in the same area where a fire had broken out in a factory three years ago.Firefighters were still dousing the flames emerging from gunny bags containing polyester yarn when this report was filed.Mill owner Tara Chand said one of his sons was wounded while helping the firefighters in dousing the flames. He suspected short circuit to be the reason behind fire incident.PREVIOUS INCIDENTYarn worth lakhs was also gutted after a godown of a yarn manufacturing unit in Machhiwara caught fire on May 10, also a Sunday.Over 100 fire tenders from nearby districts were pressed into service to douse the flames. The firefighting operation reportedly lasted for over 10 hours. Here, too, the cause of fire was not known.NO FIRE AUDIT SO FARIn 2018, a fire audit for the city was announced by the then local bodies minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, months after a plastic factory collapsed during a firefighting operation near the Suffiyan Chowk. As many as 16 people, including nine firefighters, had died in the incident that occurred on November 21, 2017.But, no audit has been conducted in the city so far and thousands of factories/commercial units continue to be run without fire safety measures and no objection certificate (NOC) and the city continues to sit on a powder keg.The fire audit commenced in March 2018, but was suspended within a month.At that time, fire brigade and municipal corporation (MC) officials claimed that all the buildings, including commercial and industrial, would be inspected and corrective steps taken. They were to inspected if units had stored highly inflammable or combustible material illegally.However, the fire brigade team could manage to inspect only 35 hospitals in different parts of the city and seven buildings in the Feroze Gandhi market.No follow-up was undertaken to check whether corrective steps had been taken by building owners or not. Senior officials gave the shortage of staff as the reason behind the same.‘FIRE DEPARTMENT ILL-EQUIPPED’A number of fire incidents take place during summer, but the fire department is allegedly ill-equipped to tackle the situation.The absence of a hydraulic ladder and the dilapidated condition of tenders are the major concerns of the department, but the MC and the local bodies department have not paid attention to these problems.Assistant divisional fire officer (ADFO) Bhupinder Singh said the process of procuring the firefighting equipment was delayed due to lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/yarn-worth-lakhs-gutted-as-woollen-mill-godown-catches-fire/story-519bGkDHYlTGLjh7qDEJ4I.html
24-05-2020||City||Balloon seller murdered amid drunken brawl in Mohali, one arrested||A 32-year-old balloon seller was murdered during a drunken brawl with three other men at the Phase7/8 lights point on Saturday night.The main accused, Pardeep, has been arrested, while two others are at large.“Pardeep attacked the victim, Haryanvi, with a sickle on his right arm during a fight between the inebriated men. The accused fled the spot leaving behind the victim in a pool of blood,” said Beant Singh, the investigation officer, from Phase 8 police station.Police reached the spot after a few minutes on getting information and took Haryanvi to the civil hospital, Phase 6, in an ambulance. However, he succumbed to his injuries on the way after revealing the names of the accused, Singh said. “A team of cops found Pardeep in Phase 7 after sometime, while two other accused, Pawan and Ranjit, are on the run. Pardeep’s three other accomplices were rounded up for questioning,” said inspector Rajnish Choudhary. The victim as well as the accused hail from Uttar Pradesh. They lived in the temporary hutments near the traffic lights of Phase 7. “We are interrogating Pardeep and he will be produced before the court on Monday,” Singh said. A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the three accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/balloon-seller-murdered-amid-drunken-brawl-in-mohali-one-arrested/story-dT7rCr3vX92xq0sr6xqItN.html
24-05-2020||City||Pune max temp forecast to hit 40 deg C||Parts of Maharashtra have witnessed the heat wave forecast by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), with temperatures in Nagpur at 46.7 degrees Celsius on Sunday, Pune recorded a maximum temperature of 39.8 degrees Celsius, 3.6 degrees higher than the normal, average temperature for this time of the year.According to the IMD the heat wave conditions are observed in parts of Maharashtra, apart from Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Telangana, due to a western disturbance and cyclonic circulation over the south east Arabian sea and its neighbourhoods.The weather department has forecast mercury to soar to 40 degrees Celsius in Pune, with a clear sky on May 25.However, by May 30, the city can expect thunder activity with lightning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-max-temp-forecast-to-hit-40-deg-c/story-Ao8pTZD0WBVkE9enJdFkkJ.html
24-05-2020||City||J&K reports 52 fresh Covid-19 infections, tally rises to 1,621||Fifty-two more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, taking the total number of cases in the Union territory to 1,621, officials said.Of the fresh infections, 30 were reported from Kashmir division—Anantnag, Kulgam, Baramulla, Shopian and Kupwara districts—where the tally has risen to 1,360. Twenty-two people have tested positive in Kathua, Udhampur, Samba, Rajouri and Jammu districts, where the count is now 261.Also, 35 more patients have recovered and were discharged from various hospitals in the UT, including 32 from Kashmir and three from Jammu division. Out of the total positive cases—734 in Kashmir and 75 in Jammu division– have recovered in J&K, so far.Kashmir has 607 active cases while 1,846 are in Jammu. So far, 21 people have died due to the virus in Jammu and Kashmir. According to officials at the SKIMS, the new cases are from various districts including 25 from Kulgam, 20 from Jammu, one each from Shopian and Baramulla districts. No reports from the Chest Disease hospital were received on Sunday due to the Eid holiday, officials said.Officials said more than 1,27,000 tests have been conducted in J&K so far and aggressive sampling has been increased. The surge in cases since last week has been attributed to the arrival of stranded residents from other states. However, with the restoration of flights from Monday, the testing will be increased as the government plans to set up separate testing kiosks at the Srinagar and Jammu airports. At Srinagar airport, 30 testing facilities have been created, officials said.Till date, 13,2594 people in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance—31,816 in home quarantine, 71 in hospital quarantine and 28,600 under home surveillance. Besides, 71,295 people have completed their 28-day surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-reports-52-fresh-covid-19-infections-tally-rises-to-1-621/story-WBJQx15DflYcDiVxhejSqL.html
24-05-2020||Mumbai||Scores of dead fish found along Boisar coast as lockdown restrictions on industries ease||Scores of dead Indian mullet fish were found dead along the Navapur coast in Boisar MIDC area since the ease of lockdown norms in the past few days. A zoologist has attributed to the deaths due to heavy pollution of discharge of effluents from the several chemical units lining the Navapur coast. Prior to the lockdown, no such incidents were reported.“The dead fish belongs to a local variety which is consumed by the locals. The incident was reported in Dandi-Navapur area in Boisar,” said Prof Bhushan Bhoir, zoologist, Sonopant Dandekar College, Palghar. “It seems the untreated effluents from the chemical units were discharged directly into the Navapur creek, leading to the deaths,” said Bhoir. Even the colour of the water has changed from brown to reddish since Friday evening, he said. Kundan Dhawne, member, Akhil Bharatiya Mangela Samaj Parishad has complained to the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), Tarapur to initiate action against the guilty chemical owners who discharged the effluents into the creek.Earlier during the lockdown period, the colour of the water was near clear and small fish which we could not see since the past decade started to swim around, said Dhawne. Within a span of just eight days since the restrictions on industries were lifted, the fish deaths have been reported, he said.Bhoir said, earlier the dissolved oxygen content (DO) in the Navapur Dandi creek was 4.5mg/litre while the same DO at Satpati was 7.2 mg/litre and Vadrai creek was 6.081 mg/litre. On the day when the fish deaths occurred, the DO was a mere 1.2 mg/lt. A minimum of 3.5 mg/lt oxygen is required in water for the marine species to survive, said Bhoir. Now with the industry resuming, the effluents are discharged into the creek. Because of this, the oxygen dissolved in water reacted with the chemicals. As a result, hypoxic conditions were created in the creek killing several small and young fish during the low tide. All adult fish travelled deep into the Arabian Sea and small fish suffered from hypoxia and died, said Bhoir.Manish Holkar, deputy regional officer, MPCB, Tarapur said, “We are aware of the fish deaths in Navapur-Dandi creek and we have collected the water as well as fish samples to ascertain the exact cause behind the deaths. We are waiting for the lab results and if the chemical units are found guilty, we will take punitive action against them, including issuing closure notices and disconnecting water and power supply to the errant units,” said Holkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/scores-of-dead-fish-found-along-boisar-coast-as-lockdown-restrictions-on-industries-ease/story-L6VWXjKOpEPOdp4NYeFfJI.html
24-05-2020||City||Fourlaning of Landran T-junction in Mohali on fast track, says Balbir Singh Sidhu||Health and family welfare minister of Punjab Balbir Singh Sidhu on Sunday took stock of the ongoing ₹25.33-crore road construction project at Landran T-junction on the Chandigarh-Landran-Chunni-Sirhind road.The minister said that the pace of the work had slackened owing to the lockdown but had gathered steam again. The work on the junction assumes all the more importance given the fact that scores of devotees pass through the junction on their way to Sri Fatehgarh Sahib. The minister said that the new junction would rid the area of the menace of traffic jams. Directing the public works department (PWD) officials to ensure quality and transparency, Sidhu asked them to keep checking the construction material at regular intervals.Meanwhile, the beautification of the 28-km stretch from Mohali to Sirhind by laying a premix is also underway. The 800-metre section of the two and a half km junction at Landran will be four-laned. The project will incur a total cost of ₹25.33 crore and will also include two slip roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fourlaning-of-landran-t-junction-in-mohali-on-fast-track-says-balbir-singh-sidhu/story-II2ExJJf31cgjqZmziczsL.html
24-05-2020||City||Thane collector appeals to tone down Eid on Monday||The Thane district collector has appealed to the residents to celebrate Eid in their homes and not step out or meet friends. At present, there are over 5,388 positive cases in Thane district, which is in the red zone. Rajesh Narvekar, district collector, said, “The state on May 19, issued guidelines for lockdown-4 which states that shrines will be closed for any religious gathering. Moreover, any religious meetings or processions cannot be held until May 31. I want to appeal to all the members of the Muslim community to stay indoors and celebrate Eid with their families. They can meet their friends and relatives on social media through video calls.”Several NGOs have also appealed to the people to stay home and not to visit the markets.For 12-year-old, Abdul Azizi Mukaddam, who resides in Mumbra, he will miss spending time with his friends and going to fun fares. “This year owing to the coronavirus pandemic, we will be celebrating the festival at home with family. There are three huge fun fares in Kausa and Mumbra area which I attend every year with friends, and we spend our Eidi on it, however, this year since there are no fares, I might use the money for some good cause. We did not buy any new clothes nor we did any shopping this year. My friends and I will pray for this crisis to end this Eid.”Eid on Monday will be a toned-down celebration for the entire Muslim community. There will be no hugs or handshakes but a mere salutation, no friends visiting to savour delicacies. The food carts selling delectable dishes too will be missed.Salma Ansari, 26, a resident of Kadar Palace in Kausa, who is associated with Parcham, an NGO, said, “Eid is all about calling friends, neighbours and relatives at home. This year this will be missed as my friends won’t be coming over for Eid. We might visit our next-door neighbours, but there will be no social gatherings.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-collector-appeals-to-tone-down-eid-on-monday/story-R15ISdPXk5bMkkAMpOgGqM.html
24-05-2020||City||Ludhiana man booked for raping school teacher for three years||Ludhiana police have booked a Gopal Nagar resident for raping a school teacher for the past three years and stealing ₹6 lakh from her bank account.The woman said that she narrated the incident to her husband, who took her to police station and lodged an FIR against the accused, identified as Mandeep Singh alias Honey of Gopal Nagar.The victim, 34, who is a teacher, said the accused’s father runs a tailor shop near her house and the accused was a regular visitor to her house since 2013.She said the accused first raped her in 2017, after forcing her to make physical relation with him stating he would kill her husband and children if she did not oblige him. The woman alleged that the accused continued to rape her for three years on the same pretext. In January this year, the accused stole her debit card and withdrew ₹6 lakh from her bank account after learning her debit card’s pin.Sub-inspector Jasvir Kaur, who is investigating the case, said that a case under Sections 376 (punishment for rape) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against the accused. A hunt is on to nab the accused, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-man-booked-for-raping-school-teacher-for-three-years/story-BxDsaBFwuEfBnbmD316mnJ.html
24-05-2020||Delhi||Conjoined twin babies joined from back and hip separated after 24-hour marathon surgery at AIIMS||Almost after one year and 10 months of their admission at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) the doctors at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) have finally succeeded in separating co-joined twins, who were attached from their back and hip.Conjoined twin girls were successfully separated in 24 hours long surgery that began at 8.30 a.m on Friday and continued past 9 a.m. on Saturday, May 23. A team of 64 healthcare workers participated in this over 24-hour long surgery and successfully separated the twins.The co-joined twin girls were brought to the medical institute when they were just 62 days old with fused lower parts of their bodies. Since, then the co-joined twins were under the close supervision of doctors headed by Dr Minu Bajpai, professor, department of paediatrics surgery.The babies were joined at the hips with a complex fusion of their spinal bones and spinal cords, intestines. There were abnormalities of the heart and major blood vessels along with a lack of adequate skin cover.“Prof. Randeep Guleria, AIIMS Director, took note of the need and promptly granted permission for the surgery to be undertaken even during the COVID-19 pandemic,” according to sources.The family of the twins hail from Uttar Pradesh, Badaun and their parents were counselled at various stages and major procedures in separating the co-joined twins, said a doctor.“Today, the co-joined twin girls are of 2 years of age. When their parents brought them to AIIMS, they were hardly two months old. At that stage, we did not want to separate them as we wanted their bodies to grow enough to bear huge challenges during the separation surgery,” said a doctor.“We were studying their cases, did their vital investigations and took multiple meetings to chalk out the plan for separation surgery.The surgery was successfully conducted by the Department of Paediatric Surgery along with assistance from Anaesthesiology, Plastic Surgery, and C.T.V.S.Department of Radiodiagnosis, Neurophysiology, Nuclear Medicine, Biochemistry, Nursing and Paramedical staff including C.M.E.T. also worked as a team for this 24 hours long operation.Doctors told ANI, “The process of anaesthesia was very challenging as both the girls have a hole in their hearts. Also, their fused spinal cord was creating a problem for bladder and movement of their body. We had to fix it up with the help of neuro-monitoring.”The process involved a team of 64 medical professionals including doctors, nurses, paramedics to conduct the 24-hour marathon surgery. “The reconstruction was lower parts of the bodies was another challenge as it involved reproductive organs,” they said adding that the twins would be able to become mothers in their adulthood.Another doctor said “Since there was only one passage to pass the stool, we have to create another passage for other child. We have to keep the separated twins in close observation for at least 48 hours. As of now, they are stable and their vital functions are doing well.”Experts say that it is a once in a lifetime surgery for any pedantic surgeon. Once the separation procedure starts, doctors have to keep the babies away from external exposure to avoid infections.Medically, conjoined twins fused from back and lower half of the bodies are very rare. Such kind of twins have four arms; one, two, three and four legs, and typically one external set of genitalia and anus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/conjoined-twin-babies-joined-from-back-and-hip-separated-after-24-hour-marathon-surgery-at-aiims/story-qXjvh40DVkl7nIe63SpUqK.html
24-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra Covid-19 tally 50,231; highest daily spike of 3,041 cases||Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 3041 COVID-19 cases, the highest daily spike, taking the state tally to 50231, a health official said.With 58 deaths due to the pandemic reported during the day, the death toll in the state rose to 1635, the official said.This was the eighth consecutive day when the state reported more than 2,000 new coronavirus cases, he said.Maharashtra COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 50231, new cases 3041, deaths 1635, discharged patients 14600, active cases 33988, people tested so far 362862.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-covid-19-tally-50-231-highest-daily-spike-of-3-041-cases/story-AibTLLYaOzFtIektPlrDFL.html
24-05-2020||City||On Eid, Kashmiris in quarantine centres miss home celebrations||Thousands of Kashmiris, who are admitted in quarantined centres, regret not being at home to celebrate Eid with family and friends.From prayers to multi-course feasts, they are missing everything about the festival.“We used to hold a grand celebration on Eid at home, but this time we are away and missing everyone desperately. This is our bad luck,” said a 30-year-old Uri resident admitted in JNV Shahkote quarantine centre in north Kashmir’s Boniyar tehsil.Another Baramulla resident, who has been in institutional isolation since May 10, misses the homemade wazwan. “Every year, we used to prepare a multi-course meal on Eid, but this time I couldn’t relish it. I wish to go home soon,” he said.A 25-year-old Kashmiri student pursuing education from Chandigarh, who is quarantined at a private hotel in Srinagar’s Lal Chowk area, criticised the administration’s callous approach towards them. “Nothing was done to make this Eid special for us. It was the routine menu and we were given only vegetables to eat,” he said.“I video called my folks to know how they were celebrating Eid. They were not enjoying the occasion without me,” said another student from a quarantine centre in South Kashmir’s Pulwama, who was evacuated from Gurugram recently. The valley wore a deserted look on Sunday, with fewer shoppers in the markets in the morning hours. Kashmir Chamber of Commerce Federation and Industries had said on Saturday that they faced losses worth crores of rupees due to the lockdown ahead of Eid.However, doctors and health workers remained on duty on Sunday. “Our full staff was on the job. The health of our people matters to us the most,” said Sameer Mattoo, Kashmir health services director.“We gave them better food today so they would feel as if celebrating Eid at home,” said Zahoor Ahmad Beigh, a paramedic posted at Boniyar primary health centre in Baramulla.Eid is being observed across Jammu and Kashmir and Kerala on Sunday, while the rest of the country will celebrate it on Monday.As per reports, no Eid prayers were offered in major mosques and shrines of Kashmir. However, prayers were offered in far-off villages while maintaining social distancing. In the cities, people preferred to offer prayers indoors.At present, over 50,000 people are under surveillance in over 10,000 government established quarantine centres in the valley.An official from the Kashmir administration said on the condition of anonymity, “The number of patients admitted to quarantine centres was so high that it was not possible to give them special treatment on Eid.”Last year, Eid-ul-Azha prayers were not offered in Kashmir due to the curfew followed by the abrogation of Article 370. This Eid-ul-Fitr marks the end of fasting month of Ramadan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/on-eid-kashmiris-in-quarantine-centres-miss-home-celebrations/story-kewM8jWxFkOxwmW4mF8EVO.html
24-05-2020||Mumbai||Man with alleged Maoist link nabbed for robbing Andheri petrol pump by ATS||The Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) Juhu unit arrested a 38-year-old man involved in more than 30 cases of robbery, dacoity and allegedly financing Maoist groups. The accused, Dalbir Singh Balwant Singh Rawat alias Raja alias Pappu Nepali was arrested on Saturday with a country-made pistol and three live cartridges when he came with the intention of conducting robbery at a petrol pump in Andheri (West). According to a press note by the ATS, Rawat along with his associates had robbed 16 kg of gold from a jewellery workshop in Andhra Pradesh’s Vijayawada in 2017 and he was still wanted in the case. Rawat has more than 30 past cases of robbery and dacoity in Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai.Following a tip-off, police inspector Daya Nayak of the Juhu ATS unit laid a trap at Mastkar Petrol pump and arrested Rawat.ATS have registered a case under Arms Act against Rawat and are conducting an inquiry to find out his alleged link with Maoist groups and also trying to find out that the medium through which he used to send money to Maoist group, said ATS officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-with-alleged-maoist-link-nabbed-for-robbing-andheri-petrol-pump-by-ats/story-xljNW5pjO7EHuxWQT5PnyJ.html
24-05-2020||City||Parcel booking gathers pace in Ludhiana||After the state government lifted the curfew in Punjab on May 18, the department of posts, Ludhiana, has witnessed a surge in parcel bookings, with people frequenting post office branches to place orders for medicines, registered posts and other articles. Against 150 to 200 parcel bookings a day during the curfew period, the number has now significantly gone up to 1,800-2,000 articles a day within a week of lifting of the restrictions.Amanpreet Singh, senior superintendent of post office, Ludhiana, said that as business operations are gradually coming back on track, the bookings for various parts of the country have increased. “Normally, we book 3,000 to 4,000 articles a day. We are expecting a further increase after May 31, when lockdown 4.0 is likely to end,” said Amanpreet Singh. Ludhiana senior superintendent of post office said the department staff have been taking all necessary measures concerning Covid-19. “We are following standard operating procedure (SOP) at every level to ensure that our staff remains safe while executing delivery of posts and articles reach people safely in a time-bound manner. There are foot operated hand sanitiser stands at the entrance of our offices for visitors and all parcels are sanitised before being dispatched,” he added. Officials said that they were also sanitising mail motor service (MMS) vehicles, mail boxes and its offices on a regular basis. Giving priority to medicines and medical aids, the department of posts, Punjab circle, has booked and delivered 18,723 articles since the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/parcel-booking-gathers-pace-in-ludhiana/story-ZjukWwt968t4LxUC0ZgyXL.html
24-05-2020||City||Air quality levels back to ‘poor’ after lockdown eased in Punjab||Air quality levels which had improved considerably over the last two months of lockdown and curfew to prevent the spread of Covid 19 have deteriorated after easing of restrictions by May 17 in Punjab. Stubble burning post wheat harvesting season is also adding to the problem.The air quality index (AQI) to monitor air pollution indicated unhealthy levels of 200 towards the end of May after recording a low of 36 in Punjab during the lockdown.On May 22, the industrial town Mandi Gobindgarh recorded an AQI of 242, which was in the very unhealthy bracket according to data from the National AQI of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCC).On May 23, the industrial hub of Ludhiana recorded AQI levels of 170. A month earlier, on March 23, it was 36.After harvesting season, increasing cases of stubble burning have added to the problem with 12,575 such cases recorded as against 10,357 cases last year.Pollution levels were increasing for a number of reasons, said Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) chairman Satwinder Singh Marwaha. “The resumption of industrial operations and vehicular pollution after relaxations in the lockdown coupled with farm fire incidences have gradually led to deterioration of air quality in Punjab.”Increasing dust particles in the air due to use of machines during wheat harvesting also added to poor air quality, he said.The AQI level from day one of lockdown on March 22 to April 14 before harvesting was recorded at less than 50 in major parts, including industrial towns.“With the start of the harvesting season after April 15, AQI levels started escalating to over 70 in the ‘satisfactory’ bracket. Now, it has reached ‘moderate’ levels at 150 and even crossed 200 in the past few days,” Marwaha added.PPCB member secretary Krunesh Garg said 12,575 cases of stubble burning had been reported up to May 23. “The board has taken serious note of these fire incidents and imposed environmental compensation of around Rs 40 lakh,” he said.Till date, the PPCB has registered FIRs against 322 farmers under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of IPC. Contending, however, that the farmers could not be held responsible for pollution all data pointed to air quality deteriorating after increase in vehicular pollution and industrial activities, Jagmohan Singh, state general secretary of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda), said, “Only scattered incidents of farm fire were reported as farmers listened to appeals of farmer unions not to burn stubble,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/air-quality-levels-back-to-poor-after-lockdown-eased-in-punjab/story-ihA7GSrIrzIR0FRTiBbTQI.html
24-05-2020||City||Prompt action of Covid war room officer saves life of a senior citizen||PUNE Acting promptly on an emergency call, Omprakash Bahiwal, officer, disaster management cell ,Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) saved life of senior citizen who fell unconscious at Shagun chowk. The incident took place at around 1.15pm on Saturday.As lockdown has been lifted in Pimpri-Chinchwad many people had gathered at a market near Shagun chowk. A senior citizen fell unconscious on the road, but due to the Covid-19 (coronavirus) fear no one dared to help the man.“The PCMC Covid war room received a call from an unknown person that a person fell unconscious on the road at Shagun chowk. PCMC disaster management cell officer Omprakash Bahiwal detected the location and reached the spot and admitted the patient at PCMC’s Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital”, said, Anna Bodade, assistant commissioner.As per the press release issued by PCMC the person’s condition is stable and he is kept under observation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/prompt-action-of-covid-war-room-officer-saves-life-of-a-senior-citizen/story-NJQo3vQH31hTKnovEmcVrO.html
24-05-2020||City||CPI(M) demands inquiry into ‘corruption’ in Himachal health department||Communist Party of India (Marxist) has expressed concern over corruption going on in the state’s health department and has demanded an impartial inquiry by a judge of the high court and stern actions against those found guilty.CPI(M) has also demanded the state government to publicise expenditures incurred on the pretext of coronavirus pandemic.CPI(M) leader Sanjay Chauhan said that more than 20 days have passed since the sanitiser scam in the secretariat was exposed but till now no concrete legal proceedings have been initiated.“The manner by which the state government is taking this investigation forward after the arrest of director health services after finding strong evidence in his house in a raid also raises questions on the intentions of the government as it is clear that more people are involved in this scam. Despite strong evidence, no action has been taken nor anybody linked to the scam has been arrested,” he said.Chauhan said that this clearly shows the nexus of politicians, bureaucracy and contractors and it will be a betrayal of democracy if the state government does not conduct an impartial investigation of this matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cpi-m-demands-inquiry-into-corruption-in-himachal-health-department/story-8UfTp1x25IAyASjYvG7TpO.html
24-05-2020||Mumbai||2 whales wash ashore Dahanu coast in a day||Carcasses of two whales were found on the coast of Dahanu within a span of less than 24 hours. On Saturday evening, the decomposed carcass of a 45 feet long and 8 feet wide Baleen whale was found near Parnaka, in Dahanu and on Sunday morning a Pygmy sperm whale was found at Bharwad beach in Bordi, Dahanu taluka.“It was a Baleen whale and we could not ascertain its weight as it was decomposed. Using an excavator, we dug a 6 feet deep pit near the coast and buried the carcass,” said Dhawal Kansara, member of the Wildlife Conservation and Animal Welfare Association(WCAWA), Dahanu. Whales are protected under schedule 1 of the Wildlife Protection Act 1972. On Sunday around 6am, a 6 feet long Pygmy sperm whale was also found at Bharwad beach. “The locals informed us and we reached the spot. We also intimated the forest department, Dahanu, and with the help of locals, dug a pit and buried the carcass,” added Kansara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-whales-wash-ashore-dahanu-coast-in-a-day/story-MUBPP8stc0p7HaKOCMTK9N.html
24-05-2020||City||J&K admn evacuates 89,773 stranded residents so far||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has so far brought back 89,773 residents, who were stranded outside the Union territory, in 28 special trains, four flights and various buses.As per the official figures, the administration evacuated 66,024 residents through the Lakhanpur border in buses, bringing home 23,097 stranded people via special trains that arrived at Jammu and Udhampur railway stations. Besides this, 652 passengers, including students, were brought in special flights under the Vande Bharat mission.Around 650 stranded passengers entered through Lakhanpur from May 23 to May 24 morning, while 767 came in the 11th special train which arrived at the Jammu railway station on Sunday. About 408 passengers reached Udhampur railway station from Thane on Sunday.So far, 11 trains have ferried a total of 9,634 stranded persons to Jammu, while 13,463 passengers have reached Udhampur in 17 special trains so far.The official communiqué added that of the 66,024 returnees that entered through Lakhanpur till May 24, 15,491 came from Punjab, 20,344 from Himachal Pardesh, 21 from Andhra Pardesh, 6,479 from Delhi, 1,348 from Gujrat, 2,688 from Rajasthan, 3,784 from Haryana, 149 from Chattisgarh, 3,351 from Uttarakhand, 1007 from Maharashtra, 4,269 from Uttar Pradesh, 63 from Odisha, 252 from Assam and 982 from Madhya Pradesh. As many as 88 had come from Dehradun, 1,104 from Chandigarh, 682 from Telengana, 106 from Karnataka, 13 from Tamil Nadu, 52 from Chennai, 296 from Bihar, 155 from West Bengal, 26 from Jharkhand, 3 from Nepal and 3,271 from other states and UTs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-admn-evacuates-89-773-stranded-residents-so-far/story-yxeKzo36sDoDCAgQkLZoBM.html
24-05-2020||Dehradun||With 54 fresh Covid-19 cases, Uttarakhand tally rises to 298||With 54 new Covid-19 cases of which maximum were from Nainital district, Uttarakhand reported 145 cases within 24 hours, taking the tally of total cases in the state to 298 till Sunday afternoon.According to the afternoon bulletin released by the state health department, 50 out of the 54 cases were reported from district Dehradun, Pauri, Chamoli, Tehri, Nainital, Champawat and Almora on May 23 at around 11:45 pm. All the positive cases have returned to the state from other parts of the country.Cases were reported from Dehradun (8), Pauri Garhwal (1), Chamoli (3), Tehri Garhwal (3), Nainital (32), Champawat (1), Almora (5) and Udham Singh Nagar (1).Most of the migrants have returned from places like Noida, Gurugram, Mumbai and New Delhi.With 87 cases being detected from Nainital district within 24 hours, all of whom returned from Maharashtra to Haridwar by train and then reached Haldwani by via bus, the district administration is now gearing up for more cases.Savin Bansal, district magistrate of Nainital said, “All migrants returning to the district, especially from red zones will mandatorily be put in institutional quarantine for a minimum seven days in Haldwani, before being allowed to travel to their destination districts. This will be done to prevent massive outbreak of coronavirus in the hilly and remote districts of the state.”“All our current patients were already quarantined at different facilities who all are being shifted to isolation wards in Susheela Tiwari Hospital in Haldwani. All guidelines of the Central government will be strictly followed in taking care of these patients. As these patients were all quarantined, they have not come in contact with many people from outside apart from the ones at the quarantine facilities,” added Bansal.On Saturday, Uttarakhand reported its biggest single-day jump with 91 cases being reported in one day. Fifty-five of these 91, were reported in Nainital who had returned from Maharashtra, said health officials. So far, over 200 migrants have tested positive for Covid-19 in Uttarakhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/with-54-fresh-covid-19-cases-uttarakhand-tally-rises-to-298/story-GrckMlqIK0vjg3neNWwITJ.html
24-05-2020||City||Top floor of three-storey house in Shimla gutted in fire||A massive fire broke out in a three-storey house in Himachal Pradesh’s Shimla district on Sunday. However, no casualty was reported in the incident.The incident took place in the wee hours of Sunday. The top floor of the house, made of wood, was completely gutted in the fire. Five fire tenders and police rushed to the spot and put out the fire. Forest officials and deputy commissioner also reached the spot.The house belonged to Sirendra Mohan Khullar and items worth ₹15 lakh were gutted in the fire.Superintendent of Police (SP) Shimla Omapati Jamwal confirmed the report and said the cause of the fire is being ascertained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/top-floor-of-three-storey-house-in-shimla-gutted-in-fire/story-SB8NtKniJXWDpRzxmTC6qO.html
24-05-2020||City||Congress leader seeks CBI probe into Himachal health department scam||Senior Congress leader and former minister Sudhir Sharma on Sunday said the Himachal Pradesh high court should take suo moto cognizance of the alleged scam in the health department to ensure a fair probe or the investigation must be handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).In a statement issued here, Sharma said, “If a person faces serious allegations of corruption, he is taken into 15-day police remand so that he can be interrogated. It is also necessary that the person in question may not destroy the material evidence necessary to take the case to a logical end. However, in this case, the accused officer AK Gupta, a former director of health department, was first called for questioning and later he was shifted to hospital.”“The vigilance and anti-corruption bureau should have sought police remand for him but they agreed to the judicial custody which is a big mistake,” he said, adding that this provides the accused officer an opportunity to temper with the material evidence or eliminate them. “Something is fishy in the whole episode. Is there any connivance between the police or the accused? Has the accused been intentionally sent to judicial custody instead of police remand?” Sharma said.He said the accused officer cannot be interrogated in judicial custody and he may have been manipulating the evidences and witnesses.Sharma said the second person heard in the audiotape involving the officer that went viral in media is said to be politically influential and police have not arrested him yet. “Need of the hour is that the high court takes cognizance to ensure a free probe or the investigation must be handed over to CBI,” he added.On May 20, the state vigilance bureau had arrested the director of health services on graft charges after an audiotape of his telephonic conversation with a supplier surfaced. He is heard talking about some payment apparently in some equipment purchase deal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-leader-seeks-cbi-probe-into-himachal-health-department-scam/story-UcX8lwiGFqT7zUaeh0aKKP.html
24-05-2020||City||All issues related to power bills will be resolved: Himachal electricity board||Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Limited (HPSEBL) on Sunday said due to extraordinary circumstances prevailing in view of COVID-19 outbreak, bills for the electricity consumption for March were generated on average bills of previous year’s consumption in the same month.The electricity board has been drawing flakes for hefty bills during the lockdown period. An HPSEBL spokesperson said the process to adjust the bills generated with the actual meter reading has been initiated. “The HPSEBL sub-divisions have been instructed to redress billing issues raised by the consumers in compliance with the instructions issued by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur,” he said.The spokesperson said aggrieved consumers may take up the matter of rectification in the bill in their concerned sub-divisional offices. “HPSEBL assures every consumer of the state that they will be billed for the actual electricity consumption based on the actual reading, including subsidy being given by the state government,” he said, adding that the same will be reflected in the forthcoming electricity bills.He said all grievances of the consumers will be resolved immediately. The Board has also advised consumers to contact toll free number 1912 or 1800-180-8060 for any information or help in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/all-issues-related-to-power-bills-will-be-resolved-himachal-electricity-board/story-elb7EGOBThE5T5antvDhPJ.html
24-05-2020||City||Congress surprised over CM’s statement to make Himachal quarantine destination||Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee president Kuldeep Rathore on Sunday lashed out at chief minister Jai Ram Thakur over his recent statement of exploring ways to promote the hill state as a quarantine destination to boost tourism.In a statement issued here, Rathore asked the chief minister to take “practical decisions after due consideration” for reviving the state’s economy. “It is not only wrong to present Himachal as a quarantine destination but it may also prove dangerous for the state… The Congress would not accept this decision to give an open invitation to the pandemic,” Rathore said.He said that the state government is not able to control the situation and this decision will be an open invitation for the pandemic as making the state a quarantine destination will increase coronavirus cases.While expressing concern over increasing Covid-19 cases in the state, Rathore said that state government is not able to prevent the coronavirus pandemic and amid such a situation, CM’s efforts of reviving the economy of tourism and hotel industry by making Himachal a quarantine destination will prove to be an anti-people decision.Thakur had recently told a private news channel that the state government might promote Himachal Pradesh as a quarantine destination by converting its hotels into quarantine centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-surprised-over-cm-s-statement-to-make-himachal-quarantine-destination/story-8QzYw4K39eDRWXO9AbGCtK.html
24-05-2020||Bangalore||Coronavirus cases breach 2,000 mark in Karnataka; 97 new cases||Covid-19 cases in Karnataka breached the 2,000 mark on Sunday with the detection of 97 cases, most of them returnees to the state from Maharashtra, the health department said.It said the total number of positive cases was now 2,056, including 634 discharges, 1,378 active cases and 42 deaths Of the total number of cases, 73 had returned from Maharashtra and 41 among them were women.Giving the break up of cases, it said 26 patients were from Chikkaballapura, 18 from Udupi, 15 from Mandya, 14 from Hassan, six each from Kalaburagi and Yadagiri, four from Davangere, two each from Tumakuru and Uttara Kannada and one each from Kodagu, Vijayapura, Dakshina Kannada and Dharwad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/coronavirus-cases-breach-2-000-mark-in-karnataka-97-new-cases/story-4080CBPRhbYgXZNsIAWMUI.html
24-05-2020||City||J&K admn deploys officers to assist coronavirus mitigation efforts||In an effort to ensure effective Covid-19 mitigation measures in view of resumption of air services in the country, the Jammu and Kashmir administration has deployed Jammu MC commissioner Avny Lavasa and vice-chairman of Jammu Development Authority, Babila Rakwal for assisting deputy commissioner Sushma Chauhan in making arrangements and handling of returning passengers.As per the order issued in this regard by the general administration department, director of Kashmir industries and commerce Mahmood Shah and vice-chairman of Lakes and Waterways Development Authority Tufail Mattoo have also been deployed to assist the principal secretary of Housing and Urban Development (nodal officer, Srinagar Airport) in this regard.Pertinently, the officers have been deployed in addition to their own duties.The Jammu, Srinagar and Leh airports have made elaborate arrangements for the resumption of domestic flights.Like in other parts of the country, the passenger flights from the Jammu, Srinagar and Leh airports, which are managed by the Airport Authority of India (AAI), were suspended with effect from March 25 when the nationwide lockdown came into force to combat the coronavirus pandemic.Civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh announced that domestic flights would resume from May 25 onwards in a calibrated manner and Airport Authority of India has issued standard operating procedures (SOP) to the airport operators across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-admn-deploys-officers-to-assist-coronavirus-mitigation-efforts/story-owwwmaQ8jPZwzoyYZVGmuM.html
24-05-2020||City||Flights to Kangra, Kullu in HP resumes on Monday||After a two-month break due to Covid-19 outbreak, the Kangra airport at Gaggal and the Kullu-Manali airport at Bhuntar are ready to resume operations with domestic flights from Monday.Kangra will see three flights daily from Delhi and Chandigarh and one flight from Delhi to Bhuntar.The flights to Shimla airport are likely to resume in the first week of June.Kangra airport director Kamal Kishor Sharma said that Air India will operate two flights while private airliner Spice Jet will operate one.“The first flight by Spicejet will land in Kangra at 12:20 pm. It will take off from Delhi at 11 am. The second flight by Air India that flies at 11 am from Delhi will land at 12:45 pm in Kangra. It will depart at 4:45 pm and will arrive in Delhi at 6:30 pm,” said Sharma.One flight by Air India will operate on Dharamshala-Chandigarh route. It will depart at 1:25 pm from Kangra and reach Chandigarh at 2:25pm. The return flight will depart from Chandigarh at 3:05 pm and land in Kangra at 4:05 pm.Operations at Kangra airport were suspended on March 22, two days before the countrywide lockdown was imposed.VALID ADDRESS PROOF, PASS MUSTMeanwhile, Kangra district administration has issued few guidelines for flyers coming to the district.Deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said that only persons with a valid address proof of Himachal should book flights coming to Kangra.“The incoming Himachal residents will have to obtain an entry pass from the deputy commissioner of the district. It has to be produced at the airport after landing. So, plan your travel accordingly,” he said.People coming from red zones and those having influenza-like symptoms will be placed under institutional quarantine, Prajapati said.Any other person, who is not resident of Himachal or is a tourist, will not be allowed to enter. They shall be immediately put under institutional quarantine and sent back on their own expenses.Prajapati said that the airport staff has been directed to maintain social distancing. The premises will be sanitised and there will be arrangements for thermal screening of the passengers.ONE AIR INDIA FLIGHT TO BHUTARMeanwhile, Air India will also operate one flight to Kullu-Manali airport in Kullu district daily. Kullu-Manali airport director Neeraj Kumar Shrivastav said that the flight will depart from Delhi at 7:10 am and arrive at Bhuntar at 8:30 am.Return flight will take off at 9:10 am and will reach Delhi at 10:30 am.Before lockdown, Kangra airport used to receive four flights a day while Kullu had one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/flights-to-kangra-kullu-in-hp-resumes-on-monday/story-Z5Hj8NT7KtclCYXQXu3fCP.html
24-05-2020||Mumbai||State duration for SRA building acquired for Covid-19 patients, compensation to be paid: HC to BMC||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to respond to an Andheri developer’s plea seeking clarification on how long the civic body will keep possession of a building constructed under the Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) scheme. BMC took possession of the completed building to use it as a quarantine facility for Covid-19 patients but did not inform on the duration or amount of compensation it would pay, hence the developer approached the court.A division bench of justices R D Dhanuka and Abhay Ahuja while hearing a petition filed by Sahyog Homes was informed by advocate Nilesh Gala, through video conferencing, that the developer had undertaken an SRA project at Andheri and had completed construction of a couple of buildings. However, construction of some buildings was held as the civic body had not issued other certificates required to continue work on the project.Gala further submitted that as the building acquired by the BMC did not have the occupation certificate or the no-objection certificate in the event of any untoward incident, the civic body would be solely responsible and the developer could not be held answerable for it. He also stated that in light of this, the court should direct the BMC to expedite granting of certificates for the completed buildings in the project as well as disclose the duration till when the building would remain in its custody.Additional government pleader Jyoti Chavan submitted that the state had not been served a copy of the petition. After hearing the petitioner’s claim, she informed the bench that a similar petition had come up earlier on May 11 with almost identical prayers and hence both petitions should be heard together.After hearing the submissions, the bench directed advocate Rupali Adhate for the civic body to file an affidavit within two weeks and to mention the period for which the building was requisitioned and the compensation amount that would be paid to the petitioner. It then posted the petition to be heard along with the earlier petition on June 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-duration-for-sra-building-acquired-for-covid-19-patients-compensation-to-be-paid-hc-to-bmc/story-sYTT9NYpptpNWkKW1H4ulM.html
24-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai man booked for assaulting wife over ‘tasteless’ khichdi||A 39-year-old Mumbai man has been booked by the police for allegedly assaulting his wife over the khichdi she had cooked, officials said on Sunday.The accused identified as Abhijeet Sonkule works as a manager in a private company and his wife Jyoti Sonkule is a clerk, according to police. They live in JB Nagar in Andheri (East), they said.“We have registered the case and investigating the matter,” Vijay Belge, senior inspector from Andheri police station, said.Jyoti said in her statement to the police she was assaulted by Abhijeet on May 22 as he did not like the khichdi she had cooked. She added that her husband fights with her on small issues. They have been married since December 2017.He abused her verbally, then entered into the kitchen and picked up a rolling pin lying nearby to hit her on her stomach, chest and nose.She started bleeding profusely from her nose due to the beating and screamed for help. Abhijeet threatened her saying that he would kill her as she called for help, Jyoti told the police.Neighbours came to her rescue as they heard her screams and she was rushed to Cooper Hospital for treatment.Abhijeet has been booked under sections 324, 323, 504 and 506 (2) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-booked-for-assaulting-wife-over-tasteless-khichdi/story-3mQwkpQUdCOcwjLHLJvWbL.html
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||Newborn dies as Chandigarh records 29 Covid cases in biggest single-day spike||A three-day-old girl became the fourth fatality linked to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Chandigarh on Sunday, as the city also witnessed its biggest single-day spike, with 29 infections reported. The number of confirmed cases in the city has climbed up to 262, of which 72 remain active. The newborn’s parents are from Dadumajra. After her birth at the civil hospital in Sector 22, she was reported to be brought dead at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education at 11pm on Saturday. She was reported to be Covid-19 positive posthumously on Sunday.Her mother’s reports are awaited, even as national guidelines call for sampling of pregnant women before delivery.Meanwhile, there is no let-up in the number of infections in the congested Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26, as 28 fresh cases were reported there on Sunday, taking the colony’s count to 189, 72% of the city’s total.This is also steepest increase in the number of cases in Chandigarh, the last being on May 9, when 20 infections were reported. Among the fresh cases in the colony, 11 are males, 11 are females and identities of six were unknown at the time of filing of this report. In morning, five cases were reported: four women, two aged 30 and two others 23 and 37, and a male aged 18.In the reports received in the afternoon, nine more cases were reported, including six males, aged between 14 to 42 years, of three households in the same building, and three males, aged 28, 38 and 45, from two households in another building.Later in the evening, eight cases were reported from four households: six females, aged 6, 18, 23, 25, 28 and 50, and two males, aged three and 32. Six more were reported at night.No fresh Covid-19 case in Mohali for 14 daysBesides not a single active Covid-19 case left, there has been no fresh infection reported in Mohali district for the past 14 days. The last case was reported on May 10 while the two remaining patients were discharged on May 21.In the past two months, the district has recorded 105 Covid-19 cases, of which 102 people defeated the virus while three succumbed. In the past two weeks, the health department has been taking around 100 samples from the entire district every day, but all have tested negative so far.While urging people to take precautions, civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said: “We have to wait for 14 days after the last positive case to declare the district virus-free.”Meanwhile, Panchkula has recorded 25 cases, of which only one remains active. While 23 people were cured, a woman patient under treatment died of heart attack hours after testing negative for Covid-19 and was not accounted for among fatalities due to the infection.SEVEN DEATHS IN TRICITYMarch 31: A 65-year-old man from Nayagaon dies of Covid-19 at the PGIMER, becoming Mohali district and tricity’s first fatality April 6: A 74-year-old woman tests positive for Covid-19 two days after her death at the Kharar civil hospital, becoming Mohali’s second fatalityMay 3: Chandigarh records first death, as an 82-year-old woman, who was a resident of Sector 18 and undergoing treatment at a hospital in Panchkula, succumbs to Covid-19May 7: A 74-year-old man from Zirakpur dies at a private hospital in Panchkula, becoming Mohali’s third Covid-19 fatalityMay 8: Chandigarh’s second fatality reported after a man from Hallomajra tests positive for Covid-19, two days after his death at GMSH-16May 9: A 62-year-old man of Bapu Dham Colony tests positive posthumously at GMCH-32, taking number of fatalities in Chandigarh to threeMay 24: A three-day-old girl delivered by a Dadumajra woman becomes Chandigarh’s fourth fatality after testing positive a day after death||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/5-covid-19-cases-reported-from-bapu-dham-colony/story-biRIljmdKXlVIRaGnPGLfJ.html
24-05-2020||City||12 more test positive in Himachal, count climbs to 197||Twelve people, including four of a family tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh late on Saturday and Sunday, taking the state’s tally to 197.Four cases were reported in Una two each in Kangra and Hamirpur and one each in Solan, Bilaspur, Chamba and Mandi. With this, active cases in the state have gone up to 131, said special secretary (health) Nipun Jindal.Back from MumbaiThe three family members testing positive on Saturday include a 47-year-old woman and her two sons aged 23 and 26. A 44-year-old brother-in-law of the woman has also tested positive. All from Bangana subdivision, they had returned from Mumbai on May 17 and were under institutional quarantine at Una.One case was also reported from Ramshehar of Nalagarh subdivision in Solan district on Saturday night. The 43-year-old man was under institutional quarantine after coming in from West Bengal on May 19.Kangra hits 50Meanwhile, two cases were reported from Kangra early on Sunday, taking its tally to 51. A 42-year-old man had travelled from Delhi and was under institutional quarantine at Baijnath. Another, patient a 48-year-old taxi driver came from Mumbai on May 14 along with three others from Hamirpur. He hails from Jawalamukhi area and was under home quarantine due to some medical condition.Thirty-seven cases are active with 13 recoveries and one death.A 20-year-old woman from the Barsar area of Hamirpur who came back with her family from Delhi on May 18 has also tested positive. She was under institutional quarantine. Another person tested positive late evening. Three more people tested positive in Chamba, Mandi and Bilaspur in the afternoon.The Bilaspur patient, a 48-year-old man, who originally hails from Jogindernagar of Mandi, returned from Delhi along with three others and was quarantined at Swarghat. Covid-19 report of his co-travellers is awaited.A 30-year-old man, who travelled from Mumbai, has also tested positive in Chamba. The patient from Mandi is a 19-year-old woman who returned from Mumbai with her parents and was under institutional quarantine. All the patients have been shifted to Covid-care centre.Himachal has had a spurt in Covid-19 cases after May 4 with 157 people testing positive and 87 cases in last four days.The biggest single-day spike was reported on Thursday with 42 cases.Hamirpur is the worst-hit district with 62 cases followed by Kangra with 51 cases.Twenty-four cases have been reported in Una, 20 in Solan, 14 in Chamba, 11 in Mandi, eight in Bilaspur, four in Sirmaur, two in Shimla and one in Kullu.A total of 59 people have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-more-test-positive-in-hp-count-climbs-to-191/story-dbrBYokBi75sbsPOYH4R2M.html
24-05-2020||Mumbai||Police hunt for drug addict who murdered sadhu, friend in Maharashtra’s Nanded||Police in Maharashtra’s Nanded district have launched a manhunt for a 25-year-old drug addict who allegedly killed two people, including a 33-year-old sadhu (seer), in a village early on Sunday. Locals discovered the bodies of Swami Rudra Pratap Maharaj and Bhagwan Shinde, 50, inside the Sri Nirvani Math in Nagthana village and informed the police about the murders. Vijay Kumar Magar, the superintendent of police of Nanded, confirmed the murders.“The accused, Sainath Lingare, is a resident of the same village in Nagthana and managed to flee. We have been searching for him,” Magar said.Magar said Lingare is a drug addict and has been booked for car thefts in the past. He also said Lingare and Shinde knew each other and they were seen together on Saturday evening. As per preliminary inquiry, it appears that Lingare was planning to break into the ashram but Shinde did not support him so he strangled him in a fit of rage around 1am on Sunday, said Magar.Lingare then came to the ashram and killed the sadhu at 4am in his room by strangling him. There were three to four people inside the ashram but they were sleeping in another room and did not hear the ruckus. Magar said Langare fled from the spot after killing the sadhu. There is also an injury mark on Shinde’s body and police are trying to find out the object Lingare used to kill him, added Magar.Umri Police have registered a case of murder against Lingare under sections 302 (murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender), 452 (House-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal code (IPC).Umri Police have been inquiring if any valuables are missing from the ashram, added the officer. The murders come more than a month after three people, including two seers, were lynched by a mob in Gadchinchale village of Palghar district. More than 160 people, including minors, have been arrested by the state’s Criminal Investigation Department, which is probing the Palghar lynching case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/police-hunt-for-drug-addict-who-murdered-sadhu-friend-in-maharashtra-s-nanded/story-q9IML69EPbtdvj5LeA0kqJ.html
24-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra extends medical cover under Mahatma Phule scheme||The Maharashtra government extended medical cover under the state’s Mahatma Jyotiba Phule health insurance scheme to all people in the state.While this decision was announced by health minister Rajesh Tope a few days ago, the government resolution (GR) on it was issued on Saturday.The GR said the decision will be applicable till July 31, and COVID-19 and non-COVID treatments will be covered in all empaneled hospitals.At present 2.23 crore people are covered under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule and Pradhan Mantri Janarogya schemes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-extends-medical-cover-under-mahatma-phule-scheme/story-2JNd3ELIP1t5PjvQkDlj8K.html
24-05-2020||City||BJP leader who jumped off balcony expelled for six years||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has expelled its Karnal leader Chander Prakash Kathuria from the primary membership of the party for six years.The action comes two days after a video, purportedly shot after he jumped off the second floor of a building in Chandigarh’s Sector 63, surfaced on the social media. Though the exact reason behind the step could not ascertained, it is learnt that the leader, 51, was reportedly visiting a woman in the apartment for some official work when another person whom he did not want to meet turned up there. In a bid to avoid running into the person, Kathuria reportedly tried to descend from the balcony with the help of a cloth, and fell down after losing grip. He has been admitted at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, with a fractured leg.Meanwhile, the reason behind the leader’s expulsion from party was not mentioned in the letter issued by state BJP president Subhash Barala. Jagmohan Anand, BJP’s Karnal district president, said, “Yes he has been expelled from the party for six years on the basis of a video, which raised questions on his character.”Kathuria, 51, former chairman of Sugerfed, was special invitee of the state executive committee of the BJP.He hails from Karnal and had unsuccessfully fought the 2009 assembly elections on a BJP ticket from the constituency. He had also sought a BJP ticket for Karnal during the Lok Sabha elections in 2019. Kathuria could not be contacted for his reaction over the expulsion as he did not respond the phone calls and text messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-leader-who-jumped-off-balcony-expelled-for-six-years/story-n41erSfhIxF0eSVnbvwL3H.html
24-05-2020||Bangalore||First ‘Sunday curfew’ gets underway in Karnataka||The first ‘Sunday curfew’ imposed by the Karnataka government to try and contain the spread of COVID-19 got underway in the state today, with people by and large adhering to norms, roads wearing a deserted look and almost no vehicular traffic, barring essential services. With barricades being up across most roads in the state, people ventured out only to purchase groceries, vegetabes and medicines. Instances of violation of Sunday curfew lockdown norms were reported in COVID-19 hotspots of Shivajinagar and Rayapura in Bengaluru and Nelamangala and Devanahalli. Temples, malls, bars, eateries and small food joints remained shut throughout state. In most parts of the state buses, autorickshaws and cabs did not ply. In Bengaluru, the ever bustling Majestic area, which houses the central city bus stand, inter-city bus stand, Metro Railway Station and the City Railway Station, did not see any activity as buses did not ply and all shops were shut, police said. Reports from Mysuru, Tumakuru, Kolar, Mangaluru, Udupi and other towns across the state said there were no lockdown violations. Amid the rigid curfew marriages were conducted in a simple manner in various parts of the state like Gollarahatti and Yashwanthapura in Bengaluru and also in Davangere. Families of the brides and grooms invited only a few people for the event, adhered to social distancing norms and wore masks. In Gollarahatti, the event organisers cleaned the road, after which the invitees, who were hardly 25 to 30 in number, sat down to have a feast. The Karnataka government had eased restrictions during Lockdown 4 for start of economic activities like city buses, inter-district bus service, intrastate train services, opening of shops and markets. However, the government had made it clear that there will be ‘Janata Curfew’ every Sunday during which only essential services would be permitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/first-sunday-curfew-gets-underway-in-karnataka/story-ibDNJ0U2Cd8pjcAqxMnH5M.html
24-05-2020||Jaipur||52 fresh cases, 1 more death due to Covid-19 in Rajasthan||One death due to coronavirus and 52 fresh positive cases of the disease were reported in Rajasthan on Sunday, according to the state government.With one death reported from Chittorgarh, the number of fatalities in the state has gone up to 161 on Sunday morning, an official said. The number of coronavirus positive cases has increased to 6,794 in the state. Of the new positive cases, Jaipur and Ajmer have reported the maximum number of 18 each, the official said.Nagaur and Dungarpur recorded four cases each while two cases each were reported from Bikaner and Barmer and one case each reported from Jhunjhunu, Kota, Dausa and Jodhpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/52-fresh-cases-1-more-death-due-to-covid-19-in-rajasthan/story-wwe5cH2nqh0OlBOezRyC4K.html
24-05-2020||Ranchi||3 more Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand, state tally reaches 353||Three more Covid-19 cases have been reported from Jharkhand, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the state to 353 on Sunday, informed the state Health Department.The three new cases are from Jamshedpur city, it added.So far, a total of three people have lost their lives to the infection in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/3-more-covid-19-cases-in-jharkhand-state-tally-reaches-353/story-gmncRAJq6E6UPys6W4uaYK.html
24-05-2020||Patna||Patna’s Mahavir temple to allow devotees in specified time slots based on their names||Devotees will be allowed to visit Patna’s Mahavir temple during specified time slots based on the alphabetical order in their names so as to ensure the strict compliance of the norms of social distancing, once the temple reopens after the coronavirus lockdown ends. Temple authorities have decided to divide the temple visit timings into hourly slots according to alphabets in the name of devotees. “We have decided that timings will be divided into hourly slots according to alphabets, for example, people with names starting from A and B can visit from 7 am to 8 am. Also, alphabets will be assigned for a particular day. Bookings will be done online”, said Kishore Kunal, secretary of the temple trust. The congregation of devotes at religious places was banned by the government when the lockdown was imposed first on March 25 to stifle the spread of coronavirus in the country.The country is now in the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown which is in force with certain relaxations. This phase will continue until May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/patna-s-mahavir-temple-to-allow-devotees-in-specified-time-slots-based-on-their-names/story-UANp6whZ06G554lArJXt9K.html
24-05-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 cases cross 13,000-mark in Delhi, death toll rises to 261||The novel coronavirus death toll in Delhi rose to 261 on Sunday, while the number of infections climbed to 13,418 with 508 new cases, the government said.A total of 6,540 patients have recovered, while 6,617 are undergoing treatment, according to a health bulletin. The city has 86 containment zones.On Saturday, the number of coronavirus cases in the city was 12,910 and fatalities 231.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-cases-cross-13-000-mark-in-delhi-death-toll-rises-to-261/story-sgVabEhJB6TcKSo1dfPZxM.html
24-05-2020||Kolkata||Indian Army, NDRF conduct restoration work in Kolkata after Cyclone Amphan||Indian Army and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) on Sunday conducted restoration work at Purna Das Road in south Kolkata, following cyclone Amphan.“Four to five teams of Indian Army have been deployed across Kolkata. We are doing our work and will complete it soon. The problem we are facing right now in cutting trees. Some of the trees have not fallen on the ground some are stuck in the electric cables so we are cutting them one by one and pushing them off the roads which is taking time,” Captain Vikram from Indian Army’s Corps of Engineers told ANI.On Saturday, the Central Government sent five columns of Indian Army to help the state restore infrastructure in Kolkata.The Centre took this decision after receiving a request from the West Bengal government.”Based on the request from the Government of West Bengal, five columns were deployed today in the state to assist the civil administration in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan. They will be providing assistance in road clearance work tomorrow as well,” the statement from Indian Army read.Cyclone Amphan made landfall around 20 kilometres east of Sagar Island in the Sunderbans on Wednesday afternoon snapping telecommunications, power lines and cutting roads links. Due to the cyclone, more than 80 people have lost their lives across West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/indian-army-ndrf-conduct-restoration-work-in-kolkata-after-cyclone-amphan/story-qL1hkoMdQoZard00fdIKTP.html
24-05-2020||Lucknow||UP govt banned mobile phones inside Covid-19 hospitals to hide their poor condition: Akhilesh Yadav||Questioning the Uttar Pradesh government’s decision to prohibit coronavirus patients from using mobile phones inside isolation wards of COVID-19 hospitals, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday said the ban was put in place to hide the “poor condition” of hospitals in the state. In a tweet in hindi, the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said: “If infection spreads through mobile phones, then they should be banned across the country. Mobile phones provide mental support and help cope with loneliness.” “In fact, the ban has been put in place, so that the truth about the poor condition of hospitals does reach the common public. The need is to sanitise mobile phones and not impose a ban on them,” he said.Director General Medical Education K K Gupta has directed all the medical universities, institutes, private and government hospitals to ban the use of mobile phones by COVID-19 patients admitted in L-2 and L-3 COVID-19 hospitals.He also directed in-charge of COVID-19 hospitals be provided two mobile phones, so that patients admitted there could speak to there family members and vice-versa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-govt-banned-mobile-phones-inside-covid-19-hospitals-to-hide-their-poor-condition-akhilesh-yadav/story-6FAkvbaGnO6yDOz8jPhRdK.html
24-05-2020||Delhi||New Delhi’s RML hospital dean tests Covid-19+ve, put under home quarantine||The Dean of the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Medical Sciences at the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital here has tested positive for coronavirus infection.Dr Rajeev Sood, who is looking after the management of COVID-19 manpower at the hospital, tested positive for the infection on Saturday.He is now under home isolation and contact tracing has been initiated by hospital authorities.“I have fever and mild upper respiratory infection and got myself tested for COVID-19...it came out positive. I am under home isolation now,” Dr Sood, who is also the head of the department of urology, told PTI over phone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/new-delhi-s-rml-hospital-dean-tests-covid-19-ve-put-under-home-quarantine/story-bOL4agbA3lVMRcy4wV1ufJ.html
24-05-2020||Delhi||RML hospital dean tests positive for coronavirus||The Dean of the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Medical Sciences at the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital here has tested positive for coronavirus infection.Dr Rajeev Sood, who is looking after the management of COVID-19 manpower at the hospital, tested positive for the infection on Saturday.He is now under home isolation and contact tracing has been initiated by hospital authorities.“I have fever and mild upper respiratory infection and got myself tested for COVID-19...it came out positive. I am under home isolation now,” Dr Sood, who is also the head of the department of urology, told PTI over phone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rml-hospital-dean-tests-positive-for-coronavirus/story-m1xj0m0UFJkSKbDOSf26qI.html
24-05-2020||Kolkata||Cyclone Amphan: Bengal governor slams CM Mamata Banerjee for delay in seeking Army’s help for relief work||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday hit out at West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, stating that the Army would have been called three days back to carry out post-cyclone relief work if the TMC supremo had kept the Governor’s office in the loop.Tagging the Chief Minister’s official handle on Twitter, Dhankhar said, “Urge Mamata - be in touch with Guv- had this been done army would have been called 3 days back”.He said that he is distressed and pained at the horrifying spectacle of people suffering for lack of basic facilities for several days and appealed people to stay calm. “Am distressed and pained at the horrifying spectacle of people suffering for lack of basic facilities, now for days. My appeal: Government/agencies must be in overdrive to restore services. Urge people to keep calm, time to bear as reaction can wait,” he added. The Governor has directed all authorities to attend to Raj Bhawan at the end, only after normalcy is restored in the city. He further asked the West Bengal government to “share real loss” regarding Cyclone Amphan with the Central government as “inflating figures is counter-productive”.“Share real loss @PMO India: inflating figures is counter-productive,” he said, tagging the PMO’s handle. The Army on Saturday accepted the West Bengal government’s request for assistance in the restoration of essential infrastructure and services, sending five columns to help Kolkata city’s civil administration.On Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during his visit to the state, had praised the West Bengal government’s efforts under Chief Minister Banerjee to tackle the situation caused by Cyclone Amphan and Covid-19 crisis.The Prime Minister also announced Rs 1,000 crore relief package for West Bengal and Rs 2 lakh each for the kin of deceased and Rs 50,000 for the injured in the destruction caused by Cyclone Amphan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/cyclone-amphan-bengal-governor-slams-cm-mamata-banerjee-for-delay-in-seeking-army-s-help-for-relief-work/story-KJcPjk4z7XPaSxCQERatAM.html
24-05-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata stares at rise in pollution levels due to uprooting of trees by Cyclone Amphan||Kolkata is staring at a rise in pollution levels post-lockdown due to uprooting of thousands of trees in the city by Cyclone Amphan, environmentalists said.The Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) has said that over 5,000 trees, several of which are over 50 years old, have been uprooted. Environmentalists, however, have put the number at 10,000.The trees, which absorb carbon emissions, had played a significant role in improving the air quality in the city during the lockdown.“More than a third of the roadside trees in the city seem to have been wiped out. We foresee a serious rise in PM 2.5 levels from the first week of September, when an estimated eight lakh vehicles will hit the roads post-lockdown,” environmentalist Somendra Nath Ghosh said.An official of the West Bengal Pollution Control Board said that trees will have to be planted on a large scale during the coming monsoon season.“We will launch a plantation drive once things settle down. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has also called for plantation of trees to restore the green cover,” Member of KMC’s Board of Administrators and former mayor-in-council (Parks), Debashis Kumar said.But first, the uprooted trees have to be removed on an urgent basis and the job is being done on a war footing, he said.“Ten trees will need to be planted to compensate for the loss of one fully-grown tree. This is the standard practice,” he said.Around 200 trees were uprooted in the Rabindra Sarobar area itself, Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) Executive Engineer Sudhin Nandy said.KMDA, custodian of the Rabindra Sarobar Lake, will replant at least 100 of the fallen trees, he said.The extremely severe cyclone has also damaged the world’s largest banyan tree in Acharya Jagadish Chandra Bose Indian Botanic Garden in Howrah’s Shibpur, Botanical Survey of India scientist Shiv Kumar said.Many other trees in the botanical garden have been uprooted, an official of the establishment said.“We are yet to assess the total damages. We will see which trees can be replanted and where planting saplings of the same species will be required,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-stares-at-rise-in-pollution-levels-due-to-green-cover-amid-cyclone-amphan/story-ceAIs67GQK5v8nZsfIFhAO.html
24-05-2020||Delhi||Flights resume from Monday: How Covid-19 will change Delhi airport||The flight services are resuming from Monday after an order by the central government. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Union government had restricted all modes of travel including air travel since March 25.A day before the flights resume, here is a look at what a flyer arriving at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International airport’s Terminal 3 can expect in the wake of Covid-19.Outside the terminal• Outside the terminal, passengers can check-in through kiosk• After web check-in, the passenger heads towards the airline-allowed entry gate. A guard will check the flyer’s temperature and status on Aarogya Setu app. If they don’t have the app, the flyers will have to fill out a self-declaration form.Entering the airport• A security person behind a glass curtain will check the boarding passes and identity cards.• The passenger then heads to the terminal and goes through a thermal scanner.• Carpets are soaked in sanitising chemicals to ensure shoes are disinfected.• Hand sanitisers will be placed at gates for use by flyers.Baggage scanning• Before entering the terminal, passengers will put their luggage in a sanitising machine where the bags will be treated with ultraviolet radiation to sanitise them.Check-in• The passenger heads to check-in counters where they can opt for self baggage check-in.• Baggage tags will no longer be issued, and passengers will get an SMS to confirm luggage check-in.Security check• The passengers moves to the security hold area with the one allowed ‘hand-bag’. Here, contactless screening will be conducted using metal detectors and security personnel will scan the boarding pass before allowing passenger to the boarding area.At waiting area• Shops in non-aero areas will adhere to stringent safety, health and hygiene rules. All F&B retail shops will be open and orders can be placed on apps or kiosks.• Passengers will sit at alternate seats, with more seating space added.• Drinking-water fountains will be foot-pedal operated and washrooms will be deep-cleaned regularly.• On buses for boarding, only alternate seats to be used.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/flights-resume-from-monday-how-covid-19-will-change-delhi-airport/story-gIoQJX4vww3zqJVRrvY1jK.html
24-05-2020||Business||Punjab has reached out to nations looking to move business from China: CM Amarinder Singh||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has said his government has written to various countries which want to shift their business out of China and assured them of all possible support for setting up facilities in the state.Singh said his government is moving aggressively to reach out to embassies of various nations and that they have set up four industrial parks for giving them land for their projects.“We have written to Japan, Korean and Taiwanese embassies in India and we are in talks with them and offering them all possible support, in terms of land, infrastructure and other facilities,” Singh said during his Facebook Live programme ‘#AskCaptain’ on Saturday.This comes in the midst of reports that a number of global giants, including Japanese and American companies, are looking to shift their manufacturing facilities to other countries from China in the wake of the pandemic.India is also looking to lure US businesses, including medical devices giant Abbott Laboratories, to relocate from China as President Donald Trump’s administration stepped up efforts to blame Beijing for its role in the coronavirus pandemic.India in April reached out to more than 1,000 companies in the US and through overseas missions to offer incentives for manufacturers seeking to move out of China, Bloomberg reported earlier in May, citing government officials.India is prioritising medical equipment suppliers, food processing units, textiles, leather and auto part makers among more than 550 products covered in the discussions, according to officials who asked not to be identified, citing rules on speaking with the media.India expects to win over US companies involved in healthcare products and devices, and is in talks with Medtronic Plc and Abbott Laboratories on relocating their units to the country, an official said.India last month made prior clearance mandatory for foreign investments from countries that share a land border with India, in a move aimed at curbing “opportunistic takeovers” of Indian companies by Chinese firms following fall in their valuation due to the coronavirus-induced economic downturn.China criticised India for the new policy and called it discriminatory and demanded its review.Before Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh have offered concessions for those planning to move. Maharashtra has ensured that supply chains for foreign manufacturers remained functional through India’s national virus lockdown.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/business-news/punjab-has-reached-out-to-nations-looking-to-move-business-from-china-cm-amarinder-singh/story-QClVro8a5Va1YE7MQf6m5M.html
24-05-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi govt to hire 200 taxis to strengthen its ambulance services||The Delhi government has decided to hire 200 taxis from cab aggregators Ola and Uber to strengthen its ambulance service which is under pressure due to the coronavirus pandemic, news agency PTI reported.The hired taxis - 110 from Ola and 91 from Uber - will be used for carrying non-critical and non-Covid-19 patients to and from hospitals, PTI quoted from a Delhi government order.The taxis to be used as ambulance vehicles will be placed under the CATS director who is responsible for managing the Centralised Accident and Trauma Services (CATS) ambulances.The national capital, meanwhile, added 23 more deaths due to Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the toll to 231, even as 591 fresh cases increased the tally to 12,910, according to official data.The fresh fatalities put the mortality rate of the disease in Delhi at about 1.8 per cent, up from the one per cent on May 11. The figure remains lower than the national average of three per cent.Of the total Covid-19 deaths so far in Delhi, 158 have been recorded in the last 12 days. A three-member death audit committee recently began clearing the reporting backlog of deaths that were not added to the cumulative tally.An order by Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev on May 10 directed all designated Covid-19 hospitals to report the deaths by 5pm each day to ensure timely reporting. This was done after discrepancies in the cumulative data and deaths recorded at the hospitals were pointed out.The average number of daily cases has increased steadily in May, with the city recording over 500 cases each in the last five days.Even as Delhi is recording a high number of cases, the doubling rate - an indicator of the pace of spread of the infection - has gone up to about 15 days.Of the 6,412 infections active currently, 1,886 people with severe symptoms have been admitted to designated Covid-19 hospitals. Of them, 184 are in intensive care units, with 27 people on ventilators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-delhi-govt-to-hire-200-taxis-to-strengthen-its-ambulance-services/story-GLsWXWqhxyaI9azpM0y0WK.html
24-05-2020||Delhi||This Delhi village donated Rs 11 lakh to PM CARES Fund||Saidulajab, an urban village in Delhi, has set an example in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic in the country as more than 3,700 people have died and over 1.25 have contracted the disease. The villagers in south Delhi honoured the additional district magistrate (ADM) as Covid-19 warrior and the village head handed over a check of Rs 11 lakh to the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) Fund.The villagers also honoured 18 sweepers, 12 policemen and six media personnel as Covid-19 warriors. Gokul Chandra Yadav, a resident of the village, said the country is facing a pandemic and policemen, sweepers and health workers engaged in serving people are putting their lives at stake. “In such a situation, our village decided to give its support in this difficult time for the country,” Yadav said, according to Hindustan.The members of the committee, which was formed in the village, went to people’s homes and collected donations from the people to deposit money in the PM CARES Fund. Its members Sunder Lal, Sukhbir, Narendra and Surendra collected Rs 11 lakh in 15 days from the villagers, who donated the money according to their ability.Delhi reported 23 more deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Saturday, taking the toll in the national capital to 231, even as 591 fresh cases increased the tally of the viral infections to 12,910, according to official data. Of the Covid-19 deaths so far in Delhi, 158 have been recorded in the last 12 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/this-delhi-village-donated-rs-11-lakh-to-pm-cares-fund/story-46z9w2tBh6flS6rqE4gyzH.html
24-05-2020||Business||Maruti Suzuki employee at Manesar plant tests Covid-19 positive||An employee at Maruti Suzuki’s Manesar plant has tested positive for COVID-19, according to a company spokesperson. The company is also looking at “a possibility of a second case” of infection at the facility but has ruled out any impact on the business part due to the situation.The country’s largest carmaker, Maruti Suzuki India (MSI) had re-opened the Manesar facility earlier this month after around 50 days of closure due to coronavirus-led lockdown.“One employee of the company’s Manesar plant tested positive on May 22, 2020 for COVID-19,” the spokesperson told PTI on Saturday when contacted over the matter.The said employee had last attended the plant on May 15 with normal health after which his residence area came under containment zone and he did not join work thereafter, he said.The district administration was informed about the employee who has since been admitted in the hospital and his condition is stable, he added.MSI is providing all medical help and assistance to the infected employee as per government guidelines, the spokesperson said. On the status of another employee possibly infected with the virus, the spokesperson said: “There may be a possibility of a second case of infection that has just been reported. More information is being sought.” The automaker, in the confirmed case, has undertaken a contact tracing exercise and out of abundant caution, all employees who could have come in contact are advised to stay in home isolation, he said. The company has in place a robust and carefully designed standard operating procedure (SOP) for maximum safety against infection spread at the workplace and transit, which goes well beyond compliance requirement, the spokesperson said.In addition, there is also a COVID-19 Task Force that closely monitors adherence to the SOP in the company, the spokesperson added.MSI had resumed production at its Gurugram plant from May 18.Both Manesar and Gurugram plants have an installed capacity to churn out over 15.5 lakh vehicles per annum.The Gurugram facility rolls out models like S-Cross, Vitara Brezza, Ignis and Super Carry light commercial vehicle.The Manesar plant, on the other hand, produces high selling models like Alto, Swift, Dzire, S-Presso, Ertiga and Baleno.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/business-news/maruti-suzuki-employee-at-manesar-plant-tests-covid-19-positive/story-5xFICwhAB1lJfZ3zEi2TyM.html
24-05-2020||Lucknow||In reopening plan, Lucknow shopping complexes to remain without AC in sweltering heat||The Lucknow administration on Saturday announced that shopping complexes in the city can function, but without air conditioners, in view of the lockdown 4.0 guidelines to combat coronavirus pandemic.This will become effective from May 26, an official statement said. Lucknow District Magistrate Abhishek Prakash said shopping complexes in the containment and buffer zones, will continue to remain closed.With the temperature rising, the order is bound to create some heartburn. The whole of north India, including national capital Delhi, is reeling under a heatwave. Uttar Pradesh’s capital, which has so far not seen temperature rising to abnormal highs, is expected to feel the pinch from early next week.There regional centre of the weather department has predicted that of temperature will rise to 42 degrees Celsius next week.The district administration, meanwhile, has asked shopping complexes to ensure that only one-third shops open, and social distancing is strictly adhered to.Children below the age of 10, pregnant women and the elderly (above the age of 65) are prohibited from venturing out during this period, the statement from the administration said.The shopping complexes have been asked to install thermal scanners and sanitisers at the entrances. Wearing of masks and gloves has been made mandatory for the staff till the time they are on duty. They have been asked to note down details of every visitor, and authorities must be informed if anyone is found woth Covid-19 symptoms.The shops will open from 7 am to 7 pm on pre-decided days, the authorities said, adding that regular sanitisation of shopping complexes should be done.The order further said that only four people will be allowed in lift inside the shopping complexes. A lift operator should be present, and the lift should be sanitised after every hour, the order further said.However, there are some areas where shops have been ordered to remain closes. These are Aminabad, La Touche Road, Nazirabad, BN Road, Cantt Road, those located from Kaisarbagh crossing to Kaisarbagh Bus Stand crossing, Kaisarbagh Bus Stand crossing to Maulviganj crossing, Maulviganj to Rakabganj crossing, Hewett Road, Lalbagh, Jai Hind market, Nadan Mahal Road, Charak crossing to Medical crossing and then to Covention Centre, Nakkhas market, area around Ali Jaan mosque in Cantonment and bylane-5 Nishatganj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/in-reopening-plan-lucknow-shopping-complexes-to-remain-without-ac-in-sweltering-heat/story-kozKfvKL2dMPV5pQqnDdMM.html
24-05-2020||Delhi||20-yr-old school dropout arrested for allegedly stalking girl in west Delhi||A 20-year-old school dropout was arrested for allegedly stalking a girl in west Delhi’s Paschim Vihar area, police said on Saturday.The accused has been identified as Rahul Chillar, a resident of Rajdhani Park, Nangloi. He was arrested on Friday, they said.On Tuesday, a woman lodged a complaint at the Paschim Vihar (West) police station alleging that Chillar was stalking her daughter and called her frequently. He studied in same school as the girl’s and is her senior by two years, a senior police officer said.He used to talk to the girl but now she refuses to talk to him, which annoyed him, the officer said.On Tuesday, he barged into the girl’s house. He was carrying a pistol and threatened the girl and her mother, according to the officer.The woman’s nephew reached there and snatched the pistol from Chillar’s hands. Thereafter, the accused fled from the spot. He left behind his mobile phone, the officer said.Chillar has been arrested and further investigation in the matter is underway, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/20-yr-old-school-dropout-arrested-for-allegedly-stalking-girl-in-west-delhi/story-RpzcwBA5nk0gzAiDfWslFJ.html
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||Man held for assaulting cop patrolling in Chandigarh’s Bapu Dham Colony||In the third such incident, the UT police on Friday arrested a resident of Bapu Dham Colony for assaulting a cop deployed in the area.The police said constable Sansar was patrolling the area when a resident on a two-wheeler tried to go outside the sealed Colony. “Sanjay Mishra of Phase 2, Bapu Dham Colony, was on a bike when he was stopped by the police. Instead of adhering to the prohibitory orders, he manhandled the cop on duty,” said a police official requesting anonymity.A case under Sections 188 (disobedience of order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter a public servant from his duty) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter a public servant from discharging his duties) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered against Mishra.Five days ago, head constable Gurdev Singh posted with a patrolling party was targeted by a mob protesting the stay-at-home orders in Dhanas, another containment zone. On May 11, constable Anil Kumar was pelted with stones as he tried to stop a few men from leaving the sealed zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-held-for-assaulting-cop-patrolling-in-chandigarh-s-bapu-dham-colony/story-PWOq44K6QB4kwOxwpbNS6N.html
24-05-2020||Kolkata||Days after cyclone hit state, Kolkata residents recount devastation, horror||When cyclone Amphan was battering Kolkata with wind speeds gusting up to 130 km per hour, residents of Subham-Subhasree apartments in east Kolkata’s Hussainpur – Madurdaha felt their buildings were being rocked on their foundations.“I almost jumped out of my bed and was about to rush outside...Moments later, I realised that it was not an earthquake but the cyclone and that I couldn’t go out,” said Suchismita Biswas, a resident. As the cyclone battered the buildings, chunks of concrete fell off their exteriors. The flat owners are planning to consult a structural engineer for a checkup of the two buildings.The society, comprising two buildings, was handed over to the owners in 2015. Apart from the structural damage the cyclone may have caused, there was other damage. “There was a large tree, almost four-storey in height, in in front of our complex. During the cyclone, a large branch broke off and fell on our gate, damaging the lights at the entrance. A few other branches of some trees located on another plot behind our building also broke off, damaging the wire fencing,” said T Samui, another resident. One of the sliding window panes of a bedroom in one of the north-facing flats was blown apart. Water started gushing in and the bedroom was filled with ankle deep water. A power cut, caused by the snapping of a high tension wire, made matters worse; there has been no electricity in the complex since Wednesday. “The two buildings are running on generator. We have lodged a complaint with the CESC which supplies power... We don’t now for how long the generator can continue to provide power,” said Samui.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/days-after-cyclone-hit-state-kolkata-residents-recount-devastation-horror/story-9Juddw3dcJLWiDX8gYGRjM.html
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||Hopes of hospitality players fly high as flights resume from May 25||Facing losses of approximately Rs 150 crore and grappling with large-scale migrant exodus, the hospitality industry is hoping for a revival after the long-drawn Covid-19 lockdown as domestic flights resume from Chandigarh from May 25.Hotels and restaurants in the city, except those home delivering food, have been closed since March 22 even though other commercial establishments have opened in lockdown 4.0.“If the Central government is allowing travel by train, road and now air, then hotels and restaurants should also be allowed to open. We foresee that eventuality,” says Manmohan Kohli, chairman, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Chandigarh (HRAC).With domestic flights allowed, air travellers will require accommodation and food service, says Ankit Gupta, president, Chandigarh Hospitality Association.MOUNTING LOSSESMost of the approximately 300 hotels and restaurants in the city have incurred losses after the lockdown. “We estimate losses at more than Rs 150 crore in the last two months, which is likely to increase if the closure of the industry continues,” says Arvinder Pal Singh, president, HRAC.The migrant exodus has also hit the industry. “Most of the workforce in local hotels and restaurants comes from Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Nearly 50% have left after inter-state movement was allowed. If the restrictions continue then we expect still more movement of migrant workers from the local tourism industry,” says Gupta.With migrant workers gone, restaurants too are unable to benefit from permissions granted for home delivery of food. “Most of the establishments do not have adequate staff for deliveries so they remain closed,” Gupta adds.Hotels have also been hit because of zero occupancy in the last two months, says Anil Malhotra, executive director, corporate affairs, hospitality, offices and CSR, Nexus Malls.On allied sectors impacted correspondingly, Neeraj Bajaj, president, Chandigarh Business Council, says, “The restaurant industry has a direct huge impact on businesses such as grocery shops, dairy product manufacturers, vegetable and fruit vendors. Employment of professionals like carpenters, plumbers, and electricians is also connected. They have also suffered loss of income,” he adds.Enterprises running from rented spaces have taken the biggest hit. “Such establishments are unlikely to bear the losses suffered and business lost during the last 60 days,” says Kohli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hopes-of-hospitality-players-fly-high-as-flights-resume-from-march-25/story-0w5C63RNFEzzz4hJlKiAEL.html
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||Sri Guru Granth Sahib World University holds national contests online||To celebrate International Biodiversity Day, Sri Guru Granth Sahib World University, Fatehgarh Sahib, on Saturday organised national-level online competitions, wherein around 400 students took part. The event was conducted by the department of botany and environmental sciences on the theme “ Nature during Covid-19 scenario.” Vice-chancellor Prit Pal Singh thanked the Punjab Biodiversity Board, Chandigarh, and National Biodiversity Authority, New Delhi, for sponsoring the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sri-guru-granth-sahib-world-university-holds-national-contests-online/story-MoXolsWO6dtAfG0WEkGLOM.html
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||GMCH performs first C-section of Covid-19 patient||The first caesarean of a Covid-19 pregnant woman was performed at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Sector 32 on Saturday. The surgery took place at a separate operation theatre, specially established for corona patients at the hospital.A team of doctors from the departments of obstetrics and gynaecology, anesthesia and neonatology worked hard in this sensitive case where the safety of doctors was as important as that of the mother and the newborn, revealed the official statement of the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gmch-performs-first-c-section-of-covid-19-patient/story-atcFaeutidWb97hWCCWdeI.html
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||Compensate farmers instead of liquor contractors: SAD to CM||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Saturday asked chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to compensate farmers of four districts for the losses suffered by them instead of compensating liquor and mining contractors.Addressing a press conference here, senior SAD leader Prem Singh Chandumajra also demanded action against distilleries and excise officers who had caused losses of thousands of crores to the state exchequer.He asked the government to come out with a concrete proposal to engage the state labour in paddy transplantation.He also demanded the government disclose how much funds it had received from the Centre to combat Covid-19 and how much money it had spent on this task till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/compensate-farmers-instead-of-liquor-contractors-sad-to-cm/story-D21OBclG7odJ47ktIWltNJ.html
24-05-2020||City||Panchkula administration allows opening of parks, salons, banquet halls with conditions||The district administration on Saturday allowed opening of parks located within residential areas, salons, barber shops and marriage halls albeit with conditions.An official order issued by the deputy commissioner (DC) stated that parks situated within sectors, residential localities, colonies and housing societies could open for certain activities like walking, jogging and running on tracks.DC Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said using open gyms, yoga or any other activity was not allowed. Parks will be open between 7-10am and 3.30-6.50pm. The entry of persons above 65 years of age, persons with critical illnesses, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 was not allowed, the official order read.The DC said that as per the national directives for Covid-19 management, wearing of face cover was compulsory. Spitting in the park is punishable with a fine, he added. Social distancing norms and other health protocols are to be followed.Panchkula municipal corporation commissioner and estate officer of Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) have been appointed to ensure compliance of the orders in their jurisdictions. Any violation of the instructions/orders is liable to criminal prosecution under the Disaster Management Act.SANITISATION OF SALONS, BARBER SHOPS A MUSTThe administration also granted permission for operation of barber shops, salons and beauty parlours on all seven days between 9am and 6.30pm with certain conditions. The official order stated that such shops shall observe all safety precautions, and disinfect and sanitise after each service. The staff has to wear face masks, head covers and aprons at all times compulsorily. The salons have been asked to adopt an appointment or token system to stagger client’s entry beyond capacity.NO MORE THAN 50 PEOPLE IN MARRIAGE FUNCTIONSIn another order, DC Mukesh Kumar Ahuja allowed opening of marriage/banquet halls with a maximum number of 50 guests at any time. However, the halls have to obtain prior permission for organising marriage functions from the DC or other authorised official. Certain guidelines including thermal scanning, sanitisation and masks have been made mandatory. As per the advisory, every marriage function shall be conducted in a suitable public place with good natural ventilation and no central air-conditioning is to be used. Consumption of liquor, tobacco etc is prohibited.Salons may open in Chandigarh before May 30 The UT administration may soon allow barber shops, salons and beauty parlours to open by the end of next week under strict safety precautions. The decision is currently being deliberated upon by the health department as well senior administrative officers.Mohali has already allowed the opening of salons and Haryana gave the nod on Saturday, paving the way for opening of grooming shops in Panchkula in the next one or two days.UT adviser Manoj Parida said the standard operating procedures for opening of salons and barber shops were being examined. “A rough draft has already been shared with the health department for examination and suggestions. The decision to open them is expected by next week before May 30,” he said.ONLINE APPOINTMENT, TOKEN SYSTEM ON CARDS Sources said that UT was examining the feasibility of implementing an online appointment or token system to stagger the footfall. The seating arrangements will ensure social distancing. Other important safeguards like disposal tower or paper sheet per client, compulsory wearing of masks, handling of waste will be other restrictions. There will be a provision to ban the entry of persons with flu-like symptoms.Parida said UT was also studying the SOPs adopted by Haryana and Punjab. SOPs of Kerala and other states were also being studied.The administration’s extra cautious stance may be attributed to the fact that the city’s first Covid patient infected a salon worker after returning from the UK in March. An official said that UT was aware of the threat in opening such outlets, but SOPs were well established and people were aware of the importance of social distancing and other hygiene parameters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-administration-allows-opening-of-parks-salons-banquet-halls-with-conditions/story-I2lHrEEfkUraoMkgpB1xYL.html
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||14-day home quarantine for everyone coming to Punjab by domestic flights, trains, buses||Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday said that everyone coming to the state, including those coming in via domestic flights, trains and buses, will have to undergo compulsory 14-day home quarantine.Interacting with people during a Facebook Live ‘#AskCaptain’, the CM said that screening of those entering the state will be done at state and district border entry points, railway stations and airports. Those found to be symptomatic will be sent to institutional quarantine, while others will have to undergo mandatory two-week home quarantine.He announced that rapid testing teams will check on the home quarantined people while the symptomatic ones will undergo testing at hospitals and isolation centres.He cited Punjab’s experience with those who came from Maharashtra and Rajasthan, as well as the more recent case of Dubai, and said that Punjab government will not rely on any certificates of testing from any part of the country or the world.Those returning to India via special international flights are already required to undergo institutional quarantine, as per the Central government’s guidelines.The CM said that there is a likelihood of infection coming to state through people returning from other countries and states. So, the state is taking no chances and has made elaborate arrangements for testing and quarantine.He thanked labourers who chose to stay back and contribute to Punjab’s economic strength. It is vital for the industries to function to ensure livelihood, he said. He urged people to follow social distancing norms at workplaces to avoid contracting coronavirus.Of the migrants who had registered online, nearly half have willingly decided to stay back in Punjab and have started working in the industries, he said, adding that of 2.56 lakh industries in state, 1.5 lakh have resumed operations.He said that his government is facilitating return of migrants through special trains, along with 607 buses, to Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha.“Around 3.25 lakh of the 13 lakh migrants have returned so far while another 17,000 have gone back through buses,” he added.Captain said that the success of Punjab’s strategy is evident from the fact that it has the slowest doubling rate of 86 days against the national average of 14 days.On some school not following directions regarding charging fee online, he asked the Amritsar resident who raised the issue to share details of the school and promised strict action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/14-day-home-quarantine-for-everyone-coming-to-punjab-by-domestic-flights-trains-buses/story-il2aEG3QMgboCWPWVz3kMK.html
24-05-2020||City||11 sewadars of Ludhiana gurdwara get medical insurance||Punjab Youth Development Board chairman Sukhwinder Singh Bindra handed over medical insurance policies worth ₹25 lakh to 11 sewadars (volunteers) performing langar sewa at Gurdwara Shaheed Baba Deep Singh, Model Town Extension, in Ludhiana on Saturday. Bindra said the sewadars had been preparing langar for 2,500 persons at the gurdwara daily during the pandemic situation, and distributing it too, without thinking about their own health, just like a frontline warrior. Bindra said the board, with the help of NGOs and philanthropists, got these sewadars medically insured for a total of ₹25 lakh and paid all instalments for it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/caring-for-helpers-11-sewadars-of-ludhiana-gurdwara-medically-insured-for-25-lakh/story-kwrmUHrGwEWGj3udm1vtWN.html
24-05-2020||City||60-year-old dies, 2 nurses among 17 more test positive in Punjab||A 60-year-old male Covid-19 patient died while 17 more persons, including two nurses, tested positive for the disease in Punjab on Saturday, taking the total number of confirmed cases in the state to 2,134.The 60-year old, Vimal Mehra, a resident of Katra Dullo area in Amritsar, was admitted to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on May 20 after he complained of cough, fever and breathlessness. He was tested positive for Covid-19 the same day.“He was also suffering from diabetes. When his condition kept deteriorating, he was intubated and put on ventilator. His wife and two sons also tested positive for the coronavirus on Saturday and were admitted to GMCH. It is a case of community spread,” said Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore.Four more persons, including a Mumbai-returned man, were found infected in the district. “The rest of the three Amritsar residents were tested positive in Gurdaspur and are admitted there,” said Dr Kishore.With this, the tally of cases in the district reached 322, including six deaths.4 found infected in Jalandhar Two nurses, aged 22 and 27 besides a 36-year-old man of Dada Colony and a 55-year-old man from Lajpat Nagar tested positive for the disease in Jalandhar. The 27-year-old nurse is working at the civil hospital while the other is employed with a private healthcare facility. A total of 222 positive cases, including 7 deaths, have been reported in the district so far, Covid-19 nodal officer Dr TP Singh Sandhu said.Of the 6,516 samples collected in the district, 5,747 were found negative while results of 368 are awaited.ASHA worker among 3 patients in PatialaThree people, including an accredited social health activist (ASHA worker), tested positive for disease in Patiala. Those found infected are a 43-year-old Rajpura resident, who had returned from Maharashtra; a 37-year-old combine helper from Noorkheri village, who had returned from Uttar Pradesh and a 38-year-old ASHA worker who was posted at the health sub-centre in Jalalpur in Kauli block. So far, 111 people have tested positive in the districtCISF jawan contracts virus in Muktsar A 28-year-old Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) jawan tested positive for Covid-19 in Muktsar on Saturday, a day after the district was declared as virus-free.Civil surgeon HN Singh said the patient, who hails from Mohni Kheda village, is posted in Delhi and his samples were taken here on May 19.He came to his native village on leave on May 15 and was in home-quarantine. Swab samples of his family members were taken for testing.The district has reported 67 cases.Pathankot man came on bike from Mumbai A 41-year-old man, who reached Pathankot from Mumbai on a motorcycle during the lockdown, was found positive on Saturday.He was quarantined after he reached here on May 21.He is likely to have contracted the infection when he boarded a four-wheeler with his bike in the tow to make his journey easier.The district so far has 32 coronavirus cases, including two deaths.1 case surfaces in Gurdaspur A 38-year-old resident of Jagowal Bangar village in Kahnuwan block of Gurdaspur district was found infected with the coronavirus patient on Saturday.Civil surgeon Dr Kishan Chand said the man from Jagowal Bangar worked at an oil refinery in Mumbai, Maharashtra, and returned home in a private vehicle four days ago. The health department will take samples of his family members and others who came in his contact at the village.So far, 133 cases, including 3 deaths, have been detected in the district. Eight patients are being treated.No more active cases in Rupnagar Rupnagar district has no more active coronavirus case with the discharge of positive patient, a resident of village Mangewal, from Gian Sagar Medical College and Hospital, Banur, on Saturday.Of a total of 60 active Covid-19 cases have been reported in the district. A patient of Chatamali village had died.(Inputs from Bathinda, Gurdaspur and Rupnagar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/60-year-old-dies-2-nurses-among-17-more-test-positive-in-punjab/story-9tItxhMzfmzhUpxIKclZ4J.html
24-05-2020||City||Kalyan family alleges ambulance left as his elderly parents took time to go downstairs||A 46-year-old man from Kalyan, whose two younger brothers tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, alleged that the ambulance that came to take his parents to hospital, left before the senior citizens could come down.A video of the 67-year-old man, who cannot walk because of a problem in his leg, dragging himself down the stairs from his fourth floor house, with his 65-year-old wife behind, went viral on the social media. “My two younger brothers, who live with my parents, have tested positive. They were taken to a Covid hospital in Kalyan on Saturday around 1pm. I live in another building nearby. My parents are high-risk contacts and had to be taken to quarantine centre,” said the elder son.He said that they were waiting since 1pm for the ambulance to arrive. “Around 6.45pm, the ambulance came and my parents started walking down the stairs. My father cannot walk and so he was dragging himself down the stairs. He took time to go down,” he added.The man alleged that by the time his parents reached downstairs, the ambulance that had been waiting for around 20 minutes left, leaving behind two nurses and another healthcare staffer.“The nurses said the driver left as he had to break his Ramzam fast. I called up the civic body chief and complained about the driver. Another ambulance arrived in 30 minutes and my parents were taken to Shastrinagar civic hospital in Dombivli. But all this while, my elderly parents had to keep waiting,” he said.Kalyan-Dombivli municipal commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi said, “It was a private ambulance. The driver waited for some time and left as it was time for his Ramzan prayers and iftar. As soon as we got to know, our doctors arranged another ambulance for the elderly couple within 30 minutes and they were taken to the hospital. ”On Thursday, a 26-year-old Covid patient from Dombivli walked 3 kms to Shastrinagar hospital when there was a delay by the hospital to provide an ambulance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-family-alleges-ambulance-left-as-his-elderly-parents-took-time-to-go-downstairs/story-QIuN3HMBWCESL3YFZ74btM.html
24-05-2020||City||Precautions in place, Ludhiana golfers back on course||Following a green light for opening golf courses in the fourth phase oh the lockdown, golfers in Ludhiana made a beeline for the golf course at Ranjitgarh Golf Club of the Punjab Police Academy in Phillaur (Jalandhar) on Saturday.The club has issued guidelines for the safety of all its members and all precautions are being taken by the golfers.City-based golfers advocate Harpreet Sandhu, Dr BS Bal and his wife Dr Mohini Bal reached the club at 7am. Club in-charge assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Swatantar Kumar apprised them of sanitisation points set up on the premises, pre and post temperature checking, benches, ball washers and removal of bunker rakes. Sandhu appreciated the efforts of club president additional director general of police Anita Punj, and secretary RGC Yurinder Singh Hayer for initiating post-lockdown guidelines for the safety of the club members.“It was pleasant feeling after stepping on the golf course after a two-month gap,” said Sandhu, adding that the golfers were taking all precautions and maintaining social distancing. Dr Bal and his wife expressed that the past two months were stressful due to patient consultations, so playing golf after a long gap gave much relief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/precautions-in-place-ludhiana-golfers-go-back-to-course/story-0MffehkKEQV3lSojYA8OjJ.html
24-05-2020||City||Tarn Taran man trying to flee after killing cousin sisters dies in road accident||A 30-year-old man, who was fleeing after hacking his two cousin sisters to death, was killed when his motorbike collided with a tractor-trailer near Kot Data village in Patti subdivision here on Saturday.The accused has been identified as Joban Singh. His accomplice Nirmal Singh, 23, of Buraj village has been arrested.Superintendent of Police (investigation) Jagjit Singh Walia said Nirmal Singh told police that Joban killed his cousins Soni, 34, and Ramandeep Kaur, 15, as he doubted their character.“The incident took place around 12 pm when Soni, Ramandeep and her sister Simranjit were returning home from Bhikiwind. When the trio reached the outskirts of the village on Pangota road, the two accused intercepted them and attacked them with sharp-edged weapons. While Simranjit managed to flee, Soni and Ramandeep were killed on the spot.””Some villagers, who were nearby, rushed to the scene hearing cries of the women. Seeing a group of people approaching them, the duo tried to flee from the spot. They had barely gone 500 metres, when Joban lost control over the bike and it crashed into a tractor trailer, killing him on the spot,” said Kot Data panchayat member Arjun Singh. His accomplice was taken into custody. Arjun said Ramandeep’s father worked as a driver while Soni’s father was a labourer. The SP said they have registered a case under sections 302 (murder), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) against the accused at the Harike police station. The bodies have been sent to the Tarn Taran civil hospital for autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tarn-taran-man-trying-to-flee-after-killing-cousin-sisters-dies-in-road-accident/story-wOlnNJPMOuqE1B7WQY9V2M.html
24-05-2020||City||Two ASIs accused of assaulting journalist in Mohali suspended||Two ASIs posted with the Phase 1 police station, accused of thrashing a senior journalist with a Punjabi daily, have been placed under suspension and sent to police lines.The complainant, Major Singh, on Friday had gone to a gurdwara in Phase 4, when the accused ASIs, Om Prakash and Amar Nath, allegedly snatched his mobile phone. “The duo took me to the police station and assaulted me when I demanded my phone. They beat me up with sticks and even put me in the lockup,” Singh told the police, alleging that the accused even disrespected his turban and kara. He demanded registration of a case under Section 295A (insulting religion or religious beliefs) of the Indian Penal Code. Mohali senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal has suspended the cops and marked an inquiry into the incident to SP (City) Harvinder Singh Virk after a delegation of journalists from Mohali met the SSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-asis-accused-of-assaulting-journalist-in-mohali-suspended/story-bGdjIrjrD3gDwhzPSWqXsK.html
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||Three friends booked for violating night curfew in Chandigarh||UT police have booked three men for violating the night curfew orders after they entered into a drunken brawl at Hallomajra village on Thursday night.Police identified the accused as Govind, alias Khandu, 28, and his two friends, Amir Singh, alias Jolly, 19, and Sandeep, alias Vicky, 23. “The trio was fighting with one another in an inebriated condition at a public place. A complaint was made, following which a case was registered for violating the curfew,” said a police official, privy to the matter.A case under Sections 188 (disobedience of order duly promulgated by public servant) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the three men, who have yet to be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-friends-booked-for-violating-night-curfew-in-chandigarh/story-JvmdLeHDxzICz5DJPxq6wJ.html
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||Sukhbir’s demand of probe into grain distribution absurd: Ashu||Terming Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal’s demand of CBI probe into distribution of foodgrain and pulses under the Centre’s scheme as ridiculous, Punjab food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Saturday said end-to-end computerisation in the state had made any pilferage impossible. “These types of demands are just gimmicks aimed at gaining political mileage,” Ashu said, adding that no one from the Congress party, neither worker nor leaders, had any role in this distribution. He added that there was no delay on the part of the state government, as it had immediately got released its wheat quota allocated to it by centre by from FCI. The minister claimed that the main reason for impediment in distribution was delayed supply of pulses by NAFED and bad quality pulses supplied by them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sukhbir-s-demand-of-probe-into-grain-distribution-absurd-ashu/story-MwvksDOsnNubriGBswWjxN.html
24-05-2020||City||No fresh case detected in Ludhiana, 4 discharged||In good news for Ludhiana, no fresh case of Covid-19 was detected in the district on Saturday while four patients have been discharged. So far, 179 positive cases have been detected in the district excluding 86 patients, who belong to other districts or states. The four patients, who were discharged on Saturday belong to Gurpal Nagar, Bhai Himmar Singh Nagar, Haibowal and Guru Angad Dev colony. Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said that no fresh case was detected in Ludhiana on Saturday and reports of 149 samples sent to Government Medical College, Patiala, for testing have come out negative. These samples include 65 contacts of positive cases and 20 health workers from various hospitals.“Four patients have been discharged, taking the total count of active cases in Ludhiana to 37. As many as 135 patients have been discharged from different hospitals while seven deaths have been reported in the district,” said Dr Bagga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-fresh-case-detected-in-ludhiana-4-discharged/story-ToAfahyToLkL4NpP2sTwrO.html
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||Liquor contractors seeks 40-50% cut in revenue from sale||Liquor contractors in Punjab are seeking a cut of between 40 and 50% in annual quota of Rs 6,200 crore revenue from sale in the current fiscal. Contractors had aired this demand before a group of ministers (GoMs) that chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh formed ten days ago to look into contractors’ complaints. Contractors have claimed major business losses due to the lockdown imposed to check the spread of covid-19.If the government accepts this plea, the income of the state excise department will come down drastically to between Rs 3,100 crore and 3,700 crore.“Contractors claim that due to closure of ahatas, hotels, restaurants, marriage palaces and movement of a substantial number of migrant labour out of the state, liquor sale has been adversely hit. They have pegged tentative loss at 40-50%. We have asked the excise and taxation department to check this, and prepare a report. We will then given a final report to the CM for final action,” said cabinet minister Vijay Inder Singla, who is part of the GoM that also has ministers Manpreet Singh Badal and Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria.Sarkaria and Singla are meeting contractors form all seven excise divisions, while Manpreet couldn’t join because of his father’s death. He is expected to join next week and the three ministers are expected to hold a final meeting before making recommendations to the CM.The targets of revenue from excise were fixed in the excise policy cleared by the state government in January month before the lockdown. Around 70% of 5,800 liquor vends were sold on 12% revenue increase and 7-8% increase in sale. “We can’t bring in new players and we have to find a solution,” said Singla.NO LIQUOR ORDERED FROM PUNJAB: CHHATTISGARH With a huge cache of liquor seized on Friday carrying the labels of ‘To be sold in Chhattisgarh’ the state excise and taxation department on Saturday found that Chhatisgarh had placed no such order. The distillery would now be fined. An officer in the excise department revealed that the report which was to be submitted these raids and the stock-checking exercise would now be given to the CM, who heads the excise department, on Monday. The department had raided 15 distilleries on Friday, after series of discussions held with the liquor traders who reportedly asked the GoMs that stocks of distilleries be checked. Excise teams would again visit distilleries to cross-check stock on Sunday.&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&Strap/BlurbRaise this demand with the GoM; if the govt accepts this plea, the income of the state excise department will come down drastically to between Rs 3,100 crore and 3,700 crore||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/liquor-contractors-seeks-40-50-cut-in-revenue-from-sale/story-mN7IrsaJtAlr2sDPlJCIkJ.html
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University syndicate to take a call on fee hike on May 30||The Panjab University (PU) syndicate will take a call on a 7.5% fee hike for self-financed courses and 5% for traditional courses for new entrants in the 2020-21 academic session.A 15-member PU panel set up by the vice chancellor had proposed the hike at a February 20 meeting.The 7.5% increase, however, will be capped at Rs 7,500.The PU syndicate will meet on May 30 with 23 items on the agenda, its first since the Covid-19 lockdown. The last meeting was held in March.The syndicate decision, however, is subject to senate approval as it’s the supreme governing body of the university.The hikes, 10% last year for traditional courses and 7% for self-financed programmes, are a way out for PU to deal with its funds crunch.Self-financed courses run on student fees and are relatively more expensive.However, this year PU officials feel that implementing the new fee structure will be tough because of the lockdown since March.‘SITUATION HAS CHANGED’“The committee made its recommendations in February but the situation is not the same now. Due to the Covid-19 lockdown the economy has suffered and I think it will be good if the syndicate decides not to hike the fee this year,” said a PU senator on condition of anonymity.Chetan Chaudhary, who is also a member of panel that proposed the fee hike in February and registered his dissent over the move during the meeting, said: “The students are already under great stress and panic due to Covid-19 and the hike will create more problems for them. I want them to take a decision in the best interest of the students.”TENTATIVE ACADEMIC CALENDARThe syndicate will also take a call on the tentative academic calendar of the 2020-21 session. The calendar has been formulated considering the Covid-19 lockdown that resulted into the suspension of classes. It has recommended that the ongoing semester be extended for 13 days from June 16 to June 30. During this period, internships, summer trainings, internal assessments and practical examination will be held on the campus.The calendar provides that the exams will be held from July 7 to 30. The tentative date for declaration of results of final semesters is August 1 and for intermediary examinations, the date for results is August 14. The teaching process of ongoing classes at the teaching departments of PU, its affiliated colleges, regional centres and constituent colleges will start from the first day of August. Arun Kumar Grover, former vice-chancellor of PU, said, “Even many top-level universities have turned to online classes for next academic session. As we do not know when the lockdown will be over, I think the varsity should devise some mechanism to minimise the academic loss.”The admissions will start on August 1 and new classes will begin from August 18 to August 28.Saturdays to be working days The academic term which will start from August will have all Saturdays as working days till November 28. For the next semester, the final examinations will start from December 2 to December 24.The nine-day winter break will start from December 25 and the university will reopen on January, 4, 2021, for 90 days, excluding Saturdays and Sundays. ALSO ON AGENDAMembers will also decide on the recommendation made by the committee regarding introduction of certificate courses in Vedic studies. Payment of honorarium to staff members to be deputed on duty for senate elections 2020 will also come up for discussion.PU is also planning to increase the rent for shooting films, canopies, posters and hoarding. As per the proposal, PU will charge Rs 5 lakh as entry for indoor and outdoor shooting, which include tax of Rs 50,000 for shooting per day and Rs 1 lakh as security. Shoots will be prohibited in vice-chancellor’s office, girls’ hostel, administrative block, dental college, dispensary, residential area and in the library.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-syndicate-to-take-a-call-on-fee-hike-on-may-30/story-YMy4Ud8PUCAON2Qm1XJ2cM.html
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Punjab fails to ramp up testing despite capacity||Even as Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh in the first week of this month asked the health department to ramp up Covid-19 testing to 6,000 a day by May 15, there is hardly any visible change on the ground as the state is now lagging behind the national average on this count. The state is conducting almost the similar number of tests it was doing in the first week of May, shows the daily status report compiled under the Integrated Diseases Surveillance Programme (IDSP) of the health department till May 21. Maximum 2,975 daily tests done As of now, the maximum number of samples the state collected was on May 7 at 2,975. Three days later, only 1,258 samples were collected, with the figure going down to May’s lowest at 907, data reveals.The state’s testing started getting a little momentum May 18 onwards with the collection of 2,289 samples on May 21. But the daily analysis report says that in the past seven days, the rate of cumulative samples collected per day increasing at an average of 3.2% everyday.Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state nodal officer for Covid-19, said the health department is conducting tests among all categories of the population as directed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Union health and family welfare ministry.“Tests are being conducted as per norms, be it direct contacts of the positive patients, pregnant women, frontline health workers and police personnel or the routine patients visiting flu corners in civil hospitals,” Dr Bhaskar said.Experts, however, question the state’s failure to conduct tests according to daily capacity.‘Testing key to check infection’“Expert have repeatedly emphasised that testing is the key to check the spread of the virus as most patients remain asymptomatic. I fail to understand as why the state is lagging behind despite capacity,” a retired civil surgeon said. No major improvement in daily sample collection is also reflecting on Punjab’s figures in comparison with the national average and state’s testing per million on May 21 was 1,927 samples Against the national average of 1,942 tests per million, Punjab collected 1,927 samples on May 21. The state’s testing figure per million started getting better than the national average on May 6. But it started going down May 14 onwards. The state collected 1,865 tests per million on May 20, equal to the national average.Better than Kerala, way behind HaryanaOn the testing-per-million parameter, Punjab (1,927 on May 21) is doing better than Kerala (1,399) but is way behind neighbouring Haryana whose figure for the same is 2,876. Till May 21, the state conducted a total of 59,618 tests whereas Haryana did 88,138.Ludhiana tops chart, Pathankot on bottom Ludhiana district tops in the number of tests with 6,096 samples tested till May 21. Jalandhar is second with 6,061 samples followed by Amritsar at 3,876 tests. Rupnagar (1,663), Kapurthala (1,597) and Pathankot (1,375) districts have conducted relatively lesser number of tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-punjab-fails-to-ramp-up-testing-despite-capacity/story-ltgyZW22prgETRkb4JQkKN.html
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sports complexes reopen to a new reality: No-contact training||Around 50-60 players and coaches were greeted with a slew of safety measures—screening at the entry gate, temperature scan, sanitising and maintaining a distance of 2m at all times—when they entered the Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association (CLTA) stadium in Sector 10 for the first time after a gap of two months on Saturday.After taking the lead in opening up its golf course on Wednesday, Chandigarh threw open almost all its government-run sports complexes for all disciplines, barring close-contact games such as wrestling, boxing, hockey, volleyball and cricket.Normally, CLTA facilities are brimming with players, especially post exams, but Saturday gave a glimpse into the changes training and playing will have to undergo in a post-Covid world.A session lasted around 30 minutes with the player and coach never coming close. In a changeover, wherein the second player arrived, the first one left without touching anything.DOS AND DON’TSAarogya Setu app is a must for everyone as part of the standard operating procedure (SOP) adopted by the UT. A parent is allowed to accompany the child but social distancing has to be maintained. Once inside the court, a player needs to carry his sanitizer and ensure a 2m distance is maintained at all times.Individual knocking is allowed with a coach. In case the balls have been brought by the coach then a player is not allowed to touch them and vice versa.“We haven’t allowed players to serve, but they can do so, provided they bring their own balls and collect them on their own as well. The idea is to maintain a safe distance and provide a safe environment for players to train. SOPs have been made and the entire area will be sanitised. The response was good for the first day and we hope it will be better tomorrow,” said Romen Singh, chief coach, CLTA.None of the restrictions, however, mattered to the players considering it was their first outing in two months. “It was nice to finally have a session. The instructions were clear and are for our own safety, so we need to observe them. Mask is not necessary while playing but is important when the coach is giving instructions,” said Nandit Negi, a student who is waiting for his Class 10 results.A similar set-up was witnessed at the Sector 38 sports complex where 10 badminton trainees had their first session in a long time. “We have sanitised shuttles and players are required to sanitise their equipment before and after the session. Chairs have also been placed at opposite ends. We will have 20 elite players each in the morning and evening sessions from Monday onwards,” said badminton coach Surinder Mahajan.Meanwhile, weightlifters also enjoyed their first session at the Sector 42 sports complex along with athletes beginning their training at the Sector 7 sports complex and table tennis players ping ponging at Sector 50 sports complex.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-sports-complexes-reopen-to-a-new-reality-no-contact-training/story-5NTWRSsBTBYvRbuSDpuqAP.html
24-05-2020||City||Ferozepur division’s 250th Shramik special train departs from Ludhiana||Ferozepur division’s 250th Shramik special train departed from the Ludhiana railway station on Saturday.The train left for Gonda district of Uttar Pradesh with around 1,600 passengers. Apart from this, 10 other trains departed from the station on Saturday.Rajesh Agarwal, divisional railway manager, Ferozepur Division, said that as many as 250 trains have been sent from the division since May 5. He added that around 3.11 lakh migrants have travelled through these trains to their respective hometowns.“Of 250 trains, 172 have carried migrants to different districts of Uttar Pradesh, 51 trains have left to Bihar, 10 trains to Madhya Pradesh, six each to Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh, one each to Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Kerala and Uttarakhand,” he said while adding that more trains will run in coming days.A THOUGHTFUL GESTUREAgarwal added that the division and district administration Reasi have collaborated with Katra based non-government organisation to provide toys, gifts, toffee and chocolates to children aboard the Shramik Special Train from Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra Station to Chattarpur in Madhya Pradesh.He said that this small effort was made to bring smiles on the faces of little ones who have to travel a long distance in the train.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ferozepur-division-s-250th-shramik-special-train-departs-from-ludhiana/story-j6jIrJ5OCdpiAqLbuZWCDP.html
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||Nearly half of two-wheelers impounded by Chandigarh traffic police during lockdown yet to be claimed||Most of the cars and auto rickshaws that were impounded after the lockdown was imposed in Chandigarh on March 24 have been released, but 48% of the two-wheelers are yet to be claimed.As per the data available with the challaning branch of the traffic police, total 10,576 vehicles have been impounded since March 24, and 4,548 (43%) vehicles are yet to be released. Of these, 217 (13%) of total 1,664 four-wheelers and 4,219 of the total 8,781 two-wheelers lie unclaimed.The percentage of unclaimed vehicles is highest for auto rickshaws, at 84%, even though only 132 three-wheelers were impounded, out of which 20 have been released.Speaking about this, deputy superintendent of police (DSP, traffic) Kewal Krishan said, “Challans as high as Rs 10,000 were slapped on most of these two-wheelers for not carrying valid documents during the curfew. People with cars also had to pay large fines, but most cars have been released. It is possible that car owners have higher spending power.”The DSP added that one reason why people were not claiming autos could be that plying of three-wheelers was banned in the city till May 19.Almost 30% (2,001) of the vehicles impounded during the curfew period till May 4 are yet to be released. On the other hand, 70% (2,547) of the total vehicles impounded during the lockdown between May 4 and May 23 are still lying unclaimed.Vehicles can be claimed by paying the challans at Traffic Lines in Sector 29, Chandigarh. The process takes five days and the traffic police have had to make special arrangements to house such a large number of vehicles.OVER ₹1 CRORE COLLECTED IN TRAFFIC PENALTIES AMID LOCKDOWNSince the beginning of the curfew, the traffic police have collected Rs 1.03 crore in fines. This amount accounts for 20% of their average yearly collection of around ₹5 crore. As per data, Rs 83,23,000 was collected while the curfew was on in the city till May 4, while Rs 20,11,500 was made between May 4 and May 23. Police officers said that most challans were issued during the curfew for driving without permission and upon checking their papers it was found they didn’t have proper driving license, registration certificate and third party insurance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nearly-half-of-two-wheelers-impounded-by-chandigarh-traffic-police-during-lockdown-yet-to-be-claimed/story-qv3omlpwnzyBReE38WxtcL.html
24-05-2020||City||32-year-old knocked down by speeding vehicle at Mumbai’s Seven Bungalows area||A 32-year-old government employee was killed after an unidentified person knocked him down at Seven Bungalows in Andheri (West) on Friday night. The incident came to light when a resident spotted the victim, identified as Dattaram Mandavkar, lying injured and called the police around 1.30am. A team of police offers rushed Mandavkar to Cooper Hospital, where he died during treatment.Mandavkar’s elder brother Balkrishna said, “He was sleeping at home. As it was very hot, he may have gone out for a walk. There was an injury mark on his body, which I think could have been caused with a stick or a rod.”Versova police officers said they are checking the CCTV footage of the area to identify the vehicle. “It is a case of hit and run. We have registered a case of rash driving and causing death due to negligence against the unidentified motorist,” Raghvendra Thakur, senior police inspector, Versova police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/32-year-old-knocked-down-by-speeding-vehicle-at-mumbai-s-seven-bungalows-area/story-2tVdK2ZRFU22y2Impabn4O.html
24-05-2020||City||City back on aerial map, 7 flights resume tomorrow||After a gap of two months, Chandigarh international airport is ready to resume its operations with a schedule of 13 of the 44 flights, seven of which will start from Monday, two on May 27 and four on June 1.The Airports Authority of India (AAI) released the schedule of flights to and from Chandigarh on Saturday. These flights will connect seven destinations — Srinagar, Delhi, Mumbai, Leh, Bangalore, Dharamshala and Ahmedabad.The flight operations at the airport were shut since March 24 due to nationwide lockdown in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.Airport’s chief executive officer (CEO) Ajay Bhardwaj said they have also formulated SOPs for the safety of passengers and airport staff, which include social distancing, stringent thermal screening. “Passengers are requested to adhere to all the instructions and carry printed boarding pass,” he said.“We are expecting a footfall of 5,000 to 6,000 on Day One. Frequency of flights and more destinations will be added gradually. Our office is working as it was before the lockdown and the security is in place. Checking of passengers will be done according to the government guidelines.”The airport suffered a loss of ₹15 crore due to suspension flights for two months.Vivek Nijhawan, in-flight caterer at the airport, was of the opinion that food should have been allowed during the flight.DOS AND DON’TS FOR PASSENGERS 1.Passengers to reach airport two hours ahead of the flight timing with proper protective gear — mask, gloves, and sanitisers.2.Only flyers with confirmed web check-in will be allowed to enter the airport terminal.3.Passengers must compulsorily walk through a thermal screening zone before entering the airport terminal building.4.No food will be served inside the flight5.Only the asymptomatic will be allowed to travel.6.All flyers must instal Aarogya Setu app on their phones except the children below the age of 14 years. If they do not show “green” on Aarogya Setu mobile app or do not have the government contact tracing app, they will not be allowed to fly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/city-back-on-aerial-map-7-flights-resume-tomorrow/story-yDB4bavUcc5JnDqZZrCWDK.html
24-05-2020||Mumbai||At 46.5°C, Nagpur is second-hottest location in India||Nagpur was the hottest location in the state and the second-hottest in India on Saturday as heatwave conditions gripped the city and surrounding areas of the Vidarbha subdivision.Nagpur’s maximum temperature on Saturday was 46.5 degrees Celsius, 3.7 degree Celsius above normal, which is the season’s highest maximum temperature so far, the weather bureau said. The second-highest maximum temperature in the state was recorded at Akola at 46 degrees Celsius.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD’s) bulletin issued at 9pm, Churu in west Rajasthan was the hottest at 46.6 degrees Celsius. An orange alert (be prepared) for heatwave conditions has been issued for all districts in Vidarbha till May 27, while a yellow alert (be alert) has been issued for Marathwada for Sunday and Monday. Severe heatwaves are likely to impact parts of northwest, central and peninsular India in the next four to five days, while many parts of northeast India will experience very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall during the same period, IMD said in a statement on SaturdayThe heatwave is likely to affect relief and rehabilitation work related to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic that is ongoing across many parts of the country. However, with a lockdown still in effect across India, albeit with considerable relaxation of restrictions, there is not likely to be as much movement of people or vehicles as there might have been otherwise. “Extremely hot conditions are expected to continue and for this reason we have escalated the level of alert for isolated areas in Vidarbha. Nagpur and Akola were the hottest in the state on Saturday, and could very well be the hottest over the next couple of days. During this period, hot and dry northwesterly winds come from Rajasthan and Gujarat over this region leading to this heat wave. This is the normal weather synoptic feature during this time of the year,” said ML Sahu, deputy director general of meteorology, IMD Nagpur.Although Nagpur’s maximum temperature was the highest this season, it did not beat any records. Last year, the weather station recorded 47.5 degrees Celsius on May 28 while the all-time high was recorded on 47.9 degrees Celsius on May 23, 2013. Nagpur had recorded 47.8 degrees Celsius in 1954, 47.7 degrees Celsius in 2003 and 47.6 degrees Celsius in 2005, according to IMD’s historical data.Other weather stations in the Vidarbha sub division that recorded high day temperatures included Chandrapur and Amravati at 45.6 degrees Celsius, Wardha 45.5 degrees Celsius, Gondia 45.4 degrees Celsius, and Yavatmal 45.2 degrees Celsius.Sahu added that heat wave conditions were declared across Nagpur, Akola and Chandrapur on Friday itself but four other districts (with maximum temperatures above 45 degrees Celsius) were added on Saturday. “We declared heat wave conditions when actual maximum temperature remains 45 degrees Celsius or more irrespective of normal maximum temperature or if the maximum temperature is 4.6 degrees Celsius above normal,” he said.An orange alert is issued when a heatwave is likely to persist for more than four days or a severe heatwave for more than two days. There is a high risk of heat-related illnesses such as a heat stroke for people exposed to the sun for prolonged hours or doing heavy work; children, elderly and people with chronic diseases are also vulnerable. IMD has suggested people avoid heat exposure and stay hydrated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/at-46-5-c-nagpur-is-second-hottest-location-in-india/story-ORVlLBjZH0PweRlA2e7pyL.html
24-05-2020||Mumbai||More than 1,000 coronavirus cases in 11 wards in Mumbai||On Saturday, G (North) Ward, which covers Dharavi, Dadar and Mahim, becomes first ward in the city with more than 2,000 reported cases. Of the 2,005 cases in this ward, 1,514 are from Dharavi (33 new cases were reported on Saturday) and the rest are spread across Dadar and Mahim. Many Covid-19 hotspots have reported spikes in reported cases in the last 10 days. According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) data, around 11 administrative wards out of the 24 in the city, now have more than 1,000 reported cases. On Saturday, N ward, which covers Ghatkopar, crossed the 1,000 mark with 1,012 cases. Daksha Shah, deputy executive health officer, said, “The cases are on the expected lines and we are expecting the city to reach somewhere near 40,000 cases by the end of May.”The five wards with the most cases have seen increased numbers in the last 10 days. G (North) ward (Dharavi, Dadar and Mahim) climbed to 2,005 cases on Saturday, compared to 1,316 in May 13. G (South) ward (Worli and Prabhadevi) had 1,206 cases on May 13 and 1,490 cases on May 22. E ward, (Byculla and Mazgaon) reported 1,085 cases as of May 13 and 1,571 cases on May 22. In F (North) ward (Wadala, Sion and Matunga), the number climbed from 1,008 cases on May 13 to 1,534 on May 22. K (West) ward, (Andheri (West), Jogeshwari (West) and Oshiwara), had 1,026 cases on May 13 and 1,510 cases on May 22.Emerging trends show spikes in cases from areas like L ward (Kurla), which had 1,450 cases on May 22 compared to 942 cases on May 12; M (East) ward (Mankhurd, Govandi), which had 1,140 cases on May 21 compared to 771 on May 12. Two other areas that saw drastic increases in the last 10 days are N ward (Ghatkopar), which reported 318 cases on May 12 and now has 1,012. Bandra (East), Santacruz East of H (East) ward reported 1,439 cases on May 22 compared to 859 on May 12. F (South) ward, which includes Parel and Sewri, reported 557 cases on May 12 but has crossed the 1,000 mark as of May 22. Andheri (East), which comes under K (East) ward has also seen increase in cases — 744 reported cases on May 12 compared to 1,055 cases on May 22.Last week, BMC commissioner Iqbal Chahal had visited areas in M (East) ward, which includes Mankhurd and Govandi, and asked BMC officials to quarantine 10 people related to every positive case. He also ordered BMC officials to ensure private health care facilities were available in the area. Corporators from areas where cases have increased drastically said citizens need to cooperate with the administration while the BMC must work to ensure healthcare is made available to patients. Vitthal Lokare, the Shiv Sena corporator from Mankhurd said, “I understand there are a lot of problems to be tackled by the administration, but still there are many areas in my ward where citizens are out on the streets. In the end, citizens need to understand, and stay indoors.Kaptan Malik, a Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) corporator from Kurla, said, “The cases are increasing day by day, and I feel administration needs to pay more attention to areas of Kurla. There is no proper quarantine or isolation facility in my ward. This needs to be made available for citizens from my area. The officials are working day and night, but somehow it is not enough for the number of cases that has to be handled.”Additional municipal commissioner Ashwini Bhide wrote on Twitter, “BMC has set up 298 Covid-19 care centre-1 [CCC-1] with 32,700 bed capacity. So far, 42,500 people were housed there and 24,800 have got discharged after completing quarantine.” CCC-1 house high-risk contacts from slums who cannot quarantine at home.The areas where the number of reported cases remain low (between 200 to 700 cases) include Dahisar, Borivli, Kandivli, Malad, Goregaon, Mulund, Bhandup, Marine Lines, Dongri and Kalbadevi. In R (North) ward, the number of reported cases has doubled since May 12 (when it had 101 cases) but with 238 reported cases as of May 22, the ward covering Dahisar and parts of Borivli has reported the lowest number of cases in the city.M (West) ward, which includes Chembur, and D ward, which includes Malabar Hill and Chowpatty, have seen a steady increase in the last 10 days. There were 809 cases on May 21, compared to 511 on May 12. In D Ward, there were 812 reported cases on May 22, compared to 563 cases on May 12.Madhav Sathe, former professor of microbiology at Nair Hospital, said, “I assume that in the coming days though cases will go up, but mortality rate will remain the same or come down slightly. Citizens must continue the use of masks, social distancing and hand washing. But I feel relaxation in lockdown restrictions and movement of migrants is also responsible for higher positive cases in last six days in India. However, we must appreciate extraordinary efforts of all frontline healthcare workers, and ensure we stay safe indoors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/more-than-1-000-coronavirus-cases-in-11-wards-in-mumbai/story-ljHyWm8HUpFDwmmAbgw2yO.html
24-05-2020||Mumbai||55% Olive Ridley babies in Maharashtra didn’t survive in 2019-20||Only two-fifths of all Olive Ridley turtle hatchlings made their way to the sea in Maharashtra between 2019 and 2020.According to data collated from different forest ranges by the state mangrove cell and Maharashtra Mangrove Foundation on World Turtle Day (May 23), 12,149 hatchlings survived from 27,254 eggs during 2019-20, which is a survival rate of 44.5%.In 2018-19, the survival rate was 54.4%, with 12,601 hatchlings that made it to sea from a total of 23,131 eggs.Sporadic nesting of turtles is reported from an average of 33 sandy beaches across three districts in Konkan – Raigad, Ratnagiri, and Sindhudurg. While Sindhudurg witnessed a marked improvement in survival rate, from 47.3% in 2018-19 to 74.3% in 2019-20, Ratnagiri observed a decline to 34% in 2019-20 against 57.4% in 2018-19. Raigad also witnessed a drop from 65.4% to 52.2% over two years.“We must realise that this is preliminary information, and there might be several data gaps since this annual statistical collation from three districts is a relatively new process. We need to study the pattern for at least 10 years to come up with exact trends,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (mangrove cell).Olive Ridley sea turtles are found in warm tropical currents of the Indian and Pacific oceans. A schedule I species under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, they travel thousands of kilometres in the ocean, with only the females returning to their original nesting sites within a minimum of two years, to lay eggs. After a 50 to 60-day incubation period, juvenile turtles break the eggshell, dig through the sand, and crawl to the sea. While females return to their place of birth, males never return to land. “Female turtles use geomagnetic imprinting [navigating to their geographic area of origin using magnetic field] and olfactory [relating to the sense of smell] cues to find their natal areas,” said Harshal Karve, marine biologist, Mangrove Foundation.Changes in weather patterns are the main reason for the fall in survival rate, said Mohan Upadhyay, livelihood assistant, Mangrove Foundation. “Firstly, nesting was delayed due to a series of extreme weather events including heavy rain coupled with cyclones in the Arabian Sea last monsoon. The winter was much warmer than previous years for coastal districts. Following this, there was a spike in maximum temperatures this year from late February. When temperatures rise, it affects the incubation period, resulting in a lower survival rate,” said Upadhyay.Independent experts, however, said the survival rate does not depend completely on extreme weather factors. “Hatchling survival is affected by rising beach temperature and prolonged rainy days can damage some nests. But proper management and protection for natural nests can address these issues. However, even a 44% survival rate for natural in-situ nests is not bad. Focused conservation can help improve this,” said Basudev Tripathi, senior scientist, Zoological Survey of India and member of International Union for Conservation of Nature. Meanwhile, the Mangrove Foundation has commissioned a research study to assess the incubation temperature of nests along the Maharashtra coast. The project is being undertaken by a PhD scholar from the Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun. “Atmospheric temperature plays a major role in developing and determining the sex of baby turtles. Temperature data loggers have been deployed at various turtle nesting sites in Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg, and the results will help us understand the nesting ecology,” said Karve.A similar study undertaken by the Mangrove Foundation – comparing nesting data from 2002 to 2006 and 2014 to 2019 – has shown that the peak nesting period had shifted from winter months (December) to early summer months (February-March). “Many nests which are now being laid along the Maharashtra coast during the February-March period hatch out in the summer months of April-May when the ambient and sand temperatures tend to be on the higher side [above 32 degrees Celsius], which may lead most of the turtle hatchling to be females. Also, higher nest temperature data suggests a lower survival rate for hatchlings,” said Tiwari. “We are therefore developing solutions to ensure that the hatchlings are protected from higher temperatures through the use of sheds, regular monitoring, and litter-free turtle nesting habitats.”Using some of the results, this year green sheds were installed to cover nesting sites from direct sunlight and high temperatures. “However, the Covid-19 lockdown made material transport difficult,” said Upadhyay.The state forest department, with local NGO Sahayadri Nisarg Mitra, has been educating local communities on sea turtle conservation. “From locating nesting sites, excavation, relocation of eggs, fencing nets, and preventing poaching and flooding, around two persons per nesting site have been trained. The volunteers have begun collating information about the process from nesting to hatching,” said Karve.To further boost turtle conservation, earlier this month the forest department introduced an honourarium of ₹15.63 lakh to locals in Ratnagiri, while the Sindhudurg district administration provided ₹6lakh to ₹8 lakh annually under its conservation management plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/55-olive-ridley-babies-in-maharashtra-didn-t-survive-in-2019-20/story-MOieY3yW01XJQyqj2ueIeI.html
24-05-2020||City||Union govt not serious about migrants’ issues: Rathore||State Congress president Kuldeep Rathore on Saturday lashed out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi led Union government for present condition of migrant labourers and demanded him to apologise to the people of the country, saying the Union government cannot escape from their responsibilities. In a statement issued here, he said the Congress is trying to help migrant labourers but Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is politicising the matte. BJP also stopped General Secretary of All India Congress Committee (AICC) Priyanka Gandhi Wadra, who had arranged buses for migrant labourers. He said that BJP leaders are not are not helping migrants.He said that even economists were not able to make sense of PM Narendra Modi’s ₹20-lakh crore relief package. Many announcements were made in the package, but how those will be fulfilled are beyond anybody’s comprehension.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/union-govt-not-serious-about-migrants-issues-rathore/story-hpJz5N115x3he7xB1C2usK.html
24-05-2020||City||J&K tally breaches 1,500 mark with 21 deaths||A corona positive woman died at Sheri Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences(SKIMS) in Srinagar on Saturday, taking the death toll due to the disease in the Union Territory to 21.Eighty fresh cases were tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the UT’s count to 1,569. First case was reported in J&K on March 9.Officials said that a 55-year-old woman, a resident of Botengo Anantnag, who was admitted in SKIMS on May 6, died in the morning.“She had come in a critical condition with sepsis and multiple organ failure. We tested her for Covid-19 and she turned out positive for the virus. She was on ventilator and lost her life on Saturday,” said medical superintendent of SKIMS, Farooq Jan. So far 21 persons – 19 in Kashmir division and two in Jammu division – have died in J&K due to the disease. Officials said that of the 80 new positive cases, 59 were reported in Kashmir division, while 21 were tested positive in Jammu division.“ In J&K, 80 new positive cases have been reported since our update yesterday (Friday),” a government statement said.In the 10 districts of Kashmir division, fresh cases were reported in Anantnag, Kulgam, Srinagar, Bandipora, Baramulla,Kupwara and Pulwama districts, taking the count in the division to 1,330.A jump of 36 cases was recorded in Kupwara district, while there were single digit jump in other districts of the Valley.Of the fresh cases in Kashmir, 14 tested positive from the 620 samples tested at CD Hospital, said nodal officer Covid, government medical college, Srinagar, Dr Salim Khan.“Among today’s positive cases, a doctor, who is a resident of Habak in Srinagar but posted in Bandipora, tested positive for the virus,” he said.In Jammu division, the cases were recorded in jammu, Kathua, Ramban, Kishtwar and Poonch districts, taking the tally to 239 there.“54 more patients recovered and were discharged from different hospitals, two from Jammu and 52 from Kashmir,” the official statement read.In Srinagar, 21 persons were discharged from Jawaharlal Nehru Memorial Hospital, bringing down the active cases to just above 50.“ Good things take time. Srinagar’s 21 COVID +ve persons discharged after recovery at JLNM Hospital. Commendable efforts of docs & strength of patients. We now have 50 active cases. Efforts to #BreakTheChain will pay dividends,” tweeted deputy commissioner, Srinagar, Shahid Choudhary.So far 774 out of the total 1569 cases have recovered from the disease, which means a recovery rate of 49 per cent. Of the recovered , 702 are from Kashmir and 72 from Jammu division.At present, active cases in Kashmir stand at 609 and 165 in Jammu.Till date, 1.30 lakh people in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance — 32,056 in home quarantine, 74 in hospital quarantine and 26,686 under home surveillance. Besides, 70,586 people have completed their 28-day surveillance period.3 fresh cases in LadakhThree new Covid-19 positive cases were detected in Ladakh on Saturday, taking the tally to 49.Officials said that all three patients were residents of Kargil, had travel history and were in institutional quarantine.“Two Iran returnee ( residents of Kargil ) under Institutional Quarantine at #kargil have tested #COVID19 Positive. One Student who returned from Jammu ( resident of Kargil ) tested #covid19 Positve. The student was in institutional quarantine. Now shifted to Covid Hospital,” tweeted commissioner secretary,health and medical education,Ladakh, Rigzin Samphel. Total active cases in UT are six, five in Kargil and one in Leh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-tally-breaches-1-500-mark-with-21-deaths/story-9FcjgMOpBTNrtoNjcMNwjI.html
24-05-2020||City||Thane’s Covid case tally is 1,891||In the second highest one-day spike in Thane, 134 new Covid cases were reported on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in the city to 1,891. Two deaths were also reported, taking the death toll to 65.The Lokmanyanagar Sawarkarnagar and Wagale Estate ward recorded the highest increase of 42 and 25 cases respectively.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of Thane Municipal Corporation, said, “Sixty out of the 134 who tested positive are from our quarantine centres. They were close contacts of those found positive. Two deaths were reported from Kalsekar Hospital in Mumbra. A 73-year old-man from Charai and a 51-year-old man from Sawarkarnagar died during treatment in the hospital.”Thirty people were also discharged on Saturday taking the total number of discharged patient to 616.With the increasing complaints of unavailability of ambulances, the TMC has hired 10 private vehicles, seven school buses and 10 midi buses of Thane Municipal Transport which will be converted into ambulances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-s-covid-case-tally-is-1-891/story-WBvoRUQMjrhdIQ7l6uocgJ.html
24-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra opposes resumption of domestic flights||The Maharashtra government is not in favour of resuming domestic flights to and out of Mumbai, even as it decided to once again request the Centre to allow resumption of local trains for essential services workers. The state has written to the Centre that domestic flight operations from the Mumbai airport cannot be started from Monday. It has, however, said that the state has no problem over the operation of transit flights via Mumbai, the city with the highest number of Covid-19 cases in India It is learnt that the state government has informed the civil aviation ministry that in the absence of required infrastructure at Mumbai airport, it cannot allow domestic flights to land. The ministry had announced that domestic flight operations will begin from Monday from various cities, including Mumbai. Meanwhile, the call on requesting the Centre’s nod for local trains was taken following a high-level meeting between CM Uddhav Thackeray, his senior cabinet colleagues, and NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Saturday.“We have written a letter to the Centre, clarifying that we do not have infrastructure to handle the passengers arriving in the city. It has also been written to them that the city has too many containment zones and more people cannot be allowed to move in there. In such a scenario, residential arrangements for them could be a major problem. The scanning of passengers and then allocating them quarantine facilities at hotels is not possible at this juncture when hospitals and hotels are being acquired for existing patients,” said an official.Similarly, taxi, auto and aggregator services are prohibited till May 31 and cannot be allowed only for air passengers, the official added. “Ground-level transportation facilities may become a major problem if we allowed flights. Allowing passengers from other states to alight at the Mumbai airport and travel to their respective hometowns and the arrangement for their transportation, too, was not possible. This could even prove risky in terms of containing the virus spread,” said another official. In the letter, the state has said that it has no issue over the operation of transit flights between two cities via Mumbai. “We, however, have directed the Mumbai International Airport Limited to put the infrastructure in place for the emergency flight operations, including flying stranded students in other countries and operations for medical emergencies,” the letter has stated.Though the Centre was pushing for resumption of the flights, the state government is believably hell-bent on its decision as it has decided to not amend the notification, which continues the ban on flight operations till May 31. The state’s leadership is also wary of allowing flight operations because the initial surge in cases was due to passengers landing at three airports in the state.Top sources from Mumbai airport, however, said that the airport will be operational as per the Central government’s order. “It is the responsibility of the state government to ensure passengers don’t face inconvenience during their road travel. The airport, however, is fully prepared and will commence flight operations from Monday,” said the airport source.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-opposes-resumption-of-domestic-flights/story-Ik4x9amSdsOYqMCa12JhxN.html
24-05-2020||Mumbai||2,608 fresh cases push up state count to 47,190||Maharashtra on Saturday continued its grim trend of more than 2,000 Covid-19 cases in a day — the seventh in a row — with 2,608 fresh infections, taking the state’s tally to 47,190.The state also reported 60 more deaths, bringing the toll to 1,577.Also on Saturday, Covid-19 cases in India saw the highest single-day spike for the second consecutive day with 6,413 new infections reported in a 24-hour span, taking the tally to over 1.29 lakh, while the death toll rose to 3,795 after 143 more fatalities. Mumbai, the worst-hit city in the country, reported 1,566 new infections and 40 deaths over the past 24 hours, taking its tally to 28,817 and death toll to 949. In a bleak first, Mumbai recorded more than 1,000 cases per day over the past week. The state recorded 16,650 cases and 342 deaths in the past week at an average of 2,379 cases and 68 deaths a day. In Mumbai, the past week saw 10,262 cases at a daily average of 1,466 cases and 253 deaths at a daily average of 36. Of the day’s 60 deaths, 40 were in Mumbai, 14 in Pune, two in Solapur, one each in Vasai-Virar, Thane, Nanded and Satara. The state health department has, however, clarified that of the total deaths, 42 were in the past 24 hours, while the remaining were over the past fortnight. Twenty-nine of the patients who died were above 60 years of age, while 24 were in the age group of 40 to 59 years and the remaining were below the age of 40 years. Thirty-six of them had high-risk comorbidities, including diabetes, hypertension and heart ailments.The month of May saw 36,692 cases and 1,118 deaths in Maharashtra, which included 21,756 cases and 659 deaths in Mumbai. This means 77.75% cases and 70.897% deaths in the state have happened in the past 23 days. The first case of Covid-19 in the state was on March 9. After having crossed 25,000 cases on May 13, the next 5,000 in the state were reported in just three days. The 40,000 mark was breached on May 21 in just five days and another 5,000 infections were amassed in just two days. On May 9, the state tally had touched 20,220. The state took 53 days for its first 10,000 cases.State health minister Rajesh Tope said although cases are on a constant rise in the state, the mortality rate and ratio of cases is much better than many countries and Indian states. “The number of cases per million in US is 4,483, UK 3,709, Spain 4,948, Italy 3,732, Germany 2,130, while in Maharashtra it’s 332. Our number of patients is rising and there is no point denying it. It is because the containment in densely populated areas like Mumbai and MMR is very difficult. But we are prepared to face it. We are augmenting the capacity of Covid Care Centres to 1 lakh beds, Dedicated Covid Centre Health Centres to 15,000 beds and ICU beds to 2,000 in Mumbai,” he said. Tope also spelled out the comparative figures for the mortality rate at the international and national level. He said the mortality rate in US per million is 271, UK 524, Spain 592, Germany 97, while in Maharashtra it is 11. The mortality rate against positive patients in Maharashtra is 3.5%, as against 8.44% in West Bengal, 4.72% in Madhya Pradesh and 5.92% in Gujarat.“Although the number of patients is on the rise in Mumbai, the doubling rate has improved to 14 days. We may not need additional facilities of beds being set up at makeshift arrangements, but the government is all set to take on any eventuality,” chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said during his video conference with doctors attached with the hospitals run by the government, municipal corporation and the doctors of the task force appointed by the government. According to a report prepared by the medical education and drugs department on May 23, the mortality rate in the state stood at 3.40%, down from 7.21% on April 12 and 3.71% on May 12. The country’s mortality rate hovers around 2.97%. The report stated that 69% of the admitted patients are asymptomatic, 26% are symptomatic and 5% critical. The number of tests in the state touched 3,48,026 on Saturday. A total of 2,98,696 of them were negative, which means 14.17 % tested positive. Of the 15,249 samples tested in the past 24 hours, 2,608 tested positive at 17.10%.A total of 4,85,623 people are currently under home quarantine, while 33,545 are under institutional quarantine. A total of 16,414 teams of health workers have screened 65.91 lakh people; 13,404 patients, including 821 on Saturday, have fully recovered from various hospitals after testing positive in the past ten weeks. The recovery rate in the state has reached 28.40%. The state has 2,345 containment zones. According to officials, the rate is expected to see a rise for the next couple of weeks until the downward trend begins. “The spike is owing to the figures in Mumbai and other densely populated cities. Going by the global trend we expect the downward trend to begin in next two weeks and the curve to flatten in another few days,” he said. Meanwhile, the state government extended its Mahatma Jyotibha Phule Jan Arogya Yojana, the mediclaim scheme covering 996 procedures treated in 1,000 empanelled hospitals, to its entire state population. The scheme, which was applicable to 85% of the population with orange and yellow ration cards, will now be available to all until July 31. The notification in this respect was issued on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-608-fresh-cases-push-up-state-count-to-47-190/story-ShuwaUnOuEsMHUm8z3NjnK.html
24-05-2020||City||Cops take action against 150 bikers in Ulhasnagar||In a major crackdown on two-wheelers and non-essential shops found flouting the lockdown norms, the Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation along with the police took action against 150 bikers and 11 shops on Saturday. The civic body also served notices to 80 shops selling essentials without following social distancing and other safety norms such as not wearing mask and not sanitising the shops. “As per the lockdown norms, only one person is allowed in a two-wheeler. Those riding pillion faced action from the police,” said Ganesh Shimpi, assistant commissioner, UMC.The Ulhasnagar police seized the keys of 150 two-wheelers.The civic officials also took action against the non-essential shops which were open flouting rules. The civic body registered first information report (FIR) against 11 shop owners under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code (IPC).“Shops selling clothes and footwear are not allowed to open during lockdown. Such shops have been booked under Section 188 of IPC,” said Shimpi.The UMC recorded 166 Covid positive cases till Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cops-take-action-against-150-bikers-in-ulhasnagar/story-schPY9Ml3R2dOXtgceMWyO.html
24-05-2020||Mumbai||Corona warriors in khaki to be honoured with medal||In order to appreciate and honour the exemplary efforts of the men and women in khaki, who are among the frontline workers dealing with the pandemic, the state government has decided to honour the Corona warriors from the police force with emergency service medals. “The home minister recently approved the idea and directed the home department to proceed further. Following this, the home department in a letter dated May 22 asked the director-general of police (DGP) office to submit a detailed proposal for the same,” a police officer said.Kulwant K Sarangal, additional DG (establishment) confirmed the development and said, “The project is at very premature stage. I will discuss it with my superiors and prepare a detailed proposal.”Police personnel from constable to police inspector rank would be eligible for this medal, the source added.In the last two months, many police personnel went beyond the duty line to help the people in distress. This included helping migrants stranded on roads and in slums. Some men in khaki even went to an extent of performing last rituals of those deceased people who had no one in the city to look after them and showed a great side of humanity, an ACP-rank officer said.In Maharashtra, 1,671 personnel tested positive for Covid-19. This include over 900 personnel from Mumbai alone. Total 18 from the force have died so far in the state.Presently, the family of police personnel losing life due to Covid-19 gets a ₹50 lakh compensation from the government and ₹10 lakh from the police martyrs’ funds. In Mumbai deceased policemen gets an additional ₹10 lakh from the police welfare funds. Besides this, personnel who have a bank account with Axis Bank get premium-free term insurance of ₹5 lakh. One family member of the deceased personnel also gets a job in the department.In Mumbai, over 500 policemen who got infected by the Coronavirus disease while performing duty have been given ₹10,000 each as a token of appreciation.Recovered cops to help positive ones on call The Mumbai Police have started a new practice to help their personnel to recover from Covid-19 by asking those cops who have recovered from the disease to call the ones being treated and share their experiences and routine. This is helping the cops at Covid-care centres to better deal with fear and anxiety which comes with the disease. Vinoy Kumar Choubey, joint commissioner of police, law and order, said, “This practice is really helpful as cops don’t feel they are alone at Covid-care centres and it also helps them in improving their health.” 234 booked, 181 arrested for lockdown violations on FridayThe Mumbai Police lodged 51 FIRs against 234 people and arrested 181 of them for lockdown violations on Friday. In this, a majority of 20 cases are against people gathering in one place, 18 for using vehicles violating lockdown rules, nine for not wearing masks and remaining against shops for operating despite being non-essential services. A majority of 20 FIRs are from the central region, 11 from west suburbs, 10 from eastern suburbs, nine from south Mumbai and one from north Mumbai. 23 personnel from JJ Marg back on duty after recovering About 23 of the 51 police personnel from JJ Marg police station who had tested positive for Covid-19 have reported back on duty this week after recovering from the disease. An assistant police inspector, a police sub-inspector and police constable joined on Saturday. “They were given a warm welcome by their colleagues at work who gave them a round of applause and a salute,” said Sangramsinh Nishandar, DCP, zone 1. 126 Covid warriors attacked in state Since the lockdown started as per Maharashtra Police a total of 85 policemen, one home guard and 40 health professionals have been attacked and injured by people while discharging their duties. (Inputs from Suraj Ojha, Jayprakash S Naidu and Faisal Tandel)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/corona-warriors-in-khaki-to-be-honoured-with-medal/story-guJBizt2b5enm5fVY07o8J.html
24-05-2020||Mumbai||MU unveils grading formula for colleges||More than two weeks after state higher and technical education minister Uday Samant announced that all university students, except final year students, will be promoted based on a gradation formula, the University of Mumbai (MU) released a circular clarifying the rules of gradation. According to the release, MU has requested all affiliated colleges to promote students from non-traditional courses on a 50:50 formula, where 50% is based on internal tests and other projects in the current semester and the other 50% is based on the student’s performance in the previous semester. “If there are any internal exams yet to be completed, colleges should conduct the same online or over phones,” stated the circular released late on Friday.For those from traditional courses (BA, BCom and BSc), where students have no internal marks component, the university has stated that colleges should promote such students on the basis of their performance in the previous semester alone.MU further highlighted that in courses where exams have already been conducted, assessment should be conducted at the earliest. “Colleges should work on the gradation process for all students and results should be declared accordingly and soon, so that institutes can start the process of admissions for all students into the next academic year,” stated the circular.The education minister in his brief earlier this month had requested state universities to schedule all final year exams between July 1 and 30, however, earlier this week Samant approached the University Grants Commission (UGC) requesting permission to skip final year exams and instead promote all students based on their previous performance. However, his recommendation was questioned by the governor of Maharashtra, who is also the chancellor of all state universities. In a previous circular, MU has also made it clear that students with Allowed-To-Keep-Term (ATKT) remarks in their previous semesters will be promoted to the next academic year. “Instead of wasting another academic year, these students are being given a chance to get promoted to the next year, provided they clear these subjects within 120 days of the start of the 2020-21 academic year,” stated previous the university circular.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mu-unveils-grading-formula-for-colleges/story-yTjFBtjy99ZzYtBpeW68RI.html
24-05-2020||Mumbai||BMC to rope in 50 doctors from Marathwada||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will rope in 50 doctors from the green zone in Marathwada to help with the healthcare emergency in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. The total number of Covid-positive patients in Mumbai shot up to 28,817 on Saturday with 1,566 new reported cases 40 deaths from Covid-19.In a recently-held meeting between BMC officials and the state health department, it was decided that doctors from Latur and Beed districts (in the green zone of Marathwada), who are willing to help Mumbai’s public health care system, will be inducted into BMC’s medical staff. Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director of Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), is co-ordinating with different medical colleges and research centres to this end.Last week, a team of 45 doctors from Wardha’s Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences were deployed at Seven Hills Hospital in Marol.Lahane confirmed the development. “We are taking all necessary steps to avoid any shortage of medical staff in Mumbai. Considering the outbreak in the city, we have decided to bring doctors from different districts of the state. Not only from Marathawada, but we are trying to rope in doctors from all green zones. Discussions with many hospitals and medical research centres in green zones are going on,” he said. He also said efforts were underway to bring in doctors with private practices who are less than 45 years old.Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said that with the help of DMER, BMC would deploy doctors brought from other districts at jumbo care facilities like the one at the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) facility at Bandra Kurla Complex. “Considering the manpower requirement, these doctors from others districts and local Covid warriors will be used at jumbo Covid care centres,” he said.Additional municipal commissioner Ashwini Bhide, who supervises assistance to various hospitals, said BMC has 32,000 quarantine beds for high-risk people. For asymptomatic patients, 30,000 beds have been kept ready. “Together, we have around 62,000 beds, which are enough because a large number of people are discharged on a daily basis,” Bhide said. Following guidelines issued by the civic commissioner under the Epidemic Diseases Act, BMC has also taken over more than 4,000 beds from private hospitals and 2,000 more beds at the ward level.On Saturday, BMC confirmed that of the 2,423 Indians who have returned to the city from foreign locations, 1,128 have been quarantined at 43 hotels in Mumbai. The civic body has reserved 3,343 rooms in 88 hotels to keep the passengers returning to India as part of Mission Vande Bharat. Fifteen teams of 50 civic officers have been set up to follow up with the passengers and prevent further spread of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-to-rope-in-50-docs-from-marathwada/story-KvD9XV2HWlATWBpPKoeXlL.html
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh Our Take: Lockdown lessons: Handle children with care||Like so much else, the Covid-19 pandemic has also upended children’s lives, disrupting their schools and the rhythm of their off-school routine. Home bound, they now spend more time glued to smart phones and television screens, hardly getting any time for outdoor activities. All this adds up to stress and anxiety which can impinge on their mental health and well-being.People manning Childline 1098, a service of the women and child development ministry, allowing people to phone in and seek help for children, say the number of parents dialling up to discuss their children’s behavioural problems has increased during the lockdown.Sangeeta Jund, director, Childline 1098, had told Hindustan Times recently that two couples had called to say their children were “virtually out of their control”. While one couple and their child were being counselled, the other, parents of a 16-year-old girl, were firm in their decision to send her away as they said she kept running away from home, issued self-harm threats and refused to give up smoking.The teen has, unfortunately, been moved to a home again.The added stress of managing a household while being locked in, looking after children, performing chores, taking on additional anxieties about living in a world where a pandemic rages, where jobs are drying up and money disappearing fast, is taking its toll on adults.The problem is also magnified when children are expected to start existing within confined spaces, days on end, with anxious adults trying to cope with a never-before-experienced scenario.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 12% to 13% schoolchildren in India have emotional, behavioural and learning problems. Understanding this and seeking help from a counsellor is one way out, but many parents are today mentally conditioned to sweep such issues under the carpet as society still stigmatises them.In all scenarios, however, patience, perseverance and understanding can lead to peaceful coexistence of adults and children at home. Innovative methods and practices brought into play, quality time spent together as a family, exercising and being creative does not just help the child, but the adult as well.It’s still unclear how long the Covid-lockdown will last, but one thing is clear: The changes are here to stay, with such future lockdowns a grim possibility.Parents have their roles cut out. Helping children cope mentally and physically with such scenarios, getting them to expend energy, experience stillness and calm, joy and peace and keeping those brain cells ticking is what adults have to ensure. On them rests the onus of shaping young minds and bodies to take on the uncertain times now and in the future with confidence and positivity,But the question is: Are they equipped to do it?AT HOMEHow should parents handle children’s behavioural problems?What should parents do to equip children to handle the Covid-19 lockdown at home peacefully and productively, especially for those with behavioural/mental health problems? Send your responses to chandigarh@hindustantimes.com by May 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-our-take-lockdown-lessons-handle-children-with-care/story-MqSFvHnUIAxVLdNKfXhL6K.html
24-05-2020||City||Ludhiana liquor contractors shut vends as govt fails to provide relief||Liquor contractors in over a dozen groups in Ludhiana kept their shutters down on Saturday, ruing the government’s failure to provide them relief against the losses incurred during the lockdown period. The city has 96 liquor groups, each having three to four vends on an average. Contractors in other groups are expected to follow suit in the coming days. Areas where vends have been shut include the Model Town market, Malhar Road, Link Road (near Preet cinema), Model Town-Jawaddi road among other areas. Earlier, too, when the state government had allowed the sale of liquor in the state, contractors in Ludhiana had refused to open the vends for at least a week. They had finally relented on May 15 after government assurance that relief would be provided soon.Liquor contractor Varinder Sharma Bobby, who is leading the contractors, said, “Not only in Ludhiana, vends have been closed in Bathinda, Amritsar, Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur and some other places too. We had met ministers, including Vijay Inder Singla (education) and Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria (housing and urban development) last week and they had assured that relief would be provided soon. However, nothing has been done.” Another contractor, on the condition of anonymity, said many were reluctant to open the vends due to low sales but they had earlier opened it under pressure from government and administration. “We want compensation for the loss incurred in the last financial year due to imposition of curfew on March 23. Huge sales are witnessed on March 31 every year but this year, the vends remained closed due to the curfew,” said the contractor, adding, “We also want the withdrawal of quota condition in the excise policy 2020-2021.”Deputy excise and taxation commissioner (DETC) Pawan Garg said that government is expected to announce a relief for contractors in the coming few days. In the meantime, the department is trying to convince the contractors to open their vends, said Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-liquor-contractors-shut-vends-as-govt-fails-to-provide-relief/story-pZvvvTrTNjjvvJpcfA231O.html
24-05-2020||City||Family of Panchkula’s missing Covid-19 patient traced in Faridabad||The wife, younger son and daughter of a 55-year-old male Covid-19 patient, all residents of Sector 2 here, who disappeared soon after he went missing after testing positive, have been traced in Faridabad in Haryana.Health authorities believe the patient, son of a retired Punjab bureaucrat living in Sector 6, could be at the same location.On Friday, only the patient’s elder son, a doctor who had alerted health authorities to his father’s Covid-19 status, was present and self-isolating at home when health teams came looking for the family.The retired bureaucrat and his wife are in quarantine at their home.“Their (the family’s) location has been traced to Faridabad and the patient is also suspected to be there,” a senior official privy to the investigation said on Saturday.“No one was found at the house in Sector 2 on Saturday too, except for the patient’s elder son. The patient’s wife, daughter and younger son had left the house on Friday,” he added.The 55-year-old man tested positive on May 17 after his sample was taken by a Delhi hospital before admission. The patient was treated for oral cancer on May 7 at a private hospital in Mumbai, and had then visited the Delhi branch of the hospital on May 16 for follow-up treatment. Of the 25 patients in the district so far, 23 have been cured and discharged, with one fatality. There is only one active case in Panchkula, which is being treated at the civil hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/family-of-panchkula-s-missing-covid-19-patient-traced-in-faridabad/story-A8kSm6KSeTtXw76qDuGLOK.html
24-05-2020||Mumbai||GoAir to resume flights from June 1||Low-cost carrier- GoAir on Saturday announced that its final flight schedule has been approved and the airline will re-commence flying from June 1. Online bookings for one-third of its pre-Covid summer schedule will be open from May 25 to May 31.The airline said that it is prepared to resume safe flight operations and is awaiting clarity on the readiness of respective states and their airports with regards to acceptance of flights and conditions applicable to passengers arriving there.“Without clarity on these conditions, GoAir does not wish to inconvenience its passengers by putting on sale flights immediately post May 25 which may have conditions for arriving passengers of which they may be unaware. On receiving clarity, GoAir will open its site for bookings after May 25 up to May 31, as, when and where appropriate,” the airline spokesperson said.Assuring its passengers that it is fully equipped to execute Covid-19 specific safety procedures, the airline claimed to have received positive initial customer response. GoAir is the only airline to commence its flight operations from June 1 instead of May 25. After the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) announced re-opening of one-third of the airline’s summer schedule this week, all airlines have commenced online bookings and have announced they plan to commence operations from Monday, May 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/goair-to-resume-flights-from-june-1/story-Wp71snwqbcCPx0cTaxRyII.html
24-05-2020||City||It still remains a wonderful life!||One of the most iconic feel good films of all times is Frank Capra’s 1946 release, It’s a Wonderful Life, starring James Stewart and Donna Reed. Several generations of viewers have found their lives elevated just by watching it. Legend has it that a Canadian judge let off a man who had attempted suicide, but ordered him to go and watch the film! We all know that very often it is the company that a human being keeps and the ideas which are fed into his mind which influence his mindset deeply.The reason why I bring this up is that depression and loneliness are making their presence felt like never before in these Covid inflicted times. Mental illnesses had already been on the rise globally in recent years. One reason is that people are prone to spending more screen time than family time. The pandemic has unfortunately exacerbated the situation and added the element of fear to the minds of the already stressed-out populace.Thus, with news trickling in, of each tragic death due to the virus or in the case of returning migrants in road accidents, the collective mood further plummets. Human lives are precious and until a vaccine is found for this diabolical unseen enemy, we have every reason to be on tenterhooks. But some people are clearly more impacted mentally, than others, whenever negative news reaches their ears or eyes. They plunge, sometimes hopelessly so, into the abyss of depression. Perpetrators of fake news and spreaders of gloom-filled rumours must really be taken to task for worsening the already sullen social atmosphere. Children and the elderly especially need to receive positive vibes from family members who should know better than to keep affirming bad news repeatedly.We are, of course, in the midst of a global ‘war’, the likes of which human history has seldom witnessed. Yet, there are signs that the world is concurrently improving in multiple ways. Doctors and nurses have displayed exemplary fortitude and valour to combat the disease. Police officials and sanitary staff have buckled down to do their stuff without fuss. Government officials, often reviled for their lethargy, have rolled up their sleeves and worked tirelessly to perform their duties. Meanwhile, our defence forces deployed at the border have carried on defending the nation with determination, grit, courage and sacrifice. All such human beings are outdoing themselves in the midst of this crisis and inspiring the rest of us to do our bit, in our own little ways.As previously discussed in this column, the earth’s environment has made a spectacular comeback, with the world having remained largely closed for many weeks and with carbon emissions at their lowest. Pollution related ailments have declined dramatically, and thousands of lives have actually been saved as a result of the improved air quality index. And since automobiles first started zooming on our roads, road accident numbers are currently at their all time lowest. During the lockdown, families have found time for each other as never before, discovering new joys together that would otherwise have remained elusive in their usually frenetic lives. Stories of hope, love, bonding and motivation during the pandemic have reached us from the shores of many lands, often making us smile, even if we become teary eyed while reading them.“There are two types of people in this world”, said Tuco, played magnificently by Eli Wallach, in another classic Hollywood film, The Good, the Bad and the Ugly. Let us not be the type of people who contribute to negative vibrations, by continually cribbing, criticising and complaining. Those who know better, especially parents, must ensure that growing children are adorned with personas which are permeated with positivity and compassion.The swallow is a bird which has forever been associated with joy and hope. Aristotle famously said. “One swallow does not a summer make!” The year 2020 has been written off by many. But today, when the skies are azure once more, one never knows, a flock of swallows may fly past and actually make our summer. In positivity is embedded hope, for mankind. It is, after all, and despite everything, still a wonderful life.vivek.atray@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/it-still-remains-a-wonderful-life/story-OxVVxYIjfaS8Rp1zQe1NwI.html
24-05-2020||City||Wildbuzz| Nature answers a prayer from the heart||You seek the bird, the bird seeks you. No finer an evidence of this birding adage could be imagined than what presented itself to a bird-loving household of Mohali. Shruti Sunny and her husband, Sandeep Singh, along with their son, Sahir, aged a mere 3.5 years, had planned a trip to Dehradun for photographing birds. High on their priority list was the migratory Indian Blue robin that flies back to the Himalayas after spending winter in peninsular India. The couple had received information that the robin comes to Dehradun around the middle of April and spends a few days before mounting an ascent to higher altitudes for the nesting season.However, their trip got cancelled due to the Covid-19 lockdown, as was the case with other tricity birders who had planned similar excursions for early summer. One fine day, cooped up in their Mohali house, Sandeep noticed a wary bird skirting around their garden patch. They initially thought it was a Grey bushchat or an Indian pitta but a photograph revealed it to be none other than the migratory robin! The God of Nature had answered their prayers and dispatched the robin to their doorstep!To lend perspective to the robin’s rarity and the sheer coincidence of it landing in a bird-lovers’ garden, Shruti’s photograph is the first such record of this species from the tricity and only the second record from the broader Inter-State Capital Region (ISCR), encompassing a region falling within a 40 km radius from Chandigarh. The first photographic record of this robin from the ISCR was from Chakki Modh by Kuldip Jaswal on May 7, 2018.Luck and perseverance have brought Shruti, a homemaker, rich birding dividends. In just three years of bird photography, she has bagged two new species for the ISCR (Brown bullfinch and Collared owlet) along with the first robin photograph for the tricity. The total number of bird species recorded in Chandigarh currently stands close to 450 though the updated checklist of the Chandigarh Bird Club is at 432 as it has yet to include some authentic records such as those registered by Shruti. RAIDER OF THE NECTAR TRAINAs the weather warms up, our garden has bloomed with orange tubular flowers very rich in nectar. The resident Purple sunbird family spends most of its time sipping nectar from this particular flower and the fledglings are brought straight to this flowering vine upon leaving the nest. A host of insect species slip up and down the welcoming aisles of the soft orange petals to sip the sweetness of a ripe summer. But there are hunters, too, lurking in the proverbial shadows of exquisite beauty and natural harmony.A Crab spider (family: Thomisidae) prowls around the entrance to the tubular flowers and monitors the steady stream of nectar lovers. I was able to capture on camera the spider preying upon a Hover fly. While devouring the fly, the spider would kick out with its legs in irritation when ants streaming down the tube of petals to the nectar disturbed the hunter’s task and heckled the predator.The sweetest moment came after the spider had fully ingested the fly. Having possibly let out a satisfied burp, the spider turned attention to its larger surroundings and realised that a suspicious-looking object (the camera) was hovering close by! So, the spider promptly slipped out of the tube of petals and hid behind the fold of a petal opening outwards. From there, the spider kept a watch on the camera by peering from behind the petal like a little boy just having managed to stand on his toes and look over the boundary wall of an orchard brimming with beckoning mangoes and litchis. The eyes reflected the lure but mirrored, too, the hesitation and dangers of slipping over the wall to the forbidden fruits. vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nature-answers-a-prayer-from-the-heart/story-GNTYrkJqK6uVgN3BqGV44K.html
24-05-2020||City||Lalitas & Lollitas of Lockdown 4.0||If Alfred Hitchcock’s Rear Window had the fortune to be remade in India Quarantining, it would perhaps be titled Rear Vehra (verandah). Instead of James Stewart, it would star next door’s golu-molu Gupta ji or Sharma ji – crippled not by legs that are plastered but by luxuriantly-haired legs caged by Lockdown – doing the sleuthing about neighbourhood doings or misdoings from their rear verandah. Yes, yes, one has to confess, the comparison of the Khullarjis or Khannajis to Stewart is as odious as likening karelas to exotic kiwis.Or if one be partial to spirits, nah not the spiritedness spilling from diabetic Khannajis and Khullarjis (K&K) as they keep count of cups of sugar-loaded tea consumed on neighbouring balconies or count of cup sizes of female laundry fluttering next-door – but if the partiality be to spirits that spark riots outside liquor vends when Lockdown lifts, then comparing K&Ks to Stewart at Lockdown’s Rear Window is like seeing cousinly resemblance between desi thharra and Sauvignon Blanc.If balconies are India Quarantining’s new Mall Lounges or Living Rooms – be it as a stage for the revival of the Great Evening Tea Ritual or for hosting Taali ‘n’ Thaali theatrics – it is these facades of middle class cramped condo living that are mirroring most the little lifting of Lockdown 4.0.Rear Window OneThese balconies stand like solitary outposts of India Quarantining. All that flutters like flags in the summer breeze is a confluence of clothing that bespeaks middle class India’s “andar ki baat” as well as its surface sartorial story – Laundry of Lockdown.Come the little lifting of Lockdown 4.0, those outposts now boast of two “Ls” – Laundry and Lalitas. The former unmasks the “vest”-ed interests of middle class India, the latter flaunts new normal’s multi-purpose masked face. Multipurpose, because the masks serve a dual purpose – they shield from viruses and also save the memsahib from seeing Lalita’s face screwed into a scowl at the sight of scrubbing.The two “Ls” on Lockdown’s balconies are also a metaphor for the paradigm shift in the “breaking news” boisterousness on Tamasha TV and Twitter – with Arnab, Rajdeep & Co’s “flatten the curve” narratives now rubbing shoulders with “Amphan flattens Bengal” new narratives.The curious case of Lockdown’s Life of Bai.Rear Window TwoThis is the Rear Window that’s seeing death – nah, not the toll from the pandemic, but of a ritual. The little lifting of Lockdown 4.0 is seeing the demise of Quarantine’s Great Indian Evening Tea Ritual, which witnessed a revival during #WorkFromHome, quite like discarded ‘n’ dusty gramophones or transistors springing to life if iPods or iPhones were to be banned.What does one blame it on? Park street. For, most of middle class India Quarantining that had parked itself in the Rear Vehra, is now returning to the park.Quarantine’s Great Evening Tea Ritual Revivalists, who were given to lolling their legs or l-ogling lissome legs leaning from Rear Vehras nextdoor, are now legging it to parks to stretch a leg or two.These beyond-Lockdown balconies found echoes in Tamasha TV footage legging it to beyond-Covid19 narratives, Left, Right and Amphan epicentre.The curious case of Lockdown’s Tea Tradition tottering on its last legs upon bone china, not owing to China.Rear Window 3This is the Rear Vehra that’s not experiencing earth-shaking makeover in Lockdown 4.0.Still no signs of Lalitas, only ‘Lollitas’. Nah, no resemblance to the fabled ‘Lolita’, rather ‘Lollitas’ being creatures of Quarantine – #WFH memsahibs who derive their nomenclature from #NewNormal’s behavioural disorder of “lolling” around laptop in one hand and balancing broomstick in the other.These balconies are still staging Quarantine’s Quick Workouts, as the inmates aren’t yet legging it to park street. While the Lollitajis do the balancing act with broomsticks, their respective Khannajis and Khullarjis exercise neck muscles – by leaning over ledges to l-ogle or learn about neighbours’ political leanings. The leanings being configured from the count of candles lit or not lit next-doors upon Narendra Modi’s candlelight call.The single-point agenda of these balcony gazers too finds resonance in the rhetoricism of Pashas of Primetime, who played up only one party’s version of the Yogi vs Priyanka pandemic posturing.The curious case of the leaning towers of pandemic.chetnakeer@yahoo.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lalitas-lollitas-of-lockdown-4-0/story-2dBhN3irsCC7pONk4Roi8N.html
24-05-2020||City||Punjab CM thanks migrant labourers who chose to stay back and work||Addressing the public during a Facebook live, Punjab chief minister (CM) Captain Amarinder Singh thanked the migrant labourers who chose to stay back and contribute towards Punjab’s economic strength. The CM said, “This is your state and you are a part of it. It is vital for the industry to function to ensure livelihood.”“Of those migrants who had applied for online registration, nearly half had willingly decided to stay back and work in the industry,” said the CM, adding that of the total 2.56 lakh industries in the state, operations have resumed in 1.5 lakh units.On transportation arrangements for migrants wanting to leave the state, he said, “My government has been facilitating the return of migrants through special trains. Besides, 607 buses were sent to Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and Orissa. Around 3.25 lakh of the 13 lakh migrants have returned to their homes on these trains, while 17,000 have returned through buses.”REACHING OUT TO EMBASSIES“The state government is reaching out to embassies of various nations, which are looking to shift their business out of China,”” he said, adding, “The state is in talks with various embassies and offering them all possible support, in terms of land, infrastructure and other facilities. We have written to embassies of various countries and are engaged in talks with Japanese, Korean and Taiwanese embassies in India.”“Given the way we have controlled the situation, we will not need a strict lockdown again,” he said.While replying to questions, the CM said that the decision on opening gyms would be taken after May 31, in line with the Centre’s guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cm-thanks-migrant-labourers-who-chose-to-stay-back-and-work/story-vIXYv36KUoRsSpmZZ6jkbP.html
24-05-2020||Mumbai||Lockdown helps city breathe easy||Researchers have found that the average concentration of most pollutants in the city’s air fell during the first three phases of the lockdown (from March 25 to May 18). An analysis of pollutant data available from the monitoring stations of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), done by Urbanemissions.info, found that the levels of five out of six pollutants were lower in the last two months, as compared to pre-lockdown levels.Urbanemissions.info, an air pollution research group, studied the concentration of particulate matter (PM2.5, PM10), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), sulphur dioxide (SO2), ozone (O3), and carbon monoxide (CO) over the 54 days of lockdown, divided into three phases. The first phase of the lockdown was from March 25 to April 14; the second, from April 15 to May 3; and the third, from May 4 to May 17. Levels were compared with a 30-day average (February 20 to March 22) during the pre-lockdown period. While levels for most pollutants dipped, SO2 saw a spike during lockdown.Average levels of PM2.5 — breathable particulate matter of 2.5 micron size or smaller — fell from 45 microgrammes per cubic metre (µg/m3) during pre-lockdown to 27.8 µg/m3 during the first phase and then to 23.3 µg/m3 and 22.6 µg/m3 in second and third phases respectively. A similar trend was observed for CO and O3. The most substantial decline was witnessed for NO2 — produced by burning of coal, oil, and emissions from vehicle — which fell from pre-lockdown levels of 37.5 µg/m3 to 9.8 µg/m3 during the first phase; 7.3 µg/m3 in the second; and rose to 9.8 µg/m3 in the third.Sarath Guttikunda, founder and director, Urbanemissions.info, said, “In Mumbai, most of the traffic was down, which followed up with reduction in dust resuspension. Emissions from the construction sector were not there while residential open waste burning was limited. Light industry operations too were not there while migration of most low-income groups resulted in reduced biofuel emissions from cooking.”However, the levels of SO2 — a colourless gas with pungent odour and taste that causes respiratory diseases such as asthma, bronchitis and emphysema — spiked during the lockdown. While it fell from 15.4 µg/m3 pre-lockdown to 12.5 µg/m3 during the first phase, a surge was seen during the second (24.6 µg/m3) and third phases (36.2 µg/m3).“Heavy industries such as power and refineries were operating at reduced capacity. Sulphur is sourced from diesel, coal or heavy fuel oil. Since NO2 did not increase, transport as a source can be excluded, which leaves us with coal-based consumption (like power plants and cooking) or heavy fuel oil (like idling ships) as possible sources,” said Guttikunda. He said more investigation was needed to address the source of higher SO2 in Mumbai’s air during April and May.A marginal spike in PM10 (larger, coarser particles) was witnessed during the third phase of the lockdown. “Small fluctuations are expected because of weather, but do not reflect a discernible change that can be attributed to the phases. At the same time, the tropical cyclone towards the east led to a reduction in moisture over parts of the west coast,” said Guttikunda.Meanwhile, Urbanemissions.info also studied five satellite maps (Sentinel 5P satellite data) for 14-day averages between March 9 and May 18 for NO2 concentration. “Between May 4 and May 18, an increase in emission is being witnessed as lockdown restrictions get loosened,” said Guttikunda. “After May 17, in phase four, a change is being witnessed due to reduced restrictions. We are already witnessing an increase in industrial and vehicular activity in most cities, deteriorating air quality. Cities need to opened up in phased manner to ensure the access to clean air is not lost.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lockdown-helps-city-breathe-easy/story-8Q7Dtl1CjZLIv8aTIh42iI.html
24-05-2020||City||A Dalit poet’s ode to migrant labourers, narrated through brush strokes, touches thousands of hearts||Along with the Covid-19 outbreak in India a parallel tale of sorrow is being narrated by migrant labourers walking hundreds or even thousands of miles to return to their homes for the cities they built had no way of sustaining them. This mass exodus with tragic repercussions for many who perished on the way has touched many creative souls. The poet Gulzar described this journey between life and death as the pandemic raged: They will go to die where there is life!Life elsewhereLife indeed was elsewhere for these people whose plight no one understood when the lockdown was announced. People were told to stay at home but these workers who were abandoned overnight by their employers had no home. Hungry, they first ran their own kitchens with meagre provisions, and when everything finished they queued up for charity meals. What could be the way out for them but to walk home even if it meant death?The saga was going on for nearly two months till the government decided to step in and provide them transport and the exodus continues with parents marching with their few belongings, children in tow, tied to suitcases or carried on shoulders. On and on they go with broken slippers discarded and the journey resumed barefoot or discarded plastic bottles tied to their feet. Some walk on barefoot with the burning concrete roads claiming their share of flesh.Dreams die firstThe lost chunk of flesh from an old labourer woman’s bruised foot becomes the metaphor for an artist who paints it live with the recitation of the famous poem by Punjab’s Dalit revolutionary poet Lal Singh Dil. Written in the 1960s it describes a caravan of landless labourers moving on in the evening dusk. The artist, a self-taught painter of Punjab, who has adopted the name of his city as his surname, is Gurpreet Bathinda. His ‘live’ painting has gone viral on social media.Bathinda, who comes from a family of mechanics, chose to be an artist and went about training himself the hard way. Born in 1976, he remembers how he would travel to and from Delhi to see the exhibitions and plays. “This is how I took lessons in painting and much later I obtained degrees in art and history of art”. Talking about this particular painting, Bathinda says: “As I watched the migrant labourers traverse highways, the lines of the famous poem by Dil kept playing on my mind in which he talks about the familiar colours of the evening against which the caravan of landless labourers moves on.”The painter adds that while these times have shone the spotlight on the plight of the labourers, they have always lived like this in poverty, in full public view.People’s poetDil (1943-2007) whose lines accompany the strokes of Bathinda’s brush, was truly a people’s poet. Born in a tanner’s family in Samrala, he was the first in his clan to complete his basic teachers’ training course when he was drawn towards the Naxalite uprising in Punjab. This poem brought him instant literary notice for its authentic portraiture of the lives of labourers: “The long caravan is moving on/ The brave tillers of the land walk away/ Long starved they are leaving/ the land that belongs to another…”Gurpreet says he had heard Dil recite this poem in a documentary on his life and it had touched his heart. “I had not expected the warm response that would come to this live-painting and that it would be shared by lakhs of people. Some friends say that it has been shared without credit to me and my reply is, never mind it is people’s art and belongs to them,” says the artist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/a-dalit-poet-s-ode-to-migrant-labourers-narrated-through-brush-strokes-touches-thousands-of-hearts/story-Iq5k5LQ25ecLij2RKngZ9K.html
24-05-2020||City||MC floats tender for construction of new cow shelter in Ludhiana||The municipal corporation (MC) has floated a tender inviting expression of interest (EoI) to construct a cow shelter (gaushala) near Noorpur Bet area. The last date to submit the bid is June 15. Citing shortage of space in the existing gaushalas, the MC decided to come up with a gaushala on a 10-acre land near Noorpur Bet. The MC is also trying to rope in NGOs for its operations and maintenance. Earlier, the MC had contacted the gaushala on Tibba Road to provide shelter to the animals, but the gaushala management claimed that they have no space for more cattle. Until now, stray cattle were being shifted to Govind Godham on Hambran Road, but it does not have space to accommodate more cattle. The Godham currently shelters over 1,300 cattle in exchange of a fixed amount, which is paid by the MC out of cow cess.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mc-floats-tender-for-architectural-services-to-construct-cow-shelter-in-ludhiana/story-jIeu74CYc9d3sfkpBqv3xJ.html
24-05-2020||Mumbai||Man who threatened UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath arrested in Mumbai||The Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS) arrested a 25-year-old man from Mumbai’s Chunabhatti area on Saturday for allegedly sending a message in which he had threatened to kill Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath “with a bomb”.The message was sent to a Uttar Pradesh Police’s WhatsApp number.The message was sent by a man identified as Kamran Amin Khan who accused the chief minister of being anti-Muslim. It was received by social media cell of UP Police’s integrated emergency response centre UP 112 on Thursday midnight following which an FIR was registered at Lucknow’s Gomti Nagar Police station under the relevant sections.After tracing the number from which the message was sent to Khan, UP Police informed the Maharashtra Police and the ATS began an inquiry. Khan was picked up from Chunabhatti and brought to the Kalachowki ATS unit. During his interrogation he confessed to the crime, an ATS officer said in a press note.Maharashtra ATS has handed over Khan to Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force which is in Mumbai for further inquiry, reports IANS. He will be produced in holiday court on Sunday, added the officer..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ats-arrests-mumbai-man-for-threatening-up-cm-yogi-adityanath/story-ObCzon8Nx7KydIGt636fXP.html
24-05-2020||City||Shops can also open on Sundays: Ludhiana DC||Rubbishing social media rumours about shops and markets not being allowed to open on Sundays, Ludhiana deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal clarified that as per the Punjab government orders, all shops and businesses, except those in malls and shopping complexes, can open between 7am and 6pm. He said these shops and businesses have to strictly follow the guidelines issued by the Punjab government and the health department. Agrawal urged the residents to not fall prey to rumours on social media. He said the curfew will remain in force from 7pm to 7am.He also appealed to the residents to stay indoors to keep themselves and everyone around them safe from the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shops-can-also-open-on-sunday-ludhiana-dc-rubbishes-social-media-rumours/story-siKgbzCeGXQYix0l37vX6J.html
24-05-2020||Patna||Bihar-bound Shramik train reaches Odisha; tweets fly, passengers left clueless||The Indian Railways was left red-faced on Saturday after a Shramik Special train, which started its journey from Mumbai for Madhubani on May 21, reached Odisha’ s Rourkela without intimating the passengers about the change in the route. The news came to the fore after the passengers shared the same on social media.A report quoting senior railway ministry official in Delhi said, “We have decided to run a few of Shramik trains on diverted routes. Some trains are diverted for Bihar via Rourkela to clear congestion.” Meanwhile, a migrant labourer asked, “Are we on the Bharat Darshan trip?”Pramod Singh Yadav, a relative of passenger in the Shramik Special took to Twitter on Saturday and wrote, “The train had departed from Bandra for Darbhanga at 5.30 pm on May 21. Passengers were clueless about train route. It had reached Kustaur station after it had crossed Rourkela in Odisha earlier in the day. No food except biscuit and water was being served to passengers.”Officials at Darbhanga station confirmed that a train from Mumbai was expected to reach Darbhanga via Jhajha by mid night. On the other hand, East Central Railway (ECR) had tweeted that train number 09259 Bandra-Madhubani Shramik Special will arrive at Madhubani at 11.55pm on May 23.“We boarded the Shramik Special train on May 21 to go back to Darbhanga. However, despite 48 hours of journey we are still nowhere near Bihar. We don`t have anything to eat and there is no water in the train,” said a passenger on phone.Meanwhile, a flurry of messages posted in response to passengers’ queries ended up without much help. In return, the Indian Railway Sewa tweeted: Kindly share the train originating date and time besides current location.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bihar-bound-shramik-train-reaches-odisha-tweets-fly-passengers-left-clueless/story-sMtBUFgavBM4ULpNJ7c9IO.html
24-05-2020||City||Second IAS officer appointed in Thane to tackle Covid||As Covid cases in Thane are increasing rapidly, the state government has appointed another IAS officer to tackle the situation.Ranjeet Kumar, appointed as special officer, will be the second IAS officer besides the present Thane civic commissioner Vijay Singhal. The new officer will have the same rights as that of the civic commissioner with respect to some projects. He will be in charge of setting up the new 1,000-bed hospital at Global Impact Hub in Saket.The number of cases in the city has increased from 300 on May 1 to 1,891 on May 23.The demand for another IAS was made by the Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party corporators during a recent meeting with guardian minister Eknath Shinde. The state has approved the demand. Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “Kumar has been sent as a special officer from the state. The civic commissioner along with the elected representatives had made the demand of more manpower to tackle the Covid situation. TMC commissioner Vijay Singhal has given him the responsibility to oversee the work of the 1000-bed hospital. He will also be in-charge of carrying out surveillance in containment zones.”In these two aspects, he will have equal power as that of the municipal commissioner to approve funds and take decisions. Kumar was the coordinator of information technology department in the Mantralaya. In Thane, he will be assisted by deputy municipal commissioner Vishwajeet Kelkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/second-ias-officer-appointed-in-thane-to-tackle-covid/story-cqut39RZlZZzmeW0FrEjqI.html
24-05-2020||Pune||Our control room for epidemics has been active for the last 11 years, says Dr Amar Fettle||On May 2, the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) lauded the Covid-19 containment strategies and public healthcare system in Kerala which saw the first outbreak of the disease in the country. Speaking to journalists in an online interaction, Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar, chief of ICMR’s epidemiology and communicable diseases, said, “Kerala is offering one of the best containment strategies and it is unparalleled. So we will continue to refer to Kerala Model as far as testing and containment strategies are concerned.” As of May 15, the state had reported 587 Covid-19 positive cases, 87 of which were active.On May 11, Dr Amar Fettle, Kerala’s state nodal officer for Covid-19 explained Kerala’s preparedness and strategy during a video interview conducted from Pune. The interview, ‘Behind the Kerala model’ was conducted by Dr Arun Gadre, a gynaecologist and founder-member of Alliance of Doctors for Ethical Healthcare, on behalf of Vicharvedh, a forum for progressive thought in Maharashtra. A senior consultant paediatrician, Dr Fettle has worked on health emergencies in Kerala for the last nine years, including outbreaks and epidemics such as HIV, H1N1, bird flu and Nipah. Within two days, the Union government’s alert was received and the Kerala health authorities began gathering information from various national and international sources.Simultaneously, the state’s healthcare surveillance system was put on alert to look out for respiratory infection, fever, clustering and other symptoms or signals of Covid-19.He noted that the state health department’s control room that had been formed in 2009 to tackle the H1N1 epidemic had been functioning throughout the last 11 years and was once again activated. In the last 11 years, we have formed wonderful teams of district nodal officers and others in the 14 districts of Kerala. They are all young people wanting to do something out of the beaten track,” he said. On January 26, the Kerala Government published the country’s first comprehensive guidelines for coronavirus management. The state took early lead in alerting its airport and seaport health officers and in creating a system of screening, surveillance, transport to hospital and isolation centres at its four airports itself.The control room was expanded and 18 sub-divisons created to deal with procurement of medical equipment, surveillance, lab testing, documentation, media management, monitoring of rumour mongering on social media, infrastructure development, human resources development, recruitment, public media management and ambulance transportation.Dr Fettle said principal health secretary Dr Rajan Khobragade and the minister of health and family welfare KK Shailaja Teacher, along with the health secretary would sit with them in the control room to deal with the situation. The team prepared the worst-case scenarios and developed guidelines for each of them. He gave a detailed account of how the state dealt with India’s first case of Covid-19-- a student who had returned from China-- that was detected in Trichur district. A robust ‘Disha’ telephone helpline which handled more than one lakh calls, training for a total of 8.5 lakh people from all sectors, including the police, and 24x7 telephonic psychological counselling by more than 2,000 counsellors were part of the preparedness, he said. Effective contact tracing using innovative route maps, the wholehearted participation of the field public health staff and volunteers was very effective in handling the crisis. Two days before the national lockdown on March 24, Kerala had its own statewide curfew when food and rations was delivered for the elderly who were living aloneThe state also had effective home quarantine where only one person was allowed to stay at home and he was given moral support by the neighbours. We call our migrant labourers ‘Guest Workers’Dr Fettle said that Kerala calls its migrant labourers as ‘Guest Workers’ and not as ‘people from other states’ or ‘aliens’. “We have guest worker colonies and employment camps where they live and our guidelines and communication was translated into five-six languages such as Oriya, Bengali, Tamil and Telgu. Our language experts created these spoken and written guidelines which was available on social media and they also communicated with them.” They were provided with food and payment for loss of labour, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/our-control-room-for-epidemics-has-been-active-for-the-last-11-years/story-KDnEIr6pRXvYHRyv8zN4iI.html
24-05-2020||Pune||Do not invite the virus home: Kerala’s Covid-19 expert tells audience in Pune||Dr Amar Fettle, Kerala’s state nodal officer for Covid-19, has advised a series of precautionary steps for individuals and families in the post-lockdown phase when people start stepping out for work and other activities. A senior consultant paediatrician, Dr Fettle has worked on health emergencies in Kerala for the last nine years, including outbreaks and epidemics such as HIV, H1N1, bird flu and Nipah. He spoke at length during a recent video interview conducted from Pune on the highly acclaimed ‘Kerala Model’ through which the Covid-19 pandemic has been brought under control in Kerala. The interview, ‘Behind the Kerala model’ was conducted by Dr Arun Gadre, a gynaecologist and founder-member of Alliance of Doctors for Ethical Healthcare, on behalf of Vicharvedh, a forum for progressive thought in Maharashtra. During the one-hour interview which has been uploaded on YouTube, Dr Fettle urged the public not to underestimate the virus and suggested a series of simple steps and strategies to ensure that people and their families stayed free from the infection. Here are some of the key points from that interview:•Use masks when you step out of the house: When you step out of the house, imagine that pink and green viruses floating all over the place and on all kinds of surfaces- cars, shop counters. Keeping that in mind, always use a simple face mask. Remember that the virus will not come to your house on its own, unless you bring it. To avoid this hospitality, put on the mask every time you leave the house. Wash your hands with soap every time you leave the house and enter. Sanitise your hands every time you leave shops, banks, offices. Wash your hands again and again till you are bored…•Wash your feet after coming from outside- let’s return to the old Indian culture•Keep social distance in public places. If someone is not following it, tell them politely and in a friendly way; but don’t take the law into your own hands.•Take care of the elderly and those who have conditions like diabetes and keep them safe.•Teach children ‘cough hygiene’; the use of handkerchief and not spitting in public•Listen only to medical experts, scientists and obey the guidelines issued by the government and the local authority rather than following social media. •Maintain general health to build immunity and eat healthy foods; fruits and vegetables, leafy vegetables•Do not go to hospitals for small illnesses, but consult your doctor on the phone. •Ensure enough sleep and peace of mind. Do not monitor TV news for the latest on Covid-19 and get alarmed.•Be alert about your own safety; that of your family, your neighbour; your friends who are in contact with you and your helpers such as housemaids and driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/do-not-invite-the-virus-home-kerala-s-covid-19-expert-tells-audience-in-pune/story-lLnGTTRMNG9EEUSoMbtrDK.html
24-05-2020||City||Covid effect: No chhabeel stalls in Ludhiana this year||With mercury touching 42.6 degree Celsius in the city, something has stayed amiss for commuters braving the blistering summer wave — chhabeel, the chilled sweetened drink served at stalls by gurdwaras and social workers.Serving chhabeel along the roadside during summers is an age-old tradition associated with the fifth Sikh guru, Guru Arjan Dev. This year, the guru’s martrydom day will be observed on May 26, but it is for the first time that neither gurdwaras nor social workers are setting up chhabeel stalls, courtesy the fear of spread of coronavirus.Prithvipal Singh, 58, of Chander Nagar, is one of the many social workers had been setting up stalls of chhabeel every summer from mid-May to June-end for the past 40 years. “There used to be a huge rush of commuters at the stalls. Children travelling back home after school in buses, rickshaw-pullers and auto drivers used to have chilled water from the stalss to beat the heat. It is for the first time I will not be serving chhabeel to avoid the spread of the virus. Nothing is the same this year,” he said. For a rickshaw puller, Hari Om, 46, it is difficult to commute amid the sweltering heat. “Earlier, we used to get chhabeel stalls in every area but these days we cannot even find clean water to drink. I had filled a water bottle to carry with me this morning, but by afternoon, this water became too hot to drink. Some shopkeepers help by refilling the bottle, but some just insist on buying one, which I have to,” he said.CHANGING TIMESDue to coronavirus, the guru’s martyrdom day will not be observed the same way in gurdwaras like it used to be. Management committees of some gurdwaras in the city have decided not to serve langar.However, Inderjit Singh from the management committee of Gurdwara Singh Sabha, Model Town Extension, said that considering the safety of residents not more than 50 devotees will be allowed to sit in the prayer hall at a time. Proper social distancing will be followed, said Singh, adding that this year, no chhabeel will be served and langar will be distributed to the devotees in packets. However, Jaspal Singh Thukral from Gurdwara Singh Sabha, Sarabha Nagar, said they will serve chhabeel but only to the devotees visiting the gurdwara, but not in the open. “Further, the langar hall is being properly sanitised daily and volunteers (sewadars) are provided masks and gloves to prepare langar,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-effect-no-chhabeel-stalls-in-ludhiana-to-provide-reprieve-from-sweltering-heat/story-UgzQwszsJgJYF3qyPyWAgO.html
24-05-2020||Pune||Pune to get additional 2,000 beds from private hospitals for Covid patients||Following Maharashtra government’s order to take control of 80 per cent of total beds in the private hospitals, the number of beds for Covid-19 (coronavirus) patients in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad is likely to increase substantially that will help the civic administration deal with the growing number of patients.According to Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad, after the government decided to regulate 80 per cent beds in private hospitals, the capacity is likely to be increased by 2,000 in the city. In Pimpri-Chinchwad, at least 800 more beds are likely to be added, said a civic official from Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC).“The additional capacity of beds with ventilators and oxygen will help us fight against Covid-19 even if the number of patients grows at current pace till August,” said Gaikwad.It was on Friday that the state government decided to take charge of 80 per cent of total operational beds in private hospitals. The Pune district administration held a meeting in this regard on Saturday with private hospitals in which they were apprised about the decision.“Representatives from around 60 hospitals having more than 100 beds attended the meeting. During the meeting the hospital representatives raised some issues about which the administration has promised them to address,” said Deepak Mhaisekar, Pune divisional commissioner after the meeting.According to Mhaisekar, as per existing capacity, Pune currently has 8,982 beds of which 459 are ventilator beds, 1,736 are with oxygen supply and 860 with ICU facilities. In Pimpri-Chinchwad, there are around a total of 3,469 beds currently available.These additional beds from private hospitals, according to district collector Naval Kishore Ram, will be used for tertiary treatment. “They will boost our capacity further,” said Ram, who was part of the meeting Besides taking charge of 80 per cent hospitals, the government has capped treatment cost to lowest rates applicable while also invoking Maharashtra Essential Services Maintenance Act (Mesma). “For the rest of 20 per cent beds, hospitals will be free to apply their rates,” said Mhaisekar.Dist admin to expedite land acquisition process Amid lockdown, the Pune district administration has decided to expedite the land acquisition process for major projects in the city as well as district.According to district collector Naval Kishore Ram, he has asked all the concerned officials to resume the process of acquiring land for projects such as Metro rail, Bhama Askhed pipeline, Palkhi Marg road widening and other civic work in the city.“These are all important projects and directions have been given to officials to complete compensation disbursement and other aspects as early as possible,” said Ram on Saturday a day after his meeting with deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar when the latter took a review of various projects including Covid-related preparations in the district.According to a senior official, through expediting land acquisition, the administration wants to resume work to employ workers as lockdown had stalled most project making many jobless.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-to-get-additional-2-000-beds-from-private-hospitals-for-covid-patients/story-82COEilIHGAheWmnOvEOfO.html
24-05-2020||Pune||PMC estimates 22k positive cases by June end; stares at shortage of ICU beds, ventilators||Going by the current number of positive and active cases and the doubling rate of about 14 days, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has estimated about 22,940 progressive positive cases and at least 9,743 active cases in the city, according to a Covid-19 dashboard report prepared by the Smart City war room.The estimated projection also highlights that the civic body stares at a shortage of at least 216 ICU beds and 107 ventilators by the end of June. As of May 22, the city had 4,398 progressive positive cases out of which 1,786 are active cases admitted in various hospitals. According to experts, the gaping difference in the requirement of health infrastructure versus the increasing patients will add to the civic body’s troubles. As per the Covid-19 dashboard report prepared by the Smart City war room, the estimated projection is calculated on the assumption of average growth of 2.19 from the last seven days before May 21 wherein the doubling rate of positive cases is 14 days. The estimated number of cases is rising drastically putting pressure on the existing health infrastructure which has led the state government to take over about 80 per cent of the beds in charitable hospitals for Covid-19 patients. As per the report by May 28, the city will have 5,317 progressive positive cases, by June 3 this will rise to 6,963 cases, by June 17 cases will go up to 12, 896 and by June 30 this figure will rise to 22,940 progressive positive cases.Ramchandra Hankare, chief medical officer, PMC, said, “Going by the current rate, there may be a shortage of ventilators and ICU beds which are required for critical patients. Even though the progressive count may be over 22,000, but the active cases load would be around 9,700.”“We are in the process of taking over the beds at private hospitals as per the state government resolution (GR) for which we will have a meeting with the private hospitals. By taking over the beds at private hospitals we will not face scarcity of ventilators and ICU beds even if the cases reach those numbers,” he said. As of May 18, the civic body has 48 Covid-19 dedicated facilities which have 9,850 isolation beds, 3,539 isolation beds without O2, 2,122 isolation beds with O2, 271 ICU beds and 137 ventilators. For every one ventilator, the PMC has two ICU beds. Dr Abhijit More, public health expert said, “The state government’s order has come at the right time and so if the private hospitals cooperate well, this shortage can be managed very well.”“On the other hand, the PMC is now failing at managing non-Covid-19 patients and they are being ignored. A lot of their OPDs are shut and they are recruiting doctors for just 45 days and asking nurses to deposit a month’s pay. At the current situation anyone coming forward to work in the health sector is in itself a courageous thing to do,” said Dr More.“Even if PMC fills in its own vacant posts a lot of shortage of manpower will be fulfilled. Even in these times PMC’s largest hospital, Kamala Nehru hospital does not have a functioning ICU facility, which in itself is a serious issue,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-estimates-22k-positive-cases-by-june-end-stares-at-shortage-of-icu-beds-ventilators/story-UU3IQxVZNlIsc5Lo87RIIN.html
24-05-2020||City||Ludhiana veggie vendor’s murder solved with arrest of 2 addicts||Three days after a vegetable vendor was stabbed to death, police have arrested two of the accused. Their third accomplice, however, managed to flee.The accused, identified as Nitin Varma alias Nik of Durgapuri, Rohan Kumar Verma of Ranjodh Park of Haibowal Kalan, and Tarun Kumar alias Bumb of Jassiyan Colony of Haibowal, who is yet to be arrested, are addicts and took to crime to meet their need for drugs.On May 20, the trio had intercepted the victim, Ramu, 30, near Malhi filling station with an intention to rob him. When the victim resisted, the accused stabbed him in the chest, killing him on the spot. Following this, they took his purse and fled from the spot. “The accused are drug addicts and so desperate that they used to execute crime back to back for money. A day after murdering the vegetable vendor, the accused had also robbed a woman of Rs 5,000. On March 18, they had robbed a man of Rs 7,000 in Haibowal,” said Haibowal station house officer, inspector Mohan Lal.“The accused are already facing trial in at least six cases of snatching and hatching conspiracy of robbery,”he added.They have now been booked under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. Police have recovered the scooter used in the crime. They had earlier found the victim’s Aadhar card and curfew pass.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-veggie-vendor-s-murder-solved-with-arrest-of-2-addicts/story-ZtDcCcqGxsbeGQu8i9CjeJ.html
24-05-2020||Mumbai||15,000 school bus staffers staring at loss of jobs||With almost all schools moving to online classes due to the Covid-19 outbreak, nearly 15,000 school bus staffers across the city are staring at losing their jobs. In a statement released late on Friday, the School Bus Owners Association (SBOA) said it has no other option but to let go off the bus staff as bus owners are not being paid by schools and parents. “We are seeing really tough times with schools being shut for so many months. Schools have refused to pay bus owners saying that parents are not paying fees for buses as they are not using the bus service. This has left thousands of bus owners in a lurch as there is nothing we can do to retain our staff if the situation remains like this,” said Anil Garg, president of SBOA. In Mumbai and elsewhere in Maharashtra, schools have been shut since mid-March due to the Covid-19 pandemic. With schools affiliated to the CBSE and ICSE boards beginning their new academic year in April, many schools started their new sessions online and allowed parents to make partial payment of fees as per a government resolution mandating the same. Garg said the government needs to give some support to the bus owners and staff members to bring them out of this situation. “There are over 2 lakh people in the state who are dependent on these buses for their livelihoods. Many owners have taken loans to buy buses and haven’t been able to pay their loan instalments. The situation can be brought under some control if the government intervenes and gives some relief,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/15-000-school-bus-staffers-staring-at-loss-of-jobs/story-y334YUv2jf37cqTJ1y9yqK.html
24-05-2020||Pune||Amid misconceptions about Covid-19 spread through animals, owners abandon pets in Pune||Misconception that pet animals can transmit the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes Covid-19(coronavirus) infection, has led many owners to abandon them, said animal activists from the city. According to animal activists, foreign dog breeds like dobermans, labradors, German shepherds and golden retrievers have been seen roaming on the city streets without food and shelter. “We have rescued more than 20 foreign breed dogs from the streets during the lockdown period,” said Vineeta Tandon, co-founder and trustee, Animal Rescue Trust.“Recently in Sangvi, a nine-year-old golden retriever was found with a note around his neck where his (dog’s) details and our Trust’s number was written. The dog is currently with a girl who contacted us and now, we will bring the dog to the shelter,” added Tandon whose shelter is located in Manjri.The government had issued guidelines as dogs and cats do not transmit the virus, but still many people carry misconceptions, said activists.“Awareness is still required among people. At Manjri and Hinjewadi, Covid-19 awareness flexes suggest keeping dogs and cats at bay during this pandemic. I complained about these flexes to the people responsible and got the pictures of pets and the misinformation removed,” added Tandon.Animal Adoption and Rescue Team (AART) members, who have been patrolling the city streets, have also noticed a rise in the number of abandoned dogs in the last 60 days of the lockdown.According to Ajay Pujar, senior volunteer, Animal Adoption and Rescue Team, many foreign breed dogs were seen on the streets in the last two months which is not common. “Our volunteers are working in all the areas and once we get to know about such dogs, our van picks the dog and it is transferred to the shelter,” said Pujar.“Many students who have left for their hometowns due to the lockdown have abandoned their dogs so we are rescuing them as well,” added Pujar.Feed animalsAnimal welfare groups from the city – AART (Animal Adoption and Rescue Team) and DAWG (Deccan Animal Welfare Group) have appealed to residents to join in the cause of feeding street animals. One can contact 9673988890 for more details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/amid-misconceptions-about-covid-19-spread-through-animals-owners-abandon-pets-in-pune/story-adQlPubYS2OxwvpkV6dApK.html
24-05-2020||City||Graft case: Vigilance sleuths probe political links of HP’s director health services||Four days after Himachal Pradesh’s director of health services Dr Ajay Gupta was arrested in ₹5 lakh graft case, the Anti-Corruption and Vigilance Bureau is now investigating his political links, officials said on Saturday.His arrest on Wednesday night came following the surfacing of an audio in which he was purportedly heard seeking a bribe of ₹5 lakh. Searches were conducted in the office and residence of Ajay Gupta under the supervision of SP SIU Shalini Agnihotri and certain documents were seized pertaining to various purchases made by the health department. He has been placed under suspension by the state government.The vigilance sleuths on Friday identified the other person who was in conversation with Gupta in the audio clip. He is stated to be a supplier of medical products based in Chandigarh. The person hails from Renuka in the Sirmaur district and works as a frontman for medical equipment suppliers in Punjab.According to the officials, he is said to have political links that are also being probed by the vigilance sleuths. Reportedly the middleman had been in constant touch with the health officials and is said to be close to high profile political leaders.The person, according to the sleuths, has been identified as Prithi Singh who had made several calls to bureaucrats and the political leaders on the day vigilance sleuths arrested Gupta after his audio clip surfaced, said the officials.Gupta who was to superannuate from his post had constantly been trying to seek an extension of the service period. It is reliably learned that Gupta had even approached many leaders of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party and also visited its office in Deep Kamal to meet the top rung leadership a few days before his arrest. Vigilance sleuths found that Gupta also made several calls to BJP leaders snd officials working in the secretariat.The Vigilance Bureau also froze bank accounts of Gupta and his 19 relatives and seized several documents and ₹20,000 from his residence.Former Himachal CM demands fair probe into health dept scamVeteran BJP leader and former Union minister Shanta Kumar on Saturday sought a free and fair probe into the equipment purchase scam in the health department which surfaced recently, and a strict action against the culprits.In a press statement issued here, the 85-year-old leader said that at a time when the state was reeling under the Covid-19 crisis, a government officer indulged in corrupt practices to make quick bucks.“This is not only a crime but an enormous sin,” he said adding that such incidents make us hang our heads in shame.The two-term former chief minister said while a MNREGA labourer like Vidya Devi from Palampur donated her ₹5,000 savings for the fight against Covid-19, an officer stole the same money.“This is terrible and unforgivable,” said Shanta urging chief minister Jai Ram Thakur to constitute a joint probe panel of senior officers to investigate the matter and ensure strict punishment to the accused.He also urged the opposition not to politicise the matter stating that he firmly believed that the CM would ensure an action in this matter.The state vigilance and anti-corruption bureau has arrested former health department director Dr AK Gupta for graft and investigation in the case is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/graft-case-vigilance-sleuths-probe-political-links-of-hp-s-director-health-services/story-FLDYVqv1cQjHhX3C1EFKQO.html
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||No let-up in Chandigarh’s Bapu Dham Colony: 14 fresh infections surface||As many as 14 new cases of Covid-19) were reported from Chandigarh’s major hotspot Bapu Dham Colony on Saturday, taking city’s case count to 233. The 161 cases in the colony account for 69% of the city’s total cases. Despite the area being declared a containment zone over a month ago, there has been no respite from the cases, raising questions on measures taken by the administration to contain the pandemic. Even a report prepared by the community medicine department of PGIMER, Chandigarh, had questioned the administration’s methods in this regard.Of the 233 cases in the city, 179 people have been discharged so far, leaving 51 active cases.Those tested positive on Saturday include two males, aged 32 and 17, from one family, and a 24-year-old man, a family contact of a previous positive case.Three other persons from a family – two females, aged 38 and 36, and an 18-year-old boy – community contacts of a positive case, were also found infected.Five patients are from another family. They are three males aged 12, 13 and 17, and two females 35 and 15.Two males, aged 42 and 24, and a 14-year-old girl, are the other cases, also from a single family.Meanwhile, the health department collected 115 samples from the colony on Saturday.Neighbouring Mohali and Panchkula reported no cases.A two-month-old girl from Sector 25, was discharged from PGIMER on Saturday. With this, the hospital now has just four Covid patients.Neighbouring Mohali and Panchkula reported no cases. Of the 105 cases in Mohali district, 102 have been cured and discharged from hospitals, while three patients have succumbed to the virus. Therefore, there is no active case in the district now. Panchkula has had 25 positive cases, of which 23 have been cured. There is one active case, which is being treated at the civil hospital. Another patient, who was suffering from cancer, died shortly after testing negative, five days after she was found infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-new-covid-19-cases-surface-from-containment-zone-in-chandigarh/story-JdxJMoQSkuzJqmvtkctDrK.html
24-05-2020||Mumbai||MVA govt-Koshyari tussle on: Guv objects to recommendation to cancel final-year varsity exams||The tussle between governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MBA) government is likely to continue as Koshyari on Friday took strong objections to the the state’s recommendation to the University Grants Council (UGC) to cancel final year examinations of the students. State higher and technical education minister Uday Samant made the suggestion in view of the Covid-19 outbreak in Maharashtra.Koshyari has asked chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to resolve the issue of conducting final year examination of students of the universities in the state ‘without any further delay in the larger interest of students’.Samant, however, questioned the Governor’s demand, which he said came after the Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) — a student’s outfit linked to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) — supported holding examinations. “In Goa, ABVP demanded cancellation of examinations and in Maharashtra they want examinations to be held. What kind of politics is this?” Samant said.According to a press release issued by Raj Bhavan, Koshyari said the minister’s intervention was ‘unwarranted’ and has violated the UGC guidelines and also the relevant provisions of the Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016.“Not conducting final year examinations…amounts to breach of UGC guidelines,” Koshyari wrote in a letter to the chief minister. The governor has further said he was not apprised about the matter before the minister recommended the same to UGC.Koshyari said, “Students receiving degrees without undertaking examinations would have adverse impact on their higher studies, gradation and employability.” He also pointed out that the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has granted exemption from lockdown measures to state education boards as well as CBSE and ICSE boards to conduct Class 10 and 12 examinations. “I have not taken any decision in this regard. Only directives have been sought from UGC over cancellation of final year examination of universities. I have also opined in the letter that it would be better to cancel the examinations considering the rising Covid-19 cases. Being a minister, I can share my views with the UGC. What is wrong in it?” said Samant. There has been a tussle between the governor and the MVA government for a while now. Koshyari did not take any decision on the state Cabinet’s request to him to nominate Uddhav Thackeray as an MLC as it was necessary for a chief minister to get elected from either of the two Houses of the state legislature within six months to keep his chair. Before that, Koshyari also did not appoint NCP leaders — Shivajirao Garje and Aditi Nalawade — as members of the state legislative council despite recommendation from the chief minister in December last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mva-govt-koshyari-tussle-on-guv-objects-to-recommendation-to-cancel-final-year-varsity-exams/story-mdrArfct1IZvHKIqtoc23H.html
24-05-2020||World||China takeover of Hong Kong could lead to US sanctions, White House says||China’s proposed national security legislation for Hong Kong could lead to US sanctions and threaten the city’s status as a financial hub, White House National Security Adviser Robert O’Brien said on Sunday. “It looks like, with this national security law, they’re going to basically take over Hong Kong and if they do ... Secretary (of State Mike) Pompeo will likely be unable to certify that Hong Kong maintains a high degree of autonomy and if that happens there will be sanctions that will be imposed on Hong Kong and China,” O’Brien said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-takeover-of-hong-kong-could-lead-to-us-sanctions-white-house-says/story-ES03FRQTWFXwPthEu4jrcO.html
24-05-2020||World||Boris Johnson to lead coronavirus news conference as adviser’s future hangs in balance||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will lead the daily coronavirus news conference on Sunday as the future of his senior adviser Dominic Cummings, who is under pressure over a journey made during the lockdown, hangs in the balance.The news conference will take place at 17:00 BST (16:00 GMT), Johnson’s Downing Street office said.The prime minister last appeared at the daily briefing, which more often sees a minister face questions, on May 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boris-johnson-to-lead-coronavirus-news-conference-as-adviser-s-future-hangs-in-balance/story-8CQyoMh57mqNJjfEpRh24I.html
24-05-2020||World||Americans soak up sun on beaches as coronavirus death toll nears 100,000||Americans sunbathed on beaches, fished from boats and strolled on boardwalks this holiday weekend, but the occasional person wearing a mask was a constant reminder that the world is still battling the coronavirus pandemic.The Memorial Day weekend that signals the start of the U.S. summer is normally a time when cemeteries across the nation fill with American flags and ceremonies to remember those who died in U.S. wars. This year the holiday week is when the U.S. death from COVID-19 is expected to exceed 100,000.The New York Times filled its entire front page with the names and selected details of 1,000 victims on Sunday to try to capture the humanity of the lives lost.“We were trying to capture that personal toll,” Marc Lacey, the newspaper’s national editor, told Reuters. “We were trying to humanize these numbers which keep growing and have reached such unfathomable heights that they’re really hard to grasp any more. ...This is about everyday people. It’s about a death toll, reaching a number that’s really just jaw-dropping.” Among the names, drawn from obituaries and death notices in hundreds of U.S. newspapers: Lila Fenwick, 87, the first black woman to graduate from Harvard Law; Romi Cohn, 91, saved 56 Jewish families from the Gestapo; Hailey Herrera, 25, budding therapist with a gift for empathy.All 50 states have relaxed coronavirus restrictions to some degree. In some states, like Illinois and New York, restaurants are still closed to in-person dining and hair salons remain shuttered. In many southern states, most businesses are open, with restrictions on capacity. Last week, 11 states reported a record number of new COVID-19 cases, including Alabama, Arkansas, Minnesota, North Dakota, New Hampshire, Maryland, Maine, Nevada, Utah, Virginia and Wisconsin, according to a Reuters tally. It is not clear if the cases are rising from more testing or a second wave of infections. Total U.S. cases are over 1.6 million, the highest in the world.A plea by health officials and many state governors to wear masks in stores and in public is being met with protest and resistance from some Americans. Social media is filled with videos of businesses turning away a few angry customers who refuse to cover their mouths and noses. “We need to be wearing masks in public when we cannot social distance. It’s really critically important we have the scientific evidence of how important mask-wearing is to prevent those droplets from reaching others,” Dr. Deborah Birx, response coordinator for the White House coronavirus task force, said on “Fox News Sunday.”Few people wore masks on Saturday while walking on a crowded boardwalk in Ocean City, Maryland. Masks were also a rare sight on other beaches, but people mainly kept their distance in small groups and avoided playing games like Frisbee and volleyball.“Personally, I’m not sure I’m worried about that, but for those who are worried ... I suggest they stay home. I like to get out,” said Bruce Clark at Daytona Beach in Florida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/americans-soak-up-sun-on-beaches-as-coronavirus-death-toll-nears-100-000/story-6vZiVNnS8nbdasatadFYPL.html
24-05-2020||World||PM Boris resists calls to sack top aide after new claims emerge||Intense pressure mounted on Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Sunday after new details emerged of his chief adviser Dominic Cummings breaching lockdown norms, with ruling party MPs, opposition leaders and tens of thousands of Britons demanding his resignation.Cummings, who has been a pivotal if controversial figure since the Vote Leave campaign spearheaded by Johnson before the 2016 EU referendum, is considered a driving force behind the prime minster in plans on Brexit and the coronavirus pandemic.Transport secretary Grant Shapps faced a tough time on Sunday television on BBC and Sky as he tried to defend Cummings, who travelled over 250 miles to Durham in end-March after he and his wife showed symptoms of the virus – breaching official advice to ‘stay home’.One rule for the people and another for those in power, Labour leaders and other protested, as some cabinet ministers – including chancellor Rushi Sunak – defended Cummings’ actions. Several ruling Conservative MPs broke ranks on Sunday to call for his resignation.A petition titled ‘Dominic Cummings must be sacked’ quickly gathered over 61,000 signatures.MPs across the political spectrum said their email inboxes were full of messages from angry people that they have been following official advice and depriving themselves of meeting close family members, even when they were dying, but Cummings felt entitled to break the ‘instructions’.Steve Baker, Conservative MP and a leading pro-Bexiteer, said: “Dominic Cummings must go before he does any more harm to the UK, the government, the prime minister, our institutions or the Conservative party”.“Today’s newspapers are a disaster. Enormous political capital is being expended saving someone who has boasted of making decisions beyond his competence and who clearly broke at the very least the guidance which kept mums and dads at home, without childcare from their parents, and instead risked spreading the virus by travelling”.“It is intolerable that Boris, Boris’s government and Boris’s programme should be harmed in this way”.Bakers remarks were backed by several party MPs, such as Caroline Nokes, who tweeted: “There cannot be one rule for most of us and wriggle room for others. My inbox is rammed with very angry constituents and I do not blame them. They have made difficult sacrifices over the course of the last nine weeks”.The prime minister’s spokesperson defended Cummings twice on Saturday, but Shapps denied new reports that Cummings travelled again to Durham after returning to London in mid-April, and was allegedly spotted in other places near Durham.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pm-boris-resists-calls-to-sack-top-aide-after-new-claims-emerge/story-NnPmqr8l1NmgqEUMr5FDEL.html
24-05-2020||World||‘Technical glitch or pilot’s error?’: Preliminary report of PIA plane crash raises doubts||A preliminary report on the Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) plane crash, in which 97 people were killed, has raised serious questions about the pilot’s handling of the aircraft and what prevented the crew in the cockpit from informing the air traffic controllers about the troubles. Pakistani investigators are trying to find out if the crash of the national flag carrier’s flight PK-8303 is attributable to a pilot error or a technical glitch, with new leads raising fresh questions over the circumstances of the incident, Geo News reported. According to the report, prepared by the country’s Civil Aviation Authority (CAA), the Airbus A-320’s engines had scraped the runway thrice on the pilot’s first attempt to land, causing friction and sparks recorded by the experts. After the third impact, the pilot took the aircraft off into the air again, which officials found very strange as the crew in the cockpit did not inform the Air Traffic Control (ATC) at the Jinnah International Airport of any problem with the landing gear, The News International quoted CAA sources as saying. Since automated emergency systems within the aircraft go off in case of any emergency, and the loud alarms and warnings are impossible to ignore, there was no indication from the pilot to the ATC that something was amiss, it said. When the aircraft scraped the ground on the first failed attempt at landing, the engine’s oil tank and fuel pump may have been damaged and started to leak, preventing the pilot from achieving the required thrust and speed to raise the aircraft to safety, the report said. The pilot made a decision “on his own” to undertake a “go-around” after he failed to land the first time. It was only during the go-around that the ATC was informed that landing gear was not deploying, it said. “The pilot was directed by the air traffic controller to take the aircraft to 3,000 feet, but he managed only 1,800. When the cockpit was reminded to go for the 3,000 feet level, the first officer said ‘we are trying’,” the report said. Experts said that the failure to achieve the directed height indicates that the engines were not responding. The aircraft, thereafter, tilted and crashed suddenly. “The plane descended too fast, almost plunged,” sources familiar with the report said. The investigators were trying to establish why the pilots not once informed the ATC of any emergency, malfunction, engine failure or fire despite the visible problems the aircraft was facing, the report said, adding that it is rare to have so many technical problems at the same time. The ATC’s conduct is also being probed. The report added that at this point, there are more questions than answers with the most serious being why and how the alarm systems inside the cockpit failed to warn the pilots of an impending emergency. PIA chief executive officer Arshad Malik has said that the black box of the plane has been handed over to the investigation team. The team, headed by Air Commodore Muhammad Usman Ghani, President of the Aircraft Accident and Investigation Board, is expected to submit a full report in about three months. According to the PIA’s engineering and maintenance department, the last check of the plane was done on March 21 this year and it had flown from Muscat to Lahore a day before the crash. In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Pakistan government had allowed the limited domestic flight operations from five major airports — Islamabad, Karachi, Lahore, Peshawar and Quetta — from May 16. After the plane tragedy, the PIA has called off its domestic operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-crash-technical-glitch-or-pilot-s-error-preliminary-report-of-pia-raises-new-questions/story-LAGDyXAQrFDcuyozQ8O7mI.html
24-05-2020||World||China’s Wang Yi warns against foreign interference in Hong Kong||Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Sunday defended Beijing’s move to bring about a controversial new security law to firm up its control over Hong Kong and said that the excessive unlawful “foreign meddling” in the former British colony has placed China’s national security in serious jeopardy.Warning against any foreign interference in Hong Kong amid strong statement by US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo who called the new law “a death knell” to city’s freedom, Wang said Hong Kong affairs are China’s internal matter , and “no external interference will be tolerated.” Noting that excessive unlawful foreign meddling in Hong Kong affairs has placed China’s national security in serious jeopardy, Wang said that establishing and improving the legal system and enforcement mechanisms for the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) to safeguard national security has become a pressing priority, and must be done without the slightest delay.A draft bill on establishing and improving the legal system and enforcement mechanisms for the HKSAR to safeguard national security was tabled in the National People’s Congress (NPC) on Friday. It is expected to be passed on May 28.The bill is regarded as a political bombshell for the former British colony as China has decided to bypass the local Legislative Council to bring about a new national security law tailor-made to take control of Hong Kong which has been witnessing mass protests by pro-democracy groups since last year demanding autonomy and freedom from Beijing.As Wang addressed his annual press conference in Beijing, protests gripped Hong Kong on Sunday.Hong Kong police fired multiple rounds of tear gas and used a water cannon in the Causeway Bay shopping district on Sunday as thousands took to the streets to protest against China’s planned national security law, Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post reported.The protestors have denounced the proposed legislation as a threat to civil liberties and the end of the “one country, two systems” principle.Wang said the draft decision targets a narrow category of acts that seriously jeopardize national security.“It does not affect the high degree of autonomy in Hong Kong. It does not affect the rights and freedoms enjoyed by Hong Kong residents. And it does not affect the legitimate rights and interests of foreign investors in Hong Kong,” Wang said. The central government is responsible for upholding national security, which is the same in any country, he said.The central government holds the primary and ultimate responsibility for national security in all sub-national administrative regions, which is the basic theory and principle underpinning national sovereignty and common practice in countries around the globe, he said.The adoption of the decision will start a legislative procedure, which will improve Hong Kong’s legal system, and bring more stability, stronger rule of law, and a better business environment to Hong Kong, Wang said, adding that the basic principle of “one country, two systems” and Hong Kong’s position as a global financial, trading and shipping centre will be protected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-s-wang-yi-warns-against-foreign-interference-in-hong-kong/story-QU0nQ9iuOoTTqu9br7C7EI.html
24-05-2020||World||Wuhan lab head calls coronavirus leak claims ‘pure fabrication’||Claims promoted by the Trump administration that the global coronavirus pandemic originated at the Wuhan Institute of Virology in the central Chinese city are a “pure fabrication,” the institute’s director said.Wang Yanyi was quoted by state media on Sunday as saying the institute did not have “any knowledge before that nor had we ever met, researched or kept the virus...We didn’t even know about the existence of the virus, so how could it be leaked from our lab when we didn’t have it?” President Donald Trump and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo have repeatedly said they suspect the virus that was first detected in Wuhan was somehow released from the laboratory.Most scientists say the pathogen that has infected 5.3 million and killed more than 342,000, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University, was passed from bats to humans via an intermediary species likely sold at a wet market in Wuhan late last year.The virus’ toll continued to ebb in Asia and other parts of the world, with China on Sunday reporting three new confirmed cases and just 79 people remaining in treatment for COVID-19.The New York Times devoted Sunday’s entire front page to a long list of names of people who have died in the pandemic.The names and brief descriptions culled from obituaries from around the country fill six columns under the headline “U.S. Deaths Near 100,000, an Incalculable Loss.” “They Were Not Simply Names on a List. They Were Us,” read the subheadline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wuhan-lab-head-calls-coronavirus-leak-claims-pure-fabrication/story-2xvkTkuPBIfzZjs38aRz1I.html
24-05-2020||World||Muslims celebrate major holiday amid curfews, coronavirus fears||Muslims around the world on Sunday began celebrating Eid al-Fitr, a normally festive holiday marking the end of the fasting month of Ramzan, with millions under strict stay-at-home orders and many fearing renewed coronavirus outbreaks.The three-day holiday is usually a time of travel, family get-togethers and lavish daytime feasts after weeks of dawn-to-dusk fasting. But this year many of the world’s 1.8 billion Muslims will have to pray at home and make due with video calls.Some countries, including Turkey, Iraq and Jordan, have imposed round-the-clock holiday curfews. But even where many restrictions have been lifted, celebrations will be subdued because of fears of the pandemic and its economic fallout.Saudi Arabia, home to the holy cities of Mecca and Medina, is under a complete lockdown, with residents only permitted to leave their homes to purchase food and medicine.In Jerusalem, Israeli police said they broke up an “illegal demonstration” and arrested two people outside the Al-Aqsa mosque, which Muslim authorities have closed for prayers since mid-March and will not reopen until after the holiday. Worshippers who tried to enter the compound scuffled with the police.Al-Aqsa is the third holiest site in Islam and would ordinarily welcome tens of thousands of worshippers during the Eid. The hilltop compound is also the holiest site for Jews, who know it as the Temple Mount. The site has long been a flashpoint in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.Iran, which is battling the deadliest outbreak in the Middle East, allowed communal prayers at some mosques but cancelled the annual mass Eid prayers in Tehran led by Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. Iran has reported over 130,000 cases and more than 7,000 deaths.In Dubai, the skyscraper-studded commercial hub in the UAE, authorities set up barricades and police checkpoints around an industrial area housing foreign labourers. The Emirates is trying to reopen its hard-hit economy, but cases continue to rise. The UAE has reported over 28,000 confirmed cases and 244 deaths.Indonesia, the world’s largest Muslim-majority nation, has reported nearly 22,000 infections and 1,350 fatalities, the most in Southeast Asia. Lockdown orders intended to contain the pandemic mean there will be no congregational prayers at mosques or even open fields, no family reunions, no relatives bearing gifts for children.In neighbouring Muslim-majority Malaysia, businesses have mostly reopened after weeks of lockdown. But mass gatherings are still banned and people are not allowed to travel back to their hometowns for the holiday. Police have turned away more than 5,000 cars and have warned of strict penalties for those who try to sneak home.Malaysians are only allowed to visit relatives who live nearby, and only on Sunday, with gatherings limited to 20 people. Mosques have reopened but are limited to small congregations of up to 30. Malaysia has reported 7,185 infections and 115 deaths.In Pakistan, Eid is being celebrated in the shadow of the coronavirus and in the wake of a passenger plane crash near Karachi on Friday that killed 97 people.For the first time, Pakistan is celebrating Eid countrywide on the same day, ending an annual controversy between rival committees over the moon sighting that signals the start of the holiday.Pakistan has taken measures to control the spread of the coronavirus since mid-March, but Prime Minister Imran Khan refused to close mosques during Ramzan despite pleas from doctors and a rising number of infections. Pakistan has reported more than 52,000 cases and more than 1,100 deaths.More than 1,000 worshippers gathered and prayed shoulder-to-shoulder in an open field in Karachi on Sunday, with only a few of them wearing masks.In neighbouring Afghanistan, the government and Taliban insurgents announced a three-day cease-fire in honor of the holiday.Some 2,000 Muslims gathered for Eid al-Fitr prayers Sunday at a sports complex in the Paris suburb of Levallois-Perret, carefully spaced apart and wearing masks, according to France-Info radio. Traditional embraces were not allowed.France is allowing religious services to resume for the first time since March, but France’s leading Muslim organization, CFCM, advised mosques to stay closed Sunday. The CFCM said the government decree didn’t give mosques enough time to procure masks and hand gel to ensure that gatherings don’t turn into super-spreading events.Virus restrictions remain in place in the mostly-Muslim Balkan countries of Albania, Bosnia-Herzegovina and Kosovo. In the Bosnian capital, Sarajevo, mosques reopened on May 6 after seven weeks of lockdown. Worshippers must wear masks and practice social distancing, and older individuals were urged to continue praying at home.Naim Ternava, the mufti of Kosovo’s Islamic community, led prayers in a mosque in front of a small group of imams sitting 1.5 metres (yards) apart, with the sermon broadcast outside on loudspeakers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/muslims-celebrate-major-holiday-amid-curfews-coronavirus-fears/story-WvEvNkeDBAyik1dhb8f1VL.html
24-05-2020||World||Hitler’s rumoured alligator dies in Moscow||An alligator that many people believe once belonged to Adolf Hitler has died in the Moscow Zoo.The zoo said the alligator, named Saturn, was about 84 years old when died on Friday.According to the zoo, Saturn was born in the United States and later sent to the Berlin Zoo, from which he escaped when the zoo was bombed in 1943. His whereabouts were unknown until 1946, when British soldiers found him and gave him to the Soviet Union, the zoo said.“Almost immediately, the myth was born that he was allegedly in the collection of Hitler and not in the Berlin Zoo,” the zoo said in a statement.But, it noted, “animals are not involved in war and politics and it is absurd to blame them for human sins.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hitler-s-rumoured-alligator-dies-in-moscow/story-eLgdazlllfMleT0yyOdx3N.html
24-05-2020||World||Benjamin Netanyahu heads to court as first sitting Israeli PM on trial||Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was heading to court Sunday to face corruption charges in the first criminal trial ever against a sitting Israeli leader.Netanyahu is set to appear at the opening hearing at a Jerusalem district court, after his request to have his lawyers represent him instead was rejected. The courthouse was drawing crowds of supporters, protesters and media hoping to witness Netanyahu enter the building, where he will hear the arraignment against him.The dramatic scene comes just days after the long-serving leader swore in his new government, breaking more than a year of political stalemate following three inconclusive elections.Netanyahu held his first Cabinet meeting with the new government just hours before heading to court. Neither he nor any of his ministers addressed the looming trial but the country’s outgoing religious affairs minister wished Netanyahu that “God will bring the truth out” at his trial.Netanyahu faces charges of fraud, breach of trust, and accepting bribes in a series of corruption cases stemming from ties to wealthy friends. He is accused of accepting lavish gifts and offering to grant favors to powerful media moguls in exchange for favorable coverage of him and his family. He denies the charges and has lashed out at the media, police, prosecution and courts of forging a conspiracy to oust him. It comes after years of scandals swirling around the family.Netanyahu and his allies have spent months lashing out the country’s law enforcement system, and the charges against him have deeply divided the nation.Ahead of the trial, two sets of protests and counter-protests gathered outside the courthouse and the prime minister’s official residence in Jerusalem. Netanyahu supporters outside the District Court in east Jerusalem wore masks with the prime minister’s face and held posters lambasting the attorney general who indicted him. Anti-Netanyahu demonstrators outside his residence blew trumpets and held a banner calling the longtime leader “crime minister.”Several of Netanyahu’s Likud party ministers, including the newly appointed internal security minister who overseas the police, said they would arrive to back him.Opposition leader Yair Lapid accused them of fomenting violence and trying to intimidate the judges. “Netanyahu is trying to drag us into a civil war to save himself from trial,” he told the YNet website.Netanyahu’s court appearance Sunday caps a three-year investigation. It also comes after more than a year of political turmoil, with three inconclusive elections — each seen as a referendum on Netanyahu — finally ending last month when the Israeli leader and his main rival, former army chief Benny Gantz, came to a power-sharing deal.As part of their power-sharing deal, Netanyahu will remain prime minister for the next 18 months, and alternative prime minister for the 18 months after, and will not be legally required to step down during what is expected to be a lengthy trial.Netanyahu’s proceedings were supposed to begin in March, but were delayed by his justice minister who issued restrictions on the courts amid the coronavirus crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/benjamin-netanyahu-heads-to-court-as-1st-sitting-israeli-pm-on-trial/story-EUFucdJvB8gLPOLj0OmyaJ.html
24-05-2020||World||Hong Kong police fire tear gas, water cannon at protesters||Hong Kong police fired tear gas and a water cannon at protesters in a popular shopping district on Sunday, as thousands took to the streets to march against China’s proposed tough national security legislation for the city.Pro-democracy supporters in Hong Kong have sharply criticised the proposal last week to enact a national security law that would ban secessionist and subversive activity, as well as foreign interference, in the semi-autonomous Chinese territory. Critics say it goes against the “one country, two systems” framework that promises the city freedoms not found in mainland China.Crowds of demonstrators dressed in black gathered Sunday afternoon in Hong Kong’s Causeway Bay district to protest the proposed legislation. Protesters chanted slogans including “Stand with Hong Kong,” “Liberate Hong Kong” and “Revolution of our times.” The protest was a continuation of a monthslong pro-democracy movement in Hong Kong that began last year and has at times descended into violence between police and protesters.Police raised blue flags, warning protesters to disperse, before firing multiple rounds of tear gas. They later fired a water cannon at the protesters.At least 120 people were arrested, mostly on charges of unlawful assembly, police said in a Facebook post.They also said in a separate post that protesters threw bricks and splashed unidentified liquid at officers, injuring at least four members of the police’s media liaison team. They warned that such behavior is against the law and that police would pursue the matter.Earlier in the afternoon, prominent activist Tam Tak-chi was arrested during the protest for what police said was unauthorized assembly. Tam said he was giving a “health talk” and was exempt from social-distancing measures that prohibit gatherings of more than eight people.The bill that triggered Sunday’s rally was submitted at China’s national legislative session on Friday and is expected to be passed on May 28. It would bypass Hong Kong’s legislature and allow the city’s government to set up mainland agencies in the city that would make it possible for Chinese agents to arbitrarily arrest people for activities deemed to be pro-democracy.US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has called the move “a death knell for the high degree of autonomy” that Beijing promised the former British colony when it was returned to China in 1997.The erosion of Hong Kong’s freedoms prompted Chris Patten, the last British governor of Hong Kong prior to its handover to China, to condemn what he called “a new Chinese dictatorship.” “I think the Hong Kong people have been betrayed by China, which has proved once again that you can’t trust it further than you can throw it,” Patten said in an interview with The Times of London.Bernard Chan, a top-level Hong Kong politician and delegate to the National People’s Congress in Beijing, defended the national security legislation pushed by China, saying it was written into Hong Kong’s Basic Law — the city’s mini-constitution — but never enacted.Chan expressed concern that Hong Kong would inevitably face economic hardship given trade frictions between the US and China.“I think we are definitely the collateral damage being dragged into this thing. But then, I don’t think there’s any alternatives,” Chan said.“But with or without this law, honestly, the US and China are always going to be continuing this loggerhead for quite some time to come,” he said. “China will remain as a threat to the US in terms of the...world economic dominance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-police-fire-tear-gas-water-cannon-at-protesters/story-EiQCllrP7sUNOWc49dSYMI.html
24-05-2020||World||China’s foreign minister says coronavirus lawsuits ‘illegal’||Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Sunday said any lawsuits brought against China over the Covid-19 have “zero factual basis in law or international precedence”. Wang told reporters at a news conference that China was a victim of the global pandemic alongside other countries and had reached out to assist other governments in need.“To our regret, in addition to the raging of the new coronavirus, a political virus is also spreading in the US which is to take every chance to attack and discredit China,” Wang said.“Some US politicians, heedless of basic facts, have fabricated too many lies and plotted too many conspiracies,” Wang said.Raising such lawsuits “tramples on the international rule of law and abandons the human conscience. It’s untrue, unjustifiable and illegal,” Wang said.Those who would bring such litigation against China are “living in a daydream and will humiliate themselves,” Wang said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-s-foreign-minister-says-coronavirus-lawsuits-illegal/story-uBJagXKoYgggkNMJsoB2rJ.html
24-05-2020||World||China warns US, says being pushed to ‘brink of new Cold War’; rejects ‘lies’ on coronavirus||The United States is pushing relations with China to “the brink of a new Cold War”, China’s foreign minster said Sunday, rejecting US “lies” over the coronavirus while saying Beijing was open to an international effort to find its source.Keeping up the worsening war of words with Washington over the pandemic and a Beijing move to tighten control over Hong Kong, Wang Yi said the United States had been infected by a “political virus” compelling figures there to continually attack China.“It has come to our attention that some political forces in the US are taking China-US relations hostage and pushing our two countries to the brink of a new Cold War,” Wang told reporters during a press conference at China’s week-long annual parliamentary session.Longstanding friction between the two powers over trade, human rights and a range of other issues have been pushed to new heights since the virus outbreak.Wang did not identify what “forces” he was referring to, but US President Donald Trump has led world criticism of China’s initial response to the pandemic, which has caused more than 340,000 deaths and economic carnage worldwide.Trump and members of his administration have said China covered up the emergence of the virus late last year and bungled its initial response.Washington’s criticism has been widely seen in the United States as an attempt by Trump to divert attention from the White House’s own COVID-19 failures.Wang took an apparent swipe at the US struggles to contain the virus, which has now infected more people in the United States than anywhere else.“I call on the US to stop wasting time and stop wasting precious lives,” Wang said.He said China was “open” to international cooperation to identify the source of the novel coronavirus, but stressed that any investigation must be “free of political interference”.- ‘Stigmatising China’ -“Some political figures in the US rush to label the virus and politicise its origins, stigmatising China,” Wang said.Most scientists believe the virus jumped from animals to humans after emerging in China, possibly from a market in the central city of Wuhan where exotic animals were sold for meat.Governments including the US and Australia have called in recent weeks for an investigation into the exact origins of the virus.The World Health Organization has also called on Beijing to invite them in to investigate the source, with China proposing instead that the “global response” to COVID-19 should only be assessed when the pandemic is over.WHO members on Tuesday adopted a resolution, tabled by the European Union, at the UN body’s first virtual assembly to review the international handling of the pandemic, but it does not single out China.Wang said an investigation must “oppose any presumption of guilt”.“Aside from the devastation caused by the novel coronavirus, there is also a political virus spreading through the US,” he said.“This political virus is the use of every opportunity to attack and smear China. Some politicians completely disregard basic facts and have fabricated too many lies targeting China, and plotted too many conspiracies.”The introduction at China’s legislature on Friday of a proposal to impose a security law in Hong Kong to suppress the semi-autonomous city’s pro-democracy movement also has drawn US and world condemnation.But Wang defended the plan, saying it must be implemented “without the slightest delay”, adding that months of often-violent Hong Kong protests last year against China’s growing influence in the financial hub had “seriously endangered China’s national security”.bur-dma/amj||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-warns-us-says-being-pushed-to-brink-of-new-cold-war-rejects-lies-on-coronavirus/story-qtGjFQmDtZibajzrUuPTNO.html
24-05-2020||World||Oxford’s Covid-19 vaccine trial has 50% chance of success: Project leader||The University of Oxford’s Covid-19 vaccine trial has only a 50% chance of success as the coronavirus seems to be fading rapidly in Britain, the professor co-leading the development of the vaccine has said.Oxford’s Jenner Institute has tied up with biopharma major AstraZeneca Plc to produce the vaccine on a mass scale if the results are successful.The experimental vaccine, known as ChAdOx1 nCoV-19, is one of the front-runners in the global race to provide protection against the new coronavirus causing the coronavirus pandemic.The upcoming trial, involving 10,000 volunteers, threatened to return “no result” due to low transmission of Covid-19 in the community, Adrian Hill, director of the Jenner Institute, said.“It’s a race against the virus disappearing, and against time. At the moment, there’s a 50% chance that we get no result at all,” Hill said while speaking to the British newspaper, the Telegraph.Hill’s team began early-stage human trials of the vaccine in April, making it one of a handful to have reached that milestone.Earlier this week, the developers of the vaccine had described their efforts as progressing “very well”, moving to the next phase after completing 1,000 immunisations by its candidate-vaccine on healthy human adults.The next phase, the second in the typical three phases of trials that a vaccine goes through, involves enrolling up to 10,260 adults and children to assess the immune response to the vaccine in people of different ages and assess if there is a variation.The Oxford study is merging Phases II and III for speedier development. Phase III involves assessing how the vaccine works in a large number of people over the age of 18, and how well it prevents people from becoming infected and unwell with Covid-19.Adult participants in both the Phase II and Phase III groups will be randomised to receive one or two doses of either the ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 vaccine or a licensed vaccine (MenACWY) that will be used as a “control” for comparison.The experts said ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 is made from a virus (ChAdOx1), which is a weakened version of a common cold virus (adenovirus) that causes infections in chimpanzees, that has been genetically changed so that it is impossible for it to replicate in humans.Results of the animal trials of the vaccine on pre-print server bioRxiv had said that while the vaccine seemed to protect the monkeys from developing pneumonia, one of the conditions brought about by Covid-19 in people, it does not appear to stop them from being infected, nor prevent them from being transmitters.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/oxford-s-covid-19-vaccine-trial-has-50-chance-of-success-project-leader/story-q3fJfqYKDszlDd7qS4XjZP.html
24-05-2020||World||PIA aircraft hit runway, took off again before crashing: Report||It was supposed to be another regular flight on one of Pakistan’s busiest domestic routes between its two biggest cities.State-run Pakistan International Airlines Corp.’s PK 8303 flight had a normal departure from the eastern city of Lahore. Close to landing before 2:45 p.m. local time, the pilots told passengers to fasten their seat-belts as it approached Karachi’s airport in a flight that usually takes less than two hours. Everything was fine -- until the last few seconds.The plane began its descent. Instead of gliding on the runway, it hit the ground a few times -- for about 20 to 30 seconds -- before the pilots pulled the plane back up into the air again. It reached a maximum altitude of 3,175 feet about two minutes later, based on data by FWIW, the Flightradar24 website that tracks aircraft.The pilots added power and lifted off again, a manoeuvre known as a go-around. While a witness estimated it was aloft for 10 to 15 minutes longer, Flightradar24 data indicates it was nearing the ground 5 1/2 minutes later.It’s in that window that the pilots announced a second attempt to land. Calls for help were heard at the airport control tower.“Sir, we have lost engines,” the pilot said to a controller, according to a recording from LiveATC.net, which collects audio feeds from air-traffic staff. About 30 seconds later, the pilot again radioed a distress call: “Mayday. Mayday. Mayday.”On the last recorded position captured by a Flightradar24 ground station, the Airbus SE A320 jet was at an altitude of about 500 feet and descending.The plane, carrying 99 people, eventually smashed through rooftops of houses before finally crashing into a narrow lane of the residential area miles away from the airport that the runway was possibly in sight.“After the crash, there was fire everywhere, you could not see anyone,” said Muhammad Zubair, a survivor from the plane crash that killed 97 people. “I opened my seatbelt, and headed towards the light.”Zubair recounted the final moments before the accident to a local television channel. He was seated in the eighth row while the only other survivor, Zafar Masud, who’s the president of Bank of Punjab Ltd., was seated in the first row, various local news outlets said.Confusing CallsRescue workers entered the homes, recovered bodies from rooftops and also the crash site as smoke gathered in the area. Some bodies recovered had oxygen masks on, indicating that an emergency had been declared while the plane was in the air, according to rescue agency Edhi, Pakistan’s largest ambulance service.Edhi was first alerted by eyewitnesses, and said more people may have survived if it got the call to be on standby the minute the aircraft reported a problem, a practice that was followed in the past.“We were confused when people from the area called us,” Ahmed Edhi, a spokesman for the rescue agency, said by phone. “If they told us beforehand, many of our ambulances would have reached close to the airport before the crash.”The crash spread chaos and panic throughout the city that had already seen its health-care system chocked up by the coronavirus outbreak.Few TV channels initially offered hope about survivors, which led Usama Qureshi and a few friends to be on the road for eight hours until midnight, going from hospital to another. They waited along the footpaths of the main hospital as one ambulance after another brought bodies from the crash site, hoping to find the more than half a dozen people they knew who were on the flight.‘Painful to See’The first few bodies brought in from the crash site could be identified by families. “But after 15 to 20 ambulances, the condition got worse, it became very painful to see,” Qureshi said in an interview by phone. “I could not see anymore and thought I would just faint.”The mortuary at the hospital was at full capacity, and about a dozen ambulances with bodies from the crash were lined up outside, said Qureshi, co-founder of an engineering company Bolts Pvt.Among the people he was looking for was his friend Zain Polani, a banker who was on the flight with his wife and kids. He was also looking for the family of his former colleague.Some of the bodies have still not been identified a day and a half after the crash. That’s a pain point for families emotionally as it’s a common practice to hold final funeral prayers within hours or a day of death in Pakistan.“The families who have lost lives want to know what happened,” Pakistan’s Aviation Minister Ghulam Sarwar Khan said in a Karachi press briefing on Saturday. “We will make the report public as soon as soon as possible.”Pakistan has set up a four-member panel, which will submit its report on the disaster in three months, Khan said in a televised briefing.Pakistani authorities have found the flight data recorder of the airliner that crashed into the residential neighborhood but the search for the cockpit voice recorder is ongoing, Abdul Sattar Khokhar, a spokesman for the nation’s Civil Aviation Authority, said by phone. Airbus said it was providing technical assistance to France’s Bureau d’Enquêtes et d’Analyses and to Pakistani authorities in charge of the investigation.‘Technical Fault’The carrier’s Chief Executive Officer Arshad Malik said in a briefing the aircraft, which first entered service in 2004, passed all tests before the flight and went through a major check in March. The pilot had reported a “technical fault” before deciding to go around instead of landing, he said in a video message before visiting the crash site.It’s the second plane crash for the state-owned carrier in less than four years. Pakistan International’s chairman resigned in late 2016, less than a week after the crash of an ATR 42 turboprop killed 47 people. The airline, founded in 1946, suffered as many as 51 safety-related incidents before Friday’s crash, according to data from Aviation Safety Network. Still, Burzine Waghmar, a member of the Centre for the Study of Pakistan at SOAS University of London, called the airline’s maintenance and engineering “second to none.”A day later, it was supposed to be another regular flight. But not for market professional Arif Iqbal Faruqui, who lost his wife and three daughters in the crash. On board the same flight after the accident, a noise was heard, prompting fear from nervous passengers -- moments he captured on his phone.“The aircraft is showing problems,” he said in the video. “Passengers are tensed. A few have stood up and said they don’t want to go. Still they are insisting to take us.”That plane landed safely in Karachi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pia-aircraft-hit-runway-took-off-again-before-crashing-report/story-CJKdzsJoGnB7e8LwbpK3cO.html
24-05-2020||World||Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu’s corruption trial opens today in Jerusalem court||The corruption trial of Benjamin Netanyahu opens on Sunday in a Jerusalem court, where he will become the first serving Israeli prime minister to face criminal prosecution, in a case he calls a political witch-hunt.Netanyahu is required to appear for the session in Jerusalem District Court, a week after he was sworn in to a record fifth term as head of a unity government, ending more than a year of political deadlock in the wake of three inconclusive elections.He was indicted in November on bribery, fraud and breach of trust charges in three cases involving gifts from millionaire friends and allegedly seeking regulatory favours for media tycoons in return for favourable coverage.Netanyahu, who heads the right-wing Likud party, has cast his prosecution as a leftist witch-hunt meant to oust a popular right-wing leader.As prime minister, Netanyahu is under no legal obligation to resign and he has said his court battle will not affect his ability to do his job.A three-judge panel will hear his case. On Wednesday, it turned down his request to stay away from the opening session.In asking to be excused, Netanyahu called the event a formality and argued that bringing his contingent of bodyguards would waste public funds and make it hard to comply with social distancing rules.Some critics said Netanyahu was trying to avoid the optics of a prime minister sitting in the defendant’s dock.Turning down his request, the court said it was important for justice to be seen to be done.Six years ago, former Prime Minister Ehud Olmert was found guilty of bribe-taking and served 16 months in jail. His trial took place after his 2006-2009 term in office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israeli-pm-benjamin-netanyahu-s-corruption-trial-opens-today-in-jerusalem-court/story-Rx7GKGDMArNge6BdDFBFNM.html
24-05-2020||World||Madagascar says its ‘green gold’ is go-to cure for Covid-19, experts sceptical||A drink made from a bright-green fern-like plant is being promoted in African countries as the go-to cure for COVID-19.But detractors, with undisguised scorn, dismiss claims for the concoction as at best useless -- and at worst dangerous.Madagascar President Andry Rajoelina is the promoter-in-chief of the substance, marketed as Covid-Organics and sold in the form of a herbal infusion.Asserting that the Madagascan brew has the potential to “change history”, Rajoelina has widely distributed it in his Indian Ocean island nation and exported it to many parts of Africa.The East African countries of Tanzania and the Comoros are among enthusiastic customers as well as Guinea-Bissau and Equatorial Guinea on the Atlantic coast.Guinea-Bissau President Umaro Sissoco Embalo made a point of personally taking delivery of his country’s Covid-Organics order at the airport.Artemisia annua has a long history in its native China, where scientists discovered an active ingredient that made the plant a front-line weapon in the fight against malaria.- Flying off shelves -Covid-Organics seems to be selling like hotcakes in Madagascar, costing 30 euro cents (35 US) for a 33-centilitre (11-ounce) bottle.In Senegal, Belgian agronomist Pierre Van Damme markets the product under the label Le Lion Vert (The Green Lion).“Since the start of the epidemic, demand for artemisia has gone through the roof,” Van Damme said. “But since the Madagascan president’s declarations it’s been crazy.” Sales jumped 15-fold in a few weeks, forcing Van Damme to hire eight staff to handle some 2,000 orders a day.As demand surges for the purported coronavirus remedy, prices have followed suit. Ibrahima Diop, a producer in the Dakar area, says the retail price has soared by two-thirds.“I’m swamped,” grinned Haoua Wardougou, an apothecary in a working-class district of the Chad capital N’Djamena. “I have lots of customers who want to buy some, but I’m out of stock.”Western doubtsThe counterpart to this enthusiasm is the cool reception that the drink has met in the West.The substance has proven effectiveness against malaria, but no clinical trials have tested it against COVID-19, either as a cure or as a preventative. In recent weeks, both the World Health Organization (WHO) and Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention have underscored the need for empirical testing of local formulas to demonstrate they are safe and effective as claimed.“We would be very proud if a solution in this war against COVID-19 comes from an African country,” said John Nkengasong, head of the Gabon-based Africa CDC. “But we must be methodical before approving such a remedy.”Some African countries are exercising caution, handing over their stocks of Covid-Organics for expert analysis.“They will be subjected to the same process as all other products before they are put on the market,” said Boss Mustapha, Nigeria’s point man in the fight against coronavirus. “There will be no exceptions.”Even in Madagascar, doubts persist. The dean of the medical faculty in the eastern city of Toamasina, Stephane Ralandison, warned against methods that were “not fully scientific” behind the Covid-Organics’ launch.“I am extremely cautious,” said sociologist Marcel Razafimahatratra, asking why the drink was not used in China, where the pandemic originated and where artemisia has long been used in traditional medicine.Clearly thrilled by his new continental fame, Rajoelina is an unabashed defender of Covid-Organics, charging that the West scorns the concoction because of its condescending attitude toward traditional African medicine.“If it was a European country that had actually discovered this remedy, would there be so much doubt? I don’t think so,” he told French media.For evidence he cites Madagascar’s coronavirus statistics: 405 cases including two deaths and 131 recoveries, according to the official count.‘Green gold’Rajoelina is touting artemisia as the new “green gold” for Madagascar, one of the world’s poorest countries. “Life will change for all Madagascans,” he said, noting that rice fetches $350 (320 euros) a tonne, while artemisia changes hands at nearly 10 times as much at $3,000 a tonne.A Madagascar-based company, Bionexx, has been producing artemisia since 2005 to fight malaria.Its CEO Charles Giblain is also convinced of a lucrative future for the crop.“This plant is a weed that can grow anywhere,” he said. “The only problem is to grow it in conditions that will make it competitive with Chinese rivals.”Bionexx is working to develop a hybrid to maximise the strength and effectiveness of wild Artemisia annua, with researcher Solofo Rasamiharimanana estimating that the quest could take four years.But many growers are far from convinced of its market potential.At the village of Ambohijoky on the outskirts of Antananarivo, farmers tempted by the crop quickly abandoned the effort.“We dropped it because of the prices,” said one of them, Louis Jean Patrice Rakotoninaina. “We were paid 1,050 ariary (27 cents, 25 euro cents) per kilo of dried artemisia while we expected to get 3,000 ariary.”Another, Eveline Raharimalala, said anything below 15,000 ariary was not worth growers’ while. She noted that artemisia takes six months to grow -- three times longer than other crops.Bionexx’s Giblain disputes the argument, saying: “If our prices weren’t attractive, we wouldn’t have 16,000 farmers working with us.”But one of the footsoldiers in this army of producers, Josephe Rakotondramanana, said a more important factor in growing the plant was to have a secure market.“We don’t grow artemisia for its price (but) because it’s a safe product with less risk of loss and zero need to stock,” said Rakotondramanana, who has worked with Bionexx for five years.Giblain for his part believes he is looking at Madagascar’s next vanilla -- the crop that accounts for 80 percent of world production.His ambition is to make his business, which currently produces 2,500 tonnes of artemisia per year, one of the world’s top three producers alongside Chinese rivals.Razafimahatratra, the sociologist, has his doubts.Rather than banking on a green miracle, he says, the Madagascar government should focus on ensuring food security for the former French colony’s 26 million people, 90 percent of whom live in grinding poverty.“Instead of importing 300,000 to a million tonnes of rice per year, the country should work to close this gap,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/madagascar-says-its-green-gold-is-go-to-cure-for-covid-19-experts-sceptical/story-sspw7cYw8bJmEaPQN1I17N.html
24-05-2020||World||Colombian businessman makes hospital bed-coffin combo to serve Covid-19 dead||Disturbing images of bodies of dozens of coronavirus victims awaiting burial on the streets of Ecuador’s largest city Guayaquil has motivated a businessman in neighbouring Colombia to design something he hopes would prevent a similar scenario in other countries: hospital beds that can be converted to coffins.Colombia’s health system so far has not been overwhelmed by COVID-19 patients - the country is coming to the end of two months of quarantine - but the pandemic has caused overcrowding at hospitals and funeral homes elsewhere.Worried his country’s health system might at some point be over-taxed, Rodolfo Gomez, whose company ABC Displays usually produces marketing material, designed the cardboard bed-coffins.“We saw what was happening in Ecuador, that people were taking dead family members out onto the streets...what’s happening also is that funeral services are collapsing with the pandemic,” said Gomez, 44. “So we started to develop a bed that could be converted into a coffin.”The beds have metal railings, wheels with brakes and can be inclined up and down. They can support up to 150 kg. (330 lbs.). He said the biodegradable bed-coffins cost between $92 and $132.Gomez hopes their low cost will mean local and provincial governments can outfit rural or under-funded hospitals cheaply. Converting them to coffins if a patient dies will also reduce possible contamination, he said.“Once the bodies are prepared it is converted to a coffin and covered,” said Gomez at his Bogota factory, which can produce up to 3,000 beds per month. “The staff who are nearby are not exposed to biological risk.”The first bed-coffins will be donated to the hospital in Leticia, an Amazonian Colombian city which has a high number of cases and limited hospital capacity.Gomez says he has already spoken to potential buyers in Peru, Chile, Brazil, Mexico and the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/colombian-businessman-makes-hospital-bed-coffin-combo-to-serve-covid-19-dead/story-rKJYvJ0NLA3nTKWRSo2ERL.html
24-05-2020||World||Thousands throng the streets of Hong Kong to protest against China’s security law||Hong Kong police fired tear gas to disperse anti-government protesters on Sunday, as thousands thronged the streets to protest against Beijing’s plan to directly impose national security laws on the city. The rally came as the city’s government sought to reassure the public and foreign investors over the laws that sent a chill through financial markets and drew a rebuke from foreign governments, international human rights groups and some business lobbies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thousands-throng-the-streets-of-hong-kong-to-protest-against-china-s-security-law/story-wiNYQmNIQa9u1vOZjPJxnL.html
24-05-2020||World||Politicians from 23 Nations criticise China’s plan to impose security law in Hong Kong||Almost 200 politicians and legislators from 23 countries issued a joint statement criticizing China’s plans to impose a sweeping national security law in Hong Kong, and warned that it could spark more protests in the city, Radio and Television Hong Kong reported.Signatories included Hong Kong’s last colonial governor, Chris Patten, and former British foreign secretary Malcolm Rifkind, as well as five U.S. senators, and lawmakers from Europe, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Myanmar, New Zealand, Canada and Australia, according to the report.China said it will introduce a law to prevent and punish any acts of secession, subversion or terrorism in the city that threaten national security. Pro-democracy activists say the move endangers the future of “one country, two systems,” the principle by which the Asian financial hub is overseen by Beijing.Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam said the city would cooperate fully with China to enact the legislation. Her comments are likely to anger demonstrators and fuel protests that have resurged in recent weeks following months of disruption levelled by the coronavirus. Demonstrations were already planned against Beijing-backed legislation, including a bill that would criminalize disrespecting China’s national anthem, on Sunday and Wednesday.Key Developments:Here’s the latest (all times local):Senior city officials try to reassure on law (10 a.m.)Senior Hong Kong officials defended China’s plan to enact the law, with Financial Secretary Paul Chan saying it will help quell ongoing political unrest in the city, the main threat to confidence in the financial sector.“The freedom and rights enjoyed by the general public according to law are not interfered with, daily life will not be affected, and property security will continue to be effectively guaranteed,” Chan wrote in a Chinese-language post on his official website.In a separate post, Chief Secretary for Administration Matthew Cheung said on his website that the new legislation does not affect the principle of one country, two systems, in place since the 1997 handover. The city must ensure that the business investment environment is stable, Cheung wrote in the Chinese-language blog. “Social turmoil is the enemy of peace and happiness and investors,” he said.Global group of politicians condemns law (6 a.m.)A group of 199 legislators and prominent former politicians from 23 countries said in a joint statement that the principle of “one country, two systems” is hanging by a thread in Hong Kong and described the proposed security law as a “comprehensive assault on the city’s autonomy, rule of law, and fundamental freedoms.”The protests are driven by “the genuine grievances of ordinary Hongkongers” and that harsh laws will only escalate the situation, the group said in the statement on Sunday.Hong Kongers Won’t be Whisked Over Border, Official Says (2 p.m)The new security legislation won’t be used to whisk people over the border to China, Maria Tam, vice chairwoman of the Chinese parliamentary committee that oversees Hong Kong’s law, said in an interview.Tam acknowledged that some details of the sweeping legislation expected to soon be passed by the National People’s Congress had yet to be decided.“The Hong Kong opposition has always reaped the benefit of striking fear in the minds of the Hong Kong people and asking them not to trust China,” Tam said by phone. “And so this is political capital, and I would be surprised if they don’t cash in on it. But I don’t think it’s going to happen that way.”Police Warn of unauthorized marches (2:50 p.m.)Officers will be deployed around Hong Kong on Sunday at locations where unauthorized marches are due to take place and will arrest demonstrators if necessary, according to a post on the police Facebook page.The police urged residents not to take part in gatherings that are not approved, according to the post.They also warned that anyone who gathers in groups of more than eight would violate the city’s social-distancing measures, which pro-democracy advocates have complained are suppressing lawful protests.China tries to reassure city officials (12:35 p.m.)China tried to ease fears over the proposed legislation in a meeting between central government officials and city representatives, Radio Television Hong Kong reported, citing attendees.Vice Premier Han Zheng said at the meeting in Beijing that Beijing hoped to ensure the rights and freedoms of Hong Kong people were protected and maintained, RTHK said, citing local Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference member Thomas So. There would be a consultation process, the news agency quoted him as saying.Law is ‘anti-virus’ software for city: People’s Daily (Saturday 7:35 a.m.)China’s proposed security law for Hong Kong was “anti-virus software” for the city to enhance law and order, and to build a stable foundation for the principle of one country, two systems, the Communist Party-owned People’s Daily said in an online commentary on Saturday.The anti-extradition bill movement responsible for protests in the city was the cause of the National People’s Congress introducing the security-law legislation, it said.U.K. Australia, Canada foreign ministers express concern (11:45 p.m.)“Making such a law on Hong Kong’s behalf without the direct participation of its people, legislature or judiciary would clearly undermine the principle of ‘one country, two systems’, under which Hong Kong is guaranteed a high degree of autonomy,” according to joint statement from U.K. Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab, Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne and Canadian Foreign Minister François-Philippe Champagne.The U.K., Australia and Canada are “deeply concerned” at China’s proposals for introducing the legislation.Hassett warns of capital flight if laws enacted (10:39 a.m.)White House economic adviser Kevin Hassett called China’s move “very unacceptable to the U.S. government” and predicted it would backfire on Beijing.“They’re going to see a lot of economic harm from what they’re doing, because if I had capital to invest, would you really want to invest it in a place where they’re basically, you know, sneering at the rule of law the way they are right now?” he said Friday in an interview on Fox Business Network.“I would expect that they’re going to have serious capital flight problems in Hong Kong, if they follow through this, they will no longer be the financial center of Asia, and that they themselves will pay very, very heavy costs,” he added.China must respect Hong Kong’s freedoms, U.K. says (9:23 p.m.)Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s spokesman said the British government wants to clarify exactly what China has proposed -- but warned it expects Beijing to respect the autonomy Hong Kong is due.“We expect China to respect Hong Kong’s rights and freedoms and high degree of autonomy,” Johnson’s spokesman James Slack told reporters. The U.K. remains committed to upholding Hong Kong’s autonomy under the joint declaration, Slack said.The U.K. has previously said there will need to be a reassessment of relations with China in the aftermath of the coronavirus outbreak. On Friday, the government unveiled a plan to diversify supply chains, potentially reducing Britain’s reliance on China for some medical materials.U.S. condemns China’s plan to impose legislation on Hong Kong (8:30 p.m.)The U.S. condemns China’s “proposal to unilaterally and arbitrarily impose national security legislation on Hong Kong,” Secretary of State Michael Pompeo said in an emailed statement. “The United States strongly urges Beijing to reconsider its disastrous proposal.”“The decision to bypass Hong Kong’s well-established legislative processes and ignore the will of the people of Hong Kong would be a death knell for the high degree of autonomy Beijing promised for Hong Kong under the Sino-British Joint Declaration, a UN-filed agreement,” the statement said.President Donald Trump had earlier warned that the U.S. would respond to the planned move in Beijing, amid escalating tensions between the two powers. “I don’t know what it is because nobody knows yet,” he told reporters at the White House about the possible Chinese actions. “If it happens, we’ll address that issue very strongly.”Activist Joshua Wong calls on international community (7:28 p.m.)Wong, one of the city’s most prominent activists, distributed fliers with a group of others outside the Hung Hom train station in Kowloon during the Friday evening rush hour. “We urge China to withdraw the evil bill,” he said, adding that it was “eroding the fundamental freedom of Hong Kongers.”Wong called on the global community to stand with the financial hub and said it was “time” for the U.S. to implement the Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/politicians-from-23-nations-criticise-china-s-plan-to-impose-security-law-in-hong-kong/story-UK6rv18AQDxDrs6qotlvqM.html
24-05-2020||World||Wuhan lab had three live bat coronaviruses: Report||The Chinese virology institute in the city where COVID-19 first emerged has three live strains of bat coronavirus on-site, but none match the new contagion wreaking chaos across the world, its director has said.Scientists think COVID-19 -- which first emerged in Wuhan and has killed some 340,000 people worldwide -- originated in bats and could have been transmitted to people via another mammal.But the director of the Wuhan Institute of Virology told state broadcaster CGTN that claims made by US President Donald Trump and others the virus could have leaked from the facility were “pure fabrication”.In the interview filmed on May 13 but broadcast Saturday night, Wang Yanyi said the centre has “isolated and obtained some coronaviruses from bats.”“Now we have three strains of live viruses... But their highest similarity to SARS-CoV-2 only reaches 79.8 percent,” she said, referring to the coronavirus strain that causes COVID-19.One of their research teams, led by Professor Shi Zhengli, has been researching bat coronaviruses since 2004 and focused on the “source tracing of SARS”, the strain behind another virus outbreak nearly two decades ago.“We know that the whole genome of SARS-CoV-2 is only 80 percent similar to that of SARS. It’s an obvious difference,” she said. “So, in Professor Shi’s past research, they didn’t pay attention to such viruses which are less similar to the SARS virus.”Conspiracy rumours that the biosafety lab was involved in the outbreak swirled online for months before Trump and US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo brought the theory into the mainstream by claiming that there is evidence the pathogen came from the institute.The lab has said it received samples of the then-unknown virus on December 30, determined the viral genome sequence on January 2 and submitted information on the pathogen to the WHO on January 11.Wang said in the interview that before it received samples in December, their team had never “encountered, researched or kept the virus.” “In fact, like everyone else, we didn’t even know the virus existed,” she said. “How could it have leaked from our lab when we never had it?”The World Health Organization said Washington had offered no evidence to support the “speculative” claims.In an interview with Scientific American, Shi said the SARS-CoV-2 genome sequence did not match any of the bat coronaviruses her laboratory had previously collected and studied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wuhan-lab-had-three-live-bat-coronaviruses-report/story-kcTUNcJsIUEUjBn686nPMO.html
24-05-2020||World||4 Canadian political parties claim Covid-19 federal wage subsidy to keep afloat||Canada’s political parties, including Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s ruling Liberals, are taking advantage of a historic wage subsidy package that is meant to keep businesses afloat during the economic downturn caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.The Canada Emergency Wage Subsidy or CEWS was announced by Trudeau and costs the exchequer $ 73 billion Canadian dollars (CA). It offers eligible outfits, mainly companies, nearly CA$ 3,400 per employee per four-week period and was recently extended till August. It has now emerged that most of Canada’s major national parties are using the subsidy to keep their political operations going.A spokesperson for the ruling Liberal Party confirmed it had been approved for the wage subsidy, noting in a statement that it “has met the eligibility criteria for the Canada Emergency Wage Subsidy in recent weeks and received that support.” The media outlet CBC quoted a party spokesperson as saying that this was necessitated by the drop off in in-person fund-raising due to the restrictions that came into place in March to combat the coronavirus crisis.The Liberals are not alone in using public funds to keep their party offices open, even if virtually. The principal Opposition Conservative Party is also on the list of beneficiaries as is the New Democratic Party or NDP and the Green Party.The only party that has chosen to not use the opportunity is the Bloc Quebecois. In fact, its leader was sharply critical of the other parties dipping into the till. In a tweet in French, Yves-François Blanchet said, “In order to finance their next election campaign, multimillionaire parties like the Liberals and Conservatives are dipping into money from programmes meant for companies worried about going bankrupt.”All parties have suffered from the pandemic because of the inability to hold fund-raising events and the number of donors drying up due to financial stress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/4-canadian-political-parties-claim-covid-19-federal-wage-subsidy-to-keep-afloat/story-7U4zX0gqzH1Mkv4Nd8SYxM.html
24-05-2020||World||Trump to attend Wednesday’s NASA astronaut launch in Florida||President Donald Trump plans to be on the Florida coast Wednesday to watch American astronauts blast into orbit from the Kennedy Space Center for the first time in nearly a decade.It will be the first time since the space shuttle program ended in 2011 that US astronauts will launch into space aboard an American rocket from American soil.Also new Wednesday: a private company — not NASA — is running the show.Elon Musk’s SpaceX is the conductor and NASA the customer as businesses begin chauffeuring astronauts to the International Space Station. With American shuttles no longer in use, the United States has had to rely on Russia for rides to the station.The NASA/SpaceX Commercial Crew flight test launch will carry NASA’s newest test pilots, Doug Hurley and Bob Behnken, in a SpaceX Crew Dragon capsule on a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket.They’re scheduled to blast off at 4:33 p.m. EDT from launch pad 39A, the same one the Apollo astronauts used to get to the moon.The shift to private companies allows NASA to zero in on deep space travel. The space agency is working to return astronauts to the moon by 2024 under orders from the White House, but that deadline appears increasingly unlikely even as three newly chosen commercial teams rush to develop lunar landers. Mars also beckons.The White House portrayed the launch as an extension of Trump’s promise to reassert American dominance in space. He recently oversaw creation of the Space Force as the sixth branch of the armed forces.“Our destiny, beyond the Earth, is not only a matter of national identity, but a matter of national security,” Trump said in a statement.Vice President Mike Pence, who is chairman of the National Space Council, also plans to attend Wednesday’s launch.NASA has discouraged spectators, citing the pandemic, and is limiting the number of visitors inside the space center.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-to-attend-wednesday-s-nasa-astronaut-launch-in-florida/story-wKza1Uj0w6oIFKMMoX1VSJ.html
24-05-2020||World||US Navy successfully tests a laser weapon that can destroy aircraft mid-flight||A US Navy warship has successfully tested a new high-energy laser weapon that can destroy aircraft mid-flight, the Navy’s Pacific Fleet has announced. Images and videos provided by the Navy show the amphibious transport dock ship USS Portland executing “the first system-level implementation of a high-energy class solid-state laser” to disable an aerial drone aircraft, the Navy said in a statement on Friday.It did not give a specific location of the laser weapons system demonstrator (LWSD) test, saying only that it occurred in the Pacific on May 16. Navy ships face an increasing number of threats in conducting their missions, including Unmanned Aerial Vehicles, armed small boats, and adversary intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance systems.  Watch | US Navy successfully conducts laser weapon test, destroys unmanned drone  The US Navy has been developing directed-energy weapons (DEWs), to include lasers, since the 1960s. DEWs are defined as electromagnetic systems capable of converting chemical or electrical energy to radiated energy and focusing it on a target, resulting in physical damage that degrades, neutralises, defeats, or destroys an adversarial capability, the statement said. The Navy’s development of DEWs like the LWSD, provide immediate warfighter benefits and provide the commander increased decision space and response options. “By conducting advanced at sea tests against UAVs and small crafts, we will gain valuable information on the capabilities of the Solid State Laser Weapons System Demonstrator against potential threats,” Captain Karrey Sanders, commanding officer of Portland, said in the statement.“With this new advanced capability, we are redefining war at sea for the Navy.” The Navy says lasers, which it calls directed energy weapons (DEW), can be effective defences against drones or armed small boats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-navy-successfully-tests-a-laser-weapon-that-can-destroy-aircraft-mid-flight/story-hHUtnzugX77Rh7r133EH1I.html
24-05-2020||World||Brazil, sixth worst-hit in world, sees Covid-19 curve steepening||Brazil’s coronavirus curve steepened further a day after it overtook Russia to become the country with the second-highest number of cases.The Latin American nation added 16,508 cases Saturday and said the death toll rose by 965. Brazil now ranks sixth in the world for fatalities.The country now has 3,47,398 confirmed cases of Covid-19, according to the country’s health ministry.The actual number of cases and deaths is believed to be higher than the official figures disclosed by the government, as Brazil’s testing capacity still lags.President Jair Bolsonaro has been fiercely criticised for his handling of the outbreak, which has led to the exit of two health ministers amid his insistence in opposing social distancing measures while advocating the use of unproven drugs for treatment.A video of a cabinet meeting in Brazil has emerged which has triggered outrage in the country. President Bolsonaro barely mentions the pandemic in the meeting, according to the video, which has fuelled a potentially explosive investigation.One of the few mentions of Covid-19 in the video was when the environment minister said the government should take advantage of the distraction created by the pandemic to relax the country’s environmental protection rules.Littered with obscenities, insults, tirades and potentially incriminating statements, the video triggered outcry in Brazil, where many questioned the government’s policy-making amid the pandemic.Brazilian media counted 39 swear words in all in the video, including 31 by the president. Bolsonaro called two state governors a “piece of shit” and “pile of manure” for defying him by imposing coronavirus stay-at-home measures, according to local media.The video’s existence emerged when popular justice minister Sergio Moro resigned two days after the meeting, accusing Bolsonaro of inappropriate “political interference” in the federal police.Police are reportedly investigating multiple cases involving Bolsonaro and his inner circle, including allegations that his son Carlos, a Rio de Janeiro city councilor, oversaw a fake-news campaign to benefit his father.Bolsonaro, meanwhile, denies trying to stifle investigations, and said the video proved the accusations against him were a “farce.”Meanwhile, the overall number of global coronavirus cases has increased to over 5.3 million, while the death toll surged past 3,42,000, according to the Johns Hopkins University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-sixth-worst-hit-in-world-sees-covid-19-curve-steepening/story-U2CM5C7FmFLqtaXdD8U56K.html
24-05-2020||World||Covid-19: New York Times devotes entire front page to list of virus victims||The New York Times has devoted Sunday’s entire front page to a long list of names of people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic.The names and brief descriptions culled from obituaries from around the country fill six columns under the headline “US Deaths Near 100,000, an Incalculable Loss,” with a subheadline reading: “They Were Not Simply Names on a List. They Were Us.”The all-text list takes the place of the usual articles, photographs and graphics in an effort to convey the vastness and variety of lives lost, according to Simone Landon, assistant editor of the graphics desk.A tally kept by Johns Hopkins University says more than 96,000 people have died of Covid-19 in the United States.Tom Bodkin, chief creative officer of The Times, said he did not remember any front pages without images, though there have been pages with only graphics, during his 40 years at the newspaper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-new-york-times-devotes-entire-front-page-to-list-of-virus-victims/story-Gz8qGKv1ip2nMA1U1H8M2O.html
24-05-2020||World||Covid-19: Trump wants places of worship to open, religious leaders divided||President Donald Trump used the words “this weekend” when he demanded Friday that states allow houses of worship to reopen. Robert Jeffress, an influential Texas evangelical pastor, spoke with Trump afterward and told him he didn’t plan to open his megachurch until June 7.“He wasn’t ordering every church to open,” said Jeffress, the senior minister at the First Baptist Church in Dallas who’s in regular contact with the president. “There’s no one-size-fits all.”Houses of worship, by nature centers for community, are eager to open -- especially when businesses like liquor stores, many complain, have been open throughout the deadly coronavirus pandemic. But the faithful, despite Trump’s desire to cater to them politically, appear to be moving cautiously.Jeffres, whose church spreads out across six blocks, plans to open only at 20% capacity. They will encourage mask-wearing and urge vulnerable populations, like the elderly, to continue to watch their popular services on TV or via livestream.“There is an insatiable hunger among Christians right now to get back to worship,” he said. “Yet they want to do it in a safe way.”Church Versus StateThat hunger has led to tensions with local officials. Several states have been the target of lawsuits, and on Friday a federal appeals court ruled that California churches must abide by Governor Gavin Newsom’s order to temporarily ban in-person religious services. Attorney General William Barr has threatened the state with legal action.“The governors need to do the right thing and allow these very important essential places of faith to open right now,” Trump said in a statement on Friday. “If they don’t do it I will override the governors.”Congregation Etz Chaim, an Orthodox congregation in Los Angeles, immediately took Trump up on his word and sent an email out to congregants. It noted “with great pleasure and joy” that Sabbath services could begin again Friday evening.Still, its defiance -- in a city that has asked its residents to stay home -- came with masks and social distance.‘Potentially Destructive’Some religious leaders have criticized Trump for pushing too soon. In a signed letter to the president Saturday in the Washington Post, two evangelicals called his demand “both irresponsible and potentially destructive.”They noted outbreaks in churches in South Korea, Georgia, Texas and Arkansas. On Saturday, 40 cases were traced to a church in Frankfurt, Germany.Some local leaders have tried accommodate religious services, with more than half of states already loosening rules on houses of worship. New York Governor Andrew Cuomo on Thursday allowed groups of 10 to gather -- the number for a minyan, the quorum needed for Jewish worship -- if socially distanced.Some religious leaders say they simply won’t open until local leaders encourage them to do so.Yahya Luqman, the imam at the Fazl Mosque in Washington, D.C., part of a larger local Ahmadiyya congregation in the area, said they remain closed -- and will for the foreseeable future. The biggest Muslim festival of the year, Eid al-Fitr, takes place Sunday after a month of fasting.“We want people to have people safe and healthy and alive,” Luqman said. “Worship of God can occur at home, which is what we’re encouraging.”Touch NothingAt the start of May, Florida allowed houses of worship to reopen, and the First Presbyterian Church in Bonita Springs did so -- carefully.Doug Pratt, the senior pastor, said the church sanctuary holds 1,300 people but now seats between 100 and 300 for their two Sunday services.He said masks are encouraged. There is no choir, and no one can touch Bibles, psalm-books or church bulletins. The offering tray isn’t even passed.“If people want to make a contribution, the offering plate is sitting at the door,” Pratt said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-trump-wants-places-of-worship-to-open-religious-leaders-divided/story-3QPVGQnvMySs7dCaCDNlNN.html
24-05-2020||World||Brazil reports 965 new Covid-19 deaths, confirmed cases mount to 347,398||Brazil registered 965 new coronavirus deaths on Saturday, taking the total number of fatalities to 22,013, the Health Ministry said.The country now has 347,398 confirmed cases, according to the ministry, up 16,508 from Friday, when it surpassed Russia to become the world’s virus hot spot behind the United States.The actual number of cases and deaths is believed to be higher than the official figures disclosed by the government, as the testing capacity of Latin America’s largest country still lags.Brazil’s far-right President Jair Bolsonaro has been fiercely criticized for his handling of the outbreak, which has led to the exit of two health ministers amid his insistence in opposing social distancing measures while advocating the use of unproven drugs for treatment.The former army captain has seen his opinion poll ratings drop as an unfolding political crisis adds to the economic fallout from the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-reports-965-new-covid-19-deaths-confirmed-cases-moun-to-347-398/story-Is8OPmEQiJMpK3RIxdhNhN.html
24-05-2020||World||N Korea to increase its nuclear firepower striking ability: Report||North Korea discussed new policies for increasing its “nuclear war deterrence” during a military meeting presided over by leader Kim Jong Un, state news agency KCNA reported Sunday.The report did not specify what the nuclear deterrence entailed, but said that “crucial measures” were taken at the meeting “for considerably increasing the firepower strike ability of the artillery pieces of the Korean People’s Army”.“Set forth at the meeting were new policies for further increasing the nuclear war deterrence of the country,” KCNA said.Discussions at the Central Military Commission meeting also centred on “putting the strategic armed forces on a high alert operation” in line with the “building and development of the armed forces of the country”.If the meeting, the date of which was not given, occurred in the last several days, it marks Kim’s first public appearance in almost three weeks, according to South Korean news agency Yonhap.In April, rumours swirled about Kim’s health after he was conspicuously absent from a mid-month celebration for the birthday of his grandfather, only to turn up weeks later at the opening of a fertiliser factory.News of North Korea’s nuclear discussions came after a report Friday in The Washington Post that US President Donald Trump’s administration had discussed holding the first US nuclear test since 1992 as a potential warning to Russia and China.Daryl Kimball, executive director of the US-based Arms Control Association, told the paper that such a decision would likely “disrupt” negotiations with Kim, “who may no longer feel compelled to honour his moratorium on nuclear testing”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/n-korea-discusses-new-policies-for-increasing-nuclear-war-deterrence-repot/story-WhrjyFI8bnN89Ed8RyxfHI.html
24-05-2020||World||Afghan Taliban announce three-day Eid ceasefire||The Taliban and Afghanistan’s president announced late Saturday a three-day cease-fire ahead of a major Islamic holiday that begins Sunday to mark the end of the Islamic fasting month of Ramzan. The Taliban order, which was soon followed by an announcement via Twitter from Afghan President Ashraf Ghani announcing the government “extends the offer of peace,” comes just days after US peace envoy Zalmay Khalilzad was in Kabul and Doha. Khalilzad on his trip urged both the Taliban and the Afghan government to reduce violence and move ahead with intra-Afghan negotiations, a key pillar of a US peace deal with the Taliban signed in February to allow American troops to leave Afghanistan. The deal was also touted at the time as Afghanistan’s best chance for peace after nearly four decades of war. The Taliban’s cease-fire announcement follows an Eid al-Fitr message from the Taliban leader which said the insurgent group was committed to the peace deal, was not seeking to monopolize power and promised to guarantee the rights of women and men under an Islamic system. The directive ordered Taliban fighters not to fight but also not to fraternize with Afghan national security forces. The instructions seemed intended to avoid images that circulated during the last cease-fire in 2018, also during Eid celebrations, including Taliban fighters sharing ice cream and laughing with Afghan national security force soldiers. In instructions issued Saturday, Taliban fighters were told “not to attack the enemy in any place but if there is attack from enemy in any place then a befitting defensive response shall be given.” The order also warned Taliban fighters against entering “enemy” territory. Since signing the peace deal with the United States, the Taliban have not attacked US and NATO troops but have staged numerous attacks against Afghan National Security forces. The peace deal calls for the full withdrawal of US and NATO troops by the end of next year but only if the Taliban honour their commitment to fight against terrorist groups and guarantee that Afghanistan cannot be used as a staging ground of attacks against the United States and its allies. The agreement also calls for talks between Taliban and the often-bickering political leadership in Kabul to decide the future of a post-war Afghanistan. It also calls for the release of prisoners by both the government and Taliban as a good will gesture ahead of the talks. An increase in attacks claimed by the Islamic State affiliate in Afghanistan, including a horrific attack on a maternity hospital in the Afghan capital last week, blamed on the IS affiliate, has given an urgency to finding a settlement between the government and Taliban. US Department of Defense officials speaking on condition of anonymity because they are not authorized to speak to the media, said the Taliban is seen as an asset in the fight against IS in Afghanistan. The US military in Afghanistan welcomed the cease-fire announcement saying “we reiterate our call for the militaries of all sides to reduce violence to allow the peace process to take hold.” (AP) SMN SMN||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-ghani-declare-three-day-cease-fire-for-eid-holiday/story-7W5xWIWblMsU4fLHjfz3cK.html
24-05-2020||World||South America is new Covid epicentre: WHO||The World Health Organization (WHO) has declared South America “a new epicentre” of the coronavirus pandemic while US President Donald Trump ramped up pressure on local governments to speed up the reopening of the reeling American economy.Surges in infections across much of Central and South America have driven the global case count to nearly 5.3 million, with more than 340,000 deaths, even as Europe and the US cautiously move into a recovery phase.The death toll in Brazil has soared past 20,000, and with 310,000 reported cases, it has the third-biggest caseload in the world behind the US and Russia.“South America has become a new epicentre for the disease,” WHO emergencies director Mike Ryan said on Friday. “We’ve seen many South American countries with increasing numbers of cases... but certainly the most affected is Brazil at this point.”Infections rose and ICUs were swamped in Mexico, Peru, Chile and Ecuador, countries lauded for imposing early shutdowns. Mexico passed 6,000 deaths on Wednesday. It recently reported more than 400 deaths a day. In Chile, more than 90% of intensive care beds were full last week in Santiago, where the main cemetery dug 1,000 graves to prepare for a wave of deaths. Peru has 2.5 intensive care beds per 100,000 people, one quarter of the global standard. Brazilians, meanwhile, got a shocking look at an expletive-laced meeting between President Jair Bolsonaro and his cabinet when a judge released a video at the centre of an investigation targeting the country’s leader. The video includes Bolsonaro using profanity to insult governors.In Washington, Trump ramped up pressure on local governments, saying, “The governors need to allow these essential places of faith to open right now. If they don’t do it, I will override the governors. In America, we need more prayer, not less.”Russia, meanwhile, has so far recorded 3,249 deaths - with a caseload of more 325,000 infections, second only to the US.Meanwhile, Spain’s PM Pedro Sanchez has announced that overseas visitors can return to the country from July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-america-is-new-epicentre-who/story-pvQ2xTI7PGZJ67DTOcSx9J.html
24-05-2020||India||States will need UP govt nod to hire workers: CM||New Delhi: Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said his government will lay down stringent conditions for ensuring social security of workers from UP who are hired by other states. Other states will also need to seek permission from his government before engaging workers from UP, he aid.“If any state wants manpower, the state government will have to guarantee social security and insurance of the workers. Without our permission they will not be able to take our people…because of the way they were treated in some states,” he said in an interaction with journalists through video conferencing.The CM said all migrant workers who have returned to the state were being registered and their skills mapped by his administration. Any state or entity interested in hiring them will need to take care of their social, legal and monetary rights. Adityanath also asked called for the creation of a migration commission that will look into various factors related to the rights of migrant workers and ensure they aren’t exploited.Prof Amitabh Kundu, distinguished fellow at the New Delhi-based think tank Research and Information System for Developing Countries, said requiring government permission for employing people could face a legal challenge as the Constitution guarantees the freedom of movement and residence and employment of workers.“Article 19 (1)(D) guarantees freedom to move freely, and 19(1)(e) the freedom to settled in any part of the country…so the need for permission can be legally challenged,” Prof. Kundu said.He also said the demand for labour in the southern states outstrips the employment avenues in UP. “UP does not have the capacity to absorb all the returnees, as the population growth is higher than the national average,” he said.Out-of-work migrant workers who are returning to the state has emerged as a big challenge for the government. Though the UP CM was among the first to send buses to bring back stranded workers and students, which out pressure on other state to follow suit; the government was criticised for not providing organised transport to the workers during the lockdown, which forced thousands to walk.Acknowledging that workers trying to get back home on foot was a big challenge, Adityanath said once the government had made arrangements for buses, it had to also face a second challenge of screening and quarantining the returnees.He said state ministers were divided into groups to make policies. “ One committee was assigned to look for policies for livelihood options for workers in urban and rural areas...Second committee was to deal with business sector; to provide for the workers, and the chief secretary was tasked to coordinate with the Centre and other states,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-will-need-up-govt-nod-to-hire-workers-cm/story-3m02ihdzKC28iAT2KLA2tO.html
24-05-2020||India||Odisha relaxes norms for public transport even as Covid-19 cases surge||With Odisha’s Covid-19 cases touching 1363, the state government on Sunday announced a series of relaxations in inter-state and intra-state transportation mainly buses, taxis, auto-rickshaws and two-wheelers, making it easier for people to travel. According to the standard operating procedure announced by the state government, intra-state movement of two-wheelers, private vehicles, auto-rickshaws, official vehicles and taxis (including cabs by aggregators like Ola, Uber etc.) have been allowed except in Covid-19 containment zones. Four wheelers and auto rickshaws can take up to two passengers apart from the driver..Intra-state and city buses can ply with passengers not more than their seating capacity while inter-state buses can ply as per the agreement with neighbouring states. All passengers travelling across the state by any mode of transport will compulsorily have to wear face masks and people with visible symptoms will not be permitted to travel.However, bus owners said it won’t be possible to ply buses from Monday as most employees are away due to lockdown. “We are yet to discuss with the state government over restarting operations. The final decision will be taken after talks with regional associations,” Odisha Private Bus Owners Association spokesperson Debasish Nayak said. Similarly, All Odisha Auto-rickshaw Owners Association also expressed displeasure over the government’s decision to not allow more than 2 passengers apart from the driver in auto-rickshaws from tomorrow. “We have lost income for the last 2 months. The government first needs to give us some compensation for the loss of income and also allow more passengers in the auto,” Padman Samal, secretary of the association said.The relaxation for public transport came on the day Odisha reported 67 new cases with the virus spreading to 29 of the 30 districts. The state has so far reported 1336 cases of which 832 patients are in various Covid-19 hospitals.The relaxation of the lockdown is expected to result in a surge of cases as people will come in contact with each other. Two days ago, Dr Jayant Panda, spokesperson of the Odisha health and welfare department had said that Odisha’s tally may surpass 10,000 by the end of June due to return of migrant workers from Covid-19 hotspots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-relaxes-norms-for-public-transport-even-as-covid-19-cases-surge/story-eDoodVr4XaLtRF7sVrj46H.html
24-05-2020||India||Manipur’s Covid-19 tally goes up to 32 with three new cases||Three more persons including a woman tested positive for Covid-19 in Manipur,taking the state’s tally to 32, health department officials said on Sunday.Out of the 32, 28 are active cases. Four patients have recovered and have been discharged from hospitals.“Two active cases of Covid-19 (one male and one female) were confirmed last night at the VRDL (Virus Research & Diagnosis Laboratory), RIMS(Regional Institute of Medical Sciences). The male is (32yr) is from Jiribam district. The female (25yr) belongs to Thoubal district,”Dr Kh Sasheekumar Mangang, Additional Director and Spokesperson of state health department said in a statement.Another active case (18-year-old) was confirmed on Saturday night at the VRDL, JNIMS (Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Medical Sciences), the statement said. The teenager who belongs to Churachandpur district had returned from Chennai.The state’s first two positive cases of Covid-19 had recovered and were discharged from hospitals last month.“The current recovery rate is 13.79 percent.”The number of Covid-19 cases in the state has been rising after the arrival of stranded people of the state from various parts of the country. According to official reports, more than 10,000 people have returned to Manipur from different states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-s-covid-19-tally-goes-up-to-32-with-three-new-cases/story-Y2ZBiiTe2m1w8IGzexsgNJ.html
24-05-2020||India||Question in Goa Board Std X English paper touches raw nerve, Goa BJP outraged||A question in the English paper conducted by the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education that implied that it was impossible to get jobs in Goa without offering a bribe and suggested emigration to Europe as a way out, has kicked off a political storm in the state with the ruling BJP vocally demanding action against the teacher who set the paper. The English examination which was held on Saturday involved a question in the grammar section of the paper and offered a three-sentence conversation between two friends while asking students to change the conversation to indirect speech using reporting verbs.“What are your future plans, my friends?” (Royson to Kedan).“I have applied for a Portuguese passport my friend as there are few job opportunities in Goa.” (Kedan to Royson)“You have taken the right decision. Without influence and money, it’s very difficult to get jobs in Goa.” Royson to Kedan. BJP state general secretary and former MP Narendra Sawaikar demanded disciplinary action against the paper setter, scrutinizer and all those who are associated in the process of the English question paper. “It is apparent that the objectionable questions and the form in which they have been asked is an intentional attempt by the paper setter and the scrutinizer to influence the young minds with a motivated agenda,” Sawaikar told reporters on Sunday.“In spite of the fact that the paper setter is employed in Goa and draws his salary from the taxes paid by the Goans,[he] is attempting to pollute the children. Such mindset should not be tolerated in the education and more particularly in the examination system,” Sawaikar said, urging the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education to “debar the paper setter and the scrutinizer and others associated in the paper setting, in setting question papers in future.”Commenting on the controversy, Chairman of the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education said the Board would “look into the matter.”“We will look into the matter after the conclusion of the examination and if it is necessary we will take action,” Samant said.Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat has however said that the question is “a reflection of the current situation in Goa under BJP Goa.” “No job opportunities here and then step-motherly treatment to those who go abroad earning bread and butter and then contribute to our economy. Hope Goa CM takes note,” Kamat said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/question-in-goa-board-std-x-english-paper-touches-raw-nerve-goa-bjp-outraged/story-6fru9xqkRoCiBdaqxoM8oK.html
24-05-2020||India||Bengal records biggest single-day spike of 208 new Covid-19 cases, state tally at 3,667||With the state struggling to limp back to normalcy four days after Cyclone Amphan battered Bengal, the number of Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday recorded the highest daily spike with the state reporting 208 new cases in 24 hours for the first time.The spike comes as a major concern for the state, as the cyclone-hit districts are also the ones most-affected by Covid-19.On Sunday evening 208 people tested positive for the coronavirus disease, taking the state’s tally to 3,667. West Bengal recorded more than 100 cases for the first time on May 6, reporting 112 cases and has now detected another 2,211 cases, with an average of 123 cases per day.Kolkata, North 24-Parganas and Howrah that account for 2,934 of the total 3,667 cases in the state have also been badly hit by the cyclone. These districts have most of the containment zones in the state.Among Sunday’s new cases, 52 were from Kolkata, 48 from Howrah and 21 from North 24-Parganas. South 24-Parganas, the worst cyclone-affected district, recorded only 4 new cases but that was due to too few samples being tested from the district, as large parts of it remained cut-off from the rest of the state even on Sunday, according to a senior official of the state health department.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has said that the state faces a great challenge in containing the spread of the disease, enforcing the lockdown and simultaneously doing relief and restoration work for the damage caused by Cyclone Amphan.“It’s going to be a humongous battle against nature to contain Covid-19 at this hour. We are getting reports from the districts that people are focussed on post-cyclone restoration. They are not caring about masks and social distancing. Thousands of people have been rendered homeless. They are trying to remove fallen trees and electric poles and repair breached embankments. The faster the restoration takes place, the earlier social distancing norms can be implemented again,” public health expert Rezaul Karim said. On Sunday, the state witnessed demonstrations in Kolkata, Howrah and North 24-Parganas, in areas where several people tested positive for Covid-19. Angry residents demanded immediate restoration of power and water supply.“We urge people to have patience and not to hit the streets. We are trying our best to give relief to people but we should not forget that the storm was of great magnitude and we still are battling Covid-19,” urban development minister Firhad Hakim said.West Bengal has so far recorded 272 deaths, including 72 attributed to co-morbidity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-records-biggest-single-day-spike-of-208-new-covid-19-cases-state-tally-at-3-667/story-ebqVkkjKIQ7u6dMgAkWLUJ.html
24-05-2020||India||India hopes 3-day ceasefire in Afghanistan will be further extended||India has joined other countries such as the US, Germany and Iran in welcoming a three-day ceasefire in Afghanistan, saying it hopes the truce will be further extended in order to address the humanitarian situation in the war-torn country.The Taliban announced the ceasefire for Eid-ul-Fitr on Saturday evening. Afghan President Ashraf Ghani welcomed the ceasefire and extended an offer of peace from his government. He also instructed Afghan security forces to comply with the three-day ceasefire and to “defend only if attacked”.The external affairs ministry said in a statement on Sunday: “India welcomes the understanding reached for a ceasefire in Afghanistan for three days during the Eid. We hope that this ceasefire would extend further and become permanent to address the dire humanitarian situation resulting from the coronavirus pandemic and pave the way for durable peace and stability for the people of Afghanistan.”The statement added, “India stands with the people of Afghanistan in their quest for enduring peace, security, sovereignty, and prosperity.”On Sunday, Ghani announced his government will release up to 2,000 Taliban prisoners as a goodwill gesture in response to the ceasefire, and take further steps in the peace process. US secretary of state Mike Pompeo welcomed the announcement of the truce by the Taliban and the Afghan government’s offer to reciprocate. “We worked hard to achieve this moment, and I hope that this respite from conflict gives Afghan people the space and security they deserve to celebrate Eid, while allowing the Taliban and the government the opportunity to take additional steps toward a peaceful future for their country,” he said in a statement.Iran welcomed the truce and said it hoped the gesture will help build further confidence in the peace process.The Taliban had last called for a ceasefire during Eid in June 2018. However, violence has significantly increased in Afghanistan since the US and the Taliban signed a deal in February and the world community has been calling for a reduction in violence so that the fraying peace process can be taken forward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-hopes-3-day-ceasefire-in-afghanistan-will-be-further-extended/story-Frddlga71yWrZLnufsGcvO.html
24-05-2020||India||Post marathon meeting, Puri gets states on board to resume domestic flights||As domestic flights were scheduled to begin from May 25 onwards, the fate of flight operations from states including West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra seemed uncertain till Sunday morning as the three state governments had opposed the Centre’s flight resumption plan.In a marathon meeting held from Sunday morning till late night, with the state governments, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Puri negotiated terms and conditions set by each state to convince them all to come on board for resuming flight operations, senior officials involved in the process said. “Negotiations were held with the state governments and they all came on board, as we also agreed to certain terms and conditions. State governments like Maharashtra had genuine concerns as it has the most number of Covid-19 cases but we agreed to run fewer flights to Mumbai. Only 25 flights will operate to Mumbai. West Bengal too had concerns due to the damage caused by Cyclone Amphan and we agreed to delay flight operations from the state government,” the official said.ALSO READ | As flight ops resume, Kolkata to stay off aviation map till WednesdayPuri said there will be limited flights from Mumbai and West Bengal.“It has been a long day of hard negotiations with various state governments to recommence civil aviation operations in the country. Except Andhra Pradesh which will start on 26/5 and West Bengal on 28/5, domestic flights will recommence across the country from tomorrow. Starting tomorrow, there will be limited flights from Mumbai and as per approved ⅓ schedule from other airports in the state. Limited operations to West Bengal will commence on 28th May 2020,” Puri tweeted.“As per request of the state government, operations in Andhra Pradesh will recommence on a limited scale from May 26. For Tamil Nadu, there will be maximum 25 arrivals in Chennai but there’s no limit on number of departures. For other airports in TN flights will operate as in other parts of country,” he added. On Saturday, Maharashtra and West Bengal had warned the Centre against resuming flight operations from May 25.“It’s extremely ill-advised to reopen airports in red zone. Mere thermal scanning of the passengers, inadequate w/o swabs. Impossible to have autos/cabs/buses ply in current circumstances. Adding positive passengers will add Covid-19 stress to red zones. #MaharashtraGovtCares,” Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had tweeted adding that allowing passengers to travel from green zones to red zones and “putting them to risk of exposure doesn’t make sense”.West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had also appealed to the Centre to defer flight operations in West Bengal in view of Cyclone Amphan that has ravaged parts of the state. In guidelines issued late on Sunday the state government said, “On arrival, health screening shall be done for all the passengers. Asymptomatic passengers will be permitted to go with the advice that they shall self-monitor their health for 14 days.” The state government has decided that Kolkata and Bagdogra Airport will not operate any flights till May 28 as they have asked the government to stop flights till May 30.Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had on Saturday also cautioned Puri, requesting him to avoid domestic flights into the state till May 31. On Sunday morning the state government issued guidelines on resumption of domestic flights. The state’s standard operating procedures (SOPs) will be in addition to the instructions of the civil aviation ministry and include a 14-day home quarantine for asymptomatic fliers and institutional isolation for those without facilities for home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/post-marathon-meeting-puri-gets-states-on-board-to-resume-domestic-flights/story-K12oZdRfQWgMEeFjtLgVaP.html
24-05-2020||India||Air passengers coming to Assam will be quarantined for 14-days||The Assam government will enforce mandatory facility and home quarantine for 14 days for passengers arriving by air from Monday.Nearly 4,000 passengers (around 2,000 of them to Assam and the rest to neighbouring states) are expected to arrive daily at Guwahati’s Lokpriya Gopinath Bordoloi International Airport from Monday. “As of now we expect 20 or 32 flights to operate on May 25. But since we don’t have any confirmation of that yet, we are constrained on what to expect and plan accordingly. It will take at least 10 minutes to screen one person and it might take up to 24 hours to check 1,500 people. So people coming back should expect some difficulty on the first day,” said Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma. Pilots, crew and technicians associated with operating flights would be exempted from quarantine. Same would be the case of persons who arrive and depart from Guwahati the same day provided they submit a declaration about it. If found violating the declaration, criminal proceedings would be initiated.Government officials coming on duty would also be exempted from quarantine, but their departments will have to arrange for isolated lodgings during their stay and they won’t be allowed to roam around freely. Passengers whose parents are in hospital or have deaths in their immediate family will be exempted from facility quarantine, but they will have to undergo home quarantine for 14 days.Senior citizens above 75 years, children below 10 years and their family members and handicapped persons will also be exempted from facility quarantine, but will need to undergo home quarantine. Passengers who have come from abroad and have already undergone 14 days facility quarantine in Delhi, Mumbai or any other city will also be exempted from facility quarantine.If someone has done RT-PCR test in the past 72 hours prior to their flight and has negative test results, they don’t need to spend time in facility quarantine and will undergo only home quarantine. Passengers have the option of staying in paid quarantine in 3 five star hotels in Guwahati. Others will be sent to hotels and quarantine facilities where the government will be taking care of their needs. Preference for hotel beds will be given to senior citizens and women. “Passengers will have to undergo 7 days facility quarantine and 7 days of home quarantine. But if test results come negative, some of them might be allowed to leave the facility quarantine early and spend the rest of the 14 days in home quarantine,” said Sarma. “Things will get better in the next few days. There might be some discomfort in the first 2-3 days therefore I request people to delay their journey if possible. We will enforce ruthless quarantine and there will be no compromise on protecting the health of people in Assam for the sake of those who are coming back,” he added. Sarma said that since trains and flights have resumed, the state government might close the road border with West Bengal from the start of next month allowing only goods carriers and persons travelling for medical emergencies to enter.Assam has recorded 359 Covid-19 cases till Sunday evening. Over 271 of those cases are of people who have returned to the state by roads and railways since the ban on inter-state movement was lifted on May 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-passengers-coming-to-assam-will-be-quarantined-for-14-days/story-i166xSae0fUvGE8BNqdeAK.html
24-05-2020||India||Hyundai India, Maruti workers contract coronavirus, exposing restart risks||Workers at two of India’s biggest carmakers have tested positive for the novel coronavirus days after restarting operations, exposing the risks companies and the government face in kickstarting the economy.Three employees at Hyundai Motor Co’s Indian plant have tested positive for the virus, the South Korean automaker said on Sunday. Maruti Suzuki India Ltd, which sells one in every two cars in the country, said late on Saturday one employee at its plant in the northern city of Manesar had tested positive and there was the possibility of a second case.The cases show the risks and challenges Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government faces in restarting automobile production in an effort to revive the economy after a near two-month lockdown to fight the spread of the coronavirus.Maruti, majority owned by Japan’s Suzuki Motor Corp, said there was no impact on business operations. The carmaker restarted work at its Manesar plant earlier in May. Hyundai, which restarted operations at its plant on the outskirts of the southern city of Chennai on May 8, said the three employees started showing mild symptoms of coughs and colds in the first week.“All the necessary measures are being taken for contact tracing, self-isolation and complete sanitation,” Hyundai’s India spokesman said in a statement.Test results of sixteen more workers who possibly came into contact with the infected employees are expected over the next two days, a senior government official told Reuters. “The state’s policy is to not let the industry stall,” said P Ponniah, the top bureaucrat in the Kancheepuram district where Hyundai’s plant is located.He said parts of the plant visited by the employees would be sanitised, a process likely to take 3-4 days during which time staff would be barred from those areas.Hyundai’s employees union has written to management and the Tamil Nadu state government, urging the company to immediately test all workers at its own expense, president E Muthukumar told Reuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyundai-india-maruti-workers-get-coronavirus-showing-restart-risks/story-qN8KP0wgQhvh3o3cc5gpHL.html
24-05-2020||India||Centre seeks migrants’ list in 1 hour after Uddhav Thackeray says not enough trains||Railways minister Piyush Goyal, on Sunday sought details of migrants registered with the Maharashtra government within an hour so that the railways can run 125 special trains from Monday as planned.In a tweet where he tagged Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Goyal regretted that the Maharashtra government could not give the list even after an hour’s deadline.“Sadly, it has been 1.5 hours but Maharashtra Govt. has been unable to give required information about tomorrow’s planned 125 trains to GM of Central Railway. Planning takes time & we do not want train to stand empty at the stations, so it’s impossible to plan without full details,” Goyal tweeted late evening.Goyal informed that the Railways will operate 125 special Shramik trains. He had asked Thackeray to share the list of migrants with their relevant details like - originating and destination stations, the number of migrants travelling, medical certificates with the Centre within an hourThe Centre has come under fire after the lockdown two-month lockdown triggered a mass migration of workers, many of them on foot and bicycles.Goyal in another tweet said he hoped for Maharashtra’s cooperation for the benefit of migrant labourers.“I hope that the Government of Maharashtra will fully cooperate in the efforts made for the benefit of migrant labourers,” Goyal said.Thackeray had earlier criticised the Centre for not providing enough trains for the migrants to return home despite several requests. He also said the state was yet to receive Centre’s share of the train ticket cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-seeks-migrants-list-in-1-hour-after-uddhav-thackeray-says-not-enough-trains/story-I4wfIShFYevFV5EgklJbEM.html
24-05-2020||India||Impoverished couple tries to sell 2-month old baby in Hyderabad, arrested||Driven by poverty and lack of work during the lockdown, a migrant couple in Hyderabad tried to sell their two-month-old baby boy for Rs 22,000 through a mediator on Sunday.The Jeedimetla police arrested the couple Madan Kumar Singh (32) and Saritha (30) from Uttar Pradesh, who came to Hyderabad a few years ago to work as construction labourers and have been staying at Bathukamma Banda near Jagadgirigutta.Another woman identified as Seshu, who was brokering the deal, was also taken into custody. The child was the couple’s second son, the first one is seven-years old.“We have rescued the child and shifted him to Sishu Vihar being run by the Women and Child Welfare Department authorities,” P V Padmaja Reddy, Deputy Commissioner of Police of Balanagar, told Hindustan Times.She said enquiries revealed that the couple was facing acute poverty conditions. “We are investigating as to whether there were any other reasons for the sale of the child,” the DCP said.The police said the couple had apparently thought they would not be able to raise the second child due to lack of resources. The child’s mother, however, told the police that her husband was also addicted to alcohol and was pestering her for money to buy liquor.“The couple managed to find a broker Seshu, who reportedly found a childless couple who agreed to buy the child for Rs 22,000. On receiving a tip off, we caught Seshu who was taking the child for a medical examination,” police said.Andhra Pradesh Balala Hakkula Sangham president P Achyuta Rao said it was the responsibility of the state government to come to the rescue of daily wage workers who were suffering from poverty due to lockdown. “The department of women and child welfare should launch an awareness campaign about the Cradle Scheme among the poor people who were resorting to selling of new-born babies,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/impoverished-couple-tries-to-sell-2-month-old-baby-in-hyderabad-arrested/story-EMJaMxa8ci4uvvPXtTWF9H.html
24-05-2020||India||Kerala reports one more death, 53 new Covid-19 cases||Kerala has reported another covid-19 death and 53 new cases on Sunday, said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. With latest case, death toll has gone up to 6 in the state. Though the state maintained a healthy graph with lowest mortality and highest recovery rates cases shot up with the return of expatriates from the middle-eastern countries and people stranded in other parts of the country.A 53- year-old woman, a resident of Wayanad, who returned from Dubai last week died in the medical college hospital in Kozhikkode. Doctors said she was suffering from cancer and diabetes and was on ventilator for last three days. Her husband and other relatives are in quarantine.Among 53 new cases Thiruvananthapuram and Kannur (north Kerala) reported 12 cases each, said the CM adding 18 are foreign returnees, 30 came from other states and five contracted the disease from the infected. Active cases went up to 322 and people under observation also rose to 90,000 after a gap of a month. At least 90,000 people have returned to the state and more are expected in coming days.With more trains and opening of domestic air travel, the state has made it clear that entry passes will be must for all domestic passengers like rail travellers. The government had opened a website for this two weeks back. Those who come without this pass will have to undergo institutional quarantine. Similarly it made home quarantine a must for those who stay in the state for a longer period. For business travellers and others who come here for brief stopover it is not necessary, the CM had said two days back adding it can’t take chances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-reports-one-more-death-53-new-covid-19-cases/story-GvKgblxVpxjh7RtCvHuy1M.html
24-05-2020||India||Not Covid-19, but fear of the disease kills two in Karnataka||Fear of contracting the dreaded coronavirus has led to two deaths in two separate incidents in Karnataka, officials said.In the first instance a father-son duo N Anthony (70) and Francis Rego (42) of Ramanbail village of Sirsi taluk in Uttara Kannada district who were both suffering from cough and breathing issues decided to take a ‘native herbal medicine’ as they were apprehensive that a conventional medical doctor might ask them to get checked for Covid-19. After consuming the herbal concoction Francis Rego died and his father who was rushed to Sirsi government hospital is battling for his life.Sirsi police who have registered a case said that they are investigating and getting details of what the two men had drunk and on whose advice.In a separate incident a 53-year old native of Koppa in Chikmagalur who was sent to a quarantine centre on May 20, after he displayed fever and cough hung himself in the toilet of the building in the early hours of Sunday fearing he had Covid-19. The results of his throat swab test which came a few hours later in the morning indicated that he did not have the virus. His body has been shifted to the district government hospital for post-mortem and authorities said that they are investigating the matter.Meanwhile, Karnataka continued to record a high number of Covid-19 cases with 130 more being registered on Sunday, even as the state observed curfew-like conditions with very little movement of traffic. The government has said that till the end of May all businesses and non-essential services will be shut on Sundays to break the chain of Covid-19 transmission.The state has recorded 2,089 Covid-19 cases so far which include 42 deaths and 654 recoveries. A large number of cases have been attributed to migrants returning to the state primarily from Maharashtra.Interestingly Mandya district in Southern Karnataka with 226 active cases has overtaken the capital city Bangalore which has 127 active cases. The state, therefore, has made it mandatory for all inter-state travellers to compulsorily undergo a 14-day quarantine.There were subdued Eid celebrations in coastal Karnataka which observed the festival on Sunday while other parts of the state will observe it on Monday.Prayers were offered at homes with no congregations at any of the major mosques across the coastal belt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-covid-19-but-the-fear-of-the-disease-kills-two-in-karnataka/story-AomDtnvDJwNeuaUXofFyvN.html
24-05-2020||India||Doubling rate of Covid-19 cases currently over 13 days: Harsh Vardhan||The doubling rate of COVID-19 cases in the country is currently at above 13 days, which is a significant improvement compared to the 3.4 days, which existed in the pre-lockdown phase, according to Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Sunday.“If the doubling rate in India before the lockdown was between 3.4 days, today the doubling rate is more than 13-days. Lockdown and all its guidelines have acted as a potent social vaccine,” Dr Harsh Vardhan said.The Union Minister said that the nationwide lockdown was imposed in the country at the opportune moment as compared to other countries where it was imposed either late or partially.“Lockdown was imposed in India at the right time. Other developed countries wasted many days to take this decision. In some countries when the situation went out of control they took the decision of lockdown and in most places it was partial lockdown,” he said.India witnessed the biggest ever spike of 6,767 positive cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of COVID-19 cases to 1,31,868, according to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.As many as 147 deaths have been reported in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 3,867. Out of the total number of cases, 73,560 are active and 54,440 have been cured/discharged and one migrated.Maharashtra continues to remain the worst-affected state with 47,190 COVID-19 cases. It is followed by Tamil Nadu (15,512), Gujarat (13,664), and Delhi (12,910).The nationwide lockdown, imposed as a precautionary measure to contain the spread of COVID-19 in March, has been extended till May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doubling-rate-of-covid-19-cases-currently-over-13-days-harsh-vardhan/story-Aww8y0H9aPt3sf2ATQYC0M.html
24-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9PM: In a U-turn, Maharashtra permits 25 flights to be operated from Mumbai airport and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times. In a U-turn, Maharashtra permits 25 flights to be operated from Mumbai airportMaharashtra on Sunday allowed a total of 25 flights to be operated in and out from the Mumbai international airport beginning tomorrow May 25, when domestic flights will start partial operations amid lockdown, Maharashtra Minorities Affairs Minister Nawab Malik said on Sunday. Read more. As flight ops resume, Kolkata to stay off aviation map till WednesdayAs domestic flight operations resume in India on Monday, there will be no flights to and from Kolkata which is struggling to restore infrastructure after the devastation cyclone Amphan swept through the southern part of the state on May 20. Read more. Surge in Shramik trains to UP, Bihar clog network, railways cite congestionWith several Shramik Special trains bound for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar being delayed and diverted over the past two days, the ministry of railways on Sunday said the convergence of trains to these destinations have caused congestion in the network adding that the total number of trains to the region has increased. Read more.Take out saliva but ensure more bowler-friendly pitches are prepared: Irfan PathanFormer India fast bowler Irfan Pathan has urged the ICC to focus on producing more bowling-friendly surfaces now that the practice of using saliva to shine the ball is to be shelved. Read more. Deepika Padukone, Ranveer Singh are having a great Sunday, watch her plant kisses on ‘world’s most squishable face’Actor Deepika Padukone is feeling particularly lovey-dovey this Sunday. She has shared a brand new video on Instagram which shows her planting kisses on actor husband Ranveer Singh’s face. Read more. TikTok app listing on Google Play Store now has 24 million user reviews, down from 28 million couple of days agoRecently we saw TikTok’s overall app review rating go up from 1.2 to 1.6. According to reports, this happened after Google removed a million user review ratings from Play Store, most of which were 1-star ratings for TikTok. Read more. Romance makes a return amid social distancing“I am only looking to get married now. I’ve wasted enough time playing the dating game,” says Sahil. He’s deleted all his dating apps and says he’s sure of what he wants. Read more. Mumbai Police shows how not to wear a mask using Robert Pattinson’s pic from The BatmanMumbai Police is at it again. In their latest post, the department has used a reference from an upcoming Hollywood movie to share an important message. This time their cautionary post is about masks. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9pm-in-an-u-turn-maharashtra-permits-25-flights-to-be-operated-from-mumbai-airport-and-all-the-latest-news/story-et1dLuoXOvwQxKmA7qmEHN.html
24-05-2020||India||In a U-turn, Maharashtra permits 25 departures, 25 landings to be operated from Mumbai airport||Maharashtra on Sunday allowed 25 flights to land and 25 more to take off from the Mumbai international airport beginning tomorrow May 25, when domestic flights will start partial operations amid lockdown, Maharashtra Minorities Affairs Minister Nawab Malik said on Sunday.“The Mumbai International Airport will operate 50 flights in and out on a daily basis starting Monday onwards. The number of flights will be increased steadily,” Malik said.“Starting May 25, 2020, CSMIA will resume 25 commercial passenger flight movements on departure and 25 on arrival. The initiative comes after the directive issued by the Ministry of Civil Aviation as well as after the state minister gave approval to recommence domestic flight operations to and from Mumbai,” a Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) spokesperson said.The minister, a senior NCP leader, made the statement hours after Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said that he had sought more time from the Civil Aviation Ministry to restart domestic flight services at the Mumbai airport.ALSO READ | Hours before domestic flights resume, Thackeray seeks more time for Mumbai airportEarlier in the day, state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said that it was “extremely ill-advised” to reopen airports in red zones amid the coronavirus pandemic.Barely hours before domestic flight services are due to begin in the country on a staggered basis from Monday, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray earlier on Sunday had said that the state needed more time from the Civil Aviation Ministry for restarting operations at the Mumbai International Airport.Thackeray had earlier also emphasised that the minimum possible domestic flights should be allowed from the Covid-19 hit state.“I spoke to Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri today and told him that the Mumbai international airport needs more time to resume domestic flight operations,” Uddhav Thackeray had said in an online news briefing.Maharashtra happens to be the worst-hit by the coronavirus pandemic, with Covid-19 positive cases crossing the 50,000 mark on Sunday. At least 1,635 people have succumbed to the deadly coronavirus infection till date in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-an-u-turn-maharashtra-permits-25-flights-to-be-operated-from-mumbai-airport/story-ydEkQeL6eh97HZwq6xdP5I.html
24-05-2020||India||As flight ops resume, Kolkata to stay off aviation map till Wednesday||As domestic flight operations resume in India on Monday, there will be no flights to and from Kolkata which is struggling to restore infrastructure after the devastation cyclone Amphan swept through the southern part of the state on May 20.“As West Bengal Govt is involved in restoration work after #Amphan Cyclone, State Govt requested MoCA (ministry of civil aviation) to defer resumption of flights from Kolkata Airport. Accordingly, flights will resume from Kolkata from 28 May, with reduced schedule,” the Kolkata Airport said, according to ANI.The cyclone had also flooded a portion of the airport.Restoring infrastructure is the state government’s top priority now.Several columns of the army have been deployed for the restoration work in and around Kolkata after the government sought its help.Also read: Hours before domestic flights resume, Thackeray seeks more time for Mumbai airportEarlier this week, the Centre decided to resume domestic flight operations in the country. Flight operations were suspended when the lockdown began in March.The Union home ministry has released a list of guidelines for air, rail and bus travellers in the country that focuses on detecting symptomatic passengers and ensuring their treatment. While operations at the Kolkata airport were hit by cyclone Amphan, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray Is not very keen about the resumption of air travel.In an address to the state on Sunday, Thackeray also emphasised that the minimum possible domestic flights should be allowed from Maharashtra.Under its May 19 lockdown order, the state allowed only certain kinds of flights and passenger flights were not among them .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-flight-ops-resume-kolkata-to-stay-off-aviation-map-till-wednesday/story-we5nMu16U4Rhci9x1JKd0I.html
24-05-2020||India||Bidita goes back to singing!||‘Babumoshai Bandookbaaz’ actor Bidita Bag has made the most of the lockdown period. The actor has shot for two short films on mobile at her home and has picked up singing once again besides, doing other things.“I am a trained singer and was a performing artiste since childhood. I lead the prayer in my school and was invited to perform during Durga Puja and other traditional ceremonies. But when you stop practicing the talent in you takes a backseat. You need regular riyaz to continue singing.After ages I took out my keyboard and restarted singing. I’m practicing but as of now I am too apprehensive to go back to singing completely as I know I won’t be able to deliver at the moment,” she said over phone.Bidita has done four projects in Lucknow – Babumoshai Bandookbaz, web series ‘Bhaukaal’, yet to release film ‘I Am Draupadi’ (working title) and in February she shot for ‘Lakeerein’. The two short films she shot at her home are ‘Happy Quarantine’ and ‘We Need to Talk’. “I have shot my part from my home on mobile camera. I did make-up, costume, cinematography and lighting part like a pro. Besides, I am the creative producer of both the films. So, there has been some good utilisation of quarantine.”In ‘Happy Quarantine’ she plays Jennie (of Aladdin) while, ‘We Need to Talk’ is about relationships. Story of the latter is derived from real incidents and its two characters have their own back story where one’s marriage got delayed while other’s was broken,” tells ‘The Sholey Girl.’The actor was dubbing for ‘Fauji Calling’ with actor Sharman Joshi when the lockdown happened. “A lot has been happening on personal front too. My brother is stuck in Delhi, bhabhi in Sri Lanka and parents are in Kolkata while I am alone in Mumbai’s containment zone. Also, after the Amphan Cyclone in Kolkata, I am not able to establish contact with my parents as all power and telecommunication is down. Thankfully, they are safe!”Bidita is feels it is fine to live alone and do house chores. “I am used to doing all household tasks and comfortably stay home when there is not much work. It was only after I fractured my leg, I got a maid for some help. During the ongoing crisis I’m deeply saddened with those employers who are not readily paying their domestic help and staff as this is the time when they need our support the most,” she said.She had some good work in hand to be started in May-June. “I have not heard anything from them till now so wondering if those projects will happen again or not! For actors it’s surely a tough-time ahead. I just want to lead a normal life. I don’t know what will be the new normal. There is constant worry for work but still we should be more considerate towards people who work for us be it our make-up person, attendant and others as they are my responsibility.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bidita-goes-back-to-singing/story-Z99DvlJGL4ZKRcC41mvCOK.html
24-05-2020||India||Surge in Shramik trains to UP, Bihar clog network, railways cite congestion||With several Shramik Special trains bound for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar being delayed and diverted over the past two days, the ministry of railways on Sunday said the convergence of trains to these destinations have caused congestion in the network adding that the total number of trains to the region has increased. “Most of the destinations in UP are around Lucknow-Gorakhpur sector and in Bihar around Patna. Of 565 trains running since yesterday, 266 were going to Bihar and 172 to Uttar Pradesh,” the ministry said. This comes a day after a Gorakhpur-bound Shramik Special train from Maharashtra ended up in Rourkela, Odisha adding two days and five states to the original journey, leaving its passengers clueless. The ministry had yesterday clarified that the train was diverted via Rourkela to “clear congestion”. A migrant special on the same day scheduled to reach Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh was diverted to Muzzafarpur in Bihar. Several trains have had to be re-routed due to this over the past two days, officials say as a single division, North Eastern Railway zone, has had to cater to bulk of the traffic bound for the two states. “To ease the congestion a few trains were diverted via Mathura, Jharsuguda. Further, route rationalisation order has been issued to avoid congestion on routes with heavy traffic. Round the clock monitoring at the Railway Board level, zonal railway level and divisional level is being done to ensure that trains are not delayed,” the ministry said. “The train running staff have also been sensitised to ensure punctual running of Shramik Special trains. With these efforts, the congestion position has eased considerably and the mobility of trains has drastically improved.”The Indian Railway Traffic Service (IRTS) control rooms have been struggling to coordinate with traffic management due to the congestion, with a surge in demand for migrant special trains towards Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Chairman, Railway Board VK Yadav on Saturday announced the railways will run 2600 timetabled Shramik Trains over the next 10 days. “The division is running more trains than it does even during normal times, more than 200 trains are running towards Eastern UP and Bihar leaving the Shramik train routes congested. There is a lot of demand for trains for these regions as more migrants are lining up. Apart from the traffic, these trains are not regular timetabled services and hence coordination of traffic becomes more chaotic. It also takes at least 2-3 hours for the passengers to board and de-board that causes further delays,” the official said. Nearly 80% of the total Shramik Special trains are destined for the two states, the railways ministry said adding that the “congestion position has eased considerably and the mobility of trains has drastically improved”.Indian Railways has run around 2813 Shramik Special trains till Sunday, ferrying nearly 37 lakh passengers. “Nearly 60 per cent trains originated from Gujarat, Maharashtra and Punjab and are majorly destined for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. 80 per cent of total Shramik trains are destined for various destinations in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar (1301 for UP and 973 for Bihar),” the railway ministry said. “Convergence of trains to these destinations caused congestion in the network. Further, increased time taken in de-boarding of passengers due to the various health and social distancing protocols at the stations is leading to congestion at terminals which further affects network congestion,” it added. There have also been several complaints by passengers aboard the Shramik Trains that have been diverted of being stranded without any arrangement of food and water. “Due to the surge in east bound trains leading to network congestion, trains got delayed and this affected the meals distribution schedule. IRCTC and Railways have mobilized resources to ensure regular supply of meals and water to the Shramik trains and minimize inconvenience to the passengers,” the ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surge-in-shramik-trains-to-up-bihar-clog-network-railways-cite-congestion/story-phduE7dAy5L1FQHndKuSXN.html
24-05-2020||India||IMD warns of severe heatwave conditions for next five days||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned of severe heatwave conditions across 12 states and union territories in the country over the next five days.The heatwave is predicted to sweep through Punjab, Haryana Chandigarh, Delhi, Western and eastern Uttar Pradesh, west and east Rajasthan, western and eastern parts Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Vidharbha and Mararthwada in Maharashtra, coastal Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Rayalseema regionDelhi recorded a maximum temperature of 46°C on Sunday and is likely to record a similar temperature on Monday.Heat wave is considered if the maximum temperature of a station reaches at least 40°C or more for plains, 37°C or more for coastal stations and at least 30°C or more for hilly regions.The Met office said dry northwesterly winds are prevailing over northwest and central India since the last two days and it is likely to continue for the next 4-5 days. Under its influence, heatwave to severe heat wave conditions are likely to prevail over plains of northwest India and adjoining Central India.Rainfall activity has significantly reduced over south Peninsular India, giving rise to development of heat wave conditions over parts of that region also.On Saturday, West Rajasthan, isolated pockets over Haryana, Delhi, East Rajasthan and Vidarbha reported heat wave conditions. The highest maximum temperature of 46.6°C was reported at Churu (West Rajasthan).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-warns-of-severe-heatwave-conditions-for-next-five-days/story-wwE4izgLERVb89ySc824XN.html
24-05-2020||India||With masks being the new normal, Kerala photographer develops one which reveals identity||Going by the advice of the medical fraternity, it seems we have to live with coronavirus for some time, at least till a vaccine is invented. From now on it will be a masked life. It is true that masks have become an integral part of our routine. But it creates many difficulties also-- once you wear it, it is difficult to identify you because it covers the nose, mouth and chin completely.A digital photographer in Etumanoor in Kottayam, Binesh G Paul (38) has developed a unique mask to overcome this identity crisis. After wearing it others can identify you quickly since in the new mask, the covered portion will be superimposed on the mask as it is. Binesh elaborates on how this mask will be made.“First we take a photo of the concerned person in a high resolution camera. Then we carry out sublimation printing and transfer the image to a particular paper. Later, the image will be enlarged and we cut the particular portion and superimpose it on the cloth mask with a high degree temperature. At times, we take the measurement of the chin,” he explained. A photo-imposed mask can be made in 20 minutes and it will cost Rs 60 a piece.“I have made 1000 masks in the last two days and got orders for another 5000. I am flooded with queries. I think nobody has done this before. Once we get more orders we will diversify without compromising the safety of the mask,” said Binesh who is into digital photography for more than 10 years. His family, too, is into the business of photography for about 55 years and he has inherited his studio from them.Binesh said he came across different masks carrying pictures of Mickey Mouse, Tom and Jerry, Dora, Chotta Bheem, teddy bears, film actors and animals but did not come across a mask carrying one’s own photo. He said this forced him to sit up and think.“In ATMs, while checking in airports, examination halls and other occasions masks often create problems. The new mask can overcome this. Like our PM Modi said we have to convert each crisis into an opportunity,” said Binesh adding many new innovations are in the offing as long as we cover our face with masks. In port city Kochi, a leading cloth mart has come up with designer masks to fit all occasions, be it a birthday, wedding, betrothal or funeral.There are reports that the Southern Naval Command in Kochi has instructed its personnel to wear masks matching the occasion like white masks with white uniform and navy blue with ceremonial uniforms. During parade different colours will be an eyesore, said a senior police officer adding khaki masks will be made compulsory on such occasions for the police. For the differently-abled, especially who are deaf and hard of hearing, these masks pose innumerable problems, say people working with them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-masks-being-the-new-normal-kerala-photographer-develops-one-which-reveals-identity/story-cOCbXAhWYnNAeqqJj1I7SJ.html
24-05-2020||India||Virtual courts not a substitute to physical courts: Justice DY Chandrachud||The sudden outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic forced the Supreme Court to resort to virtual court hearings to ensure the safety of lawyers, litigants and media personnel, Supreme Court judge justice DY Chandrachud said on Sunday.But virtual court hearings will not replace or be a substitute to physical courts, justice Chandrachud made it clear at a webinar organized by Nyaya Forum of National Academy of Legal Studies and Research, Hyderabad on the topic ‘Future of Virtual Courts and Access to Justice in India’.“I want to dissuade people from the idea that virtual court hearings are some sort of a panacea. They will not be able to replace physical court hearings. We had to resort to virtual court hearings because Covid-19 descended without warning and we had no other choice. We had to protect those who come to court – lawyers, litigants, media personnel, para-legal, interns”, he said.The Supreme Court, which is under complete shutdown due to the Coronavirus threat, has been hearing only extremely urgent cases since March 23 via video conferencing without the personal presence of lawyers. The top court had issued a circular on March 23 suspending entry of lawyers and litigants to the court premises and directing that only extremely urgent cases will be taken up for hearing through video conferencing during the lockdown period.The video conferencing is conducted by the court through ‘Vidyo app’ which can be downloaded on mobile phones and desktop.On the use of technology in courts, justice Chandrachud said that technology is an inseparable adjunct to rule of law and will have to be employed as a critical element in court design. But it should be inclusive and should replace court procedures into manageable chunks, he added. “Our court procedures are tardy and unintelligible to common people”, justice Chandrachud conceded.Justice Chandrachud, who is also the chairperson of the e-committee at the Supreme Court, said that the digitization of courts including e-filing must be standardized across the country.The filing of cases in Supreme Court is set to undergo a radical change with the introduction of the new e-filing module in the near future. The module will provide personalized information to every advocate-on-Record of cases which have been filed by them, their own causelist of cases, details of pleadings filed by them and pleadings filed by others in cases in which they are appear.The service will be available round the clock which would mean that a lawyer can file a case anytime of the day and any day irrespective of whether the registry is working or not.“We as judges have a vital role to ensure that young members of the Bar are trained and we have to do the hand-holding ourselves”, justice Chandrachud said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/virtual-courts-not-a-substitute-to-physical-courts-justice-dy-chandrachud/story-8YrTg4dmP2IKzFJMnDrdqK.html
24-05-2020||India||Floods affect more than 10,000 in four districts of Assam||Amid the ongoing lockdown to control spread of Covid-19 pandemic, heavy rainfall in most parts of the state during the weekend has affected 10,800 persons in four districts of Assam.According to Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), 46 villages in seven revenue circles have been affected in Lakhimpur (3), Goalpara (2), Sonitpur (1) and Darrang (1) districts.While water level of most rivers in the state including Brahmaputra and its tributaries have increased in the past two days, only the Jia Bharali was flowing above the danger level at Sonitpur.Floods have affected 23,000 domestic animals and poultry and cases of damage to roads and erosion have been reported from the affected districts.“I have directed district administrations to immediately set up special units, consisting officials from various departments and government agencies, to tackle flood and enhance our collaborative efforts to carry out rescue and relief efforts in the flood affected areas,” Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/floods-affect-more-than-10-000-in-four-districts-of-assam/story-qnpUIExFYAi0GOkA3wxtlI.html
24-05-2020||India||Worker who returned from Mumbai dies of suspected Covid-19 in Jharkhand||A 19-year-old migrant worker who had returned from Mumbai, died of respiratory complications late Saturday night in Jharkhand’s Koderma district prompting officials to send his samples for Covid-19 test.“The youth had come from Mumbai privately on a truck on May 16 and went straight to his village in Satgawa block. When it came to our knowledge, he was picked up and sent to the quarantine centre set up at the block’s Panchayat Bhawan,” said Koderma deputy commissioner Ramesh Gholakh.He added, “On Saturday, he developed some Covid-19 symptoms including respiratory trouble and dysentery and was brought to the district’s Sadar hospital for treatment. His condition further deteriorated and he was shifted to the city’s Jaiprakash Hospital for better treatment but he died late night.”“Since he had symptoms of coronavirus infection, his samples were taken for testing to confirm if the death was due to pandemic,” the deputy commissioner said, adding, “Test result is awaited.”The body was reportedly cremated as per the health department’s protocol for Covid-19 casualties.Koderma district had reported its first Covid-19 death on Saturday after another migrant worker, who too had returned from Mumbai, tested positive for SARS-COV-2 virus after his death on Thursday.The 39-year-old man had died of cardiac arrest on May 21. Since he came from Mumbai, a Covid-19 hotspot, his samples were taken and tested for Covid-19. The test report, which came on Saturday, showed positive.Jharkhand has so far reported 353 positive cases including 141 recoveries and four deaths.On Sunday, three more positive cases were reported from East Singhbhum district taking the state’s tally to 353.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/worker-who-returned-from-mumbai-dies-of-suspected-covid-19-in-jharkhand/story-cKovlJu6EoACUkg1TPPxcP.html
24-05-2020||India||HC seeks BMC’s response on using developer’s property as quarantine centre||The Bombay high court has directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to respond to a plea by a developer from Andheri seeking clarification on how long the civic body would keep possession of a building constructed under the slum rehabilitation authority (SRA) scheme.The BMC had taken possession of the completed building in the first week of May to use it as a Covid-19 quarantine facility but did not inform the developer of the duration of its use or amount of compensation it would pay, the developer then approached the court.A division bench of justice R D Dhanuka and justice Abhay Ahuja while hearing a petition filed by Sahyog Homes was informed by advocate Nilesh Gala through video conferencing that the developer had undertaken an SRA project at Andheri and had completed construction of a couple of buildings. However, construction of other buildings were held up as the civic body had not issued other certificates required to continue work on the project.Gala further submitted that as the building acquired by the BMC did not have an Occupation Certificate or a No Objection Certificate, the civic body would be solely responsible in the event of any untoward incident and the developer could not be held answerable for it. He further submitted that in light of this the court should direct the BMC to expedite granting of certificates for the completed buildings in the project as well as disclose the duration till when the building would remain in its custody.Additional government pleader Jyoti Chavan submitted that the state had not been served a copy of the petition. After hearing the petitioner’s claim she informed the bench that a similar petition had come up earlier on May 11 with almost identical prayers and hence both petitions could be heard together.After hearing the submissions, the bench directed the BMC’s advocate Rupali Adhate to file an affidavit within two weeks and to mention the period for which the building was requisitioned and the compensation amount that would be paid to the petitioner and posted the petition to be heard along with the earlier petition on June 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-seeks-bmc-s-response-on-using-developer-s-property-as-quarantine-centre/story-uLOwdO9Fq66Nb34HPb2H7K.html
24-05-2020||India||NDRF salvages 150 wine bottles stolen from Gujarat police station, dumped in canal||An expert team of divers from the National Disaster Response Response Force (NDRF) continued to search a water body in Gujarat’s Mehsana district on Sunday to recover alcohol bottles stolen from a police station and dumped there, police officials saidThe NDRF team of divers which was deployed by the Gujarat police on Saturday has so far managed to recover 150 of the 1,200 bottles stolen.Gujarat is a dry state, where liquor sale is prohibited. NDRF is a premier national force that specializes in rescue operations during disasters. Mehsana superintendent of police, Manish Singh said they had received a tip-off on Thursday that some liquor bottles have been stolen from the Kadi police station and have been dumped in Narmada Canal passing through Narsinghpura area which is close to the police station.“As the matter was sensitive, I had informed my inspector general of police (IGP), Gandhinagar. After which a special investigation team (SIT) was formed to find out where the bottles were stolen from, who dumped them in the water body and who were involved,” Singh said, adding that the investigations were on.Another police official said on the condition of anonymity that there were complaints that illegal liquor business was thriving in Mehsana town because of the connivance of the staff of Kadi police station with local bootleggers. The local police had seized liquor worth Rs one crore in the district in the past two years but they were not destroyed.“As per government orders, the liquor confiscated has to be thrown away within a year in presence of senior district officials. But that was not done in Mehsana,” the officer said. “Foreign liquor cartons seized in past were kept in the store room of the police station. During lockdown, when inter-state borders were sealed, these liquor bottles were sold with the help of local bootleggers. Complaints were received at the office of the director general of police and inspector general of police a few days back that around 1,200 bottles of foreign made liquor were missing,” the official said. A complaint was lodged at Kadi police station that liquor has been stolen, he added.As the police started investigation, two police officers went missing and police received information that a large number of liquor bottles have been dumped in Narmada drain, Singh said. He added that NDRF’s help was sought to recover the bottles after the fire brigade team failed to find them on Friday. “The NDRF has deep divers and they have so far recovered over 150 bottles,” he said.In Gujarat, where only tourists can buy liquor after filling a form, smuggling and sale of liquor can land a person in jail for 10 years with a fine of Rs five lakh. The punishment was enhanced in 2017 after the government found that there was smuggling of liquor in Gujarat was rampant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ndrf-salvages-150-wine-bottles-stolen-from-gujarat-police-station-dumped-in-canal/story-SH1R7xn2kJXAT9omPksoKI.html
24-05-2020||India||Will build ‘Modi temple’ with PM’s idol, says BJP MLA who launched ‘Modiji ki Aarti’||Uttarakhand BJP MLA Ganesh Joshi, who launched ‘Shri Modiji Ki Aarti’ recently, on Sunday announced that he will soon build a ‘Modi temple’ dedicated to Prime Minister Narendra Modi with his idol in it after the lockdown ends. Joshi who is a ruling party legislator from Mussoorie constituency had earlier launched ‘Modi aarti’ (prayer dedicated to Modi) at a function organised by him to felicitate Covid-19 warriors on Friday. Joshi said he launched the aarti penned down by a Modi supporter Dr Renu Pant in presence of state higher education minister Dhan Singh Rawat.Following the development, he and BJP came under attack from Opposition party Congress which has called it a prime example of ‘sycophancy’. However, Joshi refused to budge and on Sunday announced said that he will soon build a temple dedicated to PM Modi. “I have immense respect for PM Modi who is not just our nation’s leader but a world leader also. Even US President Donald Trump is in awe of him. I have done nothing wrong in launching his aarti and will soon build a temple with his idol in it after the lockdown,” said Joshi. Lauding the prime minister, Joshi also said, “He works 18 hours a day which clearly states that he is blessed with some divine power. My initiative to build a temple dedicated to him is just to pay respect to him.”The MLA claimed that he has kept Narendra Modi’s photograph near the deities at the prayer room at his home,“At home, I have kept his photograph near other deities in the prayer room. After offering prayers, I pay my respects to him also. I have also kept his photograph in my office since 1999 when he was just a party office-bearer. I have unparalleled devotion towards him,” he said. On the launching of aarti for Modi, he said, “One of my aides received it on his WhatsApp and showed it to me. I liked it very much and got it printed on small pamphlets to launch it formally. In the future, if I get anything similar, I will do the same again.”The aarti launched by Joshi talks about how “World is scared of Modi’s power and how his opponents fear to even come close to him.” It also praises him as a leader with whom even “Trump is awestruck.” It also lauds him for “Building Ram Mandir and revoking Article 370 in Kashmir.”Dubbing the publicising of a prayer devoted to the prime minister as ‘sychphancy’, Suryakant Dhasmana, Congress state vice president said, “It is the height of sycophancy and ‘andh bhakti’ (blind devotion). If it was done by any party worker then we would have no issue regarding it. But it was done at an event attended by a state minister and a ruling party MLA which states that they believe in fascism which is all about worshipping a leader in place of God.”Dhasmana also attacked BJP and Joshi for ‘hurting Hindu sentiments’ claiming the aarti is ‘nothing but Lord Hanuman’s aarti with his name replaced with Modi’s.’“They could have penned a totally new one but they decided to just make changes in Hanumanji’s aarti by replacing his name with that of PM Modi’s. First they came out with a slogan of Har Har Modi in disrespect of Lord Shiva and now this. They have clearly hurt sentiments of Sanatan Dharma which is not tolerable at all,” said Dhasmana. Joshi, however, refuted Congress’ attacks and said, “Who are they to lecture us? We don’t need any certificate from them but from the public.”The state BJP leadership has however distanced itself from this issue. Party state spokesperson Ajendra Ajay said, “That aarti is not any official document of the party. It was penned down by a staunch supporter of PM Modi which was just launched by our MLA at an event organised by him in the presence of minister Dhan Singh Rawat.”Despite several attempts Dhan Singh Rawat could not be contacted for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-build-modi-temple-with-pm-s-idol-says-bjp-mla-who-launched-modiji-ki-aarti/story-HI7LGb93NbKEHfcME20C0M.html
24-05-2020||India||Andhra Pradesh CM to take feedback on his one-year term from Monday||YSR Congress party president and Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, who would be completing a year in office on May 30, has called upon the people to review the welfare and developmental schemes taken up by his government in the last one year.Starting Monday, the government will take up a series of brainstorming sessions in the name of “Mana Paalana-Mee Soochana” (Our government-your suggestions) till May 29, seeking to interact with a cross-section of people including experts, intellectuals and other stakeholders to review the schemes.According to state planning secretary GSRKR Vijay Kumar, the chief minister will interact with all stakeholders and take feedback from them at all levels on whether the schemes impacted the lives of citizens like they were supposed to.Also read: Passenger train services to begin from June 1 - All you need to know“The government intends to assess the ground realities and impact of its numerous initiatives and also to get feedback from different stakeholders like user groups/beneficiaries to further consolidate the efforts and devise a future action plan,” Vijay Kumar said.As per the agenda for the daily discussion, ‘governance and welfare’ will be discussed on Monday, ‘agriculture and allied activities’ on Tuesday, ‘education’ on Wednesday, ‘industries and infrastructure’ on Thursday and ‘health’ on Friday.On May 30, which marks the completion of the first year of YSR Congress government, the chief minister will inaugurate Rythu Bharosa Kendra, which would look after disbursement of direct cash transfer scheme for farmers.Vijay Kumar said these sessions would be conducted both at the state and district level. While state-level sessions will be chaired by CM Jagan in the forenoon session, district in-charge minister will chair the district level sessions in the afternoon. “The chief minister and the ministers will take feedback directly from the beneficiaries and other stakeholders,” he said.In tune with the Covid-19 regulations, not more than 50 people including beneficiaries and experts would attend the sessions, the planning secretary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-cm-to-take-feedback-on-his-one-year-term-from-monday/story-KjVyILtZbumfbgmfwuCu0N.html
24-05-2020||India||Hours before domestic flights resume, Thackeray seeks more time for Mumbai airport||Barely fifteen hours before domestic flight services resume in the country on a staggered basis from Monday, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray  on Sunday said that the state needed more time from the Civil Aviation Ministry for restarting operations at the Mumbai International Airport.The chief minister also emphasised that the minimum possible domestic flights should be allowed from Maharashtra.“I spoke to Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri today and told him that the Mumbai international airport needs more time to resume domestic flight operations,” Uddhav Thackeray said in an online news briefing.ALSO READ | Uddhav Thackeray slams BJP, says won’t indulge in politics over Covid-19“Till the time MIAL (Mumbai International Airport Limited) plans and fine-tunes the airport operations, the aviation ministry should initiate minimum possible domestic flights from Maharashtra from May 25, which are purely emergent in nature like for international transfer of passengers, medical emergencies, students, and cases on compassionate grounds,” the Maharashtra chief minister said.The Shiv Sena chief also indicated that at least 13 more international flights would be landing at the Mumbai airport by June 7.Earlier this month, the Civil Aviation ministry had announced resumption of domestic flight services from May 25 as part of the Centre’s efforts to gradually open air travel.Domestic and international flights had been suspended nearly two months ago in March due to the nationwide lockdown imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus infection.According to Maharashtra government officials, the state has not yet amended its May 19 lockdown order which allowed only certain kinds of flights to ply.The Maharashtra government had only excluded domestic medical services, domestic air ambulance and flights for security purposes from the lockdown as permitted by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA).Maharashtra happens to be the worst-hit by the coronavirus pandemic, with Covid-19 positive cases touching 47,190 on Saturday. At least 1,577 people have succumbed to the deadly coronavirus infection so far in the state.Mumbai alone has over 28,000 coronavirus positive patients with the death toll in the city at 949.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hours-before-domestic-flights-resume-thackeray-seeks-more-time-for-mumbai-airport/story-SHjYvx0qPcURONpqGX8g4N.html
24-05-2020||India||Heatwave grips parts of country, Maharashtra’s Sonegaon hottest location in India: 10 points||Parts of North India, Vidarbha, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat will continue to reel under the effect of a heatwave with no respite likely in days to comes, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its bulletin on Sunday afternoon. According to the IMD, heatwave conditions were observed over parts of Haryana, Delhi, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana and Gujarat on Sunday. Here are the top developments:1. Maharashtra’s Sonegaon in Nagpur recorded the maximum temperature in India on Sunday at 46.2°C. Nagpur was the hottest location in the state and the second-hottest in India on Saturday.2. Highest maximum temperature of 46.7°C was reported in Pilani (East Rajasthan) on Saturday. 3. The IMD has issued a “red” warning for Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Rajasthan for the next two days. 4. An orange warning for heatwave has been issued for east Uttar Pradesh, said Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of IMD’s Regional Meteorological Centre.5. As per the IMD, the national capital witnessed the maximum temperature of 46°C on Sunday. The heatwave conditions are likely to continue in Delhi for the following two days.Also read: Top hottest cities in India amid heatwave warning till next week6. The temperature may take a slight dip later next week with a possibility of rain and thunderstorm around Friday (May 29) in the national capital, the weather department predicts.7. The maximum temperature in Delhi is likely to hover around 46°C until May 26. Some respite may be expected over the weekend. 8. “Till May 27, there will be no respite. The maximum temperature can go up to 46- 47 degree Celsius in the Capital because of dry, hot winds blowing. From May 28 night, a western disturbance will affect us which may cause dust storm or thunderstorms. Low level easterly winds may also bring some relief after May 28,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, Delhi. 9. According to the weather department, heatwave conditions are likely in parts of northwest, central and peninsular India in next four to five days.10. The weather department’s colour-coded warnings – green, yellow, orange and red - are based on the intensity of the weather system.According to the IMD, heat wave is considered if the maximum temperature of a station reaches at least 40°C or more for plains, 37°C or more for coastal stations and at least 30°C or more for hilly regions. Heatwave is declared based on:Departure from normal temperature • Heatwave: Departure from normal is 4.5°C to 6.4°C • Severe heatwave: Departure from normal is >6.4°C Based on actual maximum temperature (for plains only)• Heatwave: When actual maximum temperature ≥ 45°C • Severe heatwave: When actual maximum temperature ≥47°CTo declare heatwave, the above criteria should be met at least in 2 stations in a meteorological sub-division for at least two consecutive days, the IMD states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heat-wave-grips-parts-of-country-maharashtra-s-sonegaon-hottest-location-in-india-10-points/story-eTMKNQ5fhgNsMQGZDNr95N.html
24-05-2020||India||Amphan leaves Bengal’s crisis-ridden jute mills battered and bruised||Already reeling under the ongoing lockdown, many jute mills in Bengal have suffered structural and material losses during cyclone Amphan that hit Kolkata and surrounding districts on May 20.Among the worst-hit mills are a few the state’s oldest ones located in South 24 Parganas and Howrah districts, Raghavendra Gupta, chairman Indian Jute Mills Association (IJMA), told HT on Sunday. Set up in 1884, IJMA is the apex business chamber for India’s jute industry.Bengal is the highest producer of jute in the country. The fresh crisis comes at a time when mills in Bengal were under pressure from other states to produce bags on an emergency basis for transportation of Boro rice and relief materials being supplied to people during lockdown.“Although there is no report of any damage to machinery, structures of the mills and stored raw jute suffered damage. We are yet to calculate the extent of loss but supplies of jute products will be definitely hit. All the 60 operational jute mills in the state had started production (with limited manpower) during the lockdown,” said Gupta.Incidentally, last week IJMA said that during the lockdown the industry suffered a nationwide loss of Rs 1250 crore.“The jute Industry is grappling for survival after being in lockdown for over one and a half months now. Already 1.5 lakh metric tonnes of production of jute goods has been lost estimated to be valued at Rs.1,250 crore. With the cash flows drying up, jute mill companies are finding it extremely difficult to make ends meet,” IJMA said in a statement on May 19.On April 3, the Centre urged the Bengal government to direct jute mills to resume operation in view of shortage in supply of packaging materials. In a letter, the Centre said, “Procurement operations of foodgrain, for which availability of packaging material like jute bales are immensely required by major procuring states like Punjab, Harayana, Uttar Pradesh and Madya Pradesh where procurement operations will begin from April and peak season is for only two-three weeks only,” the letter said.On April 5, Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to open jute bag manufacturing units in Bengal and ensure transportation of jute bags through special goods trains to his state. Rao told Modi that there was a severe scarcity of bags and Telangana needed 20 crore jute bags to procure paddy.The Bengal government, however, issued permission to the jute mills to resume operation with limited manpower. Initially, permission was given to deploy only 15 per cent people which was later increased to 50 per cent in phases.Gupta told HT last week that the future of over three lakhs jute mill workers and 40 lakhs jute farmers hang in balance and if the situation persists it may result in permanent sickness and closure of mills.“Jute industry’s loss has been plastic industry’s gain. Continuous dilutions under the provisions of the Jute Packaging Act has taken place over the lockdown period. Already about 3 lakh bales of orders for jute bags have been diverted to PP/ HDPE industry. If the lockdown situation continues any longer, further dilutions cannot be ruled out,” IJMA said in a recent statement.“The damage done by Amphan is going to hit relief work. This is a new crisis,” said a senior state food and supplies department official who did not want to be named. The department’s minister Jyotipriyo Mullick could not be contacted despite repeated attempts because of failure in mobile network.According to IJMA, the carryover of raw jute at the end of the jute crop year 2019-20 is expected to be over 22 lakh bales. “With reports of normal sowing this year, across all jute growing areas, the prices of jute fibre has fallen below the Minimum Support Price of Rs. 4,225 per quintal for TDN3 grade,” said IJMA in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amphan-leaves-bengal-s-crisis-ridden-jute-mills-battered-and-bruised/story-69KVEJ5fjDJIz8etVvK31M.html
24-05-2020||India||Uddhav Thackeray slams BJP, says won’t indulge in politics over Covid-19||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday put his former ally Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in his line of fire for playing politics while the state government was battling the Covid-19 pandemic.Thackeray, in his address to the State, said that his government will not indulge in politics “as it does not suit the culture of Maharashtra”. The chief minister also said that the Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, which now has 47,190 cases, are likely to rise further by May end.Maharashtra has been clocking over 2,000 fresh cases daily since last week, but the Centre’s projection that the state would have around 1.25-1.50 lakh cases has not come true“I am still of the opinion that these are testing times, and that nobody should indulge in politics now. Even if you do, we will not because we have got the responsibility of Maharashtra and the people of Maharashtra have faith in us. And I will never let that faith (in us) go in vain,” Thackeray said.“As I have honestly said the Centre is helping us (State). We are still facing issue like GST refund, it is still to reach us. Should I make it an issue? Earlier PPE kits were not coming; there is still a deficiency in the supply of medicine. Should I yell over it? We are still to get the money for the trains. If we start doing this, then this is not humanity… Just playing politics for the sake of it does not suit the culture of Maharashtra. I will preserve Maharashtra and its culture. It does not fit in my principle to play politics at times of difficulty and I will not do it,” the CM said.The BJP, led by former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, had staged Maharashtra Bachao (Save Maharashtra) agitation on May 22 and demanded a financial package worth Rs 50,000 crore for farmers and daily wage earners.In a veiled jibe at the BJP, Thackeray said that the state government is not going to announce “empty packages” but do “actual” work.“Some people are asking why have you not announced a package? We are giving everything. At the moment, the crisis in front of us is related to public health. Till now many packages worth lakhs and crores have been announced. It is packaged nicely when you open it is an empty box. Our Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government is not the one to announce empty packages,” he said in his address on Sunday afternoon.Thackeray also outlined the state government’s steps taken for the people and migrant labourers including widening the scope of Shiv Bhojan scheme, following up with the Centre to give foodgrains for people who do not have ration cards, Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Aarogya Yojana, etc. He said that 5.5 to 6 lakh migrant workers have been provided food till now. “These steps are beyond any package. getting food and medical treatment is important. All these schemes are for all classes because virus does not know any class or religion. The public insurance scheme gives 100% free treatment to all. This is a package. Should we announce it and advertise it or should we keep working,” Thackeray asked.Speaking about the measures to tackle Covid-19 outbreak, Thackeray said that the state has prepared for a surge in numbers by the end of this month. “There was a projection that Maharashtra could have 1.25-1.50 lakh coronavirus positive cases by May end. But, currently we have 33,786 [active] Covid-19 cases, around 13,404 have recovered. This is thanks to the lockdown and discipline maintained by you,” he said. “Cases will increase now, we are preparing and created hospital infrastructure for it. By the end of May, we will make 14,000 beds available, currently, we have already created around 7,000 beds including 3000 in our field hospitals.”The CM also appealed to people to celebrate Eid inside their homes and not come on the streets. “Several exemptions have been made but it’s important not to crowds shops when they open. We will still need to follow instructions, otherwise, we will have to close it again. We need to get our life back on track. Congregations, religious functions are still not allowed. Celebrate at home to emerge out of this situation in a better and effective way,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uddhav-thackeray-slams-bjp-says-won-t-indulge-in-politics-over-covid-19/story-Cz5SnaWarXUnTo0d0FfEaO.html
24-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: Follow guidelines, Hardeep Puri tells flyers as flight ops set to resume and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Follow guidelines, Hardeep Puri tells flyers as flight ops set to resumeAhead of domestic flights resuming on Monday, aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri reminded flyers to strictly follow the latest travel guidelines issued by the Union home ministry. Read more‘Fight against Covid-19 to be tougher now, prepared with extra health facilities’: Maharashtra CMMaharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday held an online briefing on the prevailing coronavirus situation in the state and said that the fight against Covid-19 is going to be a “tougher one” but the administration is prepared with extra medical facilities. Read moreRecharge: This column does not existIf you haven’t already, check out ThisPersonDoesNotExist.com. The site displays a new human face every time you refresh the page. You might encounter a curly-haired young woman, a bespectacled gentleman, a freckled brown granny, a black teen grinning like he’s in a toothpaste ad. Read moreStep inside Shah Rukh Khan and Gauri Khan’s elegant sea-facing home Mannat with these picsIt’s one thing to have a nice home and totally another when it becomes the biggest tourist landmark of your city. Shah Rukh Khan and Gauri Khan’s home Mannat is perhaps the most iconic house in all of Mumbai where thousands of fans arrive every day for a selfie with the Bollywood star on a lucky day. Read moreReliance JioMart launched: Availability, how to order, registering details and other questions answeredJioMart, the latest e-commerce platform by Reliance is now official and available in more cities across India. Being in tests since the past few weeks in Mumbai, it is now available in some other tier 1 and tier 2 cities as well. Read more‘Online bullying is not OK,’ Wrestling community mourns death of 22-year-old wrestlerThe professional wrestling community mourned the loss of young Japanese pro-wrestler Hana Kimura after she lost her life on Saturday. Read moreUS Navy successfully conducts laser weapon test, destroys unmanned droneUS Navy warship successfully tested a new high-energy laser weapon. USS Portland - LPD 27 conducted a successful Laser Weapon System Demonstrator (LWSD) test and disabled an unmanned aerial vehicle in the first system-level implementation of a high-energy class solid-state laser. US Navy has been developing directed-energy weapons since the 1960s. Watch the full video for more.Want to know why your dog always follows you around? This doggo may have an answerMost pet parents will agree with us when we say that interpreting the thoughts of our furry friends is often an impossible task. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-follow-guidelines-hardeep-puri-tells-flyers-as-flight-ops-set-to-resume-and-all-the-latest-news/story-0stAr3E2WGCmW0fM0uoJ0H.html
24-05-2020||India||Passenger train services to begin from June 1: All you need to know||The Railways will begin running 200 passenger trains from June 1, bookings for which have started from 10 am on May 21. These train services will be in addition to the existing Shramik Special trains  and special AC trains started by the Railways earlier to help stranded migrant workers in various states get back home. Jan Shatabdi trains, Sampark Kranti, Duronto Express and other regular passenger trains are among those that will ply from next Monday. No linen, blankets and curtains shall be provided inside the trains. Only passengers with confirmed tickets shall be allowed to enter railway stations. On arrival at their destination, the passengers will have to adhere to strict health protocols as prescribed by the destination state or Union Territory.ALSO READ | Railways to start 200 non-AC special passenger trains daily from June 1Tickets can be booked online through the IRCTC website, CSCs and ticketing agents. Reservation counters have been opened by the Railways in a phased manner from May 22, keeping in mind local needs and conditions.Here’s all you need to know about resumption of train services from June 1:1. These trains will be fully reserved having AC and non-AC classes and General Coaches.2. Normal fare will be charged for General Coaches, Reserved and Second Seating (2S).3. There will be no unreserved coach in these trains.4. Running of Shramik Special trains to continue to be handled by various state governments.5. Other regular passenger services including all mail, express, passenger or suburban services will continue to remain suspended.6. Railways will ensure separate entry and exit gates at all stations as far as possible.7. Standard social distancing guidelines, safety and hygiene protocols to be followed by all passengers.8. Movement of passengers and the driver of the vehicle to and from the railway station to be allowed only on confirmed railway tickets, in accordance with Home Ministry guidelines. 9. The Advance Reservation Period will be a maximum of 30 days.10. RAC and waiting lists will be generated as per guidelines framed by the Railways post lockdown.11. Waiting list ticket holders will not be permitted to board the train.12. The Railways will issue no unreserved tickets and no tickets will be issued on board the trains.13. No tatkal and premium tatkal booking of tickets will be permitted by the Railways.14. The first chart will be prepared at least 4 hours before the scheduled departure of the train. 15. Passengers to reach the station at least 90 minutes in advance.16. All passengers will be compulsorily screened and only asymptomatic ones will be allowed to board the train.17.Only passengers with confirmed tickets will be allowed to enter the railway station.18. All passengers must wear masks at the entrance of the station and during travel.19. Passengers must observe social distancing both at the station and on trains during travel.20. Fares will be refunded if a passenger is found unfit for travel due to symptoms of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/passenger-train-services-to-begin-from-june-1-all-you-need-to-know/story-Qgu3Z2lnoSHXoy2vEAOo3O.html
24-05-2020||India||Chhattisgarh witnessed biggest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases on Saturday||Chhattisgarh witnessed the biggest single-day spike in the number of Covid-19 cases on Saturday as per the medical bulletin released by the health department.Total 44 people were found coronavirus positive in Chhattisgarh on Saturday, including a woman junior doctor posted in a government hospital in Bilaspur.On Friday, the state had reported 40 fresh coronavirus patients, most of them were migrant labourers.The total Covid-19 tally in Chhattisgarh has jumped to 216 in the state, of which 152 are active cases. Total 64 patients have been discharged after recovery.Also read: ‘States can develop their quarantine protocol’ - Govt on domestic travel “Most of the cases, which were detected in the last two days, were migrants labourers because they are returning back from all parts of the country. More than 4 lakh labourers are about to return to Chhattisgarh in the next one month, hence cases will definitely increase. We are all prepared for it,” health minister TS Singh Deo told Hindustan Times.On Saturday, ten cases were reported from Rajnandgaon district, nine each from Mungeli and Bilaspur districts, four each from Raigarh and Koriya districts and three each from Surguja andGaurela-Pendra-Marwahi (GPM) districts, the state medical bulletin released on Saturday night claimed.The rest of the cases were found in Balodabazar and Jashpur districts.A junior doctor at Chhattisgarh Institute of Medical Sciences (CIMS) Bilaspur was also found Covid-19 positive on Saturday, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-witnessed-biggest-single-day-spike-in-covid-19-cases-on-saturday/story-VBmwq2GdA8Bt71n2jXYneJ.html
24-05-2020||India||PM Modi’s humanity of washing feet of safai workers has vanished now, says Sanjay Raut||Taking a swipe at the Centre over the plight of migrant labourers amidst the coronavirus-induced lockdown, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday said the humanity shown by Prime Minister Narendra Modi by washing the feet of conservatory workers seems to have vanished now.In his weekly column published in the Sena mouthpiece ‘Saamana’, Raut said, “Prime Minister Modi had washed the feet of four conservatory workers in Varanasi and showed us the humanity. It seems this humanity has vanished in the last three months”.The PM had washed washed the feet of safai karamcharis (sanitation workers) during Kumbh Mela in Prayagraj last February as a mark of respect for their work.Raut, who is the executive editor of the ‘Saamana’ and chief whip of the Sena in Parliament, also sought to draw parallels between “politicisation” of displacement of Kashmiri Pandits and the plight of migrant labourers, who are bearing the brunt of the lockdown.“The issue of Kashmiri Pandits being forced to leave their homes and living as refugees in their own country has been politicised frequently. Today, some six crore migrant workers are forced to live the similar way,” he said.“Those who get angry with Adolf Hitler’s cruelty and treatment to Jews should tell us what have they done for these migrant workers. If the ruling government is not moved by the sufferings of migrant workers in all states then this Coronavirus has ended the humanity,” he said.Raut also targeted BJP leaders from Maharashtra over their “frequent” meeting with state governor B S Koshyari instead of interacting with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who heads the Shiv Sena.“The Opposition in Maharashtra is consistently claiming that the Thackeray-led government has failed. They should not forget that governments of Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat are actually the biggest failures in containing COVID-19 cases.“And since Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah hail from Gujarat, they cannot escape this responsibility,” he said.Raut said that everybody is sailing in the same boat as far as the current COVID crisis and its adverse impact on the economy are concerned. “We have to work together to contain the outbreak,” he added.Raut also slammed former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis of the BJP who had criticised NCP chief Sharad Pawar for questionning the “Atma Nirbhar” package in the latter’s recent letter to the prime minister.“Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis is getting agitated with letters of Sharad Pawar. Who has stopped him from writing letters to Prime Minister Modi?” he asked.Rut said the only agenda of Fadnavis is to dissolve the Sena-led tripartite government with the help of the governor.“If the Opposition keeps patients their lockdown will also end soon,” Raut said cryptically.He also said that Opposition party (read BJP) is ridiculed the most on social media “which is not a good sign”.Raut also asked Fadnavis to meet the CM and Sharad Pawar once.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-humanity-of-washing-feet-of-safai-workers-has-vanished-now-says-sanjay-raut/story-d9aGxTuiyczjOckMPkMAYM.html
24-05-2020||India||Kerala woman’s death after second snake bite turns out to be a murder||The death of a young Kerala woman, who suffered two snake bites in a span of two months, turned out to be a well-planned and executed murder, said Kerala police which probed the case after the deceased woman’s father filed a complaint alleging foul play. The shocking incident has got all ingredients of a crime thriller, said a senior official who was part of the investigating team.The crime branch said the woman’s husband, along with a local snake handler and another accomplice, was arrested in connection with the murder. S Uthra (25), a resident of Anchal in Kollam district, had suffered a second snake bite while she was undergoing treatment for the first. The woman’s parents had filed a police complaint against her husband and in-laws alleging foul play a week after her death.Also read: ‘PM Modi, Kejriwal wish Kerala CM on birthdayAccording to the police, the incident took place on May 7. Though many eyebrows were raised, the husband dodged the police and filed another complaint against her brother saying it was his doing to usurp the family property. Initially, it was a viper bite and the second time it was a cobra that proved fatal for Uthra. The woman suffered the first snake bite while at her husband’s house in March and the second one at her family house on May 7.The crime branch said the woman’s husband, Sooraj, who worked at a private bank, had brought a snake from Suresh, a local snake handler of the area after paying Rs 10,000. According to the officials, Sooraj took the snake to the house and reportedly let it loose in the bedroom. “It is a strange case. Three persons are in our custody. Since the investigation is on we can’t reveal details now,” said Kollam rural police superintendent S Harishankar.They said he was planning her murder for the last five months and the first bite was also part of his design to do away with her.In their complaint, the parents said Uthra had gone to bed with her husband, in the morning she was found unconscious. She was rushed to a nearby hospital where doctors said she died of a snake bite. When the room was examined, a big cobra snake was found which was later killed by Sooraj. The husband denied noticing the snake or witnessing any commotion.The parents alleged that their daughter was harassed quite often for dowry. They also said some ornaments that they presented during the wedding were missing from the locker. The couple was married two years ago and have a one-year-old son.According to the parents, the couple slept in an AC room and it was difficult to believe that Sooraj failed to notice the snake. The parents said their daughter was at the family house since she was undergoing treatment for the earlier bite. They also alleged that some snake handlers of the area were in touch with their son-in-law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-woman-s-death-after-second-snake-bite-turns-out-to-be-a-murder/story-XkZ3nRCmltnqWreopQtT9N.html
24-05-2020||India||Jammu, Srinagar airports get 4 more officers to handle incoming passengers||A day before domestic flight operations resume in the country, the Jammu and Kashmir government has appointed two senior officials to assist Jammu’s Deputy Commissioner Sushma Chauhan to make arrangements for handling incoming passengers.Commissioner of Jammu Municipal Corporation, Avny Lavasa and Vice Chairman Jammu Development Authority, Babila Rakwal will be the two officers assisting the Deputy Commissioner.Director Industries and Commerce, Kashmir, Mahmood Shah and Vice Chairman Lakes and Waterways Development Authority, Tufail Mattoo have also been assigned to assist Principal Secretary Housing and Urban Development (Nodal Officer, Srinagar Airport) in this regard.The officers will carry out their new assignments in addition to their own duties.The Jammu, Srinagar and Leh airports have made elaborate arrangements for the resumption of domestic flights.Passenger flights in the country were suspended with effect from March 25 when the nationwide lockdown came into force to check the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh had earlier announced that domestic flights would resume from May 25 onwards in a calibrated manner and the Airport Authority of India has issued Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) to the airport operators across the country.The Union home ministry has issued a 12-point guideline on domestic air, rail and bus travel that focuses on screening passengers for Covid-19 symptoms at boarding and exit points of airports and railway and bus stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-srinagar-airports-get-4-more-officers-to-handle-incoming-passengers/story-CVaoKYUZqM1R7pRGbxUFmK.html
24-05-2020||India||Hyundai’s three employees at Chennai plant test positive for Covid-19||Hyundai Motor India Ltd (HMIL) on Sunday said its three employees at Chennai-based manufacturing plant have tested positive for Covid-19.The second largest carmaker in the country had resumed operations at Irungattukottai-based plant (near Chennai) on May 8.“In the first week of our plant operations, three of our employees have shown mild symptoms of cough and cold and were immediately asked to meet medical expert team for further evaluation. They subsequently tested positive for Covid-19 and immediate medical attention was provided to them,” HMIL said in a statement.All three employees are recovering fast towards normalcy and as per the safety protocol, essential information was shared with the district health authorities, it added.In addition to that all the necessary measures are being taken for contact tracing, self-isolation and complete sanitation, the South Korean firm said.Well-being of employees is of utmost priority to the company and as a responsible brand it is adhering to all the guidelines set by the Centre, state and district health authorities, HMIL said.On Saturday, Maruti Suzuki India (MSI) had stated that an employee at its Manesar-based manufacturing plant has tested positive for Covid-19.The company is also investigating a second case of infection at the facility.MSI had re-opened Manesar facility earlier this month after around 50 days of closure due to coronavirus-led lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyundai-s-three-employees-at-chennai-plant-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-izHTSEvCv18hlOKPDnHg1M.html
24-05-2020||India||Coal mining underway in Assam elephant reserve before wildlife board clearance: RTI query||Last month, the National Board of Wild Life (NBWL) recommended coal mining to be allowed in a portion of the Dehing Patkai Elephant Reserve in Assam. But a right to information (RTI) query has revealed mining in the area was already underway even before the approval came.NBWL allowed Coal India Limited (CIL) to conduct opencast coal mining in 98.59 hectares of the reserve forest. CIL had been carrying out mining in 57 hectares of the reserve forest and the fresh recommendation allowed it to do mining in another 41 hectares, which was unbroken.But reply to a RTI query by environment activist Rohit Choudhury has revealed mining related work has already begun in 17 hectares (or nearly 39% area) of the 41 hectares claimed by CIL to be unbroken. “It was confirmed that about a 9 hectare area out of 41.39 hectares has already been broken up and operated and another approximately 7 hectare area has been cleared,” mentions a November, 2019 site inspection report by Shillong office of union ministry for environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC).North Eastern Coalfields, a subsidiary of CIL had got lease for coal mining over an area of 4 sq miles in the Saleki area of Dehing Patkai for a period of 30 years from 1973. Though the said lease expired in 2003, CIL applied for lease/diversion of forest land only in 2012 seeking permission for coal extraction in 98.59 hectares.CIL mentioned that 12.93 hectares of the total area had been broken up till 2003, 44.27 hectares broken between 2003 and 2012 and 41.39 hectares to be broken for coal mining after seeking approval.Prior to site visit by MoEFCC team in October 2019, CIL admitted it was already conducting mining in 57.20 hectares (12.93 till 2003 and another 44.27 till 2012) of the total area without obtaining mandatory approval from the Centre and in violation of both state and central laws.Site inspection revealed that besides illegal coal mining by CIL, local residents were also illegally extracting coal in the area through rat-hole mines. According to CIL figures, nearly 12500 tonnes of coal was being extracted from the area on an average every month during 2019-20.The inspection report by WI Yatbon, deputy inspector general of forests, Shillong office of MoEFCC concluded that the North Eastern Coalfields of CIL had done illegal mining in the areas, which had been broken, for years and also in areas it claimed to be unbroken.The decision to allow mining taken by NBWL’s standing committee, chaired by union environment minister Prakash Javadekar, on April 17 through video conference (because of the lockdown) has irked activists and environmentalists.“The clearance was given hurriedly via video conference without proper discussion. The Assam government should have objected to the move, but it seems they are adamant on destroying the environment and forests of the state,” said Rohit Choudhury, a RTI and environment activist.An online campaign opposing NBWL’s decision and proposed coal mining is underway now with hashtags #SAVEDEHINGPATKAI and #IAMDEHINGPATKAI trending on Facebook and Twitter. In view of the campaign and the opposition to the mining move, Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal directed forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya on May 20 to visit the area and take stock of the ground situation.“The Assam government is committed to protect the environment and biodiversity of the state and will not compromise on its stand in the name of development initiatives,” the CM said in a statement.Fresh coal mining is expected to have a negative effect on flora and fauna in Dehing Patkai elephant reserve, which is part of Dehing Patkai wildlife sanctuary spread across 111 sq km in Dibrugarh and Tinsukia districts. It is said to be the largest tropical lowland rainforest in India.Besides elephants, leopards, hoolock gibbons, pangolins and bears, Dehing Patkai is also home to over 200 species of birds, various replies and many species of butterflies and orchids. The habitats of these species as well as foraging routes of elephants are expected to be affected by the coal mining.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coal-mining-underway-in-assam-elephant-reserve-before-wildlife-board-clearance-rti-query/story-95YaVdGpEVKjEbxkriI1UM.html
24-05-2020||India||Follow guidelines, Hardeep Puri tells flyers as flight ops set to resume||Ahead of domestic flights resuming on Monday, aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri reminded flyers to strictly follow the latest travel guidelines issued by the Union home ministry.“Latest guidelines on domestic & international travel have been issued by @MoHFW_INDIA. I hope travellers strictly follow these self-regulatory norms & strengthen India’s hands in this fight against COVID19. Remember, each one of us is a soldier against the pandemic,” Puri tweeted.The home ministry has issued a 12-point guideline for domestic travel by air train and buses. Under the guidelines, dos and don’ts shall be provided along with tickets to the travelers by the agencies concerned and all passengers shall be advised to download the Argoya Setu app on their mobile phones.“The states/UTs shall ensure that all passengers shall undergo thermal screening at the point of departure and only asymptomatic passengers shall be allowed to board the flight/train/bus,” the guideline said.During boarding and travel, all passengers shall use masks and follow “hand hygiene, respiratory hygiene and environmental hygiene.”Airports/railway stations/bus stations should be regularly sanitized/disinfected and there should be thermal screening at exit points.“Asymptomatic passengers will be permitted to go with the advice that they shall self-monitor their health for 14 days. In case they develop any symptoms, they shall inform the district surveillance officer or the state/national call centre (1075),” it said.Those found symptomatic will be isolated and taken to the nearest health facility and assessed for clinical severity and those with moderate or severe symptoms will be admitted to a dedicated Covid health facility and managed accordingly.Those having mild symptoms will be given the option of home isolation or isolated in Covid Care Centre as appropriate and tested as per ICMR protocol. If positive, they will continue in Covid Care Centre and will be managed as per clinical protocol. If negative, the passenger may be allowed to go home, isolate himself/herself and self-monitor his/her health for further 7 days. In case of any symptoms, they have been advised to district surveillance officer or the state/national call centre (1075).Although the guidelines are extensive, a note at the end of it said state governments can develop their own protocol with regards to quarantine and isolation as per their assessment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/follow-guidelines-hardeep-puri-tells-flyers-as-flight-ops-set-to-resume/story-QkWcikolVLpFE5aNhFvWjO.html
24-05-2020||India||Cops who thrashed man in Madhya Pradesh suspended after video goes viral||Two constables of Madhya Pradesh Police were suspended and an inquiry ordered after a video clip showed the policemen mercilessly beating a man in Chhindwara. The man alleged to be in an intoxicated state.Head constable Krishna Dingre and constable Ashish posted at Piplyanarayanwar police outpost under Lodhikheda police station in Chhindwara.They were suspended on Sunday. Earlier on Saturday, they were shifted from field duty to the police lines.The man who was allegedly beaten up was taken to the district hospital for medical examination after which he was dropped at his residence. His condition is fine, said police.Chhindwara is home turf of state Congress president and ex-chief minister Kamal Nath and his son and Member of Parliament Nakul Nath.The video triggered massive reaction on social media with many users demanding harsher punishment for the cops.“Unwatchable! Seeing how brutally these cops are thrashing this man these police officers not only be dismissed from service but jailed also. They deserve same treatment,” said a Twitter user Abu Abdullah.“In 70 years, our governments have given to us same British police,” said another social media user.The man who was thrashed, has been identified as Nanu, a mason and resident of Piplyanarayanwar in Chhindwara town. The 30-year-old was allegedly beaten up more than 10 days ago. One of the two policemen was seen hitting the man with his lathi (cane) in his head and other parts even after he fell unconscious and was seen not moving while being hit by the constable.Another video shows policemen dropping off Nanu at his residence by a police department vehicle at the night and his old mother supporting him to take inside home.A man was heard saying, “Go and sleep. Come to the police outpost tomorrow when your alcohol hangover is over.” Additional Superintendent of Police, Chhindwara, Shashank Garg said, “The video is old in which head constable Krishna Dongre and constable Ashish were seen beating a man. Sub-divisional officer of police SP Singh has been deputed with an inquiry into it. As we have learnt the man was used to creating a ruckus in intoxicated state in his locality and police had been called to control him in the past.”Superintendent of Police (SP), Chhindwara Vivek Agrawal said, “The incident is unfortunate. As we came to know about it, I immediately suspended the police personnel and ordered an inquiry into the incident. There will be exemplary punishment against them if they are found guilty in the inquiry.”When asked about injuries caused to the man the SP said, “No serious injury was found in medical examination. However, since the incident is old it might be a reason why no serious injury was found.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cops-seen-thrashing-man-on-camera-in-madhya-pradesh-video-goes-viral/story-km6U8eTMoKWJTKM8nNwHOK.html
24-05-2020||India||Tamil Nadu issues additional guidelines for domestic air travellers including 14-day quarantine||Tamil Nadu has come up with additional guidelines for people who plan to fly down to the state from Monday onwards when flight services stopped due to the coronavirus pandemic will resume after two months.This comes after Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had written to aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri, requesting him to avoid domestic flights into the state till May 31.The ministry of civil aviation has also issued instructions to be followed by passengers and major stakeholders, including airport operators, for compliance. The state’s standard operating procedures (SOPs) will be in addition to the instructions of the civil aviation ministry and include a 14-day home quarantine for asymptomatic fliers and institutional isolation for those without facilities for home quarantine. All domestic air travellers coming into Tamil Nadu will also have to register themselves on the TNePass portal, the state government said, according to news agency ANI.Karnataka, Punjab, and Kerala have decided on a 14-day quarantine for domestic passengers, with variations. Karnataka’s is restricted to travellers from areas with a high incidence such as Delhi; Punjab and Kerala have mandated a 14-day quarantine for anyone entering the state on any means of transport.Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Telangana are also considering quarantines.Following are the guidelines issued for domestic air travellers coming to Tamil Nadu:1. It is mandatory for all the domestic air travellers flying into Tamil Nadu to register their details online in TNePass Portal. After obtaining the flight tickets, the travellers shall register their details TNe-pass portal following the link https://tnepass.tnega.org duly selecting the airport of arrival in Tamil Nadu.[in TN epass portal select Flight Train registration, fill in their details and Submit)2. The passenger while applying for TN epass shall give the declaration to the following effect, for getting TN epass:* I/We am/are not residing in any containment zone* I/We am/are not suffering from any fever cough any respiratory distress.* I/We am/are not under quarantine.* If I/We develop any of the above-mentioned symptoms we shall contact the concerned health authorities immediately.* I/We have not tested COVID-19 positive in last two months.* I/We am/are eligible to travel as per the extant norms.* I/We make my mobile number/contact details available to the TN epass.* I/We understand that if I/We undertake the air journey on false information, without meeting the eligibility criteria, I/We would be liable to penal action.* I/We undertake to adhere to the health protocol and quarantine norms prescribed by the Government of Tamil Nadu.3. If more than one person travels in a group, the details of all persons shall be entered using the add family member option in the TNePass Portal.4. Travel permit will be issued with a QR Code in the registered mobile number email.5. The airline staff shall insist on the details of entry pass obtained from IN e pass before issuing the boarding pass. A separate request has been made to the airlines and operators Regarding this.6. Travellers can use own vehicle or rented vehicle for travel from the airport to their home. The vehicle number must be indicated in the portal7. Travellers on arrival in Tamil Nadu airport shall show the registration of TN e-Pass at the registration desk at the airport. Passengers who are without an entry in TN ePass will not be permitted to move out without making entry.District Collectors shall make available necessary infrastructure in the exit gates of airports to check and take followup action on this.8. After undergoing medical screening for any symptoms of Covid-19, asymptomatic persons shall undergo home quarantine for 14 days. Travellers who register for institutional quarantine shall be sent for institutional quarantine (government or paid facility)9. All persons entering the State shall remain under home quarantine for 14 days from the date of arrival. However, if the individual does not have facilities for home quarantine, he will be sent to institutional quarantine. He should indicate the same in the TNePass portal.10. Pick up vehicles for arriving passengers will be permitted to enter Airport with one person (excluding driver of the vehicle) at a designated place subject to social distancing norms. If the persons who pick up the passenger comes into physical contact with the traveller, they shall also remain under Home Quarantine for 14 days.Infrastructure requirements at entry airports:a) Temperature checking must be carried out with Infrared thermometerb) There should be a proper queue system to reach the desks.e) All luggage should be disinfected by the airport authoritiesd) All the officials who directly deal with passengers shall use PPES, masks and protective geare) All symptomatic passengers to be sent to Isolation facilities in a designated ambulancef) Staff must be exclusively posted for a period of two weeks for Airport surveillance and they must undergo two weeks home quarantine upon finishing dutiesg) Any COVID 19 related symptoms in health staff must be promptly reported to state and they must be tested with RT PCRh) All staff who are directly dealing with passengers shall use PPE/Masksi) Passengers must be made to walk to the health desks in a group of 20 maintaining proper social distancingj) Wheel Chair facility be made available for the needy.k) Public address systems to Airports may be used for informing the passengers of the details.l) Airport staff shall follow all the Covid-19 protocolProcedure for going out of Tamil Nadu:All domestic air travellers shall undergo medical screening as stipulated by Airport Authority and persons with symptoms will be sent to a health facility for testing and treatment. Only asymptomatic persons will be allowed to board the flight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-issues-additional-guidelines-for-domestic-air-travellers-including-14-day-quarantine/story-0oTGuMWxhr1OEcEfn9gZoJ.html
24-05-2020||India||BJP expels Karnal leader Chander Parkash Kathuria for 6 years||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has expelled its leader from Haryana’s Karnal, Chander Parkash Kathuria, from the primary membership of the party for six years.However, the reason behind Kathuria’s expulsion from the BJP was not mentioned in the letter issued by state unit president Subhash Barala. The action against Kathuria was taken two days after a video surfaced on social media showing him allegedly falling down from the balcony of an apartment in Chandigarh’s Sector 63 while trying to come down with the help of a piece of cloth. “Yes, he has been expelled from the party for six years on the basis of a video, which raised questions on his character,” Jagmohan Anand, the BJP’s Karnal unit district president, said.Kathuria did not respond to this reporter’s phone calls and text messages for his reaction over his expulsion from the BJP.He reportedly fractured his foot while trying to come down the balcony and was admitted at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) in Chandigarh.The reason behind his attempts to escape from the balcony could not be ascertained yet.Sources, however, said he was visiting a woman for some official work and another person visited the flat. Kathuria did not want to run into him so he tried to come down from the second-floor balcony but lost his grip and fell down.The 51-year-old leader, the former chairperson of Sugerfed, was a special invitee of the BJP’s state executive committee.Kathuria, who hails from Sector 13 in Karnal, had sought BJP ticket from the Karnal Lok Sabha seat in the last parliamentary election. He had also contested the assembly election from Karnal unsuccessfully on BJP ticket in 2009.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-expels-karnal-leader-chander-parkash-kathuria-for-6-years/story-ggK79zXwwDSHJSDh1MyhZM.html
24-05-2020||India||‘States can develop their own Covid-19 quarantine, isolation protocol’: Govt’s on domestic travel||The government on Sunday, in its release on domestic travel, said that state governments will be able to “develop their own quarantine and isolation protocols as per their assessment”. This came amid concerns raised by various states as the government lifted curbs on air travel and is set to run 200 passenger trains from June 1 amid Covid-19 lockdown. States like Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Karnataka, among others, maintained that passengers arriving via domestic flights will need to be quarantined. It is comprehensive list of guidelines for passengers, undertaking domestic travel via flights, trains or through inter-state bus services amid Covid-19 lockdown, the Ministry of Health stated that all domestic travellers are required to follow social distancing at all times and wear protective masks. Aarogya Setu mobile app should be installed by all passengers. Asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to go home, observe their health for 14 days and report in case symptoms arise. Passengers displaying mild symptoms will be given the option of home isolation or to isolate at Covid-19 Care Centres at various public and private facilities.  The guidelines come in the wake of resumption of domestic air services from Monday and with 100 pair of trains resuming service on June 1. Also read: Oxford’s Covid-19 vaccine trial has 50% chance of success, says project leaderHere’s taking a quick look at the guidelines:1) Dos and Don’ts shall be provided along with tickets to the travellers by the agencies concerned.2) All passengers shall be advised to download the Aarogya Setu app on their mobile devices.3) Suitable announcement about Covid-19 including precautionary measures to be followed shall be made at airports/railway station/bus terminals and in flights/trains/bus.4) The States/UTs shall ensure that all passengers undergo thermal screening at the point of departure and only asymptomatic passengers are allowed to board the flight/train/bus.5) During boarding and travel, all passengers shall use face covers/mask. They will also follow hand hygiene, respiratory hygiene and maintain environmental hygiene. With domestic civil aviation starting on 25th May, here are the latest guidelines on domestic travel issued by @MoHFW_INDIA. Travellers are requested to strictly follow these self-regulatory norms & help in India's fight against #COVIDー19 #WeShallOvercome#IndiaFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/3xwkazvvUc6) At airports/railway stations/ bus terminals required measures to ensure social distancing shall be taken.7) Airports/railway stations/bus terminals should be regularly sanitized/disinfected and availability of soaps and sanitizers shall be ensured.8) Thermal screening at exit point shall be arranged.9) Asymptomatic passengers will be permitted to go with the advice that they shall self-monitor their health for 14 days. In case, they develop any symptoms, they shall inform the district surveillance officer or the state/national call centre (1075).10) Those found symptomatic will be isolated and taken to the nearest health facility. They will be assessed for clinical severity at the health facility.11) Those having moderate or severe symptoms will be admitted to dedicated Covid-19 health facilities and managed accordingly.12) Those having mild symptoms will be given the option of home isolation or to isolate in the Covid Care Centre (both public & private facilities) as appropriate and tested as per ICMR protocol. If positive, they will continue at Covid Care Centre and will be managed as per clinical protocol.If negative, the passenger may be allowed to go home, isolate himself/herself and self monitor his/her health for further 7 days. In case, any symptoms develop they shall inform the district surveillance officer or the state/national call center (1075).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-can-develop-their-own-covid-19-quarantine-isolation-protocols-says-health-ministry-in-guidelines-on-domestic-travel/story-BBxvSfy6unK74T0PPTI7lO.html
24-05-2020||India||India will have to play key role in mass production of coronavirus vaccine: France||India will have an important role to play in the mass production of medicines and vaccines for coronavirus infection once the treatment for the deadly disease is found, French Ambassador Emmanuel Lenain has said. Dozens of researchers across the globe are racing against time to come out with a vaccine for coronavirus that has infected nearly five million people and killed over 3,30,000 globally. “It is very important for states to coordinate if we want the COVID-19 vaccine and/or medicines to be produced and distributed equitably worldwide. India will have an important role to play as a producer of medicines and vaccines,” French Ambassador Emmanuel Lenain told PTI in an interview. India is a leading manufacturer of vaccines and generic drugs globally. Several research institutes in India are also working on separate programmes to find a vaccine for the coronavirus. The French Ambassador’s comments also came in the backdrop of efforts by a large number of countries as well as the 27-nation European Union to ensure equitable access to any vaccine or medicine for treatment of coronavirus infection through their mass production under voluntary patenting. The issue figured prominently at the recent two-day conference of the World Health Organisation where many countries pressed for making the vaccine available to all countries and not only to those who have deep pockets. “France and India have supported the European resolution (at the WHO) for universal, timely and equitable access to all necessary products for countering the pandemic, and underscored the role of extensive immunisation against COVID-19 as a global public good,” he said. Since the coronavirus crisis broke out, India has been pitching for a coordinated global approach in containing the pandemic. India has already supplied 446 million Hydroxychloroquine tablets and 1.54 billion Paracetamol tablets to 133 countries, drawing praise from a number of global leaders. Last week, India’s Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said the coronavirus pandemic has reaffirmed India’s role as a “pharmacy of the world”. In the interview, Lenain also said that the coronavirus crisis has shown that France and India’s push for multilateralism is the right option for the current century. “None of the major issues that structure the future of the world like healthcare and environment can be dealt with in an isolated manner,” he said. “I am delighted that the reform of the WHO, which France encourages, has found favour in India. India and France have coordinated well and continue to do so. However, we can do much more together,” he said. The COVID-19 crisis has shown the importance of international cooperation on humanitarian issues and the two strategic partners have been working together under the G20 as well as in the WHO on finding ways to check the spread of the coronavirus, the ambassador said. He also said that France is “very grateful” to India for allowing the export of certain critical drugs for treating patients in intensive care. Asked whether there was a need for global investigation to find the origin of the coronavirus, Lenain said, “Post-crisis, there will, of course, be a time for analysing the alert mechanism to see how it can be improved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-will-have-to-play-key-role-in-mass-production-of-coronavirus-vaccine-france/story-SXl3ANcHo2IOvmZbR0xX9N.html
24-05-2020||India||People’s discipline, lockdown helped keep Maharashtra’s Covid-19 numbers in control: CM Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday thanked the people of the state for maintaining discipline during the lockdown to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Uddhav Thackeray also said that the lockdown has kept the number of Covid-19 cases in the state, is the worst-affected in the country, in check.Maharashtra on Saturday detected 2,608 new Covid-19 cases, the second-highest single-day spike, taking the state’s tally to a staggering 47,190, according to state health department data. The death toll in the state has climbed to 1,577.“There was a projection that Maharashtra could have 1.15 lakh coronavirus positive cases by May end. But, currently, we have 33,786 Covid-19 cases, around 13,404 have recovered. This is thanks to the lockdown and discipline maintained by you,” Uddhav Thackeray said during a Facebook Live session.“The cases will increase now. We are preparing and have created hospital infrastructure for it. By the end of May, we will make 14,000 beds available and currently, we have already created around 7,000 beds, including 3,000 in our field hospitals,” he added.Saturday was the seventh consecutive day when the state reported more than 2,000 new Covid-19 cases, according to state health department data.Mumbai reported 1,566 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, slightly lower than the count reported on Friday, taking the financial capital’s tally to 28,817. The capital city’s death toll is at 949 so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-s-discipline-lockdown-helped-keep-maharashtra-s-covid-19-numbers-in-control-cm-uddhav-thackeray/story-02W4yTpNyFuPfhAnIZJCrL.html
24-05-2020||India||‘Fight against Covid-19 to be tougher now, prepared with extra health facilities’: Maharashtra CM||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday held an online briefing on the prevailing coronavirus situation in the state and said that the fight against Covid-19 is going to be a “tougher one” but the administration is prepared with extra medical facilities.Thackeray said that it was wrong to impose lockdown suddenly. On the lockdown deadline of May 31, he said that “we can’t end it all at once”Thackeray thanked the people of Maharashtra for showing their discipline and following the lockdown. He said that the Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra were projected to be around 1.15 lakh by May end but currently, “we have 33,786 Covid-19 cases, around 13,404 have recovered,” he said. “This is due to the lockdown and discipline maintained by you all,” the chief minister said.  Also read: 67% of India’s Covid-19 cases come from 4 statesThe fight against COVID19 is going to be tougher now but there is no need to panic as we are prepared with extra health facilities: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray as positive cases cross 47,000 in the stateThe number of active patients is 33,786 and over 13,000 have recovered. pic.twitter.com/siCrEZcPjnThackeray cautioned against the rise in Covid-19 in the state and said that the administration is preparing and creating hospital infrastructure for an increase in load of Covid-19 cases.“By the end of May, we will make 14,000 beds available, currently we have already created around 7,000 beds including 3,000 in our field hospitals,” he said. The chief minister also cautioned against the approaching monsoon season which is likely to trigger a host of related ailments and seasonal infections. Maharashtra continues to bear the brunt of increasing coronavirus infections. Till Sunday morning, as per the Ministry of Health, the state reported 47,190 Covid-19 cases - highest in the country. Covid-19 fatalities in Maharashtra have risen to 1,577 while more than 13,000 coronavirus patients have beaten the infection and have been discharged from hospitals across the state. Mumbai, Thane, Pune are the worst-hit districts in Maharashtra. Covid-19 cases have crossed the 28,000-mark in Mumbai while 949 patients succumbed to death due to coronavirus in the country’s financial capital. Thane has reported over 6,000 cases of infections and 85 fatalities. In Pune, Covid-19 cases have jumped to 5,347 while 257 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fight-against-covid-19-to-be-tougher-now-prepared-with-extra-health-facilities-maharashtra-chief-minister-uddhav-thackeray/story-Vx6kjBYdrpcjLsSwI8zJcN.html
24-05-2020||India||Delhi’s coronavirus tally crosses 13000, health minister says ‘41 Covid-19 zones de-contained’||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday said that 508 new Covid-19 infections were reported in the national capital till May 23 midnight. The coronavirus tally in Delhi now stands at 13,418, while 261 people have died due to coronavirus in Delhi, the minister added. Jain also talked to reporters about the Covid-19 containment zones in the national capital, stating that the number of containment zones now stands at 83.House numbers 600-800 in Hari Nagar, Rani Bagh and two houses at street number 8, Shastri Park have been declared as new containment zones. “Till now, 41 zones have been de-contained,” Jain said.  Also read: 67% of India’s Covid-19 cases come from 4 statesWith 508 new cases, the total number of COVID19 positive cases in Delhi is now 13,418 (till midnight of 23rd May), total death toll 261: Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain pic.twitter.com/3dZDjOJ6lLEarlier this week, the South Delhi district administration added two more areas to the list of Covid-19 containment zones in Delhi. South Delhi’s Zamrudpur in Greater Kailash and Dakshinpuri were added as Covid-19 containment zones. This comes when the Delhi government has partially lifted restrictions on movement across the national capital amid lockdown 4.0 in a bid to restart economic activity. Delhi: The number of containment zones in Delhi now stands at 87 with the addition of house numbers 600-800 Hari Nagar, Rani Bagh, and two houses at street number 8, Shastri Park. Till now, 41 zones have been de-contained.Public transport, barring Delhi Metro, has resumed operation in Delhi on conditions. Standalone shops have also lifted shutters. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal urged citizens to show discipline amid the coronavirus crisis ensure that the virus does not spread further. He said that no relaxations will be provided in Covid-19 containment zones. Large gatherings, places of worship, malls, educational institutes, theatres, dine-in restaurants, barbershops and salons are still shut in Delhi amid the fourth phase of the lockdown. “Vulnerable people” such as the elderly, pregnant women, children are urged to avoid stepping out of their homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-coronavirus-tally-breaches-13-000-mark-health-minister-says-41-covid-19-zones-de-contained/story-fSyn6xTCeFjTKx33zL1SNP.html
24-05-2020||India||Taliban playing good cop, bad cop: Experts on Kashmir comment||A recent statement by the Taliban on non-interference in internal matters of other countries (with reference to Kashmir) is being seen as a tactical one ahead of intra-Afghan dialogue.“In my personal view, they are playing good cop, bad cop. Taliban want to cut the support base of the Ghani government ahead of the intra-Afghanistan dialogue and want to demoralise Ghani government by opening some sort of dialogue with India which has kept a distance from any talks with Taliban,” Tilak Deveshwar, a member of National Security Advisory Board, told news agency ANI.“No surprise, if the Taliban want to engage with India. This kind of overture is logical. They would like to assuage India’s concern over Kashmir, which in turn brings Pakistan into the picture,” said Uday Bhaskar, Director, Society of Policy Studies.“It appears that one group within Taliban, more moderate, malleable is seeking to create a kind of tentative political space to encourage Delhi to engage with a group that I am afraid is synonymous with terrorism,” added Bhaskar.So far, India has stayed away from dialogue with the Taliban. US Special envoy Zalmay Khalilzad also recently urged India to open direct talks with the Taliban.“Moot point is the way the Taliban played a double game with the international community, it’s playing same with India. They are trying to manufacture a narrative that they are a reasonable face which is Afghan-based and will not interfere in the internal affair of any country. However, to believe that the Taliban have severed all ties with Al Qaeda and ISIS will be delusional,” said Sushant Sareen, Senior Fellow at think tank Observer Research Foundation (ORF).Last week, the Taliban had denied claims on social media that it could join Pakistan-sponsored terrorism in Kashmir, underlining that the Taliban was clear that it “does not interfere in internal affairs of other countries”.“The statement published in the media about Taaliban joining Jihad in Kashmir is wrong…. The policy of the Islamic Emirate is clear that it does not interfere in the internal affairs of other countries.” Suhail Shaheen, the spokesperson for the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan, as the political wing of Taliban calls itself, tweeted last Monday.The strong clarification came a day after officials monitoring social media noted a spike in posts around claims that a Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid had said it was impossible to be friends with India unless the Kashmir issue is resolved. The spokesperson was also claimed to have said that the Taliban would, after capturing power in Kabul, “capture Kashmir from infidels also”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taliban-playing-good-cop-bad-cop-experts-on-kashmir-comment/story-m5DK3uKdoC4Toc3Rlq0RUK.html
24-05-2020||India||Four associates of LeT militants arrested in J-K’s Budgam district||Security forces on Sunday arrested four associates of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militants in Budgam district of Jammu and Kashmir, an official said.“Police in Budgam along with security forces have arrested four terrorist associates including top terror associate of proscribed terror outfit LeT and recovered arms and ammunition from their possession,” a police spokesperson said. The arrested persons have been identified as Waseem Ganie,  Farooq Ahmad Dar, Mohammad Yasin and Azharudin Mir, he said. The spokesperson said incriminating material including arms and ammunition was recovered from their possession.As per the police records, the arrested persons were involved in providing logistical support and shelter to active terrorists of LeT operating in the area, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-associates-of-let-militants-arrested-in-j-k-s-budgam-district/story-cuEMfqJNPSK6HkMTW3iaeJ.html
24-05-2020||India||Delhi court allows ED to interrogate Christian Michel||A Delhi court has allowed the Enforcement Directorate to interrogate alleged middleman Christian Michel at the Tihar central jail here, where he is lodged in connection with the AgustaWestland VVIP chopper scam case.Special Judge Pulastya Pramachala on Saturday allowed the ED to interrogate Michel on May 25 and 26 in the jail premises.The court allowed the ED’s plea moved by the agency’s special public prosecutor N K Matta after he submitted during a hearing held through video conferencing that the accused was required to be confronted with certain documents during its ongoing probe in the case.Michel, extradited from Dubai, was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on December 22, 2018.On January 5, 2019 Michel was sent to judicial custody in the ED case. He is also lodged in judicial custody in the CBI case related to the scam.He was arrested in the UAE and extradited to India on December 4, 2018. The next day, he was produced before the court which allowed his custodial interrogation by the CBI.  Later, he was arrested by the ED.Michel is among the three alleged middlemen being probed in the case by the ED and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The others are Guido Haschke and Carlo Gerosa.The CBI has alleged that there was an estimated loss of Euro 398.21 million (about Rs 2,666 crore) to the exchequer in the deal that was signed on February 8, 2010 for the supply of VVIP choppers worth Euro 556.262 million.The ED, in its charge sheet filed against Michel in June 2016, had alleged that he received EUR 30 million (about Rs 225 crore) from AgustaWestland.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-court-allows-ed-to-interrogate-christian-michel/story-S5uAl41cYdi5OU9TP2H39I.html
24-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Spike in Covid-19 cases in eastern UP, all 75 districts affected and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Spike in Covid-19 cases in eastern Uttar Pradesh, all 75 districts affectedIndia saw its biggest spike of Covid-19 cases on Sunday with 6,767 new infections reported in the last 24 hours, taking the nationwide tally to 1,31,868. The number of Covid-19 cases saw a spike in Uttar Pradesh too, with the state’s tally reaching 6,017. Read more‘11 rail passengers from Mumbai test positive for Covid-19 in Goa, active cases at 50’: State health ministerGoa health minister Vishwajit Rane on Sunday said that 11 passengers who arrived from Mumbai on Saturday via Rajdhani Express have been reported positive for Covid-19. With fresh Covid-19 infections, the number of active coronavirus cases in Goa has jumped to 50, Rane said in a tweet. Read moreAnother tiger carcass found in Assam’s Kaziranga; fourth death this yearAuthorities in Assam’s Kaziranga National Park have found the carcass of a semi-adult male, taking the number of tiger deaths in the park to four this year. P Sivakumar, director of the park, said the carcass of the two-year-old tiger was found in the Burapahar range of the 430 sq km park, the biggest habitat of one-horned rhinos in the world. Read moreIsraeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu’s corruption trial opens today in Jerusalem courtThe corruption trial of Benjamin Netanyahu opens on Sunday in a Jerusalem court, where he will become the first serving Israeli prime minister to face criminal prosecution, in a case he calls a political witch-hunt. Read moreReliance’s JioMart website goes live, expands services to more citiesReliance Jio has launched its new e-commerce portal, JioMart, and started accepting orders in dozens of metropolitan cities amid the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown to control the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read more‘Take stress out of Virat Kohli’s life’: Former India pacer bats for Rohit Sharma as captain in T20IsFormer India fast bowler Atul Wassan believes India should consider having split captaincy as leading the team across all three formats could be a load on one single player. Virat Kohli currently leads India in Tests, ODIs and in T20Is as well. Read moreApple’s AirPods Studio headphones may launch next month during WWDC conferenceWe have heard a lot about Apple’s over the ear headphones (tipped as AirPods Studio) in the past few months. From its interchangeable components to price, the leaks and analysts have predicted it all. Read morePeople urging Hrithik Roshan to watch a dance video to hug curtain impressing Anand Mahindra, best viral videos of the weekThe Internet is a place which, among other things, is a treasure trove for all sorts of viral videos. While some of these videos may make you gasp in wonder, others will leave you emotional and teary-eyed. Read moreEid 2020: Muslims share how coronavirus lockdown will affect their holy celebrationsUAE-based software engineer Fariyal Shaikh shows me a picture of her six-year-old Ayesha’s henna, “She asked for Corona 2020 and Ana (from Disney’s Frozen) for henna this time, so I bought a stencil.’’ Read moreWatch: Rejected by several hospitals, 73-yr-old woman recovers from Covid-19 in Mumbai||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-spike-in-covid-19-cases-in-eastern-up-all-75-districts-affected-and-all-the-latest-news/story-QAoWAZiGodiA035wz1kTGL.html
24-05-2020||India||Bombay High Court orders blocking of objectionable video on social media||The Bombay High Court on Friday directed the police to immediately block a video clip which contained inflammatory content and was allegedly aimed at creating communal unrest. The video clip was posted on some social media sites by a purported supporter of All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM). The bench comprising justices RD Dhanuka and Abhay Ahuja was hearing a petition filed by a city resident named Imran Khan.Khan moved the high court seeking direction to the authorities to immediately delete the hate speech video uploaded by one Abu Faisal, who claims to be an AIMIM supporter. Khan sought appropriate action against Faizal in accordance with law for uploading the objectionable video. He has also sought a direction to the authorities to permanently block Faizal’s access to social media.Khan’s counsel, advocate Vivek Shukla, pointed out the wild statements made by Abu Faizal in the video. Faizal, in the video, claimed that the media has been directed to target Muslims and defame Islam under the garb of the coronavirus pandemic. Shukla expressed apprehension that the video uploaded on social media would create hatred between Hindus and Muslims. Shukla said that no action has been taken by the police although a complaint was made by the petitioner.According to Khan, in the video, it has been alleged that a vicious campaign is led by the RSS in the country to supposedly control the Muslim population. Khan said in the video, Faizal is seen provoking and encouraging his Muslim brethren to assault non-muslim doctors. The bench said the petition prima facie indicated serious allegations about an inflammatory speech by said Abu Faizal for creating hatred between Hindu and Muslim communities, and against the police for inaction.The court has now directed the Mumbai Police to look into the allegations and the video clip available on Youtube and Facebook. The police have been directed to file an affidavit in reply in a week. It also directed the authorities to investigate Faizal if the police find any substance against him based on the allegations made by the petitioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-high-court-orders-blocking-of-objectionable-video-on-social-media/story-nyqCZt0FjN0myzWHem1u4L.html
24-05-2020||India||‘I can apologise or you can cut off my head’: Mamata Banerjee on protests over Cyclone Amphan response||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has urged people in areas hit by Cyclone Amphan to have patience as the administration is working tirelessly to restore water and power supply. She maded the remarks after protests erupted in state capital Kolkata and other cyclone-hit areas.“This is huge disaster. Our teams are working very seriously. At least 1,000 teams are working in the state. Along with them local youths are also working,” she said on Saturday evening.“The police, besides maintaining lockdown and law and order, are also helping in the restoration process,” Banerjee said at the state secretariat.Cyclone Amphan has claimed 86 lives in West Bengal and caused havoc in at least 14 districts, mainly in South 24 Parganas, Kolkata, North 24 Parganas and East Midnapore districts.Many areas in south Kolkata are without power since the cyclone ravaged the state. So, there were protests in many parts of the city - from Behala in the south to Belgharia in north Kolkata. The protests continued for the second consecutive day on Saturday. The protesters, many of whom were women, said they are under extreme hardship as there was no electricity and water for the past three days and repeated calls to power utilities CESC and WBSEDCL went unanswered.In a few places, clashes between the police and angry protesters were also reported.When asked about the situation of electricity in Kolkata, Banerjee said, “I know you are inconvenienced, I can apologise to you, or you can cut off my head. We are also human, we are working very hard. We are staying awake all night. 1 crore people are homeless. How are those people enduring who have no drinking water?” she said.People should understand the ground reality and have patience, the chief minister said.“I have called up the Calcutta Electric Supply Corporation (CESC) at least 10 times. Even I do not have proper phone network... I cannot watch television at home,” Banerjee said.Scores of Army personnel were deployed in Kolkata and neighbouring districts of West Bengal on Saturday to help the authorities restore normalcy in the wake of the protests.The West Bengal government had asked the Centre to deply Army in the state for restoration of essential infrastructure and services in the wake of the destruction caused by Cyclone Amphan.Five columns of the Army were deployed in different parts of the city and North and South 24 Parganas districts - the three worst-hit districts of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-can-apologise-or-you-can-cut-off-my-head-mamata-banerjee-on-protest-over-cyclone-amphan-response/story-mJdbfejdgEQmS66jFQYdFP.html
24-05-2020||India||‘As good as dungeon’: Gujarat high court on condition at Covid-19 hospital||The Gujarat high court lashed out at the state government, saying the conditions at the Civil Hospital in Ahmedabad is “pathetic” and it is “as good as a dungeon, may be even worse”.The court’s made the observation on Friday, it was made available on Saturday. The court had taken suo motu congnizance of a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) on Covid-19 pandemic.Ahmedabad’s Civil Hospital recorded 377 Covid-19 deaths till Friday.The division bench of Justices JB Pardiwala and IJ Vora came down hard on the Vijay Rupani government on conditions prevailing at the hospital, and said it was “distressing and painful”.“It is very distressing and painful to note that the condition prevailing, as on date, in the Civil Hospital, is pathetic... We are very sorry to state that the Civil Hospital Ahmedabad, as on date, appears to be in an extremely bad shape,” the court observed.“As we said earlier that the Civil Hospital is meant to treat the patients. However, it appears that as on date, it is as good as a dungeon. May be even worse than a dungeon. Unfortunately, the poor and helpless patients have no option,” it said.Gujarat reported 396 more Covid-19 positive cases on Saturday, taking the state’s tally to 13,669.A state government official said the count includes 6,169 patients who have been cured and discharged and 829 deaths.Nine districts in Gujarat reported fresh cases on Saturday, with Ahmedabad reporting 277 cases. The total number of Covid-19 cases in Ahmedabad district reached 10,001.Death toll of Covid-19 patients in Ahmedabad has risen to 669, while in Surat it has risen to 60, the second highest in Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-good-as-dungeon-gujarat-high-court-on-condition-at-covid-19-hospital/story-2nqQn7sjMTEzbunJJsCyFJ.html
24-05-2020||India||Sadhu’s body found inside his ashram in Maharashtra’s Nanded, investigation on||A body of a sadhu (seer) was found inside his ashram in Maharashtra’s Nanded late on Saturday night, news agency ANI reported. “The sadhu’s body was found at his Ashram in Nanded’s Umri late last night,” ANI quoted Nanded Superintendent of Police Vijaykumar Magar as saying. He further said that an investigation has been launched.The incident comes more than a month after three people, including two seers, were lynched by more than 500 people at Gadchinchale village, in Palghar district. The incident took place on April 16.So far, more than 160 accused have been arrested by the state CID which is probing the Palghar lynching case. Ten arrested minors have been sent to children’s remand home in Bhiwandi.When produced before the Dahanu court on May 12, the accused mentioned in the first information report (FIR) number 76/2020 (attempt to murder charge) have been remanded in judicial custody, while the accused mentioned in FIR number 77/2020 (murder charge) have been remanded in police custody till May 26, said Parmanand Ojha, counsel for the three victims.Gaurav Singh, the Superintendent of Police (SP) who was in-charge when the Palghar lynching incident took place, was sent on compulsory leave by home minister Anil Deshmukh on May 8. Singh has been transferred out of the district but is still awaiting his posting.Dattatreya Shinde has replaced Singh as the new SP of Palghar.Previously, the Maharashtra home ministry had suspended five police personnel, including the Kasa police in-charge assistant police inspector (API) Anandrao Kale; his subordinate, sub-inspector (SI) Sudhir Katare; and transferred about 35 police personnel from the station to various departments in Palghar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sadhu-s-body-found-inside-his-ashram-in-maharashtra-s-nanded-investigation-on/story-gcs3oUK6gL05wqIQi4ePtI.html
24-05-2020||India||CDS to donate Rs 50,000 for next 12 months to PM-CARES fund||Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat has started donating Rs 50,000 from his salary to be deducted every month for the next one year to the PM CARES fund created to battle the COVID-19 pandemic.In March, the CDS had written to the authorities concerned that for the next one year, Rs 50,000 be deducted from his salary and be deposited in the PM-CARES fund, defence sources told ANI.After the letter was written, the first deduction of Rs 50,000 was done from the salary of April and deposited in the fund created for the fight against Coronavirus, they said.The CDS had also donated one-day salary for the PM CARES fund along with all other defence services’ personnel who had donated in March soon after the fund was started.Now the Defence Ministry employees have been given an option of donating one-day salary every month for the next one year and this would be done voluntarily.Sources said the decision to donate Rs. 50,000 every month to the PM CARES fund by the CDS is likely to encourage other senior officers also to make their contribution towards the fight against coronavirus.National Disaster Management Authority member and former Coast Guard Chief Rajendra Singh has also donated 30 per cent of his salary to the PM CARES fund.A number of senior officers in Army Headquarters have contributed for the PM fund.The CDS is also leading from the front in the armed forces’ fight against COVID-19 as he attends all meetings with the Health Ministry and is also working with the services in preparing them for fight against the pandemic.The CDS had also visited the Narela quarantine centre and other facilities to assess the preparations there to tackle the spread of the deadly virus which originated from China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cds-to-donate-rs-50-000-for-next-12-months-to-pm-cares-fund/story-Uo1SK4MBoLsp1L7gbSxdJN.html
24-05-2020||India||‘Good health and a long life’: PM Modi, Arvind Kejriwal wish Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan on birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday took to Twitter and extended wishes to Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on his 76th birthday. PM Modi wished for Vijayan’s good health and long life. “Birthday wishes to Kerala CM Shri @vijayanpinarayi Ji on his birthday. May he be blessed with good health and a long life.” the prime minister tweeted out. CM Vijayan thanked PM Modi for his “good wishes”. Also read: Kamal Haasan, Mohanlal wish Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan on his birthdayBirthday wishes to Kerala CM Shri @vijayanpinarayi Ji on his birthday. May he be blessed with good health and a long life.Several eminent personalities and political leaders wished Vijayan on his 76th birthday on Sunday.Vijayan was born on May 24, 1944, in Pinarayi, Malabar district of Madras Presidency under British India. He served as the longest-serving secretary of the Kerala State Committee of the CPI(M) from the year 1998 to 2015 and took charge as the 12th chief minister of Kerala in the year 2016.  Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal also wished good health to Vijayan on his big day. “Wish Kerala CM Shri Pinarayi Vijayan ji a happy birthday. May he be blessed with a long and healthy life,” Kejriwal tweeted. Wish Kerala CM Shri Pinarayi Vijayan ji a happy birthday. May he be blessed with a long and healthy life. @vijayanpinarayi“He has made his state the object of adulation in the country,” actor and politician Kamal Haasan lauded Vijayan in a Twitter post and extended birthday greetings.  Then, he created a storm by talking with a bloodstained shirt. Now, he has made his state the object of adulation in the country. The CM of Kerala emphasised our bond, calling us brothers, keeping the borders open. Our Heartfelt birthday wishes to our comrade @vijayanpinarayi“Then, he created a storm by talking with a bloodstained shirt. Now, he has made his state the object of adulation in the country. The CM of Kerala emphasised our bond, calling us brothers, keeping the borders open. Our Heartfelt birthday wishes to our comrade @vijayanpinarayi,” Haasan tweeted out. Malayalam cinema superstar Mohanlal also extended his wishes on Vijayan’s birthday “Birthday wishes to our Honourable Chief Minister, Shri @vijayanpinarayi sir,” Mohanlal tweeted on Sunday.Vijayan was born on May 24, 1944, in Pinarayi, Malabar district of Madras Presidency under British India. He served as the longest-serving secretary of the Kerala State Committee of the CPI(M) from the year 1998 to 2015 and took charge as the 12th chief minister of Kerala in the year 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/may-he-be-blessed-with-good-health-and-a-long-life-pm-modi-wished-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-on-birthday/story-pnMMi66hMByCe9IzWsXJbL.html
24-05-2020||India||Spike in Covid-19 cases in eastern Uttar Pradesh, all 75 districts affected||India saw its biggest spike of Covid-19 cases on Sunday with 6,767 new infections reported in the last 24 hours, taking the nationwide tally to 1,31,868.The number of Covid-19 cases saw a spike in Uttar Pradesh too, with the state’s tally reaching 6,017.But an analysis of Uttar Pradesh’s dats shows that the disease is spreading faster in eastern part of the state, said the state’s health officials. This is mainly due to the large number of the migrant workers who have arrived in this region during the past 10 days, they said.State health minister Jai Pratap Singh said on Saturday that 1,423 migrant workers, who returned to Uttar Pradesh in recent days, have tested positive for coronavirus disease.This constitutes 40 per cent of the total cases in the eastern region of Uttar Pradesh, he said.The Sultanpur district, which had only five cases of Covid-19 till recently, now has 41 cases, 15 of which were reported on Saturday, the state’s health officials said.In Jaunpur district, 43 migrant workers have tested positive for Covid-19 while in Barabanki that reported 95 cases in a day on May 21, 49 were migrant workers.In Jaunpur, 43 migrant workers who had returned last week, were tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Friday, taking the district’s total to 91. Most of them had come back from Maharashtra.All 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh are now affected by the Sars-CoV-2 virus.“Most of the migrants who were infected have returned from states like Maharashtra and Gujarat. We have increased our daily testing capacity to over 7,000 samples,” said health minister Jai Pratap Singh.He said that according to estimates, around 17 lakh migrant workers have returned to Uttar Pradesh via trains and buses. He said that samples of over 50,000 have been tested so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spike-in-covid-19-cases-in-eastern-uttar-pradesh-all-75-districts-affected/story-k6sWjsyEncxa2OOUPzbq6K.html
24-05-2020||India||‘11 rail passengers from Mumbai test positive for Covid-19 in Goa, active cases at 50’: State health minister||Goa health minister Vishwajit Rane on Sunday said that 11 passengers who arrived from Mumbai on Saturday via Rajdhani Express have been reported positive for Covid-19.With fresh Covid-19 infections, the number of active coronavirus cases in Goa has jumped to 50, Rane said in a tweet. “11 passengers who arrived from Mumbai yesterday via Rajdhani express have reported positive on the TrueNat device. This brings the total number of active cases in the state of Goa to 50,” Rane posted on Twitter this morning.  Update:11 passengers who arrived from mumbai yesterday via Rajdhani express have reported positive on the TrueNat device. This brings the total number of active cases in the state of Goa to 50.The minister said that in the wake of the rising coronavirus cases in Goa, he will be meeting chief minister Pramod Sawant and request him to implement stringent measure to curb the spread of coronavirus. Also read: 67% of India’s Covid-19 cases come from 4 states In view of upsurge of cases in the state via railways, roadways and others, I will be meeting the Hon’ble Chief Minister @DrPramodPSawant to brief him on the present status in order to curb the rising cases.We will be requesting Hon’ble CM to implement stringent measures...“for passengers entering the state of Goa with a mandatory COVID-19 Negative certificate that will be valid for 48 hours from the time of issue,” Rane tweeted. This comes when the coronavirus cases in the country continue to rise unabated. On Sunday, the country reported another steep single-day surge in Covid-19 cases with 6,767 new infections. India’s coronavirus tally jumped to 131,868 Sunday with 6,654 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in the last 24 hours. Covid-19 death toll in the country stands at 3,867 while more than 54,000 patients have recovered from the disease across the country. Amid the fourth phase of the nationwide coronavirus lockdown, domestic flight services are set to resume from Monday while 100 pair of trains will begin operation on June 1. Nationwide covid-19 lockdown will come to an end on May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-rail-passengers-from-mumbai-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-goa-active-cases-at-50-state-health-minister/story-lzv2yl9uD61rh5s7lNJQ0K.html
24-05-2020||India||Another tiger carcass found in Assam’s Kaziranga; fourth death this year||Authorities in Assam’s Kaziranga National Park have found the carcass of a semi-adult male, taking the number of tiger deaths in the park to four this year.P Sivakumar, director of the park, said the carcass of the two-year-old tiger was found in the Burapahar range of the 430 sq km park, the biggest habitat of one-horned rhinos in the world.“The carcass was found on Friday. It bore several injury marks and the skull was almost crushed. Investigation suggests that it had died due to infighting with other male tigers the previous day,” he said.This is the second such death reported this month and the fourth one this year. All cases are the outcome of infighting.On May 10, the carcass of a semi-adult tigress was found in the Bagori range and in April an adult tiger was found dead in the Kohora range. In January, the carcass of a three-month-old tiger was found.Kaziranga was declared a tiger reserve in 2006 and with 121 Royal Bengal Tigers, it has one of the highest density of the species in the world.“In Kaziranga, tiger deaths are mostly due to infighting and not old age. In a year, the average number of such deaths is nearly 10. In other parks, prey base is low, the number of tigers is also low and the area is much larger. So they don’t have many instances of infighting,” said Sivakumar.In the latest instance, forest officials have also detected cannibalism with parts of the dead tiger’s body consumed by other tigers.“The skull was broken and face disfigured. It appears the attacker, a fully grown adult aged around 10-12 years, might have crushed it. The semi-adult tiger was not able to survive the attack. In this case, we also noticed cannibalism,” said Sivakumar.Though it is peak tourist season, all national parks, wildlife sanctuaries and zoos in Assam have been closed since March 16 as a precautionary measure against the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-tiger-carcass-found-in-assam-s-kaziranga-fourth-death-this-year/story-QSjNPThkXrxSJkfksvQlyI.html
24-05-2020||India||‘He has made his state object of adulation in country’: Kamal Haasan, Mohanlal wish Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan on his birthday||Kerala Chief Minister and CPI(M) leader Pinarayi Vijayan ushered in his 76th birthday on Sunday. Born on May 24, 1944, in Pinarayi, Malabar district of Madras Presidency under British India, Vijayan has a led an extensive political career and was the longest-serving secretary of the Kerala State Committee of the CPI(M) from the year 1998 to 2015. Vijayan also served as the state minister of Electric Power and Co-operatives from 1996 to 1998. In the year 2016, Vijayan won the Dharmadom constituency as a CPI(M) candidate during the state elections and was selected as the leader of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) to take charge as Kerala’s 12th chief minister.  Under Vijayan’s leadership, the state of Kerala has set many milestones. One of the most notable milestones attained by the state under Vijayan’s leadership has been the management of devastating Kerala floods of 2018. Also read: With 6,767 new Covid-19 cases, India records another highest single-day spikeThen, he created a storm by talking with a bloodstained shirt. Now, he has made his state the object of adulation in the country. The CM of Kerala emphasised our bond, calling us brothers, keeping the borders open. Our Heartfelt birthday wishes to our comrade @vijayanpinarayiVijayan’s leadership is also being praised for the effective control and mitigation of Covid-19 cases in the state. Scores of eminent personalities and leaders wished Vijayan on his birthday today.  Actor and politician Kamal Haasan took to Twitter and said that Vijayan “has made his state the object of adulation in the country” Also read: 67% of India’s Covid-19 cases come from 4 statesBirthday wishes to our Honourable Chief Minister, Shri @vijayanpinarayi sir pic.twitter.com/TWTQyrQi9s“Then, he created a storm by talking with a bloodstained shirt. Now, he has made his state the object of adulation in the country. The CM of Kerala emphasised our bond, calling us brothers, keeping the borders open. Our Heartfelt birthday wishes to our comrade @vijayanpinarayi,” Haasan tweeted out. Malayalam cinema superstar Mohanlal also extended his wishes on Vijayan’s birthday “Birthday wishes to our Honourable Chief Minister, Shri @vijayanpinarayi sir,” Mohanlal tweeted on Sunday.On Saturday, Vijayan said that after the coronavirus pandemic, Kerala will be able to overcome any crisis. “Kerala is at the forefront of developing innovative ways to overcome the Covid-19 pandemic and will be able to overcome any crisis which might come. Most of the cases currently being reported in Kerala have come from outside the state. We must not alienate them. This land belongs to them too,” Vijayan said during the first edition of #AskTheCM organized by Twitter India. In #AskTheCM series in partnership with Twitter, India, CM Vijayan will answer queries on Covid-19 efforts in the Kerala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/he-has-made-his-state-object-of-adulation-in-country-kamal-haasan-mohanlal-wish-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-on-his-birthday/story-PyoAapASaBIGuN2x12FieN.html
24-05-2020||India||Three more test positive for Covid-19 in Manipur, state’s tally reaches 29||Three more people tested positive for coronavirus disease Covid-19, taking the total number of cases in the state to 29. Out of these, 25 are active cases.The three latest cases were tested at the Virus Research & Diagnosis Laboratory (VRDL), state health department officials said.Meanwhile, two others tested negative for the disease and were discharged from the hospital.The first two Covid-19 positive cases, which were detected in Manipur on March 24 and April 2, fully recovered during treatment and were discharged from hospitals on April 12 and 21 respectively.In a press release, the Manipur government said that one of those who has been detected Covid-19 positive is a 26-year-old male who came from Tamil Nadu. He left Chennai on May 10 and reached Jiribam on May 13.“The person is now admitted in the Covid-19 Care facility RIMS,” it added. He belongs to Imphal West district.Two others - both males - are aged 19 and 26 and tested positive for coronavirus disease, a second release from the government said.“They belong to Thoubal district and they returned from Delhi in different buses,” it said. “The district authority is well prepared to cope with any eventuality.”Giving details about the people who have been cured of the disease, the release said that two people - a woman and her son from Tengnoupal district in Manipur - were discharged from the Regional Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) after they were found Covid-19 negative. Informing that the total number of recovered cases in the state has increased to four, it said, “The current recovery rate is 13.79 per cent.”Meanwhile, a special train carrying 1,571 passengers from Chennai arrived at the Jiribam railway station in Manipur on Saturday. The people who got down from the train were later transported to the respective quarantine centres after medical screening at Jiribam, reports said.The number of Covid-19 positive cases is on the rise after Manipuri people from different parts of the country started arriving in the state. According to official reports, more than 10,000 people have returned to Manipur from different states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-manipur-state-s-tally-reaches-29/story-gqtWxkSOdR0jQyAmdAPnmO.html
24-05-2020||India||You can now buy liquor in UP malls. But here’s the catch||The Uttar Pradesh government has allowed the sale of certain categories of liquors in malls within the state amid the lockdown to clamp the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, the excise department’s principal secretary, said in a statement that the state cabinet has approved the Uttar Pradesh Excise (Settlement of Licenses for Premium Retail Vends of Foreign Liquor) Rules, 2020.Bhoosreddy said so far foreign liquor was being sold only in retail shops and model shops.“Earlier there was no provision for sale of foreign liquor in malls. Licenses in form FL-4-C will be granted for the retail sale of foreign liquor in sealed bottles in malls. These vends will be in addition to the existing shops,” he said in the statement.The principal secretary said the license for selling liquor in malls can be obtained by any eligible person, company, partnership firm, proprietary firm or society.Malls in which such vends can open should have a minimum plinth area of 10,000 square feet and include departmental stores, supermarkets or hybrid hypermarkets, he explained.“The premium retail vend should have at least 500 square feet carpet area and provide customers with the facility to walk in the shops and select his/her choice of a brand from the shelves. It has to be air-conditioned and be well decorated with shelves so that various brands are displayed in shelves with a systematic layout plan,” Bhoosreddy said.The premium retail vends can sell only those categories of foreign liquor which have been authorised by the excise commissioner, he said, adding that consumption of alcohol on the premises of the vend will not be allowed.They can only sell brands of imported foreign liquor brands, Indian-Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) brands of scotch or above category, all categories of brandy, gin and wine, brands of vodka and rum with a maximum retail price (MRP) of more than Rs 700 and above, and brands of beer with MRP of more than Rs 160 per can of 500ml or equivalent.“Keeping in view the increasing trend of shopping in malls, the rules have been framed allowing the sale of premium brands of liquor in malls,” Bhoosreddy said in the statement.“These vends will give choice and provide access to a wide variety of liquor brands both Indian and imported to liquor connoisseurs, besides giving a better shopping experience,” he added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-can-now-buy-liquor-in-up-malls-but-here-s-the-catch/story-QMue4HMy1XcTsPH7hyutXN.html
24-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan: Odisha receives Rs 500 crore from Centre for restoration work||Cyclone-battered Odisha has received Rs 500 crore from the Centre as advance assistance for restoration work, a senior official said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced the assistance after conducting an aerial survey of the cyclone-hit districts of Odisha and holding a review meeting here on Friday.In a tweet on Saturday, Special Relief Commissioner (SRC) P K Jena said, “MHA released Rs 500 crore to Odisha Govt in less than 24 hours of Honble PM @PMOIndia@naendramodi announcement in Bhubaneswar 4 #cycloneAmphan. We thank @PMOIndia@narendramodi &MHA for such speed in releasing the Fund”.The state government has also stepped up the restoration operation in 10 cyclone-affected districts in the coastal and northern regions of the state, Jena said.Altogether, 19 units of the NDRF, 12 teams of the ODRAF and 156 fire service teams have been deployed in the affected districts for clearance of supply lines, he said.Four districts -- Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapara and Jagatsinghpur -- have been severely impacted by the heavy downpour and high velocity winds triggered by cyclone ‘Amphan’, as per the preliminary damage assessment report released by the state government on Saturday.The report said as many as 44,44,896 people have been affected in the 10 districts.Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik had on Saturday thanked President Ram Nath Kovind and PM Modi for their support during the crisis.“We will work together to ensure care of affected and distressed people and restoration of normalcy at the earliest,” Patnaik had said in a message to Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-odisha-receives-rs-500-crore-from-centre-for-restoration-work/story-GlvbaVCaJMHL1D4t6WKsiL.html
24-05-2020||India||With 6,767 new Covid-19 cases, India records another highest single-day spike||India reported more than 6,000 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases for the third straight day in 24 hours, taking the tally of infections to 131,868, according to the data released by the Union health ministry on Sunday.In another biggest single-day spike in the numbers, 6,767 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the last 24 hours as 147 people succumbed to deadly respiratory disease, health ministry dashboard showed. On Sunday, there were 54,440 recoveries against 51,783 from Saturday taking the recovery rate 41.28%. Maharashtra has reported 47,190 Covid-19 cases, with Mumbai accounting for 28,817 infections, and 1,577 deaths so far. Tamil Nadu has 15,512 cases of the coronavirus disease and 103 deaths and Gujarat has 13,664 infections but a higher number of deaths at 829.Also read: Farm sector, poised to grow by 3%, remains beacon of hope amid pandemicDelhi’s tally stands at 12,910 and death toll at 231. The deaths put the mortality rate of the disease in the national capital at about 1.8%, up from 1% on May 11. The rate remains lower than the national average of 3%.The Union health ministry said on Saturday that 11 municipal areas from seven states—Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh West Bengal, and Rajasthan—report 70% of all Covid-19 cases reported from India.The Union health secretary Preeti Sudan in a high-level meeting with officials from these municipal areas briefed about the factors to be considered while mapping the containment zones and buffer zones for containing the spread of the infection.Last week, the union health ministry transferred powers to the state to demarcate any administrative area as red, orange, and green zones. Earlier, entire districts were classified as red, orange or green zone by the union health ministry.Also read| Flights resume from Monday: How Covid-19 will change Delhi airportIn the containment and buffer zones within – ranging from a single building to an entire city – the authorities have to ensure perimeter control, active search for cases through door-to-door surveillance and monitoring of influenza-like illnesses and severe acute respiratory illness in the buffer zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-6-767-new-covid-19-cases-india-records-another-highest-single-day-spike/story-sam4nH4Lx8WK7BeYRPmUiN.html
24-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: MP struggles to halt Covid-19 as more districts affected and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.MP struggles to halt virus as more districts affectedThe number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in Madhya Pradesh has increased by around 3000 in the past fortnight, mirroring the national trend of an acceleration in the number of cases in this period. Read moreThis Delhi village donated Rs 11 lakh to PM CARES FundSaidulajab, an urban village in Delhi, has set an example in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic in the country as more than 3,700 people have died and over 1.25 have contracted the disease. Read moreIndia now has infrastructure to treat 10 lakh Covid-19 patients: ReportThe central government has prepared the infrastructure (dedicated hospitals) to treat 10 lakh coronavirus disease patients in the country, Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan reported. Read moreCovid-19: New York Times devotes entire front page to list of virus victimsThe New York Times has devoted Sunday’s entire front page to a long list of names of people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic. Read more‘Feel other guys will send me videos of catching up’: Rohit Sharma on Team India’s return to trainingIndia are currently in the fourth stage of lockdown with certain green zones with no reported cases, and businesses starting to open up. The government also allowed sportspersons to train individually in sports complexes after taking required permissions from respective boards and local governments, and following strict guidelines. Read moreXiaomi’s Redmi launches a new TV soundbar: Check price, featuresXiaomi’s sub-brand Redmi is gearing up for the launch of a new smart TV series on May 26. Ahead of the release of ‘Redmi smart TV X’, the company has launched a new TV soundbar. Called Redmi TV soundbar, it is priced at 199 Yuan ( ₹2,120 approximately). Read moreWord of the week: Picky? Petty? Or just picayune?Picayune is a relatively recent addition to the English language, going back to the start of the 19th century in the United States. The word “picayune”, according to the Oxford English Dictionary, is an Anglicized version of picaillon, a southern French regional term for a small copper coin that was minted in the Savoy and Piedmont regions of France. Read moreNawazuddin Siddiqui’s wife Aaliya told him not to write controversial autobiography, says he thought he was being ‘mahan’Actor Nawazuddin Siddiqui’s wife, Aaliya, who is embroiled in a bitter divorce dispute with him, has spoken about his controversial autobiography, that was pulled from the shelves after numerous complaints in 2017. Read moreWatch: ‘This is the 1st time…’: WB Guv on State cooperating with Centre over Amphan||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mp-struggles-to-halt-covid-19-as-more-districts-affected-and-all-the-latest-news/story-OjIhSbI8uyl5iw4UvqCCkN.html
24-05-2020||India||Mixed results in clinical trials, 3 states for quarantining domestic flyers: Covid-19 news today||Mixed results from clinical trials of several promising treatments and vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) brought good and bad news this week to a world desperate for a remedy. Meanwhile, at least three states -- Karnataka, Punjab and Kerala -- have decided on quarantining domestic flyers reaching there even though civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri has repeatedly said such a move is not needed.Karnataka, Punjab, Kerala order 14-day quarantine after flightA Delhi business executive who has an all-important business meeting in Bengaluru can now fly to the southern city -- domestic airline services are being restored from Monday -- but faces the prospect of a seven-day quarantine at a state-run institution and another seven days out of it. Read moreCovid-19: What you need to know todayIt isn’t a competition, yet most states have started treating their response to the coronavirus disease as one. Competitions have metrics, and this one has two — the number of cases, and the number of deaths. Metrics, though, have the ability of provoking undesirable behaviour. Read moreAim to restart international flights before August: PuriIndia will try to restart a good percentage of international passenger flights before August, civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Saturday said, three days after announcing resumption of domestic flights from May 25. Read moreCong releases video of Rahul’s interaction with migrantsThe Congress on Saturday released a video of an interaction between former party chief Rahul Gandhi and a group of migrant workers who were walking back to their village in Uttar Pradesh from Haryana during the lockdown. Read moreCovid-19: Clinical trials bring hope, concernsMixed results from clinical trials of several promising treatments and vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) released this week brought both cheer and gloom to a world desperate for a safe and effective treatment or vaccine against a disease that has infected at least 5.3 million people and killed 340,000. Read moreHuman trial in Chinese vaccine shows promiseA vaccine for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), developed by researchers at China’s CanSino Biologics was found to be safe and effective in its first test on humans, becoming the latest trial that raises hope for an early candidate that could help make people immune to the viral pandemic. Read moreCovid-19 economic proposal stokes controversy, redraftedA group of economists, intellectuals and activists on Saturday redrafted their seven-point ‘Mission Jai Hind’ proposal to deal with the Covid-19 crisis after one of their suggestions of treating all resources of the nation and its citizens -- cash, real estate, property and bonds -- as national resources triggered a controversy. Some of the plan’s signatories also opposed the idea. Read moreFarm sector, poised to grow by 3%, remains beacon of hope amid pandemicFresh indicators show the country’s farm sector, which employs nearly half the population, has coped well with the Covid-19 crisis, with a larger summer crop area than last year, higher sales of fertilisers and seeds, and better prices, leading Reserve Bank Governor Shaktikanta Das to call it a “beacon of hope”. Read moreMigrants protest lack of food, waterMigrant workers travelling on Shramik special trains allegedly damaged railway property at separate places in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday while protesting against scarcity of food, water and unscheduled stoppage during their travel, officials said. Read more141 flights to W Asia to be part of Vande Bharat phase 2The Indian government on Saturday added 141 more flights to West Asian countries for the second phase of Vande Bharat Mission, its massive repatriation programme for citizens stranded overseas because of Covid-19-related travel restrictions. Read moreIvanka Trump under fire for tweet on migrantsUS presidential adviser Ivanka Trump’s praise of an Indian teenager’s bicycle ride home is drawing criticism in India for being insensitive to the plight of migrant workers struggling in a lockdown. Read moreF1 teams come together to fight virusThe exit of Sebastian Vettel from Scuderia Ferrari has been the biggest Formula One news story during the pandemic. What slipped through almost unnoticed was that at the same time as Vettel’s exit, Ferrari unveiled a new pulmonary ventilator for Covid-19 patients—conceived, designed and built in five weeks. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mixed-results-in-clinical-trials-3-states-for-quarantining-domestic-flyers-covid-19-news-today/story-WBT2B7fQ4cfUXnzqKQX92H.html
24-05-2020||India||Cong releases video of Rahul’s interaction with migrants||The Congress on Saturday released a video of an interaction between former party chief Rahul Gandhi and a group of migrant workers who were walking back to their village in Uttar Pradesh from Haryana during the lockdown.The interaction took place on May 16 near the Sukhdev Vihar flyover in New Delhi. The workers were on their way from Ambala to Jhansi, a distance of about 600 km. Gandhi met them when they stopped to rest, after walking over 100 km. In the 17-minute video, Gandhi is seen sitting on a footpath with the migrants.For almost an hour, he listened to their story, their hardships and the reasons for deciding to flee their workplace and why they were forced to walk home, and also their fears, and aspirations, the Congress said.At the request of the group, Gandhi and Congress volunteers organised transport and the necessary permits to get them back to their village,the party added.In the video, Mahesh Kumar, a migrant worker, tells :“We are helpless. What can we do? We have to walk.” Another construction worker and his family members tell Gandhi that they would have left for their homes had there been prior information about the lockdownThe workers remained non-committal about returning to their work places. Gandhi concluded the video with a message :“My brother and sisters, you are the strength of this country, you carry the burden of this country on your shoulders. The entire country wants justice (nyay) for you.”The BJP reacted sharply to the documentary.“Rahul Gandhi has been indulging in camera politics by visiting and speaking to migrants in non-Congress ruled states. He has not given them any relief but indulges in misery politics,” BJP spokesperson GVL Narasimha Rao said.“From Ambala in Haryana, Rajasthan (ruled bythe Congress) is only a few km away. He would have heard woes of migrants in Rajasthan had he ventured there. Alas, Rahul is only interested in politics and not helping migrants.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-releases-video-of-rahul-s-interaction-with-migrants/story-mBJp2gJBG3lV9FLbMDvZmL.html
24-05-2020||India||Aim to restart international flights before August: Puri||India will try to restart a good percentage of international passenger flights before August, civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Saturday said, three days after announcing resumption of domestic flights from May 25.Amid the pandemic, a few states have questioned the move to restart domestic services, he admitted, adding that some hesitation was expected even as the Centre has been trying to meet their concerns.The minister, while addressing a FacebookLive session, clarified again that Aarogya Setu app is not mandatory for air passengers and they can instead give a self-declaration form.Puri said during the session, “I can’t put a date on it (restarting international flights). But if somebody says can it be done by August or September? My response is why not earlier depending on what is the situation.”When asked about the minister’s comment on resuming international services, Vistara said it will await instructions from the Civil Aviation Ministry. Other airlines did not respond.“I am fully hopeful that before August or September, we will try to start a good percentage of international civil aviation operations, if not complete international operations,” he said. “We must have a more ambitious goal. Why not start them by mid-June or June-end or in July.” All scheduled commercial passenger flights have been suspended in India since March 25 when the Modi government imposed a lockdown to contain the coronavirus pandemic.The minister said that the Vande Bharat Mission, which began on May 7, would be able to bring a total 50,000 Indians, who have been stranded abroad, home by the end of this month.Between May 7 and May 21, around 23,000 Indians have been repatriated through flights operated by Air India and its subsidiary under this mission. Passengers have to pay to book a seat on any repatriation flight being operated under the mission.“If you do not have Aarogya Setu app, you can give a self-declaration form,” Puri said.The passenger can get tested for the virus two or three days before departure, get that medical certificate, and just fill in the form, Puri noted.”If you have the app, and if you have got yourself tested for Covid-19 and found negative, and if you do not show symptoms, then I think there is no need for quarantine,” he said.While most states are ready, Puri said few states have talked to his “senior colleagues (ministers) and questioned the necessity of restarting domestic flights so soon”.“They said the Centre should delay it further by 2-3 days. So, they (ministers) asked the states to send the concerns in writing. But the states did not. This will keep going on. When we are dealing with a situation like this, we should expect that there would be some hesitation. But it is our (Centre’s) responsibility and we should make efforts to make those concerns,” he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aim-to-restart-international-flights-before-august-puri/story-WfMh2uGPBWrDzgh3jaewMO.html
24-05-2020||India||‘Sikkim an integral part of India’: Delhi govt withdraws ad, suspends officer||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday issued a clarification after an advertisement by his government in a section of media referred to people from Sikkim as “subject” along with those from Bhutan and Nepal. Kejriwal’s clarification came after Delhi’s lieutenant governor Anil Baijal suspended the officer who had issued the advertisement. “Sikkim is an integral part of India. Such errors also cannot be tolerated. Advertisement has been withdrawn and action taken against the officer concerned,” the Delhi CM said in a tweet.  Sikkim is an integral part of India. Such errors also cannot be tolerated. Advertisement has been withdrawn and action taken against the officer concerned. https://t.co/BgTcjJF4MFThe ad, published in a section of media on Saturday in which residents of Sikkim were referred to as “subjects” and not citizens, led the Sikkim chief minister Prem Singh Tamang to demand an apology from his Delhi counterpart. People under monarchies are usually referred to as subjects. The Directorate of Civil Defence, Delhi Government had issued a notice for recruitment which said that a citizen of India or a subject of Sikkim or of Bhutan or of Nepal and a resident of Delhi can apply to join civil defence corps as volunteers. “The advertisement has termed people of Sikkim as different citizen equated with Nepal and Bhutan while Sikkim became a state of India in 1975 and is emotionally integrated since 1975,” Tamang said. “Our people cannot even think of such a mistake by a responsible government,” Tamang said.“I am deeply hurt by the advertisement published by the Delhi government. I urge the Chief Minister of Delhi to tender an unconditional apology to the people of Sikkim as the people are agitated with this type of mistakes from an accountable government,” the CM said in a statementReacting to the controversy, Delhi’s lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Saturday suspended the officer who issued the advertisement. “A senior officer of Directorate of Civil Defence (HQ) has been suspended with immediate effect for publishing an Advertisement which disrespects the territorial integrity of India by making incorrect reference to Sikkim on the same lines as some neighbouring countries,” the LG said in a tweet.(With inputs from Pramod Giri in Siliguri)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikkim-an-integral-part-of-india-delhi-govt-withdraws-ad-suspends-officer/story-T29GqGKA1s2YvICutH71BJ.html
24-05-2020||India||Top hottest cities in India amid heatwave warning till next week||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said severe heatwaves are likely to impact parts of northwest, central and peninsular India in the next four to five days.The weather bureau has issued an orange alert for Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, and Chandigarh from May 24 to 27 for heatwave; in west and east Rajasthan for heatwave and severe heatwave; and in Vidarbha for heatwave. An orange alert is issued when a heatwave is likely to persist for more than four days or a severe heatwave for more than two days.A heatwave is considered when the maximum temperature is at least 40°C and between 4.5°C and 6.4°C higher than the normal or when the maximum temperature is over 45°C for two stations in a sub-division for two consecutive days.A severe heatwave is declared when the maximum temperature is at least 40°C and more than 6.4°C higher than the normal; or when the maximum temperature is more than 47°C.Here are the hottest cities in the country on Saturday:Churu 46.6Ganganagar 46.6Jhansi 46.1Agra 46Khajuraho 46Akola 46Nagpur 46Gwalior 45.9Palam 45.6Delhi (Safdarjung) 44.7Bilaspur 44.6Raipur 44.4Medak 44Bhopal 43.8Jaipur 43.6Hyderabad 42.8Chandigarh 41.4||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-hottest-cities-in-india-amid-heatwave-warning-till-next-week/story-GTCtIBhLhxk58Lq2mSGpVJ.html
24-05-2020||India||India now has infrastructure to treat 10 lakh Covid-19 patients: Report||The central government has prepared the infrastructure (dedicated hospitals) to treat 10 lakh coronavirus disease patients in the country, Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan reported. The milestone has been achieved in the two months of lockdown with the help of state governments.These dedicated hospitals have wherewithal to treat about three lakh serious cases of Covid-19, Hindustan reported.Niti Aayog member Dr VK Pal said that two months ago, when the pandemic broke out in the country, the country did not have a separate, dedicated hospital for the disease. “Today, 1,093 such hospitals exist in the country,” Dr Pal told Hindustan.These hospitals have 1,85,306 beds out of this, 31,250 are for intensive care. The dedicated hospitals also have ventilators for acute cases. Similarly, there are 2,402 Covid-19 healthcare centres. Patients who are not in a serious condition, and do not require oxygen support are treated here.The country also has 7,013 Covid-19 care centres which have around 6.5 lakh beds. These facilities are used to treat patients with mild symptoms, or to keep them in isolation to prevent the spread of the disease. Together, these three categories of healthcare facilities account for 9.74 lakh beds. And if Covid-19 facilities provided by the armed forces if added to it, the number reaches 10 lakh, Hindustan reported.According to the Union health ministry, patients who need oxygen support, ventilator of treatment in ICU are less than five per cent. Out of the treat 95 per cent, only those patients who have co-morbidity need to be admitted to a hospital. Around 80 per cent of the patients need to be in isolation.The ministry further said that the percentage of recovered patients will increase in the coming days. Today, 41 per cent patients have recovered and 59 per cent are active patients.Though the government has relaxed lockdown in the fourth phase to revive the economy, the fear of the disease is still there. But the government has made it clear that lockdown can’t continue forever.The government has said that Covid-19 is here to stay, and that we have to learn wo live with it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-now-has-infrastructure-to-treat-10-lakh-covid-19-patients-report/story-IWPjAlQL4xrZx215Qw6GLJ.html
24-05-2020||India||Assam reports 17 new Covid-19 cases, state tally rises to 346||Guwahati (Assam) [India], May 24 (ANI): Seventeen more Covid-19 positive cases were confirmed in Assam on Saturday taking the total cases in the state to 346, said Assam Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma.He added that there are 282 active cases in the state. Further 57 persons have recovered while four have died due to Covid-19 in the state.A total of 1,25,101 confirmed cases of Covid-19 have been reported in India. 51,784 persons have recovered or migrated, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said on Saturday.There are 69,597 active cases of Covid-19 in the country at present. As many as 3,720 people have lost their lives due to the coronavirus in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-reports-17-new-covid-19-cases-state-tally-rises-to-346/story-6PTnnqv5FQcU0dSZozq8vM.html
24-05-2020||India||3 onboard Shramik Special trains dead, sample of one taken for Covid-19 testing||Three persons onboard separate Shramik Special trains lost their lives due to various ailment, officials said here on Saturday. “Family members of the deceased said all were suffering from serious ailment. The travel history of all the three deceased passengers was taken,” Kanpur District Magistrate Brahma Deo Ram Tiwari said. Giving details about the deceased, he said Naichinalyu Disang (23), a resident of Nagaland, was going from Delhi to Dimapur. “She was suffering from liver ailments,” Tiwari said. As she coughed and vomited in the train, other passengers got terrified, he added.  The district magistrate said the body reached Kanpur Central Station at around 10.00 am.  “Sample has been taken to check for the presence of novel coronavirus. She was working at a spa in Himachal Pradesh,” he said.  Tiwari said Rajendra Prasad (50), a resident of Unnao, died on the Lucknow-bound special train from Andhra Pradesh. Munni Devi (80), a resident of Siwan district in Bihar, died onboard the special train going from Surat to Siwan, the senior official informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-onboard-shramik-special-trains-dead-sample-of-one-taken-for-covid-19-testing/story-n8dNjRQHBTBcVuOP0H9ZpM.html
24-05-2020||India||21 of 73 people who arrived from United States test positive for Covid-19 in Haryana’s Panchkula region||A total of 21 out of 73 people who arrived from the USA on May 19 have tested positive for Covid-19, according to officials.“All of them are not residents of Panchkula but belong to various districts. 2 reports were inconclusive and rest were negative,” said Dr Jasjit Kaur, Chief Medical Officer, Panchkula.According to the latest data available on the website of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the number of coronavirus cases in Haryana has risen to 1067 with 706 cured/migrated/discharged and 16 deaths.India has so far recorded 1,25,101 Covid-19 cases out of which 69,597 are active cases. 3,720 people have lost their lives to coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/21-of-73-people-who-arrived-from-united-states-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-haryana-s-panchkula-region/story-wkM7y6XL8z80gUl500EPKO.html
24-05-2020||India||Govt warns against hoarding N-95 masks||The department of pharmaceuticals has issued a directive that warns manufactures, importers and suppliers against overpricing and hoarding of N-95 masks, after receiving complaints of people selling it at exorbitant rates in market even though the government has already declared it an essential commodity in the wake of coronavirus disease pandemic.The department of pharmaceuticals has asked States to ensure that N-95, surgical masks, gloves and hand sanitisers are available in sufficient sufficiently and the selling price does not exceed the maximum retail price mentioned at the back of the pack. “This refers to the grievances being received regarding hoarding, back marketing and differential higher pricing of N-95 masks in the country…. It is hereby informed that N-95 has been mask has been notified as an essential commodity on March 13 under the Essential Commodities Act… hoarding, black marketing is punishable offence under the Act.,” says the directive issued on Thursday. Under the Act those who fail to comply with the directive are liable for a prison term of minimum three months with fine that can also go up to 7 years.A senior government official said that the directive was necessary because people were selling it at different rates. “Profiteering at this time when people are fighting a pandemic is not acceptable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-warns-against-hoarding-n-95-masks/story-hlTV7X3kJZG4LFvjFUSyUO.html
24-05-2020||India||11 municipal areas in 7 states account for 70% of Covid cases: Health ministry||Eleven municipal areas from seven states report 70% of all coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases reported from India, the Union health ministry said on Saturday.These municipal areas belong to Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh West Bengal, and Rajasthan.According to the health ministry, 3,250 patients recovered from the viral infection across India in the last 24-hours taking the recovery rate up to 41.39%.The union health secretary Preeti Sudan in a high-level meeting with officials from these municipal areas briefed about the factors to be considered while mapping the containment zones and buffer zones for containing the spread of the infection.Last week, the union health ministry transferred powers to the state to demarcate any administrative area as red, orange, and green zones. Earlier, entire districts were classified as red, orange or green zone by the union health ministry.In the containment and buffer zones within – ranging from single building to an entire city – the authorities have to ensure perimeter control, active search for cases through door-to-door surveillance and monitoring of influenza-like illnesses and severe acute respiratory illness in the buffer zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-municipal-areas-in-7-states-account-for-70-of-covid-cases-health-ministry/story-dzf3TZWl2026TFif0zhnsJ.html
24-05-2020||India||Dr JN Pande, eminent chest specialist, loses Covid battle||Dr Jitendra Nath Pande, former head of the department of medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), died on Friday night with coronavirus disease (Covid-19). He was 78. His colleagues and students remember him as an encyclopaedia of medicine, pioneer of critical care in northern India, as well as a dedicated doctor and teacher.As a professor, he used to reach the wards for the morning round to check-in on all the admitted patients before his students. “He would be there at 7.30am every day. We were supposed to reach the wards at 8am, check on the patients and report to him,” said Dr Anoop Misra, one of his students, and now the chairman of Fortis C-DOC centre of excellence for diabetes, metabolic diseases and endocrinology.“There were times when he would look at a patient and give a diagnosis in minutes,” he said.Even after becoming a doctor in his own right, when Dr Misra was unsure of any treatment course or trouble with diagnosis, he consulted Dr Pande.Dr Pande was also one of the first to establish intensive care units (ICU) in northern India. “It is a great loss to the entire medical fraternity. He helped set up one of the first ICUs in the country. Many of the current leading intensive care experts have trained under him,” said Dr Ashok Kumar, who studied under Dr Pande as an MBBS and post-graduate student. He is currently working as director of rheumatology department at Fortis Hospital in Vasant Kunj.The Supreme Court referred to Dr Pande’s team’s study on ‘Outdoor air pollution and emergency room visits at a hospital in Delhi’ in its 1997-98 judgment banning diesel buses in the Capital.“Sometimes, when we asked him a question, he would reply with the exact page number and table we should refer to,” Dr Kumar said.Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonary medicine at AIIMS, said, “He was born to a family of teachers, he was my mentor and one of the greatest teachers I know. At that time, many chose to go abroad and practice medicine but he remained at AIIMS right from his graduation to superannuation.” Dr Pande was still practising medicine, consulting about 50 patients a day at Sitaram Bhartia Institute of Science and Research in New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dr-jn-pande-eminent-chest-specialist-loses-covid-battle/story-5HsEzvk77LQmcOq8DutfCN.html
24-05-2020||India||Does vitamin D help protect against Covid-19?||Older and darker-skinned people who are likely to have low levels of Vitamin D may benefit from supplementation of the essential vitamin to protect against severe symptoms of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to a paper published in The Lancet. Clinicians, however, say that dosing on the vitamin in hope of being protected from the infection is a fallacy, as the best and only protection against infection remains hand-wash, wearing masks and social isolation.Vitamin D is made by the skin on exposure to sunlight and is essential for bone growth and strength as it helps in the intestinal absorption of calcium, magnesium, and phosphate. This fat-soluble vitamin also modulates the immune response of white blood cells by preventing them from releasing too many inflammatory cytokines, which is what leads to the cytokine storm — a complication associated with Covid-19 and other disease such as severe acute respiratory syndrome (Sars) and middle-east respiratory syndrome (Mers). Cytokine storm is an acute immune reaction gone awry as the body starts destroying its own cells and tissues along with the virus.Melanin, which gives skin the dark pigmentation, lowers the skin’s ability to make vitamin D on exposure to sunlight, with several studies showing that older adults with darker skin are more likely to be deficit in this essential vitamin. With social isolation forcing people to spend more time indoors, the deficiency of this vitamin may be increasing, said The Lancet study. Around 50% Indians are deficit in vitamin D, which is now found in some brands of fortified milk, including Mother Dairy. The overall prevalence of vitamin D deficiency in people living in urban Chennai was 55%, found a recent survey of 1,500 people published in the British Journal of Nutrition on March 26.“Our study found that vitamin D deficiency was 63% in people with diabetes, 58% in people with pre-diabetes, and 80% in obese people, which is worrying because these are risk factors for Covid-19,” says Dr V Mohan, study co-author and chairman and chief of diabetology at Dr Mohan’s Diabetes Specialities Centre, which is a WHO Collaborating Centre for Noncommunicable Diseases Prevention and Control.“Observational studies in the past have linked low levels of vitamin D and susceptibility to acute respiratory tract infections. Supplementation is inexpensive and the danger of side effects and toxicity are low when taken orally. The risk of toxicity is high for people with kidney and liver diseases as they may not be able to excrete the vitamin, so they should not take supplementation without prescription,” said Dr Mohan. The Lancet paper cites vitamin D deficiency as one of the possible reasons for varying death rates across countries citing an observational study published in the journal Aging Clinical and Experimental Research that used data from 20 European countries. It noted that average vitamin D levels are low in Italy and Spain, which have experienced high Covid-19 death rates compared to north European countries, which have high average levels of vitamin D from the consumption of cod liver oil and vitamin D supplements, and possibly less sun avoidance.“Vitamin D might help to reduce the inflammatory response to infection with Sars-CoV-2. Deregulation of this response... is characteristic of COVID-19 and degree of over-activation is associated with poorer prognosis. e,” according to The Lancet paper.An observational correlation, however, does not mean causation, say experts. “Intervention trials have rarely shown benefits of vitamin D supplementation as treatment, except for muscular-skeletal disorders. Studies linking vitamin D supplementation to lung diseases like tuberculosis and COPD (chronic obstructive lung disease) have demonstrated no difference to clinical outcomes,” said Dr Nikhil Tandon, professor of endocrinology and metabolism at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.“Observational studies cannot be used to inform public policy and unless there is clinical data to show that it has a substantial affect on the outcomes of Covid-19, having it in the hope or anticipation that it will protect you against disease is pointless. It may bring you other benefits if you are deficit, but it will not stop you getting Covid-19 the way masks, handwashing and social isolation will,” said Dr Tandon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/does-vitamin-d-help-protect-against-covid-19/story-ltqjruZFEJK2VHoi78DG8M.html
24-05-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||It isn’t a competition, yet most states have started treating their response to the coronavirus disease as one.Competitions have metrics, and this one has two — the number of cases, and the number of deaths. Metrics, though, have the ability of provoking undesirable behaviour.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageFor some time in the late 1990s and the 2000s, EVA or economic value added was the hottest buzzword among financially inclined management types. It was a concept created by Stern Stewart, and in one of my previous avatars, I helped bring the study to India (for years, the annual EVA computation of top Indian companies was published in a magazine for which I used to work). The problem with EVA was that it encouraged short-termism. Executive compensation was usually linked to EVA targets in companies that believed in the metric. Sure, Stern Stewart came up with another concept, MVA or market value added, and several other measures to prevent such behaviour, but that’s another story.In this case, because state governments, and the politicians who head them, see low Covid-19 infections and deaths as a manifestation of their abilities as administrators, and vice versa, they have started to game the system.The simplest form of this is just not testing enough. Some states start off by not testing enough; others start off well, but as cases continue to rise, the message goes out to go easy on the testing. Tamil Nadu, Delhi, and Maharashtra, then, deserve credit for actually continuing to test more.Any state, which, according to publicly available data, tests fewer people than the national average per million is definitely doing badly on this score. The national average, on the basis of Friday night’s data, was 2,096 per million. States such as Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal (although it seems churlish to criticise the state for testing at a time when it is recovering from the fallout of Amphan), and even media-darling Kerala are testing fewer people per million than the national average. It doesn’t matter how good the public health system in a state is — if it isn’t testing enough, it isn’t doing enough. Period.But the testing data is also misleading. No state breaks up the number of tests carried out so far into new tests and tests on those people who already tested positive for Covid-19 (and who can be declared Covid-19-free only after a negative test). India isn’t alone in this. The US CDC, it emerges, doesn’t do this either. This means calculations of the number of people per million of population that have been tested could be far off the mark.If there is one thing the coronavirus disease has taught us, it is that larger policy and public health decisions related to the pandemic have to be based on data, and science. Unfortunately, few governments around the world seem to recognise that.Right now, as countries around the world, including India, open up, the most important data is the extent of the disease’s prevalence — has it infected 10% of the population or 30%? (Another way of asking the same question would be, is 30% of the population now immune, or is it only 10%?). Widespread testing, perhaps using rapid antibody tests, may provide the answer — and also shed light on the actual fatality rate of the disease. Current data shows it is around 3% in India, but I am willing to wager that the actual rate will be much lower, perhaps even lower than 1%, a level that may warrant the removal of more restrictions on movement and activity.But a country that wants to make decisions on the basis of data will also have to ensure that it comes in quickly. In India, data on cases as well as deaths is reported with a lag, making it all but impossible to know the real trend. I am told the number of cases reported every day is based on the results of tests of varying vintages. It’s getting measured for sure — but not in a way that will help us manage it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-Br6Xrc64d0SPeYvqmtKKMK.html
24-05-2020||India||Decade after Cyclone Aila, saline water will continue to haunt farms in Sunderbans||A major humanitarian crisis looms large over the Sunderbans region, as Cyclone Amphan has left thousands of acres of land inundated with saline water, virtually rendering the land unfit for cultivation for several years to come, local people, public representatives and experts fear. Cyclone Aila of 2009 had left a similar effect. As the land turned infertile for four-five years, a section of the local farm-dependent population became dependent on forest produce, effectively increasing stress on the eco-sensitive zone of the world’s largest mangrove forest, while another section migrated in thousands to other states, especially India’s southern states, to work as labourers.“I am deeply worried about the situation and have started looking for agriculture experts who could suggest ways to reduce salinity from the farmland as early as possible. With loss of jobs and uncertainty over the economic prospect due to the Covid-19 lockdown, the loss of productivity in farmland is coming as a double whammy. A major humanitarian crisis is looming large,” Pratima Mandal, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP from Jaynagar in South 24-Parganas said.Of the 102 islands in Sunderbans, 52 are inhabited by 4.5 million people and the rest are tiger territories. Another 2 million living around the islands have been hit by saline water coming through the rivers of Matla, Raymangal, Bidyadhari and Muri Ganga, among others.A visit to the cyclone-hit areas of the Sunderbans region in the districts of North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas revealed that area after area was inundated, with crops on the field ruined and fishes in the ponds dead. But a fear of the long-term loss due to increased salinity in farmland was greatest among the local residents. “The water logged in the fields has no way to ebb. Rather, through the breached embankments, saline water will keep entering with every high tide. These lands will turn infertile for the next three-four years, we apprehend,” Manas Mahato, Pradhan of Atpukur gram panchayat in Basirhat sub-division of North 24-Parganas district said.Subhas Acharya, a former joint-director of the Sunderbans Development Board, had a similar opinion. “Cyclone Aila had crippled life in the delta. I apprehend a similar situation this time again,” he said, adding that due to the 4m high storm surge of Cyclone Aila saline water had gushed into the villages and crop lands remained inundated in saline water for nearly a month in several areas allowing the salt to settle down on the farmlands.“This made the land infertile for years. The gaping holes in the river embankments created by the waves allowed the saline water to freely enter the croplands whenever there were tides. The delta it’s awaiting another humanitarian crisis,” said Acharya.Sandeshkhali MLA Sukumar Mahato and Minakhan MLA Usharani Mondal said that saline water had been stagnant in hundreds of acres of land in their areas till Saturday afternoon and that they anticipated the water would remain logged for the time being.Biswarup Naskar, a resident of Kakdwip area in South 24-Parganas said that the flooding of sweet water ponds had caused a multi-dimensional crisis. “Apart from the economic loss for the fishes killed and swept away, there is no food or water for the cattle. The pond water was used to irrigate the crops and backyard farms. The cattle used to drink this water. Villagers have started selling off their cattle,” said Naskar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decade-after-cyclone-aila-saline-water-will-continue-to-haunt-farms-in-sunderbans/story-M66bMGUuuIEzQ7Q9iY4SqN.html
24-05-2020||India||Eid in lockdown: Vaishno Devi Shrine Board to provide special recipes on Eid to Muslims in Katra quarantine centre||Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board which has been taking care of several people put up in quarantine centres in Katra in Jammu and Kashmir has decided to serve special recipes to Muslims housed in quarantine centres on the occasion of Eid on Monday, March 25. Eid or Eid-ul-Fitr will be celebrated in India on Monday since the moon could not be sighted on Saturday as per Delhi Jama Masjid’s Shahi Imam.The shrine board said they have been providing Sehri and Iftar meals to the Muslims after changing their schedule to meet the requirement of food for those fasting early morning and in the evening. Now, for Eid they will make special recipes and provide to the faithfuls.“We were informed that Muslims at the quarantine centre are observing fast & need food early in the morning & in the evening. So we changed our schedule accordingly. We will try to provide special recipes to them on Eid,” ANI quoted Ramesh Kumar, CEO of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board as saying.He added that the board has been providing meals to around 500 Muslims quarantined at Aashirwad Bhawan in Katra during the holy month of Ramazan.“In the month of Ramazan, the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board has been working overnight to provide sehri and iftari to our Muslim brethren in the morning and the evening,” he said.Aashirwad Bhawan in Katra has been turned into a quarantine centre after the epidemic broke out in India in the month of March.Chief executive officer of the board Ramesh Kumar said the facility has 500 beds and most of the Muslims staying there were labourers who fasted during the day during the month of Ramazan.“We are running a quarantine centre at Aashirwad Bhawan, which has a capacity of 500 beds. Since it’s the holy month of Ramzan and the government of Jammu and Kashmir has been bringing back its residents from different parts of the country, we converted Aashirwad Bhawan in Katra into a quarantine centre in the month of March,” Kumar claimed.He said the decision was taken in line with the spirit of brotherhood as per the best traditions of Jammu and Kashmir.“Those brought to Aashirwad Bhawan are mostly labourers, who are fasting during the month of Ramazan. So, we decided to provide them sehri and iftari everyday,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Several of these migrant labourers have come to the state riding on special Shramik trains and buses which dropped them to Udhampur town. Katra is around 40km away from Udhampur.The shrine board, according to Kumar, has also been providing food to others housed in different quarantine centres in Katra and that their services were not limited just to Aashirwad Bhawan.He said other people who have not been fasting have been given breakfast, lunch and dinner in other government-run quarantine facilities in Katra.The Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine is one of the most famous Hindu shrines located in Jammu and Kashmir is also considered to be among the richest.The board has spent Rs 80 lakh on providing food to the needy people since March 20 in various quarantine centres at Katra, Kumar claimed. In addition to this, it has also spent Rs 1.5 crore to fund the fight against Coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eid-in-lockdown-vaishno-devi-shrine-board-to-provide-special-recipes-on-eid-to-muslims-in-katra-quarantine-centre/story-Fb74f7gWWWv2B24n9YEtFL.html
24-05-2020||India||3,300 Jammu and Kashmir residents evacuated from Maharashtra||Around 3,300 Jammu and Kashmir residents, including 1,200 students who were stranded in various parts of Maharashtra have been sent back to their homes by four Shramik Special trains during the past 10 days, officials said.This is the highest number of Shramik Special trains deployed in any single state for the evacuation of stranded J&K residents.Around 600 stranded people from J&K including 200 students, left for Udhampur Railway Station from Mumbai’s Bandra Terminus Saturday evening in the fourth and last Special Shramik Train. People who boarded this train were mostly stranded in two key districts of Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban. These stranded persons include patients, traders, handicraft vendors, labourers and employees of banks, private sector and government employees. There are also residents from the union territory of Ladakh on this train who were stranded in Mumbai and its adjoining areas.Around 30 cancer patients from J&K and their attendants were stranded in Mumbai since the countrywide lockdown was announced by the Government in March. Almost all of them have been evacuated except a couple of such patients who are staying back for treatment.Around 700 of those evacuated, including 100 students, had left for Udhampur from Thane Railway Station in Navi Mumbai by a Shramik Special train on May 22.Earlier, around 1,000 others, including 500 students were evacuated from Pune by a Shramik Special train on May 19 while another 1,000 residents, including 400 students, were evacuated from Nagpur on May 14.District administrations in Jammu and Kashmir and local NGOs in Maharashtra had reached out to the stranded people during the lockdown to ensure adequate provision of food, rations and other basic amenities.In the south-western region, around 800 J&K residents including 35 students were evacuated by Shramik Special train from Kerala on May 20.Around 1,800 people including 17 students were evacuated by two trains from Goa on May 10 and 12.A total of 5,700 people including 1,200 students from J&K have so far been brought back to the union territory by seven special trains from Maharashtra, Kerala and Goa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-300-jammu-and-kashmir-residents-evacuated-from-maharashtra/story-wi9urSIoZlh8BWAfCYlu1J.html
24-05-2020||India||I feel safer in Kerala because it is a role model for the whole world: Bharath Sathyajith||For two weeks, Bharath Sathyajith has not stepped outside a hotel room in Kerala’s Palakkad town, where he is staying with his parents and sister. But the 14-year-old but hasn’t complained even once.The reason: he is both elated and relieved to come back to his homeland after battling a harrowing month of pandemic-driven panic and bullying in Oman, where he was born and lived with his parents until last month.Bharath came back along with his mother Dhanya, father Sathyajith Krishankutty and sister Gowri on a flight from Muscat on May 9, and was put in mandatory quarantine at a local hotel. Despite the abrupt separation from his friends and the familiar environment of his school — he studied in Class eight at the Indian School in Al Maabela in Muscat — Bharath is happy. “I feel more safe in Kerala now. It is a role model for the whole world,” he said, referring to the efforts of the state government to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease, though experts have expressed apprehension over the low rate of testing in the state. Kerala has reported 795 cases till date.In Muscat, which has more than 5,000 cases of Covid-19, Bharath often faced bullying that intensified when some of his classmates found out that he was returning to India. In contrast, he finds Kerala — he would visit his grandparents every year during summer holidays — quite calming. “I love the countryside than hustle and bustle of the city. I love to run after calves and swim in village ponds,” he said.Sathyajith Krishankutty, an automobile engineer, moved to Muscat in 2000 and steadily rose through the ranks in a private firm. But he met with an accident in February and started looking for an opportunity to shift base back to Kerala. “The accident came as a blessing in disguise for me. It helped me to get into the first flight,” Bharath’s father says, adding that he is planning to open an auto garage in his hometown, Palakkad.Bharath, who will go to school in Palakkad once classes resume, now spends most of the day playing board games, chatting with friends from Muscat and listening to his mother’s collection of Carnatic classical music. At times, news of the rapidly progressing pandemic and memories of his friends bother him. ‘Watching the news is disturbing at times. But at the same time you need to know what is happening. I was upset leaving my school and friends. But my father said in life you have to face such circumstances,” he said. He idolizes his father and wants to become an automobile engineer. The two weeks in the hotel have made Bharath realise the value of freedom, he said. “Free movement was curtailed, playgrounds were cordoned off and we were forced to cover our mouth and nose. But this discipline brought other dividends also, clean air, water bodies and little garbage around,” he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-feel-safer-in-kerala-because-it-is-a-role-model-for-the-whole-world-bharath-sathyajith/story-fI9lbALmnqNAbNZokZtXVO.html
24-05-2020||India||Wanted to go to big city school, didn’t even get to see it: Nandini Mahto||Holi was always Nandini Mahto’s favourite festival but this year, she was looking forward to the week after the celebrations. The nine-year-old was supposed to accompany her father, 34-year-old Kailash Mahto, her mother, Babita Devi, and two brothers, Mayank and Karan, from their cramped two-room hutment in Bihar’s Sitamarhi district to Ahmedabad. Mahto worked as tailor, stitching jeans at a private firm in Ahmedabad, and hoped to give his children a better future by educating them at a school in the Gujarat capital where teaching standards were far higher than the institutions which were back home in rural Bihar. He had returned home to celebrate Holi and the plan was to return to Ahmedabad after the holiday, this time with everyone in tow. She was supposed to start Class 5 the Brigadier Star School in Ahmedabad, an English-medium school where the monthly fees would have eaten substantially into Mahto’s monthly salary of Rs 15,000. “I would have enrolled my two sons also in good schools. Once educated, they would do well in life. We didn’t study and so we have to wander here and there for livelihood,” said Mahto.Nandini, who had never stepped outside her neighbourhood before or boarded a train, was eager to travel hundreds of kilometers away, spend more time with her father and see a new city. But that was not to be. Barely two days after she reached Ahmedabad on March 23, the government clamped a nationwide lockdown to arrest the spread of Covid-19. “I didn’t get to see anything of the city. Papa had said he would take me to a new big school, but I could not even see the building,” she said. For almost two months, she and her family were cooped up in one room. With the factory closed, the family barely managed to eat two meals a day though the businessman Mahto worked for waived the rent for the room. However, Nandini felt suffocated as she was forbidden from stepping out of the house. “Papa said due to the coronavirus, nobody should move out,” the nine-year-old said.When on May 1, the government started trains for stranded migrant workers, the family felt relieved. Mahto borrowed money from his father and brother-in-law in Delhi to buy two tickets for himself and his wife at Rs 900 apiece – the travel was free for their three children. On May 21, the family boarded the train from Ahmedabad station with Nandini having seen little of Ahmedabad except for one room and the railway platform. She was disappointed, but relieved that she was going back home after the ordeal. Now at a quarantine centre in Sonbarsa block of Sitamarhi, Nandini was recently told by her parents that they would not be returning to Ahmedabad. The move may hurt her ambitions of becoming a doctor, but her father is clear that he will not leave his native village even if he doesn’t find a job there.Nandini wants to go back to her old school, Pavirti Shishu Public School, and meet her friends. “But I don’t know when the school will reopen. Here, we are in the quarantine centre and everything is closed,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wanted-to-go-to-big-city-school-didn-t-even-get-to-see-it-nandini-mahto/story-pJxOmWQwh2qLURdOY3xnFN.html
24-05-2020||India||When lockdown is over, will call my friends and hug them tight: Jharna Mandowara||Jharna Mandowara, 15, lives in a high-rise apartment in Kandivli in suburban Mumbai with her parents and 18-year-old sister. She hasn’t stepped out of the house since March 22 because of the lockdown. But the Sars-Cov-2 virus and its effect hit home nine days ago, when a neighbour three floors below them tested positive for Covid-19 and the building was partially sealed.Mumbai has been one of the most affected urban centres in the country, with 28,817 cases till date.“It was really frightening. We aren’t going out, but dad has been going to the shops regularly to buy essentials. What if something happens to him?” Mandowara says. “Before this, I spent my days studying and playing a lot of sports, meeting my friends. I’m an extrovert and in normal times, keeping me at home was a task for my parents. Now I have no option. And to think someone was infected right here below us, makes me very anxious. But I am learning to act like a grown-up and not give in to the anxiety.”She says she has had to grow up all at once in the past two months. Mandowara and her sister Mitanshi have an action plan to keep themselves active. When the lockdown began, their father, who works in film marketing and distribution, suggested that they each keep a diary. “Mitanshi doesn’t maintain one daily because she says she doesn’t know what to write. But I write in it every day – my to-do list for the next day, some inspiring quotes. I also paint to keep myself occupied,” Mandowara says.Online classes and homework take up a large part of the day. The girls also exercise every day with their father, a fun workout of aerobics and kickboxing.“I’m thankful I was born at a time when video-calling is easily accessible,” Mandowara said. “I do a video call with my group of friends every day for an hour.” “Ot goes on for hours,” her sister interrupts to say. “It’s not the same but I’m privileged to be able to do even that, so I guess it’s all right,” Mandowara adds.The one thing she misses and can find no substitute for is sports. “It’s almost like physical pain. Four of us used to play tennis together; my sister and I used to take classes. Suddenly everything stopped.” Her sister is her biggest source of support right now, Mandowara says. “We watch shows together, she lends me books and most importantly, when our parents become overbearing, we take refuge in each others’ company. She wanted to cut my hair too, but I won’t allow her anywhere near me with scissors!”It’s been a time of new lessons, Mandowara says. “I have realised how hard my mom works to manage the house and feed us. I was too busy with my life to help out before; now I try to lessen her load. Even if it’s just simple chores like folding the clean laundry.”So what’s the first thing she’ll do when things get back to normal? “Get out of the house, doesn’t matter where,” Mandowara says. “I will call my friends down from their homes and hug them tight, very tight.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-lockdown-is-over-will-call-my-friends-and-hug-them-tight-jharna-mandowara/story-RNzl59K8jXRE4cEMgdDiEM.html
24-05-2020||India||I want to build bridges so that people can reside under it, drive cars on it: Ragini Bansal||Eleven-year-old Ragini Bansal was born in a shanty under an overbridge in the plush Gomti Nagar neighbourhood of Lucknow. She has spent all her life in the same slum and yet, she hesitates to call it her home. “Home is where you have a proper house. My real home is in the village. I only reside here,” Bansal said, pointing at a yellow plastic sheet tent adjoining a drain. Four wooden poles hold up the sheet at each corner. On usual days, she would go out to play with other children living in the 25 tenements clustered under the Shaeedpath flyover, but for the last two months, she has been confined to the shanty because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “My mother says that corona will catch me if I go far from home,” she said, making a long face and pointing at her mother, Usha, 48, who works as a domestic help.There is another modification to her daily routine. “Corona will not catch you if you maintain cleanliness. So all of us bathe twice every day,” she adds. Bansal wears a light blue night suit over a pair of jeans given to her by the memsahib of one of the four houses where Usha worked when the pandemic hit. She has been unemployed for the past  four months, which means her monthly income that ranged from Rs 6000 to Rs 8000 has dried up.The youngest of 10 siblings, Bansal shares the space with four sisters and a brother. At night, her elder sister ties her mother’s old saris to the wooden poles to give them some privacy. The saris are untied in the day. There is no electricity or running water and the residents use a nearby community bathroom, which scientists and urban planners worldwide argue puts city dwellers like Bansal and her neighbours at greater risk of transmission of Covid-19 infection.Her family belongs to Sitapur district where they have a small farm. Her father Suresh Bansal, 51, a marginal farmer, and two elder brothers, live in Sitapur. The other three sisters are married and live in other districts of UP.“We have a house with two rooms in Sitapur. I have gone there a few times, but I like to live here in Lucknow,” she says.The pandemic that has infected at least 314 people in Lucknow also threatens to crush Bansal’s dreams. A few months ago, her mother used to wake her up at six to get her ready for school. Bansal hated getting up early, but loved going to school — a private institution located about a kilometre away from her home. It was privilege that only she and her elder brother had. “I like the school assembly and the school building. We even have two fans in our class and I love sitting below them,” she says. She reveals another reason why she never missed school. “My mother takes my elder sisters with her to mop big houses. I don’t want to do that work, so I go to school,” she says.But her education is now stalled. The school closed as soon as the national lockdown came into effect on March 25. Bansal’s and her brother’s fees amount to Rs 1050 monthly and her mother, struggling to feed her children, is uncertain if she will be able to fund her daughter’s education. The school has not provided online classes either. Bansal is too poor to think of learning online but she has kept all her books neatly in her school bag that hangs from one of the poles. “I like English and Math,” she says, and offers to recite a poem to this reporter.Despite the uncertainty around her schooling, Bansal is certain she will go back to school. The reason: She wants to build large bridges so that more people like her can live under them. “My elder brother once told me that engineers make these bridges, so I want to become an engineer. People will be able to live under the bridges I build and drive their vehicles over it,” she says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-want-to-build-bridges-so-that-people-can-reside-under-it-drive-cars-on-it-ragini-bansal/story-5VpXtYH1AKqCFWXCwmZlKN.html
24-05-2020||India||Human trial in Chinese vaccine shows promise||A vaccine for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), developed by researchers at China’s CanSino Biologics was found to be safe and effective in its first test on humans, becoming the latest trial that raises hope for an early candidate that could help make people immune to the viral pandemic.The result of CanSino’s Phase 1 trial, reported in The Lancet on Friday, is the first to be published in a peer-reviewed journal. The other experimental vaccines that have shown to work – Moderna’s and Oxford University’s -- are yet to be peer reviewed and complete data regarding their trials are unavailable.The Chinese researchers reported that their experimental vaccine produced neutralising antibodies – the type of immune cells that kill infected cells -- and the rapid immune responses crucial for the body to mount its varied counter-attack. The trials were carried out with 108 healthy participants from Wuhan, the epicentre of the Covid-19 outbreak, who were never infected by the Sars-Cov-2, the virus which causes Covid-19. “We found that the Ad5 vectored Covid-19 vaccine is tolerable and immunogenic in healthy adults... (it triggered) responses against Sars-CoV-2 (that) peaked at day 28 post-vaccination, and rapid, specific T-cell responses were noted from day 14 after one shot of the vaccine,” the researchers said in the paper. One of the authors described the results as an important milestone. “The trial demonstrates the vaccine produces virus-specific antibodies and T cells in 14 days, making it a potential candidate for further investigation,” said professor Wei Chen from the Beijing Institute of Biotechnology in Beijing in a statement, news agency AFP reported. “However ... the ability to trigger these immune responses does not necessarily indicate that the vaccine will protect humans from Covid-19,” the researcher said, adding that there was still a long way to go before “the vaccine is available to all”.The results are based on antibody and immune cell concentrations seen within 28 days of the vaccine being given to the participants in a low, medium or a high dose. The ones given the high dose had the strongest immune response but also suffered from the most side-effects, such as high fever, fatigue and headache.There are more than 100 vaccines in development worldwide, with at least eight having started or set to start clinical trials in humans where they are judged for how safe and effective they are. These trials will also determine which platform – the way a vaccine will train the body – works best. CanSino’s candidate uses an inactivated adenovirus – one of the viruses that cause the common cold -- to deliver DNA into human cells, prompting them to produce a key protein found on the surface of SARS-CoV-2. This is meant to train the immune system into recognising the virus.Moderna’s vaccine works by a code, called a messenger RNA, to prompt the body into making the same protein, the S spike protein that the Sars-Cov-2 virus uses to infect a person. Researchers say both technologies are quickly scalable for mass development but aren’t as proven as traditional vaccines.Clinical trials usually involve three or more phases, in which the tests are first carried out on healthy people, before being widened and randomised to rule out any externalities that could influence the findings. In the case of the CanSino candidate, the trial has now entered the second phase. Inclusion of the people above the age of 60 and how they react to the vaccine will be crucial, the researchers noted. “In this trial, no participants were older than 60 years and only 16% were older than 50 years, providing limited information on the capability of generating a potent response in the older population. Since age has also been identified as an independent risk factor… there is a possibility that an even lower immune response might be found in the older population,” the authors warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clinical-trials-bring-hope-concerns/story-c6I409EWnwAXzBKGsfPPRK.html
24-05-2020||India||Miss face-to-face discussions with teachers: Aria Puri||New Delhi: When 13-year-old Aria Puri received a Macbook Air from her parents on her birthday last year, little did she imagine that she would be attending her first day of Class 9 on her laptop.Puri, a student of Amity International School, Saket, has been confined to her apartment in Faridabad’s Kenwood Towers society since March 16, when the Delhi government announced the closure of schools to arrest the spread of the coronavirus disease in the national Capital, where 12910 persons have been infected till date. The new academic year for Puri began on March 23 with online classes. Since then, her schedule has changed. “I like to prepare for my classes. I wake up at around 7 am and go for a jog before they begin. People have been criticizing online education saying that the children are on their laptops all day. But I don’t spend more than five hours on an average on it,” says Puri. Classes begin at 9am and end at 1 pm. She attends coaching classes, which have also shifted online, between 5pm and 7pm. She’s studying to give her Joint Entrance Examinations three years later and on Sundays, her classes are seven and a half hours long. The first day classes shifted to the Microsoft Teams videoconferencing app, Puri faced a tough time figuring out the sound and camera, how to mute herself and ask questions through the chat box. Since then, lessons have been smooth, made easier by the bar graphs, diagrams, and videos that teachers have incorporated. “But we don’t have our friends sitting beside us,” she says.If there is one thing she misses about school, it is the daily classes of karate. Her martial art lessons have been suspended for almost two months now. “I miss face to face discussions with my teachers as that makes me connect with them better and even chatting with my friends in person. But most of all, I miss my karate sessions in school. Online classes cannot be a substitute for it,” she says.“During this lockdown, I have taken a special interest in baking,” says the teenager, who wants to pursue Physics and Mathematics in future. Till now, she has made a chocolate banana cake, a walnut cake, and some apple cinnamon muffins with some help from her grandmother and YouTube tutorials.“While Covid-19 has had an impact on the economy and the lives of people, I feel it has also given us the time to slow down in life and spend quality time with our family. It has given nature the chance to breathe, rejuvenate and flourish,” she says.But niggling concerns about the infection crowd her mind. “My grandparents and a younger cousin live in the same building. They are most vulnerable to this infection,” she says. The family has remained closed knit through lockdown, and Puri spends her non-school hours chatting with parents, her younger sister, and other relatives. In addition to sleepovers, movies, and eating out with friends, resuming her karate lessons is on top of her list of things to do once the Covid-19 restrictions are lifted. “My best friend also loves karate. So we have planned to meet at her place whenever it is safe and have a joint session,” she says excitedly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/miss-face-to-face-discussions-with-teachers-aria-puri/story-vwVdR8WOnaV8ucc5nRV6UL.html
24-05-2020||India||Heatwave here till next week, IMD issues alert||After a hot Friday, Delhi continued to bake on Saturday — the Safdarjung weather station recorded 44.7°C, a full five degrees above normal — and scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) warned that the Capital could see the heatwave continue in the first half of next week. If anything, it will only become hotter. “Till May 27, there will be no respite. The maximum temperature can go up to 46- 47 degree Celsius in the Capital because of dry, hot winds blowing. From May 28 night, a western disturbance will affect us which may cause dust storm or thunderstorms. Low level easterly winds may also bring some relief after May 28,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, Delhi.Severe heatwaves are likely to impact parts of northwest, central and peninsular India in next four to five days, while many parts of northeast India will experience very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall during the same period, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in a statement on Saturday.The heatwave is likely to affect relief and rehabilitation work related to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic that is ongoing in many parts of the country. However, with a lockdown still in effect across India, albeit with considerable relaxation of restrictions, there is not likely to be as much movement of people or vehicles as there might have been otherwise. Still, the heatwave is likely to affect normal life — and also be felt very hard. April and much of May have been milder than they usually are, especially in Delhi and parts of the northern plains.The region was hit by frequent thunderstorms after nearly double the usual number of western disturbances — a weather pattern that triggers storms and rain — affected the region in this period.IMD has issued an orange alert in Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, and Chandigarh from May 24 to 27 for heatwave; in west and east Rajasthan for heatwave and severe heatwave; and in Vidarbha for heat wave. An orange alert is issued when a heatwave is likely to persist for more than four days or a severe heatwave for more than two days. There is a high risk of heat-related illnesses such as a heat stroke for people exposed to the sun for prolonged hours or doing heavy work; children, elderly and people with chronic diseases are also vulnerable. IMD has suggested people avoid heat exposure and stay hydrated.“Dry and hot north-westerly are blowing from the land. There are also clear skies. A western disturbance is affecting the Western Himalayan region now but it’s very feeble and is affecting only the hills. Heatwave conditions will intensify and continue till May 28,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre.There are two criteria for a heatwave — when the maximum temperature is at least 40°C and between 4.5°C and 6.4°C higher than the normal; or when maximum temperature is over 45°C for two stations in a sub-division for two consecutive days. A severe heatwave is declared when maximum temperature is at least 40°C and more than 6.4°C higher than the normal; or when the maximum temperature is more than 47°C.On Friday, heatwave conditions were recorded in some parts of west Rajasthan and in pockets of Haryana, Delhi, east Rajasthan and Vidarbha. The highest maximum temperature of 46.6°C was reported at Churu in west Rajasthan, about 250km from Delhi. Meanwhile extremely heavy rainfall (more than 20 cm) was reported in parts of Meghalaya for the past two days. Sohra or Cherrapunji recorded 33 cm rain on Friday.Under the influence of converging strong south-westerly winds from the Bay of Bengal, Northeast India is likely to experience heavy to very heavy rainfall with extremely heavy falls from May 25 to 27. There is an orange alert for heavy rain in Arunachal Pradesh from May 24 to 27 and red alert for Assam and Meghalaya on May 26 and 27. A red alert implies that authorities should take action to prevent any disaster due to extremely heavy rains.“There is a very strong wind convergence in the northeast. Winds from Bay of Bengal are also bringing in a lot of moisture there. Meghalaya, particularly, has been receiving a lot of rain. On Saturday also Sohra or Cherrapunji received more than 20 cm rain,” said Devi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heatwave-here-till-next-week-imd-issues-alert/story-9TL3GRjo82mJ5WcEWyR3tM.html
24-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Clinical trials bring hope, concerns||Mixed results from clinical trials of several promising treatments and vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) released this week brought both cheer and gloom to a world desperate for a safe and effective treatment or vaccine against a disease that has infected at least 5.3 million people and killed 340,000.At least 100 vaccines are being developed against Sars-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, with many using new platforms that have not been used in a licensed vaccine before. Vaccines work by training the body’s adaptive immune system to recognise and neutralise invading viruses, bacteria and other pathogens to prevent infection.HydroxychloroquineIn the absence of a treatment or vaccine, one of the major drugs being repurposed to treat this new disease against which humans have no immunity are anti-malarial drugs, hydoxychloroquine and chloroquine, which US President Donald Trump said he has been popping daily to prevent infection.On Friday, a study of 96,000 hospitalised patients in six continents published in The Lancet journal delivered the disappointing news that those treated with the drug had a significantly higher risk of death compared with those who were not. The drug raised the risk of irregular heart rhythm (arrhythmia) that can lead to sudden cardiac death, concluded the largest analysis on the risks and benefits of treating Covid-19 patients with hydroxychloroquine.India is the world’s biggest producer of hydroxychloroquine, which is approved for use as a prophylaxis to be given to asymptomatic health workers and contacts of Covid-19 patients since March 23. This was expanded to include frontline workers from May 22.“Several studies are underway in India, and, as the results emerge, we shall be able to provide more insights into the experiences locally. However, early reports from the pharmacovigilance programme indicate that there are no unexpected spikes of adverse reactions from the use of hydroxychloroquine in the country,” said health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, in an interview to HT earlier this week.“As a prophylactic drug, the medicine has shown results in India, which is why it is advised for a larger group now. The Lancet paper that has come out will have implications for treatment regimen, not prophylaxis,” said an official from India’s apex research organisation, the Indian Council of Medical Research, which led a hospital-based retrospective study that found the drug protected healthworkers working on Covid-19 isolation wards from infection.RemdesivirRemdesivir became the only drug to receive an emergency-use authorisation in the US to treat Covid-19 after early data showed it shortened recovery time from 15 days to 11 days in hospitalised adults with lower respiratory tract infection. A study of 1,063 patients that included 538 who received remdesivir and 521 who were given a placebo showed death in the remdesivir group was 7.1%, compared to 11.9% for the placebo group, but it brought no benefits for severely ill patients on mechanical ventilation, who are at highest risk of death, according to a study published in the New England Journal of Medicine.“These findings support the use of remdesivir in this population, with the largest benefit observed among individuals who required oxygen supplementation but were not mechanically ventilated. We anticipate that results from our Phase 3 SIMPLE-Severe study [randomised, open-label, multicentric trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of two dosing durations – 5 days and 10 days – of remdesivir in adults diagnosed with Covid-19], which is evaluating remdesivir in a similar population of Covid-19 patients requiring oxygen but not on mechanical ventilation, will be published in the near future. These data from the SIMPLE-Severe study support treatment of some patients for 5 days rather than 10 days, depending on clinical status,” said the drug’s manufacturer Gilead Sciences, in a statement.Fewer people get severely ill from Covid-19 in India, and fewer need ventilation support. Of the around 70,000 people currently infected with Covid-19, 2.94% are on oxygen support and 0.45% are on ventilators, according to data from the Union health ministry .Gilead Sciences has signed non-exclusive voluntary licensing agreements with four generic pharma companies -- Jubilant Life Sciences, Cipla, Hetero Labs, and Mylan – for manufacture and distribution of remdesivir to 127 countries, including India. The promoters of HT Media Ltd, which publishes Hindustan Times, and Jubilant Life Sciences are closely related. There are, however, no promoter cross-holdings.Oxford vaccineFollowing preclinical animal studies showing Oxford University’s ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 vaccine protected six monkeys from pneumonia, recruitment of around 10,260 adults and children has begun to assess the immune response to the vaccine across ages. The vaccine is made from a weakened version of a common cold adenovirus (ChAdOx1) that causes infection in chimpanzees, and has been genetically changed so it cannot cause infection in humans.“The Covid-19 vaccine trial team has been working hard on assessing the safety and immunogenicity of ChAdOx1 nCoV-19, and preparing to assess vaccine efficacy. We have had a lot of interest already from people over the age of 55 years who were not eligible to take part in the Phase I study, and we will now be able to include older age groups to continue the vaccine assessment,” said Sarah Gilbert, professor of vaccinology at the Jenner Institute at Oxford University, on Friday.Oxford University has licensed the experimental vaccine to AstraZeneca, with who the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) is in talks about mass production. “Our discussion with AstraZeneca is ongoing and we can comment further once the deal is concluded. However, we can certainly say that we will be able to provide them with more than 100 million doses,” said an SII spokesperson.Sino Biotech vaccineSino Biotech’s inactivated Ad5-vectored Covid-19 vaccine is among at least seven such where teams are using traditional platforms to develop vaccines using a weakened or inactivated form of the virus, such as those used in measles and polio vaccines. The Sino Biotech vaccine was found to be safe, well tolerated, and able to generate an immune response against Sars-CoV-2 in humans, according to new research published in The Lancet.The Ad5 vectored COVID-19 vaccine is the first vaccine to be tested in humans and demonstrated a strong immune response after 28 days in 108 healthy adults. The final results will be evaluated in six months after there is data about how effective and long-lasting the protection is against SARS-CoV-2 infection. If successful, the vaccine will be produced in China and, as of now, India has no role in its development and production.Moderna vaccineModerna announced earlier this week that its experimental vaccine mRNA-1273 produced virus-neutralising antibodies at levels similar to those found in recovered patients. It said early data showed the vaccine raised the levels of neutralising antibodies in eight vaccinated people to levels found in the convalescent plasma of recovered patients.The vaccine is the most advanced among at least 20 experimental nucleic acid vaccines against Covid-19 in various stages of clinical development that use the messenger RNA (mRNA) platform to elicit an immune response against Sars-CoV-2, according to the World Health Organization (WHO)’s draft landscape of Covid-19 candidate vaccines. If it is approved, it will be the first messenger RNA (mRNA) vaccine against any disease in the world.The US-based company, however, is drawing flak for not publishing data in a peer-reviewed medical journal. Moderna has developed the vaccine in partnership with US National Institute for Allergy and Infectious Diseases, which is expected to publish the data .Moderna has never brought a vaccine to market, though it has several vaccines in the pipeline.“This is not the most advanced mRNA vaccine being developed by Moderna, they have started others much earlier. Some are more advanced in terms of actual development (phase 2) but none are approved so far,” said Dr Anurag Agrawal, director, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-Institute of Genomics & Integrative Biology, New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clinical-trials-bring-hope-concerns/story-qX1bLG4pKiUw9e9cjqjUnJ.html
24-05-2020||India||Bengal parties spar over cyclone relief||Snigdhendu.Bhattacharya@htlive.comKolkata: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s West Bengal unit chief, Dilip Ghosh, was on Saturday prevented from visiting a cyclone-hit area even as chief minister Mamata Banerjee underlined it was not the time to do politics and her Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders echoed her.“If there is no politics, why was our state president stopped from visiting an affected area?” asked BJP’s national secretary, Rahul Sinha. He said the administration did not stop Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Kanti Ganguly from visiting Sunderbans a day before the cyclone hit the state for carrying out relief work there.No one from TMC agreed to comment but an official said Ghosh was stopped because of the Covid-19 protocol. “...even during restoration and relief, we have to keep in mind the Covid-19 protocols about social distancing. His presence would have led to the gathering of a crowd.” TMC and BJP have been involved in a bitter political fight in the state, where assembly polls are due next year. The tensions escalated in April after the Centre blamed the state’s government for mismanagement of the Covid-19 situation. The BJP emerged as TMC’s principal opponent in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections when it bagged 18 of the state’s 42 seats. The TMC won 22 seats.TMC secretary-general and minister Partha Chatterjee said Banerjee has instructed that politics should take the back seat. “...we should all focus on restoring normalcy, standing united.”Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury separately said the Rs 1,000 crore advance assistance Prime Minister Narendra Modi announcement during his visit to the cyclone-hit state on Friday is insufficient given the extent of the devastation. He also said the state government lacked preparedness to deal with the cyclone.TMC leader Derek O’Brien said he did not have the details of the assistance. “But I do have the details of the money already owed to Bengal, which has nothing to do with the cyclone. The total is Rs 53,000 crore, of which Rs 36,000 crore is due under the central schemes...”The BJP on social media hailed Modi for visiting the state soon after the devastation and announcing the immediate assistance .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-parties-spar-over-cyclone-relief/story-axaneRV8UQpnqKE2djGTcM.html
24-05-2020||India||Experts raise concern over Ladakh face-off||The tense confrontation between Indian and Chinese forces along the disputed border in eastern Ladakh and the accompanying military build-up is vastly different from previous standoffs that plunged bilateral relations to new lows, people familiar with the ongoing scrap said on Saturday.The latest standoff along the line of actual control (LAC) is not confined to a small area, has triggered a worrying increase in troop numbers on both sides at multiple locations, has seen higher levels of aggression (especially by the Chinese), and seems to suggest a greater design rather than adventurism by a local commander, army officials and China watchers say.While the army has refused to reveal specifics of the standoff, Indian and Chinese soldiers are said to beeyeball-to-eyeball at four different locations in the sensitive sector and the total number of soldiers on both sides at these flashpoints is estimated to be around 3,000.Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane made a low-key visit to Ladakh on Friday for a security review as tensions grew between India and China near Pangong Tso and three pockets in the Galwan Valley region where Chinese troops have pitched close to 100 tents and erected temporary structures to establish a presence.The possibility of Chinese soldiers constructing bunkers in some disputed areas cannot be ruled out, officials said. Reports have suggested that the Chinese side has deployed troops, vehicles and heavy equipment, involved in a military exercise in the area, to the Ladakh sector .China’s state-run media has described the latest tensions as the worst since the 2017 Doklam standoff, which lasted 73 days.Soldiers on both sides are showing restraint and local commanders are meeting almost daily to de-escalate, said a senior army official on the condition of anonymity. He said the spread of the standoff to multiple locations on the LAC was a cause of concern and every development in the area was being monitored closely. “What we are witnessing in eastern Ladakh is different from what we saw in Depsang (2013), Chumar (2014) and even Doklam (2017). The previous episodes were localised. This one is not. Also, it appears to have been planned at a higher level,” said Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd), who was the Northern Army commander when Indian and Chinese soldiers were caught in a tense standoff in Ladakh’s Chumar sector in September 2014.The Chumar standoff began after Indian forces found that Chinese troops had deployed heavy machinery to construct a temporary road inside Indian territory. Also, Indian soldiers were eyeball-to-eyeball with Chinese troops in Ladakh’s Depsang area for three weeks in April-May 2013 after Chinese troops set up tents and took up positions 19 km into Indian side of line of actual control (LAC).“It is difficult to gauge the next move of the Chinese. If the statements made by the foreign ministries of the two countries are any indicator, it seems the current confrontation could carry on for a while,” said a China expert.Hooda doubted that the standoff could be resolved at the local level. “It will require political direction and diplomatic intervention,” he said.India on Thursday rejected China’s allegation that Indian troops initiated tensions and crossed the LAC in the Ladakh and Sikkim sectors and accused the Chinese army of hindering patrols on the Indian side.China’s foreign ministry first accused Indian troops of trespassing across the LAC in a statement last week, saying Beijing had to take “necessary countermeasures” after the Indian Army allegedly obstructed normal patrols by Chinese troops.A government spokesperson on Thursday said, “Any suggestion that Indian troops had undertaken activity across the LAC in the western [Ladakh] sector or the Sikkim sector is not accurate.”HT was the first to report on May 10 about tensions flaring up between India and China in north Sikkim where 150 soldiers were involved in a tense standoff a day earlier. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured at Naku La during the confrontation.Scores of soldiers from the two countries clashed near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5-6 and several of them were injured in the scuffle that involved around 250 men. While a flare-up was avoided as both armies stuck to protocols to resolve the situation, tensions quickly spread to other parts of eastern Ladakh, including the Galwan Valley area, with both sides establishing their land claims aggressively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-raise-concern-over-ladakh-face-off/story-aBO9AseblUMDZxWvAU5jgN.html
24-05-2020||India||In Gujarat, Congress, BJP spar over ventilators||The Congress on Saturday demanded a judicial probe into the alleged use of “non-approved” ventilators for Covid-19 patients in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled Gujarat. It alleged the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) had not approved the ventilators and as a result the Covid-19-related mortality rate is the highest at the Ahmedabad Civil hospital where these machines were installed.Congress spokesman Pawan Khera said almost six weeks after Dhaman-1 ventilators were installed at the hospital on April 4, doctors there sought more saying these machines did not work. He alleged the BJP government projected a mechanised AMBU (Artificial Manual Breathing Unit) bag as a ventilator.“They played with the lives of patients. Why was Dhaman-1 approved and installed when it had been tested on just one patient and without a licence by DCGI?” Khera asked. “We also want to know if the PM Cares Fund [to deal with the pandemic] was used to buy 5,000 pieces of Dhaman-1 through [the state-owned] HLL Lifecare. All these answers can be found through an independent judicial inquiry.”Gujarat’s principal secretary (health) Jayanti Ravi responded to the charges, saying the first batch of 10 ventilators was tested, certified and supplied on April 18. “Jyoti CNC [the manufacturer] supplied 866 ventilators free of cost to the Gujarat government when the entire world was facing shortage of ventilators.”Ravi added Dhaman-1 and other ventilators do not need DCGI licenses. “The [Union] ministry of health and family welfare issued a notification on February 11, 2020, effect from April 1, 2020, that lists 37 medical equipments that require the manufacturers to obtain licenses for their products. Ventilators are not a part of this list...”Ravi said Jyoti CNC produced the ventilators based on standards of Bureau of Indian Standards. She added Dhaman-1 fits the necessary standards the Centre has set. She added the company had taken necessary approvals from a state government agency. Ravi said trials are done of medicines and medical equipment not ventilators. “The indigenously produced ventilator underwent the performance test and it showed positive results.”Ravi said a live demonstration of the ventilator was held at the Civil Hospital on April 9 and the company incorporated the necessary changes suggested. “It is absolutely amoral to put allegations of corruption...”Khera asked chief minister Vijay Rupani why Gujarat had “such shocking data” on Covid-19 patients. He said 11% of the total coronavirus cases and 22% of deaths related to the disease in the country were reported from Gujarat. “Why this high mortality? Why the high mortality in Ahmedabad in particular...why the highest mortality is in the civil hospital, where these machines were installed?” Khera alleged the machines were donated under corporate social responsibility funds by a company in which a Surat-based businessman, who donated the monogrammed suit to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, which he wore during former US President Barack Obama’s visit to India in 2015, has a stake. He asked why Dhaman-1 was marketed within and outside the state as a ventilator when it is not one. “Why Dhaman-1 was allowed to be sold to other states and why HLL Lifecare, a PSU [public sector undertaking], was allowed to order 5,000 pieces.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-gujarat-cong-bjp-spar-over-ventilators/story-mj2sJ0CD2w9aeWBWEv2lZN.html
24-05-2020||India||Migrants protest lack of food, water||Migrant workers travelling on Shramik special trains allegedly damaged railway property at separate places in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday while protesting against scarcity of food, water and unscheduled stoppage during their travel, officials said.Unnao district magistrate Ravindra Kumar said the migrants complained that a Bengaluru-Darbhanga (Bihar) train, which had left for its destination four days back, was running much behind the schedule and even toilets had no water. Officials said the passengers threw stones, damaged furniture and the station master’s room at the Unnao railway station when the train halted there for over an hour. They said the railway protection force and government railway police personnel pacified the passengers before the train started its onward journey.Officials said the workers allegedly damaged benches and threw stones on the railway property at Ajgain and Sonik railway stations when the train stopped there. The workers were again pacified and assured of all possible help.Residents ran away from their houses when around 1,000 workers entered a residential area looking for water after another special train headed to Chapra in Bihar from Dadri (Mumbai) arrived at the Kanchausi railway station in Uttar Pradesh’s Auraiya.Stationmaster Vishambhar Dayal Pandey said the train was stopped for two hours to let superfast trains pass first. The local police had a tough time in getting the workers out of the residential area.Migrants also protested over Vishakhapatnam-Muzaffarpur Shramik train’s unscheduled five-hour stoppage at Uttar Pradesh’s Pt Deendayal Upadhyay Junction (Mughalsarai), a railway police officer said. Senior officials rushed to the spot and pacified the migrants. Passengers of a Deoghar-bound train from Ahmedabad also joined the protest. Government railway police inspector RK Singh said the migrants were angry as the train was halted.The Vasai Road-Gorakhpur Shramik train to Uttar Pradesh, which left Mumbai on Thursday, was diverted to a different route via Odisha due to heavy traffic congestion.Indian Railways on Saturday said it will ferry another 3.6 million migrant labourers stranded across the country because of the Covid-19 lockdown on 2,600 Shramik trains over the next 10 days and will continue running such trains till all of them reach their homes. Railway officials said that till Saturday as many as 4.5 million have been ferried on the special trains since their launch on May 1. The trains were launched as migrant workers left jobless because of the lockdown imposed in late March to check the Covid-19 spread were forced to walk or cycle back to their homes. Many of them have continued to do so despite these trains and buses that were arranged for them in late April. In some cases, migrant workers have been unable to travel on these trains for the want of identity documents. Officials said about 80% of the Shramik trains so far have transported migrant workers to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, India’s two most populous states where the bulk of the workforce comes from. As per the 2011 Census, around 40 million workers migrate for work within the country annually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrants-protest-lack-of-food-water/story-qjDHLiBSDafnJAolRSX4pI.html
24-05-2020||India||Firefighters rescue 8 Covid patients after hospital fire||Eight Covid-19 patients were rescued by firefighters after a fire broke out at a private hospital designated for treatment of Covid-19 patients in south Delhi’s Hauz Khas on Saturday evening. All patients are safe and were handed over to the hospital staff for further care, senior fire department officials said. This is the first time the Delhi Fire Service (DFS) team had to pull off a rescue operation of people infected with the highly contagious Sars-Cov-2 virus. The rescued included five men and three women.Atul Garg, director, DFS, said the rescue operation was a big challenge but was carried out efficiently with none of the patients sustaining any burn injury.He said the probable cause of the fire was a short-circuit in an air-conditioner in the operation theatre. “We received a call around 5.45pm reporting that Cygnus Orthocare hospital opposite IIT-Delhi campus has caught fire. Five fire tenders were rushed to the hospital to contain the fire and later three more units had to be sent,” Garg said.“Our firefighters found that it was a three-storey building with a basement. We found that fire started in an operation theatre on the third floor. Ensuring proper precautions, wearing gumboots, gloves, goggles, helmet and fire suits, our men entered the hospital in two teams, with three men in each team,” Garg said.He said because of the smoke, his men were wearing breathing apparatuses to be able to locate those trapped inside. “After successfully locating the patients, our firefighters guided them out of the building,” Garg said.The team that was involved in the rescue operation said that it was only upon reaching the hospital that they got to know that there were Covid-19 patients admitted there. Sumesh Kumar Dua, divisional officer, who led the rescue operation, said the focus of his team was to evacuate the occupants safely.“We have dealt with all kinds of rescue operations, but this was a first of its kind. It was natural for us to be a bit scared. We, too, are human but all that we had in mind was to safely get everyone out of the building and to douse the flames,” Dua said.He said the firefighters were attired in their helmets, gumboots and overalls, apart from masks and gloves. The team was directed to follow all Covid-19 safety protocol such as avoiding contact with the patients' faces to prevent any infection possibility.“The fire was doused in less than an hour and afterwards, the team was thoroughly sanitised, and so were the tenders and equipment used,” Dua said.Cygnus Orthocare Hospital said that there was no major damage was reported in the fire.“…The fire was first reported on the third floor of the hospital, which houses the operation theatres. The Delhi Fire Services along with the hospital’s fire division have controlled the fire and are still on the job. There has been no loss or damage to life,” said Dr Amit Vig, unit head, Ujala Cygnus Orthocare Hospital.Without specifying details of where the eight coronavirus positive patients were moved to, Dr Vig said all of them were moved to “safe areas”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/firefighters-rescue-8-covid-patients-after-hospital-fire/story-JXIE5724dmkTHoL0ozUSQI.html
24-05-2020||India||2.6k migrant trains to run over 10 days||Indian Railways on Saturday said it will ferry another 3.6 million migrant labourers stranded across the country because of the Covid-19 lockdown on 2,600 Shramik special trains over the next 10 days and will continue running such trains till all of them reach their homes. “I want to assure all migrant workers that we will run these trains till all of them reach their destinations,” Railway Board chairman Vinod Kumar Yadav said at a press conference.Yadav said that given the demand for more Shramik specials, 50% of train coaches that were modified as Covid-care facilities will now be used to run them since they remain unutilized. He added that these coaches could be reconverted into care centres again if needed.Railways converted over 5,000 wagons into care centres to augment the country’s health infrastructure to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. Railway officials said that till Saturday, as many as 4.5 million have been ferried on the special trains since their launch on May 1. The trains were launched as migrant workers left jobless because of the lockdown imposed in late March to check the Covid-19 spread were forced to walk or cycle back to their homes. Many of them have continued to do so despite these trains and buses that were arranged for them in late April. In some cases, migrant workers have been unable to travel on these trains for the want of identity documents. Officials said about 80% of the Shramik trains so far have transported migrant workers to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, India’s two most populous states where the bulk of the workforce comes from. Punya Salila Srivastava, joint secretary, Union home ministry, who also addressed the press conference, cited the 2011 Census and said around 40 million workers migrate for work within the country annually. She added that at least four million migrant workers have also travelled on interstate buses to get back home since the lockdown began.Railways plans a gradual resumption of regular passenger services with 200 trains from June 1. These are apart from 15 pairs of premier Rajdhani special trains deployed to address the rising demand for interstate travel with the easing of the lockdown restrictions.“...we decided to run these 200 trains daily from June 1 after studying a pattern. Till now 17 lakh [1.7 million] tickets have already been booked. We have also decided to open all our booking windows as well as [ticket] stalls at all our 6,000 stations so that people do not have difficulties in getting tickets,” Yadav said. He added full resumption of the services may take some time.Yadav said Railways has moved over double the quantity of essential commodities in around 1.35 million wagons from March 24, when the lockdown was announced, till May 22 as compared to the same period last year. He added railways has provided 4.7 million free packets of meals to passengers and other needy people.He said 17 railway hospitals have been converted into independent Covid-19 care facilities and 5,000 beds made available across their network for patients and to quarantine up to 10,500 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-6k-migrant-trains-to-run-over-10-days/story-it6vZ1RzspEFaVQVf12paP.html
24-05-2020||India||Karnataka, Punjab, Kerala order 14-day quarantine after flight||A Delhi business executive who has an all-important business meeting in Bengaluru can now fly to the southern city -- domestic airline services are being restored from Monday -- but faces the prospect of a seven-day quarantine at a state-run institution and another seven days out of it.To avoid it, travellers will have to provide a Covid-19 negative certificate from an Indian Council of Medical Research approved laboratory , based on a test and dated two days before the date of travel.Karnataka, Punjab, and Kerala have decided on a 14-day quarantine for domestic passengers, with variations. Karnataka’s is restricted to travellers from areas with a high incidence (such as Delhi); Punjab and Kerala have mandated a 14-day quarantine for anyone entering the state on any means of transport.Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Telangana are also considering quarantines.While the Ministry of Civil Aviation last week allowed states to formulate their own procedures regarding passenger movement, civil minister Hardeep Puri hasrepeatedly emphasized that those taking domestic flights need not (and should not) be quarantined.“We have clarified that if anyone has the Aarogya Setu app, it’s like a passport and you are safe; why should anybody want any quarantine,” Puri said in a Facebook live discussion on Saturday. His reference is to the government’s contact-tracing app that has been downloaded by 1.2 million people and which is recommended, although not mandatory, for anyone wishing to travel by plane, or train.But the states do not seem to be listening.In a statement on Saturday, Karnataka said passengers travelling from high incidence zones, such as Delhi, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, will have to stay under institutional (state-run) quarantine for a period of seven days and home quarantine for another seven days. Those flying in from states not considered high incidence zones will be home quarantined for 14 days. Medical professionals, members of the defence services, paramilitary and railway services will also be home quarantined for 14 days.However, businesspersons travelling with a Covid-19 negative test certificate from an Indian Council of Medical Research-approved lab two days before the date of travel will not be quarantined.An official in the Andhra Pradesh government told Hindustan Time that the state is considering following “the Karnataka line”. “We want to be a little careful about people coming from Ahmedabad, Chennai, Mumbai and Delhi since we can’t quarantine a very large number of people,” the official said, “but we are yet to decide.”The official added that the state was earlier considering taking swab samples of all those flying in, along with a form to collect their details. “In 24 hours, we would have informed them if they were at high risk and needed to go to a hospital, others could have been home quarantined. But after seeing the Karnataka order, we are reviewing how to go about it. We should know by Sunday morning.”The Punjab government has also announced a 14-day home quarantine for those entering the state via flight, train or bus. Chief Minister Capt. Amarinder Singh on Saturday said that rapid testing teams would check on all who have been home quarantined within a period of 14 days to ensure no “violation” and “strict compliance of rules”.Those travelling to Kerala, an official in the chief minister’s office said will be home quarantined for 14 days. “If any of them show symptoms then they will be immediately sent to a hospital.”A senior official in Telangana said that the matter is still “under discussion” .Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has asked the Civil Aviation Ministry to make a 14-day quarantine period at a state or paid facility mandatory for all those taking domestic flights.It is unlikely that the civil aviation ministry will intervene although what’s needed would appear to be a universal set of guidelines applicable across India.“States have been given the option to take their own decisions,” said an official in the aviation ministry who asked not to be named. “Many (states) were on board with opening the domestic airspace, we hope other states will realise that a mandatory quarantine will not make sense.”Airlines such as Air India and Spicejet are planning to resume operations starting Monday. Spicejet will be flying passengers to and fro from 41 destinations. Air India will be operating 102 flights as of now. Spicejet will be operating 204 daily and 1431 flights every week. Representatives of both airlines said that a reasonable number of bookings have been made for Monday. “We expect very good bookings over the next few weeks,” an Air India representative said. “The response has been more than satisfactory.”Vistara spokesperson did not respond to requests for comment and IndiGo representatives could not be reached for comment. A GoAir spokesperson said the airlines is set to resume operations from June 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/k-taka-punjab-kerala-order-14-day-quarantine-after-flight/story-9NMdO2SoUKlm2l0BnZbUxI.html
24-05-2020||India||Covid-19 economic proposal stokes controversy, redrafted||A group of economists, intellectuals and activists on Saturday redrafted their seven-point ‘Mission Jai Hind’ proposal to deal with the Covid-19 crisis after one of their suggestions of treating all resources of the nation and its citizens -- cash, real estate, property and bonds -- as national resources triggered a controversy. Some of the plan’s signatories also opposed the idea.The controversial part was changed to say the government “must explore emergency ways of raising resources going beyond the usual set of taxes and levies to cope with the problem of funding large relief packages”. The group has also proposed universal access to ration, free healthcare, employment guarantee, compensation for job losses, a moratorium on interest payments, and transportation of stranded migrants to their homes.Swaraj India national president Yogendra Yadav, who is one of the signatories of the plan, said the contentious clause 7.1 has attracted undue attention and interpreted to mean a call for nationalisation/expropriation of private property. He called this far from their intention while hoping the focus will remain on the plan outlined to “address health, economic & humanitarian crisis”.In a series of tweets, historian Ramachandra Guha, another signatory, said he did not endorse the clause 7.1. “The Mission Jai Hind Statement that was sent to me had this broad statement of principle as clause 7.1, which I approved, namely: ‘All resources within the nation are national resources, available for this mission’,” he tweeted. “The published version had a radically different clause 7.1: ‘All the resources (cash, real estate, property, bonds, etc) with the citizens or within the nation must be treated as national resources available during this crisis.’ I have not and do not endorse this.” “This clause, that has become deeply tendentious with the major changes made without the consent of some signatories, has taken attention away from the many sensible suggestions made in the Statement,” Guha added in a third tweet.Maitreesh Ghatak, a professor at the London School of Economics who also endorsed the proposal, said the controversial point had raised “some legitimate questions about what we mean”. “It is not intended to be confiscatory or to advocate large-scale nationalisation. All it means is that in crisis situations... the government has to explore emergency ways of raising resources going beyond the usual set of taxes and levies,” he tweeted. Guha called the reformulated point “extremely appropriate” and added all controversy should now be set at rest. “I trust that fellow citizens shall focus on the many important recommendations in our plan and will urge Central and State Governments to implement it.”In a press release, the group said the government’s stimulus package announced this month to deal with the fallout from the coronavirus pandemic has “virtually” ignored the urgent need for economic support to ordinary citizens whose lives and livelihoods have been shattered. Economist Shamika Ravi, a former member of the Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory Council, hit out at the controversial proposal. “Such ‘leading economists’ have done enough damage already in this country. This document is an assault on private property in India,” Ravi tweeted.Bharatiya Janata Party’s national media panellist, Tuhin A Sinha, called it a devious plan to legitimise usurping of private property and assets.Other signatories of the proposal include former member of now-defunct Planning Commission Abhijit Sen, former chief economic advisor Deepak Nayyar, Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) professor Jayati Ghosh, JNU associate professor Himanshu, Azim Premji University associate professor Amit Basole, social activists Jean Drèze and Harsh Mander and academic Rajmohan Gandhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-economic-proposal-stokes-controversy-redrafted/story-ydCFhYEwnFoueocrwbhn6M.html
24-05-2020||India||Driven by courage: Meet the specially-abled riders who are going the extra mile to help others||The willingness to help others makes these riders special! They didn’t let physical disabilities stop them from standing by the needy. Called Eagle Specially Abled Riders, this group is providing rations to security guards, rickshaw pullers, homeless people and migrant labourers in Delhi. Founded by Ameer Siddiqui, the group is trying to create a chain that reaches distressed people. Siddiqui says, “ We are a group of 15 persons with disabilities from Delhi, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. All of us suffer from Post Polio Residual Paralysis but that has never stopped us from serving others. The world is fighting against a deadly enemy and in such a situation, each one of us should be willing to come forward and help others.”Last year, the group travelled from Delhi to Mumbai on retro fitted scooters as part of the world’s longest accessible awareness ride. “Through that ride, we wanted to show the world that nothing is impossible in life if one has the courage. To fight against corona, we need to be courageous too,” says Siddiqui. The rider says that due to discrimination against them, a large number of specially-abled people depend on NGOs for lodging, food, and clothing. These organisations rest on donations and charities. But during quarantine and social distancing, it has been particularly tough arranging for ration and essentials.He says, “Being disabled myself, I understand the plight of my brothers well. The lockdown has been the hardest on differently abled people. But our organisation has been helping in all ways possible. Initially we started with putting Rs 500 in the accounts of other handicapped people so that they could buy ration on their own. But with the lockdown extension, we took the help of other NGOs and self -help groups in distributing ration, face masks, sanitisers and soaps. We even distributed these to police officers, security guards and the underprivileged people such as rickshaw pullers, beggars, homeless and migrant workers.”He adds, “NGOs can’t reach to help handicapped people in many remote areas, but we have managed to reach and assist them. We are trying to create a chain of compassion, love and care.” The name Eagle Specially Abled Riders has a thought behind it. Ameer believes that specially-abled individuals dream of flying as high as eagles and their group makes sure that those dreams are not shattered.The riders’ indomitable spirit has overpowered their physical disabilities, and has infused courage and will power among many others to fight this deadly virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/extending-a-helping-hand/story-LwOtL7SSuXsnRHwMF5KGlJ.html
24-05-2020||India||Farm sector, poised to grow by 3%, remains beacon of hope amid pandemic||Fresh indicators show the country’s farm sector, which employs nearly half the population, has coped well with the Covid-19 crisis, with a larger summer crop area than last year, higher sales of fertilisers and seeds, and better prices, leading Reserve Bank Governor Shaktikanta Das to call it a “beacon of hope”.The farm sector is poised to grow at least 3% in 2020-21, despite disruption in the economy due to the coronavirus pandemic, which will aid overall growth, according to state-run think-tank Niti Aayog’s assessment in April. There are other indicators too, ranging from sowing to input sales, which show the agriculture economy is heading into the summer-sown or kharif operations in decent shape. Farmers have planted rice in about 3.48 million hectares (1 hectare equals 2.4 acre) compared to 2.52 million hectares during the corresponding period of last year, an increase of nearly 37%, official data as on May 21 show.The area under pulses -- a major summer crop with up to 70% share in farm incomes in some state – stands at nearly 1.28 million hectares against 0.96 million hectares during the same period of last year, which is higher by one-third (33%).Coarse cereals or millets occupied 1.028 million hectares compared to 0.73 million hectares during the corresponding period of last year, or 42% higher.The area under oilseeds has reached about 0.92 million hectares compared to 0.73 million hectares during this time last year.“The main reason for robust sowing is that rainfall activity has been fairly decent, indicating a good monsoon in the coming months,” said Abhishek Agrawal, a commodity analyst with Comtrade Ltd. Reserve Bank Governor Shaktikanta Das, while cutting the lending policy rate by 40 basis points (0.4 percentage points) to prop up growth, Friday said developments in the country’s farm sector would have a “salutary effect” on the rural economy.“Amidst this encircling gloom, agriculture and allied activities have provided a beacon of hope on the back of an increase of 3.7% in foodgrains production to a new record (as per the third advance estimates of the Ministry of Agriculture released on May 15, 2020),” Das said.“By May 10, 2020, up to which latest information is available, kharif (monsoon or summer crop) sowing was higher by 44% over last year’s acreage. Rabi (winter crop) procurement is in full flow in respect of oilseeds, pulses and wheat, benefiting from the bumper harvest. These developments will support farm incomes, improve the terms of trade facing the farm sector and strengthen food security for the country. Going forward, these would also have a salutary effect on food price pressures,” he added in the course of a digital video statement on Friday. Fertiliser sales, an indicator of demand of farm-inputs from farmers, have been higher by 5% during the first four months of 2020, according to official data. Farm inputs refer to all raw materials a farmer needs for cultivation.Sound farm growth could cushion the overall sharp decline in growth expected this year. RBI on Friday indicated that India could see its economy shrink for the first time in 40 years. The International Monetary Fund earlier this month slashed its 2010-21 growth projection for India to 1.9% from 5.8% estimated in January. Barclays said it saw 0% growth, while the World Bank cut India’s growth forecast to 1.5-2.8% from 6.1% earlier. Investment bank Goldman Sachs expects the economy to shrink 5%. To be sure, the lockdown to slow the spread of the coronavirus disease imposed on March 25, and still continuing, though several restrictions have been eased, did hamper farm produce sales and many producers of perishables have said they face losses. And during its the initial days, labour shortage and shut markets led farmers to dump new harvest, especially perishables items.Of the 2069 nationally important agricultural wholesale markets in the country, less than 500 were functioning during the first weeks of the lockdown. Within agriculture, restrictions especially hurt the animal husbandry sector, which accounts for 5% of the country’s GDP. Rumours that chicken were a carrier of the novel coronavirus tanked poultry sales.The latest optimism comes amid a 44% rise in summer sowing compared to last year and widespread procurement of winter produce. Procurement refers to the government’s buying of farm produce at statutory minimum prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-sector-a-beacon-of-hope-in-economic-gloom/story-YEsFZcYnq76VGI41ic5zzM.html
24-05-2020||India||Sikkim reports first Covid-19 case after man who returned from Delhi tests positive||Sikkim on Saturday reported its first Covid-19 positive case after a man who recently returned from Delhi tested positive.The 25-year-old man, who arrived in Sikkim on May 19, was sent to a quarantine centre along with 11 others. On May 21, he developed fever and was shifted to STNM Hospital in Gangtok on Friday.His swab sample was collected and sent to the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital in Siliguri, West Bengal. Till Saturday night, 1707 people were tested in the Himalayan state.“The 25-year-old man tested Covid-19 positive,” said state health secretary Pempa Bhutia. Bhutia said the man from a South Sikkim district was staying at Haiderpur in Delhi as a paying guest along with six others and was attending coaching classes for UPSC examinations.“All those who returned with him are in quarantine. They will be tested too,” Bhutia said over phone from Gangtok. The driver of the bus which ferried these people from Siliguri to Sikkim will also be tested.The development came a day after the state government announced that classes for students from Class 9 to university level would resume from June 15. With this Sikkim becomes the first state in the country to partially open educational institutions.Chief Minister Prem Singh Tamang had been reiterating that the real challenge would begin after Sikkimese people and students start returning from other states after relaxation of the lockdown. Sikkim was one of the first states to seal inter-state and international borders and ban entry of both domestic and foreign tourists and migrant labourers.Timely and drastic measures had helped Sikkim remain Covid-19 free till Saturday while adjoining Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts in West Bengal witnessed the death of two people. The number of Covid-19 cases in Siliguri and other parts of North Bengal is now on the rise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikkim-reports-first-covid-19-case-after-man-who-returned-from-delhi-tests-positive/story-qNacXjbpP9zWwZT95r4zAM.html
24-05-2020||India||Shaken by Cyclone Amphan, flat owners in this Kolkata building summon engineers||When Cyclone Amphan was battering Kolkata with wind speeds up to 130 km per hour, residents of Subham-Subhasree apartments in east Kolkata’s Hussainpur – Madurdaha had the feeling that their apartment buildings were almost swaying.“I almost jumped out of my bed and was about to rush outside. That’s the first thing that comes to your mind when an earthquake shakes the building. But moments later, I realised that it was not an earthquake but the cyclone which was making the building sway and that I couldn’t go out. I was scared,” Suchismita Biswas, a resident of Subham apartments said.Not only did the building sway during the cyclone but chunks of concrete which had cracked and become loose have also fallen off. The flat owners are now planning to consult a structural engineer for a thorough checkup of the two buildings.“I heard at least two thuds. When the storm stopped and some of us went out to inspect the buildings, we saw that at least two chunks of concrete had fallen off, exposing bricks. A proposal has come up to consult a structural engineer and go for a thorough checkup of the building,” said Biswas.The society comprising two buildings was handed over to the owners in 2015. Apart from the structural damage the cyclone may have caused, there was other damage too. “There was a large tree, very tall, in front of our complex. During the cyclone, a large branch broke off and fell on our gate, damaging the lights at the entrance. A few other branches of some trees located on another plot behind our building also broke off, damaging the wire fencing,” T Samui, another resident said.With the winds coming mainly from the north-eastern and northern directions, the eight flats facing north had to bear the direct brunt of the cyclonic storm. The other eight which face south, were less harmed.One of the sliding window panes of a bedroom in one of the north-facing flats could not take the pressure and came off. Water started gushing in and soon the entire bedroom was filled with ankle-deep water.“We held on to it tightly but water was still gushing in through the sides. The entire bed got drenched. We had to pull down curtains to soak the ankle-deep water and then squeeze it out in the washroom. This had to be done multiple times and our hands were aching. We could hardly sleep that night,” S Ghosh, another resident said.A power outage since Wednesday added to the residents’ woes. The entire area had plunged into darkness after a high tension wire snapped during Cyclone Amphan.“The two buildings are running on generators. We have lodged a complaint with the CESC which supplies power, but no help has arrived till Friday. We don’t know for how long the generator can continue to provide power. It has already started to malfunction,” Samui said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hit-by-cyclone-amphan-kolkata-s-flat-owners-to-consult-engineers-for-safety-of-buildings/story-Kzn1zZFlL2jxASt5qycLNI.html
24-05-2020||India||Promising hints from Chinese Covid-19 vaccine to Oxford trials: Latest from labs||Researchers are racing against time to find treatments and vaccines for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which has affected more than 5.5 million and killed 338,249 people across the world.They are also studying how the virus affects the body and its various organs as it is still spreading across the world. The World Health Organization (WHO) said on Friday that South America has become a new epicentre of the Covid-19 pandemic with Brazil hardest-hit, while cases are rising in some African countries that so far have a relatively low death toll.There are about a dozen experimental Covid-19 vaccines in early stages of human testing or poised to start, mostly in China, the US and Europe. Here is the latest about what has happened in laboratories:CanSino’s vaccine shows promiseA experimental Covid-19 vaccine developed by CanSino Biologics Inc, one of the front-runners in the race to come up with a shot to help end the pandemic, appears to be safe and generated a rapid immune response in its first human trial, Chinese researchers reported on Friday in The Lancet medical journal. First-in-human studies, known as Phase I trials, are primarily designed to test safety. This vaccine did not cause any serious adverse effects, the researchers say, though they did report some side effects such as fever. Furthermore, blood samples from the 108 vaccinated adults showed so-called neutralizing antibodies and T-cell responses against the novel coronavirus, a sign of possible efficacy. “These results represent an important milestone,” coauthor Professor Wei Chen from the Beijing Institute of Biotechnology said in a statement. “The ability to trigger these immune responses does not necessarily indicate that the vaccine will protect humans from Covid-19. We are still a long way from this vaccine being available to all,” the researcher added. Further studies will be needed to confirm whether the vaccine protects against infection. The first such trial is underway in Wuhan, China.Oxford trial progressing ‘very well’Developers of a vaccine at the University of Oxford described their efforts as progressing “very well”, moving to the next phase after completing 1,000 immunisations by its candidate-vaccine on healthy human adults.This came days after reports said that a promising Covid-19 vaccine being developed by the Oxford Vaccine Group showed limited success on monkeys but could fail to prevent transmission of the virus.The human trials were first initiated in April. The next phase, the second in the typical three phases of trials that a vaccine goes through, involves enrolling up to 10,260 adults and children to assess the immune response to the vaccine in people of different ages and assess if there is a variation.The Oxford study is merging Phases II and III for speedier development. Phase III involves assessing how the vaccine works in a large number of people over the age of 18, and how well it prevents people from becoming infected and unwell with Covid-19.HCQ tied to higher death riskThe anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine was tied to an increased risk of death in an observational study of more than 96,000 Covid-19 patients at 671 hospitals on six continents, researchers reported on Friday.According to their paper in The Lancet, it was not clear whether taking the drug provided patients with any benefit.There were 14,888 patients who received hydroxychloroquine or chloroquine, with or without an antibiotic, and 81,144 did not receive those drugs. Randomized placebo-controlled studies are needed to clarify the risks and benefits of the decades-old drug in the treatment of Covid-19, the researchers said. Many such trials are underway. The University of Minnesota may have some results next week, from two studies testing whether hydroxychloroquine is useful for preventing infection in people exposed to the virus and whether it alleviates Covid-19 symptoms. Other placebo-controlled trial results are expected to start later this summer.Blood vessel damageA study published on Thursday in The New England Journal of Medicine helps explain why blood clots develop more often in Covid-19 patients. It appears that the virus can severely damage patients’ blood vessels, causing the blood to clot as it flows past. Researchers found damage to tiny air sacs in the lung called alveoli in studies of lungs from seven patients who died of Covid-19.They also found severe injury to blood vessel linings, which was associated with the virus in the cells of blood vessels and disrupted cell membranes. Compared with the lungs of patients who died of influenza, the Covid-19 lungs had far more extensive injuries. In addition, the healing reaction - a process of new vessel growth called intussusceptive angiogenesis - was 30 times higher than normal in the Covid-19 lungs, study co-author Dr William Li, medical director of the Angiogenesis Foundation, said in a statement. All of these factors contribute to blood clots, his team reports.“One of the great mysteries of Covid-19 has been why blood clots, or thromboses, form in some patients,” Li said.“These clots can become lethal because they severely compromise blood flow not only in the lungs but also in other organs such as the brain and heart, among other tissues. Our research is the first to show that these clots are associated with damaged blood vessels.” Simulated sunlightSimulated sunlight rapidly inactivates the coronavirus on non-porous surfaces like stainless steel, according to researchers from the US department of homeland security science and technology directorate’s National Biodefense Analysis and Countermeasures Center (NBACC). “These results suggest that natural sunlight may be effective for significantly reducing the amount of virus on exposed surfaces, such as mailboxes, playground equipment, and shopping carts left outdoors in the sunlight,” a spokesperson for the researchers told Reuters. While significant reductions of the virus were observed after just a few minutes of simulated sunlight, the risk of exposure from contact with surfaces may not be fully eliminated, the researchers cautioned in the Journal of Infectious Diseases. More research is needed on how much virus is shed onto surfaces from infected individuals, how easily the virus is transferred from surfaces, and what amount is needed to cause infection.Hold off on blanket ‘DNR’ ordersIn the desperate early days of the coronavirus pandemic, reports from China that few critically ill Covid-19 patients could be revived after a cardiac arrest led doctors in some countries to consider issuing blanket “Do Not Resuscitate” orders. But for US Covid-19 patients, at least, that would not be appropriate, researchers said. Researchers wrote in a paper published on Friday in Circulation: Cardiovascular Quality and Outcomes, an American Heart Association journal, that adequate data is not yet available on US survival rates for in-hospital resuscitation of Covid-19 patients and the Chinese data may not be applicable.“Early experience of the pandemic in the US reveals that about a quarter of Covid-19 patients are younger than 50 years of age and otherwise healthy. Cardiac arrest in such patients will likely have a different prognosis” than it would in older patients, researchers said. The study authors are members of the American Heart Association “Get With The Guidelines” Resuscitation Investigators panel.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/promising-hints-from-chinese-covid-19-vaccine-to-oxford-trails-latest-from-labs/story-yh4akhAgkn0WNBdastURVI.html
24-05-2020||India||Doctor dies at Pune’s Sassoon hospital after testing Covid-19 positive||A 56-year old doctor from Maharashtra’s Keshavnagar succumbed to death at Pune’s Sassoon general hospital on Friday after testing positive for Covid-19.He worked as a general medical practitioner at Pune’s Ghorpadi Gaon. The doctor was undergoing treatment for coronavirus and was in a critical condition. He was admitted to Sassoon hospital on May 13 and was declared dead on Friday at 4:30 pm. This is the first death of a doctor in Pune due to Covid-19.“The news of a doctor’s death could lead to fear among the medical community, especially the general physicians, most of whom have already shut their clinics,” Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) chief health officer Dr Ramchandra Hankare said.Also read: Sassoon hospital claims Pune’s first successful plasma therapy for Covid-19 patientAccording to Sassoon hospital’s records, the doctor died due to acute respiratory failure due to Covid-19, positive bilateral pneumonitis, acute respiratory syndrome, myocarditis, and acute kidney injury.The doctor was also one of the first Covid-19 patients who was being administered Tocilizumab, an immunosuppressive drug, which has been recommended against Covid-19.Maharashtra is the country’s worst-hit state when it comes to coronavirus cases. More than 44,000 people have contracted Covid-19 in Maharashtra of which over 27,000 cases come from Mumbai. Thane and Pune are a couple of other badly-hit districts in Maharashtra. Thane has seen over 5,700 Covid-19 cases while in Pune, the tally has jumped to nearly 5,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctor-dies-at-pune-s-sassoon-hospital-after-testing-covid-19-positive/story-etV0hPbVQW9VJzbgOskNGN.html
24-05-2020||Editorials||Flying in times of a pandemic | HT Editorial||After 60 days, India will fly again today. While there have been special flights to bring back stranded Indians, regular domestic flight operations have remained suspended ever since the national lockdown was imposed from March 25. There was sound logic — travel could lead to the spread of the disease. But the suspension of flights caused devastating economic losses for the aviation industry, and inconvenience for millions of people who had to cancel their travel plans. With the government slowly easing restrictions, including resuming limited passenger rail services, the resumption of domestic flights is a logical next step. But it is crucial to remember that cases in India are rising rapidly. This means there is no room for complacency. Fly only if it is essential; follow regulations carefully, by wearing masks, maintaining distance, and following respiratory hygiene. There has been a debate between the Centre and states on quarantining of passengers once they land, with the Centre on Sunday allowing states to frame their own guidelines. But it has also issued broad guidelines — self monitoring in case of asymptomatic passengers, home isolation in case of those with mild symptoms and institutional quarantine for those with moderate to severe symptoms. This is a sensible case-by-case approach, for mandatory quarantine for all passengers is impractical and difficult to enforce. But it is important that citizens behave with utmost responsibility — for themselves and for the sake of others, and authorities ensure that regulations are carefully implemented. Flying safe has taken on a new meaning in times of the coronavirus disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/flying-in-times-of-a-pandemic/story-kcJaiyPHp7BMc9eaQu2cQO.html
24-05-2020||Editorials||Tackling the locust attack | HT Editorial||While India battles the coronavirus pandemic, four Indian states — Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Punjab and Gujarat — are also confronting another challenge — a desert locust attack. Sixteen out of 33 districts of Rajasthan are battling the scourge; Madhya Pradesh has reported one of the worst attacks in 27 years in the Nimar-Malwa region; and, Punjab and Gujarat have warned farmers that they could be the next. Reports say that swarms are threatening to touch the Rajasthan-Haryana border, and then could move into Delhi. The current round is the second such attack; the first one was from December to February. India was then moderately successful in tackling the problem, with states deploying teams to spray organophosphate to kill locusts.The desert locust is one of 12 species of short-horned grasshoppers; its swarms can travel up to 130 km in one day. Each day, a locust can eat its own weight — about two grams of fresh vegetation. This means that they not only devour valuable standing crops, but can also devastate livelihoods of those associated with the agricultural supply chain. The Food and Agriculture Organization has warned that the locust attack could lead to a major threat to food security. Locust attacks are not new to India, but earlier they used to leave India by November. But the swarms stayed on till early February this year. This, scientists said, was because of the climate crisis. In 2019, the monsoon started six weeks ahead of time (first week of July) in western India. It also lasted till November, instead of the usual September/October cycle. Extended rains created breeding conditions and also produced natural vegetation on which locusts feed. The May attack has been attributed to a series of cyclones in the Indian Ocean that hit a sandy area in the Arabian peninsula, providing hospitable breeding conditions for locusts. Current global challenges — the coronavirus pandemic, increasing intensity of cyclones (as Amphan has shown), the locust attacks in Africa, Iran, Pakistan and India — demonstrate the perils of environmental degradation and the need for international cooperation to fight trans-border challenges. India has proposed a trilateral response in partnership with Pakistan and Iran to combat the desert locust wave. This is positive, and must be a template to deal with environment-related challenges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/tackling-the-locust-attack/story-8qyc7P3TkS6jdz0XEDPFuJ.html
