25-05-2020||News||In the Afghan theatre, India and its balancing act | Opinion||Prospects for peace in Afghanistan are uncertain. The February Doha Agreement was not about peace. For the Donald Trump Administration, it was meant to get the remaining United States (US) troops out of the country before the next presidential election. For the Taliban, it was to rid Afghanistan of foreign forces and bring it a step closer to take control over the Afghan government. The head of the Taliban, Mawlawi Hibatullah Akhundzada, described the Doha Agreement as the “Termination of Occupation Agreement”, while it is actually titled the “Agreement for Bringing Peace to Afghanistan.” All Afghans yearn for peace. They are bound to, after four decades of incessant violence. That is why the restarting of hostilities by the Taliban has been so disheartening. On May 12, Afghan President Ashraf Ghani announced the resumption of offensive operations against the Taliban, in the wake of several terrorist attacks, including one targeting a maternity hospital in Kabul that killed dozens, including mothers and newborns. The increase in Taliban violence has led to some discordance in Washington, DC. The Pentagon maintains that Taliban attacks have increased following the Doha Agreement. The State Department has been silent for the most part. Secretary of State, Mark Pompeo, noted that the Taliban denied any responsibility and condemned the recent attacks as heinous. After a gap of two years, the Taliban has announced an Eid ceasefire, again without any guarantee of it being irreversible. This is an effort to establish Taliban bonafides and take forward the intra-Afghan process, supposed to have started on March 7.The Doha Peace Deal, which blindsided the Afghan government, is not a capitulation to the Taliban. Rather, it is a capitulation to Pakistan. Pakistan’s objective is to have a pliant, Taliban-led government in Kabul, which would limit India’s presence in Afghanistan and provide a base for jihadi groups targeting India.Afghanistan has two important neighbours. While Pakistan may be fully on board with the Doha Agreement, Iran is not. Notwithstanding their new-found equation with the Taliban, Iranians have denounced as “destructive” the US role in Afghanistan, and the sacrificing of the interests of the Afghan people.Most international actors wish to engage with the Taliban. That the Taliban has friends is no reason for India to join the bandwagon. India was not consulted on the Doha Agreement. India has no responsibility for its implementation; it is for the protagonists to take it forward. India has been kept out by Pakistan on any material discussion about Afghanistan’s future, as the US accepted the Pakistan redline. That said, even if the US has decided to call it quits in Afghanistan, India cannot. Recently, there was news that in Muhmand Dara, Nangarhar, most of those killed in a supposed Taliban camp are members of Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM). Aslam Farooqi, head of the Islamic State of Khorasan Province, arrested in Afghanistan for his complicity in the Kabul gurudwara attack last month, was formerly with the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). Both JeM and LeT have close ties with the Haqqani Network, whose leader, Sirajuddin Haqqani, is the deputy leader of the Taliban.The Taliban’s ties with the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) are well-documented. Steve Coll writes in Directorate S: The C.I.A. and America’s Secret Wars in Afghanistan and Pakistan that the Haqqani Network has been the lynchpin of ISI’s covert policy since the 1970s. The group, the Taliban’s most important armed component, has targeted American forces in Afghanistan. It has also been the executioner targeting Indians in Afghanistan, including diplomats, military officers, and cooperation workers.The argument that India must discuss its concerns with the Taliban is specious, as if the Taliban is unaware of these. True, the Taliban has not made statements against India, but the hand of the Haqqani Network is well-established in almost all the attacks on the Indian mission and posts in Afghanistan and the recent attack on the Kart-e-Parwan gurudwara in Kabul. India has been supportive of efforts to bring genuine peace to Afghanistan. It has advised leaders of different ethnicities to work in cohesion with others for the common purposes of peace and nation-building. India favours the reintegration of insurgents and groups that give up their links with terrorist groups and networks, resile from violence, are inclusive, and embrace the Afghan Constitution. India opposes only the political accommodation of individuals, groups or organisations associated with known terrorist entities, since this will subvert the nascent Afghan democracy, undermine human rights, particularly women’s rights, and destroy emerging Afghan institutions. A further concern is that restoration of status-quo-ante in Afghanistan could lead to the unravelling of the state system in neighbouring Pakistan, with imponderable consequences.India must, as it has been, remain supportive of the Afghan people and their government, which needs to continue standing on its feet and taking its own decisions. India has to be far more proactive in doing so and openly engage with all actors across the political spectrum, including the moderate Taliban leaders through covert contacts. India has a decent track record in dealing with Islam-oriented regimes. Were the Taliban to change its behaviour, which given its present composition seems unlikely, India would have no problem interacting with it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/in-the-afghan-theatre-india-and-its-balancing-act/story-zaxtJRQaNHuIm5doIgox0N.html
25-05-2020||News||Returning workers can bring prosperity to rural areas||We have treated our migrant workers abominably. With no money to pay rent or buy food, these workers had no choice but to start walking back to their villages. Will they return to work in the cities that treated them so cruelly? Hard to say, but for the time being, at least, they are likely to stay with their families and make do with whatever they have.This tragedy is as much a humanitarian as an economic one. Workers have not just lost their livelihoods, they are now also staring at an uncertain future. Will the economy recover fast enough to absorb them again? Long periods of waiting and inaction will have a cost. Some of these people are unskilled labour, but many are skilled or semi-skilled. A large-scale deskilling could take place if they do not find work quickly because their skills will begin to rust and diminish if not used.One way to solve this mess is to enable rural enterprises that provide jobs and income opportunities in villages. They will plug the inequalities between rural and urban India, and become an engine of growth where it is needed the most. The skilled manpower that has returned home will raise the standards of such enterprises, and the labour will find work close to home. The neglect and injustice meted out to villagers in India’s development story can finally begin to be made good. The crisis can have a positive outcome if we are able to turn the current adversity into an equitable and inclusive growth opportunity.There is a great model which we can follow to establish rural industries: China’s Township and Village Enterprises (TVEs). It was based on value addition in the agriculture sector and rural subsidiary production. It started with reforms in 1978 when the country invested in raising agricultural production, agricultural mechanisation and liberalisation of rural markets. This helped start economic initiatives in villages and small towns. These enterprises were called TVEs, and went on to become the foundation for China’s formidable economic growth.As agriculture production went up, TVEs absorbed the surplus labour released from traditional farming, created employment in the villages, and increased the incomes of farmers and rural citizens. Once farmers established viable TVEs based on agriculture, they began to branch out into other industrial sectors and services. This diversification and growth of rural industrialisation was encouraged by the government. It resulted in the TVE output’s value increasing dramatically, helping absorb nearly 30% of China’s rural labour force. By 1996, these rural enterprises accounted for nearly 50% of the country’s exports.Despite their incredible success, they went into an abrupt decline after 1996. The reason was simple: The privatisation spree that overtook China as a prelude to its industrialisation boom. But, by then, it had created the conditions for an awe-inspiring economic success for the country.Our migrant workers were employed in several manufacturing and services sectors such as hospitality, automobile, textiles and garments, packaging and construction. Many of them have niche training and experience. They can be the foundation on which to build a rural industrial base.Rural enterprises will have significant advantages. They can compete with multinational products that are shipped to rural areas. Villages and mofussil towns have market opportunities, and rural enterprises can effectively cater to the consumer demands of farmers and other rural citizens. Once rural incomes start to rise – with an efficient and diversified agricultural and horticultural production unleashed from the tyranny of obstructive policies such as the Agricultural Produce Market Committee Act and the Essential Commodities Act – a TVE-like phenomenon will open up many more sectors for rural entrepreneurs.Suman Sahai is a scientist and chairperson of the Gene CampaignThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/returning-workers-can-bring-prosperity-to-rural-areas/story-pXolyXaCN9McZMzkLm7khN.html
25-05-2020||News||Why an absolute reliance on online examinations may not be the answer||Recently, many of India’s leading universities have announced the introduction of online open-book examinations for final year students. The process requires students to have Internet access, the latest smartphone, books and quality study material wherever they are currently locked down. The prospect of online examinations has brought anxiety among students and teachers.The RC Kuhad-led expert committee of the University Grants Commission has recommended other possible modes of evaluation, such as assignment/presentation-based assessments. But due to the extraordinary situation brought by the coronavirus pandemic, e-learning has been projected as a viable substitute for completing educational institutes’ syllabi. However, in the process, certain basic ground realities have been overlooked.While teachers tried to complete their syllabi using online methods, students struggled to cope with it, with many of them not receptive to the idea for various reasons. An online survey conducted by the Department of Communications, University of Hyderabad, suggests that a majority of the respondents faced problems with online education. Similarly, a survey among the students of Delhi University’s Lady Shri Ram College revealed that even in the institution where the majority is economically and socially affluent, the students are wary of the prospect of online examinations.A sizeable number of students of central universities are out-station students, who are stuck in their hometowns since the March mid-semester break. Many of them don’t have their books and notes with them, and are struggling to cope. A significant section of students is locked down in regions with intermittent Internet access. There are also numerous students who are handicapped simply because they don’t have smartphones and laptops. Even students who have smartphones point out, rightly, the severe strain long hours of studying on smartphones bring on their eyes. Besides, many students have had, among other challenges, difficulties coping with contingencies stemming from malfunctioning smartphones and laptops, the inability to easily navigate new apps, and the lack of quality e-resources in Hindi and other languages.A sizeable section of university students is from poorer households where the sheer lack of physical space within homes makes quality and uninterrupted learning a luxury. It is also necessary to factor in the special needs of students with physical disabilities, who may not have access to technologies that support extensive online learning, and instead, depend heavily on special resources and the infrastructure provided within campuses. Likewise, we simply cannot overlook the specific obstacles faced by a large number of women students, who share the burden of routine household chores, increasingly so during the lockdown.Furthermore, the implications of online examinations for the socially- and economically-marginalised students who are concentrated in the open and distance learning (ODL) mode of various universities have to be considered. The ODL mode students are a very large component of many universities. Due to the lack of seats in regular colleges, scores of students, many of whom are first-generation learners, have become dependent on ODL. Can we really expect these students to be in a position to appear for an examination any time soon?Differential learning capacities due to contrasting social backgrounds of students can only be properly addressed through teaching and socialisation nurtured in real classrooms, and not through teachings on virtual platforms. Direct classroom teaching creates a public space in which social and political understanding grow through collective participation of diverse individuals and groups. In contrast, e-learning tends to shift the entire burden of education onto the individual, isolates the learners from a real public space, and makes them overtly dependent on digital technology and gadgets that are synced to homogenised modules of learning.Considering the difficulties with online learning and teaching, and the related pedagogic issues, policymakers, and university administrations must take into account the genuine concerns of students and teachers, and work towards a viable solution that is acceptable and just to all stakeholders.Maya John teaches in Delhi UniversityThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/why-an-absolute-reliance-on-online-examinations-may-not-be-the-answer/story-PQFGIbKfuvXzLgs9YfpkbO.html
25-05-2020||News||India’s lockdown encouraged life-saving behavioural changes. Make them last||It’s been about two months since the start of the world’s largest coronavirus disease (Covid-19) lockdown – in India. For millions of migrant workers across the country, it has resulted in a humanitarian crisis. But it has also been devastating for the non-migrant and urban poor, many of whom have lost their incomes.The economic costs of the lockdown have been enormous, but there may have been one benefit: People did their best to comply with public health directives. They wore masks, washed their hands regularly, and followed basic social distancing guidelines. These behaviours can slow the spread of the coronavirus, ultimately saving lives. As the Indian economy gradually reopens, we cannot afford these behavioural gains to be lost, even as the novelty of the pandemic fades.At the Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago in India (Epic India), we have studied the impacts of the lockdown for a representative sample of mostly poor, non-migrant workers in Delhi. Our study documents large declines in employment and income. Over the first seven weeks of the lockdown, weekly income dropped by nearly 60%, on average. Daily wage workers were hit hardest first, followed by salaried workers – perhaps as it became clear that the lockdown will be extended. The situation worsened over time. By early-May, nine out of 10 survey respondents reported that their weekly income has fallen to zero.The reduction in employment and earnings is no surprise. What truly stands out in our data, however, is the widespread compliance with public health directives. Compared to pre-coronavirus levels, mask usage increased from 20%, at the height of the most recent air pollution crisis, to 90%; time spent indoors increased from 44% to 95%, and regular hand-washing became nearly universal. We need to view these types of behaviours, important in limiting the spread of the virus, as some of the hard-fought gains of this long and costly lockdown.This week, lockdown restrictions have been eased across the country. In Delhi, the intra-city movement is on the rise again. As some semblance of normalcy returns to everyday life, a few actions should be prioritised. First, the government should not only maintain but be prepared to expand its food assistance and relief efforts. In our data, a third of respondents reported benefiting from the Delhi government’s food assistance services, suggesting that these relief centres may have lessened some of the hardships caused by the lockdown. For many, it is not clear when employment will return, and with infections on the rise, these services should be continued.Second, we need to ensure that maximum public awareness of Covid-19 is maintained so that the behavioural changes achieved during this lockdown do not fade away. Most importantly, everyone will need to wear a mask at all times. This is crucial in densely-populated cities like Delhi, where maintaining a physical distance is often impossible.To keep the infection rate as low as possible, masks should not only be mandatory, they should also be free. In the current situation, wearing a mask generates positive externalities. The government should find ways to support private-sector investments to scale up domestic mask production and subsidise it for most.Some state governments have already introduced compulsory mask policies and penalties for non-compliance. Although this may be effective at the moment, the opportunity for authorities to selectively enforce such rules could end up causing more harm. Instead, we need to leverage the behavioural habits adopted so far to establish lasting social norms that encourage widespread and proper mask usage (for example, masks should not be worn hanging off the chin). Perhaps India’s leaders, social influencers, and celebrities can play a role in promoting such norms.Some argue that producing so many masks has environmental costs and, so, people should just make their own using standard materials found at home. But the effectiveness of Do It Yourself (DIY) masks in reducing the spread of Covid-19 is not clear. Until a vaccine is both available and widely administered, which could take years, it will be important to make sure that people wear high-quality, hospital-grade masks.The lockdown bought the government and the people valuable time to prepare for Covid-19’s rise, and probably also prevented countless deaths. We do not yet know whether the total benefits of the lockdown – flatter curve, life-saving behaviours and such – will outweigh the massive economic and humanitarian costs. The battle has only begun, and the final outcome will depend on whether some of the key gains from this lockdown—in terms of public awareness and public health compliance—will persist into the future.Kenneth Lee is an economist and executive director, Epic India. This research is co-authored by Michael Greenstone, the Milton Friedman Distinguished Service Professor in Economics at the University of Chicago and director of Epic, Patrick Baylis, assistant professor at the Vancouver School of Economics at the University of British Columbia, and Harshil Sahai, a doctoral candidate in economics at the University of ChicagoThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/india-s-lockdown-encouraged-life-saving-behavioural-changes-make-them-last/story-hBD5hUbqxQexK8rDzetA4N.html
25-05-2020||News||Disentangling the labour law debate: What does the evidence really say?||The coronavirus-related lockdown has made more than 130 million people jobless. Many of them are the migrants returning to their home states. During the last few weeks, some states, particularly the traditional out-migrant states, have issued ordinances to significantly relax or suspend labour laws. These changes are aimed at removing potential impediments to employment generation so as to absorb the unemployed — especially the returning migrants — and/or attract foreign direct investment. There are several issues related to the constitutionality of these ordinances, but that’s for lawyers and legal scholars to debate. As economists, our research, based on the readings of the evidence available, highlights the costs and benefits of these modifications. The adopted changes are a motley set. Madhya Pradesh has, among other measures, limited the role of inspectors and removed many provisions of the Factories Act (the law governing health and safety in manufacturing firms). Gujarat has retained the industrial safety rules and the Minimum Wage Act, but scrapped all other laws for new industrial establishments. Uttar Pradesh has removed all but a few laws for a period of three years (pending approval by the State legislature and the President of India for laws in the Concurrent List). Several states have amended daily work hours from eight to 12 (some with, and others without, overtime payment). Assam’s focus is different. It has legalised the fixed-term employment (earlier, it needed a licence under the Contract Labour Act) and stipulated equal social security benefits to fixed-term workers as permanent workers in the same unit.These changes can be usefully distinguished into two types. One, those that aims to lower firms’ labour costs by reducing workers’ benefits such as minimum wages, health and safety regulations, provident fund payments and bonus payments, and two, those that aim to increase firms’ flexibility by reducing firing costs such as the employment protection legislation. The conceptual implications and empirical evidence for each type are different.In a basic supply and demand framework, reducing firms’ labour costs should increase labour demand. But when you consider information asymmetries or market power, this prediction falters. Where workers’ effort is hard to observe, employers may provide higher than market wages in order to increase the productivity and minimise turnover (the efficiency wage theory). In markets where employers have wage-setting power, the most low-wage labour markets, introducing a minimum wage does not necessarily lead to adverse employment effects as empirically shown by Arindrajit Dube and co-authors, and, in fact, it can even generate employment gains, as shown by Vidhya Soundararajan, the co-author of this article.Further complications arise as the laws on the books are often not enforced. Urmila Chatterjee and Ravi Kanbur find that the Factories Act is characterised by a widespread non-compliance. Despite the non-compliance, these laws still seem to impose costs on some firms: In a recent paper, Amrit Amirapu and Michael Gechter find that the de facto costs imposed by type-1 regulations on firms can be very high (up to 40% of labour costs), but only in states with high levels of corruption or those which have not reformed their inspector rules. This implies that if there are corrupt inspectors, labour laws are sufficiently complex and opaque to provide them with leverage to extract bribes. Yet, they fail to generate full compliance, leaving workers under-protected. This might explain why, according to the 2014 World Bank Enterprise Survey, only 11% of (medium and large) Indian firms reported that labour regulations are a “major constraint”, while 36% thought corruption to be a “major constraint”.The solution, then, is not to remove these benefits altogether, but to consolidate and simplify them — so that they can be implemented effectively with less room for extortionary practices. Indeed, Parliament has already started deliberating on the issue, and it should be allowed to continue in a careful, if expedited, manner. There is no justification for the wholesale suspension of such laws, leaving workers completely unprotected and firms only marginally better-off.Turning now to the “reforms” of type-2: These relate to the employment protection legislation (EPL), which restricts hiring and firing. The relevant legislation in India is the Industrial Disputes Act (IDA) 1957. Most aspects of this law are fairly standard. For example, Section V-A of the law stipulates that a retrenched or laid-off worker must be adequately compensated, which is similar to policies in many other countries including Germany, France, and the United Kingdom. It is Chapter V-B of the law which prohibits firms with 100 or more permanent workers from firing even a single worker without government consent — and this stands out for its stringency (at least on paper). It is possible that this part of the IDA aims to compensate in some way for the lack of social insurance mechanisms (unemployment benefits/public health insurance) in India. The problem with using EPL as social insurance is two-fold. First, India’s EPL is limited to medium and large formal firms, so that only a fraction of the non-agricultural workforce is covered. Second, it might distort the efficient functioning of labour markets by dissuading firms from hiring permanent workers.The empirical evidence for whether India’s EPL has in fact reduced employment or output in India is not conclusive, and the debate started by Timothy Besley and Robin Burgess has been rebutted by Aditya Bhattacharjea (in 2006, 2009 and 2019) and others. However, there is clearer evidence from other countries that strict EPL can reduce employment, firm productivity, and investment (employment and productivity in the US by David Autor and co-authors, and Italy by Federico Cingano and co-authors). There is also evidence from India that EPL incentivised the use of contract work (as shown by Ritam Chaurey), the share of which grew from 15% to 34% in Indian manufacturing between 1999 and 2015. This phenomenon may have reduced incentives to invest in human capital and lowered productivity, in addition to undermining the bargaining power of trade unions, as shown by Nancy Chau and co-authors. Overall, the international evidence suggests that type-2 laws do constrain the employment generation, investment, and productivity. In India, although conclusive evidence is elusive, at least Chapter V-B, the most stringent part of IDA, could be removed and replaced with a more effective and expansive social insurance mechanism (such as unemployment insurance or UBI). These measures will provide firms with greater flexibility without undercutting the welfare of workers. How, then, do we understand these “reforms” in light of the above evidence and the demands of the moment? Given the tragic situation of migrant workers and general mass unemployment, the first-order concern should be to immediately save lives through a combination of cash and in-kind transfers. The next concern should be to improve livelihoods, by doing the necessary to facilitate re-employment.Given the stark human costs of unemployment on the scale witnessed, it is understandable that states wish to urgently remove impediments to hiring, even if that means tilting the balance of power towards firms. However, our reading of the academic literature suggests that the wholesale suspension of type-1 laws is unlikely to improve the worker’s welfare or substantially increase employment, and, should, therefore, be restored immediately. Removing type-2 labour laws would improve welfare by increasing employment only if redundant and retrenched workers are provided with adequate social security. Providing the latter should be the urgent task of the moment.Amrit Amirapu is a Senior Lecturer at the University of Kent, and Vidhya Soundararajan is an Assistant Professor at the Indian Institute of Management BangaloreThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/disentangling-the-labour-law-debate-what-does-the-evidence-really-say/story-Lef1TrckiCSkJGzje5dMBJ.html
25-05-2020||City||Manoj Tiwari plays cricket without mask, Sonepat stadium owner gets notice||Delhi Bharatiya Janata Party chief Manoj Tiwari was pictured flouting lockdown norms and social distancing during his visit to the cricket stadium at Sonepat’s Sheikhpura village on Sunday.As per the information, Tiwari was present at the stadium on an invitation by the stadium owner. In a video, the Delhi BJP chief can be seen playing cricket without wearing a mask and ignoring social distancing norms.On Monday, Ganaur sub-divisional magistrate Swapnil Ravindra Patil issued a notice to Sanat Jain, owner of the Sheikhpura village stadium to appear before him within 24 hours and explain why social distancing and lockdown rules were violated during Tiwari’s visit.A letter issued by the SDM states: “As per media reports, spectators were present at the cricket stadium. Was the stadium sanitised before playing the match and how an approval was given for the same needs to be explained by the owner in writing by appearing before the SDM.”The BJP leader was also seen singing a song and interacting with people without wearing a mask. Tiwari had also tweeted pictures of him playing cricket in the stadium. Tiwari has reportedly clarified that he visited the stadium on invitation of the stadium owner and played cricket without violating norms and regulations issued by the Union ministry of home affairs.“The MHA allowed the opening of the stadiums without spectators. Following these guidelines, I went to Sonepat village on Sunday and played cricket there,” Tiwari said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/manoj-tiwari-plays-cricket-without-mask-sonepat-stadium-owner-gets-notice/story-KxCUaqVtvUP1sKmMIKiuXK.html
25-05-2020||City||Clean ponds by June 10: Bajwa||Chandigarh Rural development and panchayats minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa has directed officers his department to complete work on cleaning the ponds by June 10. Bajwa added a special campaign was launched for this on May 11 and water from 3,848 ponds of 12,451 had been cleaned. Silt has been removed from 297 ponds and this work was on in 1,304 ponds. He has also asked officials to engage labourers for this task so that they could earn livelihood. Bajwa said that all the ponds in Punjab would be converted into Sewage Treatment Plants in phases as per the affordable model developed by the Punjab Pollution Control Board from Thapar University to make rural environment cleaner and healthier. He added village wastewater would be treated through these plants and provided to farmers for irrigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/clean-ponds-by-june-10-bajwa/story-VFumeUT2RVNFpnZtXkAE2H.html
25-05-2020||Mumbai||Only bona fide migrants should be allowed to work in Maharashtra: Raj Thackeray||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray on Monday demanded that the state should allow only bona fide migrants after they submit all details to the authorities.Thackeray was reacting to a recent comment by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, stating that anyone requiring the services of the residents of the state should take the permission of the state government.In his letter addressed to the media, Thackeray said, “If such is the case, then any migrant entering Maharashtra too, would need to take permissions from us – the Maharashtra government and the state police. The Maharashtra government needs to look into this matter seriously.”He said the migrants need to be registered and their personal details, as well as identification proof, should be submitted to the local police station.Congress state unit chief and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat also slammed CM Aadityanath, saying that Maharashtra has been playing the role of ‘aunt’ to the migrants because UP failed to take care of them as a ‘mother’. “We have taken care of the migrants for the last two months of the lockdown by providing them food, shelter and making arrangements for their journey back home. In fact, they have complained of being deprived basic facilities after reaching to their home state of UP,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/only-bona-fide-migrants-should-be-allowed-to-work-in-maharashtra-raj-thackeray/story-EyCd9lku0D81S92Mc789pO.html
25-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai death toll crosses 1,000 mark; IAS officers assigned to all major hospitals||The city’s death toll due to Covid-19 crossed the 1,000 mark on Monday, with 38 new deaths taking the toll to 1,026. The city also reported 1,430 new Covid-19 patients, taking the total number of cases to 31,972. The overall fatality rate of Mumbai is now 3.2%. A total of 8,404 patients have been cured and discharged. Dharavi on Monday recorded 42 new cases, taking the total count for the area to 1,583. No new deaths were recorded in Dharavi on Monday. War room planAmid criticism that patients are finding it hard to get beds at public hospitals, the state and city authorities are working out a system to improve the situation on the ground. Each of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) major hospitals — Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General, BYL Nair, KEM, JJ, and all peripheral hospitals — has been assigned an IAS officer and will also get an individual war room with CCTV cameras installed in each Covid-19 and ICU ward. The war rooms will manage a real-time dashboard of bed availability, and data will be updated every 30 minutes. According to information released by the civic body, each bed at these hospitals will also be given a unique identification code for better management through BMC’s centralised system of the helpline 1916. Bed capacityBy May 31, Mumbai will have beds to accommodate 44,000 active Covid-19 cases, despite the number of active cases expected by that date is predicted to be only 28,000, BMC said. The civic body currently had 30,000 tier-2 Covid care centre (CCC2) beds and is planning to reach a target of 14,000 dedicated Covid hospital beds. After acquiring 80% of the beds at private hospitals, 2,624 Covid beds and 3,020 non-Covid beds have been added to the city’s pool. These beds will be allotted to patients by BMC, at government-controlled rates, while the remaining 20% will be available with the hospital for commercial use. BMC also took over 100% of the ICU beds at 33 private hospitals, increasing its capacity by 417 Covid ICU beds, and 538 non-Covid ICU beds at government rates. Each of BMC’s 24 wards will have an additional 100 general beds and 20 ICU beds from other private hospitals. Those with diabetes, hypertension at greater riskAs of Monday, of the total number of deaths in the city, 67% of victims had co-morbidities. Around 26% had diabetes; 24% had hypertension; in 32% of the deaths, both diabetes and hypertension were found; 8% of the victims had heart disease, and 10% had other co-morbidities. Of the total Covid positive cases in Mumbai, 5,709 were above 60 years old cases and 463 of the deaths were also from this age group, which has the highest fatality rate of 8.1%. Among victims below 50 years of age, 20% had comorbidities.Till Monday, 11,517 cases were from the 40-60 years age group (456 deaths; 4% fatality rate). The highest number of cases (13,133) was recorded in the age group below 40 years, with 69 deaths and a fatality rate of 0.5%. Of the total cases, 40% were of women and 60% of men; 37% of the total deaths were of women and 63% of men. Of the 38 deaths recorded on Monday, 27 had comorbidities; 26 were men and 12 were women. Three deaths were of patients below 40 years; 15 of the victims were above 60 and 20 were between 40 and 60 years of age.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-death-toll-crosses-1-000-mark-ias-officers-assigned-to-all-major-hospitals/story-aVWzWjgnNLuQ2cUoMING0K.html
25-05-2020||Mumbai||Landlords demand rent despite government advisory, claim they have no choice||Despite the state government’s advisory last month to defer rents by three months, landlords and homeowners have now started putting pressure on tenants to pay the rent or face eviction.Landlords have pointed out that for a majority of them, rent is the main source of income. The tenants meanwhile contend that they have not received income for the last two months and are in no position to pay up.“I have had no work since the last three months due to the lockdown and I can’t pay the rent. The landlords need to reduce the rents,” said Amrutaa Dasgupta, an actor who resides at Yari Road. “As the landlord was pressuring me, I had to ask the police to intervene as there was no way I could even vacate this place,” she said.The state government on April 17 had issued an advisory asking landlords and homeowners to defer collecting rents by three months given the lockdown has affected the source of income of many people.However, landlords have defended their stance, pointing out that even they have expenses. “I have to pay my EMIs and will not be able to pay them if I don’t get the rent. If the tenant delays, the bank will charge me interest for the same,” said Chandramohan Sharma, who has rented out his premises at Juhu.Some property owners have given discounts to their tenants. “I have asked my tenant to pay half the rent since even they have no income. However, it is not possible to waive off the entire amount as even my expenses will get affected,” said Sachin Gala, who is renting out his Hindmata flat.According to Liases Foras, a real estate research firm, there are at least 5.50 lakh houses in Mumbai that are put on rent. “The condition will only worsen in the coming days, especially due to job losses and salary cuts,” said Pankaj Kapoor, CEO, Liases Foras.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/landlords-demand-rent-despite-government-advisory-claim-they-have-no-choice/story-IkG98qKH6sJMjEoXyO16RP.html
25-05-2020||Mumbai||Fisherman seeks HC intervention to set up testing facilities in Ratnagiri||The Bombay high court has directed the state to respond to the plea of a fisherman from Ratnagiri who has complained that ever since intra-state travelling was permitted, Ratnagiri had seen a surge in Covid cases. The petitioner has claimed that till April-end there were only seven positive cases, of which two died. However, after travel restrictions were lifted there were 108 cases. He further informed the court that as samples had to be sent 237 kms away to Sangli and Miraj, results were delayed, hence additional testing facilities should be set up in Ratnagiri itself.A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice SS Shinde, while hearing public interest litigation filed by a fisherman Khalil Ahmad Hasanmiya Wasta through video conferencing, were informed by advocate Rakesh Bhatkar that the entire Konkan region had been declared a non-red zone since the Covid-19 outbreak. He further submitted that since travel restrictions had been lifted to allow stranded students and migrants to return home to Konkan and Ratnagiri, there was an apprehension that the number of cases would rise.Bhatkar submitted the data prior and post the lifting of travel restrictions and said that there was a visible increase in the number of Covid-19 positive cases. The plea pointed out, “state authorities issued passes to migrants and 44,531 applications were allowed to enter Ratnagiri district and nearly 30,000 persons entered without official passes. As per government data, 29,259 persons are home quarantined. A district with a population of 16.15 lakh persons has six functioning hospitals, out of which two hospitals are reserved for Covid-19 treatment.” In light of the above, the petition said that the administration was not equipped to meet with the increased demand for Covid testing.Bhatkar informed the court that as there was a shortage of testing facilities and samples were being sent to Sangli and Miraj which was already inundated with samples from other districts. As a result, the testing units there were unable to provide timely reports and hence testing facilities should be set up in Ratnagiri as per the ICMR list.After hearing the submissions, the court directed government pleader Priyabhushan Kakade to take instructions from the authorities and asked him to respond to the plea during the next hearing on May 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fisherman-seeks-hc-intervention-to-set-up-testing-facilities-in-ratnagiri/story-FnNDsVXjN1ujFfvBFK9q0L.html
25-05-2020||Mumbai||BMC is testing at 65% of its capacity||Even as the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) increases the number of tests conducted for Covid-19 in the city, experts have urged the civic body to expand the scope of testing. At present, BMC is at 65% of the official testing capacity.According to BMC, around 4,500 samples are tested daily for Covid-19. The official testing capacity of private and government labs is over 7,000 samples a day.“We have extended the lab capacity as a precautionary measure if Covid-19 cases spike further. We are conducting enough tests every day,” said Dr Daksha Shah, deputy health officer, BMC.BMC’s data shows that between May 13 and May 23, despite the increased testing capacity, fewer than 4,500 tests were conducted on many days. For example, BMC conducted 2,673 tests on May 13; 3,112 on May 14; 3,260 on May 18; and 3,209 on May 22.The data also shows 32 of every 100 tested samples are Covid-positive. Most tests are conducted in containment zones and hotspots. “As these areas have the highest number of cases, the rate of identification of Covid-19 is also high. This means we are testing the right section,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.Experts said the identification rate shows more tests are needed. “Mumbai has a population of over 2 crore. We are testing around 4,500 samples which is far from adequate. The more we test, the more we identify, and the more we can stop the chain of infection,” said Anant Bhan, global health expert. However, laboratories say they’re working at capacity. “Every day, we get over 600 samples. Some days, it goes over 900. This causes a pile-up of samples and we fail to give reports within 24 hours. At present, I have 300 samples that came on Friday,” said a lab technician from a private laboratory. Last week, BMC instructed labs that Covid-19 test results must be declared within 24 hours of receipt of samples.For those with severe cases of Covid-19, delays in receiving results can be critical.On May 10, a 35-year-old resident of Vakola developed a fever. After an x-ray indicated he had pneumonia, he tried to get himself admitted but was refused by two hospitals. On May 13, he tested for Covid-19 at Hinduja Hospital. The test results came on May 16. “No one agreed to admit him without a Covid-19 test. For 48 hours, he was at home without any medication,” said the patient’s brother. The patient was died in hospital, a few hours after being admitted on May 16. The Association of Medical Consultants (AMC) has criticised BMC’s Covid-19 policy. “First, as patients don’t get treatment until they get the report, their health deteriorates. Then they are rushed to hospitals, and collapse within hours. As there is no policy to treat suspected patients, they are either kept at home or quarantined in facilities. Due to this, more people get infected,” said Dr Deepak Baid, president, AMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-is-testing-at-65-of-its-capacity/story-mrqbpwIFyYFnFlnOmm5Q5L.html
25-05-2020||City||RWAs worry as Panchkula admn allows domestic helps to work in houses||Resident welfare associations (RWAs) are worried as the administration has issued orders allowing domestic helps to work in houses in Panchkula. The Federation of Residents’ Association (FORA), Panchkula, took up the matter and said that house maids, vendors and pedestrians could be seen flowing down the sectors without properly covering their faces with masks. FORA president RP Malhotra said, “Maids need financial help and it is the duty of the administration to give them a monthly assistance for sustenance instead of just allowing them to carry on with their jobs as if everything was back to normal.” “As per the instructions issued by the administration, it is difficult for people to provide their maids a place to stay in their houses. As such it is not only that the maids can infect residents, but they too can get infected from people as they work in a multiple houses,” said Malhotra. He said that if at all household workers were to be allowed to work, the administration should get them all screened or tested against the Covid-19. Malhotra further said that the association had taken up the matter with the deputy commissioner as well, but got no response as yet.FORA senior vice-president Bharat Hiteshi said the benefits of lockdown had been nullified by massive relaxations such as allowing maids to work and opening of parks where people throng in group with caring about social distancing norms. Not satisfied with orders restricting senior citizens and kids below 10 years from walking in parks, the association members said that it’ the aged people who need to boost their immunity the most and keep themselves in high spirits. They said keeping them confined to their homes would only add to their loneliness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rwas-worry-as-panchkula-admn-allows-domestic-helps-to-work-in-houses/story-B3STJdEqq5EocRAxspftTO.html
25-05-2020||City||24-year-old stabbed to death near Haji Malang||A 24-year-old man was stabbed to death by a group of unidentified people at Haji Malang in Ulhasnagar on Monday.Shadab Sheikh, a resident of Waldhuni, Kalyan, and his four friends were on the way to the popular dargah to celebrate Eid, when they were accosted by a group of men around 1.30am.After an argument, one of them stabbed Shadab with a sharp object.Shadab’s brother Shahanawaj, 28, said his friends had insisted that he accompanied them to the dargah. Five friends set out on three motorcycles on Sunday night for Haji Malang, 17km from their house. They carried food with them. “On the way up the hill to the dargah, a group of people asked them to leave as lockdown was in place. They had an argument,” said Shahanawaj.“My brother and his friends came downhill and were discussing where to go when the group, probably locals, followed them. They started frisking my brother and his friends and checking their mobile phones. Then, they started beating them. One of them took out a sharp object and stabbed my brother four times,” said Shahanawaj.Shadab was bleeding and his friends managed to get out of the area and took him to hospital but he was declared dead.Shadab was working as a customer care service officer in a company in Mumbai and had got married in February.When the police reached the spot, they found a mobile phone. Later in the morning when a man came looking for the phone, he was detained by the police.Deputy commissioner of police, P Shewale, said, “Our team reached the spot after being alerted about the murder. We have registered a murder case. We are questioning the villagers and have detained a few persons for questioning but we are yet to make any arrest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/24-year-old-stabbed-to-death-near-haji-malang/story-bST2k72P0jVotbqwh0C7ZL.html
25-05-2020||Mumbai||Do not reopen schools in June, stakeholders tell education department||As the state education department is exploring possible options to reopen schools in some parts of the state in June, experts have said the government should not rush to restart schools.The department had asked for suggestions from the stakeholders including school owners, principals and parents regarding reopening schools in the state. Most responses opposed starting of schools before July. “While red zone areas are at a high risk, even green zones have some risk involved because migration is taking place from red zones to green zones and cases might come up. Reopening schools might put the lives of lakhs of students at risk, and thus needs to be pushed as late as possible,” said the head of a school chain in Mumbai. On May 23, state education minister Varsha Gaikwad spoke to a set of experts and senior officials in the education department. “Almost all stakeholders agreed that classes must not begin for primary students till at least July-end. Some suggested extending the guidelines for students till Class 8. School for Classes 9 and 10 could begin in green zones and orange zones,” said an expert present at the meeting. Parents said the department should wait and continue with online teaching until the risk is completely eliminated. “There is no point in hurrying at the moment as we all know there is immense risk involved. Parents won’t send their children to schools in such a situation even if they reopen,” said Anubha Sahai, president of the India Wide Parents Association. Anil Bornare, coordinator of BJP Teachers Cell, said in cities like Mumbai where many schools are in densely populated areas, following social distancing norms is a tough task. “It is okay if there is a delay in reopening but this risk cannot be taken,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/do-not-reopen-schools-in-june-stakeholders-tell-education-department/story-ULbMG6VGEKuBXOJRmPhQcM.html
25-05-2020||City||22 Covid positive cases in Panvel takes total to 393||Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) on Monday recorded 22 Covid positive cases, taking the total to 393. Two deaths were reported.A 55-year-old woman, a resident of Taloja, had diabetes and died after testing positive. A 81-year-old woman from New Panvel passed away after being infected.Four of a family from Kharghar tested positive. Three members of a policeman’s family from Kharghar also tested positive.Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) recorded 65 Covid positive cases on Monday, taking the total tally to 1,711.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/22-covid-positive-cases-in-panvel-takes-total-to-393/story-4ZN8Hz6sRamRhI7yYbF19J.html
25-05-2020||Mumbai||With migrants leaving city, housing societies face shortage of security staff||Several housing societies in the city have lost their security guards as migrant workers have started leaving the city. A considerable chunk of the migrants who left the city were security personnel manning building gates or commercial establishments; and their departure has led to a dearth of manpower. In many housing societies, members have started taking turns for daily chores such as operating water pumps and electricity meters, while a few others have wooed their security personnel with extra incentives. Agencies providing security personnel said half of their workforce has left and there was no possibility of their return anytime soon. “Housing societies are complaining about shortage of security personnel as most of them have left the city in the past few days. Working committees of the societies are facing many challenges; from complying with the municipal corporation norms related to health protocols of tenants to arranging security. In the absence of the security personnel, the tenants are left with no option but to take responsibilities of daily chores including operations of water pumps and electricity meters,” said Nitin Nikam, president, Tilak Nagar Residents Welfare Association. He also said that in the absence of the security personnel, incidents of thefts are on the rise and are expected to increase gradually. Amar Bahadur Singh, partner, Ranger Security Services, said 60% of his workforce has left the job and many among the remaining are about to leave at the first possible opportunity. “Most of the security personnel engaged in Mumbai are from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh, and draw monthly salary between ₹8,000 and ₹15,000. We have not been able to provide security personnel to many housing societies despite having agreements,” he said. He, however, said there would be a trend of influx in the next few weeks as the labourers cannot afford to stay back in their home states. “There are no jobs and other facilities there in their home states, making it difficult for them to look after their families by living there,” he said.Mahendra Hemdev of Marine Drive Residents Association said the society he lives in has made arrangements for helps and security personnel to stay at building premises. “They come from far flung areas like Virar and Vasai with their families at their native places. We could retain them because of the arrangements. I know a society in Khar where the society members manage everything from security to other activities themselves after their security personnel left,” he said. Santosh Singh, director of Bombay Intelligence Security – an agency with more than 7,000 employees serving various societies in the city, said, “We have been managing our workforce by providing them accommodation and food facilities. We fear that many of our employees may leave after drawing this month’s salary. Many of them have made their passes and are waiting for their turns.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/with-migrants-leaving-city-housing-societies-face-shortage-of-security-guards/story-iStnd75RHCz8HilJxVqcsM.html
25-05-2020||Mumbai||Recovery rate of Covid positive BEST staff crosses 50%||The recovery rate of Covid-19 positive employees of the Brihanmumbai Electricity Supply and Transport (BEST) undertaking reached 50% on Monday with four patients getting discharged in a single day, said BEST officials.Data released by undertaking on Monday states that of the 208 BEST staffers, who tested positive including five cases reported on Monday, 104 have successfully battled the disease and have been discharged. There have also been eight deaths.“As compared to others (other government undertakings), till date we have managed to control the spread of the virus among our staffers. We are the only public undertaking who managed a recovery rate of 50%. There were around eight fatalities; we are working on it,” said Dr Anil Kumar Singhal, chief medical officer, BEST.In addition, 80% of the patients currently under treatment are either asymptomatic or only have mild symptoms. BEST administration is confident that more patients will be discharged soon and the recovery rate will increase further. However, three staffers have been admitted in intensive care units (ICU) while 10 are on oxygenated beds in critical condition.Elaborating on the matter, Singhal said the first BEST employee tested positive on April 14, following which BEST medical department with civic health staff conducted massive screening operation. Thousands of BEST workers and their family members who possibly came in contact with positive patients have been screened for symptoms since then.“This immediate screening of suspected patients helps identify positive patients at their early stage, which helps improve chances of recovery,” said Singhal.However, Shashank Sharad Rao, leader of BEST Sanyukta Kamgar Kruti Samiti (BSKKS), accused BEST administration of poor management. “The number of BEST staffers testing positive each day is increasing because the administration is not taking proper care of its staff. There were no social distancing in buses and staffers were carrying out duty without gloves and sanitiser.”Refuting these allegations, Singhal said BEST is taking all necessary steps to maintain the health and safety of their staffers and their family members.More than 150 staffers were kept under home quarantine to avoid further spread of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/recovery-rate-of-covid-positive-best-staff-crosses-50/story-W6YFlIe4BW6Tk6NHqgcuIN.html
25-05-2020||Gurugram||No movement pass required for airport, railway station||No movement pass will be required to cross the Delhi -Gurugram border to travel to airports and railway stations in Delhi, according to an order issued by the district administration on Monday.With domestic flights resuming from Monday onwards and trains to be operational from June 1, deputy commissioner Amit Khatri issued an order stating that cab operators like Ola and Uber, and other taxi services will be allowed to operate across the borders. However, cab crossing the Delhi-Gurugram can only be booked for the airport and railway stations and for dropping passengers home. Passengers who have confirmed air or train e-tickets will be allowed to travel from airports or railway stations to their homes and vice versa. They will not require any movement pass for it. As per the order, cab operators will have to ensure only police verified cab drivers are allowed to operate. Cab drivers and passengers will have to use masks and social distance has to be ensured, while the car has to be sanitised after every use. State officials said central government guidelines for quarantine will be followed for domestic flight passengers coming to Haryana||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/no-movement-pass-required-for-airport-railway-station/story-fA1I4qEk63rAmhiVcVjA8J.html
25-05-2020||Noida||Noida’s wholesale vegetable market will open only for three hours daily||From Wednesday, the wholesale market for vegetables and fruits in Noida Sector 88 will now be open only for three hours. The timings have been changed due to the reduction in number of vendors visiting the market as many vegetable sellers have left for their home towns in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, officials said.“The market will be open for only three hours from 4am to 7am from Wednesday onwards. Presently, the market is functioning from 10pm to 6am. Shop owners had requested the change in timings as vendors usually come in the wee hours. Also, earlier over 400 trucks were arriving at the mandi, but now less than 200 truck-load goods are being sold,” said Santosh Kumar Yadav, secretary of Noida Mandi Board, on Monday.Regarding maintaining of social distancing, Yadav said, “We are trying to maintain it as far as possible.” There are a total of 115 shops in the mandi which sell vegetables and fruits. However, shop owners at the mandi complained that the visiting vendors do not follow the social distancing norms. “When we try to stop them, they start quarrelling with us. But all visitors are being given entry through the sanitization tunnel,” said Mange Ram Sharma, a representative of Shop Owners’ Welfare Association.Raj Singh, another member of the association, said that there’s a fall in the number of sellers as well as buyers by more than 50%. “Hence, we requested to reschedule the timings of the market. Three hours in the early morning are sufficient as only a few buyers and sellers would come at nights,” Singh said.Meanwhile, Gajendra Tyagi, secretary, Dadri Mandi Board, said, “At Dadri, we just have 20 shops where vegetables are sold. Presently, around 200 quintal vegetables are sold daily. We are trying to maintain the social distancing norms.” Salim, a shop owner in Dadri mandi, said, “We are operating in three shifts to maintain social distancing.”Malkhan Singh, secretary, Dankaur and Jewar Mandi Board, said, “At Dankaur, around 15 shops sell vegetables and around 35 vendors sell vegetables at Jewar. We are maintaining proper social distance.” Farmers complain of low price for their produceDue to the lockdown, farmers, who sell their produce at the wholesale mandi in Noida Sector 88, said they are getting Rs 2 to 8 per kilogram for various vegetables in auctions. However, whole sellers are selling the produce for Rs10 to 15 per kg and retailers sell it at Rs 20 to 25 in residential sectors.Virendra Dhada, farmer leader and former chairman of district panchayat, said on Monday, “Farmers bring their produce to the wholesale market. Their produce is auctioned here. For tomatoes these days, farmers normally get Rs 2 to Rs 3 per kg. They are sold at Rs 10 per kg by in wholesalers. Then retailers purchase the vegetable from here and sell it at Rs 20 to Rs 25 per kg.”“Likewise, cucumber is purchased from farmers at Rs 5 per kg. It is sold in wholesale at Rs 10 to 15, and at Rs 20 to 40 in retail. Bitter gourd purchased from farmers at Rs 7 per kg is sold at Rs 15 to 20 in wholesale and Rs 40 to 50 in urban residential areas by retailers. While for lady fingers, farmers get Rs 8 per kg, and the vegetable is sold at Rs 15 to 20 at wholesale and Rs 40 to 50 in retail,” said Dhada.Hargovind Singh, a vegetable farmer who came to the wholesale market, said, “In the last one week, I got a price of Rs 2 to 3 per kg for tomatoes in auction at the mandi. Now, I plan to sell my produce directly in nearby urban areas in retail.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-s-wholesale-vegetable-market-will-open-only-for-three-hours-daily/story-61OV5o3Ni56QZMLU1ZJjGJ.html
25-05-2020||Noida||Probe ordered after fire breaks out at Noida authority’s main admin building, none hurt||A fire broke out in the industrial accounts department of the Noida authority’s main administrative building in Sector 6 around 8.45am, gutting important files. The cause of the fire is yet unknown, and the authority has set up a six-person committee, to be headed by its additional chief executive officer Praveen Mishra, to probe the matter.The Noida building was shut on Monday when the fire broke out due to Eid, and there were no injuries. Four fire tenders were sent to the spot, and doused the fire in two hours. The office is housed in a single-storey building near the arterial Udyog Marg. Officials said it seemed the fire may have caused due to a short circuit, but added that the exact cause would be determined only after the probe report is submitted.“We got a call at 9.10am about a fire in the industrial accounts section of the building. We used four fire tenders to control the fire. No one was injured, but some files were burnt,” said Arun Kumar, Gautam Budh Nagar’s chief fire officer.The committee has been asked to submit the probe report in a week’s time, officials said.The committee will also aim to establish responsibility for the incident, and will evaluate losses in the fire. Crucial files in the industrial department related to land allotment and other details related to industrial property were unaffected.“Only the false ceiling and some furniture caught fire in the industrial department,” said Avinash Tripathi, officer on special duty, Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/probe-ordered-after-fire-breaks-out-at-noida-authority-s-main-admin-building-none-hurt/story-2tVoetUeuDiKI5CQjPmqfK.html
25-05-2020||Delhi||Six workers in home quarantine evicted by house owner for not paying rent||A man was arrested for evicting six tenants who were under home quarantine in outer Delhi’s Nangloi, after they came in contact with a Covid-19 patient, for not paying their rent, the police said on Monday.While the police are yet to contact the evicted men, all of whom are daily wage workers, an investigator said they have reached their village in Bihar’s Bhojpur district, after hiring a private vehicle.The landlord, Sona Lal (41), was booked under the Indian Penal Code’s Section 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by a public servant) and the Disaster Management Act’s Section 51 (refusal to comply with government’s directions), according to A Koan, deputy commissioner of police (outer district).“In the first week of May, two of these workers had visited Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital to meet a friend who had fallen. That man was later tested positive for Covid-19,” Koan said.“The two men and the four others they lived with were put under home quarantine,” he said.Koan said that they were put under home quarantine from May 11 to May 25 on the orders of the Punjabi Bagh sub-divisional magistrate.“On Friday evening, when a constable visited them to ensure they were complying with quarantine norms, he found the six men were missing,” the DCP said.“We booked and arrested the landlord after we were informed that he had evicted the six men,” Koan said.The officer said neighbours and residents of the area said the men were evicted for not paying rent.An officer involved in the investigation said Sona Lal denied the claims, and said the six sneaked out of the house on Wednesday without informing him.“While we continue to probe his claims, why would the tenants sneak out when only five days of their quarantine remained? If that was the case, the owner of the house should have alerted us,” the investigator said.In April, an order by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority had called for “strict compliance” of directions that landlords will not demand rent from migrant workers and students for a month. It required respective district magistrates to spread awareness about this directive and, in case of non-compliance, take legal action.The Delhi high court, last week, had ordered that while tenants would be liable to pay rent for the period the city has been under lockdown, the payments could be postponed owing to the circumstances.If convicted under the IPC’s Section 188, Lal could be jailed for a month, be fined Rs 200,or both. If he is found guilty under the Disaster Management Act, he could face between one or two years in prison.Since the lockdown, there have been multiple instances of confrontations between house owners and tenants over rent payments. The police have also booked several landlords for evicting their tenants or forcing them to pay rent during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/six-workers-in-home-quarantine-evicted-by-house-owner-for-not-paying-rent/story-u2emicyLff8NbLdt5ctMCK.html
25-05-2020||Noida||Zee News channel’s office sealed in Noida, 14 new cases reported||The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration on Monday sealed five-storeyed building of Zee Media in Film City, Sector 16A for its thorough sanitization and disinfection after another employee tested positive from a different floor of the building. All the previous cases of the media company were from fourth floor of the building, but an employee tested positive from second floor on May 24, health officials said.“Based on the finding of new positive case in different floor of the building, the entire building has been closed for sanitization and containment of the disease to other places as per the Epidemic Disease (COVID-19) Regulation Act, 2020. The entry of employees has been stopped till the building is completely disinfected,” Dr Sunil Dohre, district surveillance officer, said in a release on Monday.The release further stated that after due sanitization and following the safety protocols, the building will get fitness certificate from health officials to resume its operation.On Monday, 10 employees of the news channel tested positive. “All patients were in institutional quarantine. While nine of them hailed from GB Nagar, one was cross-notified to Delhi. They all have been shifted to the hospital for treatment. The five-storey office building has been closed for sanitization and disinfection,” said Dohre.So far, a total of 49 Zee Media employees have been found positive for the infection. Of the 49 patients, 33 are from GBN, the health officials said. After the first case was reported from Zee on May 15, the health department had taken 51 samples of employees, of which 28 were found Covid-19 positive. Till now, health officials have screened 400 employees of the organization to trace close contacts of the positive patients. Besides, samples of 50 more employees who are close contacts of the positive patients are collected and they have been put under institutional quarantine, the officials said.When contacted, Sudhir Chaudhary, editor-in-chief of Zee News, said that right from day 1, when the first lot of his employees were sent for sampling, Zee Media is following all the Covid-19 safety norms. “It is the biggest media house that has volunteered sampling of all its employees. For us, the safety of our employees is on top priority. We are getting the tests of those employees at our own cost, where the district administration is not able to do it on time,” he said.Hoping that his team will emerge as Corona warriors soon, he said most of the employees are either quarantined or have been assigned to work from home. “I am sure that our team of dedicated journalists will soon come into action again,” Chaudhary said.Meanwhile, the overall tally of Covid-19 cases in the district has gone to 359 with addition of 14 new cases on Monday. However, five patients, undergoing treatment for the coronavirus disease, were discharged after being cured, the health officials said. The district surveillance officer said that of these 14 new Covid-19 cases, 13 were tested positive from different government labs in the district while one was tested positive in a private lab. “Till Monday evening, the number of positive cases reported in the district was 359. Of them, 235 people have been discharged from different hospitals. While five patients have so far lost their lives and 16 have been cross notified from other districts and states, we now have only 119 active cases,” Dohre said.About other five patients, Dohre said that they were from various areas of the district and were found suffering from influenza like illness. “The list includes a 55-year-old male of Sector 105, a 63-year-old male of Sector 12, an 11-year-old boy of Sector 5, a 24-year-old male from Salarpur village and a 68-year-old female of Sector 36,” he said.The district surveillance officer also said that so far 10,222 samples have been taken for testing in the district. “Since Sunday, 199 samples have been sent to different government laboratories and another 144 samples to the private laboratories. GB Nagar’s sampling ratio of 4,867 samples per million is also better than national sampling ratio of 2,333. This shows strong surveillance system in the district,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/zee-news-channel-s-office-sealed-in-noida-14-new-cases-reported/story-XiiXvREeNF3950yQA5nwyK.html
25-05-2020||Noida||Eid in lockdown, special meals in community kitchens, prayers at home||With several areas of the two cities being containment zones, Noida and Ghaziabad saw deserted mosques as people celebrated the festival of Eid in their homes and offered prayers indoors. Stating that this is one of the most isolated Eids they have ever experienced, imams of different mosques in Noida supported the social distancing and praying at homes, saying this is for the well being of everyone.Meanwhile, community kitchens in Noida prepared special meals for poor and migrant workers on Monday, with the community kitchen at Mamura, one of the biggest in the city, adding sewaiyan (sweet vermicelli) to its menu for over 12,000 people.“A festival is a festival but given the current scenario this is the best we could do. For Eid, we decided to change the menu for a day so instead of regular khichdi or sabzi-chapatti, we prepared poori, sabzi, pulao and sewaiyan for lunch and it was distributed among 12,000 people, including those living in the slums of Chijarsi, sector 62 and 63, and the shelter home at Mamura, including others,” said Vir Singh, a tehsildar and head of the Mamura community kitchen. He added that though the number of takers of meals have dropped by two to three thousands due to the reverse-migration, meals are however still being served.At the Harola community kitchen as well, the menu was made special to mark the occasion. “We replaced regular khichdi with poori and sabzi for Eid today and about 8,000 meals were distributed today,” said Rajiv Malhotra, head, Harola community kitchen in Noida.According to the imam of Greater Noida’s Shahberi mosque, Muhammad Zakir Nadvi, only five people went to the mosque as a festive gesture to offer prayers, while it was made clear for others to offer prayers at their respective homes.“Last year, over 2,000 people offered prayers on Eid at the Shahberi mosque but this year, it was only five of us. Word was spread that people must read namaaz and celebrate Eid within their houses. Right now, the highest priority is to fight this pandemic,” said Nadvi. He added that the mosque at Sector76 and the Jama Mosque at Sector 8 also bore a deserted look, with only five people offering prayers, against a gathering of over 10,000 seen last year.Raza, who works as an electrician, also had a distinct Eid. While his family was stuck in the Sarfabad area of Noida, which was declared a containment zone and sealed a few days back, he got stuck elsewhere and now lives at a friend’s place in Bhangel, Noida.“On Saturday night, my area was declared a containment zone while I was still out installing an AC somewhere. My family suggested I stay out and go to a friend’s place so I can still continue my work. This Eid is so different, when even indoors, I can’t celebrate with my family despite being in the same city,” he said.Zakir Ali, a resident of Ghaziabad’s Dasna, also said that the Eid was different, but he supported the call of social distancing.“Everyone in our area stayed indoors and it was clarified earlier only that the mosques will remain closed. This is the first time when I did not go to the mosque on Eid, but I understand. It’s this pandemic that we need to stop first. Thankfully, our country is safe from its clutches as compared with the way it spread in Italy and the US, so we support the administration,” said Ali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/eid-in-lockdown-special-meals-in-community-kitchens-prayers-at-home/story-3CyfVHmHLI6hEgAAoo9VBO.html
25-05-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Doctors, staff of Women’s Hospital in quarantine after 30-year-old woman tests positive for Covid-19||Ghaziabad: At least 13 healthcare workers, including five doctors, at the Women’s Hospital in Ghaziabad were sent to 14 days of quarantine after a 30-year-old woman, who delivered twins on May 23, tested positive for the coronavirus (Covid-19) on the evening of May 24. The hospital authorities said that by the time the reports of the woman came through, at least 23 normal deliveries and six C-sections has been done in the same labour room after the 30-year-old’s delivery.According to hospital authorities, the woman, who is from Siddharth Vihar, was admitted to the hospital, located within the MG Hospital complex, on May 23 and delivered her first daughter, at around 4pm while she delivered her second daughters 41 minutes later. She was discharged on the afternoon of May 24. She as well as the twins have now been admitted to the Sanjay Nagar District Hospital, a dedicated Covid facility.“We had got her sampling done on May 22 and the reports came out positive for Covid-19 on the evening of May 24. But by then the damage was done. We prepared a list of our staff who had attended to the delivery and other works. These include five doctors and five nurses besides one pharmacist and two class IV employees. All these were sent to quarantine at a facility arranged for them at the third floor of the hospital on Monday,” said Dr Deepa Tyagi, the chief medical superintendent of the hospital.The hospital has also suspended deliveries on Monday and referred patients to other government facilities in Ghaziabad and Meerut.“We took up only one delivery at 5am on Monday as the woman was admitted with us. Rest of the eight women who were admitted for deliveries were sent to other government facilities in ambulances to Meerut and Dasna in Ghaziabad,” Dr Tyagi added.The health department late Sunday night had issued a list of 10 positive cases and the list included two Covid-19 positive pregnant women - one of these is the woman from Siddharth Vihar while the other is a Nandgram resident.“The records of the second woman from Nandgram are being traced. So far, we have come to know that the second woman did not deliver at our hospital and possibly mentioned wrongly in the list,” Dr Tyagi added.Woman, husband and twins kept in waiting for two hours in ambulance:To add to woes, the woman from Siddharth Vihar, after she tested positive, was brought to the L2 category dedicated Covid-19 hospital at the Sanjay Nagar District Hospital but the staff also brought along her husband in the same ambulance with couple’s two newborn daughters.“We waited with our two daughters in the ambulance for two hours but hospital officials did not admit my wife to the hospital. The ambulance was made to wait at the gate of the Covid ward in scorching heat,” the husband said.Ambulance driver Vinod Kumar and emergency medical technician Brij Kishor, who were tasked to ferry the woman in the ambulance, said that the ambulance arrived at the hospital at around 11.57am and kept waiting till 1.50pm.“The hospital authorities and the chief medical officer (CMO) were in talks about whether to admit the twins along with the mother or not. We have the Covid-19 positive report of the patient. But the discussion took time and the couple kept waiting in the ambulance at the main gate,” Vinod Kumar said.Dr NK Gupta, CMO, said he will inquire why the husband of the woman was brought along in the same ambulance.“There was absolutely no need to bring her husband in the same ambulance. There was delay in admitting the woman as initially, the Sanjay Nagar hospital authorities told us that the reports of the woman were not available with them. Later, there was a delay to finalise whether the newborn twins should be admitted to the hospital along with their mother or not. Finally, it was decided that the twins will be admitted and their Covid-19 tests will be conducted,” the CMO said.Over the issue of quarantine of the staff members of the Women’s Hospital, the CMO said that they will be in quarantine for a period of 14 days.“We will get their tests conducted. The entire labour room was sanitised as per procedure and will resume functioning from Tuesday. We are also getting the list of other women whose deliveries were conducted in the same labour room. Their tests will also be conducted,” he added.Dr Naresh Vij, the chief medical superintendent of the Sanjay Nagar Covid Hospital, did not respond to repeated calls for comments over the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-doctors-staff-of-women-s-hospital-in-quarantine-after-30-year-old-woman-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-E6OZxZsc8YPRLk0Skmi6nJ.html
25-05-2020||Noida||Over two-thirds of the workforce of NSEZ units return to work||As many as 21,867 workers have returned to their jobs and another 9,000 are working from home as on May 24, after the government granted permission for resumption of commercial activities in special economic zones (SEZs) and export-oriented units (EOUs), during the third and fourth phases of the ongoing nationwide lockdown from May 6.The Noida Special Economic Zone (NSEZ) units initially weren’t very successful in bringing back their workforce in the first week of May as only 2,000 workers of the total strength of 45,000, could resume their work.SEZ development commissioner (north India) Lalit B Singhal said bringing back nearly 31,000 of the 45,000, which is over 68%, in less than three weeks was a major achievement. “These numbers indicate that even during the crisis caused by pandemic, the NSEZ units are providing economic support to 30,000-odd families. I am sure that if the situation improves, then our units will run with at full strength by mid-July,” he said.Singhal further said that apart from these 30,867 workers, as many as 83,000 others are also working from home as part of the IT units of NSEZ. “We have provided opportunity to young men and women of this region to work from home and support their families at this difficult juncture. Their services are also having a positive impact on export and creating more forex. To facilitate them, we had permitted companies to allow them to take laptops and desktops home. We have so far allowed around 45,000 laptops and desktops for them,” he said.The development commissioner also said units operating in 34 SEZs of this region, covering Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, have made exports of ₹70,800 crore in the fiscal 2019-20. “In the same fiscal, these SEZs generated 3.8 lakh direct employments, besides creating over 10 lakh indirect jobs. The nationwide lockdown caused by Covid-19 has halted the operation and growth. But since we have restarted slowly but steadily, we are sure to regain momentum within two months,” he said.Even units operating in NSEZ, are also hopeful of a quick revival. Ashish Pradhan, chief executive officer (CEO) of e-Shakti, a customised garment unit in NSEZ, said his company has already reached 50% of its pre-Covid capacity. “There were 1,430 staff members present on the eve of the lockdown. When we recommenced on May 7, we had about 200 employees back on the first day, which reached 724 on Saturday. I am expecting it to be over 875 (61% of our capacity) before the month is over. Since increasing manpower to optimum level is difficult, as factories have been asked to follow social distancing norms strictly, we will ask for more space in the NSEZ to overcome this problem,” he said.Echoing similar views, Ajay Goel, president of NSEZ entrepreneurs’ association, said the quick turnaround has brought a lot of positivity and optimism to workers. “The lockdown will cause a loss of around 10% revenue this financial year. But, as our workers have started coming back to work and China is all set to face the crisis in the long run, we are all set to grow at 20% the coming financial year. Our workers are mostly migrants from Bihar and UP. As the agriculture sector at this time of the year does not provide occupation for many, they have started expressing an interest to return to work. Due to unavailability of transport, workers from Bihar are finding it more difficult to return as compared to their UP counterparts,” he said.Anticipating things to be normalised by July-end, another NSEZ entrepreneur Tarun Matreja of Usha Fabs Private Limited said that due to lockdown, the NSEZ units could not fulfil the pending orders within the promised delivery period of 9-13 days. “However, we remained in constant touch with our customers informing them about delay in their orders. We are deeply grateful to thousands of our customers who chose to wait and not cancel orders. Now, we have shipped out more than 80% of these delayed orders,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/over-two-thirds-of-the-workforce-of-nsez-units-return-to-work/story-iTXjHkwRIdEjBl6vN8XLML.html
25-05-2020||Noida||7-day institutional quarantine mandatory for international travellers||The Uttar Pradesh government has made a seven-day institutional quarantine mandatory for all international travellers reaching the state followed by a seven-day home quarantine. Certain special cases, however, may get exceptions.Only in cases of human distress, pregnancy, death in family, serious illness and parents travelling with children below the age of 10 years would be permitted to spent all 14 days in home quarantine.The Union ministry of health and family welfare had on May 24 issued guidelines for international travellers coming to India. According to these, a 14-day quarantine was mandatory for all travellers who will also have to download the Aarogya Setu app on their phones. Only asymptomatic people are allowed into enter the country while all symptomatic persons will be isolated and taken to medical centres. Positive cases shall be taken to designated Covid-19 centres while all others will isolate themselves at home for at least seven days.Following these guidelines, the Uttar Pradesh (UP) government has instructed all district administrations and police departments to ensure that the protocols are followed.“All passengers will be made to sign an undertaking before boarding the aircraft that of the 14 days of quarantine, seven would be spent in institutional quarantine at their own expense and the remaining seven day in isolation at home, where their health must be monitored round the clock,” the order from the UP government said.The UP government on Sunday had also issued guidelines for domestic travellers as flight operations resumed on Monday after remaining grounded for almost two months. India has been under a nationwide lockdown since March 24 and the fourth phase of the lockdown will continue till May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/7-day-institutional-quarantine-mandatory-for-international-travellers/story-OAvI0p2gYBOpStXql0ev8H.html
25-05-2020||City||17-year-old boy held for killing 75-year-old in robbery attempt||A 17-year-old boy was apprehended by the Dankaur police on Monday in connection with the murder of a 75-year-old man on the intervening night of May 21 and 22. The police said the murder weapon was recovered from his possession and he was sent to a juvenile observation home.On the morning of May 22, the body of the victim was found near the tubewell of his residence, where he used to sleep, in Ishepur village under the Dankaur police. Upon, finding his phone and torch missing, the police suspected he was murdered during a robbery attempt and registered a case in this regard.The victim’s son works in the defence ministry, the police said.According to police officials, the suspect had been seen with the victim the night before. He was detained and questioned, after which he confessed to the crime, the police said.“The boy knew the victim for the past year and a half, and was under the impression that Sharma would have at least a few thousands (of rupees) on him. On the night of the incident, he assaulted him but when the victim resisted, he attacked him with a knife and bricks, causing his death,” said Rajesh Kumar Singh, the deputy commissioner of police, Zone 3.On the day of the incident, the victim had ₹50 on him, which was taken by the boy. The mobile phone, torch and knife were recovered later, the police said.“The boy’s father had left the family 13 years ago while his mother had died due to a prolonged illness two years ago. He had been living with his maternal grandparents in the village. His family said that he had fallen in bad company over the past few months,” said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/17-year-old-boy-held-for-killing-75-year-old-in-robbery-attempt/story-OeELGMP5PpWGeGuqAYCNxN.html
25-05-2020||Delhi||Staff at Delhi health minister’s office Covid-19 positive||A person working at Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain’s office tested Covid-19 positive, a government official said on Monday.The official further said the employee had tested positive on Sunday, following which he was quarantined and the minister’s office sanitised. The employee is posted at the health minister’s office, outside his residence in Civil Lines. He did not visit the minister’s office at the Delhi Secretariat since May 4, when all government offices, including the Secretariat reopened with one-third the staff strength, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/staff-at-delhi-health-minister-s-office-covid-19-positive/story-Wcxzcd2xoD6Grqlr1cRIxO.html
25-05-2020||City||Acting principals of Delhi College of Arts, Sri Aurbindo (evening) divested of charge||New Delhi: The Delhi University administration Sunday night repatriated the officiating principals of Delhi College of Arts and Commerce (DCAC) and Sri Aurobindo College (evening) back to their parent college, the Sri Aurobindo College (morning). As per the provisions of the Ordinance XVIII 3(C) of the University, an officer on special duty (OSD) is ordinarily appointed for a period of six months as officiating principal of a college, if and when the need arises. The term can be extended with the prior approval of the vice-chancellor.“Rajiv Chopra, appointed as OSD for DCAC on October 1, 2013, has completed more than six years as OSD. I am directed to inform that Rajiv Chopra may be repatriated back to his parent college with immediate effect,” DU’s deputy registrar (colleges) wrote in a letter to the University Representative of DCAC.“The chairperson/university representatives of the governing body of the college is requested to temporarily hand over the charge of principal to the most senior teacher of the college, who fulfils the minimum eligibility requirements for appointment as principal,” the letter added.Chopra said he was unaware of the reason as to why he was “suddenly” repatriated back to his parent college from the post of officiating principal. “I have no idea why the university administration has made this decision overnight. I have been serving DCAC since 2013 as officiating principal and was later selected as the principal, but the matter was taken to the court and it is still sub judice,” he said.Namita Rajput, who has been serving as OSD at Sri Aurobindo College (evening) for three years, has also been repatriated to her parent college, the Sri Aurobindo College (morning). “We got a letter from the university representative. Ordinarily, OSDs are appointed for six months or till a permanent appointment is made, whichever is earlier. Their term can be extended. I completed three years at SAC (evening) in April as officiating principal and have been repatriated to my parent college with immediate effect,” Rajput said.Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) president Rajib Ray questioned the timing of the letters. “OSDs should be there for six months and that time period in both cases has elapsed multiple times. The repatriation letter also has glaring errors like addressing OSDs as principals. This should be rectified and a complete governing body of the college concerned should take appropriate action.”A senior university official said the decision was taken because both principals had completed their terms as officiating principals. “The tenure of officiating principals is six months. Both the principals have competed their terms a long time ago. There is nothing controversial about the decision,” the official said. Despite several attempts, DU vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi did not respond to calls and messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/acting-principals-of-delhi-college-of-arts-sri-aurbindo-evening-divested-of-charge/story-mUhFRM7rRnw7gzYQBPlvsL.html
25-05-2020||Delhi||AAP’s Sanjay Singh and BJP trade barbs on Tiwari playing cricket in Haryana||Aam Aadmi Party leader (AAP) and Rajya Sabha member of Parliament Sanjay Singh criticised the Delhi chief of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Manoj Tiwari, MP from North East Delhi, for playing cricket in Sonepat of Haryana in violation of the lockdown norms.Calling it an “insensitive act”, Singh said that the BJP MP is busy playing cricket when thousands of poor migrant labourers are walking back to their homes every day.Singh said, “But ignoring such a humanitarian crisis how can an elected public representative go to another state to play cricket? How can a public representative be so much insensitive?”The AAP leader also trained his guns at the BJP-led Haryana government, which, earlier this month, had banned the entry of even essential service providers. “The BJP-ruled (Manohar Lal) Khattar government stopping doctors or nurses, who work in Delhi but live in Haryana. The COVID warriors are being stopped and the BJP government has closed all the roads which are connecting Delhi and Haryana…But they don’t stop BJP MP Tiwari who had gone there to play cricket. This shows how insensitive the BJP is and how much hatred they have against the poor people,” Singh said.Tiwari hit back, saying the AAP is making an issue out of nothing. “I had permission to travel to the district in Haryana. The Centre has allowed sports activity in lockdown 4.0. There were no spectators and I ensured social distancing,” said Tiwari.Neelkant Bakshi, Delhi BJP’s media in-charge, said, “He had gone to meet someone in Gannaur with prior permission. On the request of a private stadium owner, he played there. He is the one who is on the ground since lockdown started helping and feeding the needy, which the AAP leaders have failed to do so.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aap-s-sanjay-singh-and-bjp-trade-barbs-on-tiwari-playing-cricket-in-haryana/story-oVdTtastSS5PUfJMXPwejK.html
25-05-2020||City||3,976 more migrants leave Mohali for UP, Bihar||As many as 3,976 migrant workers left the Mohali railway station in four Shramik Special trains on Monday. Around five such trains were allocated to carry passengers to UP, Bihar and Jharkhand. However, the Jharkhand train had to be cancelled as there were not enough consents, said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan.The first train carrying around 553 migrant workers departed at 10am for Araria station in Bihar while the second train carrying 485 migrants left for Bettiah station in Bihar at 1pm. The third train left the station at 4pm and carried 1,238 migrant workers to Maharajganj station in Uttar Pradesh. The fourth train with 1,600 migrants left for Balia in Uttar Pradesh at 6:30pm.DC said that after the first two trains saw major dropouts, the administration had to call passengers from nearby districts such as Fatehgarh Sahib, Ropar, Rajpura and even from Patiala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-976-more-migrants-leave-mohali-for-up-bihar/story-VtSU39wv2fMr784VbDx88I.html
25-05-2020||City||Lukewarm response to domestic flights in Punjab on Day 1||Low footfall of passengers was witnessed at Amritsar and Ludhiana airports on Monday as some domestic flights resumed operations after two months. There was strict vigil to ensure social distancing and that the passengers had Aarogya Setu app on their mobile phones. At Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport in Amritsar, two flights arrived from Jaipur (Spice Jet) and Delhi (Vistara,) carrying 16 and 25 passengers, respectively. The flights to Patna (Spice Jet) and Delhi (Indigo) ferried 39 and 31 passengers, respectively, as per the details shared by airport director Manoj Chansoria. The details of three more flights—one from Patna and two from Delhi — scheduled to land at Amritsar were not available till the filing of the report.Eleven passengers arrived from Delhi at Ludhiana’s Sahnewal airport in an Air India flight (9I-837) that reached around 2.35pm. The return flight to Delhi (9I-838) left from the airport at 3.20pm carrying just five passengers.According to Sahnewal airport director SK Sharan, 15 passengers had booked tickets from Delhi to Ludhiana, but four did not take the flight.Two flights which were scheduled to reach Amritsar from Mumbai were cancelled. “These flights were cancelled due to operational reasons. Most probably, these flights will start from June 1,” said Chansoria.“I am very happy that the domestic flights have resumed. I am desperate to meet parents,” said Aman Kumar, a student of Lovely Professional University, who boarded the flight to Patna.562 passengers land in Srinagar, 171 in Jammu Six flights carrying 562 passengers arrived at Srinagar airport on Monday, officials said, adding the first flight (Air Asia) reached at 7:25am. “All passengers were thoroughly screened for Covid-19 and their samples were taken,” officials said. As per the government guidelines, all the passengers were sampled for Covid-19 and then sent to quarantine centres, including some hotels, by the UT administration.As many as 351 passengers travelled to and from Jammu airport in five flights. Pravat Ranjan Beuria, director of Jammu airport, said, “Out of total eight flights scheduled to land at Jammu airport on Monday, three were cancelled by the operators from their origin airports.”“Operations started at 8.40am with the arrival of Air India flight from Delhi, followed by four more flights from Delhi and Srinagar. A total of 171 passengers arrived in Jammu on Monday,” said Beuria.Three flights, including Vistara from Srinagar, Indigo from Mumbai and Spicejet from Delhi, were cancelled on Monday morning.34 reach Kangra from Delhi: Thirty-four people landed at Gaggal airport in Kangra of Himachal Pradesh in a Spicejet flight from Delhi even as two Air India flights scheduled for Monday were cancelled.Deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said the aircraft landed at the airport at 12:20pm. Thirty-four passengers arrived. They were thermal-scanned and placed under institutional quarantine for seven days.”“Only Himachal residents are being allowed to come to the state with permission from the DM of the districts concerned,” said Prajapati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lukewarm-response-to-domestic-flights-in-punjab-on-day-1/story-Hi61bamRhmQuZopOpnbr6J.html
25-05-2020||City||Use less labour intensive alternatives in paddy sowing: PAU to farmers||Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) vice-chancellor (V-C) Baldev Singh Dhillon on Monday expressed concern over the shortage of labour amid the coronavirus lockdown and advised farmers to opt for alternative ways that are less labour intensive during the paddy sowing season.In a video message through Facebook handle of the university, Dhillon said, “Paddy sowing is labour intensive and I do not know whether the labour will be available for this season or not. I will recommend that alternative ways such as direct sowing and bed planting of rice should be opted.”‘MAKE USE OF WEEDICIDES IN CROPS’He said that farmers opting for bed planting and direct sowing of rice (DSR) technology should remain alert about the weed and use weedicides as recommended by the agricultural university. “Such weedicides can be sprayed through super seeder or lucky seeder machines, while sowing the crop,” the V-C said, adding that DSR technique is not recommended for light soil, but provides encouraging results in heavy and moderately heavy soil areas. V-C Dhillon also rubbished social media rumours that claim that the university was against the new technologies. “The university had given nod to bed planting of rice in 2007 and the technique of direct sowing of rice was given a nod in 2010,” he said, adding that a crop should be sown when there is enough moisture in the soil and air, and the field should be watered only after 21 days of sowing.The agricultural expert also said that the farmers who have never done direct sowing of rice should stick to the conventional method and use the new technology on one-fourth of the land on an experimental basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/use-less-labour-intensive-alternatives-in-paddy-sowing-pau-to-farmers/story-QqT93LBfYG1KeYfU5TICaI.html
25-05-2020||Gurugram||Covid-19 test results can now be accessed online in Gurugram||The district administration on Monday said test reports for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which were earlier shared by the health department through WhatsApp and telephonic calls, can now be viewed online.Officials said the online availability of reports will spare people awaiting test results unnecessary visits to hospitals or the health department. They added people can access their reports through the oneMap web portal (onemapggm.gmda.gov.in) and mobile application. People whose samples have been collected by the health department can click on the ‘Covid-19 Report Result’ option on the portal or the application following which they need to enter their registered mobile number. An OTP will be generated and sent on the mobile number and after entering it on the portal the person concerned can see the reports.Created by Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) for all Covid-19 related information, the oneMap is an integrated and detailed GIS (geographic information system) map of Gurugram. It already has a Covid-19 dashboard which provides information like total movement pass issued till now, details of relief shelters, number of vehicles fined during lockdown among other things“The GIS team of oneMap is providing the technical support at the back end for downloading the reports shared by the health department and district administration,” said Sonal Goel, additional chief executive officer, GMDA.Aparajita, assistant commissioner (under training), who is handling the project, said, “Test reports shared by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) team is being fed into the system. Irrespective of the fact the person is tested positive or negative, direct access to test reports can help the infection from spreading. Many suspected patients visit hospitals or approach the health department to inquire about their reports.”Thirteen new Covid-19 cases were reported on Monday in Gurugram. Two people each from Jacobpura, Hari Nagar, and Khandsa tested positive while one case each was reported from Sector 52, Krishna Colony, Kadipur, Sirhol, Shikohpur, Shakti Park, and village Begumpur Khatol. Till now, 284 cases have been reported , out of which 118 are still under treatment. Two people have died of Covid-19 in Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/covid-19-test-results-can-now-be-accessed-online-in-gurugram/story-oFfoLrrd6Ec59wbOqo8h4N.html
25-05-2020||Gurugram||Students clean cars to raise funds for underprivileged||Over 30 teenage residents of The Ivy condominium in Sushant Lok-1 have joined hands to raise funds for underprivileged people during the lockdown by cleaning cars of the occupants.The young residents, who have formed a group called Santa Brigade, step out around 6am and clean at least 10 cars in the condominium every day in return for money to buy groceries, fruits, vegetables, sanitisers and mask for the needy in their area.The brigade members said they have been able to collect ₹15,000 over the last three weeks. The car owners pay them anything between ₹200 and ₹1000 for a wash, they said.After the lockdown was imposed, the residents’ welfare association (RWA) of the condominium decided to engage only essential staff. Car cleaners were asked to resume work only after May 31. This gave the Santa Brigade an opportunity. Rannveir Malik (14), co-leader of the Santa Brigade, said that his elder brother college-going Siddhant (19), started the group on May 1. “Today we are a team of more than 30 students and we have already started to do some meaningful and satisfying work to help the needy by providing ration, vegetables, face masks, hand sanitisers, clothes and milk to people in need. We are collecting money and buying daily needs items for the needy,” he said. Muskaan Grover, a 17-year-old class 12 student, said that the initiative it made her realise the actual worth of money and hard work. “It felt good to serve those in need, especially in such difficult times. Such times call for unity and seeing everyone come together made me feel like there’s hope. We get up early morning and collectively wash cars, and with the donation we help the underprivileged people,” she said.Fondly called reindeers and elves (just like Santa’s team) by the RWA members, the group members are aged between 13 and 17 years. They used their pocket money to buy car-cleaning soft cloth and detergent. In their support, the RWA provides them water and space.The group has also helped a tailor who used to sit outside the condominium but was out of work because of the lockdown. The students now gets him to stitch masks to distribute them to the people in slums. “We provide the raw material and the tailor stitches nearly 100 masks every day and is paid ₹500 daily,” said Nihal Grover, another student.Vijay Chopra, RWA president, said that as a community they take pride in the heartwarming initiative of their children in condominium and are supporting them in the noble cause. “These children are literally sweating it out to raise funds for Santa Brigade. I am glad that the youngsters have come out of their comfort zone to reach out to the needy. I am sure the current times have taught them to be more grateful for all the help they have at home and also not take life and privileges for granted. We are proud of them and happy to support them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/students-clean-cars-to-raise-funds-for-underprivileged/story-fOEpsgnRHAv5dkdYY8d8rJ.html
25-05-2020||Gurugram||Private hospitals cannot deny treatment to Covid-19 patients: Gurugram administration||The district administration on Monday issued an order making it mandatory for all private hospitals and nursing homes to treat Covid-19 patients who require critical health services. No private hospital in the city can refuse admitting a Covid-19 patient, who is already undergoing treatment for other health issues. Instances have been reported where patients have been denied treatment after they tested positive for Covid-19. The district has so far witnessed 284 cases of the virus.Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, issued an order on Monday stating that private hospitals or nursing homes in Gurugram shall not refuse any patient approaching them for treatment of Covid-19 and other critical services. The order reads, “In the recent past it has come to notice that some private facilities are refusing to treat patients with symptoms of coronavirus and other critical services, which is a grave matter in times of such epidemic.” National capita Delhi has already directed all private hospitals to reserve 20% beds for Covid-19 patients.As per the order, if any hospital or nursing home refuses treatment to any patient, action will be taken against them under the Epidemic Act.Recently, a 25-year-old Covid-19 positive woman had to deliver her baby in Faridabad after a private hospital refused to admit her and Gurugram’s Civil Hospital turned her away for lack of facility for pregnant women who test positive for coronavirus. The health department, however, said that now they have converted its Sector 31 polyclinic as facility for Covid-19 pregnant women.Once a patient tests Covid-19 positive in private hospitals, almost 90% of the time they are referred to Civil Hospital, Sector 10. This often leaves them in a lurch, said Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer.“It has come to our notice that a person taking critical health services in a particular hospital, if detected with Covid-19, is immediately referred to the government hospital. Patients requiring special health treatment related to nephrology or cardiology cannot be left in a lurch even if they test positive for SARS-CoV-2 virus. It can prove to be detrimental to their health and even prove fatal.”A member of the Indian Medical Association member, who preferred anonymity, said, “Nursing homes are not equipped to tackle Covid-19 patients, especially they require critical care. Big hospitals having proper equipment and facilities should be considered.”Health officials said that private hospitals are referring out patients citing Medeor Hospital for critical Covid-19 patients. The 120-bed Medeor Hospital in Manesar is a designated Covid-19 hospital that was inaugurated this month for tertiary care. In Gurugram, 100-bed ESIC hospital and 30-bed Civil Hospital are admitting patients with Covid-19 symptoms. A few asymptomatic, especially male patients, are kept in Ssector 9 quarantine facility.As per the order, with rising cases of people infected with the virus, it is necessary to ensure optimum utilization of available resources, like private hospitals and nursing homes, for treatment of Covid-19 patient so as to ensure appropriate medical care is provided to all patients. Interestingly, the district administration this month had issued an order directing only six private hospitals of the city to keep 100 beds ready for Covid-19 patients.Despite all these arrangements, critical Covid-19 patients are shifted to PGIMS Rohtak. The city earlier this week reported two coronavirus deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/private-hospitals-cannot-deny-treatment-to-covid-19-patients-gurugram-administration/story-yQiIvHjabqPcPSs0HFBPBO.html
25-05-2020||Gurugram||Factory owners face 10-15% increase in expenses due to sanitisation measures||Members of the Udyog Vihar Chamber of Industries on Monday expressed concerns over a 10-15% escalation in operational costs brought on by the purchase of disinfectants, sanitisers, thermal screening devices, disinfectant tunnels and the other Covid-related expenses over the last month.The Haryana government’s standard operating procedure (SOP), issued on April 19, mandated these requirements for resuming operations of factories. The factory owners submitted affidavits, stating they would follow the guidelines, failing which they are liable to penalties, ranging up to the sealing of non-compliant units.Ashok Kohli, the president of the Udyog Vihar Chamber of Industries, said, “This is an additional expense that we are facing. The maintenance cost has escalated 10 to 15 per cent for every factory owner, as per a review of the maintenance expenses for the past one month. Even if lockdown ends by the end of the month, this additional expense will still be a liability and we will have to plan to adjust this expense in a suitable way.”In a meeting on Monday, factory owners said they are already facing losses due to the prolonged shutdown of factories and disruption of the supply chain.Manmohan Gaind, the president of Manesar Industry Welfare Association, said, “We are buying disinfectant chemicals in bulk. We bought hundreds of thermal scanning devices to check temperatures and many cartons of sanitisers. The total expense on all this, as per my calculation, amounted to roughly 20% of my monthly maintenance cost of factory premises. We have to comply with the guidelines, otherwise, my factory will be sealed. As this cost is mandatory, we are expending it from our profit margin. But currently, we are not making any profit at all after we resumed operations.”“We cannot increase the costs of products because we will lose our clients. We need to maintain patience and wait for the situation to stabilise once the Covid-19 fear is over and the pandemic is under control. Even after the government has allowed factories to restart, there are still many restrictions on the workers’ movement. We wish the government will do away with these restrictions,” said Praveen Yadav, the president of Gurgaon Udyog Association.The nationwide lockdown since March 25 forced factories to shut for a month and has currently led to a shortage of workers due to the exodus of migrant workers to their home states.“This is a critical phase for us. We cannot think of adjusting additional expenses by increasing product costs currently. We will take a call on it next month,” said Pawan Yadav, president of IMT Industrial Association, Manesar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/factory-owners-face-10-15-increase-in-expenses-due-to-sanitisation-measures/story-eiWRS37ktLI0tJb7sFCVRP.html
25-05-2020||City||Bihar child rights’ commission turns toothless body as govt delays appointments||PATNAThe Bihar state commission for protection of child rights (BSCPCR) has run out of its functional powers, courtesy lackadaisical approach of the state government.Set up in 2008, the commission has the authority to look after the interest of children, whether under the government’s protection or otherwise, and issue directions to the state agencies for compliance of its orders.However, the commission has turned ineffective after the post of all of its six members fell vacant on completion of their tenures. The state government had appointed Pramila Kumari as its chairperson in February this year, but it did not show any urgency to fill up the vacancies of members, superannuated early this month.A former member of the commission said that the chairperson alone was not empowered to take any decision without support of the members. As per the rules of BSCPCR’s constitution, the chairperson requires attendance of at least three out of the six members to take any decision.The BSCPCR hogged the media glare recently when its chairperson directed all private schools across the state to abstain from taking tuition fees, including transportation charge, for the months of March and April—the lockdown phase—when schools remain closed.“Technically, the direction was invalid, as it was taken without proper quorum of the commission. The quorum is complete only when at least four members, including the chairperson, is present in the meeting,” explained the former member, adding that the BSCPCR is also facing a major problem in executing its orders, as all the executive power is vested with the secretary, which is vacant since January.Chairperson Pramila Kumari said that the commission has requested the department to appoint a suitable person as the secretary of the commission to discharge the duty for the purpose it was constituted. “The post has fallen vacant in January on retirement of Kishori Paswan,” she said.Role of the commission assumes considerable significance during the phase of crises caused due to the outbreak of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as children, mostly living under the government’s protection or otherwise need special care to fight the pandemic. “It has the power to supervise functioning of the shelter homes for children, remand homes and look after the interest of the children at large,” said another a child development project officer (CDPO), posted with the commission.Principal secretary of social welfare department, Atul Prasad, said, “The process for selection of members of the commission would also be expedited once the department resumes normal functioning. The panel headed by the departmental minister would recommend the panel of members to the chief minister for his final clearance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bihar-child-rights-commission-turns-toothless-body-as-govt-delays-appointments/story-knDZRI1w9UB5gKaJaoU0aL.html
25-05-2020||Gurugram||Road rage: Senior executive of retail outlet assaulted in Gurugram||A 42-year-old senior executive of a retail outlet was allegedly assaulted on Sunday by three men in a case of road rage in Sushant Lok-1, the police said. The victim sustained injuries to his face and arm, they added. The police said they arrested the three suspects from Wazirabad Sunday late night and they were produced before the district and sessions court in Gurugram on Monday and were granted bail.According to the police, the incident took place around 5pm when the victim, Anish Khanna, was driving towards DLF Phase 4. When Khanna reached Block C of Sushant Lok-1, a Scorpio SUV coming from the opposite side collided head-on with his Maruti Suzuki Ciaz car, the police said. The bumpers of both cars suffered minor damage, they added.“I was driving my car from Sushant Lok-1 towards a condominium in DLF Phase 4. As I exited gate 1 of Block C, a Scorpio Car coming from the HUDA Metro station side at a high speed suddenly turned towards the gate without giving an indication and hit my car,” said Khanna, a resident of Ardee City.According to the police, the man driving the SUV demanded money for the damage. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said, “The victim asked him to come along to the police station following which he started making phone calls. They both drove to the police station in their own cars. Meanwhile, the prime suspect, Dev Singh, called his two friends, Pradeep Prasad and Purshottam Prasad, who came on a motorbike,” he said.The police officers at the Sushant Lok police station advised them to visit Sector 43 police station as the alleged incident was out of their jurisdiction following which the two parties left the police station.“As we entered the Sushant Lok-1 gate, the Scorpio car, which had two people inside now, intercepted my way. One of the suspects was on the bike. They got down from their vehicles and attacked me and my car. One of them started smashing the windscreen and broke it, while the other man broke the rearview mirror and smashed the driver side window,” said Khanna. He added that he tried to protect his face as the suspects started hitting him while he was standing near the car.“I was bleeding severely from my right arm. I rushed to the emergency of a private hospital and got my treatment done. On my way back, I informed the police control room,” said Khanna.The police said the victim had provided the SUV’s registration number and they identified the three suspects, who are from Wazirabad, after checking the CCTV camera footage of the incident.A case was registered against the three suspects under sections 279 (rash driving), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 336 (act of endangering life), 341 (wrongful restraint), 427 (causing damage) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Sushant Lok police station on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/road-rage-senior-executive-of-retail-outlet-assaulted-in-gurugram/story-2aacIn4pgNGWHv0aoIFi3M.html
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||₹155 cr development works on agenda in Chandigarh MC House meet||Development works worth ₹155 crore and purchase of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits are among the key agendas to be taken up in the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) House meeting on May 29.The meeting, for the first time, will take place through video conferencing. MC chief engineer Shailender Singh said the engineering branch had prepared three major agendas worth ₹155 crore — civic amenities for villages for ₹100 crore, road works due for 2020-21 fiscal for ₹45 crore, and ₹10 crore of development works for Manimajra. He said the road works already allotted last year had begun and will pick up pace soon. SPENDING FOR COVIDAnother agenda item is enlarging the scope of ward development funds in the wake of coronavirus pandemic. Ward 1 councillor Mahesh Inder Singh Sidhu said under ward development fund, a councillor can spend ₹80 lakh per year on his ward, but the spending is mostly on civic works. “In the meeting, we will raise the demand to broaden the scope of ward development fund by including pandemic-related expenses, with proper safeguards of course,” he said. Ward 25 councillor Jagtar Jagga said, “Instead of park swings or proper roads, people these days expect us to provide them masks and sanitisers, or to help them financially on priority. “A provision should be made in the councillor’s ward development funds on these lines,” he said. Notably, MC will also place agenda for buying 20,000 pieces of PPE kits worth ₹2 crore. “MC staff has been working aggressively in the containment zones. The tender to procure the PPE kits has already been floated, and 34 companies have applied for it. The agenda will be placed before the House for approval,” said an official, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/155-cr-development-works-on-agenda-in-chandigarh-mc-house-meet/story-wjKjdrgkKc2fJUQHnFHUlL.html
25-05-2020||Gurugram||Volunteers conduct classes over the phone for children who lack access to internet, smartphones||A group of volunteers in the city are teaching government school children through one-on-one classes on a range of subjects, including mathematics, English and Hindi over the landline. These volunteers have taken up this initiative to make sure that children who are not able to access the internet or do not have a smart phone can still make use of the e-learning curriculum published by the state education department since April onwards. Shivnath Sharma, who works as a carpenter in Chakkarpur, said that had this initiative not been there then his kids would not have even touched books. “I have two small kids and both of them are being taught via phone by the volunteers. My wife is not educated and I can’t afford either a smart phone or a laptop. If the volunteers had not contacted us, then my kids would never have been able to study during the lockdown,” said Sharma. On April 16, to prevent the loss of academic sessions during Covid-19 lockdown, the Haryana government decided to teach students from classes 1-12 through various e-learning platforms. According to the school education department of government of Haryana, around 71% government school children in the city are availing e-learning initiative. According to an estimate, at least 29% of the students in the city are still not able to access online education. As such, these volunteers with the help of education department have zeroed down on such students and have started conducting classes over the phone. Viren Jain, a high school student in the city who founded the Volunteer for Change programme, put together a core team, involving two of his friends, Krishnav Verma and Aryan Chopra, and a host of other enthusiastic volunteers, who came up with the idea to teach government school kids over the phone. Following an approval from the directorate of education, Haryana, these volunteers have started working with three government schools in Gurugram. “During the lockdown period, for around a month, nothing really happened for government school children. Also when e-learning started, there were many students who didn’t have access to e-learning. So we came up with this concept to teach children through the phone,” said Jain. Today there are 200 volunteers who are a part of this project, which started in the first week of May.The district education department (DEO) of Gurugram, Indu Boken, said that this is a wonderful initiative undertaken by the volunteer group. “They are carrying out activity-based learning. Most of it is happening in the primary and the elementary sections. It’s really great for the children,” said Boken.However, volunteers say it has never been an easy ride for them. The first challenge was to strike the right chord with the children and win their trust so that they become friendly and share their difficulties.Rishabh Ratnu, who has been teaching a primary school kid, said, “The first few calls helped me to get comfortable with the student whom I was going to teach. The first thing she said was, “We have kept roza (fast). Have you also done so?” I politely replied: “I haven’t, but for you I can keep it.” Ratnu started teaching mathematics to the student, who belong to a primary class. He even made audio programmes for her to learn the concept of the subject well. Most of the volunteers take classes on the phone thrice in a week for around 40 minutes. Indrani Sen, a volunteer who has been teaching a government school student in the city said, “The class would normally be of 40 minutes or an hour depending on how well the student has understood the subject. I even ask my student to make worksheets and inform me if he fails to grasp a concept.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/volunteers-conduct-classes-over-the-phone-for-children-who-lack-access-to-internet-smartphones/story-qOxnzrZ4wUjf8WmssXxKlM.html
25-05-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram University to hold exams for final year students in July-August||The Gurugram University (GU) administration on Monday said physical examination for final year postgraduate students will be conducted in the second week of July or the first week of August. The university administration said it will also organise a 15-day crash course for students right before the exams . The exams will be held in batches of 30-40, they said.The university has been conducting online classes for the students amid the lockdown. The administration said nearly 80% of students have attended classes online, however, around 20% of students were not able to attend them either because of poor internet or due to no access to smartphones or laptops. Dr Markanday Ahuja, vice-chancellor of the university, said, “We know that there are a few students who were not able to attend e-classes. For such students, we will be conducting classes at Rao Tula Ram Model College for 15 days right before the exams.” Students said the 15-day crash course will benefit them. “We have been told that a committee has been set up and that a core group of teachers will decide how our examinations will be conducted. When the lockdown was enforced and our college was closed, our syllabus was not completed. The university held online classes, but not everyone has internet access. So, these 15 days crash course will be beneficial for us,” said Lakshi Bhardwaj, final year student, , MA English.GU teachers they will come out with a small summary of the entire syllabus and clear all doubts of students during the crash course. Dr Suchitra Vashisth, professor in the English department, GU, said, “We have already covered the syllabus through the online classes. So, we are going to focus on the important points and clear the doubts of students. We are also going to make a short summary of the entire syllabus. I believe that online classes can never replace physical classes.”First-year and second-year students, the university officials said, might have to take their exams in December. They added the duration of the exams might be reduced and the number of questions may be cut down. “We can conduct a physical examination for the entire university in shifts. We will have to make a few adjustments: change the exam duration, reduce the number of questions, and so on. Most of the question papers are already prepared, but if the current situation worsens, then most probably we will take the exams for first and second-year students in December,” said Ahuja. The VC has also said whenever the new session starts all vacations will be cut short to accommodate the classes which have been lost to the lockdown. “In the upcoming session, which will start once the lockdown is over, we will cut short the vacations. We have two months of vacation apart from the 15-day Dussehra break and a 15-day winter vacation every year. Adjustments in this 90-day period will be made in the upcoming session ” added Ahuja. The administration also said despite all the restraints, GU will add two new courses this year — Masters in Physiotherapy and Masters in Pharmaceutical Science. “The government has also asked us to curtail expenditure as far new initiatives are concerned. These two courses won’t cost us much because we will be adding them to the existing departments and we have the infrastructure available already,” added Ahuja. However, the university doesn’t plan to add any new seats and the administration expects the admission process is to go on till October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-university-to-hold-exams-for-final-year-students-in-july-august/story-WSQ3NRQrs5p6UBNdWpmSmL.html
25-05-2020||City||Gurugram: With no support in their home towns, many migrants stay back||GurugramThousands of migrant workers have left Gurugram for their home states as their source of income dried up due to the Covid-19 lockdown. However, many migrant families have stayed back as they do not have any family support, alternative source of income or their own house in their home towns. Now, such migrants are dependent on the supply of free ration by the district administration or forced to take loans in order to buy groceries.“Hum ko to ab yehi rehena hai. Ghar par kuch nahi rakha hai (We will have to live here only. Our home town does not have any resources),” Kamala, a migrant worker from Madhya Pradesh, said while standing outside her shanty at Kanhai village in Sector 45. Unlike hundreds of migrant workers who left their shanties in the area, Kamala did not leave Gurugram for her native state after the lockdown. For the past two months, Kamala and her husband have been living on sporadic supply of free ration from the district administration and borrowing groceries from the local shops.“We stayed back because there is nothing for us in our home town. We had a house there which was destroyed during a storm and was never rebuilt. We do not even have a ration card there. In our home town, we will die due to starvation. Here, I can at least borrow some money and groceries to survive,” said Kamala, who works as domestic help at four houses in Sector 45.In a rapid survey of 100 migrant workers done by Safe in India Foundation (SII) and Agrasar (both Gurugram-based organisations working for workers) earlier this month, it was found that 76% of the workers did not receive their salary for April and 86% of those, who have stayed back, want to go back to the same company after the lockdown.At another patch of shanties in Kanhai village, Sripath Kharwar and his family are the only ones left behind. On Saturday afternoon, there was an eerie silence in the area, punctured only by the sounds of passing by vehicles. Several auto-rickshaws belonging to migrant workers who left were parked in front of the vacant shanties. “My children are alone as other families have left. But those people had something or someone to go back to. Where should I go now?” said Kharwar, a daily wager from Madhya Pradesh. On May 21, he was offered work for just two days at a construction site nearby and earned Rs 800 for each day’s labour.“Currently, we are surviving on whatever work I was offered. I do not even know if I will get any work tomorrow. I owe around Rs 20,000 to grocery shop owners and other people,” Kharwar said while alleging that the administration did not provide free ration on a regular basis. His two children, seven-year-old daughter and four-year-old son, had to drop out of a private school just before the lockdown due to lack of money.However, Vivek Kalia, estate officer-II, Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran, denied the allegation. “We are still providing food at the community centres. The migrant workers can go there and collect it. The verification of free ration forms is still underway. As soon as it gets completed, ration will be distributed among the migrant workers. Many of them have already received the supply,” said Kalia, who is also the nodal officer for food distribution in the district.At Silokhera village, South City-1, most of the migrant families from West Bengal have stayed back. Without any source of income and occasional supply of free ration, the families are facing a financial crisis and most of them are debt ridden.“No government officials provided us any special train or bus to go to West Bengal. The private agents are demanding Rs 5,000 for each passenger, which I can’t afford as I have four persons in my family. Though my other family members live in Malda, I cannot afford to return,” said Shakir-ul Ali, who stays in a rented room in Silokhera village. He has been a resident of Gurugram for more than four years and works as auto-rickshaw driver. “I now owe around Rs 15,000 to my friends and other grocery shop owners. I have to pay around Rs 4,500 every month, as my landlord has refused to let me stay here without paying rent,” Ali added. The officials said that trains and buses are being arranged for all the migrant workers who want to return to their native states. Mahesh, station house officer (SHO), Sector 40 police station, said, “Recently, migrant workers from North-east states were sent home. Police personnel in our jurisdiction are going around and asking the migrant workers to be registered for the journey. All those who are from West Bengal will also be ferried to their home as soon as buses and trains are arranged for them.” Regarding the alleged harassment by the landlords on pretext of rent, the SHO said that whenever such an incident was reported, the police have taken necessary steps against the suspects. In April, the Haryana government had issued directions stating that landlords should not demand house rent for a month from migrant workers, students and paramedics in rural areas of the state. As per the order, if any landlord is found forcing such tenants to vacate, they would be liable for strict criminal action.However, the only silver living for such migrant workers is the recent ease in lockdown restriction. As work at construction sites has resumed and cabs and auto-rickshaws have been allowed to run, such migrant workers hope they will gradually find some job and would be able to sustain their families.Nand Kishore, a migrant worker from Uttar Pradesh, stays in South City-1 with his family and younger brother. He works as auto-rickshaw driver and is also attached with a cab aggregator in the city. Kishore said that he had to borrow around Rs 25,000 to survive. However, for the past one week, things have improved for him. “Since last Sunday, I have been driving around my auto-rickshaw. The business is not that good but I earn enough money to survive. It has been more than two decades since I came to this city. Things would have been worse if I had chosen to return to my home town. Nobody even remembers me there,” Kishore added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-with-no-support-in-their-home-towns-many-migrants-stay-back/story-g9n9Ruh4aI0eJJM7X73wnI.html
25-05-2020||City||JD (U) MLA’s brother, his son held for murder of RJD leader’s kin||PATNA The police on Monday arrested a JD(U) MLA’s brother and his son in connection with the killing of an RJD leader’s three family members at Hathua in Gopalganj district the previous day. The incident took place at Rupanchak village under Hathua police station in Gopalganj district on Sunday evening.According to the police, the deceased have been identified as Mahesh Choudhary (70), his wife Sanketia Devi (65) and their son Shantanu Choudhary. Another son J P Choudhary, a former CPI (ML) leader who had recently joined RJD, was also injured in the incident and is undergoing treatment at Gorakhpur hospital.After the incident, a case was lodged against five persons, including JD (U) MLA from Kuchaikot, Amrendra Kumar Pandey alias Papu Pandey, his elder brother Satish Pandey and his son Mukesh Pandey, who is chairman of Gopalganj district board, on the basis of the statement of JP Choudhary.The father-son duo of Satish and Mukesh were arrested on Monday. In his statement, Choudhary alleged the MLA had threatened him of dire consequences four days ago and that he had immediately informed the local police, but in vain.Gopalganj SP Manoj Tiwari said the incident took place when Mahesh and others were sitting outside their home. Five assailants on two bikes reached there and opened fire. Villagers who rushed to the spot on hearing gunshots informed the police about the incident. By then, the assailants had escaped.RJD’s district president Rajesh Singh Kushwaha said JP Choudhary had recently joined the party and is preparing to contest district board election against Mukesh Pandey.Meanwhile, opposition leader Tejashwi Yadav tweeted about the involvement of JD (U) MLA in the murder. MLA Papu Pandey, however, dismissed the allegations. “The police are investigating the case, the real picture would be clear soon”, he said.Satish Pandey, a history sheeter wanted in connection with over 150 cases in Bihar and eastern UP, surrendered in 2010. A native of Gopalganj’s Tulasia village, Pandey carried a reward of Rs 10 lakh on his head.He was also wanted in connection with the killing of former Bihar minister Brij Bihari Prasad in 1998. The CBI too had announced a reward of Rs 1 lakh on his head||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jd-u-mla-s-brother-his-son-held-for-murder-of-rjd-leader-s-kin/story-43keOf4SQTznP2BZXp1jVP.html
25-05-2020||City||Kanpur woman shot at in Ambala over property dispute||A 37-year-old woman from Kanpur visiting her parents in Ambala cantonment was shot at and injured by a man on Sunday evening.Police, who have linked the incident to property dispute, said the accused, 36-year-old Abhishek Katihar, allegedly wanted to illegally occupy an apartment he had rented from the woman in Kanpur.The victim, Priti Pandey, had taken the dispute to court in 2014.Pandey had said in her FIR at the Ambala Cantonment police station that a man wearing a helmet had entered her room at 6.15pm. She identified him as Katihar after he took off his helmet and fired twice, hitting her on the chest and leg before fleeing. Her brother had taken her to the Civil Hospital from where she was referred to the Government Medical College and Hospital in Chandigarh.“We are looking for the suspect, who is still at large. We are also checking the phone recordings to verify Pandey’s claims. Katihar’s motive will be clear after his arrest,”said Ram Kumar, Ambala cantonment deputy superintendent of police.The FIR was lodged under section 307 of the IPC and Arms Act at the Ambala Cantonment police station on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kanpur-woman-shot-at-in-ambala-over-property-dispute/story-SlwJPSrVcGGFAyx8FZUp3J.html
25-05-2020||City||Stuck in Mumbai for 2 months, cancer patient from Patna flies home||PATNAFor Amitesh Kumar Nag, 40, a marketing executive with a multi-national firm, it was a happy home-coming to Patna after three months.Having gone to Mumbai for the surgery of urachal and peritoneal carcinoma on February 24, he was stuck there for three months during the lockdown, before his 10-year-old son Anmol, wife Sweta Nag and he returned to Patna by SpiceJet (SG 258) Monday morning.“I was operated at the Kokilaben Reliance Hospital at Navi Mumbai on February 27 and discharged from the hospital on March 18. Doctors advised him to come for a review after a week, and then the lockdown was announced and I was stranded in Mumbai,” said Nag.Nag made three attempts to return, but each time lockdown was extended and flights did not operate.“I booked my tickets thrice — April 7, April 15 and May 4 — but each time I could not travel because the lockdown was extended. Though I was staying with my aunt in Mumbai, I was desperate to return home and even arranged for movement pass by road when the government announced lifting of the embargo on domestic flights,” said Nag.The uncertainty over flight operations from Mumbai till late Sunday evening did not help his cause.“I was constantly watching the news last evening… I lost 14 kg after surgery and still feel weak, but I had no option as I reached the airport three-and-a-half hours before the scheduled departure,” he said.“Even today, I was not sure whether my flight will operate when I reached Terminal-2 of the Mumbai airport, as around 50 flights were cancelled from Mumbai,” said Nag, feeling much relieved to have returned home at Gaighat in Patna City.Ten flights — five of SpiceJet, four of IndiGo and one of Air India — had operated from the Patna airport till 5pm on Monday, as domestic flights operation commenced after two months since the lockdown on March 25. One flight of IndiGo was scheduled to operate at 7pm, said Patna airport director BCH Negi.“We had 1,424 incoming passengers and 724 outgoing passengers by 10 flights. GoAir will resume operations from June 1.Nag was appreciative of efforts to maintain social distancing inside terminal building of both Mumbai and Patna airports, but said there were no such restrictions outside. He also said there was no one to take the health declaration (on coronavirus symptoms) either at Patna or Mumbai airports.“We were checked by infrared thermometers both at Mumbai and Patna airports. Officials checked our status on the Aarogya Setu mobile app, but there was to ask us to fill our health declaration form,” Nag signed out.TAKING OFF11 flights operated from Patna airport on MondayFive departures each of IndiGo and SpiecJet; and one of Air IndiaThere were 1,424 incoming passengers and 724 outgoing passengers by 10 flights till 5pm on MondayDGCA has approved 17 daily scheduled flight departures from Patna airport as per calibrated flight operations due to Covid-19GoAir will commence flight operations from June 1Vistara will re-start operations from Patna from June 15||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stuck-in-mumbai-for-2-months-cancer-patient-from-patna-flies-home/story-M7jHedJEogrFDGEEVq7cuL.html
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||Rs 1.25 crore paddy goes missing from Tarn Taran mill, 3 booked||Three partners of a private rice mill have been booked after Pungrain-bought paddy worth Rs 1.25 crore went missing from their warehouse, police said on Monday. The accused are Surjit Singh of Chabhal village, Tarlok Singh of Chappa village and Amar Singh of Chhina Bidhi Chand village. The case has been registered on the complaint of Pungrain inspector Gurpreet Singh, who was deployed as an investigator at Baba Deep Singh rice mill in Chappa village where the Pungrain had stored its paddy. “On being suspicious about the stored paddy in the mill, I, along with other employees of the department, conducted an inspection on May 20. We found that more than 1.9 lakh bags (each containing 37.5 kg) of paddy were missing. The value of the missing bags has been pegged at Rs 1.25 crore,” he said. He said when he further investigated the matter, it came to the fore that the three partners had stolen the paddy during the lockdown period. “Our investigation revealed that the trio took away the paddy taking advantage of the lockdown,” he added. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) at Chabhal police station, Vipin Kumar, who is probing the case, said the FIR against the trio has been registered under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). He said the accused were at large.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rs-1-25-crore-paddy-goes-missing-from-tarn-taran-mill-3-booked/story-KZ4pKzq8WDyEDh349sTqSP.html
25-05-2020||City||4 Covid patients die in Kalyan||Four deaths and 38 new Covid cases were reported from Kalyan-Dombivli on Monday. A family of six from Titwala tested positive, after its family member, who works in Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), got infected.Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has recorded 22 Covid deaths so far. The total case count is 804.An 87-year-old elderly woman from Kalyan (West), a 69-year-oldman who worked at Vashi APMC market, a 59-year-old autorickshaw driver from Kalyan (East) and a 55-year-old man from Kalyan (East) died after testing positive for Covid. “Those who died had comorbidities like heart ailment, diabetes and hypertension,” said an officer of health department, KDMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-covid-patients-die-in-kalyan/story-6U4PBHSi2WvvFDxfGRl70M.html
25-05-2020||Gurugram||Of Haryana’s 29 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, 13 reported from Gurugram district||Haryana’s coronavirus count on Monday rose to 1,213 with 29 fresh cases, 13 of which were reported from the worst-hit Gurugram. So far, the state has reported 16 virus deaths. Faridabad and Sonipat, the two other most affected districts reported two and four virus cases, respectively, health bulletin said. Both districts, along with Gurugram, are part of the National Capital Region, from where a large number of cases have been reported recently. Jind and Kurukshetra reported three cases each while Karnal, Fatehabad, Hisar and Charkhi Dadri reported a case each. Now, the number of active cases in the state is 395 as 802 patients have recovered from the disease. The state has a recovery rate of 66.12 per cent. The fatality rate in the state hovers around 1.32 per cent while 3,944 tests are being conducted per 10 lakh population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/of-haryana-s-29-new-covid-19-cases-on-monday-13-reported-from-gurugram-district/story-e9hpLxve4K5M6UE47svUEO.html
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||10 more Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh, tally 266||Ten more people, including a three-year-old girl, tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Chandigarh, taking the number of cases in the Union territory to 266 on Monday. There are 75 active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), while 187 people have recovered so far, according to a medical bulletin. All the 10 new Covid-19 cases are residents of the Bapu Dham colony, which is the worst-affected area of the city. A total of 4,089 samples have been tested so far, the bulletin said. Four people have died due to the pandemic in the Union territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/10-more-covid-19-cases-in-chandigarh-tally-266/story-0IVJidDybz9tYCyFnkCfhM.html
25-05-2020||City||Two arrested for firing at man in Diva||Two men were arrested over a firing incident in Diva on Sunday night. One of them fired three rounds over a social media post.According to the Mumbra police, Akshay Patil, 30, called Dinesh Munde, 31, to have a drink together. They live in the same area. After Munde reached the spot, Patil came on a bike with his friend Dipesh Bhatia, 20, and started shouting at Munde. “I have called you to show my power,” said Patil and fired three rounds at Munde. Munde was unhurt and lodged a case at the police station.A police officer at Mumbra police station said, “We immediately formed a team to arrest the accused. We arrested Patil and Bhatia under Sections 307, 507, 34 of the Indian Penal Code. The accused have a criminal background.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-arrested-for-firing-at-man-in-diva/story-yAmOffJ72J8ulqBzhKTqMM.html
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||ASHA worker among 24 new Covid-19 patients in Punjab||An ASHA worker from Sangrur and a 20-year-old pregnant woman from Patiala were among 24 Covid-19 cases recorded in Punjab on Monday. Maximum eight cases were from Amritsar, Six from Jalandhar and five from Pathankot. With this, the state’s tally has gone up to 2,178 cases.Health officials in Amritsar said four family members of Rani Ka Bagh man, who tested positive for the virus on Sunday, were found infected. “A man, his wife and son of Palm Gardens colony of Majitha Road also tested positive. A resident of Vijay Nagar on Batala Road was also found infected from the disease,” said Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore.The patients have been admitted to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Amritsar, he said.Two children aged eight and 10 years were among six persons who tested positive for Covid-19 in Jalandhar on Monday, nodal officer Dr TP Singh Sandhu said. Five of the patients, including the children, were contacts of a 36-year-old positive patient of Dada Colony in the city. The sixth patient is a 56-year-old man from Guru Amardas Colony, health officials said.Five people were reported positive in Pathankot and they all are the contacts of different Covid-19 patients. A 43-year-old ASHA worker who was posted at a Malerkotla hospital tested positive in Sangrur district.A 32-year-old man from Kacha Pakka village of Bhikhiwind sub-division in Tarn Taran district was also found infected with coronavirus on Monday. The man, who is in merchant navy, had returned to Tarn Taran on May 17.In Kapurthala, a 35-year-old man of Jaid village in Begowal, who had returned from Maharashtra recently, was found positive.A 20-year-old pregnant woman from Rajpura tested positive for coronavirus in Patiala district on Monday.In Faridkot, a 22-year-old man, who had returned from Gurugram in Haryana, tested positive for Covid-19.(With inputs from Sangrur and Patiala)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/asha-worker-among-24-new-covid-19-patients-in-punjab/story-RhJsMLfuD0K2CVhG8BiVaK.html
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||Water supply disruption leaves Chandigarh residents high and dry||Water supply in Chandigarh was disrupted due to maintenance work on Monday, leaving residents at the receiving end. Many residents said they hadn’t been getting enough water for around a week now, and the authorities were failing to act on it. The pumping of raw water from Kajauli to Chandigarh was stopped due to an emergency shutdown by the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) for erecting a tower on the Kharar-Mohali power line. Municipal corporation (MC) officials said the work will stop on Tuesday but it might take till Wednesday for the supply to normalise.Even on Monday, while residents were assured of normal water supply at least in the morning, many said it started by around 7am, instead of 4am, and went out by 9am. President of the Sector 41A LIG Duplex residents’ welfare association (RWA) Vijay Chikarsal said, “The water supply was delayed and the pressure was so low that our overhead tank did not fill up.” However, the water woes for Sector 41A have been continuing for about a week now. Chikarsal said he had even written to their local area councillor, Hardeep Singh, asking that the water pressure be improved but to no avail.Jyoti Bhardwaj, a resident of Sector 47, said they had been facing water problems throughout this month. “After we kept asking the MC officials to fix it, the water supply was restored for about ten days, but now again we are facing an issue,” he said. General secretary of the Sector 33B RWA, Kuljinder Singh Sra, said the supply had been erratic this month and often could not even reach the first and second floors of their houses.Chandigarh Resident Associations Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) has also written to the MC commissioner KK Yadav about this. Chairman Hitesh Puri said that CRAWFED members will approach the commissioner regarding this on Tuesday. MC officials tasked with supplying water to the city said they hadn’t received any complaints from these areas. “There is no problem from the supply side. Maybe some local-level faults could be causing a hindrance which we will get checked,” they said, adding that the use of unauthorised pumps on the main water supply can also lead to such problems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/water-supply-disruption-leaves-chandigarh-residents-high-and-dry/story-WGkSYBxi3Ck9wRCxjXcvhJ.html
25-05-2020||Jaipur||Jaipur airport handles 500 passengers as domestic air travel resumes||Around 500 air travellers arrived or flew from Jaipur as the domestic flight operations started in the country after a hiatus of two months due to the coronavirus outbreak. However, 12 of 20 flights scheduled for the day were cancelled. The first aircraft arrived at the Jaipur airport from Bengaluru on Monday morning. The Air Asia flight with 23 passengers on board landed at 0830 hrs, Jaipur airport Director JS Balhara said. The Union government had last week announced to restart the domestic air travel, which was stopped in March to check the virus spread. “Twenty flights were scheduled for the first day today but 12 of these were cancelled and only eight flights operated. It included both arrival and departure,” said Balhara. He said the airport staff dealt with nearly 500 passengers, the maximum of whom arrived in the city. Social distancing and health protocols were followed at the airport. The passengers and airport staff were seen wearing face shields in additional to masks. The passengers who arrived in flights were directed to ensure 14-day quarantine. They were screened at the airport by medical teams and their luggage were sanitised. Flights to New Delhi, Varanasi, Bengaluru and Amritsar left the Jaipur airport on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/jaipur-airport-handles-500-passengers-as-domestic-air-travel-resumes/story-ks5Q4i4MgrqktyBVP0hATO.html
25-05-2020||City||Thane records 154 new Covid cases||A total of 154 new Covid-19 cases were recorded by Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) on Monday, taking the city’s toll to 2,172. Among the new cases are 10 children below 18 years of age. Lokmanyanagar and Savarkarnagar continue to record the highest number of cases. On Monday, the ward saw 48 more cases and the total tally reached 626.“Among the 154 positive cases today, 100 are those who are quarantined,” said Sandeep Malvi, public relations officer, TMC.Thane saw 82 patients returning home after recovery on Monday. TMC has seen 42% recovery till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-records-154-new-covid-cases/story-YD8zQyVCJfg6G9gdGS6TPO.html
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||Capt now meets Manpreet, Channi, deadlock over chief secy continues||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh met his ministerial colleagues Manpreet Singh Badal and Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday, but could not break the deadlock over their demand for removal of chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh. The meeting between Amarinder and the two senior ministers, who were the first to seek the 1984-batch IAS officer’s removal from the top bureaucratic position, took place at a lunch hosted by the chief minister at his farmhouse in Siswan village near Chandigarh. Besides finance minister Manpreet Badal and technical education minister Channi, sports and youth affairs minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi and Congress MP Manish Tewari also attended the luncheon meeting.The deadlock over the chief secretary’s removal came up for discussion expectedly, but both Manpreet Badal and Channi suggested to the chief minister to call a meeting of the state cabinet and discuss the issue with all members. The much-awaited meeting ended without any forward movement on the issue. When contacted, Manpreet Badal, whose father had passed away recently, confirmed the meeting, stating that on reaching Chandigarh after the 10-day mourning period, he got a message that the chief minister wanted to meet him to offer his condolences personally. “The chief minister invited me to his residence. I got to know that he (Amarinder) wanted to call the chief secretary also, but I requested him not to do so and the CM was gracious enough not to invite the officer,” he said. The finance minister said a range of issues, including the state finances, capital expenditure and Covid-19 management measures, were discussed. “The chief secretary issue also came up as the chief minister wanted to know how to move forward on it. But I suggested to him that since this (chief secretary’s removal) was a unanimous decision of the state cabinet, why doesn’t he call a cabinet meeting and ask what to do. This was my considered view,” he said, confirming that Channi also agreed with him.The unprecedented row between the chief secretary and senior cabinet ministers had started when they had a showdown over the proposed changes in the excise policy at a pre-cabinet meeting on May 9 amid the Covid-19 lockdown. The ministers, led by Manpreet Badal and Channi, got upset over the chief secretary’s demeanour and behaviour towards them and walked out of the meeting. At the cabinet meeting two days later, the ministers ‘unanimously’ gave an ultimatum to the chief minister to sack Karan Avtar or they would not attend meetings as long as he was there.Amarinder later divested the officer of the charge of financial commissioner, taxation, but this failed to placate the ministers. Monday’s luncheon meeting was the first between Amarinder and his two ministers since. As a part of his efforts to break the deadlock, the chief minister had last week also hosted a lunch for Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar, cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and MLAs Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, Pargat Singh and Sangat Singh Gilzian. All five had earlier vociferously sought the officer’s removal and a probe into the excise revenue losses, demands which they reiterated during the last week’s meet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/capt-now-meets-manpreet-channi-deadlock-over-chief-secy-continues/story-sJKxtjdFkv2QPbOxrB84FK.html
25-05-2020||Ranchi||38 migrant workers injured as bus overturns in Jharkhand||At least 38 migrant workers were on Monday injured when a Kolkata-bound bus overturned on a sharp bend in Ramgarh district, the police said.The mishap took place on Ormanjhi-Gola state highway near Kulhi village when the driver of the bus, carrying at least 77 passengers, lost control of the steering wheel while negotiating a sharp bend, Superintendent of Police Prabhat Kumar said.The police, with the help of villagers, rescued the migrants with 25 injured being sent to the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences in Ranchi while others were admitted to a primary health centre in Gola block, the SP said.An injured migrant worker, Azim Bittu, said that they had booked the bus from Mumbai to Kolkata for Rs 3 lakh with each migrant contributing Rs 6,000 to return to their homes in West Bengal.A fortnight ago, a trailer-truck carrying migrant workers from Jamshedpur to Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh had overturned on NH-33 under Ramgarh town police station and hurtled down into a gorge, killing three migrants and injuring five others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/38-migrant-workers-injured-as-bus-overturns-in-jharkhand/story-gybraWDR59BUQSn4YR20vK.html
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||Hockey legend cremated with state honours; will be dearly missed: Capt||The body of international hockey icon and Padma Shri Balbir Singh Senior was cremated with full state honours at the local electric crematorium on Monday. His grandson Kabir Singh lit the pyre in the presence of daughter Sushbir Kaur. A contingent of Punjab Police reversed arms and later fired in the air as a mark of respect to the triple-Olympic gold medalist.Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh expressed profound grief over the demise. In his condolence message, the CM recalled the immense contribution of Balbir Senior to the promotion of sports, especially hockey, adding that he will be dearly missed and will forever remain an inspiration.At the cremation, Punjab sports minister Rana Gurmit Sodhi laid the wreath on behalf of the CM. Sodhi said the hockey stadium at Mohali would be named after the legend.Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal tweeted, “Balbir ji remained an ambassador for hockey throughout his life. He will be sorely missed. My condolences to his family and fans worldwide.”Punjab leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said in a tweet, “Deeply saddened by the demise of Balbir Singh Sr. Ji. It is a huge loss to our nation.”MLAs Olympian Pargat Singh and Parminder Singh Dhindsa also laid wreaths to pay their respects to the departed soul. On the behalf of the Punjab governor and administrator of Union Territory VP Singh Badnore, ADC Chandigarh Sachin Rana placed the wreath. Representatives of Hockey India, Punjab Olympics Association and Hockey Punjab also laid wreaths to pay their respects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hockey-legend-cremated-with-state-honours-will-be-dearly-missed-capt/story-HEvN6SFuiRRYqS7HzlXAeO.html
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s first hotspot SBS Nagar is Covid-free again||Punjab’s first Covid-19 hotspot Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar was declared virus-free again on Monday as two remaining patients were discharged after having recovered from the disease, in what officials say was a result of strict containment measures and surveillance on those coming from outside the district. The district also became containment zone-free as restrictions were lifted from its last contained village Gunachaur. “The curbs imposed on the village were removed as per the revised guidelines of the Union health ministry for containment zones. The two remaining patients were discharged from the isolation ward of Guru Nanak Mission Charitable Hospital, Dhahan Kaleran,” deputy commissioner Vinay Bublani said. The virus outbreak took place in the district in March when it reported 18 back-to-back cases, including one death. Fourteen family members of the deceased, Baldev Singh, a Sikh preacher who returned from Germany via Italy, were also infected. But the district, which was counted among 10 Covid-19 hotspots in the country, did not report a single positive case between March 26 and April 24. It was on April 22 that SBS Nagar was declared as Covid-free. Three days later, a Jammu-returned Balachaur village youth, who returned from Jammu, tested positive. Later, at least 75 persons who returned from Takht Hazur Sahib Maharashtra’s Nanded, were found infected besides 10 cases with travel history. Civil Surgeon Dr Rajinder Bhatia said, “We have treated 101 patients from SBS Nagar and 11 from other districts who were found positive here.”“Strict enforcement of norms in containment zones was the key in curbing the spread of the virus. We conducted maximum sampling of the suspected patients or close contacts of those found infected. More than 2,100 people have been tested till date. As many as 24 villages, including 15 of Banga sub-division alone, were sealed,” Bublani said. Additional deputy commissioner Aditya Uppal said, “We have three-tier surveillance system up to the village level to monitor the residents, especially those coming from outside the district or the state. Our ASHA and ANM workers monitoring people on the ground are assisted by 13 rapid response teams which are further supervised by senior medical officers.” At least 10 such people who were tested positive were traced in their villagesby these workers, said Uppal. “A 25-year-old Balachaur youth secretly entered the district on April 21 night. He was detected the next day due to strong surveillance and his sample was collected,” he added. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Deepika Singh, Covid-19 nodal officer, said they have launched a portal ‘Stop Covid’ to gather data of those coming from outside the district or Punjab and ensure they are kept in institutional quarantine with the health department’s help. “We have set up 14 inter-district checkpoints where our medical teams conduct check-ups of travellers,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-s-first-hotspot-sbs-nagar-is-covid-free-again/story-QwyTxQC2m6CvDmedm25RnK.html
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||MLA Khaira among 30 held for violating lockdown orders in Jalandhar||Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira and his 29 supporters were on Monday arrested for violating lockdown norms by holding a candle light march to seek ‘justice’ for slain kabaddi player Arvinder Pehalwan. Police had reportedly not given permission to Khaira to carry out the protest rally. However, the legislator went ahead with his plans and reached Desh Bhagat Yaadgar hall in the evening. He alleged that this was an attempt to gag the voice being raised against police brutality.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Gurmeet Singh said an FIR under Section 188 of the IPC, Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act and Section 3(2) of the Epidemic Disease Act has been registered against the MLA and others who attended the march. ‘KAPURTHALA MLA HAS LINKS WITH LIQUOR MAFIA’Earlier in the day, Khaira, while addressing a press conference, accused Congress’ Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjeet Singh of having links with drug and liquor mafia and demanded from chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh an inquiry to expose the ‘nexus’. Showing a photograph, Khaira said, “As per the revelations made by recently arrested peddler Onkar, former panch of Boot village is a close aide of Rana Gurjeet Singh.” Khaira said Onkar has confessed that he buried 4kg heroin procured in last one year from Nekdeep Kumar of Jalandhar.However, Rana Gurjeet Singh has rubbished the allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mla-khaira-among-30-held-for-violating-lockdown-orders-in-jalandhar/story-YkIOtLeK75UroGbYdu6LlM.html
25-05-2020||City||Woman posts videos wearing boyfriend’s cop uniform, duo booked||A woman and her boyfriend, a constable with the Mira Road police, have been booked after the woman posted videos on social media wearing his police uniform and singing. The incident occurred a few days after home minister Anil Deshmukh had warned of action against people misusing social media, and ordered the police to charge cybercriminals.“The accused Alisha Shaikh and her police constable boyfriend Vijay Bramhane have been booked under section 416 (cheating by personation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), section 149 of the Maharashtra Police Act,1951 and section 6 (unauthorised use of uniform) of the Official Secrets Act, 1923,” said senior inspector Sandip Kadam of Mira Road police station.In the video, Shaikh is seen singing Bollywood songs while wearing the police uniform. “We have not arrested the two accused yet,” said Kadam.The Thane Rural superintendent of police (SP) Dr Shivaji Rathod took note of the video and ordered the Mira Road police to take immediate action against the constable and his girlfriend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-posts-videos-wearing-boyfriend-s-cop-uniform-duo-booked/story-GJhvP0tVjkSsHOuElzYpSN.html
25-05-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 positive Maharashtra minister hospitalised||A Maharashtra cabinet minister and senior Congress leader, who has tested positive for coronavirus, was on Monday admitted in a hospital here, a close aide said.He became the second cabinet minister after NCP leader Jitendra Awhad to test positive for coronavirus.The minister had contracted the infection a few days back and is undergoing treatment, a Health official had said on Sunday.The minister had attended some meetings in the last week in Mumbai before travelling back to his home district in Marathwada.Earlier on Monday, the minister left his home town for Mumbai, his aide said, adding that he was admitted in Lilavati hospital here for Covid-19 treatment.“After developing some symptoms, the minister’s samples were tested, which came positive for coronavirus. He was admitted in Lilavati hospital for further treatment,” he said.Earlier, state Housing Minister Jitendra Awhad had tested positive for coronavirus. He recovered after remaining admitted in a hospital in Mumbai for more than two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-positive-maharashtra-minister-hospitalised/story-Uc9YQli1zMeuIg0gHpWkHP.html
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandumajra demands CBI probe into former journalist’s murder||Senior Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader and former Anandpur Sahib MP Prem Singh Chandumajra on Monday demanded a CBI probe into former journalist Sanpreet Singh’s murder which he said was done as part of a broader conspiracy hatched by the sand mafia. Chandumajra, who along with a five-member delegation walked from Anandpur Sahib to SBS Nagar as part of the ‘Insaaf March’, said an attempt by the Punjab Police to close the case as that of robbery was nothing but a “childish cover-up” to protect the real culprits.Later, they submitted a memorandum to the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district deputy commissioner in this regard. “If it was a case of robbery, how come the robbers left behind their motorcycle? People and the victim’s family members want to know the real truth and motive behind the murder. Illegal sand mining is going on with impunity under political patronage of Congress leaders,” he said.The Capt Amarinder Singh-led government misled people by promising to end illegal sand mining in a time-bound manner, he added. He demanded that a member of the family of Sanpreet should be provided government job.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandumajra-demands-cbi-probe-into-former-journalist-s-murder/story-CbbPBZsq2358NbMij024OP.html
25-05-2020||Mumbai||Wadala GSB mandal cancels Ganpati celebrations due to coronavirus||This year’s Ganeshotsav celebrations may be muted because of the Covid-19 pandemic. On Monday, one of the richest Ganpati mandals in the city, Goud Saraswat Brahmin Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Samiti of Wadala,  announced its decision to postpone its Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations to February 2021 due to the outbreak of Covid-19. Other mandals said they intend to go ahead with their plans for Ganesh Chaturthi, which is on August 22.  Popularly known as GSB Wadala, the mandal’s 10-day Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations are extremely popular. Ulhas Kamat, president of the mandal, said “We have lakhs of people visiting our pandal. With the guidelines that are in place, we know it will be difficult to manage the crowds.” Social distancing norms defined by the World Health Organization (WHO) require people to maintain a distance of at least 6 feet between one another. “So, for the safety of everyone, we have decided that celebrations will be held during Maghi Ganpati,” said Kamat. Maghi Ganesh Chaturthi will begin on February 15, 2021.  The 66-year-old GSB Wadala is considered one of the richest mandals in the city and sees a footfall of 8,000 devotees per day.“We will begin preparations for Ganeshotsav in November,” said Kamat, adding that the mandal also intended to have its regular Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations in 2021. Other mandals in the city said they intend to go ahead with the festivities in August. “We haven’t heard of any other Ganpati mandal deciding on postponement or cancellation of celebrations except GSB Wadala as of now,” said Naresh Dahibhavkar, Brihanmumbai Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Samanvay Samiti (BSGSS), the umbrella body of Ganpati mandals in the city.RG Bhatt, trustee of Goud Saraswat Brahmin (GSB) Seva Mandal, King’s Circle, said, “A Ganpati with a long legacy cannot just be postponed like this because that will mean a gap of a year, which religiously cannot be permitted. We will speak to the chief minister and decide on guidelines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/wadala-gsb-mandal-cancels-ganpati-celebrations-due-to-coronavirus/story-i69lXuktL1efepNqywy8OK.html
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||One held for Batala Akali worker’s murder, 4 accused absconding||Police on Monday arrested one of the accused in the case involving the murder of a Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) worker in Batala sub-division of Gurdaspur district. Manjot Singh was shot dead at Kullian Said Mubarak village on Sunday while two of his associates, including an NRI, were assaulted. Batala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Opinderjit Singh Ghuman said on the statement of the victim’s cousin Kuldeep Singh, a case was registered under Sections 302, 307, 148, 149 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act against Gurdeep Singh, a lawyer, his father Joginder Singh, mother Kulwant Kaur and two other women.“On Monday morning, a police team arrested Joginder, who was trying to board a bus at Qadian. We are questioning him about the whereabouts of the rest of the accused,” the SSP added. Akali leader Ravi Karan Singh Kahlon said, “Gurdeep Singh, who is joint secretary of the Batala Bar association, is a close aide of Congress leader. The police are not arresting Gurdeep under pressure of the ruling party leader. If needed, the SAD will gherao the SSP’s office to get justice for Manjot. We will move the court if the police did not arrest the accused within a few days.”SUKHBIR CONDEMNS PARTY  WORKER’S KILLINGShiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday condemned the murder of party worker Manjot Singh, saying political killings continued unabated in Punjab even during the lockdown.In a press release, the SAD chief said earlier too Dhilwan sarpanch Dalbir Singh was killed in a shootout in Batala subdivision of Gurdaspur district. “Like in the past, the Batala police failed to move quickly this time too. All those linked with the murder and the assault should be arrested immediately,” he demanded.He also asked chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to rein in Congress workers who were taking the law in their hands to settle political scores. He said in case the government did not dispense justice to the bereaved family, the Akali Dal will fight for it. He also assured free legal aid to the family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/one-held-for-batala-akali-worker-s-murder-4-accused-absconding/story-m76XBgZ5g8zBceqbSX9MKP.html
25-05-2020||Noida||14 more test Covid-19 positive in Greater Noida’s Gautam Buddh Nagar, total cases rise to 359||Fourteen more people tested positive for coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar on Monday, taking the total number of infected to 359, officials said.Five patients were discharged from hospitals, while the number of active cases rose to 119, they said.District Surveillance Officer Sunil Dohare said 10,222 samples have been collected in Gautam Buddh Nagar so far for Covid-19 testing.“Since yesterday, 199 samples were sent to government laboratories and 144 to private laboratories for testing of Covid-19,” he said.“On Monday, 14 people have been found positive for Covid-19 and total positive cases till date stand at 359. Five patients were discharged on Monday and a total 235 patients have recovered so far. There are 119 active cases now,” the officer said in a statement.Gautam Buddh Nagar in western UP has so far recorded five deaths – all of them male aged above 60 years, according to officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/14-more-test-covid-19-positive-in-greater-noida-s-gautam-buddh-nagar-total-cases-rise-to-359/story-oel6CBbtaFEO6jhNcV2LuI.html
25-05-2020||City||Industrial bodies donate ventilator to Ludhiana hospital||The Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) and the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) on Monday donated a ventilator to Guru Teg Bahadur Sahib Charitable Hospital, Model Town.Chairman of CII’s Punjab chapter, Rahul Ahuja, and CICU president Upkar Singh Ahuja said they had established a coronavirus relief fund and collected donations worth Rs 1.5 crore with the help of the members of both the associations. ‘ASSOCIATIONS SERVING FOOD TO NEEDY’“A large part of this fund has been donated to police department, district administration, Red Cross Society and various hospitals, including Christian Medical College and Hospital, Ludhiana, for various relief and rehabilitation measures. Apart from this, members have been directly contributing to the cause by distributing food packets and running community kitchens serving hundreds on daily basis,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/industrial-bodies-donate-ventilator-to-ludhiana-hospital/story-mdp0I0XFhkTVZXdcrINlmO.html
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||AAP asks Punjab Cong pres to apologise for remarks or face state-wide protest||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday asked Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar to apologise for his “irresponsible remarks” against the party within one week or face a state-wide protest.The ultimatum was given by leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema after Jakhar alleged that an advertisement issued by the AAP government in Delhi exposed the “separatist” face of the party. The Delhi government’s advertisement for recruitment of civil defence volunteers had stoked a controversy as it incorrectly referred to the people of Sikkim as a separate category from Indian citizens. Though the AAP said it was an error by an official who had been suspended, Jakhar tweeted: “Claim of being a mistake is belied as AAP patronised terrorists and separatists during Punjab assembly election ’17 also (sic)”.At a press conference in Chandigarh, Cheema accused the state Congress chief of making the “unfortunate” remarks to hide his own failures and that of the Congress government in Punjab at a time when the entire country is combating the coronavirus. “Jakhar is merely trying to regain the lost political ground after he lost elections in different parts of the state. If there was any truth in his allegations, what was the Congress government doing for three-and-a-half years? Why it did not take any action?” he asked.“What about numerous faux pas by the deputy commissioners and a minister that left many people embarrassed and hurt the Sikh sentiments in Punjab. Jakhar used to hold two press conferences every week to speak out against mafias during the previous Akali regime, but is maintaining total silence now as all those activities were still going on under the Congress government,” Cheema claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/aap-asks-punjab-cong-pres-to-apologise-for-remarks-or-face-state-wide-protest/story-KfFYdY5dlrZsga94CN39EI.html
25-05-2020||Mumbai||Over 70% urban professionals willing to working from home post lockdown: Survey||A survey conducted with 1,082 urban professionals across 10 Indian cities has found that 80% believe that working from home (WFH) will have a positive impact on air quality while 70% said they were willing to continue WFH even after the lockdown ends.The clampdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic over two months now resulted in several professionals forced to WFH to ensure the spread of Sars-Cov-2 virus could be contained.Conducted by Delhi-based communications initiative, Climate Trends, along with market research company YouGov, the survey was carried out online between April 26 and May 7 across - Delhi NCR, Mumbai, Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Jaipur, Ahmedabad, Pune and Surat. Each of the 10 cities accounted for 10% each of the sample size.Results from Mumbai showed nearly 95% respondents said they were directly impacted by air pollution, and 69% were willing to work from home as it may lead to cleaner air and less traffic. Over 71% wanted to WFH to avoid crowded places and shared mobility. Additionally, 47% respondents said they were willing to buy affordable electric vehicles provided there was the availability of charging infrastructure. While 65% preferred to walk shorter distances, 52% Mumbai respondents would still consider public transport options more often. “Mumbai had the highest number of respondents that said they were personally impacted by air pollution as one of the primary reasons for opting for WFH even after lockdown. If people are willing to avoid crowded places, governments, policymakers, and employers may now need to look at a structured WFH practice in a phased manner with equal or more productivity than the office space,” said Aarti Khosla, director, Climate Trends.“Not just employees but the trend showed nine of 10 employers think that their company has saved on operational costs since employees began WFH provided availability of proper work infrastructure and increased productivity by cutting down on commute time,” added Khosla.Pan-India results showed 90% respondents thought air pollution impacts them personally with nearly one in two respondents indicating that they suffer from pollution-related ailments.Sudhir Srivastava, chairman, Maharashtra Pollution Control Board said, “Organisations today have adapted to the current abnormal situation through WFH, and some many continue with this concept once the crisis is over. As a result, the commute will be less and may have a positive effect on air quality. However, public transport may see a setback in the coming days. It is an evolving situation, and changes are being carefully monitored.”The survey results drew a mixed response from city-based urban planners and experts citing a small sample size and practical feasibility of WFH for those citizens whose work needed them to step out irrespective of their choices. “Everyone cannot work from home as there are certain professions who have to go to the field. There is a need for graded evaluation for which kinds of professionals can transition to WFH completely, which is happening in international cities,” said Pankaj Joshi, director, Urban Design Research Institute. “However, we must realise that we are talking of an extremely small percentage of society. Only 8% of India has broadband access, and we need to be sensitive to how this pandemic will shape other sectors, especially agricultural and working class that cannot fathom such options.” WFH is a large global experiment currently underway, said, researchers. “If we can nail it right, the benefits will be across several levels of our society from improved productivity, to improved family interactions and cleaner liveable cities,” said Navroz Dubash, professor, Centre for Policy Research.Transport planner Vivek Pai said, “Complete WFH is possible for not more than 25% professionals. The survey results might be an immediate reaction to the current fear of the pandemic, which is driving such recommendations. We will have to see how the situation changes over the next six months.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/over-70-urban-professionals-willing-to-working-from-home-post-lockdown-survey/story-R5LF3bi5xFM3gcw5FD9CIM.html
25-05-2020||Mumbai||Car driver crashes into power transmission tower in Navi Mumbai; no one injured||A speeding car crashed into a power transmission tower on Palm Beach Road on Monday. The 21-year-old driver lost control of the vehicle and has been booked for rash driving. The impact was such that the power transmission tower tilted. No one was injured in the accident.Kashinath Mane, police sub-inspector from Vashi police station, said, “Tejas Bhalerao, a Vashi resident, was driving the SUV and going to Kopar Khairane to buy essentials. He lost control and hit the transmission tower.”“We have registered a case of rash driving against the driver,” said Mane.After the accident, Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) transferred the load immediately to avert any major disruption in electricity.Mamta Pandey, public relations officer, MSEDCL, said, “The restoration work has started. The power load was immediately transferred and so there was no electricity disruption.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/car-driver-crashes-into-power-transmission-tower-in-navi-mumbai-no-one-injured/story-wXsDVIygVdF3CHGQzNivwO.html
25-05-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: 285 shramik special trains operated by Ferozepur division||Since the imposition of coronavirus lockdown, as many as 3.56 lakh migrants have been sent to their home states through 285 shramik special trains operated by Ferozepur division. These included 15 trains that left for their journeys on Monday. Of these 15 trains, nine were operated from Ludhiana railway station, five from Jalandhar City railway station and one from Amritsar.LUDHIANA OPERATED MAXIMUM TRAINS WITHIN FEROZEPUR DIVISIONSo far, a total of 157 trains have left from Ludhiana railway station, the maximum within Ferozepur division. Of these, the 150th shramik train from Ludhiana ferried 1,600 migrants to Chhapra, Bihar, on Monday. Following this, 76 trains started from Jalandhar City, 28 from Amritsar, 11 from Ferozepur, 10 from Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra and one each from Gurdaspur and Hoshiarpur.187 TRAINS FERRIED MIGRANTS TO UP Divisional railway manager (DRM) Rajesh Agarwal said that nowadays, each train is carrying a maximum of 1,600 migrants that was earlier restricted to 1,200 passengers. “A total of 187 trains have ferried the migrants to Uttar Pradesh (UP), 69 trains have left for different districts in Bihar, 11 for Madhya Pradesh (MP), seven for Jharkhand, six for Chhattisgarh and one each for Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Kerala and Uttarakhand,” he said.The DRM also said that so far, 17 shramik trains have arrived at Udhampur railway station with stranded people from UP, MP, Delhi, Goa, Telangana, West Bengal, Karnataka, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-285-shramik-special-trains-operated-by-ferozepur-division/story-yrzTIjMNCwfevYcBPy7QyK.html
25-05-2020||Mumbai||Minister admitted to SoBo hospital after testing positive for Covid-19||A Congress leader and cabinet minister tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday and was admitted to a hospital in south Mumbai late on Monday. The leader travelled by road to Mumbai from Nanded on Monday. “He had tested negative for the virus in his two tests done in Mumbai recently. The third test was conducted on Sunday as precautionary measures at Nanded and it came positive. He has no symptoms and is in good health otherwise. He reached Mumbai late on Monday night and was directly admitted to a south Mumbai hospital,” a Congress leader close to him said. Many senior leaders across the party lines including chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, NCP chief Sharad Pawar, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, Congress leaders Ahmed Patel, Ghulam Nabi Azad called up the leader to inquire about his health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ashok-chavan-admitted-to-sobo-hospital-after-testing-positive-for-covid-19/story-6EKE3sqHjuaQZi5Nm4jdEM.html
25-05-2020||City||Thane civil hospital to get 150 more beds for Covid ward||Thane civil hospital will get 150 additional beds for Covid-19 patients, taking the total number of beds in the facility to 450. The hospital had demanded for additional beds, owing to the constant rise in the number of Covid-19 patients in Thane. Until Sunday, Thane city recorded 2,018 cases of coronavirus.“The demand for 150 beds was made through prefabricated portable clinic for the civil hospital, owing to the surge in the patient footfall. The first six beds arrived at the hospital on Monday,” said Dr Kailash Pawar, civil surgeon at the hospital, adding that the remaining beds will be made available in batches.According to an official from the hospital, there are 212 coronavirus patients and 35 medical staffers at the Covid-19 ward.“We are trying to arrange for more than 500 beds and also deploy more staff at the Covid-19 ward,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-civil-hospital-to-get-150-more-beds-for-covid-ward/story-WaAzussKm2TT8gK8uimv5K.html
25-05-2020||City||Water supply of 10 unsafe buildings in Panvel disconnected||The Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has disconnected water supply of 10 dilapidated buildings and asked the residents to vacate the building, failing which electricity would also be cut.The step is part of pre-monsoon preparations. PCMC chief Sudhakar Deshmukh said, “We have disconnected water connection to the 10 dilapidated buildings. It is dangerous for people to live in such buildings. Evacuation notice has been served to residents, and if they don’t vacate tough measures would be taken.”“The helpline number to complain about rain-related incidents such as tree fall and waterlogging will be active from June 1,” said Deshmukh.Residents can dial the tollfree number 1800227701 to complain about monsoon-related problems. Ravi Srivastava, a city-based activist, said, “Before asking residents to vacate, it is important to find whether everyone has an alternative accommodation. Many are tenant-owner issues. Even after getting a notice, they don’t vacate the building.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/water-supply-of-10-unsafe-buildings-in-panvel-disconnected/story-Q7yvwEUaGxAFQ4pDMTPQhM.html
25-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai autorickshaw union ask CM to resume rickshaw services from June 1||The Mumbai Autorickshaw Taximens’ Union has asked chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to allow autorickshaws to start their operation in Maharashtra from June 1. The union has stated that the autorickshaw drivers are suffering due to no work and have no money to survive.The union has also raised their earlier demand to the state government to provide ₹10,000 to every autorickshaw driver in the state during the period of lockdown. The union has also asked for waiving off vehicle loans for the autorickshaw drivers and providing masks and sanitisers to the drivers.“The auto business is severely impacted in the lockdown period. The business has seen a major dip. We have asked for our basic needs and to provide ₹10,000 to every autorickshaw driver every month during the lockdown period. Vehicle loans should also be waved off as the business will continue to be impacted severely post the lockdown,” said Shashank Rao, leader, Mumbai Autorickshaw Taximens’ union.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-autorickshaw-union-ask-cm-to-resume-rickshaw-services-from-june-1/story-DOLeFiTZr2ZrmLjgJkWKhP.html
25-05-2020||Delhi||Action being taken against fair price shops that stay shut, despite orders: Delhi government tells high court||The Delhi government has informed the Delhi High Court that it has issued warnings and imposed penalties on the license holders of fair price shops (FPS) after complaints were received against them for keeping their shops shut..In a compliance report filed by the government, that additional standing counsel, Anuj Aggarwal, told the court that there have been some instances of sealing or suspension of shops due to alleged irregularities or in case of detection of Covid-19 positive cases resulting in the closure of shops, leading to the staggered supply of ration.Aggarwal added that in cases where action has been taken against the erring FPS licensee, appropriate linking and delinking of cards is made to a nearby alternate location, so that the beneficiaries are not inconvenienced and they are informed about the change.The report comes while hearing a plea by an NGO Rozi Roti Abhiyan Adhikar seeking implementation of the provisions of the National Food Security Act regarding the establishment of the Grievance Redressal Committee to address concerns of the public. On the last date of hearing, the court had expressed disappointment at the Delhi government’s inaction in providing ration to the poor, despite orders . It had asked the government to file a compliance report in this regard.The government, in the report, said that the ration shops are open throughout the week and instructions have been issued accordingly. It said on April 29, it was decided to open the Fair Price Shops for the distribution cycle of May in a staggered manner to ensure the convenience of beneficiaries and smooth distribution of ration while adhering to social distancing norms.“….as per the norms in place, with the closure of one distribution cycle under Public Distribution System (PDS), the other distribution cycle can be taken up by the FPS only after ‘opening of sales’, which requires inspection of availability of stocks in the FPS and maintenance of necessary registers .“Therefore, the process of ‘opening of sales’ by circle food supply inspectors and food supply officers was undertaken in a staggered manner. Accordingly, in view of the staggered opening of sales, only a limited number of FPS were allowed to be open for distribution,” the report said.The government also said that with respect to the complaints of the petitioner about the number of FPS shops closed, action as per rules is under process against erring shops . It said that directions have been issued to all the concerned authorities for compliance of opening of shops during working hours. It also said that 1,74,000 e-coupons have been issued to beneficiaries, who do not have an aadhaar card. It also said that 29.76 lakh non-PSD beneficiaries have been provided relief benefits from the Designated Distribution Centres.The matter would be now heard on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/action-being-taken-against-fair-price-shops-that-stay-shut-despite-orders-delhi-government-tells-high-court/story-gP83vozr43vShn21fPtfkJ.html
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||Mercury touches 42°C in Chandigarh, no relief till Thursday||Maximum temperature on Monday touched 42°C for the first time this year in Chandigarh, amid the India Meteorological Department (IMD) putting out a red alert for heat wave on Tuesday and Wednesday. Even as maximum temperature is likely to reach 43°C in the next two days, relief is around the corner with a system of western disturbances likely to cause rain on Thursday.“A red alert for heatwave has been put out in the city on Tuesday and Wednesday. Maximum temperature can rise up to 43°C. However, due to cloudy weather on Thursday, maximum temperature is likely to come down in 30s. Up to 20mm of rain and gusty winds can be expected too,” said the weatherman.Red is the highest level of alert issued by the IMD, asking people in the affected region to take precautions. People have been advised to stay indoors during the afternoon and keep their heads covered to avoid heatstroke. Maximum temperature went up from 41.7°C on Sunday to 42°C on Monday, four notches above normal . Minimum temperature went down from 25.7°C to 24.6°C. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 39°C and 43°C while minimum temperature will remain between 26°C and 27°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mercury-touches-42-c-in-chandigarh-no-relief-till-thursday/story-Hs9Cq8HtWSL9kVZk7jCH4L.html
25-05-2020||City||With 29 fresh cases, Haryana Covid-19 count rises to 1,213||Twenty-nine more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Haryana on Monday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 1,213.Of the fresh infections, 13 were reported from Gurugram, four from Sonepat, three cases each came from Kurukshetra and Jind, two from Faridabad, while one case each was reported from Karnal, Fatehabad, Hisar and Charkhi Dadri.Senior doctors said the new cases in Gurugram and Fariabad were contacts of already infected persons having a travel history to Delhi.4 TEST POSITIVE IN SONEPATA construction contractor is among four persons who have tested positive for the virus in Sonepat. Deputy commissioner Shyam Lal Punia said a construction contractor along with two men and a 38-year old woman are the new cases in the district. The contacts of an infected man, who died of cancer in Jind, had tested positive on Monday. Health officials said the woman, a resident of Danoda village in Jind ,was found infected with the virus.THREE CASES IN KURUKSHETRA, ONE IN KARNALThree people, including a 45-year-old woman tested positive in Kurukshetra, taking the number of active patients to 15 in the district. Dr Sukhbir Singh, chief medical officer said the infected woman had returned from Jahangiri in Delhi on May 23.In Karnal, a 32-year-old man with travel history to Delhi tested positive on Monday, taking the number of active patients to 16 in the district. Deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said the man belongs to Nirmal Vihar area which has been sealed and samples of people in his contact were sent for testing.THREE PEOPLE INFECTED IN HISAR, ONE IN FATEHABAD A 24-year-old married woman, who recently returned from Mumbai, tested positive in Fatehabad and three fresh cases were reported from Hisar. Chief medical officer Dr Yogesh Sharma said a man and his sister who returned from Mumbai recently are among the new cases in Uklana. A 30-year-old man from Hisar who returned from Gurugram two days ago has also tested positive. Official bulletin, however, mentioned only one case in Hisar.NO CASE IN NUH, AMBALA, Y’NGRAccording to the health department bulletin, Nuh, Ambala and Yamunanagar districts have no cases now while Panchkula and Sirsa have one active case each. All cases in Nuh, Ambala and Yamunanagar were discharged a few days ago.37 MORE PATIENTS DISCHARGED With 37 more patients getting discharged, the total number of cured patients in the state swelled to 802 and the recovery rate is now 66.12%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-29-fresh-cases-haryana-covid-19-count-rises-to-1-213/story-sKqgzmNRw5Zk9jZGdclHiO.html
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||Reversing bus mows down asleep nomad in Chandigarh||A reversing private bus ran over an unidentified man asleep at the ground near the Sector 46 market on Monday afternoonThe bus driver fled the spot on foot, leaving the vehicle behind. But, was arrested later with the help of documents found in the bus. He was identified as Mahinder Singh, a resident Burail village, who works for the Punjab government.Singh was booked under Sections 304-A (causing death due to negligence), 279 (rash driving) and 337 (negligent driving) of the Indian Penal Code by the Sector 34 police station officials, and later released on bail.“The identity of the deceased has yet to be ascertained, but he appears to be a nomad,” said a police official, privy to the matter. The body was sent to the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, where it will be kept in the mortuary for 72 hours before the autopsy is conducted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/reversing-bus-mows-down-asleep-nomad-in-chandigarh/story-GKScT7wZCOwvx2QxWEbbWI.html
25-05-2020||City||Brigadier looking to buy refurbished iPhone online duped of ₹9,799||Fraudsters duped a 51-year-old Brigadier of Rs 9,799 in lieu of selling a refurbished Apple iPhone online, police said on Monday. Complainant Brigadier Neeraj Kumar Soni, who lives in the Chandimandir cantonment, told the police that he bought the phone online on May 11 from a firm named 2GUD. The transaction of Rs 9,799 from his credit card was carried out in favour of Flipkart Internet Private Limited.The phone’s delivery was promised by May 16 initially, and later deferred to May 21. However, he didn’t receive the order by then.Brigadier Soni said he later received a call from a man identifying himself as the e-commerce firm’s representative. “He said they were unable to deliver the phone. So, I asked for a refund and he asked me to provide a Google Pay or Phone Pay account information to get the money back,” the complainant told the police.Brigadier Soni gave the caller his daughter’s Google Pay account details and sent back a message to the caller on a different mobile number, as asked by the latter. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Rajbir Singh, the investigating officer, said the caller allegedly told the complainant to download a form from the link that was sent. However, he declined it immediately.Later, the complainant was asked to open the phone’s calculator and type the last four digits of his bank account. Finding this unusual and suspicious, he did not comply and reported the matter to his bank. There, the complainant learnt that the amount from his credit card was claimed on May 12, and was credited in a book store’s bank account. Based on the complaint, a case under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/brigadier-looking-to-buy-refurbished-iphone-online-duped-of-9-799/story-WqYnWRQrd3U9Tnceiq470M.html
25-05-2020||City||Truck runs over 52-yr-old migrant returning from work in Ludhiana||A speeding truck ran over a 52-year-old migrant labourer near Dhandhari overbridge in Ludhiana’s Sahnewal town on Sunday evening. The victim has been identified as Kiamuddin of Dahmesh Market of Dhandhari. His nephew, Sahabuddin, said that Kiamuddin, who a labourer at a factory, was walking home after work when a speeding truck hit him from behind. The truck driver fled the scene after the incident. Police have lodged a case under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code against the unidentified truck driver, on the statement of the nephew.They are scanning the closed-circuit television cameras in the area to trace the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/truck-runs-over-52-yr-old-migrant-returning-from-work-in-ludhiana/story-7yT22JDoSv0ULJmCeIYrAJ.html
25-05-2020||City||PMC fails to distribute ration kits, oppn slams BJP||Pune: The Pune municipal corporation (PMC) in a bid to limit the movement of people in containment zones decided to distribute ration kits to 70,000 families, however, the civic body has fallen short.The national lockdown is set to end on May 30, but the PMC has not completed the distribution, yet. An official said on anonymity that till date the civic body has distributed around 40,000 kits only.The opposition parties are blaming the ruling BJP, accusing the party of politics in ration kits distribution. The opposition claims preference has been given to the elected members from the Bhartiya Janata Party.According to the opposition party members, more kits are available in the areas where BJP members are representing but the main containment zones are getting fewer kits.Nationalist Congress party Parvati constituency president Nitin Kadam said, “I appealed to municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad and mayor Murlidhar Mohol to conduct an inquiry in kits distribution. For example the kits are distributed in Taljai slum on Saturday and Sunday but the 1 litre oil bag is missing from the kit. If PMC is paying money for the kits, the administration should ensure that the kit has all the elements which are promised.”NCP, Congress and Shiv Sena’s elected members criticised the kits distribution delay and said on anonymity that as the scheme is good, they did not want to bring politics in it but unfortunately the ruling BJP is doing politics over this issue.According to Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol, the main reason for the Covid-19 spread is that people from slum areas venture out to purchase essential items and another source is community toilets.“To control citizens’ movement in containment zones, PMC decided to give free ration kits. The door-to-door distribution of the kits will begin from Saturday. Each ration kit contains groceries worth Rs 800. These kits will have the PMC logo on it,” said Mohol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-fails-to-distribute-ration-kits-oppn-slams-bjp/story-8wzxf9ONLp32H0C5O5YaZI.html
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali district admn launches online career counselling programme||Mohali’s District Bureau of Employment and Enterprise (DBEE) on Monday launched an online career counselling programme, which will be conducted through video conferencing.Additional deputy commissioner Aashika Jain spoke to students of various colleges in the district and said the DBEE’s aim is to prepare the youth for jobs in diverse sectors.She added that students must register on www.pgrkam.com to get connected with the DBEE, which will guide them in selecting the appropriate career for them in government and private sectors. The ADC said they will also get assistance in starting their own ventures in varied sectors including fisheries, piggery, beautician and data entry operators. It also helps them in acquiring loans from banks on easy terms, Jain said. The DBEE also prepares the youth for job interviews and helps them in getting placed, she added. Information on around 1,500 to 2,000 vacancies in varied sectors is being gathered and will be shared with students in forthcoming sessions, the ADC said. The DBEE also aims to enhance the skill of the youth by providing them opportunities to get into skill development courses from the Punjab Skill Development Mission.The ADC exhorted the youth to feel free to send in their queries at dbeemohalihelp@gmail.com and follow the facebook page of the bureau at District Bureau of Employment and Enterprise SasNagar-Mohali. They can also contact the bureau on the helpline 7814259210 from Monday to Saturday between 10 am to 5 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohali-district-admn-launches-online-career-counselling-programme/story-NpoXxoEieFqZGJmG1eEY2H.html
25-05-2020||City||Balloon seller’s murder: Main accused sent to three-day remand||The prime suspect arrested for the murder of a 32-year-old balloon seller on Saturday night was sent to three-day remand by a local court on Monday.Pardeep had allegedly attacked the victim, Haryanvi, with a sickle during a drunken brawl. While he was arrested the same night, two other accused are on the run.The police will be questioning him about the whereabouts of his absconding accomplices - Pawan and Ranjit.Investigators said Pardeep had revealed that Haryanvi used to deride him whenever they went to the old bus stand in Phase 8 to take bath. Co-accused Pawan is wanted in two cases of theft registered at the Phase 1 and Mataur police stations.After being attacked in the arm with the sickle, a bleeding Haryanvi was rushed to the civil hospital, Phase 6, by the police. But, he was declared brought dead.The victim as well as the three accused hail from Uttar Pradesh, and were all living in the temporary hutments near the Phase 7 traffic lights.The trio have been booked under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/balloon-seller-s-murder-main-accused-sent-to-three-day-remand/story-C2jH42ESN14aiBVzjCy5yK.html
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab health minister donates ₹4 lakh for constructing dharamshala in Mohali’s Kurri village||Punjab health and family minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Monday handed over a cheque of ₹4 lakh to the panchayat of Kurri village, Mohali, on the occasion of Eid for constructing a dharamshala for the Muslim community .Sidhu said Eid cements the bonds of universal brotherhood, peace, amity and mutual co-existence and symbolises the spirit of communal harmony. He exhorted the people to rise above the narrow confines of caste, creed, race and religion and observe the festival with utmost zeal.The minister added that the Punjab government, led by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, is fully committed to the overall development of all sections of the society. He also divulged that financial assistance for a burial ground was given earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-health-minister-donates-4-lakh-for-constructing-dharamshala-in-mohali-s-kurri-village/story-J3cnKQ1z35DNVFc0tSriVL.html
25-05-2020||Lucknow||Four more deaths, 273 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in Uttar Pradesh||Four more people have died of Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh, taking their number to 165 as 273 fresh coronavirus cases surfaced in the state, a senior UP government official said on Monday.With this, the number of confirmed cases rises to 6,541, they said, adding that the count of active cases stands at 2,606.“So far, 165 Covid-19 patients have died in the state, while as many as 273 fresh Covid-19 cases have been reported from the state,” Principal Secretary, Medical and Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said here. So far, 3,581 patients have recovered from the disease in the state and have been discharged, he said.Prasad also said that pool testing of 936 samples was done. “As many as 736 were in five-sample pools, while 200 were in 10-sample pools. In the five-sample pool, 110 pools tested positive which is 14.94 per cent, while in the 10-sample pool, 51 pools tested positive, which is 25 per cent,” he said.“With migrants returning to the state, the positive outcome in the pool testing has increased. Overall positive outcome has also gone up. Hence, we are insisting that the migrant labourers who have come should undertake 21-day home quarantine. This will help in curbing the spread of the infection in the society,” Prasad said.The principal secretary also informed that the weblink provided to passengers following the resumption of domestic air travel was being put to use.“No need to panic about COVID-19. There should be no ill-feelings against a patient. One should cover the face with mask, ‘gamcha’ and ‘dupatta’. One should adhere to social distancing,” he said. Prasad also said air travellers arriving in the state would have to stay under home-quarantine for 14 days. “On the sixth day from their arrival, one can get themselves tested, and if they are negative for COVID-19, their home-quarantine will be ended,” he added. PTI NAV IJT||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/four-more-deaths-273-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-uttar-pradesh/story-sSiqJbQx7CACN6iflCbuzL.html
25-05-2020||City||Himachal records two more Covid-19 deaths, toll rises to 5||Two women Covid-19 patients both suffering from chronic kidney disease died on Monday, taking the total number of persons who have succumbed to the virus in Himachal Pradesh to five.A 72-year-old woman died at Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC), Shimla, on Sunday night. She was suffering from multi-organ ailments and was referred to the hospital from Hamirpur on May 22 where she had tested positive for Covid-19. Her 75-year-old husband is also a Covid-19 patient and is undergoing treatment.The couple believed to have contracted the virus in Jalandhar, during her visit to a private hospital where she was undergoing treatment for a kidney ailment.Meanwhile, another woman who was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College (LBSGMC), Nerchowk died on Monday afternoon.She had suffered renal failure and was undergoing dialysis, chief medical officer Jeevanand Chauhan said.She tested positive for the infection on May 20 and the source of infection remains unknown.The state recorded its first Covid-19 death on March 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-records-two-more-covid-19-deaths-toll-rises-to-5/story-Zz0c3Jj1qR8qEQgMZWzEEP.html
25-05-2020||City||Gurukul teacher booked for sodomising 15-year-old student in Hisar||Police on Monday booked a Gurukul teacher for allegedly sodomising a Class 10 student in Hisar district last year. No arrests have been made so far, police said.The accused teacher has been identified as Ramesh Kumar. The boy informed his father about the incident a few days ago. In his complaint, the 15-year-old boy alleged that the incident took place in May, 2019, when the Gurukul owner was admitted at a hospital. The victim said the teacher had threatened to fail him in the examination if he informed anyone about it. A case under Section 377 (unnatural offences), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences act (POCSO) and Section 75 and 82 of Juvenile Justice Act has been registered against the accused teacher and a staff member, who did not inform the police after knowing about the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurukul-teacher-booked-for-sodomising-15-year-old-student-in-hisar/story-YcSd341dXTXZVnKOMSCfhL.html
25-05-2020||Mumbai||Subdued Eid celebration in Mumbai||Eid celebrations remained low key in Mumbai on Monday and Muslims offered prayers at their homes instead of venturing out in view of the coronavirus-enforced lockdown.Heavy police security was deployed outside mosques and some key roads in the city.Prominent Muslim clerics in the city also appealed to people of the community to offer namaz by staying at home.Markets and mosques remained closed in Mumbai, where streets in normal times used to be bustling with activity during the festival time.A few members of the Muslim community were seen out on roads, but they avoided hugging each other and wore masks in view of the social distancing guidelines to stay protected against the coronavirus disease.Majority of the community members stayed indoors and refrained from wearing new clothes this time on the festival.In the wake of the lockdown, people did not invite relatives and friends for feasts and kept the celebrations simple. Women prepared the festive dishes at home in most of the Muslim families to mark the occasion.Caterers did not take food orders as most of their labourers have already left for their native places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/subdued-eid-celebration-in-mumbai/story-6DzW8JTOnA4fRvAwLkacpK.html
25-05-2020||City||J&K L-G advisor’s wife, son test positive for Covid-19||The wife and son of an advisor to the J&K lieutenant governor have tested positive for Covid-19, officials said on Monday.The L-G advisor has gone into self-quarantine at Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana Superspeciality hospital in Kakryal area of Reasi district, where his son and wife are being kept in an isolation ward, they added.“The advisor’s wife and son, who had returned from Delhi a couple of days ago, were tested positive on Sunday night and were hospitalised. The advisor has self-quarantined at the hospital,” they said.Meanwhile, an income tax lawyer from Trikuta Nagar, who died at a private hospital in Sidhra due kidney failure and related complications, also tested positive for coronavirus disease on Monday.“His sample was taken post-mortem and turned out positive,” said a hospital official. The deceased was admitted to the hospital on May 22.It was the third Covid-19 death from Jammu region. A woman from Tikri village in Udhampur and a retired special bureau officer from Digiana in Jammu district were the other two who had succumbed to the dreadful infection.Earlier, a 72-year-old man had tested positive for coronavirus disease shortly after his death in Jammu on May 13. On April 9, a 61-year-old woman from Udhampur district had died of the infection.In Kashmir, a 65-year-old woman from Kulgam district also died due to Covid-19 on Monday, taking the death toll to 23 in J&K so far.Meanwhile, principal secretary Rohit Kansal said relaxations in lockdown 4.0 should not be taken for granted and that people should not squander the gains made in the past two months.“While we have increased our testing capacity to 350% in the past one month, as of today we are conducting 8,100 tests per day. We should not squander the gains made during the lockdown since March 25,” he said.“Cumulatively, we have conducted 1.32 lakh tests so far across Jammu and Kashmir and our testing rate is now 10,000 per million,” he said adding that around 90,000 persons who returned to J&K via trains, buses and flights have also been tested.“I urge the people to fight to the finish. Therefore, it is expected that they take all the precautions and adhere to the guidelines. All our hard work should not go in vain at the last stage,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-l-g-advisor-s-wife-son-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-L46iCt8sIy7mAcVIj0RRhO.html
25-05-2020||City||23-year-old factory worker hangs self in Ludhiana||A 23-year-old factory worker ended his life by hanging himself from a ceiling fan at his house in Jagdeep Nagar of Sekhewal on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday. According to family members, he was under depression for the past few days.Daresi station house officer (SHO), inspector Vijay Kumar said the youth’s sister had gone to call him on Monday morning. But even after repeated knocks, he did not open the door. Following this, she peeped into his room through a window and saw his lifeless body hanging from the fan.She immediately raised an alarm following which family members broke open the door and informed the police, the SHO said, adding that no suicide note was recovered from the body. Police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, on the statement of the deceased’s uncle Balwinder Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/23-year-old-factory-worker-hangs-self-in-ludhiana/story-ZvA5waM3r3YkjBXMzhX3HN.html
25-05-2020||City||NCP chief Sharad Pawar meets Maharashtra governor||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Monday met with Maharashtra Governor B S Koshyari at Raj Bhavan here.The NCP claimed that the meeting took place on the invitation of the governor and no political issues came up for discussion.Speaking to reporters after leaving Raj Bhavan, senior NCP leader Praful Patel said it was a courtesy meeting at the request of Koshyari.When asked whether Pawar and the governor discussed any political issues, Patel said, “It was a routine meeting between them. It was not about any particular political issue or topic”.However, the timing of the meeting is significant as it took place against the backdrop of strained relations between the Shiv Sena, which heads the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government of which the NCP is one of the key constituents, and the Raj Bhavan.Pawar was one of the key leaders from Maharashtra who had openly complained about Koshyari’s “intervention” in the functioning of the state administration.Recently, the governor had taken a strong objection to a letter written by state Higher and Technical Education Minister Uday Samant to the University Grants Commission, recommending cancellation of final year university exams.In a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Koshyari had said that “not conducting the final year examinations by universities amounts to breach of UGC guidelines”. He also asked Thackeray to issue suitable instructions to Samant for his “unwarranted intervention”.Earlier in the day, an editorial published in the Sena mouthpiece ‘Saamana’ slammed the governor for being in favour of conducting final year university exams in the state, and said health of students cannot be put at risk amid the COVID- 19 crisis.The Sena had also expressed its displeasure with Raj Bhavan over “frequent meetings” between Opposition BJP and the governor. Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis had recently complained to the governor about the “failure” of the Thackeray government in handling the Covid crisis.Last week, Thackeray, who heads the Sena, had skipped a meeting called by Koshyari to take stock of the situation.Earlier, the Sena had criticised Koshyari when he did not act on the Maharashtra Cabinet’s recommendation in April to nominate Uddhav Thackeray as member of the state Legislative Council from the governor’s quota.Thackeray was eventually elected unopposed to the Upper House earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-meets-maharashtra-governor/story-yjDXtt1QZhfRLlAmqlNMZO.html
25-05-2020||City||Thane Civil Hospital to get 150 more beds for Covid ward||Thane Civil Hospital will get 150 additional beds for Covid-19 patients, taking the total number of beds in the facility to 450. The hospital previously demanded for additional beds, owing to the constant rise in the number of Covid-19 patients in Thane. Until Sunday, Thane city recorded 2,018 cases of coronavirus.“The demand for 150 beds was made through prefabricated portable clinic for the Civil Hospital owing to the surge in the patient footfall. The first six beds arrived at the hospital on Monday, the inauguration for which was carried out by Thane’s guardian minister Eknath Shinde,” said Dr Kailash Pawar, civil surgeon at the hospital, adding that the remaining beds will be made available in batches.According to an official from the hospital, there are 212 coronavirus patients and 35 medical staffers at the Covid-19 ward.“We are trying to arrange for more than 500 beds and also deploy more staff at the Covid-19 ward,” informed the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-civil-hospital-to-get-150-more-beds-for-covid-ward/story-HqUWawmE0vi1MjwXGWT1iI.html
25-05-2020||City||Haryana facilitates return of Manipur students stranded in Delhi||The Haryana government on Monday went out of the way to facilitate the return of 80 Manipur residents, including students, stranded in the national capital since the first phase of lockdown in March.Additional director general of police (ADGP), CID, Anil Kumar Rao said Manipur residents stranded in Delhi had reached out to the state government for help. “We deployed three state transport buses to ferry them to Gurugram from where a train hired by the state government took them to Jiribam in Manipur on Monday. The train was hired by the state government for sending stranded north east migrants from Gurugram back home,’’ said the Intelligence chief, who is handling the transportation of migrants.A Delhi-based communication professional from north-east Aheibam Prahlad thanked the state government for its prompt response in a tweet. Prahlad expressed gratitude for not only providing buses to transport Manipuri students from Delhi to Gurugram railway station but also accommodating them in the train for Jiribam.The ADGP said the state government has facilitated transportation of about 2.90 lakh migrants to their home states till Monday. “ About 5,000 buses and 77 trains were pressed into action to send the stranded migrants back home. The state government has spent about Rs 10 crore on transportation,’’ Rao said.The state government expects to complete the evacuation of migrants by May 27. “Anyone still stranded can contact nodal officers in the districts, the office of the deputy commissioner and superintendent of police. We are also monitoring Twitter to find people who are looking for help,’’ the ADGP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-facilitates-return-of-manipur-students-stranded-in-delhi/story-ogegVWw7rjsnLzhxpWufRL.html
25-05-2020||Mumbai||Biker arrested for crashing into constable on duty at BKC||A 26-year-old man was arrested for crashing his bike into a 30-year-old woman police constable at Bandra Kurla complex on Sunday evening. The constable Swati Todkar was on duty at a checkpoint near MTNL junction at BKC when she signalled and asked the motorist Mubin Ismail Shaikh to stop.Anand Muley, senior police inspector from BKC police station said, “Instead of slowing down and stopping, Mubin accelerated his vehicle and rammed into the constable, before escaping from the check post.”The constable suffered injuries to her head, left hand and knee, added Muley. Mubin was caught after another constable Satish Mahale chased the motorcyclist and nabbed him near Bharatnagar. Mubin was arrested and booked under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Epidemic Diseases Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/biker-arrested-for-crashing-into-constable-on-duty-at-bkc/story-HMpMsY0YWuAX1S71GZndyJ.html
25-05-2020||Mumbai||PMC Bank fraud: PMLA court denies interim bail to Rakesh and Sarang Wadhawan||The special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Monday refused to grant interim bail to HDIL promoters Rakesh and Sarang Wadhawan in connection with the ₹6,117.93-crore money laundering case being probed by Enforcement Directorate (ED) in the Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank fraud. The duo cited health issues and claimed that there are no proper facilities in the jail amid the Covid-19 outbreak. ED’s counsel, Hiten Venegaokar, objecting their plea argued that the Arthur Road jail is in the red zone, and thus no one is permitted to either enter or exit the prison premises. It was further submitted that it is not advisable to allow a prisoner to go out in society and put others at the risk of contamination. Venegaokar also argued that the high-power committee of the Bombay high court has barred interim bail for those accused in cases under PMLA.The special court, after hearing both the sides, rejected the plea of Wadhawans made for interim bail.The central agency initiated probe against the father and son after it came to light that the two obtained loans unlawfully from PMC Bank with the help of other bank officials. ED probed the money laundering allegations against the Wadhawans and listed 19 subsidiary companies of HDIL Group as accused, which allegedly were used by the Wadhawans to launder money. The duo had obtained the loans under the names of these companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pmc-bank-fraud-pmla-court-denies-interim-bail-to-rakesh-and-sarang-wadhawan/story-bG9yku0XhWryoxEEC1kJFK.html
25-05-2020||City||Jammu minor murder: Alleging police inaction, kin block highway||Family members and relatives of a minor boy, who was found murdered in old Satwari area of the city, blocked Jammu-Pathankot national highway on Satwari chowk seeking stringent punishment for the culprits.Body of 14-year-old Ritik Kumar, who had gone missing on May 20, was recovered from a vacant plot near the deceased’s residence in Chatha area on the city outskirts on Sunday evening. Jammu police had arrested a suspect, also a minor, in the connection.After postmortem was conducted, the victim’s family carried the body to Satwari chowk on the national highway and staged a protest. The blockade of the chowk led to huge traffic jam, leaving vehicles stranded on all directions.The family alleged police inaction led to the murder of the minor. “Had the police acted in time, Ritik’s life could have been saved,” said his father.Another family member alleged that Ritik murder was a handiwork of the entire accused (suspect) family. “The murder was executed by entire family as Ritik’s face was disfigured with acid to conceal his identity. The murder does not seem to be a solo job. Now they (accused family) have cleverly shifted the entire blame on minor, knowing that being a minor he will soon go scot free,” he added.Meanwhile, Jammu senior superintendent of police (SSP) Shridhar Patil confirmed that the police had detained a suspect in the connection. On being asked about suspect’s involvement in Ritik’s murder, SSP said, “It will be premature to arrive at any conclusion now as the investigation is still underway.”Sources said the boy (suspect) with whom Ritik last talked on May 20, had been betting over online games. They said Ritik had lost bet and owed money to him.Meanwhile, traffic was resorted after over four hours, when senior police officers assured the victim’s family of fair probe. Thereafter, the family preformed the last rites of the deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jammu-minor-murder-alleging-police-inaction-kin-block-highway/story-XgBrF9rgtNk1TYpKIuDT5I.html
25-05-2020||City||Two militants killed in encounter with security forces in Kulgam||Two militants were killed in an encounter with security forces in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district, police said on Monday.The identity of the militants is being ascertained, police said.The operation was launched on the intervening night of May 24/25 after an input was received by the police about the presence of militants in the Khurd-Hanjipora area of Manzgam. Mobile internet was snapped in some parts of south Kashmir after the encounter.“Acting on the input, a joint search operation was launched by Kulgam Police, 34 RR and CRPF 18 Bn. As search parties drew closer to the suspected house, hiding terrorists fired indiscriminately upon them. The fire was effectively retaliated in which two terrorists were neutralised,” said a J&K police spokesperson. He said the identity and affiliation of the killed terrorists is being ascertained.“Incriminating material including arms and ammunition has been recovered from the site of the encounter,” the police spokesperson said adding that the operation saw no collateral damage.Police have asked people not to venture inside the encounter zone. “The bomb disposal squads of Kulgam Police have cleared the area of all stray explosives, but people are requested to co-operate with the police till the area is completely sanitised and cleared,” the spokesperson said.Last week, two terrorists, including Hizbul Mujahedeen divisional commander Junaid Sehrai, were killed in an encounter at Nawakadal in Srinagar, while over 12 houses were damaged in the encounter. Three civilians who got injured in the house collapse also died in the hospital due to burn injuries.Since the lockdown, 37 militants and two militant associates have been killed while 24 security forces personnel, including two in ceasefire violations, also died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-militants-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-kulgam/story-7cajmMxTECKkqq0lzhExaN.html
25-05-2020||City||105 trains ferry 1.35 lakh migrants from Ambala division to UP, Bihar in 3 weeks||The Ambala division of the Northern Railway has run more than 100 Shramik Special trains from May 6 to May 24, ferrying over 1.35 lakh passengers. Out of these, 95% of the trains were sent to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, railway officials said.As per details, out of total 105, highest 24 trains originated from Punjab’s Patiala, followed by 21 from Chandigarh, 20 from Saharanpur in UP, 19 from Mohali, 8 from Ambala cantonment, 5 from Sirhind, 3 each from Bathinda and Yamunanagar, and 2 from Kalka (sponsored by Himachal Pradesh).Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) Gurinder Mohan Singh said, “The division is committed to send every stranded citizen to their hometown and to ensure their safety, these trains are being escorted by Railway Protection Force (RPF). On Monday too, the division will be operating 11 more such trains taking the tally to 116.”Senior divisional commercial manager Hari Mohan said that 85% of the total cost is borne by the railways and rest by respective state governments. Three special trains departed for the first time from Yamunanagar district to various districts in Bihar with more than 4,800 passengers, DC Mukul Kumar had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/105-trains-ferry-1-35-lakh-migrants-from-ambala-division-to-up-bihar-in-3-weeks/story-Sz3RPIfMtAtE5V3KqGORtM.html
25-05-2020||City||14 KDMT buses to ferry asymptomatic Covid patients||Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) is preparing 14 of its civic buses to carry asymptomatic patients to quarantine centre.The midi-buses will have a glass partition near the driver’s seat. A volunteer will guide the patients. The driver and the volunteer will be in PPE kit. “The 20 ambulances of the civic body will be only for patients with symptoms, elderly patients and children. Asymptomatic patients will be sent in the bus. This will help decrease the load on ambulances and also ensure the patients are sent to the quarantine centre on Kalyan-Bhiwandi road without delay,” said Dipesh Mhatre, former standing committee chairman of KDMC, who approached the civic body chief Vijay Suryavanshi with the idea.The civic body is using 28 private ambulances, of which, 12 are for cardiac patients and five for Covid patients. “The buses will be sanitised throughout the day after patients are dropped at the centre,” said a KDMC officer.Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Transport (KDMT) general manager Maruti Khodke said, “One civic bus is already transporting Covid patients twice a day. We have 28 midi buses, out of which, eight are for staffers of primary health care centres.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/14-kdmt-buses-to-ferry-asymptomatic-covid-patients/story-XGgLAAjJuo1fGO8tdH2ndM.html
25-05-2020||City||Haryana govt to set up organic certification agency at agri varsity||The state government will be setting up the Haryana Organic Certification Agency (HOCA) at Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University(CCSHAU) in Hisar to help organic farmers get their produce certified in the state, vice-chancellor KP Singh said on Monday.While addressing a press conference, the V-C said the state government and the university are making efforts to promote organic farming in Haryana. “However, due to absence of an organic certification in the state, growers were forced to get their farms and produce certified from agencies outside,” he said.“The process is lengthy and costly. It is for the first time that the Haryana government has approved the proposal by CCSHAU to setup a government-aided organic certification agency. With HOCA, there will be no hurdle in marketing and export of organic produce from Haryana as the agency will also be equipped with a sophisticated testing laboratory for pesticide residue and nutritional testing,” Singh said.The university has got the society registration under the Haryana Registration and Regulation of Societies Act, 2012 and the V-C will be the ex-officio president and controlling officer of Deendayal Upadhyay Centre of Excellence for Organic Farming.Singh explained that there are two systems of organic certification. One is self-certification system (Participatory Guarantee Scheme) but it is not effective for export. The second is third party certification which is mostly adopted for export but involves higher cost. “The HOCA will help organic growers of Haryana obtain the third party certification in a cost effective and transparent manner that will enable them to sell their produce with certification mark in domestic as well as international market,” the V-C said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-govt-to-set-up-organic-certification-agency-at-agri-varsity/story-kOKONZ2YRYDHki0COX6zIL.html
25-05-2020||Pune||As air services resume, four flights land at Pune airport||On the first day of resumption of flight services, the Pune international airport in Maharashtra has handled arrival and departure of seven flights by Monday afternoon, a senior aviation official said.He said the airport is scheduled to operate the total of 17 flights throughout the day.Domestic passenger flight operations, which remained suspended for two months owing to the nationwide lockdown necessitated by the coronavirus pandemic, resumed on Monday.“Till Monday afternoon, four flights carrying 354 passengers landed at the Pune airport while three flights with 622 passengers have taken off,” said an Pune Airport Authority official.He said details like the places of the origin of the flights and the destination cities will be made available later.With services of app-based cab aggregators not available as Pune falls in the COVID red zone, the passengers have been instructed to travel to and from the airport either in their own vehicles or use dial a rickshaw facility, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/as-air-services-resume-four-flights-land-at-pune-airport/story-oa3mrtBUtRE5vKhDb1vScO.html
25-05-2020||City||Kaithal farmers protest curbs on paddy cultivation, Congress extends support||Agitated over the government’s decision of imposing restriction on the cultivation of paddy, hundreds of paddy growers from Kaithal district on Monday staged a dharna in Kaithal and demanded the government to withdraw its decision.Protesting farmers accused the BJP-JJP government of imposing a ban on paddy cultivation without assessing the ground reality. They demanded the immediate withdrawal of the order under which farmers have to diversify at least 50% of their last-year cultivated paddy area by growing alternate crops in eight blocks of the state including Ratia, Siwan, Pipli, Shahbad, Babain, Ismailabad, Guhla and Sirsa.Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala also extended his support to the protesting farmers.He demanded the withdrawal of curbs imposed on paddy cultivation by Haryana’s BJP-JJP government in about 4.5 lakh acres agricultural land of the state.Surjewala accused the government of debarring paddy cultivation in 19 blocks of the state and said that the government cannot deprive the farmers of their right to grow crops and get the benefit of Minimum Support Price.He said that the Congress will continue its support to the farmers in their fight against the government’s diktats to punish the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kaithal-farmers-protest-curbs-on-paddy-cultivation-congress-extends-support/story-gESsd5lXdwk8CzBAeTj3VJ.html
25-05-2020||Mumbai||TISS releases exam results of students whose fees were pending||The Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Mumbai, on Monday released the results of the students whose final semester marks it had withheld over pending fees. While results were declared online late last week, many students- beneficiaries of the Government of India-Post-Matric Scholarship (GoI-PMS) - had complained that their results had been withheld. They said that the administration had not released their results as they hadn’t been able to pay their final year fees owing to a delay in disbursement of the scholarship funds from their respective state governments.A total of 1,252 students graduated from the institute’s over 70 programmes this year. Of these, 86 students are recipients of the GoI-PMS. Institute authorities claimed that owing to the lockdown and technical glitches, the results of students with dues could not be displayed. “We have cleared the process in the results portal. All those students who have paid the first-year fellowship to the institute have been cleared and can now access their results. Those who haven’t deposited the first-year fees have been informed to do so at the earliest to access their results,” said MP Balamurugan, deputy registrar of the institute.While the institute doesn’t charge a tuition fee from students coming from the Scheduled Caste (SC), Scheduled Tribe (ST), Other Backward Classes (OBC) categories as well as economically weaker sections, it levies a dining hall and hostel charge. The total for four semesters for GoI-PMS comes to around Rs65,000, which they pay after receiving their scholarship from their respective state governments. However, amid a nationwide lockdown after the Covid-19 outbreak, many GoI-PMS students have not received their scholarship amounts from the state government and many have taken to fund raising attempts to be able to pay their fees. “We are aware that many of our students have to complete joining formalities and a large number of them are placed in the healthcare sector. The results of 31 out of 39 GoI-PMS students from Maharashtra have been cleared. From outside Maharashtra, there are 47 GoI-PMS students and we have released the results of seven of them. The rest will be able to see their results once they clear their first-year fees,” said Balamurugan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tiss-releases-exam-results-of-students-whose-fees-were-pending/story-BvIYLi3WVpTLkAIiHWh8gI.html
25-05-2020||Mumbai||HC rejects Dahisar residents’ plea for termination of one of her twin foetus||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday rejected a petition filed by a 33-year-old Dahisar resident who is pregnant with twins and had sought permission for termination of pregnancy of one of the foetuses affected by Down Syndrome.Acting on her petition, the court had on May 15 referred her to a medical board of Sir JJ Hospital and Grant Medical College and ordered the board to submit its report by May 22.On Friday, a division bench of justice RD Dhanuka and justice Abhay Ahuja rejected her petition after perusing the medical board’s report. Detailed reasons for dismissal of the petition are still awaited.The woman’s petition stated that she underwent a maternal screening test on April 29 and then a second test on May 7 in view of the complications in one her foetuses. The second test results showed that the foetus having complications suffered from Down Syndrome.On May 11, she took second opinion from a gyanaecologist and obstetrician who told her the affected foetus suffered from an untreatable chromosomal anomaly with substantial risk of mental or physical disabilities. Following this, she decided to undergo termination of her pregnancy of the affected foetus and continue normal pregnancy with the other foetus.She had sought permission from the court to terminate pregnancy of the foetus claiming the gynaecologist also informed her that such the procedure of terminating pregnancy of one her foetuses would not pose a higher risk to her as compared to delivery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-rejects-dahisar-residents-plea-for-termination-of-one-of-her-twin-foetus/story-ekXJIykmqEWQwI33HLXkqN.html
25-05-2020||Mumbai||Biker injured after bus knocks him down on WEH||A 27-year-old biker suffered serious injuries after a mini bus knocked him down on the western express highway (WEH), near Andheri (East), on Sunday evening. The motorcyclist, Suresh Natarajan is being treated for his injuries at VN Desai Hospital in Santacruz.He was on his way to Jogeshwari to deliver money to a relative who in urgent need when the accident happened, said Suresh’s brother Surendra. He claimed that the bus was speeding and the driver changed the lane suddenly, knocking his brother down.The incident happened a few metres away from police check post. The policemen helped Suresh with first aid before shifting him to the hospital. The bus driver Sureshkumar Yadav, 35, was arrested at the spot and has been nooked under sections 279 and 338 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/biker-injured-after-bus-knocks-him-down-on-weh/story-7WlqKEGx4jio0SAkhlpAQN.html
25-05-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown extended till June 30 in Himachal’s Hamirpur, Solan||Hamirpur and Solan districts in Himachal Pradesh will continue with the coronavirus lockdown for a month after the current nationwide phase ends on May 31. The district magistrates of Hamirpur and Solan issued orders Monday extending the curfew in their areas up to June 30. The two orders did not specifically mention the lockdown itself, but its extension is implied. The state-wide curfew in Himachal Pradesh is meant to enforce the lockdown against coronavirus. As in the rest of the state, the two districts allow several hours of relaxation in the curfew and the lockdown every day. Essential services remain open during the curfew hours as well. This will continue, officials said. Hamirpur has reported the highest 63 virus cases while 21 people have tested positive for the infection in Solan till now. So far, the state has reported 214 cases, including five deaths. According to officials, Hamirpur has witnessed a spurt in cases after people in large numbers returned to the state from parts of the country recently. The district now has 57 of 142 active cases in the state. Over 10,000 people have returned to Hamirpur from various red zones in the country in the past 30 days, District Magistrate Harikesh Meena said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-extended-till-june-30-in-himachal-s-hamirpur-solan/story-bIY15VTVG4N3ZRsdlxlKIJ.html
25-05-2020||City||Government offices in Himachal to work at 50% strength from Tuesday||The government offices in Himachal Pradesh will function with 50% staff strength from Tuesday onwards. The order to this effect was issued by additional chief secretary (health) RD Dhiman on Monday.Earlier, the government offices were operating with 33% staff strength.As per the amended order, all Class-I and Class-II officers will attend the office on all working days, and the pooling of official vehicles shall be done to the extent possible.In all the office attendance and timings of Class-III and Class-IV, daily wage and outsourced employees shall be staggered by the controlling officer and roaster will be prepared in such a way that 50% of employees attend the office every day.Persons with disabilities, who require the assistance of others to reach the workplace shall be exempted from attending the office by the controlling officer.The employees, who do not attend the office on a particular day, have been directed not to leave the station and shall remain available on the telephone and will attend the office if called for the exigency work.There shall be no wage, salary-cut for the days of non-reporting in the office, reads the order.The timing of arrival and departure of the employees will also be staggered to prevent overcrowding by forming two groups. The first group will arrive at 10 am and leave at 5 pm. The second group will arrive at 10:30 am and leave at 5:30 pm.“Provision of thermal scanning, hand wash, and sanitiser will be made at all entry and exit points,” reads the order.Frequent sanitisation of the entire workplace, common facilities, and points that come into human contact shall be done, and the wearing of mask at all the time will be mandatory. In-charge of the workplace shall ensure proper social distancing.“Employees who develop flu-like symptoms, fever, or respiratory problems may be advised to proceed on paid leave and get the prescribed treatment/home quarantine. Pregnant women and employees with underlying medical conditions may be advised to take extra precaution,” states the order.Those having Covid-19 symptoms shall be sent to the treatment facility or institutional quarantine, marked for the purpose, in consultation with the local administration. The use of the Aarogya Setu app is mandatory for all employees.Employees have also been advised not to believe and spread rumours.The order shall not be applicable to the field staff of the departments engaged in the maintenance of essential supplies/services; the offices located in the containment zones and educational institutions.All the educational institutions shall continue to remain closed till further orders, the order says. The orders shall also be effective until further order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/government-offices-in-himachal-to-work-at-50-strength-from-tuesday/story-R3oe0XaGGqeN13kk5YFfwK.html
25-05-2020||City||Man held while trying to break into bank in Uran||A 36-year-old man was arrested for allegedly attempting to break into a bank on May 19. The accused, an unemployed man from Uran, used a hacksaw blade to cut the lock of the main gate at Canara Bank at Jasai between the intervening night of May 19 and May 20, said the police.The patrolling policemen saw him attempting to open the lock and caught him. The accused had been sleeping near the bank, said officers.“The bank manager came to know of the attempted break-in in the morning. We had already arrested the suspect and recovered the blade from him,” said an officer from Uran police station.He has been booked and placed under arrest under sections of Indian Penal Code for house trespass.The police said they suspect he deliberately stayed near the bank before attempting to break in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-held-while-trying-to-break-into-bank-in-uran/story-kn50hoTL3giyTB2kfeuf6J.html
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||Hike of Rs 53 proposed as paddy MSP is peanuts, say farmers||The proposal of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP) to increase minimum support prices (MSP) of kharif crops is “peanuts,” farmers in Punjab have said. “We reject the commission’s recommendations to offer peanuts by increasing paddy MSP by Rs 53 this year. They have taken such decisions while sitting in air-conditioned rooms without any reality check on the ground,” said Sukhdev Singh Kokari, general secretary of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan). According to the recommendations approved by the Union cabinet, the MSP of paddy (common) is Rs 1,868, an increase of Rs 53 from Rs 1,815 last year and paddy (Grade-A) is Rs 1,888 (Rs 1,835 in 2019). For maize crop, the amount proposed is Rs 1,850, an increase of Rs 90 from Rs 1,760 last year.The prices of cotton (medium staple) are Rs 5,515, up Rs 260 from Rs 5,255 last year, and that of long staple Rs 5,825, up Rs 275 from Rs 5,550 last year.Numerous challengesThe farmers face numerous challenges when it comes to sowing of kharif crops from June 10 due to shortage of labour in the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic situation.“The farmers are going through tough times due to unavailability of labour and the meagre increase in paddy prices will rub salt into their wounds,” Kokari said.Jagmohan Singh, state general secretary of BKU (Dakaunda), said the input cost on paddy sowing was going to increase manifold after the labour exodus from the state.Prices of fertilisers and pesticides were increasing too due to the lockdown. Black marketing of Punjab agricultural University recommended seed varieties PR 128 and PR 129 was also pushing up input costs this time, he added. ‘Adopt MS Swaminathan’s recommendation’“Instead of the giving meagre hike in MSP, the Centre should have adopted the formula forwarded by the chairman, National Commission on Farmers, Dr MS Swaminathan, under which farmers are assured of MSP which accounts for the basic costs incurred on production plus 50% profit on that,” Singh said.The farmer leaders said labour costs were expected to double this year as migrant workers charged Rs 2,500 to Rs 3,000 per acre for sowing paddy while local labour in Punjab demanded Rs 5,000 to Rs 5,500 per acre.According to the state agriculture department, around 26.3 lakh hectares was expected to be covered under paddy cultivation, 5 lakh hectares under cotton and 2.7 lakh hectares under maize.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hike-of-rs-53-proposed-as-paddy-msp-is-peanuts-say-farmers/story-wwUg98Agsq8QVmodKIbEjK.html
25-05-2020||Noida||Fire at Noida Authority office, several files gutted||Several official files and records were gutted in a fire that broke out at the Noida Authority office here on Monday morning, officials said.The fire broke out in the Industries Department of the office in Sector 6 and was reported around 8.45 am, they added.“Fire-tenders were rushed to the spot and the blaze was brought under control around 12.30 pm. Nobody was injured,” a local police official said.The Noida Authority has ordered a probe into the incident.Noida Authority CEO Ritu Maheshwari has constituted a five-member team, headed by the Additional CEO, to ascertain the cause of the fire.“The team will also ascertain the loss caused by the fire and an estimate of the files that have been destroyed. The team will submit its report within a week and whoever is responsible for the fire can be held accountable,” she said in an order. PTI KIS RC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/fire-at-noida-authority-office-several-files-gutted/story-0CQYUGXsfSsDCEoKhFIXyM.html
25-05-2020||Delhi||Ghaziabad seals border with Delhi again, cites rising coronavirus cases||The Ghaziabad district administration has again decided to seal its borders with Delhi and directions to this effect were issued by the district magistrate on Monday afternoon. “There has been an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in Ghaziabad and a major share has come from people commuting between Ghaziabad and Delhi. So we have decided to put restrictions on the movement at Ghaziabad-Delhi borders on recommendation of the chief medical officer,” district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said in a statement.The officials said that conditions mentioned in an earlier order of April 26 will now be in force till further orders. The officials said that only people having valid passes and certain category of officials and other persons will be allowed movement to Delhi.The vehicles engaged in essential supplies, says the order, will be allowed to pass through the Ghaziabad border, while doctors, para medical members, police and bank employees will be allowed passage without any passes.The officers of deputy secretary rank or above will be allowed to cross over on showing their identification cards. “There are thousands of class III and class IV employees who work with the Central and Delhi governments and 33% of such employees are required to attend offices. So the employees falling under the limit of 33% should be issued separate passes which may be applicable on a daily or weekly basis. Such employees will not be allowed to move to Delhi just on the basis of their identification cards,” the order said.Media persons will be exempted from any passes and will be allowed commuting on the basis of their identification cards.The advocates attending the works in different courts in Delhi will also be allowed to commute on the basis of their identification cards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ghaziabad-seals-border-with-delhi-again-cites-rising-coronavirus-cases/story-Q4gMlxeqBtMEs672gdLchK.html
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||Police beat up on-call cardiologist in Srinagar, say doctor manhandled policeman||A senior cardiologist at Shri Maharaja Hari Singh Hospital has alleged that he was harassed and beaten up by the police while he was en route to the hospital on May 23. The police have launched an enquiry while maintaining that the doctor had manhandled the policeman on duty. The complainant, Dr Syed Maqbool, was crossing Hawal Chowk when he was stopped by a policeman and asked to take a different route. The doctor showed him his I-card and the hospital’s duty roster to show that he was the cardiologist on call that day but to no avail.“On May 23, I was the cardiologist on call for SMHS and all other associated hospitals. I requested the policeman to allow me to pass as I was already getting late due to a traffic jam. However, the cop started abusing me. I got off my vehicle and asked him to confer with someone at his office, which enraged the policeman further. He started hitting me with his baton. In the meantime,the station house officer (SHO) arrived and dragged me to the policestation,’’ said Dr Maqbool.POLICEMAN LIKENED DOCTORS TO THIEVES: DOCTOR“On reaching the police station, the policeman took away my phone and the identity card. I repeatedly requested him to allow me to call my head of department and medical college principal as I was to deal with all emergency cases but the officer said all doctors were thieves who thrive by selling duplicate medicines and taking commission.”“It was only after I apologised that I was allowed to call my colleague and ask him to depute someone else. I was let go after my brother submitted a bond. My vehicle is still in police custody.’’Dr Maqbool alleged that the SHO warned him not to tell anybody about me being taken into police custody.‘OFFICER THREATENED TO STRIP ME NAKED’“The officer was extremely rude and threatened to strip me naked. I was harassed while performing my duty amid the Covid-19 pandemic.’’Upon being released, instead of going to home, Dr Maqbool walked six kilometers to the hospital and performed two angioplasties.“I am a senior interventional cardiologist who has represented state and country at multiple and national and international forums with multiple awards to my credit and if this is how I am treated by the police, I shudder to think what will become of my juniors. All of this while the world is dealing with a deadly disease that is killing thousands of people everyday,’’ he said.On being questioned about the manhandling charges, the cardiologist categorically refuted the charges: “The police ae lying. There are CCTV cameras on Hawal chowk and the footage will reveal the truth. Should I be found guilty, I am ready to face punishment. However, the arrogant police officer must be brought to book,’’ he said.DOCTORS DEMORALISED, THREATEN STRIKE Srinagar Medical College principal Dr Samia Rashid said she had taken up the issue with all top officials of the administration who had promised that action will be taken against the offending officer.“The doctor was on call and still he was stopped and jailed. This issue has demoralised our doctors, especially those on the frontlines. We are willing to go on strike against the police’s treatment of doctors.’’DOCTOR COMING FROM WRONG SIDE : POLICESrinagar SSP Haseeb Mughal said the doctor had reportedly tried to manhandle the policeman.“We had filed a complaint against the doctor after he reportedly manhandled a policeman who stopped him as he was coming from the wrong side. When the policeman stopped the doctor, he pushed the policemen saying he was in a hurry. Now, he has filed a complaint so I have asked the Hazratbal SP to investigate the matter. We have already taken legal cognisance of his misconduct,’’ the SSP said.‘WON’T ALLOW ANYONE TO MISBEHAVE WITH JAWANS’ “If one of our jawans are found at fault, disciplinary action will be taken but at the same time we will not allow anybody to manhandle and misbehave with police personnel who are on duty 24/7.’’The issue has created an uproar on the social media with many doctors saying frontline workers in Kashmir were being mistreated by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/police-beat-up-on-call-cardiologist-in-srinagar-say-doctor-manhandled-policeman/story-EesLV0oAugdRoa2SxYMQ2M.html
25-05-2020||Pune||Pune city hospitals face staff crunch as nurses leave for hometowns||Even as the Pune civic administration has taken control of 80 per cent of beds in private hospitals, there is a severe staff crunch at many of these hospitals as nurses from other states have returned home during the lockdown, and are now unwilling to come back.During a meeting on Saturday with top authorities, including Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram, representatives from many private hospitals flagged the issue.According to these hospitals, a few hundred nurses, especially from Kerala, have resigned and returned home during lockdown as they feared contagion.In Pune, 70 per cent of nursing staff in most hospitals with more than 100 beds are from Kerala.Some of these nurses, according to Ram, have refused to come back to the city due to pressure from family, as reported by hospitals.“These hospitals are primarily concerned that even as they handover beds to government, there may not be sufficient nursing staff. As we assured them that we will also appeal these nurses that the government will provide all kinds of for the treatment of Covid patients,” said Ram.Ram further said that there is need to build confidence among these staff as there is fear. “We will try and convince these nurses, many of them from Kerala, not to leave jobs. If necessary as last resort, we will act against them under MESMA.”The state government on Friday decided to take charge of 80 per cent of total operational beds in private hospitals in Pune, Mumbai and other cities.The Pune district administration held a meeting in this regard with private hospitals and they were appraised about the decision.Pune-based Nobel hospital, which has been treating Covid patients, reported at least 100 nurses have resigned during past three months to return home.Most of these nurses, according to hospital authorities, are from Kerala.“We have been getting resignations of many nurses even since government have started special trains taking back migrant workers have started. On a daily basis, an average of seven want to leave even as we try and convince them to stay back,” said Dr H K Sale, one of the directors at Noble hospital, adding that he hasn’t accepted most of the resignations.According to Dr Riya Punjabi, medical superintendent at Inlaks and Budhrani hospital, the hospital is facing a class IV staff-crunch, but is able to manage at present with the strength of nurses working.“At Budhrani hospital, around 50 staff out of 260 have returned to their homes in the last two months. Some of them are reluctant to come back due to the Covid scare. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is now helping us with contacts of others where we can call and ask them to work,” Dr Punjabi said, adding thatsome staff living in Tadiwala road and Yerawada, which are red zones. Chief nurse at the Nobel hospital Trupti Nanda said that 80 per cent of the 400+ staff at the hospital hails from Kerala.“Of these 400-odd nurses, around 100 have returned to their respective towns in Kerala even as many still come to me with resignations,” said Nanda, adding the main concern for them is safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-city-hospitals-face-staff-crunch-as-nurses-leave-for-hometowns/story-DAiMYfWEREF9UaW3SlO7qJ.html
25-05-2020||Bangalore||69 more Covid-19 cases in Karnataka, state tally reaches 2,158||As many as 69 coronavirus cases were reported from Karnataka, taking the total number of Covid-19 cases in the state to 2,158 on Monday, according to data released by state Health Department.According to the Department, 69 new Covid-19 cases were reported between 5 pm yesterday to 12 noon today.26 coronavirus patients were discharged after receiving treatment while one patient died due to the virus in the state today.Currently, there are 1,433 active cases in Karnataka, 680 have been discharged while 43 others have lost their lives.Two other deaths of Covid-19 positive patients were also reported in the state due to non-COVID causes, according to the data. (The story has been published from a wire feed without any modifications to the text, only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/69-more-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-state-tally-reaches-2-158/story-JZxDdzNzFMDObWyi7UfgcM.html
25-05-2020||Pune||Monday Musings: Preparing for phasing out of lockdown 4.0||Now that the economic engine is coming back to life with the gradual phasing out of lockdown 4.0, what should we expect in public places? Will people follow the cardinal rules of prevention from Covid-19 that we are all familiar with? Masks in public places, use of sanitisers, frequent handwash with soap and social distancing? Going by the indications that are available, social distancing is the first casualty that one sees at a number of places. Last week, we reported about this busy pre-dawn market on Satara road where retailers and wholesalers by the hundreds gather every morning to do their trade. There was absolutely no social distancing of any kind in this area which adjoins micro-containment clusters. In Pimpri-Chinchwad, red zone restrictions were lifted on Thursday and as per that order, all market areas and all shops, including salons and garages, could now remain open from 9 am to 5 pm. Although people were wearing masks, here too, social distancing was missing. In Pune, which has seen 248 Covid-19 deaths and 4,600 positive cases as of May 23, a number of shopkeepers are among those who have tested positive for Covid-19. The most glaring case is that of a medical wholesaler in the peth areas where seven shop assistants tested positive and spread the infection to 41 of their contacts in different parts of the city, including their own families, the shop owner and his family. While economic activity cannot be halted indefinitely and shops, offices, markets and public transport will start functioning sooner than later, it is for each individual to take the responsibility of protecting the self and family. As reported by us on Sunday, Dr Amar Fettle, Kerala’s state nodal officer for Covid-19, has advised a series of simple and easy to follow precautionary steps and strategies in the post-lockdown phase when we start stepping out for work and other activities. “ When you step out of the house, imagine that pink and green viruses are floating all over the place and on all kinds of surfaces- cars and shop counters. Keeping that in mind, always use a simple face mask. Remember that the virus will not come to your house on its own, unless you bring it. To avoid this hospitality, put on the mask every time you leave the house,” is his simple advice. “Wash your hands with soap every time you leave the house and enter. Sanitise your hands every time you leave shops, banks and offices. Wash your hands again and again till you are bored….”Washing of feet after coming from outside as was done by our previous generations; maintaining social distance in public places; taking special care of the elderly and those with conditions like diabetes, and teaching children ‘cough hygiene’ are some of the other steps that he has recommended.Dr Fettle urged people to listen only to medical experts; obey the guidelines issued by the government and the local authority and pay no heed to advice on social media. Maintaining health to build immunity, consuming healthy foods; fruits, vegetables and green leafy vegetables; avoiding hospitals for small illnesses and ensuing enough sleep and peace of mind would be important. As he advised, we need to be alert about our own safety; that of our family; our neighbours; friends who are in frequent contact and helpers such as housemaids. For now, this is the only universe that we need to focus on. abhay.vaidya@hindustantimes.com ****||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/monday-musings-preparing-for-phasing-out-of-lockdown-4-0/story-qRA0OTyLThWj5KyMlAAIVJ.html
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s Faridkot becomes Covid-19 free after 51 days||With the recovery of 10 patients on Monday, there are no more active Covid-19 cases in the district. The 10 recovered patients, include seven Nanded returnees, who were discharged from Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH) on Monday. The district had reported 62 positive cases, including 51 Nanded pilgrims. It took 51 days for the district to become Covid-19 free, the first positive case was reported on April 4.Faridkot civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said there are no active Covid-19 cases in the district after 10 patients tested negative for the second time. “Seven people had returned from Takht Sri Huzur Sahib in Maharashtra’s Nanded, while three were labourers who had returned from other states. The discharged patients have been asked to stay in home quarantine,” he said.Deputy commissioner Kumar Saurabh Raj said appealed the people to cooperate with the administration to keep Faridkot Covid-19-free.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-s-faridkot-becomes-covid-19-free-after-51-days/story-e7k5QEP0V6hybueMm8WrmO.html
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||Two children, 4 adults test positive for Covid-19 in Jalandhar||Two children aged eight and 10 years were among six persons who tested positive for Covid-19 in Jalandhar on Monday, taking the count to 228 in the district, including seven deaths and 200 recoveries, said Dr TP Singh Sandhu, nodal officer. Five persons including the children were contacts of a 36-year-old positive patient of Dada Colony in the city. The sixth patient was a 56-year -old man from Guru Amardas Colony who had also contracted severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), health officials said. District health authorities have also collected samples of 6,567 persons of which 5,885 tested negative. The district has reported 123 positive cases since May 1, the highest in the state after Amritsar, which has 325 positive cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-children-4-adults-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-jalandhar/story-CJalwKLf6VCLROcxLjPEBM.html
25-05-2020||Lucknow||Lockdown 4.0: State bus services in Uttar Pradesh to start at short notice||The Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) is preparing to restart operations at a short notice but the date of resuming the services is yet to be decided, a senior official said on Monday. Reacting to reports that the state roadways buses would be restarting normal operations from June 1, the managing director of UPSRTC, Rajshekhar said the final decision will depend on the directions of the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Uttar Pradesh government regarding the ongoing lockdown. “It has come to the notice of UPSRTC headquarters that many websites and social media sites have posted some information about the operations of buses from June 1,” Rajshekhar told reporters. “The start of operations and modalities will depend on the directions of the MHA and state government regarding the lockdown and its opening after May 31,” he added. “We are preparing ourselves so that we can start operations at a short notice. The final date, time and modalities of operation completely depend on the decision about the lockdown and its lifting,” he said further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lockdown-4-0-state-bus-services-in-uttar-pradesh-to-start-at-short-notice/story-9D3G1259kcnsprvqzihPYM.html
25-05-2020||Pune||Army man tries to kill wife, then attempts suicide in Pune: Police||A 33-year-old Army jawan allegedly tried to kill his wife with a kitchen knife following a quarrel and later attempted suicide in Vishrantwadi area of Pune in the early hours of Sunday, police said.The woman is hospitalised and out of danger, while the man has been discharged and will be arrested soon, said a Vishrantwadi police station official.“The jawan is posted in Jammu and Kashmir and was on leave. He used to doubt his wife’s character and they often had fights. After an altercation over shifting a cooler in the house, the jawan took a kitchen knife and injured her on the face, stomach and hands. He then tried to slit his veins,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/army-man-tries-to-kill-wife-then-attempts-suicide-in-pune-police/story-bM0MIE4TLbndkkuEn1OB5L.html
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records 9 new Covid-19 cases, total cases at 265||Chandigarh on Monday reported 9 new Covid-19 positive cases, taking the total number of people infected with the virus to 265, said the Union Territory Health department. India witnessed the highest ever spike of 6,977 positive cases in the last 24 hours and the total number of Covid-19 stood at 1,38,845, according to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.India is now among the top 10 countries in the world regarding the total number of Covid-19 cases.With 154 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, the total number of deaths due to Covid-19 now stands at 4,021 in the country.Out of the total number of cases, 77,103 are active cases and 57,721 have been cured/discharged/migrated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-9-new-covid-19-cases-total-cases-at-265/story-P6wx03tqIzMamrhp8S9uJL.html
25-05-2020||Patna||Migrants walk through ‘hell’ to reach ‘heaven’ in Bihar but stare at uncertain future||They had left their homes for greener pastures in faraway Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi and Rajasthan.The corona-fuelled lockdown having shattered their dreams, they are now walking, cycling and hitchhiking hundreds of miles under an unforgiving sun blazing down at over 40 degrees to reach their homes in an impoverished Bihar, where an uncertain future awaits them.Hungry and exhausted, these migrant workers are arriving at Sonathu and other villages in Bihar’s Aurangabad district from places as far-off as Surat, Mumbai, Delhi, Jaipur and Chennai every day, carrying tales of trauma and tribulation.But nobody comes to embrace them and all are curtly directed to forlorn government schools and other buildings that pass off as institutional quarantine centres that would be their home for the next 21 days.Sonathu gram panchayat, with a population of around 10,000, has already received over 400 migrant workers, its head Poonam Devi told PTI over the phone. The area, about 60 km from state capital Patna, was a naxalite hotbed until a few years ago.Every returnee has a story to tell about how they made it back to their village, says Poonam Devi.“Coronavirus has forced people to walk through hell to reach heaven (home),” Moti Kumar, who hails from Dhamni village, said after returning from Chennai.Kumar and 11 others--a fellow villager and the rest from Banka district--commenced their daunting journey from Chennai on foot on May 13. It took them nearly 11 days to reach home.In the southern metropolis, the migrants from Bihar worked in a factory manufacturing rubber items for cars.“Losing our jobs and left with no money to pay for room rent, we started walking towards Bihar. But police drove us back from the Tamil Nadu-Andhra Pradesh border.“We were determined to reach home. So we sneaked our way through a forest and reached a national highway,” Kumar, who is now in home quarantine, said.Kumar’s group hitched rides on trucks to reach Jharkhand, from where they again set out on foot, and finally reached their village.His relative Gyanendra Kumar Singh said every day they see people trundling down the roads lugging suitcases and bundles clanking with utensils, betraying their migrant status.Satyendra Kumar, an advocate and social worker based in Daudnagar in the district, said 16 young men recently pedalled over 1,000 km from Delhi to reach their homes.At least 1,200 returnees have been housed in four quarantine centres in Daudnagar sub-division, he said.Some worked in cloth mills in Gujarat, while others were engaged in carpet making in Jaipur. Those in Delhi worked as masons and also in cable manufacturing units, Kumar said.All of them have managed to escape hunger and hoplessness in cities they had made their home. These cities, bustling with commercial activity and throbbing with life, fed their dreams of a better future that their tiny, somnolent villages cannot offer.Poonam Devi said jobs under MGNREGA and agricultural activity that are far less paying are their only options.“While the returnees are still in quarantine centres, their families have started approaching us for jobs under MGNREGA,” she said.Satyendra Kumar said under the state government’s instructions, MGNREGA job cards have been readied for 1,100 of the 1,200 returnees housed in the quarantine centres in Daudnagar.Many of these migrants were earning between Rs 10,000 and Rs 15,000 a month outside Bihar.Shafalta Singh, a college principal and resident of Dhamni village, said, “These are difficult times but our village has the culture of accommodating everybody.” Looking at the brighter side of the reverse exodus of the migrant labourers, Satyendra Kumar said it may end the migration of “ropanniya” (seed planters) from Sitamarhi district in Bihar and Palamau and Latehar districts in Jharkhand to Aurangabad.The “ropanniya” outsiders take contract to plant paddy and get paid handsomely.Like Aurangabad, lakhs of migrants have returned to the villages of Bihar and many more are set to arrive on ‘Shramik Special’ trains, while in a departure from the trend, over 2,200 migrants from Khagaria district have returned to work in Telangana.The the exact number of migrants from Bihar working in other states is not yet known.In the initial days of homeward migration, Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi had put the number at 27 lakh.His estimate was based on the number of people who had received the state government’s assistance of Rs 1,000 per head and others who applications were being processed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/migrants-walk-through-hell-to-reach-heaven-in-bihar-but-stare-at-uncertain-future/story-K5glaR3mxCVDZBSfuwkAWK.html
25-05-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh govt to provide social security, insurance to labourers||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday said that the state government will provide social security and insurance to labourers and no state can take manpower from Uttar Pradesh without his government’s permission. “If any state wants manpower, they cannot take our people from the state without our permission as there were reports of misbehaviour with them in other states. We are taking full responsibility for labourers’ social security. We will provide every kind of security to them including insurance. Wherever they will go, we will always stand by them,” Yogi said. The Chief Minister said that skill mapping is being done in Uttar Pradesh and a commission will be set up for labourers to ensure employment for them. On Sunday, Adityanath had ordered the formation of a ‘Migration Commission’ for the purpose of providing the workers, who have returned to the state during the lockdown phase, with employment suited to their skills.This information was shared during a press conference held by the Additional Chief Secretary, Home Secretary and Principal Secretary (Health) at the Lok Bhavan.During the course of a meeting, the Chief Minister had ordered the formation of the Commission and asked all officials to ensure suitable employment is provided to all workers, numbering close to 23 lakhs, who have returned to Uttar Pradesh.Apart from this, he also ordered all workers to be sent to home quarantine for 14 days, after they are provided with rations and Rs 1,000 in cash, and conduct skill mapping so that they can be accommodated in different sectors.The Chief Minister asked the Health Department to increase the number of samples tested per day to 10,000, which currently stands at over 7,000, according to the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-govt-to-provide-social-security-insurance-to-labourers/story-H4LoB3pc0NVAyPFllPlQEK.html
25-05-2020||Bangalore||Bengaluru airport introduces ‘contactless journey’ to contain Covid-19||The Bengaluru airport management is introducing a unique feature of parking-to-boarding contactless journey for the passengers as the domestic flight resumes from Monday. In order to contain coronavirus transmission among passengers and staff, the Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL) introduced the new feature of contactless journey right from pre-entry check to security check and boarding. “Contactless would be the buzzword at the Kempegowda International Airport, Bengaluru when operations resume from May 25,” the BIAL said in a statement on Sunday. With greater emphasis on minimum touch and minimum exposure between passengers and airport personnel, BIAL aims to minimise all physical contact at the airport. The technology will continue to enable a seamless airport journey, with greater emphasis on health and safety, the statement said. “We have introduced innovative contactless procedures to minimise exposure at the airport,” Hari Marar, managing director and chief executive officer of BIAL, said. “These enhancements demonstrate our continued commitment to keep our passengers safe in this environment.” According to the BIAL, the features include pre-entry process, where the passengers have to wear masks and carry e-boarding or printed passes. The travellers will undergo thermal scan and will have to show that the Aarogya Setu app on the passengers mobile phone has the ‘you-are-safe’ message. “CISF personnel will verify the boarding pass and Government-issued Photo ID using an electronic device or through a magnified glass screen,” it said. The doormats will be soaked with bleach at the terminal entrance to disinfect the shoes, the BIAL said. There will be contactless self-service kiosk where the passengers will collect the baggage tag before proceeding to the airline counter to drop-off luggage. A transparent partition has been installed at the airport, to ensure the safety of both airline staff and passenger at the airline bag drop counters. Under the new contactless process, body scanning will be done using door frame metal detectors. Stamping of the boarding pass has been suspended, as directed by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation, the BIAL said. Before boarding, the airline staff will once again do thermal screening and then permit boarding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/bengaluru-airport-introduces-contactless-journey-to-contain-covid-19/story-m7YWTRrXVIj6ppzaQYtPMM.html
25-05-2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan cross 7000-mark, death toll 163||The novel coronavirus toll in Rajasthan rose to 163 with three more fatalities and number of cases has gone up to 7,028 after 286 more people tested positive, an official said. There are 3,017 active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 3,848 patients have recovered so far. The three new fatalities were from Jaipur, Chittorgarh and Pali districts, the official said. Out of the 286 new cases, 78 were from Jaipur, 47 from Nagaur, 35 from Jodhpur, 24 from Rajsamand, 22 from Ajmer and 21 from Udaipur districts. Seven people were afflicted with the disease in Pali, followed by six each in Kota, Barmer, Bharatpur and Bhilwara. There were four new Covid-19 cases each from Jaisalmer and Dungarpur, three each from Bikaner, Dholpur, Sikar, Sirohi and Jhunjhunu. Two new cases were from Dausa, one from Alwar and two from other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/covid-19-cases-in-rajasthan-cross-7000-mark-death-toll-163/story-kUJ62Qh50ZvYZlD6v1LcpM.html
25-05-2020||Jaipur||Nearly 3.7 lakh stranded people ferried to their native places in state buses: Rajasthan Minister||Nearly 3.7 lakh people stranded at various places in Rajasthan were facilitated to reach to their native places through state roadways buses during the lockdown period, the state government said on Sunday.The buses conducted 11,500 rounds to ferry migrants, labourers, students to their destinations during the lockdown for free, according to Transport Minister Pratap Singh Khachariawas.He said that an expenditure of Rs. 15.20 crore was incurred on this.The minister said that the buses took the stranded people to various state borders and sometimes to their home districts in other states with the permission of concerning state.The minister thanked the roadways staff, drivers and conductors for their services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/nearly-3-7-lakh-stranded-people-ferried-to-their-native-places-in-state-buses-rajasthan-minister/story-25VH7tfTjRjc3d6YDOPrVM.html
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||Bihar-bound train cancelled, migrants pelt stones at police in Mandi Gobindgarh||Migrant labourers staged a protest and pelted stones at police personnel in Mandi Gobindgarh after a Bihar-bound train was cancelled on Monday morning. Hundreds of labourers had gathered in the fields of Khalsa Senior Secondary School in Mandi Gobindgarh where they were provided temporary shelter.However, upon learning about the cancellation, the migrant labourers blocked the main Jalandhar-Panipat national highway. The labourers also attacked the police party and pelted stones at him.LATHICHARGE Police had to use mild lathicharge to disperse the protestors. Senior civil and police officials rushed to the spot to control the situation.Sub-divisional magistrate Anand Sagar Sharma said the situation was under control. “We are coordinating with railways to arrange another train for the labourers so that they can return at the earliest,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bihar-bound-train-cancelled-migrants-pelt-stones-at-police-in-mandi-gobindgarh/story-AqTVqOLUK9xH1SNcpnwNVI.html
25-05-2020||Lucknow||Lockdown 4.0: Domestic flight operations resume in Lucknow||Domestic flight operations started from the Chaudhary Charan Singh airport here on Monday morning, as passenger air travel resumed within the country after a gap of two months, owing to the Covid-19-induced lockdown.   As many as 10 flights will take off for cities like Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad and Bengaluru from the airport and a similar number will be landing here during the day , airport director AK Sharma said.Necessary precautions , as per guidelines , including sanitization of luggage, thermal screening ,use of masks, social distancing are being strictly followed, Sharma said.Similar precautions are also being taken by airport and airline staff, the director added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lockdown-4-0-domestic-flight-operations-resume-in-lucknow/story-EGU36UNmdoHtnzk0B34ylO.html
25-05-2020||Pune||First flight with 23 passengers on board from Delhi lands in Pune||The first flight from Delhi’s IGI Airport, since the resumption of domestic flight operations, arrived here on Monday with 23 passengers on board, officials said.A passenger, who arrived here along with her child said, “I was nervous before the flight but all passengers were taking precautions. Very few are people travelling right now.”Another passenger said, “I came from Riyadh 14 days back. I was in quarantine in Delhi. My report for COVID-19 came negative. The journey was fantastic. I faced no problems at all. It feels good to come back home after a long time. I was among the people who came back from Riyadh as part of the Vande Bharat Mission. I am thankful to the government for helping out.” Domestic flight operations have resumed today across the country after two months of suspension except in Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal.All scheduled commercial passenger flights were suspended in India following the Centre imposed lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus.The Airports Authority of India on Thursday issued Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for airports as part of preparations for the recommencement of domestic commercial flight operations. According to the SOPs, airports have been advised to ensure that passenger seating arrangement is done in such a manner so as to maintain social distancing among passengers by blocking those seats that are not to be used, with proper markers or tapes. All passengers also must compulsorily be registered with the Aarogya Setu app on their phones as per the directives.Besides this, alternate check-in counters should be used to avoid congestion. The airport staff must be provided PPE kits, face masks etc, and they should also be provided with hand sanitisers. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-first-flight-with-23-passengers-on-board-arrives-from-delhi-as-domestic-air-services-resume/story-XCy37TexaG7MLuLXNcZXCP.html
25-05-2020||Patna||Will ensure work for returning migrants, says Nitish; urges industries to set up units in Bihar||Asserting that Bihar has a huge market, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Sunday urged industrialists to set up units in the state and assured them every possible government support.Directing officials to encourage industrialists for investing in the state, Kumar said setting up industries will spur growth and development of market and enhance people’s income.“We are a consumer state. We have a very big market... Businessmen of the state should consider it. They should set up new industries. The state government will extend every possible help,” he said.The chief minister’s comments come as lakhs of migrant workers return to the state amid the coronavirus lockdown.Kumar said there are ample opportunities in the textiles, shoe, bag, furniture and bicycle industries in the state.He said the silk industry has ample opportunities in Bhagalpur and Munger as Bhagalpuri Silk is famous the world over.“We want that people get work here in the state so that they don’t unnecessarily need to go out. We will make arrangements for providing work to everyone in the state. People will be partner in Bihar’s development,” Kumar said.Private companies outside the state did not take care of migrant workers from Bihar, he said, adding that it was their responsibility.Directing officials concerned to carry out a detailed survey of those living at quarantine centres, Kumar said the survey would incorporate details such as from where did the person return, which kind of job he/she was doing and which kind of work be provided to them so that they don’t need to go outside to earn their livelihoods.“It is our responsibility that everyone gets an opportunity to work/employment. The state government would extend all possible help to the people who wish to start their own business,” Kumar said, while inspecting 16 quarantine centres of eight districts through video conferencing.He took stock of the facilities being provided at the quarantine centres and whether sanitation and hygienic conditions are being maintained, a statement said.Kumar also interacted with some of the people living in these centres and inquired about their well-being and also about the facilities being provided to them.This was the third consecutive day when the chief minister took stock of the situation at quarantine centres and inquired and interacted with those living there.“All arrangements have been made at quarantine centres for your betterment. Spend 14 days at these centres happily before leaving for your home. Everyone should maintain social-distancing norms as this is the only effective way to deal with the problem of coronavirus,” the chief minister said. PTI AR SOM TIR||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/will-ensure-work-for-returning-migrants-says-nitish-urges-industries-to-set-up-units-in-bihar/story-axm6Jfy5S5WReSEMocmVXJ.html
25-05-2020||Patna||Bihar records 180 new Covid-19 cases, tally nearing 2,600||Bihar has reported 180 new cases of Covid-19 from 15 districts, pushing the tally to 2,574 in the state, the health department said.Of the fresh cases, Nawada and East Champaran accounted for 11 each and the state capital Patna recorded four new infections, it said.The health department, in a tweet late on Sunday evening, said,”63 more Covid-19 +ve cases in Bihar taking the total to 2,574... We are ascertaining their trail of infection”. Earlier on Sunday, the state had registered 117 new positive cases and two fatalities due to the contagion, taking the death toll to 13.A 60-year-old man from Siwan died at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH), Patna, while another 48-year-old Covid-19 positive patient from Saran passed away on Saturday, but the health department informed about the death on Sunday.Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has announced an ex-gratia payment of Rs 4 lakh each to the families of those who died due to Covid-19.The state now has 1,859 active cases, while 702 patients have recovered from the disease and been discharged from hospitals, the bulletin said.Patna tops the state’s Covid-19 list with 200 cases followed by Rohtas at 165.Migrant labourers, who started returning to Bihar from the first week of May, constitute 62 per cent of the total confirmed cases in the state, the bulletin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-records-180-new-covid-19-cases-tally-nearing-2-600/story-seGzcchyTjuFc86eUuwZfJ.html
25-05-2020||Ranchi||20 new Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand, tally rises to 370||Twenty new coronavirus cases were reported in Jharkhand on Sunday, taking the Covid-19 tally to 370 in the state, according to a government bulletin. The new cases were reported from Hazaribag (four), East Singhbhum (four), Garhwa (three), Koderma (two), Ranchis Bundu block (one), Ramgarh (three) and West Singhbhum (three). Of the total 370 cases, 196 are migrants who have returned to the state since May 1, the bulletin said. A total of 218 cases are active, while 148 patients have recovered so far, it said. Four persons have died of Covid-19 in the state, it added. The recovery rate in Jharkhand is 40 per cent as against the national rate of 41.28 per cent, while the mortality rate in the state is 1.08 per cent as against the national rate of 2.93 per cent, the Covid-19 bulletin claimed. A total of 5,265 travellers are under surveillance and asymptomatic, while 3,811 travellers have completed observation of 28 days, it said. According to the bulletin, 87,100 people are in various quarantine centres across the state while 2,38,367 people are under home quarantine. The tests of swab samples are being conducted at RIMS, MGM, Jamshedpur, PMCH, Dhanbad, and Itki Arogyashala in Ranchi. With five more persons recovering of the infection in Ranchi during the day, 100 of the 115 coronavirus patients have been cured in the state capital. Now the state capital has only 13 Covid-19 positive cases. Earlier, two had died in Ranchi and one each in Bokaro and Koderma, health officials said. In a statement on Sunday, Ranchi Deputy Commissioner Rai Mahimapat Ray appealed to the people to continue following the lockdown 4.0 guidelines to prevent the spread of the dreaded virus. He said people should venture out only if there is any work and they should wear masks and maintain social distancing. “Ranchi has come out of the red zone and now it is in the orange zone,” the DC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/20-new-covid-19-cases-in-jharkhand-tally-rises-to-370/story-6tsqzuC0naKf2As1h0oxRL.html
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh condoles death of hockey legend Balbir Singh Sr||Chandigarh: Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday expressed deep sorrow on the death of Balbir Singh Senior, saying the hockey legend exemplified qualities of perseverance, dedication and sportsmanship and will remain an inspiration for generations of players.One of India’s greatest hockey players who won three Olympic gold medals in a stellar career, Balbir Singh Sr died at a hospital here on Monday after battling multiple health issues for over two weeks. “Saddened to learn about the passing away of Hockey legend Balbir Singh Sr. A Triple Olympic Gold medallist,” Capt Amarinder Singh tweeted.“He exemplified qualities of perseverance, dedication and sportsmanship. Sir, you will be dearly missed and will forever remain an inspiration! A grateful state bids you farewell,” Capt Singh said.The legendary centre-forward was 96 and is survived by his daughter Sushbir and three sons Kanwalbir, Karanbir, and Gurbir. His sons are settled in Canada and he used to live here with his daughter and grandson Kabir. Saddened to learn about passing away of Hockey legend Balbir Singh Sr. A Triple Olympic Gold medallist, he exemplified qualities of perseverance, dedication & sportsmanship. Sir, you will be dearly missed & will forever remain an inspiration! A grateful State bids you farewell. pic.twitter.com/bwQwJyYbdoThe three-time Olympic gold medallist was in a semi-comatose state since May 18 and had developed a blood clot in his brain after being first admitted to the hospital for bronchial pneumonia with high fever. He was tested for Covid-19 but reports came out negative.Singh suffered three cardiac arrests during the course of his treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cm-capt-amarinder-singh-condoles-death-of-hockey-legend-balbir-singh-sr/story-Cr52xchIpIzmLQGVniFvOL.html
25-05-2020||Mumbai||With 1,541 Covid-19 cases, Dharavi adds to Mumbai’s woes||Mumbai reported 1,725 new Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday, and one of its hotspots, the Dharavi slum, recorded 27 of them. With this, Dharavi’s Covid-19 tally reached 1,541.So far, 59 people have died due to the disease in Dharavi, according to Maharashtra health department.In a new initiative, the civic authorities are experimenting with ‘group laughter therapy’ for the people of Dharavi in a bid to ease stress and anxiety levels in the crowded slum district, now largely in containment.Meanwhile, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai reached 30,359. The death toll has risen to 988 after 39 deaths were reported on Sunday in the metropolitan city.The total number of cases recovered and discharged so far in the city is 8,074.The hospitals in Mumbai are stretched to capacity, front-line staff are struggling to deal with physical, emotional and psychological trauma. Doctors are contracting the infection by the dozen, fights are breaking out in hospital queues and bodies of deceased patients are being left behind in wards for hours on end. The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corpoation (BMC) has taken over private hospitals and is looking to turn buses and school vans into ambulances.“Mumbai is on the verge of a health crisis,” said Dr Deepak Baid, president of Association of Medical Consultants.Interns, resident doctors, senior doctors, and nurses, all working in three shifts of eight hours each with personal protective equipment (PPE) as their only shield, are fighting a steep battle against not just the disease but also mental health concerns.In Mumbai alone, 300 medical staff have contracted the infection.Many woman nurses and doctors complain of urinary tract infection (UTI) due to the dehydration. The problem gets worse during menstruation.All the medical staff on Covid duty are given alternative accommodation in hotels or lodges. Many haven’t seen their family for over two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/with-1-541-covid-19-cases-dharavi-adds-to-mumbai-s-woes/story-WX41109PJzGGaXi2ZxjRAM.html
25-05-2020||Ranchi||Mandatory 14-day quarantine for all passengers coming to Ranchi: Jharkhand government||All air passengers coming to Ranchi from Monday, when domestic air services will resume after two months, would have to stay in home quarantine for 14 days, the Jharkhand government said.A notification issued by Chief Secretary Sukhdev Singh said all the airlines operating from the Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi should share the list of arriving passengers with details as required by the state transport department.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageEvery passenger coming to the state by flight “shall have to compulsorily stay in home quarantine for 14 days, observing the guidelines issued by the Department of Health, Family Welfare and Medical Education,” the notification said.However, any person travelling to Jharkhand and intending to exit the state within 72 hours and any returnee who has already undergone the prescribed quarantine period are exempted from the 14-day quarantine norm, it said.The state transport department also asked outgoing passengers to reach the airport at least two hours ahead of scheduled flight times and go for web check-in to avoid standing in a queue, an official statement said here.Also read: ‘I was nervous’: First flyers share experience as domestic air services resumeThey have to enter the aircraft wearing face masks and gloves, sanitize their luggage, download Arogya Setu app and maintain social distance, the department said in another notification.According to it, confirmed flight tickets and flight boarding pass would be treated as lockdown passes and only authorised taxis are allowed to ferrying passengers from their houses to the airport.State Transport Secretary K Ravi Kumar, Ranchi Deputy Commissioner Rai Mahimapat Rai and Birsa Munda Airport authorities took stock of the preparations on Sunday.There were no domestic flights in the country for two months because of the Covid-19 induced lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/mandatory-14-day-quarantine-for-all-passengers-coming-to-ranchi-jharkhand-government/story-6ZqibRoaxYyEuf8ohhhG9M.html
25-05-2020||Delhi||Namaz from home, virtual hugs: This Eid, Muslims appeal to stay indoors amid coronavirus scare||Shunning the old order is never easy, especially when it comes to deep-seated cultural and religious practices. But unprecedented times call for equally strong overhauls. As virtual becomes the new reality, Muslims across the country plan to offer Eid prayers from home and wish each other on video calls.“Eid for us has always been about opening our homes and hearts to our friends and celebrating with them with good food and banter. This Eid, we’ve decided to donate to various NGOs and charities that are looking after the most affected populations across the country,” says filmmaker Faraz Arif Ansari. The Sheer Qorma director has a message for all: “As a responsible citizen, we have to make sure we take every precautionary measure to stop a catastrophic spread of the virus. Congregating to perform the prayer could endanger lives, an act that is strictly forbidden in Islam. It is absolutely crucial that we celebrate Eid at home. Look out for one another, be compassionate and kind. Kindness will save the world.”When we talk about Eid in Delhi, it is hard to not mention Jama Masjid and the Walled City. People from all over, irrespective of religion, flock to this part of the Capital to partake in the revelries. The air is redolent of the aroma of delectable kebabs being slow-roasted over coal fire. Mosques have a steady stream of the faithful offering prayers. Abu Sufiyan, founder of Purani Dilli Walo ki Baatein, has been involved in community service, helping those affected severely by COVID-19.“Old Delhi has always been the centre of our syncretic Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb, and this time too, we are coming forward to help those in need, irrespective of their religion, region or ethnicity. With #EidApnoKeLiye, we plan to help raise funds and ration for migrant labours and other marginalised communities. To extend a helping hand in the hour of need is the true essence of Eid.”  Follow @puranidilliwaley Thank you Mufti Mukarram @zingyzest @girl.pilot @ranasafvi @wajid_khan_artist , @naziaerum @ishqurdu @nasheet_s @farazarifansari @syed.sadia & @delhi6wala for sending out message on #Eid #Eid2020 #eidmubarakA post shared by  Purani Dilli Walo Ki Baatein™ (@puranidilliwaley) on May 23, 2020 at 11:15am PDTAuthor Rana Safvi, who has been known to host gala feasts and keep an open house, echoes the sentiment. “ Iss baar Eid nahi, Eidi manaao. Hum har saal apne baccho ko toh Eidi dete hi hain, par iss saal unn logo ko bhi ration-paani do jinke paas kuch nahi hai. I will make something sweet for the family in the morning, but the celebrations would not be of the same scale,” she says. Read: Ramzan under lockdown: The indomitable spirit of the Walled CityFestivities are incomplete without the constant buzz of the doorbell, neighbours and family sharing traditional delicacies, and the little ones prancing about in shiny new clothes. But this is no time for nostalgia. “No one should have any FOMO (Fear Of Missing Out). Don’t be afraid of the situation as we are all in the same boat. There is no point in putting yourself and others around you at risk,” says 32-year old visual artist Nasheet Shadani. Sharing his plans for the day, he says it is going to be an e-Eid. “I plan to do video calls and share photos of the celebrations from my home. For the kids, Eidi (token money and gifts) will be transferred online,” he says, adding that he, along with some friends, is helping raise funds and ration for those who cannot afford it. “It is important to help those in the lower-income groups who have been rendered jobless. They are too self-respecting to ask for any charity. So we are identifying these people and providing ration to them,” he says.Even in the bleakest of time, a ray of hope shines through. Author Nazia Erum feels that one should look at the positives. “This too shall pass and next year we will have Eid where we will be with our loved ones. These are testing times for all of humanity, not just a particular community or country. Help those who need it the most. The money you would usually spend on Eid, divert it to the lesser-privileged,” she says. The pandemic has also brought with it new opportunities to express creativity, she feels. “I made and hand-painted paper lanterns at home with my kid. We also made toys at home using ice-cream sticks for a baby cousin,” she adds. Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htcity for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/namaz-from-home-virtual-hugs-this-eid-muslims-appeal-to-stay-indoors-amid-coronavirus-scare/story-y1CwVCtBfVV9MiiNRCqUlO.html
25-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro all set to resume operation after Covid-19 lockdown, lays down rules for passengers: Report||After being shut for more than two months, the metro rail services in Delhi will resume soon, Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan reported on Monday.However, the metro which is known for its crowded coaches, will see very less number of people. Hindustan quoted Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) officials as saying that the passengers will have to follow social distancing norms and maintain a distance of one metre while travelling in the metro. Those who are sitting in the coaches will have to leave one seat vacant (occupying alternate seat). The DMRC has pasted stickers on the seat with a message of social distancing.All this will be monitored by metro officials through CCTV cameras, Hindustan reported.The revised guidelines, once implemented, will allow only 50 passengers in a metro coach. The DMRC runs metro trains with four, six and eight coaches on various routes. After the new guidelines, the longest train (of eight coaches) will have 400 passengers during a trip.Before the lockdown was implemented, 2,500 passengers used to travel in DMRC’s longest metro train.However, some passengers will be allowed to stand in coaches, Hindustan reported quoting DMRC officials.The DMRC has 300 metro trains which conduct 5,000 rounds on various lines (blue, red, yellow, violet etc). The metro connects many nearby cities to Delhi, like Noida, Ghaziabad (both in Uttar Pradesh), Gurugram and Bahadurgarh (in Haryana).The DMRC officials told Hindustan that after services resume, they will suffer 75 per cent operating loss. The DMRC has already suffered a loss or Rs 600 crore during the lockdown, and now, with reduced capacity, the train is likely to operate under more daily loss.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-metro-all-set-to-resume-operation-after-covid-19-lockdown-lays-down-rules-for-passengers-report/story-PuUqk2JuEbkONcTuoATxMM.html
25-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body withdraws notice sent to doctor for prescribing Covid-19 swab test||A day after HT had reported that a Ghatkopar physician was issued a show-cause notice for prescribing a coronavirus swab test to an asymptomatic patient, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Sunday has withdrawn the notice amid widespread criticism from the medical fraternity.As per the notice issued by Ajit Ambi, the assistant municipal commissioner of N ward, Dr Chetan Velani was found violating the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897; the Disaster Management Act, 2005, as well as the guidelines issued by BMC over Covid-19 testing. Stating that prescribing the swab test to an asymptomatic patient was in violation of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the civic body notice said Dr Velani’s licence would be cancelled if he failed to respond within 24 hours of receiving the letter. Ambi did not respond to HT’s calls. Dr Velani has refuted BMC’s allegations. “On Sunday, when I asked BMC to provide the details of the asymptomatic patient [who was allegedly prescribed the swab test], they couldn’t give me any information. Why would I waste the government’s resources if the patient is not a Covid suspect?”The physician himself was quarantined for 14 days, after he had been exposed to an asymptomatic Covid-19 patient. “The government should give some freedom to doctors on identifying the Covid patients. What if I don’t prescribe a swab test to a suspected patient and he dies owing to health complications? Then they will impose a medico-legal case on us,” said Dr Velani.Other doctors, too have come out in Dr Velani’s support. Dr Deepak Baid, president of Association of Medical Consultants, said that the physician did not violate any rule, as he prescribed the swab test after physically examining the patient. “ICMR wants us to wait until the patient shows symptoms. In the meantime, their health conditions keep deteriorating and the virus is transmitted to others, too. Instead of threatening us for doing our duty, the government should do theirs and provide us with PPE [personal protective equipment] to work,” he said.According to the rules of the Indian Medical Council (IMC), only the apex body holds the power to cancel the licence of a doctor. The corporation can’t cancel the registration of any doctor registered with the medical council. We are the only authorised body,” said Dr Shivkumar Utture, president of Maharashtra Medical Council (MMC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-withdraws-notice-sent-to-doctor-for-prescribing-covid-19-swab-test/story-udjqzeUlfYtAdeLstlCuJK.html
25-05-2020||Mumbai||6 customs officers in Mumbai test positive for Covid-19||Six customs officers have been tested positive for coronavirus in the past one week.Three of them, including a deputy commissioner of customs, are from the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT), Nhava Sheva. He last reported to work on May 12 and was under home quarantine after he developed symptoms. On May 20, his test results came positive, said senior officials from the customs department.A commissioner and an assistant commissioner working with the air cargo at Sahar have also been tested positive for coronavirus.According to the internal communication accessed by the paper, the commissioner has been admitted to Apollo Hospital in Navi Mumbai and is responding well to the treatment, while the assistant commissioner has been quarantined at home.“All the officers who had worked with the duo have been asked to remain in isolation at home,” said a source, privy to the information.An officer deployed with the directorate general of vigilance (DGoV) department in the new customs house at Fort, too, has been found to be infected with the virus.Some customs officers have alleged that their seniors have insisted them to report to work, despite the fact that they can work from home.“Officers involved in active clearance of cargo have to report to work. However, those posted in the ancillary sections [which do not are not considered as essential services under the Centre’s guidelines] are also being asked to report to work,” a senior customs officers has alleged.Earlier, a sepoy posted at the new customs house had died on April 11 at Kasturba Hospital due to coronavirus. The sepoy had got infected from his father who worked at Saifee Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/6-customs-officers-in-mumbai-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-k6kogdMPXQgcGKs6nruKJP.html
25-05-2020||City||Lockdown forces many to change profession||For the past 14 years, Kalyan Harale, a resident of Ulhasnagar, used to leave his home around 7am to reach his office in Santacruz. The lockdown announced on March 22 changed it all. The real estate firm shut, leaving Harale, who worked in the administration section, jobless. Faced with the responsibility of his wife, 22-year-old engineering student son and elderly parents, the 48-year-old decided to start selling vegetables on a cart in Siddharth Nagar in Ulhasnagar.“It has been two months now. As I saw residents struggle to get vegetables in the initial phase of the lockdown, I decided to do the job,” said Harale. “I got in touch with local vegetable traders and started to sell vegetables on a hand cart. I earn around ₹300 a day and make half of my monthly salary, but we are managing.”Harale is one of the many who had to change their means of livelihood to sustain the lockdown. Another case in point: Raju Bausakar, 52, a resident of Dombivli, who has a photocopy shop near Brahman Sabha hall in Dombivli (East), now sells biscuits and bread outside it. “Since I opened my shop 30 years ago, I have never shut it for such a long period. I used to earn at least ₹15,000 a month. One of my daughters work, but I don’t like sitting idle. I go out and earn whatever little I can. I set up the stall at least thrice a week,” said Bausakar, who lives with his wife and two daughters.For Smita Palsekar, 47, a Kalyan resident, whose husband is bed-ridden after an accident, and who has two school-going children, not earning was not an option. “I have a fabric shop in Khadakpada in Kalyan (West), which has been shut for two months now. I used to earn around ₹60,000 a month. I now sell vegetables at housing societies, which give me permission to enter,” said Palsekar.She hired a pick-up for ₹15,000 a month to transport and sell vegetables. She earns around ₹1,500 a day. “I have got several regular customers in housing societies. I also take orders in advance,” she said.Santosh Gupta, 36, who has a laundry shop at Adharwadi in Kalyan, now goes out on a bicycle every morning to sell bananas. His family of three is in Madhya Pradesh. “I came to Kalyan as a construction worker and later opened a laundry shop. After the lockdown was announced, my friends gave me the idea of selling bananas. I get ₹40 for a dozen and manage to earn ₹800 a day,” said Gupta. “I have to send at least ₹10,000 to my family. I used to earn around ₹40,000 from the laundry shop, but I have to adapt to the changing circumstances. It is better than not earning at all.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-forces-many-to-change-profession/story-zKPQB9C8o3UWm7C1G0aphP.html
25-05-2020||Mumbai||Youngsters near Mumbai come to the rescue of stranded migrants||With migrant workers struggling to travel back home, a group of samaritans in Vasai has stepped forward to help them.The group on Saturday night facilitated the travel of over 100 labourers from Vasai to their hometown in Tamil Nadu. “It took us over two weeks to get doctors’ certificates, police permission, travel permit and permission from local tehsildars in TN,” said 30-year-old Kaustubh Bhalekar, a student, who started a ‘Humans I Met’ campaign with his friends. “We realised we need funds to get things rolling and so sought help of other citizens.”The group will help another 130 labourers leave the city in another train in the coming week. “It was amazing to see everyone involved in the project, with bureaucrats from TN and Maharashtra going out of their way to make the project possible,” said Bhalekar. “We have served food and water to thousands of stranded migrants in and around Navi Mumbai.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/youngsters-near-mumbai-come-to-the-rescue-of-stranded-migrants/story-t92aLpZnJl1a1FqT4oc4mO.html
25-05-2020||Mumbai||Former Maha CM tests positive for virus||A former Maharashtra chief minister tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday. He is currently admitted at a hospital in Marathwada. The leader, who is a minister in the current government, is asymptomatic and has been admitted as a precaution. He was in Mumbai for official work and had home-quarantined himself after reaching his home town. “He was tested on the sixth day of his quarantine and his report came as positive in the evening,” said a close aide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/former-maha-cm-tests-positive-for-virus/story-MiWLkb4qUByUiCHHx4iAKI.html
25-05-2020||Mumbai||HT Salutes: Visually impaired IIT student raises funds, essentials for his Koli community||A few days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the national lock-down on March 24, Kailash Tandel received a call for help. The 36-year-old had recently started a doctoral thesis at the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay, and Bhagwan Vival often ferried him in his auto rickshaw inside its large leafy campus. Vival, in his 40s and a resident of the eastern suburb of Chandivli, wasn’t making enough money to run his household. Mumbai may be the most affected city in the country today, but even in March the effects of the coronavirus pandemic were felt almost immediately in a city. The heat was sweltering, businesses large and small had closed down and public transport, including three-wheelers had been stopped to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease.Tandel, who is visually impaired, decided to turn to his institutional department to raise funds for the driver; within a day, he collected ₹5,000. That’s when he decided to do this on a larger scale.A first-generation doctoral scholar in his family, Tandel belongs to the Koli community — one of the oldest surviving indigenous communities of the islands that were reclaimed and stitched up to form the city of Mumbai as we know it today. Traditionally, the community earns money through fishing, but the lock-down had put a stop to it. Some of the busiest fish markets in the city like Bhaucha Dhakka or Sassoon Dock in South Mumbai remain closed. “Some fisherfolk have started fishing for either self-consumption or selling their wares at a small-scale level but unless the markets open, there will be no business,” said Tandel, whose father Ganjan and brother Harshad, are fishermen. “Initially I waited to see if political representatives or community leaders are reaching out to the Koli communities. When I saw there was no help coming, I started collecting funds to help the fisherfolk,” said Tandel, who sought funds from IIT-B colleagues, connections to networks through his earlier alma mater, the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), and ration kits from non-governmental organisation, Yuva.In the past two months, he has built a team of 15 volunteers — from his own residential colony at Machimaar Nagar colony in Colaba — to provide dry ration, sanitary napkins and medicines to over 800 residents of Machimaar Nagar, Sudaam jhopdi, Darya Nagar and Murti Nagar, spread across southern Mumbai.The volunteers, including brother Harshad and his wife, Leena, make a list of people and their needs, note their mobile numbers and call them once they have kits ready. Apart from distributing the kits, the volunteers have also distributed 300 sanitisers.“We have also reached out to people with disabilities in areas like Palghar (on the outskirts of Mumbai) with the help of IIT-B For Justice,” said Tandel, referring to a collective of students, researchers and faculty members in the institute.“When I lost my eyesight, it took me 15 days to realise that I cannot see anymore but once I accepted the reality, it was easier to tackle all the problems,” Tandel said, who turned blind at age nine due to a genetic condition called retina pigmentosa. “A person can accomplish anything if his mind is still active. I am no different than people who have vision because I can also perform the same tasks with the help of technology,” he said and added that technology played an important role in organizing volunteer efforts through Zoom video conferencing calls and seeking funds on social media platforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ht-salutes-visually-impaired-iit-student-raises-funds-essentials-for-his-koli-community/story-ubyBZvefLXbxo7dawVT0nJ.html
25-05-2020||City||Food stalls to be allowed on railway platforms from June 1||Railway authorities have decided to allow stalls selling food and books, besides food courts to start functioning on the platforms from June 1, when 200 passenger trains are set to resume operations, eight pairs of which will run on Punjab route. The decision was taken by the railway board for the convenience of passengers. However, there are certain guidelines which need to be followed by the stall owners.Senior divisional commercial manager (DCM) Vivek Sharma said that at railways stations, passengers usually follow the ‘take away’ system and most stations do not have a dinning facility. So stall owners will work the same way but they will have to take care of social distancing at their stall. Besides, it will also be mandatory for them to wear masks and gloves.Sharma added that at stations like Ludhiana and Amritsar where there are food courts, the staff will have to get the food packed for passengers.He added that the license fee for the period the stalls remained closed, will not be charged from stall owners.ONLY PASSENGERS WITH TICKETS WILL BE ALLOWED INSIDEThe reservation for trains resuming from June 1 has already started and this time, seats are being reserved even for general coaches as only those passengers with confirmed tickets are being allowed inside. No unreserved tickets (general tickets) are being sold at the counters.Moreover, the berths are not available on the trains. There are over 300 passengers on the wait list. Besides, the bookings for Saryu Yamuna Express to be running on June 1 and June 3 has been closed as there are already a large number of passengers on the wait-list. For the train for June 6, there are over 445 passengers on wait-list for sleeper coach in Saryu Yamuna Express. Similar were the status of other trains as well.Senior DCM Vivek Sharma said that the chart of a train is released four hours before the departure of the train from the station. So passengers whose seats are not be confirmed will know four hours in advance so that they don’t come to the station unnecessarily. He added that all passengers will be properly screened before being allowed to board the train and TTEs have also been directed to avoid close contact with passengers. “Although, passengers with confirmed tickets will be allowed to board the train but still TTEs will still come for checking. They have been provided gloves, masks and sanitisers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/food-book-stalls-to-be-allowed-on-railway-stations-from-june-1/story-oeFn0TOfQHwrlRGs1VquUO.html
25-05-2020||Mumbai||2 from Mumbai are MBA CET toppers||Two candidates from the city – Mumbai-based coaching institute teacher and mentor Shashank Prabhu, 34, and engineering graduate Ankit Thakker, 24 – emerged toppers of the state’s MBA common entrance test (CET) , as the results were announced on Saturday. A total of 1.1 lakh students appeared for the exam on March 14 and 15 and the results were delayed by two months.Shashank scored 159 out of 200, while Ankit scored 155 and got the second rank. Both of them scored 99.99 percentile. “This is my second attempt at CET as I wanted to better my score and be eligible for a seat in one of the top B-schools in Mumbai,” said Ankit, a resident of Chembur, who got his engineering degree from the Institute of Chemical Technology two years ago.This is the third time Shashank got the first rank in the entrance test and the sixth time he scored 99.99 percentile. Shashank said the overall scores of CET aspirants dipped this year because the visual reasoning (VR) part of the paper was more difficult compared to the past few years. “Surprisingly, Maths was easier,” said Shashank, a resident of Dombivli.While 16 students with scores between 159 and 146 scored 99.99 percentile, seven scored 99.98 percentile in the exam this year. A total of 1,041 students scored 99 percentile and above, while over 1,200 candidates scored less than 1 percentile in their test.The qualified candidates can now register themselves for the online counselling session, following which students will get to choose the institutes they want to seek admission in. The CET cell, however, is yet to announce an admission schedule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-from-mumbai-are-mba-cet-toppers/story-Mgnjha90REa5OAqxg15p5J.html
25-05-2020||City||Migrants in Navi Mumbai fall prey to fraudsters||Desperate to reach home, migrants have become easy targets of fraudsters, who cheat them of their savings by promising road transport or seat on trains.“My only wish was to see my ailing father one last time. An acquaintance told me a truck was charging ₹4,000 for the journey to Samastipur in Bihar. I paid, but the police caught the truck on the highway and we were brought back to Panvel,” said Sabina Mallik, who works as a house help. “I have no money left and my father is no more. I want to go back home. I did many rounds of the registration centre for the special train and am now waiting for my name to appear on the passengers’ list,” said the mother of a five-year-old, who lives in a chawl in Panvel.Many who have been cheated shy away from reporting to the police, fearing action against them.Bittu Singh, 32, from Araria in Bihar, who works as an electrician for housing projects in Panvel, used to earn ₹800-₹1,000 a day. “After one-and-a-half months of the lockdown, I was left with ₹1,800. A friend told me they were arranging a small vehicle and I gave him ₹1,500. I didn’t hear from him after that. I didn’t have the patience to lodge a complaint,” he said.Satish Gaikwad, senior inspector from Kalamboli police station, said, “When they come for registration for Shramik train, they tell us about being cheated. We tell them not to go in unauthorised transport vehicles.”The Navi Mumbai police have so far registered 40,000 migrants for Shramik special trains.Babasaheb Tupe, senior inspector from Kamothe police station, said, “Our advice to migrant workers is wait for your turn.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrants-in-navi-mumbai-fall-prey-to-fraudsters/story-vgdn2oXYbd11fio0QD0VPJ.html
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||Fruit and veggie vendors have hiked rates, complain customers in Chandigarh||After the municipal corporation (MC) discontinued the use of Chandigarh Transport Union (CTU) buses to supply vegetables and fruits, complaints have come in of vendors not charging rates fixed by the UT market committee daily and increasing prices.A round of the city revealed that most vendors were marking up prices by at least Rs 10 for bananas, melons, watermelons, potatoes and onions. They also did not have rate lists on display.“What is the point of issuing a rate list if vendors don’t comply with it? They are rude to us when we mention the rates fixed by the market committee and refuse to sell to us,” says Ashok Prashar, president, HIG flats resident welfare association (RWA), Sector 43-B.He claims he was charged Rs 40 over and above the given rate per kilo for items such as ginger and capsicum.MANY VENDORS WITHOUT PERMITS“There is a major problem with illegal vendors coming into sectors without permits and charging what they fancy. They use rehris (carts). We have informed the police many times about them, but no action is taken,” says Kuljinder Singh Sra, general secretary, Sector 33-B RWA.Hitesh Puri, chairman, Chandigarh Residents’ Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED), said he would request the MC and UT market committee to resolve the issue.When questioned, the vendors said they were compelled to increase prices as wholesale mandis were charging more, a claim refuted by an official of the UT market committee. “Some vendors without passes buy vegetables and fruits from middlemen who overcharge them and they pass on the costs to customers,” said an official who did not wish to be named.PLEA TO REINTRODUCE CTU BUSESMeanwhile, Ajay Jagga, member, District Consumer Protection Council, has written to UT adviser Manoj Parida asking that CTU buses continue to sell farm produce even after easing of the lockdown. “The CTU as well as the market committee benefited from the arrangement. The presence of an official on the bus will ensure that vendors won’t hike their rates,” he said.Parida’s response, however, was that the buses were used earlier since markets were closed, but now with easing of restrictions, people could go to mandis to buy what they wanted. The buses had to be operated as public transportation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fruit-and-veggie-vendors-have-hiked-rates-complain-customers-in-chandigarh/story-wapXMUo3sn5AuvErJpNCSI.html
25-05-2020||City||Train to ferry 1.6K migrants to Kerala cancelled from Thane at last minute||A Shramik special scheduled to ferry 1,600 migrants from Thane, Mumbai and Navi Mumbai from Thane to Ernakulam in Kerala was cancelled a few hours before the scheduled departure at 6pm on Sunday, prolonging the workers’ wait to return home. The Central Railway (CR) officials blamed the cancellation on the lack of coordination between the state and Kerala governments.“The train was ready to depart for Kerala, but it had to be cancelled after a request from their government,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, CR, Mumbai. “According to the Thane collectorate, the train had to be cancelled as the Kerala government did not give consent for it on the grounds of non-availability of e-pass,” said a senior official from CR.The list of 1,600 passengers was made by representatives of the Malayalee community, based on the request of migrants. The train was the first scheduled service between Thane and Ernakulam, as the previous one departed from LTT, Mumbai.“The passengers from Thane, Vasai, Andheri and Navi Mumbai travelled to the station at least three-four hours early to complete the formalities such as medical test and verification. Around 2pm, the passengers were told the train had been cancelled,” said Shashikumar Nair, general secretary, All Thane Malayalee Association. “I reached the station, with my two children and a friend who is five-months pregnant. A few days ago, we got an inquiry call from the gram panchayat office in my village, Kaiparambu, in Thrissur district in Kerala. Late on Saturday, we got the confirmation about the train,” said Shreeja Shaji, 36, a resident of Vasai. “We were told the Kerala government cancelled the train due to lack of quarantine facility. It was so disappointing to hear this, as a few days ago the Kerala government said they are equipped with a quarantine facility for four lakh migrants,” added Shaji.“As soon as we learned about the cancellation, we informed around 60% of the passengers who were on their way to Thane station,” said Nair.A group of six women from Andheri, in the 22-25 age group, who were worked at an ayurvedic centre, said they are clueless about the future. “We have lost our jobs. After our train was confirmed, we vacated our rental homes. Now we don’t where to stay,” said one of them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/train-to-ferry-1-6k-migrants-to-kerala-cancelled-from-thane-at-last-minute/story-t96WkjL7YXReV70515U6pM.html
25-05-2020||Mumbai||Maha allows 50 flights to operate to and from Mumbai||The state government on Sunday allowed the operation of 50 flights to and from Mumbai from May 25, ending the uncertainty over the resumption of domestic flights in Maharashtra. Mumbai is one of the six cities selected by the civil aviation ministry for starting domestic flights. “We have decided to start flight operations from Mumbai. Initially, 25 flights each for landing and take-off will be allowed to operate from the city. Operations will be increased gradually,’’ said state minority affairs minister Nawab Malik. The Mumbai International Airport Limited (MIAL), which operates the Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport (CSIA), confirmed the same. “Starting May 25, 2020, CSMIA will resume 25 commercial passenger flight movements on departure and 25 on arrival,” said the MIAL spokesperson.However, a senior civic official from the city said they are yet to receive a standard operating procedure to follow from the state government, while there is no clarity on how passengers will commute. The decision came hours after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray publicly expressed reservations on resuming commercial domestic operations in Maharashtra, considering the sharp rise in Covid-19 cases. He said that he was not keen allowing interstate movement as there would be rise in cases in the state. Before that, Thackeray also spoke to Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri, requesting him to allow only minimal flights in the state. The state government has also informed MIAL that they will provide all possible assistance for smooth start of operations, but in a phased manner.“Today, I spoke to the aviation Minister, Hardeep Singh Puri. I told him let us get an estimate of things. We don’t want this lockdown to go on for five years. We also want to start flights, but we need to find out certain things, such as how will passengers come? What precautions will you take, how many employees would be needed at the airport, if it is supposed to begin etc.,” Thackeray said in a live address on Sunday. He also added that the state is working on a plan to allow interstate movement. However, even though 50 flights will resume from Monday, there is no clarity on how passengers estimated at around 27,000 daily (as per estimates by MIAL) will commute from the airport to their destinations. Public transport, including taxis, buses, app-based cabs are not permitted in the city. Inter-district commute is also not allowed. As such, the commute of airport and airline staff also poses challenges. It was not clear from which part of cities they will commute and whether it falls in containment zones, which have total movement restrictions, said a senior government official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.Earlier, on Sunday morning, state home minister Anil Deshmukh also openly criticised the decision of starting domestic flights in red zones. He said that opening of airports in red zone is extremely ill-advised as it will be add stress on these zones. Mere thermal screening of passengers is not adequate. With maximum Covid-19 cases across the country, Mumbai is currently in the red zone.P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner, said, “We are yet to receive a standard operating procedure to follow from the state government. Basic preparation will be screening of passengers and a stamp for home quarantining them. Passengers will have to manage their own commute and in exceptional cases, the airport operator will be making arrangements. Everybody will be allowed to go home with a stamp.”For passengers who will be arriving for a short visit in the city, the BMC officials will not stamp them, while considering the number of days they are on a visit. BMC officials said that the only concern is about passengers who might have their houses in containment zones, for which an SOP from the state government is awaited.The commencement of operations from Mumbai is subject to the following conditions mandated by the state government: Guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare are strictly adhered to; all arriving passengers shall be hand stamped at the airport for 14 days home isolation and for self-monitoring their health; all passengers are required to make their own travel arrangements to and from airport; airlines shall verify that the addresses of passengers are not from the containment zones; passenger manifest containing detailed contact addresses and mobile numbers of all arriving passengers shall be submitted by airlines,at least six hours prior to the flight’s arrival time, to MIAL for submission to the BMC Commissioner, said a senior official, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-allows-50-flights-to-operate-to-and-from-mumbai/story-mpJe2AWMyrawoRfU5C1eDI.html
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||Now, PGIMER’s cardiology dept to give nod to reimbursement claims via post||With full fledged OPD services at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research yet to reopen amid the Covid-19 lockdown in the city, the institute’s department of cardiology has decided to approve reimbursements via postal services.Patients requiring nod for medical reimbursement claims have been requested to send their original bills with photocopies of discharge booklets/OPD card, last follow-up details and contact number in registered stamped envelope; along with a self-addressed envelope (address to be written in bold and capital letters) with postal stamps. After all logistics have been completed by the department, the signed bills will be sent back via registered/speedpost within seven to 10 working days.This will help in curbing the spread of Covid-19 and save money required for travelling, hospital officials said. Patients facing difficulties procuring medications can get the issue addressed by the institute. This is applicable to all cardiac patients who are getting follow-ups at the department of cardiology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-pgimer-s-cardiology-dept-to-give-nod-to-reimbursement-claims-via-post/story-GtVFjzrbDoBrnx43oEj4jP.html
25-05-2020||City||No fresh Covid-19 case in Mohali for 14 days||Besides not a single active Covid-19 case left, there has been no fresh infection reported in Mohali district for the past 14 days. The last case was reported on May 10 while the two remaining patients were discharged on May 21.In the past two months, the district has recorded 105 Covid-19 cases, of which 102 people defeated the virus while three succumbed.In the past two weeks, the health department has been taking around 100 samples from the entire district every day, but all have tested negative so far.Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said: “We have to wait for 14 days after the last positive case to declare the district virus-free. Although there is no active case now, people should not assume the deadly disease has been fully contained and eradicated. If we adopt a careless attitude and do not take precautions, the disease can strike back.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-fresh-covid-19-case-in-mohali-for-14-days/story-swlK3bDJlK6vVakGOlYumM.html
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||IIT Ropar develops anti-microbial coating for PPE kits, fogging sprays||A research team from Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Ropar comprising Narinder Singh, C Raman Suri, Harpreet A Singh and Amanpreet Singh have developed noble synthetic materials for anti-microbial coatings on personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, sprays for disinfecting tunnels and fogging purposes.According to Singh, these materials are non-volatile in nature, with no foul smell and possess very high anti-microbial activities and show high shelf life on different metallic and non-metallic surfaces.He said the team has developed two types of coatings: Hydrophilic and hydrophobic. Therefore, one can use them based on the area of application. Hydrophilic materials are primarily meant for fogging and spraying on walls; while hydrophobic are specifically designed for coatings on PPE kits, hospitals and furniture.He added that the materials have excellent physico-chemical properties, and they can be used in a broad range of temperatures under varied environmental conditions.Singh said the team had tested the materials against broad range of microbes and established the mechanism of action of materials. Singh said the institute is filing the IPR and several private companies have already contacted the institute and technology is transferred to E2H Technologies LLP under non-exclusive licensing.He added that the institute would provide the non-exclusive technology transfer to other companies as well and the team was also developing rapid test kits for the diagnosis of Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/iit-ropar-develops-anti-microbial-coating-for-ppe-kits-fogging-sprays/story-GDeu0Li2M1glPjOOARSIRM.html
25-05-2020||Mumbai||Drug addict held for friend and sadhu’s murder in Nanded district||A 25-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly murdering his friend and a sadhu (seer) in Nagthana village of Nanded inside an ashram early on Sunday. Sainath Lingare, who is a drug addict, was arrested around eight hours later within the Tanur police station limits along the Maharashtra-Telangana border, the police said. According to the police, as per their preliminary inquiry, it has been discovered that Lingare wanted to break inside the ashram and steal money and had asked his friend Bhagwan Shinde, 50, to be an accomplice. When refused to be an accomplice in the crime, the accused strangled the victim and dumped his body in the ashram’s bathroom. He then entered the room of the sadhu, Swami Rudra Pratap Maharaj, 33. When the seer woke up, Lingare threw chilli powder in his eyes, which he had carried with him, and before the victim could raise an alarm, the accused strangled him, the police said.“Lingare then dumped Maharaj’s body in a car and tried to flee but his vehicle dashed into the ashram gate. Hearing the noise, the other sadhus, who were sleeping on the ashram’s terrace, came down, said Anantre,” said inspector Ashok Anantre of Umri police station at Nanded.Lingare had parked his friend’s bike at his home near the ashram. He took the two-wheeler and managed to flee. The others in the ashram informed the police about the murders, following which they began investigations. “We had alerted the police in the neighbouring districts and shared Lingare’s picture with them based on eyewitnesses’ statements. Around 4pm, Lingare was nabbed from Tanur area, Vijaykumar Magar said, superintendent of police, Nanded district, said. “Lingare is a resident of Nagthana village and is a drug addict. He was charged for murder around 10 years ago, but he was a minor then. He had killed a man along with his father. He also has a case of car theft against him” said police inspector Ashok Anantre of the Umri police station. During the inquiry, we learnt that Lingare and Shinde had met each other at a zilla parishad school, around 700 metres away from the ashram. Lingare has been booked under sections 302 (murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender), 452 (House-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal code (IPC).“We are trying to ascertain how much money has he robbed from the ashram,” said Anantre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/drug-addict-held-for-friend-and-sadhu-s-murder-in-nanded-district/story-aVAoLisEHbzDty3BN9SfmK.html
25-05-2020||Mumbai||‘Politics during Covid not our culture’: Thackeray slams BJP||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday put his former ally Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in his line of fire for playing politics while the state government is battling against the Covid-19 pandemic. Two days after BJP staged a protest against the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA), Thackeray, in his address to the state on Sunday afternoon, said that his government will not indulge in politics “as it does not suit the culture of Maharashtra”. The CM added that Covid-19 cases in the state are likely to increase by May end. Since last week, the state is recording over 2,000 new cases daily, but the Centre’s projection that Maharashtra would have around 1.25-1.50 lakh cases has not come true. Thackeray said that the state is prepared to tackle the surge in cases.“These are testing times, nobody should indulge in politics now. Even if you do, we will not because the people of Maharashtra have faith in us,” Thackeray said.“I have honestly said the Centre is helping us. But GST refund is yet to reach us, should I make it an issue? Earlier PPE kits were not coming. There is still a deficiency in the supply of medicines. We are yet to get the money for the trains...Just playing politics for the sake of it does not suit the culture of Maharashtra...” the CM said.The BJP, led by former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, had staged Maharashtra Bachao (Save Maharashtra) agitation on May 22 and demanded a financial package worth Rs 50,000 crore for farmers and daily wage earners.In a veiled jibe at the Opposition party, Thackeray said that the state government is not going to announce “empty packages” but do “actual” work. “Some people are asking why have you not announced a package? Till now many packages [by the BJP] worth crores have been announced. They are packaged nicely but when you open, it is an empty box. The MVA government does not announce empty packages,” he said. Following Thackeray’s address, BJP leader Ashish Sheler took to Twitter and said, “The CM says first they will defeat corona and then announce package. This is like saying giving water to someone after he dies. He earlier said they would defeat corona before monsoon, now he says numbers are going to increase. Earlier he said Central team has given no projection, now he says numbers are lower than their projection. Sir, daily the direction and speeches are changing. Who is he actually telling not to do politics? To MP Sanjay Raut and minister Jayant Patil?”Thackeray also outlined the state government’s steps taken for the people and migrant labourers including widening the scope of Shiv Bhojan scheme, following up with the Centre to give food grains for people who do not have ration cards, Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Aarogya Yojana, etc. He said that 5.5 to 6 lakh migrant workers have been provided food till now.“The public insurance scheme gives 100% free treatment to all. This is a package, should we announce it and advertise or should we keep working?” said Thackeray. The CM added, “Cases will increase. We have created hospital infrastructure for it. By the end of May, we will make 14,000 beds available. We already have 7,000 beds, including 3,000 in our field hospitals.”The CM also said that he has sought more time from the civil aviation ministry to prepare for the resumption of domestic air travel in the state. “Today morning I spoke to [Hardeep Singh] Puri and told him that let’s get an estimate… of how the passengers would come; what measures would you [Centre/ministry of civil aviation] take, what measures do we [state government] would need to take. If we have to reopen the airport, what would be the required of staff, etc,” he said.A tweet by the chief minister’s office stated that Thackeray spoke to Puri on the resumption of domestic flights: “He [Thackeray] communicated his views that till the time MIAL plans and fine tunes airport operations, they should initiate minimum possible domestic flights from Maharashtra from May 25th which are purely emergent in nature like for international transfer passengers, medical emergencies, students, and cases on compassionate grounds.”Thackeray said that imposing lockdown immediately and lifting it in a go is akin to “putting axe on both your feet”. He said that just as the state went into a graded lockdown in March, the lifting of the lockdown would happen gradually. He hinted that there could be more relaxations after May 31, when the fourth phase of the lockdown ends.The CM also appealed to people to celebrate Eid inside their homes and not come on the streets. “Several exemptions have been made but it’s important not to crowd shops when they open. We will still need to follow instructions. Congregations, religious functions are still not allowed. Celebrate at home to emerge out of this situation in a better and effective way,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/politics-during-covid-not-our-culture-thackeray-slams-bjp/story-mtV82k6XCNBu0XgSm4l9dN.html
25-05-2020||City||One arrested, 7 booked for assaulting man at housing society in Panchkula||A man has been arrested and his seven booked for allegedly assaulting a 26-year-old man at a housing society in Sector 24, Panchkula, on Sunday. The man arrested has been identified as Vikas, a native of Jind, Haryana, and currently living in Sector 27, Panchkula. Complainant Mohit Sheokand told the police that on Saturday night, his mother and he were out for a walk in the society complex, when two men– Vikas and Amit Mor, arrived in a car at the main gate and started hurling abuses at him.Later, the duo entered the society premises with iron rods and attacked him, Sheokand alleged. Police said as per the complaint, seven to eight accomplices of the accused then attacked his father and brother with iron rods and sticks. Investigating official, assistant sub-inspector Rajbir Singh, said as per the complainant, one of the accused snatched his iPhone and gold chain during the commotion.“The complainant said the accused had a fight with him on May 8 as well, but they later reached a compromise. The attack seems to be a fallout of the enmity between them,” Singh said. A case has been registered against eight persons under Sections 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence commit¬ted in prosecution of common object), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 323 ( voluntarily causing hurt), 379-B (snatching and use of force), 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrong¬ful restraint) and 506 ( criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code at the Chandimandir police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-arrested-7-booked-for-assaulting-man-at-housing-society-in-panchkula/story-ki0her2suwPEuvdUBzqE9M.html
25-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra crosses 50k after over 3k new infections||In the biggest one-day spike in coronavirus disease cases, Maharashtra recorded 3,041 new infections on Sunday. The state has now reported 50,231 Covid-19 cases. Mumbai, the worst affected city in the state, reported 1,725 new cases on Sunday, breaching the 30,000 marked. The death toll in the state currently stands at 1,635, after 58 deaths were reported on Sunday. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said, “We have got a lot of success in the fight against Covid-19, however it is going to get tougher, because there might be more deaths. There would be a rise in cases, however, there is no need to be afraid, we are prepared for that and are arranging more beds for the same and upgrading our health infrastructure.”The CM also said that the lockdown was likely to be lifted in a phase-wise manner after May 31.Meanwhile, the state has requested assistance from the Kerala government.“We request you to provide 50 specialist doctors and 100 nurses on temporary basis. These MBBS doctors will be paid ~80,000 per month and specialist doctors will be paid ~2 lakh per month, nursing staff will be paid ~30,000..,” a letter issued by Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research to Kerala health minister KK Shailaja, stated. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-breaches-50k-mark-with-record-spike/story-yjLmK3nM107cUto9nPBbyM.html
25-05-2020||Mumbai||City records highest minimum temp on a May day in 4 years||The city on Sunday recorded its highest minimum temperature for the month across the past four years, while maximum temperatures in the Vidarbha region escalated further, resulting in severe heatwave conditions.The minimum temperature at the Santacruz weather station, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, was 29 degrees Celsius, 2 degree Celsius above normal. The Colaba weather observatory recorded 27 degrees Celsius, close to the normal mark. Moisture levels were high as Colaba and Santacruz recorded 85% and 72% humidity on Sunday.The highest minimum temperature during May did not cross 29 degrees Celsius between 2017 and 2019. During May 2016 it was 29.2 degrees Celsius, while 29.7 degrees Celsius was recorded in May 2015 and 2010.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said high moisture incursions from the sea and cloud cover during early hours of Sunday led to the rise in minimum temperatures. However, the day temperature was closer to the normal mark as Mumbai recorded 33.8 degrees Celsius.Meanwhile, four districts in the Vidarbha subdivision recorded day temperature sabove 46 degrees Celsius. On Sunday, the maximum temperature in Nagpur further increased to 46.7 degrees Celsius. Chandrapur recorded 46.6 degrees Celsius, Akola, 46.1, and Gondia 46 degrees Celsius. The IMD has declared an orange alert (be prepared) for heatwave conditions for the entire Vidarbha region till May 27, which directs citizens to stay hydrated and avoid outdoor exposure. A yellow alert has been issued for districts of Marathwada till Monday.For a second consecutive day, Nagpur was the second-hottest location in India, while Churu, Rajasthan, was the hottest at 47.4 degrees Celsius, according to IMD’s bulletin issued at 9pm. Chandrapur was the third hottest at 46.6 degrees Celsius.Nagpur was the second hottest location in India on Saturday at 46.5 degrees Celsius.The authorities sounded a red category alert for Delhi, Haryana, Punjab, west and east Rajasthan on May 25 and 26 for heatwave or severe heat waves. A red category alert implies authorities should take action to avoid health emergencies.Heatwave conditions are very likely to persist for the next 4-5 days with peak intensity on May 25 and 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/city-records-highest-minimum-temp-on-a-may-day-in-4-years/story-W7Gm6CuGMUEk1vcHihTVDJ.html
25-05-2020||Mumbai||Govt college medical students allege they are being discriminated over accommodation||Medical students from government colleges working with Covid patients have alleged that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has refused to accommodate around 90 resident doctors from St George Hospital in hotels. They claimed that they had to wait for hours on the road after their duty to find alternative accommodation. The state medical department had arranged for the West End Hotel at Marine Lines for the resident doctors who are on duty at St George Hospital, which has been converted into a Covid hospital. On May 20, six-seven government resident doctors went to the hotel to stay, but the BMC officials did not provide them accommodation there, the students have alleged. “They didn’t let us in stating that the hotel is reserved for BMC staffers on Covid duty and had asked us to leave. We had to wait on the road from 2pm to 4pm, after which we were informed that we had been given alternate accommodations at Bengal Hotel,” said a second-year postgraduate student. However, when they reached Bengal Hotel, BMC officials cited the same reason and asked them to leave. “Then we had to go back to our hostel and stay with resident doctors who had not been on Covid duty, thereby risking their chances of infection,” said the student. The students have also alleged that unlike BMC officials, they have been given cheap hotels without proper ventilation. “We feel suffocated when we enter the rooms. Also, the bathrooms aren’t cleaned properly,” said another resident doctor. The students have written letters to the collector seeking proper accommodation. “BMC doctors are getting five-star hotels such as the Taj, while we get unhygienic hotels. We are also working 24/7 and risking our lives. So, why are we being discriminated?” said a student.An official from St George Hospital informed that the decisions of the government medical colleges are taken by the city collector, while for medical colleges under BMC, the responsibility is undertaken by the civic commissioner. Dr Ramesh Bharmal, director of medical education, BMC, said, “The hotel accommodation is different for the students of BMC and the state government. I am personally not aware of such an incident. But will look into it.”Dr TP Lahane, director of the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) did not respond to HT’s calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/govt-college-medical-students-allege-they-are-being-discriminated-over-accommodation/story-8whaZmAcHid5Lxs0HpdkxM.html
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh co-op housing: Members can use expired permissions for registration||Members of cooperative housing societies who could not execute sub-conveyance, sub-lease deed or sale-deed despite getting permission due to the Covid-19 lockdown have been allowed to use their expired permissions for registration.In the order, the registrar of UT cooperative societies stated that due to lockdown, the applicants or members of the society who were granted permissions to execute sub- conveyance, sub-lease deed, sale-deed, could not execute the same and it led to the expiry of the permissions.The order stated that to sort out the matter and avoid unnecessary rush, it had been decided that all permissions issued by the office of the registrar will be treated as valid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-co-op-housing-members-can-use-expired-permissions-for-registration/story-aPbE2OUp6WfXy7Sp5P630J.html
25-05-2020||Mumbai||City sees 6.6% rise in Covid-19 cases over last week: BMC||The average growth rate of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai from May 16 to 22 has been 6.61% according to data released by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Sunday.Eight administrative wards, in particular, witnessed a higher growth rate of more than 8%, indicating that these wards would need stricter containment measures and greater participation from citizen groups for observing social distancing norms.In comparison, between May 5 and 11, the average growth rate of the city was at 6.7%.N ward (Ghatkopar) tops the list for the highest growth rate at 13.7%, followed by P North ward (Malad) at 11.9%, T ward (Mulund) at 11.9%, P South ward (Goregaon) at 10. 9%, S ward (Bhandup) at 10%, R South ward (Kandivli) at 9.4%, R Central ward (Borivli) at 8.9%, and F South ward (Parel) at 8.2%.For each ward, the average growth rate is derived by calculating the average daily growth rate in Covid-19 cases in a ward over seven days.In a press release issued on Sunday, BMC stated, “We are monitoring the Covid-19 average growth rate in each ward in addition to the doubling rate. It helps to immediately identify a rise in cases in particular wards, which may be low-risk wards.”Meanwhile on Sunday, Mumbai crossed the 30, 000 mark with the daily count rising by 1, 725, taking the total number of cases to 30,542. The city’s death toll is inching towards the 1,000 mark with 39 deaths on Sunday, taking the total fatalities to 988.BMC officials had projected that the total number of cases in the city will go up to 40, 000 by May end. Daksha Shah, deputy executive health officer, said, “We are trying to bring growth rate down in all wards. Our key focus is micro mapping and identifying areas where new cases are reported and trying to contain the number of cases there.”As of Sunday, the total cases of Covid-19 in G North ward (Dharavi-Mahim-Dadar), reached 2,077. There were 27 new cases reported along with two deaths in Dharavi. Officials from the ward office say that they are identifying a maximum of people and isolating them. Meanwhile, Mahim’s count reached 317 with 11 new cases, and Dadar reported nine new cases on Sunday, bringing the total for the area to 219.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/city-sees-6-6-rise-in-covid-19-cases-over-last-week-bmc/story-edVQB3828nGpws77iquayN.html
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||Frequent interstate travellers won’t be home-quarantined: Mohali deputy commissioner||Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said frequent interstate travellers who need to commute often for professions requirements, including salespersons, transporters, doctors, journalists, business executives, engineers, traders and consultants will not be home-quarantined, as per protocol issued for persons coming to Punjab from other states.Issuing these directions as per the advisory of the health department, Punjab, the DC said that such people will be issued passes by the deputy commissioner and SDMs. They will have to give an undertaking regarding self-monitoring their health and inform the district administration if they show any symptoms of Covid-19 such as fever, dry cough, and difficulty in breathing. They must download the COVA mobile application and remain active on it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/frequent-interstate-travellers-won-t-be-home-quarantined-mohali-deputy-commissioner/story-sOox0ozZ3TrdCF7vEaAUyI.html
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||21K liquor bottles recovered from Gujarat-bound milk truck in Chandigarh||Police nabbed a 34-year-old man for carrying nearly 440 boxes (21,120 bottles) of illegal liquor in a milk truck.The accused, Gaurav Khatri, a resident of Phase 5 in Mohali, was ferrying the liquor in a milk tanker that was bound for Gujarat, a dry state.Acting on a tip off on Sunday, inspector Ranjit Singh set up a trap near Industrial Area Phase 1, police said.“Due to lockdown, the milk tanker provided a perfect cover for smugglers to transfer illegal liquor. This consignment was bound for Gujarat. The truck had ‘milk not for sale’ written on its front and rear side. The emergency number written on the vehicle was also fake. The whiskey bottles were labelled as crazy Romeo whiskey quarters,” said Rajeev Ambasta, deputy superintendent of police (DSP, crime branch).Khatri was booked under Section 61/1/14 of the Excise Act. Police are trying to identify other people involved in the business.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/21k-liquor-bottles-recovered-from-gujarat-bound-milk-truck-in-chandigarh/story-UyQDnlgqHMG333QjH8pN1I.html
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||Water supply to be hit in Chandigarh on May 25||Water supply in Chandigarh will remain partially disturbed on Monday. While morning supply will be normal, there will be no supply in the afternoon and the evening supply will be at low pressure.The disruption has been attributed to emergency shutdown for erecting a tower on the 220kV Kharar- Mohali line from 10am to 6pm, due to which there will be no regular pumping of raw water from Kajauli to Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/water-supply-to-be-hit-in-chandigarh-on-may-25/story-g0wJb21443cBQMs722GpjL.html
25-05-2020||City||Cidco defers water charge hike by 6 months after residents’ protest||The City and Industrial Development Corporation (Cidco) has decided to defer the rate revision of water charges for the next 6 months in Cidco area of Navi Mumbai due to Covid-19 pandemic.The decision comes in the wake of many complaints by the consumers regarding inflated water bills for the month of February and March without any prior intimation regarding the increase in the bill.Cidco supplies water to Kharghar, Kamothe, Roadpali, Kalamboli, and New Panvel.Several housing societies from Kamothe and Kharghar received an inflated bill. The residents allege that there has been a two-fold increase in the bill amount from the previous bills.The city-based activist also raised the issue of the increased bill on twitter.Ranjana Sadolikar who heads citizen’s Unity Forum, Kamothe, said, “At this point of time when the entire country is going through a financial crisis it is unjust to increase the water bills by the developing body. I raised the issue with Cidco as well as tweeted about the problem and tagged chief minister’s office, home minister, Anil Deshmukh, guardian minister, Eknath Shinde among many. Cidco then rolled back their decision and have decided to implement the increase after six months.”“The increased water bill came as a big surprise for everyone as there was no prior intimation regarding this,” said Sadolikar.Priya Ratambe, public relations officer, Cidco said, “The revision of water charges has been deferred for next months in Cidco area of Navi Mumbai.”“The decision of rate revision of water charges was of January 2020 and implemented in the billing cycle of Feb-March 2020. This rate revision was done after 15 years considering the procurement of water and maintenance charges of supply equipment’s,” said Ratambe.She further said, “However considering the pandemic, Cidco has decided to defer the rate revision of water charges for the next six months. Though no revised bills will be issued, the settlement will be done in the next billing cycle as per old rates.”Suresh Sadolikar, secretary Vrundavan Park, Kamothe said, “ We got a message from Cidco to pay the water bill of Rs 1,17,009 on or before May 31 against water charges for months of February and March, our previous bill was only Rs 5,1247. I hurriedly called Cidco officials who said that the rates have been increased in a slab wise manner from February 20.”“None of the societies was given any circular regarding the increase in water bill hence, we argued with officials terming it unjust. We also said that it was unjust to increase the bill at this critical point,” said Sadolikar.“There is a two-fold increase in the bill from the past water bill for the same consumption due to an increase in the rate for water charges from Rs 7 per cubic meter to Rs 20 (slab wise) per cubic meter. However the increase rate will not apply for the next six months,” said a Cidco official.The residents who were surprised at the sudden inflated bill are of the view that as of now they are not in a position to take the financial burden hence, the developing should have considered the circumstances first.Similarly, Subham Rane, committee member, Exotica society said, “We were shocked to get a double bill of around Rs 3 lakhs instead of Rs 1.05 lakh towards the water charges of society. I immediately complained about the issue to the Cidco officials who assured that issue will be looked in,”“Later on I got an intimation that the bill amount was as per increased charges, but the increased charges will be applicable after six months. We are relieved for now at least,” said Rane. Residents are also of the view that Cidco should first improve the quality of service, bridge the gap between demand and supply then think to increase the water charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cidco-defers-water-charge-hike-by-6-months-after-residents-protest/story-dF4FckmRpUl9mLbqDcZvnJ.html
25-05-2020||City||Ambulance driver dies, kin to get ₹75 lakh||A 57-year-old ambulance driver of Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) hospital at Vashi died of Covid-19 on Sunday.Municipal commissioner Annasaheb Misal said, “We have decided to pay compensation of Rs 50 lakh to his family under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package insurance scheme for health workers of the central government and another Rs 25 lakh from NMMC’s workers’ welfare fund. We will also offer a job to one of his family members.”Navi Mumbai reported 85 new cases on Sunday, taking the total case count to 1,646. Ten children are among the new cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambulance-driver-dies-kin-to-get-75-lakh/story-95KNY0WWsKvgqKbwOqRsRI.html
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||Mercury inches towards 42°C amid heatwave alert in Chandigarh||Maximum temperature was recorded at 41.7°C on Sunday, and is likely to cross 42°C this week amid a red alert for heatwave in Chandigarh on Monday and Tuesday.India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said, “Till now maximum temperature hasn’t risen 4 to 5 degrees above normal, a condition required to declare heatwave in the city. However, it is likely to rise on Monday and Tuesday and is expected to start coming down by Thursday as a western disturbance is approaching.”Officials have advised residents to stay indoors this week, especially during afternoons. The maximum temperature of went up from 41.4°C on Saturday to 41.7°C on Sunday, while the minimum temperature went up from 25.6°C to 25.7°C. In the next three days, the maximum will remain between 43 and 44 degrees, while the minimum will be between 25 and 26 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mercury-inches-towards-42-c-amid-heatwave-alert-in-chandigarh/story-it6wNHEsVHg0jy7N4t7ZBO.html
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||Epicentre Bapu Dham Colony accounts for 72% of Chandigarh’s total cases||One month after the first Covid-19 case was reported in Bapu Dham Colony on April 24, the area, which has since become Chandigarh’s epicentre, now accounts for city’s 72% positive cases.Of the total 262 cases confirmed in the city since March 18, when UT’s first case came to fore, 189 are from the congested colony in Sector 26, which has 2,500 multi-storey houses.While the curfew was lifted in most of the remaining city on May 3, Bapu Dham Colony continued to be sealed. But there have been 146 more cases since.Sporadic testing, scattered use of institutional quarantine and poor enforcement of social distancing norms within the containment zone are behind UT administration’s failure to break the chain of infection in the colony, say health experts. Residents trying to sneak out of the colony, while even clashing with cops on duty, are another challenge.QUARANTINE AND SOCIAL DISTANCINGA senior epidemiologist at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), not wishing to be named, said the consistent rise in cases made it clear that violation of the quarantine rules was rampant in the containment zone.“Declaring an area as containment zone is not only to isolate a certain population from the city, but to also ensure that the residents within the zone practice social distancing. Infection spread in Mohali’s Jawaharpur village was apparently restricted because residents adhered to social distancing and quarantine within the village. That is missing in Bapu Dham Colony,” said the expert.An internal report prepared by Chandigarh Police had recently flagged violation of social distancing in Bapu Dham Colony as people were freely roaming even during the night curfew.A report by five experts from different departments of PGIMER also suggested that colony residents, irrespective of their health status, should be quarantined at some different location as was done in the case of Dharavi in Mumbai. However, the administration’s efforts in this regard were too little, too late.Two quarantine facilities were set up at girls’ hostel number 8 at Panjab University and Government Model School, Raipur Kalan, only on May 22, when the number of cases in the colony had reached 147.“We have seen family members of several positive cases interacting freely with their neighbours and roaming around. By using institutional quarantine early, this could have been avoided and the infection chain broken,” said Varinder Pal, a resident living in the containment zone.TESTING PICKING UP ONLY NOW From April 24 – when the first surfaced in the area – till May 18, only 569 people were tested in the colony, out of which 128 residents were found infected.On May 22, the UT health department scaled up testing, and decided to test all residents living in the same building as positive persons. Since then, 272 residents have been sampled at the sampling centre set up in the colony itself.“The testing has not been aggressive. Most people live in one-room dwellings and the administration has practiced the same approach as that for well-organised colonies. Testing of not only close contacts, but also of immediate neighbours is important here. What they are doing now, should have been done when the number of cases was inching towards the 100 mark,” the PGIMER epidemiologist said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/epicentre-bapu-dham-colony-has-72-of-chandigarh-s-total-cases/story-FZGwaEMPtGuArNouJQ3bDN.html
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||15 arrested in Chandigarh for not wearing masks, released on bail||Chandigarh Police on Saturday arrested 15 persons for not wearing masks at a public place.The accused were booked under section 188 (disobeying orders duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and later released on bail. Under this section people can be imprisoned for about six months or pay a fine extending to Rs 1,000 or both.Police said the arrests were made after registering 10 different cases across the city, including three at the Sarangpur police station, two in Sector 19 and one each in Industrial Area, Mauli Jagran and sectors 34, 36 and 39.About 274 persons have been arrested in 235 cases for not wearing masks when outdoors.Since March 23, police have registered 654 cases and arrested 960 persons under section 188 of IPC. Commenting on the matter, senior superintendent of police(SSP) Nilambari Jagadale said, “The strict drive against those flouting compulsory safety norms will continue and anybody found without a mask will be booked.”The UT administration had issued orders on April 9 this year that anybody found without a face mask at a public place will be arrested.This was done to prevent the spread of Covid-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/15-arrested-in-chandigarh-for-not-wearing-masks-released-on-bail/story-GF1DdPlAGEUgTDPI5wKQIN.html
25-05-2020||Gurugram||Foreign returnee tests Covid-positive in Faridabad; tally now at 208||A 52-year-old woman, who returned to Faridabad from London on May 16 and was lodged in a quarantine facility, tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Saturday.According to the district administration, this is the first instance of foreign returnees found to be Covid-positive in the district. Officials said upon her return, she was placed under quarantine in a three-star hotel in Faridabad. Thirteen new coronavirus cases were reported from the district on Sunday, taking the district’s tally to 208. Yashpal Yadav, deputy commissioner, Faridabad, said that during her 14 days’ quarantine period, her samples were taken again and she has tested positive. “We have shifted her to a room in a hotel in Faridabad and have placed her in isolation,” he said.He said there are 221 foreign returnees in Faridabad who had landed in Delhi this month and were placed in quarantine in different hotels in the city.“Ten people were shifted to Sonipat, two were shifted to Nuh, four to Jind, and 61 to other districts. Ten people were released after they completed their 14-days’ quarantine period,” said Yadav.The health department said a total of 134 people are currently in quarantine ward in ESIC Medical College and Hospital, out of which 110 tests were conducted and one woman was found to be positive.According to officials, the district has so far recorded 208 cases of coronavirus, of which 115 people have recovered. The administration last week had added 12 new areas to the revised list of containment zones, while two zones in the district were de-notified after no Covid-19 cases were reported from these areas in the last 28 days.The deputy commissioner further said, “We had sent the samples of 9,288 people, of which 208 tested positive and the results of 550 are awaited. At least 80 people are currently hospitalised.”The infected people have been admitted to the ESIC hospital, officials said, adding that at least 9,285 people are under home quarantine in the district and 7,449 people are on surveillance for influenza-like illnesses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/foreign-returnee-tests-covid-positive-in-faridabad-tally-now-at-208/story-IMEexCaEfadHoflKGFnehO.html
25-05-2020||City||Angry over affair, Ambala man kills elder brother||Five days after a 35-year-old man was found dead at a house near Tangri river in Ambala, the police on Sunday arrested his younger brother who confessed to murder.The accused was identified as Gaurav, a labourer in his late 20s, who had earlier said that his brother Ravi had died by falling from his bike on Tuesday late night. Police said their father had lodged a similar FIR. Gaurav told the police that Ravi, also a labourer, had been in an affair with their paternal aunt for the last three years. She was a mother of four girls and wife to an alcoholic, police said, adding that Gaurav had cautioned Ravi against the relationship on multiple occasions.On Tuesday, the brothers got drunk and got into an argument. Police said Gaurav hit his elder brother with a heavy object, and later took him to a hospital but the doctors declared him dead.Mahesh Nagar station in-charge Jaswant Singh said, “We have recovered the evidence including the heavy object and blood-stained clothes. We arrested Gaurav and presented him before a court, which sent him to judicial custody.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/body-found-in-ambala-younger-brother-confesses-to-murder/story-QU857XiuxYjGJ4e77XfubL.html
25-05-2020||Delhi||AAP decries ‘ugly politics’ after High Court approves of audit||New Delhi: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of indulging in “ugly politics” during a health crisis, pointing to an order by the Delhi high court that refused to scrap the state government’s Death Audit Committee and said it was following guidelines “in full letter and spirit”.A plea filed the All India Lawyer’s Union last Thursday alleged that the Delhi government’s data about the number of persons suffering from and dying of the deadly pathogen was incorrect, and had asked for its audit committee, which certifies all Covid-related deaths, to be scrapped.On Friday, a bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan, while refusing to issue any direction against the committee, said the whole case of the petitioner was “based upon presumptions and surmises as the same has been filed on the basis of some newspaper reports without any proper research” and “there is no doubt that members of the committee are experts in their subject and field”.In its four-page judgment, uploaded on the website on Saturday, the court said, “……It further appears that on the basis of the guidelines issued by the Central government, the data is being collected from the hospitals in a proper format. It also appears that the respondents [Delhi government] have constituted a Death Audit Committee on April 20, 2020, for auditing the data in question received from different hospitals in Delhi and thereafter publish the same…There is no doubt that the members of the committee are experts in their subject and field. There seems to be no arbitrariness or discrimination being done nor is there is any material to show false fabrication of data in question being published by the respondents.”Reacting to the judgment, Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday tweeted, “I am glad that honourable Delhi High Court has put an end to ugly politics being played by some opposition leaders on such a sensitive issue. Delhi govt is providing correct figures related to Corona every day to the people.”AAP national spokesperson Raghav Chadha said, “After high court order declaring Delhi government’s Covid death figures correct, BJP should apologise for playing politics over the dead. The Delhi high court has noted that the Death Audit Committee is a competent authority comprising of experts. It rejected the plea seeking its scrapping. The High Court finds no arbitrariness or discrimination, no false fabrication of data. The BJP chose to do dirty politics even in the time of such massive health and humanitarian crisis.”The BJP, which is the ruling party in all the three municipal corporations in Delhi, said the death figures quoted by its leaders are based on information available with the civic agencies.Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, said: “The BJP didn’t go to the Delhi high court in this regard and we don’t know what facts were placed before the court in this matter. We are not doing politics. We have just stated the facts based on the information provided by the three municipal corporations. If the Delhi government thinks that the information provided by the municipal corporation is wrong, then they are free to take action against the corporations.”He added that the death figures was cited by the government’s own doctors. “The Delhi government should come out with datewise and hospital-wise data about Covid-19 deaths. This will put the matter to rest. People of Delhi have the right to know the truth.”While BJP leaders said they respect the Delhi high court order, they stood by the claims made by the corporations.Jai Prakash, the standing committee chairman, North Delhi Municipal Corporation said the “figures we have stated are based on the information collected by our officials from the cemeteries and cremation grounds” and that there have been 350 cremations and burial as per Covid-19 protocols in the region, “of which close to 272 were confirmed cases”. Bhupinder Gupta, chairman of South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s standing committee, said: “Our figures are based on the reports provided by the hospitals. We have had 381 dead bodies cremated or buried in our facilities. If we go by the Delhi government data, are the doctors at the hospital lying?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-decries-ugly-politics-after-high-court-approves-of-audit/story-2BfnJJsGqPxTFqLa3U6z4J.html
25-05-2020||Delhi||Squabble over use of 100W bulb ends in tenant’s death in Delhi||A petty argument over the use of a 100 watt bulb between a homeowner and his tenant took a violent turn on Friday when an e-rickshaw driver died after he was allegedly slapped by his landlord and, while reeling from the impact, his head hit the wooden armrest of a sofa, police said.The e-rickshaw driver, 35-year-old Jagdesh from Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh, lived in the house for the last two years with his wife, Varsha, and their eight-year-old daughter.The homeowner, Amit, has been booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder, under Section 304 of the Indian Penal Code, and has been arrested, said Ved Prakash Surya, deputy commissioner of police (north-east). “Jagdesh would drive a rented e-rickshaw to make a living. His wife is a homemaker. During the lockdown, they had not been earning anything, but they didn’t go back to Aligarh as we have no work back home. Jagdesh was expecting work to resume soon,” said a second senior police officer familiar with the case who asked not to be named. They paid a monthly rent of ₹5,000, which included the electricity bill. “Their owner of the house is a blacksmith, and he too hadn’t been earning anything either during the lockdown. He wanted to keep the electricity bills low to save money,” the second officer said. According to the police complaint, at around 7pm on Friday, Amit walked up to Jagdesh’s flat and found his wife using a 100 watt bulb. “He got angry with me for using that bulb. I tried to tell him that I needed more light for cooking, but he removed the bulb and left,” Varsha said to the police in her statement. She also alleged that Amit was drunk at that time, but police could not substantiate this allegation.According to Varsha, Amit returned with a bulb that consumed less power sometime later but began scolding her again. “My husband who was lying down on a broken sofa placed on the terrace at that time asked him not to scream. That made Amit angry. He walked to the terrace and slapped my husband hard,” she alleged. As per the allegations made by Varsha, the slap caused Jagdesh to fall, and his head to hit the wooden armrest of the broken sofa. “He fell unconscious. I sought help from a relative to take him to GTB hospital in his e-rickshaw,” said Varsha in her complaint. Jagdesh succumbed to his injuries on Saturday at the hospital. The police quoted a doctor as saying that he died of head injuries. Amit was arrested shortly afterwards and his statement recorded. According to the police, he said that he wanted to lower power consumption, as he was financially distressed due to slowdown in business.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/squabble-over-use-of-100w-bulb-ends-in-tenant-s-death-in-delhi/story-5FxXBCcedbMU3ShjlPQIWM.html
25-05-2020||Delhi||Containment zones to hunger centres, 13k volunteers lend Delhi a helping hand||In November 2019, 26-year-old Dheeraj Kapoor and 33-year-old Naveen Kumar were new civil defence volunteer recruits deployed by the Delhi government at a busy traffic intersection in south Delhi. They were there to ensure that private vehicles with odd and even registration numbers ply on alternate dates adhering to the government’s fortnight-long road space rationing strategy.However, as the authorities eased the restrictions of the nationwide lockdown, implemented to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), with time, the city police reduced its deployment on Covid-19 duty in a phased manner and returned to regular law and order duties. This led to the district administration relying more on civil defence volunteers since May 4, remarked several district magistrates that HT spoke to. There are 13,000 active volunteers on duty. The government needs at least 10,000 more volunteers immediately and at least 25,000 more in the next few months as businesses, commercial activities and public transport resume operations, and the number of positive cases continues to spike, senior government officials said on condition of anonymity.Currently, Kapoor works full-time in one of the 87 Covid-19 containment zones in the city – from manning barricades that seal the area to ensuring doorstep delivery of essential goods. Kumar works in one of the 1,800-odd hunger centres run by the city government, which feeds around 500 people twice a day.“In the last few months, I have witnessed quite an unexpected journey – from manning vehicles on odd-even days and volunteering for election duty to helping victims during the north-east Delhi riots and now Covid-19 management,” Kapoor said over the telephone.“From manning barricades in containment zones and providing essential goods to the residents of sealed areas to distributing ration and cooked meals at hunger centres, helping the police maintain law and order, and ensuring social distancing at railway stations and liquor shops, civil defence volunteers in Delhi have been playing a major role since the day the nationwide lockdown was imposed (March 25),” Delhi’s revenue minister Kailash Gahlot said.Delhi’s chief secretary Vijay Dev said, “In the next few days, we are looking forward to more volunteers joining our ranks as the city resumes normalcy with the functioning of business, commerce and public transport.”There are almost 46,000 volunteers registered with the Delhi government, according to a senior official with the revenue department. They are not bound by an employment contract and are entitled to emolument of around ₹730 for a day’s work when engaged in duty, he said. “Of the 46,000, around 13,000 are active volunteers. Others have not reported for a long time. We have deployed them in containment zones, food distribution centres, screening centres, shelter homes, quarantine centres, etc.,” the official in charge of the civil defence registration process said, requesting anonymity. However, a total of 25,000 volunteers are needed for effective Covid-19 management, he added.The official said that civil defence volunteers are needed throughout the year and the government occasionally publishes advertisements in newspapers to inform potential volunteers of that. The minimum age requirement is 18 years and there is no bar on the maximum age.Delhi currently has a sanctioned strength of 237,938 civil defence volunteers, according to records of the Union home ministry.The recruitment official in Delhi government said, “To ensure social distancing, especially in public transport, the government plans to deploy more volunteers. We need at least 25,000 volunteers in the next few months as more businesses, commercial activities and public transport are expected to further restart operations.”According to Jugal Kishore, the head of the community medicines department in Safdarjung Hospital, “Community participation plays an important role in public health initiatives. It can help change perception and aid in the effective implementation of rules and regulations for the welfare of the community if the volunteers are trained well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/city-s-civil-defence-volunteers-on-the-frontlines/story-OvWwu4KVDvDLpO11m7C8fK.html
25-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi weekly markets still shut, vendors say ‘lack of clarity’||Even as markets across the city were allowed to open up in a staggered fashion last week, Delhi’s street vendors said a lack of clarity on the state government’s part has kept them from resuming weekly markets. While Delhi government officials said weekly markets could reopen, provided they ensured social distancing, police said civic agencies would need to give them permission.With social distancing now obligatory in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, street vendors’ associations, some resident welfare associations (RWAs) and market associations demand that the government demarcate dedicated vending zones, in accordance with the Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act, 2014. Usually, vendors in weekly markets usually line up their carts and shops in packed lanes, right next to each other, and attract large crowds, making ensuring social distancing a task.The exact number of weekly markets in the Capital and vendors associated with them is not known. In fact, civic agencies are yet to begin surveys to identify genuine vendors in Delhi as per the Street Vendors Act. Street vendors are still to reopen their shops even in popular markets like Connaught Place, Karol Bagh, Sarojini, Lajpat Nagar. While some vendors in smaller local markets have reopened businesses, confusion is still writ large.Rajiv Kumar Gupta (45), head of a weekly market in east Delhi’s Madhu Vihar, said local authorities have asked them to wait till at least May 31. “There are 100-odd vendors in the weekly market we used to set up in Madhu Vihar, Mandawali, Vinod Nagar and other places across the week. We have now been told to wait till May-end,” Gupta said.While the Delhi government’s order regarding relaxation in lockdown norms in the fourth phase explicitly mentions that markets can open, following an ‘odd-even’ arrangement, it does not mention weekly markets and street vending. However, the order also reads that all commercial and industrial activities that are not specifically prohibited by the guidelines will be allowed in the city. “Everyone is interpreting the order differently. As there is no mention of a ban on street vending or weekly markets, we thought we are allowed to operate. But we have been asked by the police not to start work. The government should have clearly stated the rules for street vending and weekly markets like it has done for markets areas,” said Satish Kumar, a street vendor in Karol Bagh market and a member of the area’s Town Vending Committee.Vendors in Karol Bagh said they are unsure whether they can set the weekly market up on Monday or not. Likewise, vendors in Narela are yet to restart weekly markets.Senior police officers meanwhile said civic agencies needed to permit the operation of weekly markets, and added that the daily restriction on movement between 7pm and 7am would be a hurdle.Deepak Purohit, DCP (west), said, “They haven’t got permission from civic agencies yet. So, only the main shops are opening right now in the manner ordered by the government. But vendors providing essential products like vegetables and fruits were never stopped in the first place.”Monika Bhardwaj, DCP (north), said it is not possible to allow weekly markets since they generally operate in the evening, when complete restrictions on movement, except essential services, are in effect. “They are unable to operate because the lockdown comes into effect at 7pm everyday, which is around the time weekly markets open,” she said.A senior Delhi government official aware of the matter said street vendors can start work, but have to ensure social distancing, and adhere to the odd-even sequence. “As for weekly markets, civic agencies have to devise a mechanism to ensure social distancing,” the official said. Another senior government official said there weekly markets can operate provided social distancing is ensured, but also said it was up to civic bodies to ensure a social distancing mechanism.The National Association of Street Vendors of India (NASVI) said municipal agencies should start work at developing dedicated vending zones.Arbind Singh, national coordinator, NASVI, said, “The creation of dedicated vending zones in the National Capital is long-pending demand. It should have been done immediately after the Street Vendors Act was passed in 2014, but it is even more important now as social distancing has to be ensured.”The New Delhi Traders Association (NDTA) in Connaught Place has also requested the Delhi government to relocate vendors from the market as it is “impossible to ensure social distancing”, said Atul Bhargava, president, NDTA.RWAs in the city, too, said vendors and weekly markets are important in residential areas, but agreed there was a need to regulate them to prevent the spread of the disease. “We are all interdependent. Weekly markets cater to a large population, but there is a need to regulate them and provide dedicated space,” said Atul Goyal, president of URJA, an association of RWAs in Delhi.Civic agencies, meanwhile, said they are yet to decide on the matter. The North Delhi Municipal Corporation has called a meeting next week to discuss the issue. “Vendors are important and cater to a large population. We have called a meeting to discuss how we can streamline vending in our jurisdiction and ensure social distancing, especially in weekly markets,” Jai Prakash, standing committee chairman, north corporation.The South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s mayor Sunita Kangra said, “It is difficult to maintain social distancing in weekly markets. We are not planning to give permission to weekly markets immediately. But we are trying to work out a way so that these markets can operate while ensuring social distancing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lack-of-clarity-social-distancing-troubles-keep-delhi-s-weekly-markets-from-resuming-business/story-qH3IvkHx0V3ZhD4pFS58FK.html
25-05-2020||Delhi||No quarantine for asymptomatic passengers landing at IGI airport||New Delhi: The Delhi government has decided to go with the Centre’s standard operating procedure (SOP) for domestic flights arriving at the Indira Gandhi International Airport from Monday, when operations resume in parts of the country. This means passengers who land in the National Capital and are asymptomatic will not require quarantine or isolation. On Sunday, Delhi’s chief secretary Vijay Dev issued an order directing all concerned authorities to “ensure compliance” to guidelines issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare.The annexed guidelines in the order — which HT has seen — said, “Asymptomatic passengers will be permitted to go with the advice that they shall self-monitor their health for 14 days. In case they develop any symptoms, they shall inform the district surveillance officer or the state/national call centre (1075).”It said, “Those found symptomatic will be isolated and taken to the nearest health facility. They will be assessed for clinical severity in the health facility. Those having moderate or severe symptoms will be admitted to dedicated Covid health facilities and managed accordingly. Those with mild symptoms will be given the option of home isolation or isolated in a Covid care centre…”Though the Centre allowed states to prepare their own SOPs, the Delhi government chose to abide by the guidelines broadly drafted by the Union ministry, Dev confirmed on Sunday.Several states have rolled out stricter rules for arriving passengers. Karnataka, for instance, will mandatorily quarantine people coming from worst-affected states, while Himachal Pradesh and Mizoram said they will allow only residents who were stranded elsewhere to return. Maharashtra, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu had till Saturday opposed the decision to restart flights. On Sunday, aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri and officials from his department held several meetings with other states to convince them to allow services to resume. For departures, Delhi has drafted protocol that covers areas including the airport entrance, the area outside the terminal, baggage scanning, check-in, security check and waiting area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-quarantine-for-asymptomatic-passengers-landing-in-delhi/story-2BXRGIqKkgL0fQJwoByKOK.html
25-05-2020||Delhi||First case of Covid-19 in Tihar Jail as assistant superintendent tests positive||The first case of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Tihar prison complex was reported on Saturday. An assistant superintendent of Jail Number 7 tested positive for the virus on Saturday, prison officials said. The official had got himself tested on Friday. The prison’s director-general Sandeep Goel said, “His test results arrived Saturday. He was asymptomatic but the test results showed he had the virus.” The official lives in the staff residential complex near the prison. “Contact tracing at his workplace (Jail No.7) and residence is complete. It has revealed one member of the jail staff as a close contact and five others as casual contacts. The five casual contacts include two prison officials and three jail inmates,” Goel said. At least nine residents (all prison officials) of the residential complex where the officer lives have also been told to quarantine themselves at home. Jail officials said that after the contact tracing process was over, the close contact was tested for Covid-19. His result is awaited. He is quarantined at home. The two casual contacts (members of the jail staff) are also quarantined at home. Meanwhile, the three inmates (casual contacts) have been kept in the isolation barrack. The prison department has turned single cells inside the prison into isolation wards. According to jail authorities, new prisoners are lodged in a separate sub-jail (number 2) for 14 days. They are shifted to other parts of the jail and allowed to lodge with other prisoners after completing the 14-day quarantine period. Goel said that all the contacts are presently asymptomatic and their medical condition will be monitored. This is the first case inside the Tihar prison complex, which is also the most crowded prison in the country. Until the nationwide lockdown, implemented on March 25, Tihar had around 13,000 prisoners. Currently, there are around 9,500 prisoners. As part of the measures to decongest the prison, the government released around 3,000 prisoners on interim bail and parole. The prison department has also cancelled the biweekly visit of inmates’ families to contain the spread of the virus. With the lower courts closed, the prisoners’ hearings are held via video conferencing from prison. Rohini jail, which has around 1,200 prisoners, has reported 18 Covid-19 cases, while Mandoli jail, where around 3,000 prisoners are lodged, has one case so far. In all the 20 Covid-19 cases found in the three jails, all the patients remain asymptomatic, according to jail authorities. All jail superintendents are on high alert after learning how the virus spread rapidly inside Mumbai Arthur Road jail, leading to at least 180 officials testing positive within a week, even though the jail houses less than 4,000 prisoners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/first-case-of-covid-19-in-tihar-jail-as-assistant-superintendent-tests-positive/story-o8o3Tn7f5da0OutxWzqKqK.html
25-05-2020||Noida||Eid in lockdown: Cops on alert||With Eid being celebrated amid the lockdown, on Monday, the Gautam Budh Nagar Police is on alert. This is despite the fact that the police and clerics all over the district had previously mutually decided to forgo the festivities this time.Places of worship in Gautam Budh Nagar had closed down even before the nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24. Section 144 of the CrPC has also been implemented in the district, under which the gathering of more than four people is banned.However, to ensure that there are no violations, the district police remain vigilant.“We are on alert, and extra force and QRTs have been deployed all across the district. However, we do not anticipate any issues. We had met the clerics before alvida jumma (last Friday of Ramzan) and they believe that in the current scenario, festivities must take a back seat,” deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Sankalp Sharma said.The commissioner of police had also visited mosques and met clerics on Friday to assess the precautions being taken. Shops around Jama Masjid in Sector 8, Noida’s largest mosque, remain closed as they are part of a containment zone. The police are encouraging people to follow the norms of social distancing. “The priority right now is for the country to overcome this pandemic. No prayers are being offered at the masjid for over two months now and we are asking the public to celebrate eid at home,” Salim, a cleric at the Nithari masjid, said.The district has more than 140 mosques and shrines; there are around 40 in the city area and more than 100 in Greater Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/eid-in-lockdown-cops-on-alert/story-TEONVdvo7zhUt4MyYr58kJ.html
25-05-2020||Noida||Realtors to employ migrant workers returning home, submit proposal||The Uttar Pradesh (UP) government has accepted a proposal by real estate developers to employ thousands of migrant labourers who have returned from other states to their home towns in UP due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic . Developers can engage 2.5 lakh labourers at various construction sites in different cities in the state, including Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway. The state government has already approved a detailed proposal submitted by the national real estate development council (NAREDCO) to turn into reality chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s promise of creating jobs for at least 50 lakh workers, who have returned to their respective home towns. The developers want the state government to support their plan to “revive the sector” facing unprecedented economic challenges.“We have requested the state government to support our plan of employing at least 2.5 labourers at various construction sites in different cities across the state. We demand that the state government should stop imposing stamp fee on buyers who wants to purchase flats in the next one year, reduce circle rates, give extra time to repay housing cost dues, along with other benefits,” said RK Arora, Uttar Pradesh president of NAREDCO, a developers’ group.The developers are likely to meet the finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to submit their proposal regarding the restructuring of their business loans, reduction of interest rates on home loans to customers, and a reduction of interest rates to project loans to developers, along with a host of other demands.“We have requested both the state and Centre to take steps to revive the real estate sector. We will seek assistance from Centre and request the state government to accept some of our demands,” said Arora.In Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway, there are at least 600 ongoing realty projects. A total sum of ₹50,000 crore has been invested in these projects by thousands of homebuyers, as per an estimate given by developers. “If the state government declares a zero period for a year in the state for real estate sector, then this sector will retain jobs and also create new ones. We are sure the state government will help the sector as it helps in job creation,” said Harendra Yadav member of NAREDCO. A zero period means extending a time period of one year to repay financial dues and not impose any interest for the same period. At least 60% of 2.5 lakh labourers will be engaged at different sites in Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway areas. The remaining labourers will be provided jobs in other cities including Ghaziabad, Meerut and Lucknow.The developer said that if the government will give us an additional time to finish and deliver ongoing projects and extend the validity of a sanctioned map then it will help in giving work to labourers.“Most of the labourers at our sites have left for their respective cities because they were desperate to return homes,” said Prashant Tiwari, president of Western UP confederation of real estate developers association of India (CREDAI), another developers group.The developers said that they will employ the labourers, who have returned back to their respective home towns in Uttar Pradesh and those who are in need of jobs.“We can train unskilled labourers and engage them in work easily at our sites. We will set up training centres at the sites, skill them and employ them. Skilling the mason, the bar bender and the security worker does not require much time,” said Arora.“Our government is committed to provide jobs to those who have returned to their homes. Employing these workforce is a priority and the developers’ plan is productive as it will engage people in different jobs. The state government will soon take this proposal to the next level and will do the needful,” said Satish Mahana, UP industry minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/realtors-to-employ-migrant-workers-returning-home-submit-proposal/story-259DkOmZCQXhInFlRFDa5L.html
25-05-2020||Noida||Liquor sellers demand relaxations from government||Liquor sellers of Noida — citing losses due to the extended closure of shops owing to the lockdown — have appealed to the state government for relaxations in license fee for the days shops were shut. The liquor store owners have also alleged that they were being compelled to buy a minimum fixed quota of liquor.A letter addressed to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, which has been signed by 63 liquor store owners of Gautam Budh Nagar, stated that liquor vends had been facing losses, especially in the countrymade liquor category. The excise department, however, has been compelling them to pick up stocks on par with that of last year, despite a low demand. The sellers further also demanded that the basic licence fee of all shops should be refunded for the days during which they were shut for the lockdown. Some stores, they said, continue to remain shut in the containment zones.“Liquor shops had been facing losses, as number of customers have dropped. Yet we are being compelled to pick up stock equal to that of last year. We have already faced losses and thus are not in a position to buy stock more than what we will sell. The major impact is in the county liquor category, whose primary consumers are migrant labourers, most of whom have left for their hometowns,” said a liquor seller .Sellers also stated that while adequate stock and variety of liquor is being ensured, certain premium brands are yet to be supplied.According to officials however, there was no obligation on sellers to maintain a certain amount of stock. Officials said that representatives of state liquor sellers have met officials in Lucknow and handed over a memorandum to the excise commissioner’s office.“There is no such obligation on sellers to buy a certain amount of stock. Also, I am unaware of any demand of reduction in licence duty fee. Representatives of liquor sellers have met senior officials in Lucknow,” said RB Singh, district excise officer.Meanwhile, even as excise officials said that older stock of liquor will be sold at the printed rate, a number of customer complained of over-pricing.“Many vends are selling at prices higher than the maximum retail price (MRP). For a bottle of beer worth Rs 150, they charged Rs 170,”said Kartik Sharma, a Noida-based techie who went to a liquor shop in Sector 43. Another customer at Gheja village said he had to pay Rs 40 over the MRP per beer bottle.“For 180ml white rum, the printed price was Rs 140. But they charged Rs 180. We don’t know who to complain to,” said Avnish Mishra, another Noida resident.Officials, however, said that liquor was being sold not at a higher price but at revised rates.“We have not found any such cases of liquor being sold at price higher than the MRP. The new stock coming from the distilleries have updated MRP, while the stock supplied with old price was updated by the sellers as directed by the department. Most of the sellers were also asked to paste a new sticker with fresh rates,” said RB Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/liquor-sellers-demand-relaxations-from-government/story-HILtt4RXbqJI4TP74oy5JK.html
25-05-2020||Gurugram||Eid under lockdown: Residents skip shopping, help migrants with food||With the country set to celebrate Eid-ul-Fitr on Monday, Muslims in the district, are preparing to mark the festival in a muted manner with restriction in place due to the outbreak of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). In a departure from the usual norm, the festival will take place without mass congregation prayers as mosques remain closed in view of the ongoing lockdown.Eid-ul-Fitr marks the end of the fasting month of Ramzan and is expected to be a low-key affair this time with people planning to stay at home and celebrate with immediate family members. While restrictions having eased considerably in the current phase of the lockdown, most people said that they were either planning to stay indoors or spend time sharing food and resources with people belonging to lesser privileged sections of the society.Arshad, a Nuh resident, said that the usual excitement surrounding the festival was missing due to the threat of the pandemic.“We have not done any Eid shopping this year. Family members, including children, will be wearing their old clothes. These are tumultuous times but throughout the month of Ramzan, people made the efforts to take care of each other. Fruits and water have been arranged daily for migrants who are crossing the region. We are planning to continue with the practice on Eid as well,” said Arshad, who goes by his first name.Mohd Arif, a social worker, has been distributing food and ration kits to people travelling back home to their states on the KMP (Kundli-Manesar-Palwal) Expressway since the past week. “We are preparing vegetarian biryani for distribution among those who travelling back home and providing them with a food kit for the rest of their journey. The food kit includes grams, biscuits, and energy drinks. We are also providing them with masks and Dettol,” said Arif.Arif said that Eid too would be spent catering to the needs of people and providing them with food and water in the heat. “People have been walking on foot to reach their villages in other states. They are in dire circumstances and helping them will remain our priority even on Eid,” said Arif. He said that other residents were also pitching in with support and providing bananas and water bottles to passers-by.Rakshanda Fatima, a resident of Sector 52, said that the biggest change this year would be people performing Eid namaz at home. “We will be performing the Eid prayers at home this year. There will be no going out and meeting friends. No parties,” said Fatima, who usually travels to her home town Lucknow for the festival but would not be doing so due to the lockdown.She said that venturing out was too risky with new containment zones being notified every other day. “In our neighbourhood, a society was recently declared as a containment zone. The best precaution is to stay at home. We have not stepped out for Eid shopping either. There is a no point,” she said.Mufti Mohammed Saleem Qasmi, president of the Gurugram unit of Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind, has appealed to residents and asked them to celebrate the festival at home with family. “The circumstances this year are different. We are under lockdown conditions due to which there are restrictions. Some shops have opened up with the easing of restrictions, but we need to remember that shops have been opened for necessary purchases and we should not indulge in unnecessary shopping. The month of Ramzan was marked with simplicity this year and we should continue the same practice for Eid,” said Qasmi.Qasmi said that with mosques not being open to the public, Eid prayers could be offered at home as per norms with family members. “People should at home and spend time with family members. We should ensure that people do not step out unnecessarily at the cost of health. In the absence of the requisite number of people needed for Eid namaz, people could offer Chasht namaz,” said Qasmi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/eid-under-lockdown-residents-skip-shopping-help-migrants-with-food/story-UmkeciHC065dvqXDvQiFcP.html
25-05-2020||Gurugram||Nine new Covid-19 cases in Gurugram; total count reaches 271||Nine new cases of coronavirus disease or Covid-19 were reported in Gurugram on Sunday. These cases were reported from areas such as Rajendra Park, Sector10 A, Rajiv Nagar, Sector 22A, Jharsa, Nai Basti, Pataudi and Aanaj Mandi. The number of persons infected with SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) in the district has reached 271, out of which 164 have been discharged while 105 are undergoing treatment. In Rajendra Park, till now, three cases have been reported, while in Sirhaul over 20 Covid-19 cases have been reported, said health department officials. Sirhaul has been declared a containment zone.According to district health bulletin, the case reported from Rajendra Park was in close contact with a positive case reported earlier. Areas, such as Sector 10A, Rajiv Nagar, Sector 22A, Jharsa, Naye Basti, Pataudi and Aanaj Mandi have reported one case each.As per the district health bulletin test results for 278 samples are awaited. At least 10 people are currently under surveillance at a quarantine facility while 15 Covid-19 patients are under home isolation after being confirmed positive. Health department officials said that out of 271 cases, at least 100 cases are linked to Delhi.Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer (CMO), said that they have sent samples of 11,823 people so far. “214 samples of people were received from government labs and 62 were received from private labs. We have collected 276 samples on Sunday from different places and close contacts of the people who have tested positive,” he said.According to officials, more than 350 international passengers have arrived in Gurugram in recent days. The travellers have been kept under quarantine in different hotels. Based on their symptoms, the health team has been taking samples.Meanwhile, five patients were discharged in Nuh, making it a Covid-free district. Virender Yadav, CMO, Nuh, said this is the best gift for the people on Eid. “We had been strict in laying down rules. The civic agencies carried out sanitisation of the city in a phased manner,” he said.District administration said they had formed 289 teams, and action was taken at the field level by the administration, in coordination with the police. A detailed contact tracing exercise was carried out, and the epicentres and the hot spots were identified and sealed. A house-to-house survey was done and a containment strategy was put in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/nine-new-covid-19-cases-in-gurugram-total-count-reaches-271/story-4SB1nckZ2wBzHsrx7fjQRM.html
25-05-2020||City||No new Covid-19 case in Ludhiana for second consecutive day||In more good news for Ludhiana residents, no fresh cases was reported from the district for the second consecutive day on Sunday. Deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said that no new positive case has come to fore in the last 24 hours. He said that Ludhiana’s current tally of Covid cases is 179, excluding the 86 patients who are from other districts or states. At present, there are only 37 active cases in the district.The DC said that as many as 135 patients have been discharged from district hospitals after treatment. The district has so far seen seven Covid-19 deaths, apart from five from other districts or states who died here while undergoing treatment.IN HOME QUARANTINEThe DC further said that till date as many as 6,184 persons have been kept under home quarantine in the district and at present, the number of such persons is 2,343. On Sunday, 113 persons were sent into home quarantine.TESTING Stating that the district administration and health department promptly sends samples for testing as soon as any suspected case comes to the fore, DC Agrawal said that till date, a total of 5,904 samples have been taken, out of which reports of 5,651 has been received while 5,386 reports came out negative and 253 samples are pending. He said that on Sunday, samples of 162 suspected patients were sent for testing.He appealed to the residents to follow all directions of the Punjab government and help flatten the curve by staying indoors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-new-case-in-ludhiana-for-second-consecutive-day/story-vMD74yd7gPxIPktai3NGpO.html
25-05-2020||City||Away from family, Ludhiana nurse celebrates birthday with colleagues||Rubina, 37, a staff nurse at the Mother and Child Hospital located behind the Virdhman Mills here, had some moments to rejoice as hospital authorities celebrated her birthday in the hospital here on Sunday.Like several paramedical staff, deployed at isolation centres, who are at the forefront in the fight against coronavirus, Rubina, who stays in the hospital, and has been away from her 10-month-old son as she has not visited her house for the past two months. Rubina’s paternal aunt and her husband are taking care of the child in Jalandhar.Dr Amita Jain, senior medical officer (SMO) of the hospital, said Rubina had been deployed in the Covid-19 unit since March 21, the day when lockdown was imposed.She has not visited her home since then out of fear of becoming a virus carrier and endangering loves of her family and has been staying in the hospital, the SMO added.“Today morning, we learnt about her birthday. So, we decided to celebrate the occasion. Rubina cut the cake and the staff complemented her for her exemplary sacrifice. Not many women can put duty over family. Rubina is one among them. So, we decided to congratulate and eulogise her for what she has done,” said Dr Jain.An elated Rubina, talking over phone, said it was a moment of joy for her. She said, “My son was only eight-month-old when I left home and joined duty here two months ago. Being away from family is not easy. I miss my son a lot and often video chat with my family to catch a glimpse of my son. I can see him. but not touch or feel him. On my birthday, I prayed to God to put an end to the pandemic soon, so that I can meet my son.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hospital-celebrates-birthday-of-staff-nurse-away-from-10-month-old-son-for-two-months/story-sGo6lb6j4ahnJJM7jMvUHM.html
25-05-2020||City||SAD seeks probe into distribution of food material sent as central relief to Punjab||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has urged Union consumer affairs, food and public distribution minister Ram Vilas Paswan to depute a central team to investigate the alleged multi-thousand crore scam in the distribution of food material sent as central relief to Punjab and also asked state food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu to express his readiness for the probe, if his hands are clean and he has nothing to fear.Anil Sarin, chief spokesperson of the district unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), also accused the Congress government in the state of large-scale irregularities in the distribution of free grain and pulses sent to be distributed among the below poverty line families in the state.Lambasting Ashu for issuing baseless statements, SAD legislature wing leader Sharanjit Singh Dhillon said, “Once an inquiry is conducted into the scam, the massive bungling, in which a large portion of wheat and pulses meant for 1.4 crore people, comprising half of the population of the state, was diverted to Congressmen, will be out in the open. Your false bravado will then crumble and you will have to face the music.”Dhillon challenged Ashu to come out with a statement agreeing to the audit of the entire food stock as well as stocktaking by a central team.“It is obvious that you have recorded thousands of disbursal, which never took place. The stock of wheat and pulses has been shifted to residences of Congress leaders and now you are afraid of the evidence of this atrocity against the suffering poor coming out in the open. That is why, you are trying to divert the attention of the people with holier-than-thou attitude.”Dhillon, appealing to Paswan to order an inquiry into the scam, said the central ministry was already abreast of the fact that the state ministry had distributed only 1% of the food material received from the centre in April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sad-seeks-probe-into-distribution-of-food-material-sent-as-central-relief-to-punjab/story-ClcBCHDSnUlkWAK5jYVL2K.html
25-05-2020||Pune||Pune varsity to conduct written exams for final year students in July; no changes in fee structure||The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) will conduct written examinations for final-year graduate and post-graduate final year students, even as Maharashtra higher education minister Uday Samant has urged the University grants commission (UGC) to cancel all exams.The university also announced that the old fee structure will be extended by a year to provide relief to students and parents in the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. As per UGC guidelines and state government’s experts’ committee, the exams for final year students will be held in the month of July.The decision was taken at the Vidya Parishad meeting held by SPPU vice-chancellor Nitin Karmalkar on Saturday, an official said. The exams will be based on 60 per cent syllabus completed before the national lockdown. Accordingly, third year students will appear for the written exams which will be for 50 marks, with a duration of two hours.This comes two days after Samant wrote to top education body expressing difficulty in conducting the exam for final year students.While for the rest of the students, evaluation and marks will be given on the basis of earlier exams, internal marks, projects, and internships. The university has made five committees that will be responsible to prepare a plan of action to conduct these exams. SPPU’s Vidya Parishad gave sanction to this action plan and the Parishad also gave sanction to the new syllabus of the undergraduate and post-graduate second-year courses at Saturday’s meeting.“In the meeting held on Saturday it was decided to take written exams of final year students of both undergraduate and post-graduate students based on 60 per cent syllabus taught before lockdown. It will be held in the month of July and it will be of 50 marks with 2-hour time limit. Their evaluation will be done on the basis of earlier exam marks and the marks which they will obtain in this exam. While the students who have a backlog of any subject in the final year, their papers will be set by colleges and its checking will also be done by the college,” said SPPU vice-chancellor Karmalkar.According to Mahesh Kakade, director examination and evaluation board of SPPU there will be no academic loss of any of the students of SPPU and its affiliated colleges.“All the precautionary measures will be taken and lockdown rules will be followed while conducting this exam in the month of July. Soon a review meeting will be held to finalise the timetable of the exam.” Kakade said.Meanwhile the proposed fee hike of all courses in SPPU will now be extended by one year, the final decision will be soon announced after the meeting of SPPU management council.“SPPU has approved a new fee structure proposal for the courses, but as the students and parents are suffering through financial burdens due to Covid-19 lockdown it will be implemented after one year. This year according to the old fee structure, fees will be charged to the students.” Karmalkar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sppu-to-conduct-written-exams-for-final-year-students-in-july-no-changes-in-fee-structure/story-WdnH0f6WgjAv3IUEt8OCTM.html
25-05-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: Over 3 lakh smart card beneficiaries provided free ration in Ludhiana, say officials||District food and civil supplies controller (DFSC) Sukhwinder Singh Gill on Sunday said that during the ongoing coronavirus lockdown, Punjab food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department under the leadership of cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu has played an important role by staying at the forefront along with other departments.“Under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana, smart card beneficiaries have been provided 15kg wheat per person and 3kg pulses per family for a period of three months free of cost. Out of a total of 3.8 lakh smart card beneficiaries, 3.09 have already been provided the ration free of cost, while the remaining 72,402 beneficiaries will be provided the items within next 3-4 days,” he said.‘REACHING OUT TO EVERY NEEDY PERSON’The DFSC also said that they are strictly enforcing social distancing while distributing the ration among the needy and special teams have been formed for carrying out regular checking. “After some depots were caught not distributing the ration as per the government orders, supply of 18 such depots have been suspended,” the food and civil supplies official said, adding that the department officials are working hard to ensure that the ration reaches every needy person on time.Asserting that the department officials are working almost round the clock, Gill said, “Till date, more than 4.25 lakh ration kits have been prepared and distributed among the migrants and the needy during the lockdown and the work to prepare more such kits is going on smoothly.” Amid the wheat procurement season this year, around 8.85 lakh metric tonne wheat has been procured from the mandis of Ludhiana district, the official said, adding that last year, around 8.51 lakh metric tonne of wheat was procured. “Out of the total wheat procured from mandis of the district, 8.55 lakh metric tonne has been lifted and 97% of the payments have been made. The remaining payments will also be made shortly,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-3-09-lakh-smart-card-beneficiaries-provided-free-ration-in-ludhiana-say-officials/story-6LjQlZj57I5mza1eo1gwhI.html
25-05-2020||City||Ludhiana police issue 3,643 challans to lockdown violators in 6 days||The city police have issued 3,643 challans to those violating lockdown guidelines in past six days.Most of these challans had been issued for driving two-wheelers with pillion riders, roaming on roads after 7pm and for not wearing mask.On May 18, commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal had announced that the shops will be allowed to run business till 6pm and from 7pm onwards, night curfew will be in order. The drive against two-wheeler riders had begun from May 11 after Punjab director general of police had visited the city on May 10 and found residents violating the norms.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Gurdev Singh said that these challans were being issued under Section 177 of the Motor Vehicle Act. The city traffic police had also been issuing challans for wrong parking and over speeding for the last two days, he said. As per the data of the last six days provided by the police, 433 challans were issued on May 18, 401 the next day, 583 on May 20 and over 700 challans were being issued daily for the past two days. The figure of last two days, include the challans for wrong parking and over speeding.ACP Gurdev Singh said that around 50 check points had been installed in the city to keep a check on the violators. The check points were installed both by the traffic police department as well as the city police. He informed that the police will soon start issuing e-challans at five road intersections.Ludhiana ACP underlines six ‘guidelines’ going forwardACP Gurdev Singh said the people have learnt to prioritise things that are more important to them during the two months’ lockdown.“So, as we start a new chapter to learn to live with Covid19, I have highlighted six major points which one should adhere going forward. One, everyone should take all precautions issued by the health department and maintain social distancing. Second, people should stop spreading hatred and live lives with positive approach. Third, serve humanity and take care of the elderly and needy. Fourth, indulge in nature-friendly activities and fifth, stay away from drugs and help your loved ones in quitting it too,” he said.Highlighting the sixth point, he said as people started taking precautions after witnessing so many people losing lives due to the virus, they should also start taking traffic rules seriously to stay safe. I have also started a campaign on social media to spread message about importance of wearing helmet while riding two-wheelers, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-police-issue-3-643-challans-to-lockdown-violators-in-6-days/story-7ORh7OQ16B7KRHM23kVIcP.html
25-05-2020||Pune||Malegaon sugar factory worker dies after a chemical reaction, no case registered||A factory worker at the Malegaon sugar factory in Baramati was declared dead at a city hospital on Sunday after a chemical reaction at the plant.The deceased worker identified as Shivaji Lakshman Bhosale, 52, was among 13 other workers who lost consciousness after a chemical reaction.Another worker is reported to be in a critical condition as per factory officials.The deceased was a resident of Khandaj village in Baramati taluka.“He had a worker’s insurance. As per the factory act, an inspector will decide the amount that should be given and the amount will be provided to the next of kin as per the inspector’s calculations,” said Vijay Wabale, managing director of the factory.“The statements of all the workers were recorded, none of them wanted to give a complaint. Without a complaint, how will we file a case,” said deputy superintendent Narayan Shirgaonkar, sub-divisional police officer of Baramati division of Pune rural police.The deceased was among those cleaning equipment in the factory that required them to enter the deep equipment. A total of 13 people were affected in the incident, while one was provided primary treatment and discharged, the others were admitted to local hospitals.“Some people were inside and when they poured water, they suffocated and fainted. Then some went in to save them and then few others followed to save them,” said assistant police inspector Pramod Pore of Baramati police station.The police are taking the help of experts from the sugar factory to understand what had happened that led to a chemical situation that made the workers faint.However, so far, no case has been registered in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/malegaon-sugar-factory-worker-dies-after-a-chemical-reaction-no-case-registered/story-axUpIL3L3XiWFubT9VBWxJ.html
25-05-2020||Pune||Pune man booked for attempted murder of wife||A man has been booked for the attempted murder of his wife over a domestic dispute, in the early hours of Sunday.The accused also allegedly tried to commit suicide.The couple, identified as Rohit Vijay More, 31, and Manasi More, 23, are residents of Shantinagar, Vishrantwadi.The woman is a housewife and the husband works as a cook in Jammu and Kashmir, according to police.“He was home on vacation. They had earlier fights, as well as he doubted her character and suspected her to have been having an affair. This morning they had a fight over the direction of the cooler in their room,” said assistant police inspector Sandeep Yadav of Vishrantwadi police station who is investigating the case.The man allegedly complained about the direction of the cooler and asked the woman to turn it towards him. However, she turned the cooler towards their sleeping daughters which enraged him, according to the complaint filed by the injured woman’s brother.The man allegedly attacked her throat, chest, stomach, face and hands with a knife in the presence of the children and then tried to slash his own throat, according to police.“She was able to speak when we met her. The doctors are to perform an operation on her,” said API Yadav.A case under Sections 307 (attempted murder) and 309 (attempted suicide) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at the Vishrantwadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-booked-for-attempted-murder-of-wife/story-3cTC7hy8G5BjVPwrCejlLI.html
25-05-2020||City||Ludhiana-based NGOs distribute face masks among residents||In view of the coronavirus lockdown, volunteers of non-governmental organisations (NGOs) I Can Guide and Diabetes Free World distributed free face masks among 100 residents of Shivpuri on Sunday.I Can Guide founder Surinder Singh said, “Proper social distancing was followed throughout the activity. I have also been providing free face masks to the people who are visiting my clinic since the lockdown.”“We saw it appropriate to distribute free masks apart from educating the people to make it a habit at their workplaces or whenever venturing out of their homes for some emergency work,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-city-based-ngos-distribute-face-masks-in-ludhiana/story-kKQekuaZEkc4fY8EZREigL.html
25-05-2020||Pune||Most shops in Pune fail to clock-in 12 hours of business, down shutters by 4pm||The city is slowly limping back to normalcy during lockdown 4.0 with major relaxations in place in non-containment zones for resumption of businesses, however, shop owners are preferring to down their shutters before the 7pm deadline.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has given permission for non-essential shops to operate in non-containment zones between 7am and 7pm, but many are preferring to close it by 4pm either due to the instructions of police officials or on their own.Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad admitted that the administration has been getting complaints from shop owners about their establishments being asked to close down by 4pm. “I have been getting at least four to five complaints every day and I pass them on to the police commissioner for appropriate action.”Owner of Ramesh Supermarket, a grocery shop off Pune-Satara road, said that while the PMC order clearly states that shops can remain open till 7pm, police officials ask them to shut shop by afternoon. “We have been closing our shop by 3pm according to the order by police officials.” The owner, however, refused to share his name.Like Satara road, where most essential and non-essential shops except medical stores are shut by 4pm despite the 7pm order, the scene is no different at NIBM road.Police commissioner K Venkatesham said that the orders are clear. “Nobody will close shops unless they want to close on their own. If they are asked to close their shops before time, they can complain on the number 100. The shop owners can also communicate with us on 89752 83100, which is the control room WhatsApp number.”There is, however, a mixed response in major parts of Kothrud, where shops are open till 7pm on the main streets while establishments on internal roads close by afternoon. Gift articles and clothes shop owner at Paud road, Ramesh Parmar, said, “I keep my shop open from 10:30am to 7pm, but I do not get many customers these days.”The market at Paramhansnagar in Kothrud still wears a deserted look as most of the shops are yet to open. “I feel like I am starting my business from scratch, again. Shops around my establishment are yet to open,” owner of an automobile repairing centre said.Fattechand Ranka, president of Pune Vyapari Mahasangh, however, puts into perspective another reason why the shops might prefer closing earlier. “The main reason why shops are closed by police officials at 5pm is because staffers who are working at the respective shops need to reach home before 7pm as there is curfew. If they keep working till 7pm, how will they reach home before the curfew starts?” said Ranka.In Baner, which has seen very less number of Covid-19 areas, life is back to normal as most of the shops are open till 7pm.“It is good to see other shops opening up as it keeps the roads busy and the charm of Baner road is coming back,” owner of the Jayshree grocery shop said. “I wanted to purchase a scarf from a shop located on Karve road which was at 11am. However, I already had two bags of groceries and I decided to buy the scarf in the evening at 5pm, but when I came back, the shop was closed, Other shops were also closed,” said Pranita Wagh, who stays in Karvenagar.The early closure of shops may not be in consonance with PMC’s proposal to extend the public movement further till 11 pm. During a meeting with deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Saturday, the PMC commissioner said that the curfew relaxation can be extended till 1pm after May 31 when lockdown 4.0 ends. “We will decide as per the government order post May 31,” said Gaikwad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/most-shops-in-pune-fail-to-clock-in-12-hours-of-business-down-shutters-by-4pm/story-AmD9ZCELTXxEgwMT2KdRAL.html
25-05-2020||City||Raahat-The Safe Community Foundation welcomes deadline extension of HSRPs affixation||Raahat-The Safe Community Foundation chairperson Kamal Soi on Sunday welcomed Punjab government’s decision of extending the last date for the affixation of high security registration plates (HSRPs) till June 30.The decision was announced by transport minister Razia Sultana through a press release on Saturday followed by a public notice released by the office of the state transport commissioner, Punjab.Kamal Soi said they had been demanding the same from the government for a very long time. “This timely decision will help in controlling the vehicle-borne crimes to a very large extent,” he said.He also said, “In view of the coronavirus lockdown, the additional facility of affixing the HSRPs at the customers’ residences with an additional nominal fee reflects the far-sighted vision of the state government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/raahat-the-safe-community-foundation-welcomes-deadline-extension-of-hsrps-affixation/story-epBYrPDJTtLKUi04Tmdn9M.html
25-05-2020||City||CISCE students, teachers welcome introduction of project works in Class 12 English, mathematics||Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE)’s decision to set aside 20 marks for projects in English and mathematics for Class 12 students is being appreciated by the students and teachers of the schools affiliated to the .The projects have been introduced for 2020-21 academic session. Earlier, both the subjects had 100-mark question papers. But now, the theory paper will be for 80 marks while project work will have 20-mark weightage .ALREADY INTRODUCED IN CLASS 11The council has already introduced project works for both the subjects (having same weightage) in Class 11 for the present academic session.For Class 12, the project work will comprise listening, speaking and writing skills. In speaking skills, the students can narrate an experience, give a report on any school activity, express an opinion or participate in a theme-based conversation. In writing skills, the students will be asked to describe how to operate a device, cook a dish or conduct a scientific experiment or describe a sporting event, an autobiographical experience or review a television serial.In mathematics, the students can select two projects based on different topics. Some of the topics given to them are -- using a graph to demonstrate an invertible function, explore the principal value of the function sin 1x (or any other inverse trigonometric function) using a unit circle for a dependent system (non-homogeneous) of three linear equations of three variables, identify infinite number of solutions and explain the concepts of increasing and decreasing functions. A Class 12 student, Ankita Goyal, said, “This move will help the students get practical exposure of the subject and enhance their skills. I have been asked to submit a report on any school programme. This will help me improve my writing skills.” ‘WILL HELP STUDENTS GAIN IN-DEPTH KNOWLEDGE’Mathematics teacher NP Singh said, “We have given project work to the students that they can complete in June. With these 20-mark internal assessments, the students will be able to score more and gain an in-depth knowledge of the concepts.”Principal of Sacred Heart Convent school, Sector 39, Sherin Thomas, said, “Amid the coronavirus lockdown when students are under stress, the move by the council came as a soothing balm and it is certainly going to make studies more practical and full of creativity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cisce-students-teachers-welcome-introduction-of-project-works-in-class-12-english-mathematics/story-aVgucZeYE5wdIBnsgGGlGN.html
25-05-2020||City||Wife, 2 children kill man after he tries to rape minor daughter in Ludhiana||A 40-year-old man was allegedly strangulated to death by his wife and two children after he tried to rape his minor daughter on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, in Ludhiana’s Sundar Nagar area.The man, who was allegedly in an inebriated condition, had threatened to hang himself with a cable wire if they stopped him from raping the daughter, who is 15 years old. In a fit of rage, his wife, along with 20-year-old son and daughter, strangulated him with the same cable. On being informed, the Daresi Police reached the spot and initiated investigation.Police have arrested the woman and her two children on murder charges. The body was sent to the civil hospital for post-mortem.‘STEPDAUGHTER HAD COMMITTED SUICIDE AFTER RAPE’As per the police, the deceased was a building contractor and was already another rape charge. In 2014, the man had allegedly raped his stepdaughter following which, a case had been registered. He was arrested and lodged in jail for six months but later, the family arrived at a compromise and he was let off. However, after he came out of the jail, his stepdaughter committed suicide. HAD RAPED SISTER-IN-LAW TOO BUT NO CASE WAS REGISTEREDThe accused had also reportedly raped his wife’s sister, a few years ago. No complaint was had lodged in this regard, however, she never visited the house after that.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, North) Gurbinder Singh said the man had got married to the accused woman 21 years ago. It was her second marriage and she had a daughter from her first marriage. The couple has three children-- two sons, aged 20 and 12, and a daughter aged 15.The ACP said that all accused have been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-woman-kills-husband-after-he-tries-to-rape-minor-daughter/story-EmCHsV86buS768sS2ePReO.html
25-05-2020||Pune||Flying instructor booked for sexual harassment in Baramati||A flying instructor at a Baramati based aviation institute was booked for sexual harassment by Pune rural police, an official said on Sunday. The accused, according to police, is a certified flight instructor working with the academy. The complaint was first raised in February this year, by a 20-year-old student who was undergoing training at the institute. Her complaint led to another girl coming forward with a similar complaint during the same month against the instructor.“As per Vishaka guidelines, an internal complaints committee (ICC) was appointed and they have received complaints from two students so far. Due to the lockdown, the proceedings were put on hold. However, the ICC will conduct a due process,” said Hemlata Nilakhe, human resource official at Carver institute where the instructor works.According to the complainant, when she first spoke up against the instructor, it was forwarded to the senior level.“The institute officials later started asking me whether I wanted to raise the issue and make it big or end it here. I got scared at that point,” said the 20-year-old.As per the complainant, during a training session on February 2 and February 3, the accused held her hand while she was training to fly an aircraft solo. He kept repeating the misbehaviour during daily sessions and touched her thighs before she told him that she was uncomfortable, according to the complaint.On February 5, the accused allegedly touched her chest which prompted her to raise the issue with other staff.“I was asked to do a preliminary inquiry. My inquiry purpose was only fact-finding. Two girls had spoken to me. The second girl’s complaint was on a day when the institute was shut. There was insufficient proof about the claims made by the complainant as well. I had suggested further inquiry in their claims,” said deputy superintendent Aishwarya Sharma, sub-divisional police officer, Daund division of Pune rural police, who spoke to the girls before the case was registered.“Only the flight on February 2 was logged. But I have proof that flights happened on February 3, 4, and 5 as well even though they were not logged in. Unlogged flying is a common practice as long as a certified instructor is with you,” said the complainant.“There was a third girl as well. She was taken back home by her parents after she reported the incident. Even on days when the institute is shut, practice sessions can take place,” said a source from the institute.A case under Section 354(a) (sexual harassment) of Indian penal code was registered at the Baramati police station on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/flying-instructor-booked-for-sexual-harassment-in-baramati/story-l3HLLjpFZeKyx2soKvN4aJ.html
25-05-2020||Pune||Pune police ensure Satara road’s pre-dawn market is locked down||Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham has ordered local police to patrol and take strict action against people who do not follow social distancing norms. This comes after HT, on May 23, reported how social distancing norms were flouted on a portion of Satara road which has turned into a full-fledged wholesale market during the wee hours.After Market Yard shut its operations hundreds of traders and retailers dealing in the sale of vegetables, fruits, food grains and other commodities come to the Satara road market that begins at 3 am and closes by dawn.Accordingly on Sunday when HT visited Satara road at 5am, a change of picture was noticed. While earlier the traders parked their vehicles on both sides of the road from Laxminarayan chowk to Padamavati chowk, on Sunday, no trucks were seen. Though 10-15 vehicles came to unload their materials, the police officials present on the spot, did not allow them to do so.Though the traders moved from Satara road, they shifted their business to other connecting roads like Bibvewadi road. It was only after the police intervened, that the traders moved out.“It is unfortunate that people are coming out in large numbers and no maintaining distance. Despite efforts of the frontline workers, the virus will be hard to defeat, if such activities continue to take place. Overcrowding is a risk to everyone’s life. The civic body must give the traders an alternate arrangement to carry out their business. It’s good that police department has now started taking action on them.” said Preetam Gandhi, chairman of Vishwagandha housing society, Satara road.Jivan Mahadik, a wholesale trader said, “We are also helpless and do not want to risk our lives, but we do not have any other option, than to stand on the road and sell goods. If government gives us alternate option to park the vehicles and do our trading business then it will be a great help to us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/police-ensure-satara-road-s-buzzing-morning-market-is-ground-to-a-halt/story-5t5FZLnJDtYyAhrYDcvbSM.html
25-05-2020||Pune||Akurdi Pradhikaran residents protest quarantine facility in green zone||Residents of Akurdi Pradhikaran in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) have strongly opposed the civic body quarantining people in an educational institute located in the densely populated residential area. Pradhikaran is a green zone, so locals do not want their area affected now due to the PCMC’s action.Local corporators, Raju Misal of the NCP and Amit Gawade from the Shiv Sena, along with residents from the area, staged a protest on Saturday and Sunday in front of the Pimpri Chinchwad College of Engineering, sector 26, Akurdi Pradhikaran. Protestors put beds in front of the gate of the college and spent the night there. The civic body has quarantined 14 people inside the campus. These quarantined people belong to the Anandnagar slums located in Chinchwad, a red-zone belt.PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar said, “The opposition in the Akurdi Pradhikaran area is wrong because it’s a question of the entire city. They should co-operate with us. We have taken all the necessary precautions while quarantining people in their locality.” The PCMC, as of May 24, has recorded 324 positive Covid-19 cases.Raju Misal said, “The civic body did not inform us corporators before shifting these people. The people in our locality, for the last two-and-a-half months, have been strictly following social distancing and taking necessary precautions so our area falls in a green zone. PCMC should shift these people to a school located in Anandnagar.”Misal added, “After PCMC lifted its lockdown, on Saturday, 49 cases were reported, so there are chances of Covid-positive cases increasing. PCMC should use the Gahunje stadium as a quarantine centre. I have also informed deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar.”Sunil Patil, a resident of Prakashgad cooperative housing society, said, “Our society is located exactly besides the college. We are really worried after PCMC quarantined people besides our home.”Sumati Dole, another resident said, “All retired government people are living here. The college is located in the middle of densely populated housing societies. Who will take care of us? Why is the civic body allowing red-zone people in our green zone belt?” Suraj Karnik, also a resident, said, “Almost 90% people here are above the age of 60 and their immunity is low, so there is more risk. There are nearly 10,000 people in Akurdi-Pradhikaran. PCMC has made a 600-bed provision inside the college. We request the civic body to quarantine these people somewhere else.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/akurdi-pradhikaran-residents-protest-quarantine-facility-in-green-zone/story-gM4ShQtFR77hChZyfDQ1mO.html
25-05-2020||Pune||Pune’s observation homes for children get counselling via videoconferencing in Covid times||PUNE The observation and special homes for children in conflict with law (CCL) and children in need of care and protection (CNCP) have found solace in video conferencing and art since school and regular interaction sessions have come to a standstill during the Covid-19 (coronavirus) lockdown.While children in the special homes are juvenile convicts, the ones in the observation home are juvenile undertrials. According to Section 1 (14) of Juvenile Justice (Care & Protection of Children) Act 2015, children in need of care and protection are homeless, abused, destitute and missing children.The lockdown brought about major changes in the prison as well as correctional home systems all over the country. In an effort to prevent the spread of the virus within the prison and correctional facilities, a state-level high-powered committee had recommended directions for decongestion.The Jawaharlal Nehru Udyog Kendra observation and special home for boys in Yerawada had around 40 children. However, after decongestion, the observation home now has five while the special home has seven children, including two adults, in the facility.“These five are here because of unavoidable reasons. We could have sent them all home but one is from Delhi, two are orphans and one has only one parent who is also in prison,” said GN Padghan, probation officer of the Yerawada facility.Another facility called the Government Observation, Special and Children’s Home for Girls houses seven girls at its campus in Mundhwa. While most inmates in the boys’ facility are juvenile delinquents, the girls’ facility is currently home to six children in need of care and protection and one juvenile delinquent.Counselling, which forms an important part of the rehabilitation for these children is now being done through video conference.“Earlier, when the strength was more, there used to be constant scuffles. With less children, the disturbances are also less. Whenever required, if a child seems like he needs it, counsellors are called through video conferencing,” said Padghan.“They have access to one computer with Internet. Painting and sculptures are made daily. Since the school sessions stopped, the girls have made more than 100 pieces of art,” said Vaishali Navale Tribhuvan, uperintendent at the Girls Observation, Special, and Children’s Home, Mundhwa.Tribhuvan said the girls are very sharp and creative. “Counselling through video conferencing is a part of their routine life now. Various officials conduct counselling sessions,” she said.Along with counselling, the boys also receive online sessions on subjects like stress management, self-respect and gratitude, and importance of mental health.“We hold casual chats with them along with sessions. We call resource persons like art-based therapists and psychologist to speak with the children,” said Zaid Sayyed, social worker with the Resource Cell for Juvenile Justice (RCJJ), a field action project by the Centre for Criminology and Justice of the Tata Institute of Social Science (TISS).The project is operational in facilities in Mumbai, Pune, Yavatmal, and Amravati.“Earlier we had continuous classes and one movie per week. Now we select and show movies almost every day so that their afternoons are spent in a constructive way. In the evening we let them play in the open ground. Some take active interest in helping in the kitchen; some are involved in the in-house organic garden, and some in the carpenter workshop,” said Padghan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/counselling-by-video-conferencing-at-pune-s-observation-homes-for-children/story-WrGRRkb8kXhHBQb6zNHIwO.html
25-05-2020||World||Turkey records 29 deaths, 987 new Covid-19 cases||Turkey’s health minister announced 29 new deaths from Covid-19, bringing the death toll to 4,369.Fahrettin Koca also tweeted Monday that 987 new infections were confirmed in the past 24 hours. The total number of infections has reached 157,814.More than 120,000 people have recovered and people needing intensive care continued on a downward trend, according to the health ministry statistics. The ministry has said its treatment protocol includes the early use of antivirals hydroxychloroquin and favipiravir, as well as the antibiotic azithromycin, along with high frequency oxygen.The World Health Organization on Monday said it was temporarily dropping hydroxychloroquin — the anti-malarial drug U.S. President Trump is taking — from its global study into experimental Covid-19 treatments to review its safety.Turkey ranks ninth in a tally by Johns Hopkins University but experts believe the number of infections globally could be much higher than reported.Turkey’s 83 million citizens are on the third day of a four-day nationwide lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/turkey-records-29-deaths-987-new-covid-19-cases/story-Di1kYu1SCSJN3SSxtjozGL.html
25-05-2020||World||WHO pauses trial of anti-malaria drug in Covid-19 patients due to safety concerns||The World Health Organization has suspended testing the malaria drug hydroxychloroquine in Covid-19 patients due to safety concerns, WHO Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said on Monday.Hydroxycholoroquine has been touted by Donald Trump and others as a possible treatment for the disease caused by the novel coronavirus. The US President has said he was taking the drug to help prevent infection.“The executive group has implemented a temporary pause of the hydroxychloroquine arm within the Solidarity trial while the safety data is reviewed by the data safety monitoring board,” Tedros told an online briefing. He said the other arms of the trial - a major international initiative to hold clinical tests of potential treatments for the virus - were continuing.The WHO has previously recommended against using hydroxychloroquine to treat or prevent coronavirus infections, except as part of clinical trials.Dr. Mike Ryan, head of the WHO emergencies programme, said the decision to suspend trials of hydroxychloroquine had been taken out of “an abundance of caution”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-pauses-trial-of-hydroxychloroquine-in-covid-19-patients-due-to-safety-concerns/story-UgpxgK5xmbHR2FEtL1EenJ.html
25-05-2020||World||PM Boris Johnson faces flak as aide says ‘no regrets’ on breaching lockdown||Prime Minister Boris Johnson faced a groundswell of criticism on Monday from MPs, bishops, scientists and millions of people for defending controversial aide Dominic Cummings breaking lockdown rules recently, while the latter insisted he had ‘no regrets’ for his actions.The UK’s response to the coronavirus pandemic remained overshadowed by the story perceived by millions as one rule for those in power and another for the people. Johnson continued to resist demands from many of his party MPs and others to sack Cummings.Cummings, who has been close to Johnson since the successful Vote leave campaign in the 2016 EU referendum, travelled to Durham in north-east England with his family when the official advice followed by Britons was to ‘stay home’.The prime minister’s chief adviser went on television on Monday afternoon to present his version of events, alleging that much of media reporting had been wrong and was to blame for the anger among people over his movements in end of March until April 14. He had not offered to resign, nor had he considered it.More than 10 bishops said Johnson’s defence of Cummings was “risible”, that he had “no respect for the people”, “lacked integrity”, and risked undermining the trust of the public. Pete Broadbent, the bishop of Willesden, tweeted: “Johnson has now gone the full Trump.”As police chiefs said it would now be difficult to enforce curbs, at least three experts on the Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies influencing government moves on the coronavirus pandemic deplored Johnson’s remarks: Stephen Reicher, Robert West and Susan Michie.Reicher said: “If you look at the research it shows the reason why people observed lockdown was not for themselves, it wasn’t because they were personally at risk, they did it for the community, they did it because of a sense of ‘we’re all in this together’.”“If you give the impression there’s one rule for them and one rule for us you fatally undermine that sense of ‘we’re all in this together’ and you undermine adherence to the forms of behaviour which have got us through this crisis”, he said.Closely following the government response to the pandemic, writer JK Rowling tweeted: “Watching Johnson, This is despicable. Parents all over this country have abided by the lockdown rules, even while ill themselves. Hundreds of thousands managed toddlers while shut up inside cramped accommodation, purely for the common good AS THE GOVERNMENT TOLD THEM TO DO”.“I can’t remember a clearer demonstration of contempt for the people from a sitting Prime Minister. Johnson might a well had shambled into shot, give us all the finger and walked off again”, she added.Scotland first minister Nicola Sturgeon added: “I fear, and I say this with a heavy heart, Boris Johnson is putting his political interest ahead of the public interest. And when trust in a public health message and public health advice is as important as it is right now the consequences of that could be serious”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pm-boris-johnson-faces-flak-as-aide-says-no-regrets-on-breaching-lockdown/story-Ke5t4rtwf3xhYmrywzP8OO.html
25-05-2020||World||US expands travel ban to Brazil, poised to cross 100,000 toll||The Trump administration on Sunday suspended the entry of travelers from Brazil citing widespread human-to-human transmission of the coronavirus there and the threat infected individuals from there pose to the United States, which is staring at the grimmest of Covid-19 records of 100,000 deaths.The travel ban goes into effect from Friday and applies to immigrants and non-immigrants from Brazil, same as earlier orders suspending travelers from China, Iran, the Schengen area, the United Kingdom and Ireland.Citing the World Health Organization, which the United States has threatened to defund if it does not fix its China skew, the White House said in an official proclamation Brazil is currently number three in the world in number of infections — at 310,087 (it’s No 2 at 363,211, according to the Johns Hopkins University Covid-19 tracker, behind only the United States).The potential of infected people from Brazil entering the United States undetected, President Donald Trump said in the proclamation issued under his name and seal, “threatens the security of our transportation system and infrastructure and the national security”.Trump has touted his ban on travel from China, effective February 2, as the lynchpin of his administration’s response to the coronavirus outbreak, as he continues to be accused of a later a delayed and botched response.US fatalities from Covid-19 stood Monday morning at 97,722, just shy of the 100,000 mar, up by 633 over the past 24 hours. Infections went up by 20,634 over the same period to 1.66 million.President Trump, who has called himself a cheerleader for keeping up the spirits of Americans during these times of despair and despondency with his optimism, tried to focus on the positives. “Cases, numbers and deaths are going down all over the Country!” he wrote on twitter Sunday morning, which is true, but so is the eventuality of the US crossing 100,000, accounting for a third of the toll worldwide, which he did not acknowledge.The US president has sought to shift as much of the blame for the outbreak away from himself and his administration as he can, with an eye on the November elections. He has accused China of being slow to alert the world and threatened to punish the WHO for helping China cover up its alleged mishandling of the epidemic from the start, and downplaying it.Robert O’Brien, the US national security adviser, told an NBC TV interviewer Sunday China “unleashed a virus on the world that’s destroyed trillions of dollars in American economic wealth that we’re having to spend to keep our economy alive, to keep Americans afloat during this virus”.“The cover-up that they did of the virus is going to go down in history, along with Chernobyl,” he added, referring to the world’s worst nuclear disaster yet at a nuclear plant in erstwhile Soviet Union’s Ukraine in 1986. Moscow is alleged to have covered up the exact extent of the devastation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-expands-travel-ban-to-brazil-poised-to-cross-100-000-toll/story-C3RNKTyVoYpXvObFe8BO7M.html
25-05-2020||World||Gurdwara attacked in UK hate-crime, thousands of pounds worth damage caused||The Guru Arjan Dev Gurdwara in Derby was subjected to hate-crime on Monday morning when one person entered the premises and caused damage worth thousands of pounds, gurdwara officials said.Labour MP Preet Kaur Gill regretted the incident: “Very sad to see an attack on any place of worship. Thoughts are with the Derby sangat who have been providing 500 meals a day from Guru Arjan Dev Gurdwara”.Images of the person caught on CCTV entering the premises were shared by the gurdwara on social media while reporting the incident, causing concern and demands for his arrest.The gurdwara said in a statement: “This morning at 6am an individual entered the Gurdwara premises causing thousands of pounds of damage…We can confirm that no individuals were injured and that the clean-up process has begun”.“This hate crime or any sort of crime against a Sikh will never deter us in our practice of seva and simran. We will continue the service the community with Langar and continue to stream live nitnem (daily prayers). We will ensure the safety of all our Sevadhaars (colunteers) and employees”, it added.Gurdwaras across the UK have been recipients of funding as part of a government scheme to install security equipment to prevent hate-crime in places of worship, but such incidents have continued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gurdwara-attacked-in-uk-hate-crime-thousands-of-pounds-worth-damage-caused/story-GLU8LhHAEkTIx2b8BRUA0L.html
25-05-2020||World||China threatens US counter measures if punished for Hong Kong law||China on Monday threatened counter measures against the United States if it was punished for plans to impose a sedition law on Hong Kong, that the business hub’s security chief hailed as a new tool that would defeat “terrorism”.Beijing plans to pass a new security law for Hong Kong that bans treason, subversion and sedition after months of massive, often-violent pro-democracy protests last year.But many Hong Kongers, business groups and western nations fear the proposal could be a death blow to the city’s treasured freedoms and thousands took to the streets on Sunday despite a ban on mass gatherings introduced to combat coronavirus.As police dispersed the crowds with tear gas and water cannon, Washington’s national security advisor Robert O’Brien warned the new law could cost the city its preferential US trading status.But China’s foreign ministry said Beijing would react to any sanctions from Washington. “If the US insists on hurting China’s interests, China will have to take every necessary measure to counter and oppose this,” foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian told reporters on Monday.Hong Kong has become the latest flashpoint in soaring tensions between the world’s two super powers which China has likened to “the brink of a new Cold War”.The refusal to grant Hong Kongers democracy has sparked rare bipartisan support in an otherwise bitterly divided Washington during the Trump administration.Beijing portrays the city’s protests as a foreign-backed plot to destabilise the motherland and says other nations have no right to interfere in how the international business hub is run.- Mainland agents? -Protesters, who have hit the streets in their millions, say they are motivated by years of Beijing chipping away at the city’s freedoms since it was handed back to China by Britain in 1997.Hong Kong enjoys liberties unseen on the mainland, as well as its own legal system and trade status.Campaigners view the security law proposal as the most brazen move yet by Beijing to end free speech and the city’s ability to make its own laws.Of particular concern is a provision allowing Chinese security agents to operate in Hong Kong, with fears it could spark a crackdown on those voicing dissent against China’s communist rulers.On the mainland, subversion laws are routinely wielded against critics.The proposed law, which China’s rubber-stamp legislature is expected to act on quickly, will also bypass Hong Kong’s own legislature.The city’s influential Bar Association on Monday described the proposed motion as “worrying and problematic” -- and warned it may even breach the territory’s mini-constitution.The proposal has spooked investors with Hong Kong’s stock exchange suffering its largest drop in five years on Friday. On Monday it had yet to recover, closing just 0.10 percent up.- ‘Restore social order’ -Hong Kong’s unpopular pro-Beijing government has welcomed the law.“Terrorism is growing in the city and activities which harm national security, such as ‘Hong Kong independence’, become more rampant,” security minister John Lee said in a statement welcoming the planned legislation.Police chief Chris Tang cited 14 recent cases where explosives had been seized and said the new law would “help combat the force of ‘Hong Kong independence’ and restore social order”.Last year’s protests were initially sparked by plans to allow extraditions to the mainland but soon snowballed into a popular revolt against Beijing and the city’s police force.Beijing has dismissed protester demands for an inquiry into the police, amnesty for the 8,500 people arrested and universal suffrage.The demonstrations fizzled at the start of the year as mass arrests and the coronavirus took their toll.But they have rekindled in recent weeks with Sunday’s rally producing the most intense clashes for months and police making at least 120 arrests.During last year’s huge pro-democracy rallies, mob attacks were common on both sides of the political divide and a video of protesters beating a lawyer at Sunday’s rally was seized on by China’s state media.Hu Xijin, editor-in-chief of the nationalist tabloid Global Times, posted the video on Twitter -- a platform banned in mainland China.“Let’s see what the Washington-backed Hong Kong democracy really looks like,” he wrote.su-jta/rbu||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-threatens-us-counter-measures-if-punished-for-hong-kong-law/story-QcSI1klJLS5gy5IzViEjSL.html
25-05-2020||World||Malaysia reports 172 new coronavirus cases, most of them foreigners||Malaysia reported 172 new coronavirus cases on Monday, most of them foreigners held at immigration depots, and taking the total number of infections in the country to 7,417.The Ministry of Health said the number of deaths remained unchanged at 115.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/malaysia-reports-172-new-coronavirus-cases-most-of-them-foreigners/story-gFFwc6buolBQfuCSAmbdrJ.html
25-05-2020||World||Singapore reports 344 new Covid-19 cases||Singapore on Monday reported 344 new COVID-19 cases, a majority of them foreign workers living in dormitories, taking the nationwide tally to 31,960 as the country is gearing up to lift the “circuit breaker” imposed to contain the spread of the coronavirus.Out of the new infected cases, 340 are foreign workers residing in dormitories, the health ministry said.The rest four new cases are Singaporeans or permanent residents (foreigners).With this, the total number of cases in the country by noon on Monday reached 31,960, it said.“The lower number of cases today is partly due to fewer tests being conducted,” the ministry said.Meanwhile, Singapore is gearing up for the end of its “circuit breaker” period next week, Channel News Asia reported on Monday.The strict social distancing measures will be progressively lifted in three phases starting June 2, with the resumption of economic activities that do not pose a high risk of transmission of the virus in the first phase, it said.The “circuit breaker” measures were first announced on April 7 and were further tightened after three weeks, with more workplaces closed and social gatherings banned.For the first time in more than six weeks, no new COVID-19 cluster was identified in Singapore on Sunday, the ministry said.As of Sunday, the country had 16,027 COVID-19 patients in isolation and 690 in various hospitals.A total of 14,876 patients have been discharged from hospitals, while the city-state recorded 23 deaths related to the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/singapore-reports-344-new-covid-19-cases/story-4XCfnRublgo691R24OUQFM.html
25-05-2020||World||Japan lifts coronavirus emergency in all remaining areas||Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe lifted a coronavirus state of emergency in Tokyo and four other remaining areas on Monday, ending the restrictions nationwide as businesses begin to reopen.Experts on a government-commissioned panel approved the lifting of the emergency in Tokyo, neighbouring Kanagawa, Chiba and Saitama prefectures, and in Hokkaido to the north, which had more cases and remained under the emergency declaration after it was removed in most of Japan earlier this month.Abe said the lifting of the emergency does not mean the end of the outbreak. He said the goal is to balance preventive measure and the economy until vaccines and effective drugs become available.Japan, with about 16,600 confirmed cases and about 850 deaths, has so far avoided a large outbreak like those experienced in the US and the Europe despite its softer restrictions.But the world’s third largest economy is fallen into a recession, and public discontent over Abe’s handling of the coronavirus has sent his support ratings tumbling. Recent media surveys show public support for his Cabinet has plunged below 30%, the lowest since he returned to office in December 2012.Abe declared the state of emergency on April 7 in several parts of Japan including Tokyo, expanded it to the entire nation later in the month, and then extended it until the end of May.Also read: Did Japan just beat coronavirus without lockdowns or mass testing?Under the emergency, people were asked to stay at home and non-essential businesses were requested to close or reduce operations, but there was no enforcement. Since May 14, when the measures were lifted in most of Japan, more people have left their homes and stores have begun reopening.Economy Minister Yasutoshi Nishimura said recent data suggest that infections have slowed enough and pressure on the medical system has fallen enough to allow a gradual resumption of social and economic activity. He said Tokyo, Kanagawa and Hokkaido, where the number of infections is still fluctuating, need to be watched closely.On Monday, Matsuya department store, a landmark in Tokyo’s posh Ginza shopping district, resumed operation. Sales staff wearing plastic face shields welcomed customers with bows but no verbal greetings under new guidelines.Individual prefectures are allowed to impose their own measures. Tokyo Gov. Yuriko Koike said last week that the capital will reopen in three phases starting with schools, libraries, museums, and longer service hours for restaurants. She said theaters, sports facilities and other commercial establishments will be next, with nightclubs, karaoke and live music houses in the final phase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-lifts-coronavirus-emergency-in-all-remaining-areas/story-nG4pYUlnOttC44VLTAHKRI.html
25-05-2020||World||Did Japan just beat coronavirus without lockdowns or mass testing?||Japan’s state of emergency is set to end with new cases of the coronavirus dwindling to mere dozens. It got there despite largely ignoring the default playbook.No restrictions were placed on residents’ movements, and businesses from restaurants to hairdressers stayed open. No high-tech apps that tracked people’s movements were deployed. The country doesn’t have a center for disease control. And even as nations were exhorted to “test, test, test,” Japan has tested just 0.2% of its population -- one of the lowest rates among developed countries.Yet the curve has been flattened, with deaths well below 1,000, by far the fewest among the Group of Seven developed nations. In Tokyo, its dense center, cases have dropped to single digits on most days. While the possibility of a more severe second wave of infection is ever-present, Japan has entered and is set to leave its emergency in just weeks, with the status lifted already for most of the country and Tokyo and the remaining four other regions set to exit Monday.Analyzing just how Japan defied the odds and contained the virus while disregarding the playbook used by other successful countries has become a national conversation. Only one thing is agreed upon: that there was no silver bullet, no one factor that made the difference.“Just by looking at death numbers, you can say Japan was successful,” said Mikihito Tanaka, a professor at Waseda University specializing in science communication, and a member of a public advisory group of experts on the virus. “But even experts don’t know the reason.”One widely shared list assembled 43 possible reasons cited in media reports, ranging from a culture of mask-wearing and a famously low obesity rate to the relatively early decision to close schools. Among the more fanciful suggestions include a claim Japanese speakers emit fewer potentially virus-laden droplets when talking compared to other languages.Contact TracingExperts consulted by Bloomberg News also suggested a myriad of factors that contributed to the outcome, and none could point to a singular policy package that could be replicated in other countries.Nonetheless, these measures still offer long-term lessons for countries in the middle of pandemic that may yet last for years.An early grassroots response to rising infections was crucial. While the central government has been criticized for its slow policy steps, experts praise the role of Japan’s contact tracers, which swung into action after the first infections were found in January. The fast response was enabled by one of Japan’s inbuilt advantages -- its public health centers, which in 2018 employed more than half of 50,000 public health nurses who are experienced in infection tracing. In normal times, these nurses would be tracking down more common infections such as influenza and tuberculosis.“It’s very analog -- it’s not an app-based system like Singapore,” said Kazuto Suzuki, a professor of public policy at Hokkaido University who has written about Japan’s response. “But nevertheless, it has been very useful.”While countries such as the U.S. and the U.K. are just beginning to hire and train contact tracers as they attempt to reopen their economies, Japan has been tracking the movement of the disease since the first handful of cases were found. These local experts focused on tackling so-called clusters, or groups of infections from a single location such as clubs or hospitals, to contain cases before they got out of control.“Many people say we don’t have a Centers for Disease Control in Japan,” said Yoko Tsukamoto, a professor of infection control at the Health Sciences University of Hokkaido, citing a frequently held complaint about Japan’s infection management. “But the public health center is a kind of local CDC.”Burning CarThe early response was also boosted by an unlikely happening. Japan’s battle with the virus first came to mainstream international attention with its much-criticized response to the Diamond Princess cruise ship in February that led to hundreds of infections. Still, the experience of the ship is credited with providing Japanese experts with invaluable data early in the crisis on how the virus spread, as well as catapulting it into the public consciousness.Other countries still saw the virus as someone else’s problem, said Tanaka. But in Japan, the international scrutiny over the infections onboard and the pace at which the virus raced throughout the ship raised awareness and recognition that the same can happen across the country, he said. “For Japan, it was like having a burning car right outside your house.”Although political leadership was criticized as lacking, that allowed doctors and medical experts to come to the fore -- typically seen as a best practice in managing public health emergencies. “You could say that Japan has had an expert-led approach, unlike other countries,” Tanaka said.Experts are also credited with creating an easy-to-understand message of avoiding what are called the “Three C’s” -- closed spaces, crowded spaces and close-contact settings -- rather than keeping away from others entirely.“Social distancing may work, but it doesn’t really help to continue normal social life,” said Hokkaido University’s Suzuki. “The ‘Three C’s’ are a much more pragmatic approach and very effective, while having a similar effect.”Different StrainInfectious disease experts also pointed to other determinants, with Shigeru Omi, the deputy head of the expert panel advising the Japanese government and a former chief of the WHO Western Pacific office, citing Japanese people’s health consciousness as possibly the most important factor.The possibility that the virus strain spreading in Japan may have been different, and less dangerous, to that faced by other nations, has also been raised.Researchers at the Los Alamos National Laboratory in the U.S. studied coronavirus variants in a database and found one strain of the virus spreading through Europe that had several mutations distinguishing it from the Asian version, according to a paper put in early May. Although the study has not been peer-reviewed and drawn some criticism, the findings point to a need to more thoroughly study how the virus changes.Large questions still remain over the true extent of the pathogen’s spread. In April, a Tokyo hospital conducted tests on a handful of non-Covid patients and found that around 7% had the coronavirus, showing the danger of missing asymptomatic or mild carriers that can become the source of an outbreak. An antibody test on 500 people in the capital suggested the true outbreak could be nearly 20 times larger than figures have shown. Analog contact tracing breaks down when infection numbers are high, and reports of people unable to get tested or even medical treatment for Covid-like symptoms peppered social media during the height of the outbreak.And the fact remains that Japan’s response was less than perfect. While the overall population is much smaller, Asian neighbors such as Taiwan had just seven confirmed deaths from the virus, while Vietnam had none.“You can’t say the Japan response was amazing,” said Norio Sugaya, a visiting professor at Keio University’s School of Medicine in Tokyo and a member of a World Health Organization panel advising on pandemic influenza. “If you look at the other Asian countries, they all had a death rate that was about 1/100th of Western countries.”Buying TimeWhile Japan may have avoided the worst of the health outcomes, the loose lockdown hasn’t protected the country from the economic impact. Its economy, already dealing with the impact of a sales tax hike in October, officially slid into recession in the first three months of the year. Economists have warned the second quarter will be the worst on record, and the specter of deflation, which haunted the economy for decades, once again looms. Tourist numbers plummeted 99.9% in April after the country shut its borders, putting the brakes on a booming industry that had promised to be a growth driver for years. As in other countries, bankruptcies have risen sharply.Even with the the state of emergency about to end, authorities are warning that life will not return to normal. When case numbers slowed in early March, there was public optimism that the worst was over -- only for cases to spike again and trigger the emergency declaration.If a deadlier second wave does follow, the risk factor in Japan, which has the world’s oldest population, remains high. The country has speedily approved Gilead Sciences Inc.’s remdesivir and is now scrambling to allow the use of still unproven Fujifilm Holdings Corp.’s antiviral Avigan. There are calls for the country to use the time it has bought itself to shore up its testing and learn in the way its neighbors did from SARS and MERS.Officials have begun to speak of a phase in which people “live with the virus,” with a recognition that Japan’s approach has no possibility of wiping out the pathogen.“We have to assume that the second wave could be much worse than the first wave and prepare for it,” said Yoshihito Niki, a professor of infectious diseases at Showa University’s School of Medicine. “If the next explosion of cases is worse, the medical system will break down.”For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2020 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/did-japan-just-beat-coronavirus-without-lockdowns-or-mass-testing/story-BxjdVNtNHRhTIFwbsB8oHN.html
25-05-2020||World||Scientists, JK Rowling pan UK PM for defending aide who broke lockdown rules||Writer JK Rowling, bishops and top scientists on a key government committee joined millions across the United Kingdom to express fury at Prime Minister Boris Johnson defending his chief adviser Dominic Cummings, who breached lockdown rules in end-March.Cummings, who has been close to Johnson since the successful Vote Leave campaign in the 2016 EU referendum, travelled to Durham in north-east England with his family when the official advice followed by Britons was to ‘stay home’, prompting accusations that there is one rule for those in power and another for others.The Johnson government has been grappling with growing number of coronavirus cases and deaths due to Covid-19. As of Sunday evening, there were 36,793 deaths and 259,559 cases across the UK.As the storm rose across the country, including in usually Conservative supporting sections and tabloids, Johnson insisted on Sunday evening that Cummings had done no wrong, defying many who sought the aide’s resignation.More than 10 bishops said Johnson’s defence of Cummings was “risible”, that he had “no respect for the people”, “lacked integrity”, and risked undermining the trust of the public. Pete Broadbent, the bishop of Willesden, tweeted: “Johnson has now gone the full Trump.”As police chiefs said it would now be difficult to enforce curbs, at least three experts -- Stephen Reicher, Robert West and Susan Michie - on the Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies influencing government moves on the coronavirus pandemic deplored Johnson’s remarks.Reicher said: “If you look at the research it shows the reason why people observed lockdown was not for themselves, it wasn’t because they were personally at risk, they did it for the community, they did it because of a sense of ‘we’re all in this together’.”“If you give the impression there’s one rule for them and one rule for us, you fatally undermine that sense of ‘we’re all in this together’ and you undermine adherence to the forms of behaviour which have got us through this crisis”, he said.Closely following the government response to the pandemic, writer Rowling tweeted: “Watching Johnson, This is despicable. Parents all over this country have abided by the lockdown rules, even while ill themselves. Hundreds of thousands managed toddlers while shut up inside cramped accommodation, purely for the common good AS THE GOVERNMENT TOLD THEM TO DO”.“I can’t remember a clearer demonstration of contempt for the people from a sitting Prime Minister. Johnson might as well had shambled into shot, give us all the finger and walked off again”, she added.Scotland first minister Nicola Sturgeon added: “I fear, and I say this with a heavy heart, Boris Johnson is putting his political interest ahead of the public interest. And when trust in a public health message and public health advice is as important as it is right now the consequences of that could be serious”.---eom||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/top-scientists-jk-rowling-pan-uk-pm-boris-johnson-for-defending-aide-who-broke-lockdown-rules/story-ysajcuoOd705lxUMFqnZbI.html
25-05-2020||World||Eid al-Fitr: Singaporean businessman cooks biryani for migrants amid Covid crisis||As Muslims around the world celebrate Eid al-Fitr to mark the end of the fasting month, thousands of migrant workers in Singapore have had to spend the holiday in quarantine because of outbreaks of the novel coronavirus in their dormitories. To cheer them up, Singaporean businessman Dushyant Kumar, his wife and a team of chefs cooked up a giant biryani for a Sunday evening Eid feast for at least 600 migrants.Kumar used a family recipe for the South Asian rice dish often eaten during festive occasions.  “Usually, if they are with their family, they will get to enjoy these kinds of dishes, because everyone will cook and eat, but here these guys are alone,” said Kumar, in between tasting the dish being prepared in big cooking pots at the kitchen of a restaurant.There are about 300,000 foreign labourers in Singapore, most of them from Bangladesh, China and India, and most staying in purpose-built dormitories, in rooms with bunks for 12 to 20 men. “So we want to make sure they don’t feel left out,” said Kumar, whose imitative is supported by funds from donors and a non-governmental organisation.     “The smile on their face gives you a lot of satisfaction,” said Kumar, who has been overseeing the delivery of more than 1,000 meals a day to migrants in quarantine since early April.The government has said employers are required to provide sufficient food for workers during this lockdown, but it is also working with charity groups to make up any shortfalls.Singapore has had more than 30,000 Covid-19 cases, one of the highest tallies in Asia, with the vast majority of infections among migrant workers in their dormitory accommodation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eid-al-fitr-singaporean-businessman-cooks-biryani-for-migrants-amid-covid-crisis/story-HI53d6TVFNbNMLie4XqIgO.html
25-05-2020||World||‘Bleeding credibility’, ‘signs of weakness’: Boris Johnson faces party wrath for backing aide who violated Covid-19 lockdown||Political fury exploded in Britain over Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s senior aide Dominic Cummings, who is facing calls to resign for a journey during the coronavirus lockdown. Johnson has so far defended Cummings’ action.A British cabinet member told ITV channel that the UK government is “bleeding credibility” over the issue. The minister, who was not named by the television network, also said that the cabinet members were “stunned” by Johnson’s statement.Another unnamed minister was quoted by the Sun newspaper as saying, “This is not a bubble story. Real people are furious, because they have been doing the right thing and isolating.”A second unnamed minister cited by the newspaper said that retaining the adviser was “increasingly” looking as a “sign of weakness”.Johnson backed Cummings on Sunday, despite calls from within his own Conservative Party for the aide to resign.“I’ve had extensive face-to-face conversations with Dominic Cummings,” Johnson told a news conference, saying his aide had followed the “instincts of every father” when he travelled with his wife for help with childcare while isolating. “I believe that in every respect he has acted responsibly and legally and with integrity.”With Johnson’s words that he had acted with integrity, Cummings was safe, at least for now.Cummings, architect of the 2016 campaign to leave the EU, came under pressure when newspapers reported he had travelled from London to northern England in March when his wife was ill with Covid-19 symptoms during a nationwide lockdown.Keir Starmer, leader of the opposition Labour Party, described Johnson’s decision to take no action against Cummings as “an insult to the sacrifices made by the British people”.A divisive figure, Cummings is seen by allies and enemies alike as Johnson’s most important and influential strategist.Johnson’s office said Cummings made the 400 km journey after his wife showed symptoms, to ensure his 4-year-old son could be properly cared for by relatives if he too fell ill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bleeding-credibility-signs-of-weakness-boris-johnson-faces-party-wrath-for-backing-aide-who-violated-covid-19-lockdown/story-iJY6P9fLP9cCrLObfsFynL.html
25-05-2020||World||No break for nature? Here’s how Covid-19 crisis is harming the world’s forests||With most of the planet locked down due to the Covid-19 crisis, experts believe this could be the time when nature finally takes a break amid low human activity and get into a healing mode. However, a latest report suggests that coronavirus lockdown may have a detrimental effect on the planet’s forest cover.A report published by the World Economic Forum (WEF), in collaboration with news agency Thomson Reuters, says that the Covid-19 lockdown has put the world’s forests at a risk.According to the report, poor people who have lost work or are temporarily out of work in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic cut down trees for fuel and other purposes.Many people depend on forests for livelihood, food and shelter. Millions who have lost casual work in cities amid the coronavirus crisis are returning to their native places in rural areas, the report states.Also read: With nearly 7,000 Covid-19 cases in 24 hrs, India records biggest surge for 4th dayAround the world, 1 billion people depend on wild foods and 2.4 billion use wood for cooking, while more than nine out of 10 people living in extreme poverty depend on forests for at least part of their livelihoods.Mette Wilkie, director of the forestry division at the UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), said that trees are more likely to be felled for food and fuel as a third of the world’s population still depend on wood to cook. The Covid-19 lockdown could exacerbate this.UN FAO’s ‘State of the World’s Forests 2020’ report links the rise of infectious diseases, such as Covid-19, to forest loss.According to the report, the planet has lost an estimated 420 million hectares of forest since 1990 - more than three times the size of South Africa.No break for nature?There is a misperception that nature is getting a break during the Covid-19 pandemic, the WEF states in another report. “Many rural areas in the tropics are facing increased pressure from land-grabbing, deforestation, illegal mining and wildlife poaching,” the report reads. Outside urban areas, the picture in rural regions paints a different scenario with an increased pressure on nature and resources. The coronavirus pandemic has infected over 5.5 million people across the globe while more than 3.4 lakh people have succumbed to death due to Covid-19. More than 2 million patients have recovered from the dealy contagion globally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-break-for-nature-here-s-how-covid-19-crisis-is-harming-the-world-s-forests/story-idy23EfH6glKPoPecRsVnI.html
25-05-2020||World||‘No Eid in our home’: Pakistani families mourn plane crash victims||As Fazal Rahmaan, 80 and his wife, Wahida Rahmaan, 74, boarded a plane in the Pakistani city of Lahore on Friday, their family’s biggest fear was that they might catch the coronavirus on their way to spend the holiday in Karachi.Instead the couple, who had been married for 54 years, were among the 97 people killed when an Airbus A320, operated by Pakistan International Airlines, crashed into a Karachi neighbourhood - Pakistan’s worst air disaster since 2012. “We held many calls deliberating with doctors and family ... Our biggest concern was that they made the trip safely,” said their son, Inam Ur Rahmaan, who instead of welcoming his parents for the Eid al-Fitr holiday found himself picking through the wreckage of flight PK8303 praying for a miracle.Also read: ‘I went towards the light’, says Pakistan plane crash survivor“I got in my car and followed the smoke and the ambulances,” said Rahmaan. “When I saw the area, I realised that it would be a miracle if they had made it.”There were two survivors from onboard the aircraft, while no fatalities were reported on the ground in the densely packed neighbourhood of multi-story homes abutting the eastern edge of Jinnah International Airport where the plane came down.More than two dozen homes were damaged as the airliner roared in, leaving a tangle of severed electric cables and exposed rebar - a broken wing rested against the side of a home, an engine on the ground nearby. The jet fuel set the wreckage ablaze, along with homes and vehicles, sending black smoke into the sky, a Reuters witness said.Crowds rushed to the site, relatives searching for loved ones, rescue workers and the curious. Scores of ambulances and fire-engines jammed the narrow, debris-cluttered streets.One rescue worker told Reuters two bodies were found with oxygen masks on. Many bodies pulled from the wreckage were charred beyond recognition.The airline’s chief executive said on Friday the last message from the pilot indicated a technical problem. A team from Airbus is due to arrive on Monday to investigate, a PIA spokesman said.“They’ll provide all possible assistance including decoding the black box,” the spokesman Khan, referring to the flight data recorder.Screams and fireShahid Ahmed, 45, was at the airport waiting for his mother to arrive. When he reached the crash site he saw rescuers retrieving bodies and people taking selfies.“There was no one responsible at the site, people were busy posing for pictures,” said a distraught Ahmed, who lost his mother, Dishad Begum, 75, who was also flying to Karachi for Eid.After scouring the site and failing to find his mother, Ahmed went to look for her in hospitals.“There was no list of the dead or injured at any of the hospitals, it was all chaos and mismanagement,” said Ahmed, who sobbed as he recounted the ordeal. “Searching for our mother’s body was a nightmare.”One of the survivors, engineer Muhammad Zubair, told Geo News the pilot came down to land, briefly touched down, then pulled up again.He announced he was going to make a second try shortly before the plane crashed, Zubair said from hospital.“I could hear screams from all directions. Kids and adults. All I could see was fire. I couldn’t see any people – just hear their screams,” he said.Rahmaan said his family was still in shock.“There’s no Eid in our home,” he said.Rahmaan said he took some comfort from knowing his parents always wanted to be with each other.“Whatever’s happened, whatever the reason behind it, they always wanted to be together. At the end, they were together.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-eid-in-our-home-pakistani-families-mourn-crash-victims/story-irPRlt6yl7c3dnmfa5twWJ.html
25-05-2020||World||China denies using Coronavirus to grow presence in South China Sea||A look at recent developments in the South China Sea, where China is pitted against smaller neighbours in multiple territorial disputes over islands, coral reefs and lagoons. The waters are a major shipping route for global commerce and are rich in fish and possible oil and gas reserves.China’s foreign minister is dismissing claims that the country is exploiting the coronavirus outbreak to expand its footprint in the South China Sea, labelling such accusations as “sheer nonsense.”State Councillor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi told reporters at a news conference on Sunday that China was cooperating closely on anti-virus efforts with South-east Asian countries, several of whom have overlapping territorial claims with China in the strategically vital waterway.While China has long been stepping up its presence in the region, Wang said other countries, implying the United States and its allies, have been creating instability with military flights and sea patrols.“Their ill-intentioned and despicable moves are meant to sow discord between China and (South-east Asian countries) and undermine the hard-won stability in the region,” Wang said.China says it will increase its defence spending by 6.6% in 2020, despite a major downturn in the country’s economic growth due to the coronavirus outbreak.The increase is the lowest in years, but will still allow China to expand its ability to enforce its territorial claims in the South China Sea and grow its military presence in the Western Pacific and Indian Ocean. Another key priority is maintaining a credible threat against Taiwan, the self-governing island democracy China considers its own territory to be brought under its control by military force if necessary.Double-digit percentage increases of just a few years ago that have given China the second biggest defense budget in the world behind the U.S. Spending this year will total 1.3 trillion yuan ($180 billion), according to the website of the National People’s Congress, the ceremonial parliament that opened its annual session Friday.A study says South-east Asian countries are cutting defence spending as a result of the economic crisis brought on by the coronavirus outbreak, potentially opening up room for China to further assert its claims in the region.Aristyo Rizka Darmawan, a maritime security expert at the University of Indonesia, writes that slashing defence spending is seen as a relatively easy way to cut costs when countries are facing pressure on their budgets.“Indonesia, for example, has announced it will slash its defense budget this year by nearly US$588 million. Thailand has likewise reduced its defence allocation by $555 million. Malaysia, Vietnam, and the Philippines all face similar pressure,” Darmawan wrote in the online journal of the Lowy Institute, an Australian think tank. “Less defence spending will invariably mean less patrols at sea.”China has maintained its presence in the South China Sea throughout the virus outbreak. Recent frictions include Chinese ships shadowing Malaysian mineral exploration operations and the sinking of a Vietnamese fishing boat by a Chinese maritime security vessel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-denies-using-coronavirus-to-grow-presence-in-south-china-sea/story-6FOBj1dMgk3QeeQHYMY32J.html
25-05-2020||World||Thousands without power in Western Australia after once in a decade storm||Wild weather downed trees and left tens of thousands of people without power in Western Australia, as emergency services began cleaning up in Perth on Monday after some of the worst weather in a decade.Wind speeds of up to 132 km/hour (82 mph) were registered at Cape Leeuwin, one of the state’s most south-westerly points early on Monday, the strongest May gusts in 15 years, according to the Australia Broadcasting Corp.“Some wild weather has affected large parts of WA, causing widespread damage and large scale power outages. Please listen to the advice of emergency services and stay safe everyone,” Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said on social media.Around 50,000 customers were without power on Monday due to storm-related outages, utility Western Power said, as the remnants of Cyclone Mangga hit a cold front and brought squalling rain and emergency level storm warnings to the south of the state.“New damage from the windborne debris has meant the overall number of impacted homes and businesses remains high,” it said on Twitter.More than 390 calls for assistance were made to the state’s emergency services since Sunday, mostly from the Perth metropolitan area, the Department of Fire and Emergency Services Chief Superintendent Danny Mosconi told ABC Radio.Pilbara Ports Authority said port operations in the Pilbara had not been affected, but elevated swell led to some minor shipping schedule changes at the Port of Dampier, which is used by Rio Tinto.The biggest oil and gas operators in WA, Chevron Corp , Woodside Petroleum and Santos, said there was no impact on their operations in the minerals-rich state.BHP Group said their was no major impact to its operations. Rio Tinto Ltd declined to comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thousands-without-power-in-western-australia-after-once-in-a-decade-storm/story-sglKu3B6RTFRZBcLZWJgtM.html
25-05-2020||World||Biden aims to move left without abandoning centrist roots||Joe Biden worked out deals with Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell. He defended Vice President Mike Pence as a “decent guy” and eulogized Arizona Republican Sen. John McCain’s “fairness, honesty, dignity, respect.”When he launched his presidential campaign, such overtures to Republicans were central to Biden’s promise to “unify the country” and “restore the soul of the nation” after defeating President Donald Trump.Now that he’s the presumptive Democratic nominee, Biden is sharpening his tone, still pitching consensus but touting a “bold agenda” aimed at mollifying progressives who remain skeptical he will deliver enough on health care, student loan debts and the climate crisis.The idea is to avoid repeating the party’s 2016 defeat, when Hillary Clinton struggled to unite her moderate supporters and backers of Bernie Sanders. The dynamics are different in 2020, with Democrats united in their antipathy toward Trump. But Biden’s juggling of the left wing along with mainstream Democrats and independents and Republicans disgruntled with Trump could end up as an unsuccessful attempt to be all things to all people.“It certainly seems like the approach that they’re taking right now is trying to have it both ways,” said Evan Weber, a co-founder of the Sunrise Movement, a climate action youth organization that is among the political groups working with the Biden campaign on policy proposals.For younger voters, Weber added, “Going too far in the direction of trying to appeal to a moderate narrative or a bipartisan era that most people in our generation have never experienced ... is not going to inspire a lot of confidence.”Republican pollster Whit Ayres countered that Biden’s “sweet spot” is the center-left.“You’ve got to run on who you are,” Ayres said. “If he becomes a politician of the left, it’s going to hurt his ability to consolidate the 54 per cent of Americans who voted for someone other than Donald Trump in 2016.”Biden deflects the risks. Asked whether his recent moves mean he’ll govern as a “progressive,” Biden retorted on CNBC: “I’m going to be Joe Biden. Look at my record.”Recent interviews and campaign events reveal the nuances Biden hopes can attract support in both directions. “I think health care is a right, not a privilege,” he said on CNBC, espousing an article of faith for the left. But, he added, “I do not support Medicare for All” single-payer insurance.Biden embraces some key principles of the Green New Deal sweeping climate plan as paths to “tens of millions of new jobs,” but casts as impossible some progressives’ goal of zeroing out carbon pollution over a single decade. He’s reaffirmed that he wants Republicans’ 2017 tax cuts repealed for the wealthiest individuals and corporations. But he prefers a 28 per cent corporate tax rate – still lower than what it was before the cuts – and he’s not embraced a “wealth” tax on the fortunes of the richest Americans. He opposes the Keystone XL pipeline while stopping short of backing an outright ban on fracking.The coronavirus pandemic has influenced Biden’s thinking, as well.Once a senator who championed a balanced budget amendment, he’s aligned with congressional Democrats pushing trillions of dollars in aid for states, local governments, business and individuals. And, adopting the tenor of erstwhile rivals like Sanders and Elizabeth Warren, Biden has intensified his calls to rebuild the economy to reflect progressive values, including stamping out income inequalities baked into the pre-pandemic system.Biden aides say he’s uniquely positioned for a wide “Biden coalition” because voters prioritize experience and temperament, along with policy. The campaign defines his coalition as young, African Americans and Latinos, as well as suburban, college-educated whites, women and those disaffected by Trump.“We do not have to make a choice between one group or another group in terms of how we are going to win this,” Biden’s campaign manager Jen O’Malley Dillon said on a recent strategy call.Campaign co-chairman Cedric Richmond said Biden can stitch together otherwise irreconcilable parts of the electorate for one reason: Trump.“We have a president now with no discernible political philosophy other than what benefits him,” said Richmond, a Louisiana congressman. “Even people who are not as progressive (as Biden) and people who are more progressive at least like the consistency of knowing what a person believes in.”Anti-Trump conservatives offer similar sentiments.“We are living right now ... with the damage that can be done when a president is elected and thinks that he only has to answer to his base,” said Jennifer Horn of the Lincoln Project, which has produced online ads to help thwart Trump’s reelection.Even if Biden prevails in November, governing might prove tougher.Republicans who dislike Trump – the kind who cut deals with Sen. Biden or Vice President Biden – aren’t likely to back President Biden’s proposed “public option” health insurance expansion when they’ve never embraced the Affordable Care Act.The same goes for tax hikes and mega-spending energy packages the fossil fuel industry opposes. And within Biden’s personal base, labor unions whose jobs are anchored in existing energy markets haven’t embraced the sweeping alternatives.During the primary, Biden told skeptics in his own party he’d work with Republicans “without compromising our values,” but work to “beat them” in the 2022 midterms if that failed.Meanwhile, Weber, the Sunrise activist, argued that despite Biden’s embrace of some progressive priorities, “It’s hard to teach an old dog new tricks.”Tim Miller, a former spokesman for Republican Jeb Bush’s 2016 presidential campaign and a steadfast member of the GOP’s “Never Trump” faction, said more 2016 voters in decisive battleground states shunned both Trump and Clinton for center-right alternatives in Libertarian Gary Johnson or Independent Evan McMullen than Green Party candidate Jill Stein. Winning back just that cohort back could be enough to secure Biden to the presidency alone this cycle, he said.“I do think that there’s a concern that if he oversteps, overemphasizes a pivot to the left that could turn off certain voters who are gettable for him,” Miller said. “That’s going to be a continued tightrope through November.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-aims-to-move-left-without-abandoning-centrist-roots/story-gQmFYmVuJzgMOEyNdHraVK.html
25-05-2020||World||Hong Kong security chief warns of growing ‘terrorism’ as government backs Beijing’s planned security laws||Hong Kong’s security chief said “terrorism” was growing in the city, as government departments rallied on Monday behind Beijing’s plans to introduce national security laws and after thousands took to the streets to protest against the move.Police said they arrested more than 180 people on Sunday, when authorities fired tear gas and water cannon to disperse anti-government protesters as unrest returned to the Chinese-ruled city after months of relative calm. “Terrorism is growing in the city and activities which harm national security, such as ‘Hong Kong independence’, become more rampant,” Secretary for Security John Lee said in a statement.“In just a few months, Hong Kong has changed from one of the safest cities in the world to a city shrouded in the shadow of violence,” he said, adding national security laws were needed to safeguard the city’s prosperity and stability.Also read: China’s Wang Yi warns against foreign interference in Hong KongIn a return of the unrest that roiled Hong Kong last year, crowds thronged the streets of the city on Sunday in defiance of curbs imposed to contain the coronavirus, with chants of “Hong Kong independence, the only way out,” echoing through the streets.Calls for independence are anathema to Beijing, which considers Hong Kong an inalienable part of the country. The proposed new national security framework stresses Beijing’s intent “to prevent, stop and punish” such acts.Agencies issuing statements in support of the legislation included the Commissioner of Correctional Services, and Hong Kong Customs.Financial Secretary Paul Chan wrote on his blog on Sunday the national security law “itself” does not affect investor confidence, only the “misunderstanding” of it does.“The central government has already said the law is targeted at the minority of people who are suspected of threatening national security and will not affect the rights of the general public.”The United States, Australia, Britain, Canada and others have expressed concerns about the legislation, widely seen as a potential turning point for China’s freest city and one of the world’s leading financial hubs.Taiwan, which has become a refuge for a small but growing number of pro-democracy protesters fleeing Hong Kong, will provide the people of Hong Kong with “necessary assistance”, President Tsai Ing-wen said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-security-chief-warns-of-growing-terrorism-as-government-backs-beijing-s-planned-security-laws/story-ix4uCf9HWwTu7IJ9D02oeI.html
25-05-2020||World||Japan to end Tokyo’s state of emergency, eyes fresh $930 billion stimulus||Japan will lift a state of emergency for Tokyo and remaining areas still facing restrictions on Monday, while the Nikkei reported a plan for new stimulus worth almost $1 trillion to help companies ride out the coronavirus pandemic.Social distancing curbs were loosened for most of the country on May 14 as new infections fell, but the government had kept Tokyo and four other prefectures under watch.Japan’s economy minister told reporters on Monday the government had received approval from key advisers to remove the state of emergency for all remaining regions. It would be the first time the country has been completely free from the state of emergency since it was first declared a month and a half ago.“While the emergency state will be lifted, it is important to expand economic activity in stages as we establish a new way of living,” Yasutoshi Nishimura said. He added that the head of the advisory panel had recommended close monitoring of Tokyo, Kanagawa and Hokkaido prefectures, where cases had fluctuated.The world’s third-largest economy has escaped an explosive outbreak with some 17,000 infections and 825 deaths so far; however, the epidemic has tipped it into a recession and plunged Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s popularity to multi-year lows.An Asahi newspaper poll conducted at the weekend showed Abe’s support rate at 29 per cent - the lowest since he returned to power in late 2012 - and disapproval at 52 per cent. The results mirrored a Mainichi newspaper survey published on Saturday.Abe will hold a news conference at 6 pm (0900 GMT), followed by a government task force meeting. The lifting of the state of emergency takes effect after the meeting.Tokyo Governor Yuriko Koike has previously said the capital would move into “stage one” of loosening restrictions, once the state of emergency was removed. That would allow libraries and museums to reopen, and restaurants to stay open until later in the evening. Subsequent stages would see theatres, cinemas and fairgrounds reopen.Two-fifths of GDPTo support an economy on track for its deepest slump in postwar history, the government is considering fresh stimulus worth 100 trillion yen ($930 billion), mostly comprising financial aid for companies, the Nikkei newspaper said.The package, to be funded by a second supplementary budget, would follow a record 117 trillion yen spending plan deployed last month.The combined stimulus would bring the total spending in response to the pandemic to about 40 per cent of Japan’s gross domestic product.The new package would include 60 trillion yen to expand loan programmes that state-affiliated and private financial institutions offer to firms hit by virus, the Nikkei said. Another 27 trillion yen would be set aside for other aid including capital injections for ailing firms, the paper said.The government is expected to approve the budget, which will also include subsidies to help companies pay rent and wages, at a cabinet meeting on Wednesday.Japan’s economy slipped into recession in the last quarter, and analysts expect another 22 per cent contraction in April-June.The deepening pain from the pandemic is forcing the government to add to Japan’s huge debt pile, which is already twice the size of its economy, to pay for big spending plans.The Bank of Japan expanded monetary stimulus for the second straight month in April and pledged to buy as many bonds as needed to keep borrowing costs at zero.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-to-end-tokyo-s-state-of-emergency-eyes-fresh-930-billion-stimulus/story-W9VSh47IOwWyOquYCAtcDP.html
25-05-2020||World||Taiwan promises ‘necessary assistance’ to Hong Kong’s people||Taiwan will provide the people of Hong Kong with “necessary assistance”, President Tsai Ing-wen said, after a resurgence in protests in the Chinese ruled territory against newly proposed national security legislation from Beijing.Taiwan has become a refuge for a small but growing number of pro-democracy protesters fleeing Hong Kong, which has been convulsed since last year by protests. Hong Kong police fired tear gas and water cannon to disperse thousands of people who rallied on Sunday to protest against Beijing’s plan to impose national security laws on the city.Writing on her Facebook page late on Sunday, Tsai said the proposed legislation was a serious threat to Hong Kong’s freedoms and judicial independence. Bullets and repression are not the way to deal with the aspirations of Hong Kong’s people for freedom and democracy, she added.“In face of the changing situation, the international community has proactively stretched out a helping hand to Hong Kong’s people,” Tsai wrote.Taiwan will “even more proactively perfect and forge ahead with relevant support work, and provide Hong Kong’s people with necessary assistance”, she wrote.Taiwan has no law on refugees that could be applied to Hong Kong protesters who seek asylum on the island. Its laws do promise, though, to help Hong Kong citizens whose safety and liberty are threatened for political reasons.The Hong Kong protests have won widespread sympathy in Taiwan, and the support for the protesters by Tsai and her administration have worsened already poor ties between Taipei and Beijing.China has accused supporters of Taiwan independence of colluding with the protesters.China believes Tsai to be a “separatist” bent on declaring the island’s formal independence. Tsai says Taiwan is already an independent country called the Republic of China, its official name.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taiwan-promises-necessary-assistance-to-hong-kong-s-people/story-4n6lUGJsUsG9DxgV8mIPgP.html
25-05-2020||World||White House goal on testing nursing homes for Covid-19 within 14 days unmet||Nearly two weeks ago the White House urged governors to ensure that every nursing home resident and staff member be tested for the coronavirus within 14 days.It’s not going to happen.A review by The Associated Press found that at least half of the states are not going to meet White House’s deadline and some aren’t even bothering to try.Only a handful of states, including West Virginia and Rhode Island, have said they’ve already tested every nursing home resident.Many states said the logistics, costs and manpower needs are too great to test all residents and staff in a two-week window. Some say they need another week or so, while others say they need much more time. California, the most populous state, said it is still working to release a plan that would ensure testing capacity for all residents and staff at skilled nursing facilities statewide.And still other states are questioning whether testing every nursing home resident and staff, regardless of any other factors, is a good use of time and money.“At this time it would be fairly useless to do that,” said Nebraska Chief Medical Officer Dr. Gary Anthone, adding that the state would have to repeat the tests almost daily to get more than a snapshot in time, and the state doesn’t have the capacity when there are others who need to be tested.Anthone said the state was going to stick with the CDC’s guidelines, which call for testing individually when nursing home residents show symptoms or collectively if there is a new confirmed case of Covid-19 in a home.The varying responses by states to nursing home testing is another example of the country’s patchwork response to the pandemic that also underscores the Trump administration’s limited influence. The president has preferred to offload key responsibilities and decisions to states and governors, despite calls for a coordinated national response.“All of this is probably not as well thought out as it could have been.” said Dr. Jim Wright, the medical director at a Virginia nursing home where dozens of residents have died. “It sounds more like an impulsive type of directive rather than one that has been completely vetted by providers on the ground.”On May 11, Trump heralded his administration’s efforts to boost coronavirus testing and said the U.S. had developed the “most advanced robust testing system in the world, by far.” That same day, Vice President Mike Pence hosted a private conference call with the state’s governors, where White House adviser Dr. Deborah Birx requested that each state target nursing homes to help lower the virus’ death toll.“Start now,” Pence added, according to a recording of the call obtained by the AP.Trump said later that day at a news conference that he was thinking of making it a mandatory requirement.“I think it’s very important to do and I think, frankly, some of the governors were very lax with respect to nursing homes,” Trump said.Birx acknowledged Friday that the two-week recommendation was a challenge but said it was needed because of the particular vulnerability of nursing homes.“We should never be discouraged by those who can’t get it done,” she said. “We should be encouraged by those who have shown us that it can be done.”Nursing homes residents, who are typically older and often have underlying medical conditions, have been particularly hard hit by the virus. More than 36,000 residents and staff have died from outbreaks at the nation’s nursing homes and long-term care facilities, according to an AP tally. . That is more than a third of all deaths in the U.S. that have been attributed to the virus.Nursing home operators have said the lack of testing kits and other resources have left them nearly powerless to stop the virus from entering their facilities because they haven’t been able to identity silent spreaders not showing symptoms.The American Health Care Association, the main nursing home trade group, said more than half of its members said they were unable to test all residents and staff within two weeks because of a lack of access to testing. The group also estimates that testing every nursing home resident and staff member would involving testing nearly 3 million people at a cost of $440 million.Even with the tests, nursing homes struggle to find people to administer them and carve out enough time to perform them.New York, one of the nation’s leaders in nursing home deaths, said this past week it has sent out enough kits to all nursing homes to test every resident though it remains unclear whether they will be done by the deadline.Delaware Gov. John Carney announced a plan May 5 for universal testing of all residents and staff in nursing homes and other long-term care facilities, but the testing program is voluntary. On Friday, the state said three-quarters of long-term care facilities had requested testing kits, and that weekly testing of staff would be mandatory starting in June.Alabama State Health Officer Scott Harris said meeting the White House’s recommendation would mean testing 50,000 people in two weeks when it took three months for the state to test 150,000 people.“It’s just not possible,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/white-house-goal-on-testing-nursing-homes-for-covid-19-within-14-days-unmet/story-6NGfvidufAnEOQbYKiBjdL.html
25-05-2020||World||‘Things moving behind me’: New Zealand PM continues TV interview as quake strikes||New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern barely skipped a beat when an earthquake struck during a live television interview Monday morning.She interrupted Newshub host Ryan Bridge to tell him what was happening at the parliament complex in the capital, Wellington.“We’re just having a bit of an earthquake here Ryan, quite a decent shake here,” she said, looking up and around the room. “But, um, if you see things moving behind me.”New Zealand sits on the Pacific Ring of Fire and is sometimes called the Shaky Isles for its frequent quakes.Monday’s magnitude 5.6 quake struck in the ocean about 100 kilometers (62 miles) northeast of Wellington, according to the US Geological Survey.The quake hit just before 8 am and was felt by thousands of New Zealanders who were getting ready to start their work weeks. It was strong enough to rattle food from shelves and stop train services.But there were no reports of major damage or injuries.Ardern continued on with her interview, telling the host the shaking had stopped.“We’re fine Ryan,” she said. “I’m not under any hanging lights, I look like I’m in a structurally sound place.”A 2011 quake in the city of Christchurch killed 185 people and destroyed much of the downtown area. The city is continuing to rebuild.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/things-moving-behind-me-new-zealand-pm-continues-tv-interview-as-quake-strikes/story-k43ICC3pNJgvZGM7BC978M.html
25-05-2020||World||As Covid-19 cases surge, US bans travellers from Brazil ‘to protect country’||The White House has announced a ban on travel to the US from Brazil due to the spread of coronavirus in Latin America’s hardest-hit country. Press secretary Kayleigh McEnany says in a statement Sunday evening that the ban applies to foreign nationals who have been in Brazil in the 14 days before they sought to travel to the United States. McEnany cast it as a move by President Donald Trump “to protect our country.” Trump has already banned travel from the United Kingdom, Europe and China, all of which have been hit hard by the virus. Trump had said last week that he was considering imposing similar restrictions on Brazil. Brazil had reported more than 3,47,000 Covid-19 cases, second behind the US in the number of infections, according to a Johns Hopkins University count. Brazil also has recorded more than 22,000 deaths, fifth-most in the world. There have been more than 97,000 deaths in the US.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/as-covid-19-cases-surge-us-bans-travellers-from-brazil-to-protect-country/story-AosI3fHMIHjVzqtwXpiseP.html
25-05-2020||World||Virus strains on bats in China lab not matching Covid-19: Director||The Chinese virology institute at the centre of US allegations as the possible source of Covid-19 has three live strains of bat coronavirus on-site, but none of them match the pathogen behind the new pandemic, its director has said.Scientists think Covid-19 -- which first emerged in the central Chinese city of Wuhan and has killed more than 340,000 people worldwide -- originated in bats and could have been transmitted to people via another mammal.But the director of the Wuhan Institute of Virology told state broadcaster CGTN that claims made by US President Donald Trump and others that the virus could have leaked from the facility were “pure fabrication”.In the interview filmed on May 13 but broadcast Saturday night, Wang Yanyi said the centre has “isolated and obtained some coronaviruses from bats”.“Now we have three strains of live viruses... But their highest similarity to SARS-CoV-2 only reaches 79.8 %,” she said. At a media briefing Sunday, Chinese foreign minister rejected America’s “lies” over the coronavirus. A “political virus” is spreading in the US, causing politicians there to take very opportunity to attack and discredit China, Wang Yi said, speaking at his annual news conference on the sidelines of the ongoing session of the National People’s Conference (NCP), China’s legislature.“This political virus uses every opportunity to attack and discredit China. Some politicians have ignored the most basic facts and created too many lies and plotted too many conspiracies against China,” Wang said. China is open to international cooperation to identify the source of Covid-19 but any probe should be “free of political interference”, Yi further added. China, he said, was open to “…the international scientific community’s cooperation in virus tracing research. At the same time, we believe that this process should adhere to professionalism, fairness and constructiveness.”Wang said China and the US need to start coordinating macro policies for their respective economies as well as the world economy.The US should stop wasting precious time, he added.China remains prepared to work with the US in the spirit of cooperation and mutual respect, he said.The investigation should be led by scientists of the World Health Organization, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/virus-strains-on-bats-in-china-lab-not-matching-covid-19-director/story-kYfnRjdOVMasVz59jDEoiL.html
25-05-2020||World||Political virus spreading in US, leading to attacks on us, says China’s top diplomat||China is open to international cooperation to identify the source of the novel coronavirus but any probe should be “free of political interference”, Chinese state councillor and foreign minister Wang Yi said Sunday.China’s top diplomat, Wang heavily criticised the efforts of some US politicians to fabricate rumours and stigmatise China to blame it for the pandemic.The US is pushing relations with China to “the brink of a new Cold War”, Wang said, rejecting US “lies” over the coronavirus.He said a “political virus” is spreading in the US causing politicians there to take very opportunity to attack and discredit China.Defending the newly tabled security legislation on Hong Kong, Wang said it would target a narrow category of acts and would have no impact on the city’s freedoms or rights, or interests of foreign firms.Instead of being more worried, people should be more confident of Hong Kong’s stability, he said.Speaking at his annual news conference on the sidelines of the ongoing session of the National People’s Conference (NCP), China’s legislature, Wang touched upon wide range of topics including ties with the US, Russia and Japan and on international cooperation during the ongoing pandemic.Not surprisingly, he came out most strongly on ties with the US, saying a “political virus” was at play.“This political virus uses every opportunity to attack and discredit China. Some politicians have ignored the most basic facts and created too many lies and plotted too many conspiracies against China,” Wang said. “Unfortunately, in addition to the raging of the new coronavirus, a political virus is also spreading in the US. This political virus is to use every opportunity to attack and discredit China. Some politicians have ignored the most basic facts and made too many lies and plotted too many conspiracies against China,” he said.Wang’s comments come in the backdrop of rising tension between Beijing and Washington on a host of issues including the pandemic, Hong Kong’s political status and sale of US arms to Taiwan.Beijing and Washington engaged in a back-and -forth after the US criticised China’s handling of the outbreak, suggesting that it had come from a laboratory in Wuhan where the virus emerged late last year.He said China and the US need to start coordinating macro policies for their respective economies as well as the world economy.The US should stop wasting precious time, said Wang.China remains prepared to work with the US in the spirit of cooperation and mutual respect, he said.China, he said was open “…the international scientific community’s cooperation in virus tracing research. At the same time, we believe that this process should adhere to professionalism, fairness and constructiveness”.The investigation should be led by WHO scientists, he said.More than 12 billion masks have been exported to the US, which is equivalent to providing nearly 40 masks for each American, he said.Wang said China “launched the largest global emergency humanitarian operation in the history of New China” during the pandemic.He said China had provided emergency assistance to nearly 150 countries and exported 56.8 billion masks and 250 million pieces of protective clothing to the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/political-virus-spreading-in-us-leading-to-attacks-on-us-says-china-s-top-diplomat/story-hfmyS29MiO3OMtcLbl2IFM.html
25-05-2020||World||Ivanka Trump under fire for tweet on migrants||US presidential adviser Ivanka Trump’s praise of an Indian teenager’s bicycle ride home is drawing criticism in India for being insensitive to the plight of migrant workers struggling in a lockdown. The girl carried her father on the back of her bicycle for about a week for 1,200 km, the two said on Saturday, one of the many out-of-work migrant families leaving big cities for their homes in other parts of India because the shutdown has sapped their savings.“15-year-old Jyoti Kumari, carried her wounded father to their home village on the back of her bicycle covering +1,200 km over 7 days. This beautiful feat of endurance & love has captured the imagination of the Indian people and the cycling federation!” Ivanka, daughter of President Donald Trump, tweeted Friday. Also Watch | Bihar girl who carried father on cycle for 1200 km, gets a call for trialsIndia’s cycling federation, impressed with her endurance, has invited her for trials and said it could groom her into a cyclist, local media reported. But opposition leaders said Jyoti’s desperate journey home because of a crippling transport shutdown was hardly something to celebrate.“Her poverty & desperation are being glorified as if Jyoti cycled 1,200 KM for the thrill of it. Government failed her, that’s hardly something to trumpet as an achievement,” Omar Abdullah, a former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, tweeted in response to Ivanka’s message.According to relatives, Jyoti had to drop out of school due to financial crisis a few years ago.Darbhanga programme officer Sanjay Kumar Deo Kanhaiya, in Bihar, said on Saturday that Jyoti has been granted admission in class 9 at the government school in Singhwara block.The education department also gifted her a brand new cycle, along with a school dress, shoes, text books and stationary items on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ivanka-trump-under-fire-for-tweet-on-migrants/story-JRHjyWX2yjY0IfkeVqVjVM.html
25-05-2020||India||Cops crack death of 9 migrants in Warangal||Telangana police on Monday claimed to have cracked the mystery behind the death of nine migrant workers, including six of the same family, whose bodies were retrieved from an abandoned well on the outskirts of Warangal town last week.Warangal city police commissioner V Ravinder said all nine had been murdered by another migrant worker, who first laced their food with sleeping pills and dumped their bodies into the well to cover up another murder he had committed in March. The alleged killer was identified as Sanjay Kumar Yadav (24) from Bihar.On Friday, the police recovered nine bodies from a well at Gorrekunta village on the outskirts of Warangal. The dead were identified as Mohammed Maqsood (55), his wife Nisha (48), sons Shahabad Alam (21) and Sohail Alam (18), daughter Bushra (20) and her three-year-old son Shoaib. The family belonged to West Bengal, The other three victims were identified as Sriram (21) and Shyam (22), both from Bihar, and Shakil (30) from Tripura. All the adults were working in a burlap bag manufacturing unit in Geesugonda block of Warangal and had been staying in the same company premises since the enforcement of the coronavirus disease lockdown on March 25.The police initially thought they had committed mass suicide owing to financial constraints or some other family reasons before tracing the crime to Yadav.According to the police commissioner, Yadav had a relationship with Rafiqa (37), a divorcee sister-in-law of Maqsood. Rafiqa, along with her three children, started living with Yadav separately. But she later realised that Yadav also was trapping her teenaged elder daughter. in a relationship, and threatened to expose him, Ravinder said.Yadav promised to marry Rafiqa and left for West Bengal along with her on a train on March 6. During their journey, he gave her buttermilk laced with sedatives and after she went to sleep, strangulated her and threw her body out of the train. He quietly returned to Warangal.When Maqsood grew suspicious and started questioning Yadav, threatening to complain to the police, Yadav decided to kill him and his family. He bought sleeping pills from a medical shop and on May 20, attended a birthday party hosted by Maqsood for his son where he mixed the pills in the food. The family members, the two Bihar men and the lone Tripura man ate the food and slipped into a deep sleep.“After ensuring that all of them were unconscious, Yadav dragged all the nine to the well one after the other and threw them into it between 12.30 am and 5 am on Thursday,” Ravinder said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cops-crack-death-of-9-migrants-in-warangal/story-Qhz6cLt3xqXzJ7CtZaC23M.html
25-05-2020||India||For two states, unfamiliar farm threat triggers untested response||Lucknow/Bhopal: For agriculture departments of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, dealing with swarms of locust is something new. Therefore, in addition to spraying pesticides, the local administrations have adopted unconventional -- adnd potentially unproven -- methods such as sounding sirens, playing loud music and using drones to scare the insects.Agriculture department officials of the two states said that they have no records to show when the last locust attack took place in their states. “We have no record of the last major locust attack,” said sugarcane commissioner, Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, who is coordinating anti-locust activities in Uttar Pradesh. Prayagraj district agriculture officer Ashwani Kumar Singh, said: “We have informed farmers that they can scare away locusts by beating tin drum, plates etc. Besides, they are also being advised to spray pesticides on their crops to protect them from locusts.” Singh said that the police have been asked to blow sirens from their vehicles . “All village pradhans and farmers of Prayagraj have been alerted about the locust attacks and have been asked to inform district authorities if they spot a swarm through gram panchayat adhikaris and agriculture technical assistants who remain in touch with them locally so that appropriate steps can be taken,” he said. The Agra district administration has deployed 204 tractors equipped with chemical sprays to keep the pests at bay. The Jhansi district administration has directed the fire brigades to remain on standby with chemicals and also to blow sirens to ward off the insects.In Uttar Pradesh, locusts have damaged crops in Jhansi, Lalitpur and Hamirpur districts and 15 more districts such as Agra, Aligarh, Mathura, Firozabad and Etawah are under threat. Bhoosreddy said all necessary protective measures were being be taken to protect sugarcane crop. “If locusts are spotted in sugarcane crop, the department has recommended immediate spraying of insecticides such as chlorpyrifos 20 percent EC, chlorpyrifos 50 percent EC, Bundiomethrin, Fipronil, and Lambda,” he said.In Madhya Pradesh, principal secretary, agriculture Ajeet Kesari, said, “Our teams continue to track the swarms wherever they are going and spray chemical over them. However, their groups are smaller now -- say one or two kilometres in radius -- unlike in the beginning when they were spread in the radius of 5 to 6 kilometres.”Farmers in Hoshangabad, Raisen, Sehore, Sagar, Chhatapur, Harda and several other districts too beat drums, tin cans, burst fire crackers and even arranged bone fires . “All possible ways are being adopted to keep locust away from crops. We have deployed police vehicles that blow sirens to shoo away the insects,” said AK Nema, deputy director, agriculture, Sagar division. He added that farmers have been given pesticides to spray on crops to minimize the damage. Madhya Pradesh agriculture minister, Kamal Patel, said, “A survey will be carried out in the state to assess the damage caused by swarms of locusts and compensation will be given to the farmers affected.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-two-states-unfamiliar-farm-threat-triggers-untested-response/story-h9lfbGsRfoyOF3HZSpPcCO.html
25-05-2020||India||Govt allows private jets, chartered flights to operate on domestic routes||Private jets and chartered flights will be allowed to operate on domestic routes, the civil aviation ministry said in an order issued on Monday. As per the order, domestic air services by non- scheduled and private operators including Fixed Wing, Helicopters and Micro light aircraft shall resume with effect from May 25.The order comes on the day domestic flights operations resumed in the country after a two-month-long suspension due to lockdown to stop the spread of Covid-19 pandemic.The civil aviation ministry issued guidelines for non-schedule operator permit (NSOP) stating that passengers should report at the airport, heliport or helipad at least 45 minutes before the departure time.“Vulnerable persons, such as very elderly, pregnant ladies, passengers with health issues are advised to avoid air travel. However, this will not apply to air ambulance services,” it said.The guidelines said if a passenger has manually booked his or her ticket for a chartered helicopter flight, the boarding pass will be issued at helipad or heliport with minimum contact and after following all sanitization protocols prescribed by local administration.The guidelines also said the price cap on tickets, issued by the Director General of Civil Aviation last week for scheduled domestic passenger flights, will not be applicable on chartered flights.“The charges of air travel (on chartered flights) to be as per mutually agreed terms between operators and the travellers,” the ministry said.Apart from these, most of the guidelines issued by the aviation ministry are similar to the ones issued for passengers of operators of domestic commercial passenger flights.Passengers will also have to download the Arogya Setu app and wear a face mask.“The status of ‘Aarogya Setu’ should be displayed to the staff. In case of non-availability of Aarogya Setu, the passenger should be facilitated to go to a counter provided by the airport where the app can be downloaded. Children below fourteen years of age would be exempt from this requirement,” the order said.More than 39.000 passengers boarded domestic flights on Monday after the resumption of domestic air travel, according to officials aware of the development. 523 flights took off while nearly 50% were cancelled due to restrictions imposed by a few states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-allows-private-jets-chartered-flights-to-operate-on-domestic-routes/story-ocmBhhWBytq2fTD8QX69GJ.html
25-05-2020||India||Govt permits private jets, chartered flights on domestic routes||NEW DELHI The civil aviation ministry allowed on Monday private jets, chartered flights and helicopters to resume operations on domestic routes, issuing new guidelines for how soon passengers must turn up for boarding and restrictions on close contact when they reach for departure.The order covers fixed-wing aircraft such as jets and micro light planes as well.According to the guidelines, passengers should report at the airport, heliport or helipad at least 45 minutes before the departure. “Vulnerable persons, such as very elderly, pregnant ladies, passengers with health issues are advised to avoid air travel. However, this will not apply to air ambulance services,” it said.The guidelines said if a passenger has manually booked a ticket for a chartered helicopter flight, the boarding pass will be issued at helipad or heliport with minimum contact and after following all sanitization protocols prescribed by local administration.The guidelines also said the price cap on tickets, issued by the Director General of Civil Aviation last week for scheduled domestic passenger flights, will not be applicable on chartered flights.“The charges of air travel (on chartered flights) to be as per mutually agreed terms between operators and the travellers,” the ministry said.Passenger will also have to download the Aarogya Setu app to travel.“The status of ‘Aarogya Setu’ should be displayed to the staff. In case Aarogya Setu is not available, the passenger should be facilitated to go to a counter provided by the airport where the app can be downloaded. Children below fourteen years of age would be exempt from this requirement,” the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-permits-private-jets-chartered-flights-on-domestic-routes/story-GR1Z0ga33CVTvGEmlQGtGJ.html
25-05-2020||India||Online meetings for house panels unlikely||The plan to hold online meetings of Parliamentary panels in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic and lockdown seems to have been put in cold storage. Preparations have started for the usual, in-camera meetings at the Parliament complex. “So far, nine rooms in the Parliament House and annexe are identified for holding regular meetings of the 24 department-related standing committees and another six rooms are being prepared for other committees of both the Houses,” said a senior official aware of the matter, requesting anonymity. Rajya Sabha chairman M.Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla factored in the resumption of flights and train services between Delhi and state capitals to draw up the plan for holding regular meetings of House panels, the official said. The concept of online meetings of Parliamentary panels was proposed when flights and train services were stopped as part of the Covid-19 lockdown imposed in March.Both Naidu and Birla started discussions with senior officials to explore the possibility of holding online meetings—something that has never happened since the panels came into existence in 1993. Now they are focused on preparations for regular meetings. Before Lockdown 4.0 ends on May 31, Naidu held an hour-long meeting with Birla on May 23. The secretaries general of both the Houses and other senior officials were also present at the meeting. “Both the Presiding Officers have taken note of the resumption of air and train services in the country this month,” said the senior official cited above. A second senior official said the concept didn’t have overwhelming support. The chairmen of four panels (all from the Congress)-- information technology panel chief Shahi Tharoor, Pubic Accounts Committee chairman Adhir Chowdhury, home affairs panel head Anand Sharma and environment panel chairman Jairam Ramesh -- had favoured online meetings. The officials also pointed out that only the main committee room in the annexe has enough space to maintain social distancing. Naidu and Birla said extra seats with mike facilities must be provided in the other rooms too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/online-meetings-for-house-panels-unlikely/story-U1g6HtP41f8cjPM3NFxULM.html
25-05-2020||India||Proposal to auction Tirumala temple property sparks row||Hyderabad A recent proposal of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams, which manages India’s richest temple of Tirumala in the Chittoor district of Andhra Pradesh, to auction as many as 50 immovable properties of the temple located in different states has triggered protests from opposition parties and Hindu groups.On Monday, the TTD clarified that no final decision had been taken yet in this regard. “It was just a proposal which would be discussed at the next trust board meeting. after taking into consideration the suggestions from all quarters,” TTD trust board chairman YV Subba Reddy told reporters in Tirupati.He said the decision to auction 50 “unviable” properties was taken by the erstwhile trust board during the Telugu Desam Party regime in January 2016, based on a recommendation made by a sub-committee appointed for the purpose.“At the TTD trust board meeting held in February this year, it was decided to examine the earlier resolution and suggest a plan of auction for the auctioning of the properties,” he clarified.Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has proposed to auction 50 immovable petty properties located at different places in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Rishikesh in Uttarakhand.On April 30, the TTD listed out as many as 23 properties situated in various parts of Tamil Nadu including Vellore, Kacheepuram and Thiruvalluvar districts, for auctioning, with the total upset price (base price) of these properties being Rs 2 crore.The properties proposed for auction include houses, house sites, vacant lands and agriculture land. The TTD chairman said properties donated by devotees to the hill shrine several decades ago were non-maintainable and non- revenue generating for the TTD. There are another 26 properties in Andhra Pradesh and one piece of land in Rishikesh.The decision triggered criticism from political parties as well as religious groups and individuals.Bharatiya Janata Party Andhra Pradesh uniut president Kanna Lakshminarayana demanded the temple withdraw the proposal as it would hurt the sentiments of Hindus.Jana Sena party president Pawan Kalyan lashed out at the temple trust board for the decision that hurts the sentiments of devotees.Temples protection movement convenor CS Rangarajan appealed to the government to form a Dharmika Parishad to govern the assets of temples. He expressed the fears that the TTD’s decision would set a precedent for all the temples for selling away the properties donated by devotees.Viswa Hindu Parishad threatened the YS Jagan government with launching Kar Seva, if the decision to sell God’s properties is not withdrawn.The TTD chairman, however, said as per the rules, the TTD Board was competent to sale, exchange and mortgage the immovable properties, if found beneficial to TTD.He said that the practice of selling immovable, non-maintainable and not useful properties had been in vogue since 1974. Between 1974-2014, about 129 such immovable properties which were not useful to TTD activities were disposed of in public auction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/proposal-to-auction-tirumala-temple-property-sparks-row/story-AGFHcXVwmiSGMcDr6GUz4H.html
25-05-2020||India||BJP strategy: Virtual rallies to mark 1 yr of govt||NEW DELHI: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will organise a series of programmes both online and on the ground to mark its first year in office on May 30, said functionaries aware of the details.A letter with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s message to the countrymen will also be distributed to about 100 million households by booth-level workers. This distribution will be limited to those areas that are not Covid-19 containment zones. In other places, the letter will be delivered electronically and on social media platforms, the functionaries quoted above said on condition of anonymity.According to a senior party functionary, party president JP Nadda will inaugurate the anniversary functions with an online address to workers.“A virtual rally will be organised, as will 1,000 online interactions across the country. This is not the first time that the party is relying on the virtual world to connect with the masses, but now it is being scaled up,” said the functionary on condition of anonymity.The focus of the rallies and the interactions will be the message of self reliance or Aatmanirbhar Bharat given by PM Modi; the Rs 20 lakh crore financial package announced to revive the economy and the efforts made by the government to contain the spread of the pandemic, the functionary added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-strategy-virtual-rallies-to-mark-1-yr-of-govt/story-XKWZO6Pn44aRMuEMz6k1EI.html
25-05-2020||India||Mumbai death toll crosses 1k||MumbaiMaharashtra on Monday recorded 2,436 new Covid-19 cases, taking its tally to 52,667. The state witnessed 60 fatalities, pushing up the toll to 1,695. With 38 of these recorded in Mumbai, the city crossed the 1,000 deaths-mark. While Mumbai’s Covid-19 toll rose to 1,026, the number of cases in Mumbai increased by 1,430 to 31,972.In other parts of the state, Pune recorded 244 fresh cases, while Thane 149 new cases on Monday, taking their virus count up to 5,319 and 2,739 respectively.Maharashtra, which is the worst-hit state in the country, has witnessed a surge in Covid-19 cases, with more than 20,000 infections reported over the past nine days alone. The state government is expecting cases to rise further in the next fortnight, especially in Mumbai and Pune, said state health department officials, adding that the government has already started strengthening its health infrastructure and adding new beds.Mumbai, which accounts for 60% of the state’s coronavirus cases, is already staring at a shortage of hospital beds and intensive care unit (ICU) facilities.The Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) on Monday outlined the plan to increase beds in Mumbai by creating “jumbo facilities”. The CMO said a centralised dashboard has been created to track the availability of beds and its location in real-time. With increased capacity and real-time tracking of beds, patients will not have to spend crucial hours waiting for availability of beds.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in his address to the state on Sunday, said the government is anticipating a spike in cases by month-end. As a part of their preparations for the surge in Mumbai, a field hospital at Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) with 1,000 beds, including 200 ICU beds, has been readied in a fortnight. Additionally, a Covid Care Centre (CCC) with 600 beds at Mahalaxmi Racecourse, which will have 125 ICU beds, is being erected for patients with mild infections. Nesco Exhibition Centre in Goregaon will have 535 beds.“In the next two weeks, Dedicated Covid Hospital Centre (DCHC) and Dedicated Covid Hospital (DCH) collectively with 7,000 beds will come up at Dahisar, Mulund, Mahalaxmi Racecourse, and Goregaon,” a note from the CMO said.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is acquiring hospitals with 100 beds and 20 ICUs in each ward to tackle the rise in cases.Similarly, hospitals are being acquired in Thane city. Thane guardian minister Eknath Shinde has asked to augment bed capacity at the Thane district hospital too. As many as 150 beds will be added at the hospital.Meanwhile, according to the state health department, of the 60 deaths recorded on Monday, 54 were in the past 48 hours, while the remaining six are from last week. The fatalities are of 42 men and 18 women. Twenty-seven of those who succumbed to the infection were over 60 years, while 29 were in the 40 to 59 age group, and three were under 40 years. According to the health department, 78%, or 47 patients, had high-risk co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, and heart disease, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-death-toll-crosses-1k/story-YAKAH22q76FuBp2ksdCVbL.html
25-05-2020||India||Expedite setting up of migrant commission in state, says Yogi||LucknowUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Monday that measures to set up a migration commission should be expedited to provide jobs to migrant workers coming back to the state due to the Covid-19 lockdown.The chief minister gave the directives at a meeting of his Team-11 convened to review the lockdown situation in the state.“Yes, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has asked for making efforts on a war-footing to set up the migration commission. The commission will be set up in the next few days in accordance with the existing provisions of law,” said chief secretary RK Tiwari.The announcement came amid a growing controversy over the chief minister’s assertion last week that states will need to obtain permission if they wanted to use Uttar Pradesh’s manpower.In response on Monday, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray demanded that Maharashtra should allow only “bonafide” migrants and they should submit all details to the authorities.”Any migrant entering Maharashtra too, would need to take permissions from us, the Maharashtra government and the state police. The Maharashtra government needs to look into this matter seriously,” said Thackeray.Official estimates say about one million migrants have left Maharashtra and gone back to their respective home states since the Covid-19 pandemic began. A majority of these workers belong to Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Orissa, Jharkhand and West Bengal.The controversy has alarmed business associations who say any move to curtail the flow of workers would be detrimental to the economy.“These statements like registration will only scare away the migrant labour and will impede the growth of an industrialised state like Maharashtra,” said Mohan Gurnani, chairman of the Chamber of Associations of Maharashtra Industry and Trade. “There is also apprehensions of how much migrants will come back as many sectors are dependent on migrant labour,” he added.At a webinar on Sunday, the chief minister had said his government would set up the migration commission in the interest of workers. “The migration commission will work in the interest of the migrant workers. If any other state wants UP’s manpower, they cannot take them away just like that. Those states will have to do it with the consent and permission of the UP government. The way our migrant workers were ill-treated in those states, the UP government will take their insurance, social security in its hands now. The UP government will stand with them wherever they work, whether in Uttar Pradesh, other states or other countries,” he had said.Asked if the state government would study the Centre’s Inter State Migrant Workmen Act or go for enacting a new law to set up the commission, Tiwari said, “Our basic objective is to watch the welfare of migrant labourers and ensure that they get their wages.”The state government’s move about prior permission for jobs in other states may, however, has to stand legal scrutiny with experts saying there can’t be any restriction on doing business in any part of the country. “The Constitution of India provides a fundamental right allowing every citizen free movement and the right to do business anywhere in India. The state government can enact any law for welfare of migrant labourers. It, however, cannot restrict these rights,” said former advisor to governor and legal expert CB Pandey.About 2.5 million migrant labourers have already reached the state. The state government is carrying out an exercise for skill mapping of the migrant labourers. An official spokesman said the skill mapping so far has indicated that 151,492 migrant workers belong to the real estate sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expedite-setting-up-of-migrant-commission-in-state-says-yogi/story-zImxAMNQf7WBkGYMFBCV4J.html
25-05-2020||India||More than 1,500 stranded Nepalese sent to Nepal via Champawat barrage||More than 1,500 Nepalese were sent to Nepal through Sharada barrage in Banbasa area of Champawat district on Monday. They were housed in relief centres set up in Champawat and US Nagar district till now, said an official.“More than 1,500 migrant Nepalese were sent to Nepal from Sharda barrage on Monday. They were housed in Champawat and US Nagar districts. They were taken by buses and dropped near the international border,” said SN Pandey, district magistrate, Champawat.These Nepalese had come from Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Garhwal region of Uttarakhand, where most of them worked as labourers and workers. They were housed in relief camps in the two bordering districts. Some of them were with their families and were in a distressed condition.They were stuck in India as Nepalese government had sealed the Indo-Nepal border to check Covid-19 outbreak and was reluctant to permit their entry fearing they may bring infection into Nepal, an official said.These Nepalese citizens were anguished by the stand taken by the Nepal government. Three days ago, they shouted anti-Nepal government slogans at Jagbuda bridge for not allowing them to enter Nepal.For Coronavirus Live Updates“450 Nepalese stuck in Nainital district will leave for Nepal on Tuesday. It is decided that the entry gate at Sharda barrage in Banbasa will remain open from 6 am to 10 am daily for such Nepalese migrants. Entry gate will not be opened for all,” Pandey said.He said Indians stuck in Nepal will return on May 29 and 30 as per schedule. Only those Indians will be allowed to come who have already registered their names with the embassy in Kathmandu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-than-1-500-stranded-nepalese-sent-to-nepal-via-champawat-barrage/story-h59qkhzNAxdvZaMsgRGzsI.html
25-05-2020||India||Over 24k samples collected for random antibody tests||The Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) has collected around 24,000 blood samples from 60 districts in 21 states over the past two weeks for a sero-survey (a test of blood serum) to check for exposure to the Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the general population.The cross-sectional survey of adults aged 18 years or more will detect infection in the community by testing for the presence of antibodies against Sars-CoV2 that are found in the blood of people who have recovered from it. Representative samples were taken from 60 districts chosen from among four categories based on reported Covid-19 cases per million population -- zero, low (0.1-4.7), medium ( 4.8-10) and high (>10). Four hundred samples from 15 districts from each stratum were selected randomly, according to ICMR.The first batch of about 70% samples was dispatched to a central laboratory in Tamil Nadu for analysis on Sunday, and the results are expected in about three weeks.“By end of this week the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-National Institute for Research in Tuberculosis in Chennai (Tamil Nadu) that has been identified as the central lab to do the analysis, should receive all samples,” said an ICMR official, who did not wish to be identified.This community-based survey will hold the key for getting several vital clues on the disease trend, testing and so on in the country, experts said. “If more people have antibodies and never detected that means the infection is widely present. It is a good thing that only few are getting ended up with complications and death. Indirectly it is also a way of knowing whether enough tests are being done,” says Dr Girdhar R Babu, head, life course epidemiology, Public Health Foundation of India . The blood samples will be tested for IgG antibodies using ELISA method (IgG is an antibody that develops later as compared to the other antibodies and therefore confirms a past infection). ELISA is an enzyme-based laboratory test that detects and quantifies antibodies in blood. The 21 states from where samples have been taken are Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, West Bengal, and Jammu & Kashmir.Additionally, about 5,000 samples have been picked from 10 hotspot cities with maximum case load: Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Thane, Pune, Indore, Kolkata, Hyderabad, and Aurangabad.“Conducting population-based sero-surveillance for Sars-CoV-2 will estimate and monitor the trend of infection in the adult general population, determine the socio-demographic risk factors and delineate the geographical spread of the infection,” said a recently published ICMR document. It added: “Such serosurveys repeated at regular intervals can also guide containment measures in respective areas. State-specific context of disease burden, priorities and resources should guide the use of multifarious surveillance options for the current COVID-19 epidemic.”“We are likely to repeat the survey depending on what results we get,” said the ICMR official.Apart from the sero-survey, the Union health ministry has a hospital-based active surveillance plan using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests among healthcare workers, outpatient department patients, and pregnant women in all districts. At least 10 hospitals--six public and four private --will be selected from each district for the sampling, with an overall target of lifting 800 samples a month. These two surveys are in addition to the random testing of about 250 severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and influenza-like illness (ILI) cases that the Centre has advised all states to conduct in each district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-24k-samples-collected-for-random-antibody-tests/story-Pec8jZE03DMQ0zOQwr4KEN.html
25-05-2020||India||Given a choice, more than 50% travellers arriving in Goa opt out of Covid-19 test||Only 26 of the 66 passengers who arrived in Goa on Monday in the first two flights opted to take a coronavirus test on the first day since flights restarted, Health Secretary Nila Mohanan informed. Of the 13 flights that were scheduled to land in Goa, 10 were cancelled leaving only three flights to land in the state -- one from Bengaluru and two from New Delhi. “The first flight arrived from Bengaluru with 30 passengers 15 of whom opted to take the Covid-19 test while from the second flight which arrived from New Delhi carrying 33 passengers 11 opted to take the test,” Mohanan said. All passengers tested negative for coronavirus. “The third flight (from New Delhi) is scheduled later in the evening,” Mohanan said. With the recommencement of flights, the Goa government modified its standard operating procedure to make the coronavirus test upon arrival only optional with the passengers being given an option to choose between a coronavirus test and home quarantine. Symptomatic patients, and people who have come in from abroad will be mandatorily tested while those who can produce a Covid-19 free certificate from a registered ICMR lab are free to go. The Goa government was bracing for 2000 flight arrivals however only around 100 arrivals are expected owing to the spate of cancellations. Goa has now registered 67 cases of the coronavirus, 19 of whom have recovered leaving the active case count at 48 -- all of whom arrived in the state within the last two weeks after inter-state travel restrictions were eased. Another person tested Covid-19 positive on Monday being the co-traveller of a person who travelled to Goa and was detected positive two days ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/given-a-choice-more-than-50-travellers-arriving-in-goa-opt-out-of-covid-19-test/story-5hvsUbma6YHr7B3zOyTQUP.html
25-05-2020||India||With 4 new patients, Covid-19 cases climb to 36 in Manipur||With four new positive cases, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the northeastern state of Manipur has increased to 36, while the total number of active cases stands at 32, officials said on Monday.Earlier, four coronavirus positive patients had already recovered and been discharged from hospitals.The four new cases are from Churachandpur, Noney, Kangpokpi and Senapati districts, according to three separate press releases issued on Monday.“With this, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases has increased to 36,” Dr Khoirom Sasheekumar Mangang, Additional Deputy Director and spokesperson of the state health department said.On Saturday, two coronavirus positive patients from Tengnoupal district recovered and were discharged from a hospital in Imphal. Manipur’s first two positive cases of Covid-19 have fully recovered and were discharged from hospitals on April 12 and 21 respectively.The number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state is on the rise after the arrival of stranded people from various states. So far more than 10,000 people have returned to Manipur by road, according to official reports.Meanwhile with the resumption of domestic flight services in the country, altogether 448 people of the state who were stranded due to the nationwide lockdown to check the Covid-19 pandemic, arrived at the Bir Tikendrajit International Airport in Imphal by four different flights from different cities on Tuesday.“On their arrival, they were screened for fever through the newly installed whole body thermal scanner,” the Covid-19 common control room said in a press release. Later the returnees were transported to the respective institutional/community quarantine centres.Those who have returned by flight will remain in the quarantine centres till they test negative or till completion of 14 days, the statement said.“All passengers shall remain in quarantine centres for further testing,” reads the new Standard Operating Procedure (SoP) of the state home department.As on Monday, 5,041 people were tested for Covid-19 while 2,19,549 were screened at various entry points, according to official reports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-4-new-patients-covid-19-cases-climb-to-36-in-manipur/story-TWja3JcTnPlLV5x5jVoZbO.html
25-05-2020||India||In Eid outreach, Amit Shah lets 120 Kashmiri prisoners in 3 states make a phone call home||Over 120 prisoners from Jammu and Kashmir lodged in nine north Indian jails were permitted to call up home on Eid at the instance of Union Home Minister Amit Shah, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times.The home minister had recently issued instructions to compile a list of Kashmiris who are behind bars in various prisons so that they could be extended this concession, a government official said.In all, 122 prisoners in three states, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi were allowed to speak to their family members. Officials said 106 of the prisoners were in six UP jails while another 15 were lodged in Haryana jails.This concession was not extended to people being tried in terror cases.The gesture, the official said, was an attempt to bring some happiness in the lives of the prisoners and their families back home in Kashmir. Unlike other prisoners, prisoners from Kashmir do not have many visitors due to logistical reasons.It also means that for people who are not accused in terror-related cases, the government is willing to take a sympathetic view and go an extra mile.“But for those involved in terror, you saw what happened in the morning,” the official said, a reference to the encounter in south Kashmir’s Kulgam earlier in the day.Two men, accused of being operatives of the ISJK (The Islamic State in Jammu and Kashmir, were shot dead in an encounter. One of them was identified by security forces as Adil Ahmad Wani alias Abu Ibrahim and the second, Shaheen Bashir Thoker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-eid-outreach-amit-shah-lets-120-kashmiri-prisoners-in-3-states-call-valley-home/story-5Frhwp0IRcd6gX0LfS3UlI.html
25-05-2020||India||Heatwave intensifies in northern India, Churu hottest at 47.5 deg Celsius||Heatwave conditions intensified in most of the northern states of India on Monday, with Churu in Rajasthan scorching at 47.5 degrees Celsius and the mercury breaching the 46-degree mark in parts of the national capital.While the daytime temperatures in most of Rajasthan were around 45-47 degrees Celsius, Punjab and Haryana too sizzled, with Narnaul recording the highest of 45.8 degrees Celsius. Allahabad was the hottest in Uttar Pradesh at 46.3 degrees Celsius.The India Meteorological Department (IMD), which had issued a red colour-coded alert for north India for May 25-26 when the prevailing heatwave conditions are expected to peak, said dust and thunderstorms are likely to bring some relief on May 29-30.The heatwave continued to sweep the national capital, with the weather office issuing an “orange” warning for parts of Delhi on Tuesday.The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded a high of 44 degrees Celsius, four notches more than normal.Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the IMD, said some respite from the stifling heat is expected on May 28 due to a fresh western disturbance and easterly winds at lower levels. In Rajasthan, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot appealed to the people to stay indoors and drink as much water as possible. Intense heat wave conditions were likely at some places in Jodhpur, Bikaner, Jaipur, Ajmer, Bharatpur and Kota divisions, the weather office in Jaipur said.Due to the activation of the western disturbance, light rains are expected in Jodhpur, Bikaner, Jaipur and Bharatpur on Friday and Saturday, it added. Stifling heat gripped Punjab and neighbouring Haryana. In Haryana, Hisar sizzled at 45 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal limits while Bhiwani recorded a high of 43.1 degrees Celsius.Karnal, too, braved intense heat at 43 degrees Celsius, up five notches against normal limits.In Punjab, Patiala recorded a high of 43.6 degrees Celsius, up by five degrees. Amritsar and Ludhiana too recorded above-normal maximums of 42.8 degrees Celsius and 43.1 degrees Celsius, respectively.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, also experienced a hot day at 42 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal limits.In Uttar Pradesh, day temperatures rose appreciably over Varanasi, Faizabad, and Lucknow divisions as blistering heat gripped many parts of the state.The weatherman has forecast dry conditions in the state and warned of heatwave at isolated places over the next few days.The weather office said rain and thunderstorm were “very likely” at isolated places over eastern Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday.Heat wave conditions are also likely in isolated pockets over Punjab, Chhattisgarh, interior Odisha, Gujarat, Madhya Maharashtra, Marathawada, interior Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Bihar and Jharkhand during the next two-three days, the IMD said.In large areas, a heat wave is declared when the maximum temperature is 45 degrees Celsius for two consecutive days and a severe heat wave is when the mercury touches the 47-degree Celsius mark for two days on the trot.In small areas, like Delhi, heat wave is declared if the temperature soars to 45 degrees Celsius even for a day, according to the IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heatwave-intensifies-in-northern-india-churu-hottest-at-47-5-deg-celsius/story-uXYApkpmSpgVrcFqQpC66K.html
25-05-2020||India||Rajasthan minor dalit girl gang-raped, 17-week pregnant, accused absconding||A 13-year-old scheduled caste girl is 17-week pregnant after she was gang-raped by three men of her village in Bharatpur four months ago, said police on Monday. Doctors found out about her pregnancy when the girl complained of abdominal pain and was taken to hospital on Saturday. The girl’s parents registered a case against the three on Monday.According to the FIR, the three men dragged the girl to a mustard field in a village under the Kaman police station about four months ago. They gagged her and gang-raped her there.The girl’s mother said the girl complained of abdominal pain and was taken to a private hospital in Kaman on May 23, where doctors found through ultrasound examination that she was pregnant for 17 weeks.After this, the girl told her parents about the sexual assault, police said. She said the three have raped her multiple times in the last four months.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesKaman police station in-charge Dharmesh Dayma said a case has been registered against the three named accused, who are absconding.“Her medical examination was done today; the report will come on Tuesday. We will also take her to a magistrate on Tuesday for her statement under section 164 of the CrPC,” said Kaman circle officer Devendra Singh Rajawat, the investigating officer in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-minor-dalit-girl-gang-raped-17-week-pregnant-accused-absconding/story-7Ot27rgEn3WEwXWs8q1XtK.html
25-05-2020||India||Indian Army chief’s remarks ‘hurt sentiments of Nepali Gurkhas’, says minister||The Indian Army chief’s remarks about Nepal acting at the behest of others in raising a border dispute has “hurt the sentiments of the Nepali Gurkha army personnel who lay down their lives to protect India”, Nepal’s defence minister Ishwar Pokhrel has said.Days after Indian Army chief Gen Manoj Mukund Naravane made the comments, which were seen as a veiled reference to a possible Chinese role in the border row, Pokhrel dismissed the remarks as a “political stunt”.The Nepal government recently protested against the opening of a new road to Lipulekh by defence minister Rajnath Singh to facilitate people making the pilgrimage to Kailash Mansarovar in Tibet. India rejected the protest by saying the road was within Indian territory. Nepal then published a new map showing Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadura, which fall within India, as part of Nepalese territory.In an interview with Nepal’s news agency Rastriya Samachar Samiti, Pokhrel said the Indian Army chief’s remarks “have come in an embarrassing manner” at a time when Nepal has been trying resolve the border issue through diplomatic dialogue.“No matter what background and circumstance is it based on, such statements are an effort to offend sovereign and independent Nepal and prideful Nepalis… With this, the Indian CoAS [chief of army staff] has also hurt the sentiments of the Nepali Gurkha army personnel who lay down their lives to protect India. It must now become difficult for them to stand tall in front of the Gurkha forces…In fact, the statement by the Indian CoAS seems to be a political stunt,” Pokhrel said.He added, “How professional is it for the head of the army to make a political statement? We don’t have anything like that here. Nepali Army does not go vocal on such matter. Army is not there to speak. Nepali Army is a fully professional military force. It would definitely play its role in the right time, as per the directives of the government based on our Constitution.”Pokhrel, who is also the deputy prime minister, described India as “our friendly state” and said the “lost Nepali territory must be returned through peaceful political dialogue and through diplomatic channel, and I am confident that it is possible”.There was no immediate response from the Indian side to Pokhrel’s remarks.Pokhrel also said this was the “first time in history” that the Nepal government had written an official letter to the Indian government “saying Nepali land at the Nepal-India border region has been encroached and this should be stopped”. He added, “We have raised this topic on the basis of the historical facts, proof and treaties available to us. We have issued the new map of Nepal on the basis of this.”He reiterated that Nepal had been seeking talks on the border issue since the Indian government issued its new political and administrative maps of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh on November 2 last year.“Now, serious political and diplomatic initiatives have to be immediately pursued on the basis of the combined force based on common and unified stance of the political forces of the entire nation as well as of historical facts and evidences. Infrastructure development and comprehensive security plan needs to be implemented in that area,” he said.Pokhrel said the Nepal government had published its new political map after it didn’t receive “any immediate positive response to the communication we sent” to India for talks on the border issue.There are more than 30,000 Nepalese Gurkhas serving in the Gurkha Rifles regiments of the Indian Army.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-chief-s-remarks-hurt-sentiments-of-nepali-gurkhas-says-minister/story-0lqL7aD1wcGniRxcM1siGK.html
25-05-2020||India||Covid 19 latest: 65% of Bihar’s rapidly rising tally made up of migrants arriving in droves, officials worried||Bihar’s Covid-19 tally has seen a rapid rise with the doubling of total cases in the last 10 days, when 1,465 new cases were recorded, 1,000 of those were registered in the last 6 days alone.On each day since the beginning of lockdown 4, at least 100 infections have been registered in the state. Positive cases detected between May 16 and 25 alone constitute 55.42% of Bihar’s total tally, triggering concerns about what may lay ahead amid the continuing influx of migrant labourers.On Monday, the total number of people infected by the deadly virus spiraled to 2,686, with the addition of 112 new cases detected in the last 24 hours, 21 of those were reported from Saharsa district. 180 positive cases were found on Sunday.The highest single day spike in the state-- 257 cases-- was reported on May 20.Patna tops the chart with 200 confirmed cases followed by Rohtas district that has 166 positive patients, Munger and Begusarai are joint third with 148 cases each, said health department officials.Of the 112 cases registered on Monday, 21 were from Saharsa, 10 of those found in one block-Kahra. Darbhanga reported 13 positive cases, Madhubani,10, Katihar and Begusarai reported 9 each, Patna,8, Bhojpur,7, Araria,6, Gopalganj, Khagaria, Arwal, Bhagalpur and Supaul accounted for 3 cases each, Saran, Siwan, Aurangabad and Munger reported 2 cases each, and Nalanda, Sheikhpura, Samastipur, Lakhisarai, Madhepura and Rohtas had one new case each.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesHealth department officials said 733 patients have recovered so far. They added that a total of 66,148 tests have been conducted in the state until now.The rising trend of the positive cases is unlikely to change as it is driven by the continued reverse migration of migrant labourers who now account for 1,754 of the total 2,686 positive cases—a staggering 65% contribution.It is not just the deluge of new cases but also the challenge of tracing and tracking their contacts, that is keeping the officials on the toes.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19On Monday, 1,96,350 passengers arrived by 119 trains, on Tuesday 1,76,900 passengers would be arriving in108 trains. The arrival of labourers by road has also continued unabated.Analysis of positive cases found on Monday shows that 15.3% of all new cases were returnees from Delhi, 15% had returned from Maharashtra and 10.27% had arrived from Gujarat.IPRD secretary Anupam Kumar said chief minister Nitish Kumar has instructed officials to add more isolation centres besides adding beds in dedicated hospitals.With detection of one case each in Samanpura and Lodipur in the state capital, the two areas would become new containment zones. A district administration official said Khajpura and Machli Gali besides the BMP headquarters, which are close to Samanpura, were recently marked containment zones after positive cases were found there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-latest-65-of-bihar-s-rapidly-rising-tally-made-up-of-migrants-arriving-in-droves-officials-worried/story-5tDB3HjjGhfbNcD7GdSJ2M.html
25-05-2020||India||Odisha reports biggest single-day spike of 103 new Covid-19 cases||Odisha on Monday reported its highest-ever single-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 103 new infections including a BJP leader in Deogarh district testing positive for the coronavirus disease. It was the third time this month that the state reported more than 100 positive cases in a day. With this, Odisha’s tally of Covid-19 infections has gone up to 1,438 with around half these cases in hospitals. Ganjam district, the Covid epicentre leads with 353 positive cases followed by Jajpur with 240 and Balasore with 133 cases. The virus has so far claimed seven lives in the state.Of the 103 fresh coronavirus cases reported on Monday, Deogarh district registered the highest number of 22 cases, including a 54-year-old BJP leader, a 38-year-old school teacher and a 46 year-old ASHA worker who was working in a quarantine centre. The BJP leader’s son had returned from Maharashtra this month and was in home quarantine. Though the son tested negative, the BJP leader tested positive.The steady rise comes amid increasing incidence of violation of quarantine norms by those people coming back home from other states as well as those in home quarantine. In Koraput district, a man’s swab samples was found Covid-19 positive soon after he fled home quarantine. The businessman from Visakhapatnam was under home quarantine in Jeypore town but after a few days, he left for Visakhapatnam without informing anyone.“Our team had visited his place yesterday and again today and as per enquiry conducted by our team from his contacts, he has left for West Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh to attend his sister’s death rituals,” said Koraput district collector Madhusudan Mishra. Congress MLA of Jeypore, Tara Bahinipati, later asked the Vishakhapatnam district collector to get the Covid-19 positive businessman admitted in a local hospital there.Meanwhile,in two separate incidents, around 500 migrant workers on-board Shramik Special trains from Maharashtra and Gujarat, pulled emergency chains and got down at some places in Odisha.Around 200 migrants travelling on a Shramik Special train that was on its way to Bokaro (Jharkhand) from Kolhapur (Maharashtra) pulled the emergency chain near Nuagaon station on the Odisha-Jharkhand border and alighted the train.In another incident, around 300 migrants of Bargarh and Naupada got down at Kantabanji railway station in Bolangir district reportedly after pulling the emergency chain. The train was on its way from Gandhidham in Gujarat to Cuttack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-reports-103-new-covid-19-cases-its-highest-single-day-spike/story-kwVnHxlm6TQVgv5m5npCxJ.html
25-05-2020||India||9 migrants found dead in Telangana’s Warangal killed by fellow worker: Cops||The Telangana police on Monday said it has solved the mystery behind the death of nine migrant workers, including six of the same family, whose bodies were recovered from an abandoned well on the outskirts of Warangal town on Friday last.Warangal city police commissioner V Ravinder announced that all the nine persons were murdered by another migrant worker to cover up another murder he had committed in March. The killer was identified as Sanjay Kumar Yadav, 24, from Bihar.The police had recovered nine bodies, said the commissioner, from a well at Gorrekunta village of Geesugonda block on the outskirts of Warangal. The deceased were identified as Md Maqsood (55), his wife Nisha (48), sons Shahabad Alam (21) and Sohail Alam (18), daughter Bushra (20) and her three years old son Shoaib (all from the same family from West Bengal), Sriram (21) and Shyam (22) from Bihar, besides Shakil (30) from Tripura.All the elders were working in a gunny bags manufacturing unit at Geesugonda and staying in the same company premises since the enforcement of lockdown in March.The police initially thought they all had committed mass suicide owing to financial constraints or some other family reasons, including a suspected illicit affair between the Bihari youth and Bushra, who had divorced her husband a year ago.“After going through the evidence available at the spot, examining the footage from the closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras and post-mortem report, we came to the conclusion that it was a cold-blooded murder by Sanjay Kumar Yadav, who came from Bihar six years ago and was working in the same factory,” Ravinder said.According to the police commissioner, Yadav had an illicit relationship with Rafiqa (37), a divorcee sister-in-law of Maqsood, who came from West Bengal to see his brother and stayed with them till recently.“Rafiqa, along with her three children, started living with Yadav separately. But she later realised that Yadav was also trapping her teenaged daughter. Unable to bear it, she threatened to expose him,” Ravinder said.Soon after Yadav hatched a conspiracy to eliminate Rafiqa. He promised to marry her and left for West Bengal with her on March 6. During their journey, the police said, he gave her buttermilk laced with sedatives and then strangulated her with her dupatta and threw her body out from the train at Nidubrolu in West Godavari district. He got down at Rajahmundry and quietly returned to Warangal, the police added.After a few days, when Maqsood enquired about Rafiqa, Yadav told him that she stayed back with her family in West Bengal. When nothing was heard from her family members even after two months, Maqsood grew suspicious and started questioning Yadav. He even threatened to complain to the police.Fearing trouble, Yadav then decided to kill all the family members of Maqsood, said police. He is alleged to have bought sleeping pills from a medical shop and on May 20 attended the birthday party hosted by Maqsood for his son. He is reported to have mixed the pills in the food. “After ensuring that all of them were unconscious, Yadav dragged all the nine to the well one after the other and threw them into it between 12.30 am to 5 am on Thursday,” Ravinder said.Based on the evidence, the police were able to track Yadav and arrest him. “During interrogation, he confessed to committing the crime,” the Commissioner said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-migrants-found-dead-in-telangana-s-warangal-killed-by-fellow-worker-cops/story-KFy5NDVxVc5TkQN8W4yEpJ.html
25-05-2020||India||PM Modi reaffirms India’s support to Bangladesh in addressing Covid-19 challenges||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday conveyed greetings on the occasion of Eid-ul-Fitr to his Bangladesh counterpart Sheikh Hasina as the two leaders shared their assessment of damage caused by cyclone Amphan in both countries.Modi, who spoke on telephone with Hasina, also discussed the Covid-19 pandemic and ongoing collaboration between the two countries. Modi reaffirmed India’s support to Bangladesh in addressing these challenges, the external affairs ministry said.He conveyed his best wishes for the good health and well-being of Hasina and the friendly people of Bangladesh.Modi also spoke on telephone with Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi, and conveyed greetings on the occasion of Eid-ul-Fitr.The two leaders expressed satisfaction at effective cooperation between the two sides during the Covid-19 pandemic. Modi thanked the Crown Prince for support extended to Indian citizens in the United Arab Emirates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reaffirms-india-s-support-to-bangladesh-in-addressing-covid-19-challenges/story-KQKhSY23F18zhWmssQ0cOM.html
25-05-2020||India||Odisha’s order to sell liquor online flouted in Bhubaneswar, people queue up outside stores||Odisha government’s order of selling liquor online went for a toss as people gathered in large numbers at several liquor shops in Bhubaneswar on Monday, flouting the government notification.The State Excise department in a notification on Saturday  said that home delivery of liquor will be allowed by existing Indian Made Foreign Liquor outlets in areas other than Covid containment zones and shopping malls. A ‘special Covid fee’, amounting to 50% over the MRP of the liquor was to be charged to generate additional revenue for the state government. There had been a complete ban on sale of liquor in the state for the past two months during lockdown before the state government allowed online sale from May 24. Despite the government order that liquor can be ordered only through online and delivered by delivery platforms Zomato or Swiggy to buyers, hundreds of people queued up in front of IMFL outlets in the state capital on Monday.The reasons for the long queues varied from people not registering online to some who didn’t want their families to know they drank. “Though the government has said liquor can be sold online, we can’t risk ordering it as our family members would know about our drinking if the liquor was delivered at home. I had ordered liquor online, but I came to the liquor outlet to collect it myself,” said a buyer, who outside a liquor store. Several others who stood in the lines were those who had not registered online, till police intervened to stop the offline sale.Later in the day, police and excise department in Bhubaneswar had a meeting in which it was decided that no IMFL outlet will sell liquor offline. However, in other areas of the state, IMFL outlets remained closed for buyers and liquor was being sold through online.Meanwhile, a resident of Bhubaneswar fell prey to cyber fraud, losing Rs 1.36 lakh after placing an online order for liquor. Anjan Barik came across a post on the Internet that claimed to take orders for home delivery of liquor from a shop named Kadambari. When Barik called the number shared in the post, the receiver asked him to pay Rs 200 through PhonePe. When he sent Rs 200 to the PhonePe account, the person at the other end sent him a barcode and asked him to scan it. When Barik scanned the barcode, a sum of Rs 1.36 lakh was deducted from his bank account in four phases. Later, he lodged a complaint with Mancheswar police.In another such incident, a banker in Bhubaneswar was duped of Rs 19,000 after placing an online order for liquor last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-s-order-to-sell-liquor-online-flouted-in-bhubaneswar-people-queue-up-outside-stores/story-0CKZmqlk2gU2D8ups88qqL.html
25-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Assam Covid-19 tally past 500 with biggest single day spike of 122 cases and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Assam Covid-19 tally past 500 with biggest single day spike of 122 casesWith 122 new patients detected on Monday, the single biggest spike in a day for the state, the number of Covid-19 positive patients in Assam crossed the 500 figure mark. Read more. In India’s Covid-19 testing strategy, a hard push from PM Modi and a dose of realityAs India crosses the 1 lakh tests per day milestone and begins work on the next, a senior government official on Monday underlined that India’s testing strategy had evolved to try “remain ahead of the virus” despite the healthcare infrastructure constraints and ensure that the testing facilities were not overwhelmed in any part of the country. Read more. Uttarakhand officer dies during Covid-19 training, colleagues thought he was sleepingA 47-year-old government officer heading a Covid-19 city response team (CRT) in Uttarakhand’s Udham Singh Nagar district died during a training programme on Sunday while his colleagues thought he was sleeping, said officials. Read more. Have huge admiration for Sunil Gavaskar: Karsan Ghavri on comparisons between Gavaskar, Tendulkar and KohliKarsan Ghavri, the former India left-arm pacer, is clear in his thoughts when he says he won’t be making comparisons between Sunil Gavaskar, Sachin Tendulkar and Virat Kohli. Read more. Salman Khan’s bodyguard Shera shares photo of his Eid celebrations at Panvel farmhouseSalman Khan’s bodyguard Shera, who has been overseeing the star’s security for more than two and a half decades now, shared a picture with him and wished fans on Eid. Read more. TikTok rating on Google Play now 1.5 stars, more reviews deletedTikTok’s overall rating on Google Play Store went down to 1-star following hoards of negative reviews for the app. But these negative reviews are also getting deleted with the app’s rating on Google Play now standing at 1.5 stars.Read more. Meet Chef Kobe, the 1-year-old chef taking the internet by storm with his culinary cutenessThe internet has been a worthy companion throughout our adventures of staying home under lockdown and finding ways to inspire and motivate ourselves, or just learn the art of doing nothing and embracing peace, away from traffic and daily stress. Read more. ‘Put Gandhis on quarantine till Covid situation ends’: BJP MP Parvesh VermaBJP MP Parvesh Verma attacked the Gandhi family and said that they should be put on quarantine till the Covid situation is over. He said that while people of the country are whole heartedly backing PM Modi in the battle against Coronavirus, the three leaders of the Congress were misleading the nation. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-assam-covid-19-tally-past-500-with-biggest-single-day-spike-of-122-cases-and-all-the-latest-news/story-uPSXNamOd2955xOBCvu64I.html
25-05-2020||India||Plan to auction Tirumala temple properties kicks up row, chairman clarifies||A recent proposal of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams that manages India’s richest temple Tirumala in Chittoor district of Andhra Pradesh, to auction as many as 50 immovable properties of the temple located in different states, has triggered protests from opposition parties and Hindu religious groups.On Monday, the TTD clarified that no final decision had been taken yet on this. “It was just a proposal which would be discussed at the next trust board meeting after taking into consideration suggestions from all quarters,” TTD trust board chairman Y V Subba Reddy told reporters in Tirupati.He said the decision to auction 50 “unviable” properties was taken by the erstwhile trust board during the Telugu Desam Party’s regime in January 2016, based on a recommendation made by a sub-committee appointed for the purpose.“At the TTD trust board meeting held in February this year, it was decided to examine the earlier resolution and suggest a plan of action for auctioning of the properties,” he clarified.Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) is mulling the idea of auctioning 50 immovable properties located at different places in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Rishikesh in Uttarakhand.On April 30, the TTD listed out as many as 23 properties situated in various parts of Tamil Nadu, including Vellore, Kancheepuram and Thiruvalluvar districts, for auctioning, with the total upset price (base price) of these properties being Rs 2 crore.The properties proposed for auction include houses, house sites, vacant lands and agricultural lands. While the house sites measure between one cent to five cents, the agricultural lands measure around 10 cents to less than an acre.The TTD chairman said properties donated by devotees to the hill shrine several decades ago were non-maintainable and non- revenue generating for TTD as they were very petty and unviable. There are another 26 properties in Andhra Pradesh and one piece of land in Rishikesh.The decision triggered a lot of uproar in political circles as well as religious groups and individuals.Bharatiya Janata Party Andhra Pradesh unit president Kanna Lakshminarayana demanded that the temple withdraw the proposal to sell the properties gifted to the Lord by devotees as it would hurt the sentiments of the community.The BJP called upon all its leaders and cadres to host a ‘SaveLordBalajiLands’ slogan as DP for their social media accounts. The slogan is trending as BJP’s top leaders GVL Narasimha Rao, Sunil Deodhar, state president Kanna Lakshminarayana and all other leaders have changed their DP accordingly.Jana Sena party president Pawan Kalyan lashed out at the temple trust board for the decision that would be likely to hurt the sentiments of devotees.Temples’ protection movement convenor CS Rangarajan appealed to the government to form a Dharmika Parishad to govern the assets of temples. He expressed the fear that the TTD’s decision would set a precedent for all temples for selling properties donated by devotees.The Vishwa Hindu Parishad threatened the YS Jagan Reddy-led government with launching Kar Seva, if the decision to sell God’s properties is not withdrawn.The TTD chairman, however, said as per the rules, the TTD Board was competent to sell, exchange and mortgage immovable properties, if found beneficial to TTD.He said that the practice of selling immovable, non-maintainable and non-useful properties had been in vogue since 1974. Between 1974-2014, about 129 such immovable properties which were not useful to TTD were disposed of in public auction.Subba Reddy also appealed to devotees not to get carried away by false propaganda by vested interests aimed to create confusion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plan-to-auction-tirumala-temple-properties-kicks-up-row-chairman-clarifies/story-748LNEtqpbLQoDV1xjRDzO.html
25-05-2020||India||5.5 magnitude earthquake hits Manipur||An earthquake hit the Northeastern state of Manipur on late Monday evening, according to National Center for Seismology, Ministry of Earth Sciences,Government of India’s preliminary locations report of the earthquake.The earthquake struck at 8:12 pm and was measured at 5.5 on the Richter magnitude scale. The epicenter of the earthquake is said to be 15 km west of Moirang town in Manipur’s Bishnupur district, the report said.“Many people ran out of their respective houses in my locality when we felt the tremor,” says a resident of Ningthoukhong town in Bishnupur district. Residents of Imphal also witnessed the same. But there were no reports of any damage or loss of lives in the state till the publication of this report.Residents of Imphal West,Imphal East, Churachandpur, Senapati, Ukhrul,Thoubal districts of the state when contacted on phone reported that they felt the tremor.As per the National Center for Seismology reports, two very low intensity earthquakes were also recorded at two different locations of Manipur (43 and 66 km east of Ukhrul) on May 22.Almost all districts of Manipur are said to be under the Zone V among earthquake-prone areas.The entire North-east part of India is considered to be one of the most earthquake-vulnerable regions in the world.On January 4, 2016, Manipur witnessed a strong earthquake measuring 6.7 on the Richter scale which claimed eight lives and damaging many houses and structures including the iconic ‘Ima keithel’ (mothers market) in Imphal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earthquake-hits-manipur-jolts-northeast-region/story-aPH92N5P7tF6qlhHkCVldL.html
25-05-2020||India||‘Red alert’ issued for Vidarbha till May 31 due to heatwave||The weather bureau issued a ‘red alert’ for heatwave conditions for the entire Vidarbha sub-division, with a specific ‘severe heatwave’ warning for Akola, Nagpur, Chandrapur and Gondia districts for the next three days. On Monday, Akola recorded its highest day temperature for the season at 47.4 degrees Celsius, 5.5 degrees Celsius above normal, while Nagpur, which was the second hottest location in India on Saturday and Sunday, recorded 47 degrees Celsius, 4 degrees above normal. “No relief can be expected from hot weather for Vidarbha region till May 31,” said ML Sahu, deputy director general of meteorology, India Meteorological Department (Nagpur). “Hot and dry northwesterly winds from Gujarat and Rajasthan region continue to flow over this region, raising temperatures, and till there are pre-monsoon showers or wind pattern changes, the present scenario will continue.”IMD issues colour coded warnings based on the intensity of weather events in a particular region, ascending from ‘green’ (no warning), ‘yellow’ (be updated), ‘orange’ (be prepared), and ‘red’ (take action). A ‘red alert’ warning directs citizens to take “extreme care needed for vulnerable people”, while the health impact statement read, “Very high likelihood of developing heat illnesses and heat stroke to all ages”.Of the 11 districts in Vidarbha, the ‘red alert’ has been issued for four, ‘orange alert’ for three (Wardha, Yavatmal and Amravati), and ‘yellow alert’ for the remaining districts (Buldhana, Washim, Gadchiroli, and Bhramapuri). Meanwhile, a ‘yellow alert’ has been issued for other parts of Maharashtra, including Jalgaon, Nashik, Ahmednagar and Solapur till Wednesday, while Parbhani, Beed, Hingoli and Nanded are likely to witness heatwave conditions in isolated pockets till Wednesday, said IMD.The Konkan region, which includes Mumbai, witnessed normal temperatures on Monday. The day temperature at the Santacruz weather observatory was 33.7 degrees Celsius, close to the normal-mark, while Colaba recorded 34.2 degrees Celsius, a degree above normal. Moisture levels were high, with Colaba and Santacruz recording 89% and 77% humidity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/red-alert-issued-for-vidarbha-till-may-31-due-to-heatwave/story-GJtjy6pbtcwIFtiiDCQflL.html
25-05-2020||India||Sadanand Gowda flies to Bengaluru, gives quarantine a go-by. New SOP out||Union minister DV Sadananda Gowda flew in from Delhi to Bengaluru but did not proceed for the mandatory one week of institutional quarantine followed by another week of quarantine at home mandated by the state government.The minister for chemicals and fertilisers soon after arrival left in a private car even as other passengers were sent to compulsory one week of institutional quarantine mandated by the Karnataka government for any passengers coming from high risk states like Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Delhi.Gowda, speaking to the media, claimed that being a minister he was exempt from the quarantine rules. He accused the media of unnecessarily blowing up the issue.“I am also looking after Pharma. It is my duty to ensure that there is no shortage of medicine supply in the country. If I don’t do that then the number of cases will double,” he said, adding ,“If doctors are quarantined, if people who supply medicines are quarantined, how will we beat the virus?”His assistant claimed that Gowda had come with a negative Covid-19 test report conducted by an ICMR approved lab but refused to elaborate further.In an SOP released shortly after the controversy erupted, Pankaj Kumar Pandey, state commissioner of health and family welfare, said, “The ministers of union government or state governments or officers on their official duty who are travelling across states will be exempted from the requirements of quarantine as has been done for health professionals and others.”The Karnataka Congress, however, questioned the union minister giving the quarantine a go-by.“…(Sadananda Gowda) flouts all Covid norms, lands from Delhi and walks away without quarantine period. The Karnataka government rules have no exemption for anyone. How come he comes up with his own rules? Is he not putting all his primary contacts under health risk? Why no action?” tweeted the Karnataka Congress.BJP spokesperson, Prakash, said the minister has already clarified his stand on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sadanand-gowda-lands-in-bengaluru-goes-home-giving-quarantine-a-go-by/story-AE0z4SEG1zGKYsjjkNS82M.html
25-05-2020||India||Assam flood situation worsens, over 30,000 in 5 districts affected||With heavy rains continuing in many parts of Assam on Monday, the flood situation is set to worsen in the state, where over 30,000 people in five out of 33 districts are affected.According to the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), a total of 128 villages in eight revenue circles of Lakhimpur, Dhemaji, Dibrugarh, Darrang and Goalpara districts were affected.With flood waters submerging several places in the affected districts, a total of 30,701 people were affected. In the worst affected Goalpara district, 33 relief camps have been set up where nearly 9,000 people are taking shelter.Flood waters have affected 579 hectares of crop area in Lakhimpur and Dhemaji districts, the ASDMA bulletin said. Nearly 12,000 domestic animals and poultry have also been affected.Most rivers in the state including the Brahmaputra and its tributaries witnessed a rise in water levels on Monday as well. Jia Bharali was flowing above the danger mark at Sonitpur while the Puthimari river crossed the red mark in Kamrup. Also Read: Assam Covid-19 tally past 500 with biggest single day spike of 122 cases||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-flood-situation-worsens-over-30-000-in-5-districts-affected/story-b44R19xqhsgMJY1JRMVvtM.html
25-05-2020||India||Assam Covid-19 tally past 500 with biggest single day spike of 147 cases||With 147 new patients detected on Monday, the single biggest spike in a day for the state, the number of Covid-19 positive patients in Assam crossed the 500 figure mark.The day started with 35 new cases from seven districts in the state including the first patient from Dhemaji, the only district out of 33 in Assam, which had not recorded any Covid-19 positive case till Sunday.Soon, 39 more patients were confirmed from three districts taking the state’s tally to 467 cases. By Monday late evening, 73 more patients were reported, taking the total to 540 cases.Five patients, who had tested negative in subsequent tests, were discharged during the day in Guwahati and Jorhat. At present, the state has 470 active cases, 63 recoveries, 4 deaths and 3 cases of positive persons migrating to other states.Assam recorded its first positive case on March 31 when a 52-year-old cancer patient was found to be infected with coronavirus. It took another 37 days for the figure to reach 50 on May 7 and just 10 days to double and reach the 100 figure mark on May 17.The figure doubled again to reach 200 cases four days later on May 21 and it crossed 400 cases in another four days on Monday. The latest surge in positive cases has happened in the past 7-10 days since the ban on inter-state movement was lifted on May 4.Of the total cases, nearly 400 are amongst people who have returned to the state by roads and railways in the past three weeks. Till Sunday afternoon, nearly 60,000 people had entered Assam from other states in the region and across the country.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19“The surge has happened in the past 7 days and hence our recovery rate has dropped to 16% in comparison to the national figure of 41%,” health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Sunday.“One positive aspect is that almost 90% of our total cases are of people who are in quarantine. We have adopted a policy of ruthless quarantine of 14 days for all returnees and it has helped prevent community outbreak of the disease,” said Sarma.A community surveillance campaign by the state government covered 25,000 villages in the state and recorded around 23,000 cases of people with fever. Tests conducted on a section of them who showed Covid-19 like symptoms have come negative for all.Sarma mentioned that a pro-active approach adopted in the past two months has helped Assam put adequate infrastructure in place and at present the state has capacity to treat nearly 5,000 Covid-19 patients.More cases likely with resumption of domestic flightsWith resumption of domestic flights from Monday, Assam now faces additional burden on quarantine facilities and the number of Covid-19 positive cases could also surge further.A total of 32 flights were expected to arrive at Guwahati’s Lokapriya Gopinath Bordoloi International Airport on Monday, but due to cancellations, only eight arrived. A total of 686 passengers landed on the first day. Himanta Biswa Sarma, senior Airport Authority of India officials, security personnel and state government officials were present at the airport to ensure the standard operating procedures (SOPs) prepared by Assam government were followed. All passengers were taken by government vehicles to their respective districts, where they will be placed in quarantine. Assam has declared 14 days of mandatory quarantine and Covid-19 tests for all passengers. Although there was an apprehension that chaos and confusion would mark the first day, it was avoided as most of the flights to Guwahati got cancelled. “Today the number of arriving passengers got reduced due to cancellations, but from Tuesday, we expect around 1,000 more passengers. The next few days will be a bit hectic, but I am sure we will be able to manage the situation,” Sarma told journalists at the airport. He added that the state government hopes the rush of returnees to end by the end of June so that they can be managed properly before the onset of floods in July. Also Read: Assam Police Recruitment 2020: 1081 vacancies notified, application begins today||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-covid-19-tally-past-500-with-biggest-single-day-spike-of-122-cases/story-zCzJYIrnid8PNlLOUSbEGK.html
25-05-2020||India||Uttarakhand doctors look to develop one clinical protocol for Covid-19 treatment||Uttarakhand health department is trying to develop a single treatment protocol for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients in the state on the lines of Kerala and Tamil Nadu.Amit Singh Negi, secretary, health, said a single treatment protocol is being developed in the hill state that can be followed across all the districts.“We’ve appointed nodal officers who are conducting videoconferences with doctors to learn about the best treatment methodology and implement them on patients accordingly. This way we’ll be giving the best possible care to our patients. We’re in touch with officials from other states such as Kerala, where the recovery rate is good,” said Negi.Dr. Ashutosh Sayana, principal of Government Doon Medical College, who is the nodal officer for the initiative, said that the officials are trying to arrive at a consensus on a single treatment plan for Covid-19 patients across the state.“Initially, the recovery rate was good for patients admitted at Doon Hospital. We thought of discussing the treatment plan with doctors from other hospitals in Uttarakhand, take their suggestions, and also share our views to form a single treatment protocol. We’ll also imbibe from the treatment models of Kerala and Tamil Nadu,” said Dr. Sayana.There would be uniformity with one treatment protocol and the best practices can be shared among doctors, he added.The health department is also focusing on ramping up the infrastructure in hospitals across the state, as the hill state reported over 200 Covid-19 positive cases over the past four days.On Saturday, Negi had asked all chief medical officers to improve health infrastructure in their districts.“All districts should ensure the installation of adequate number of ICU (intensive care unit) beds, ventilators, procurement of medicines and oxygen supply in a bid to tackle any extreme possible situation,” said Negi. He also urged the officials to give him a regular update about Covid-19 situation in their respective districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-doctors-look-to-develop-one-clinical-protocol-for-covid-19-treatment/story-6T5nP0SGhPFXAQg4yhhqgL.html
25-05-2020||India||Kerala reports 49 new coronavirus cases, total active cases at 359||Kerala reported 49 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases on Monday, including two prisoners and healthcare workers each, state health minister KK Shailaja said. Of the 49 new cases, 14 and 10 are reported from north Kerala’s Kasaragod and Kannur districts, respectively.Among the new Covid-19 positive cases, 18 people have come back from abroad, 25 returned from other states and six contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease, from other infected people locally, the minister said. She promised to ramp up efforts to contain the spread of the viral outbreak.There has been a recent spike in Covid-19 positive cases because of the return of stranded people from West Asian countries and other states across the country amid the easing of lockdown restrictions. An estimated one lakh people have returned to the state over the past two weeks. Kerala still has 359 active Covid-19 cases of the 896 reported to date. Around one lakh people are under quarantine, including 90% of them at their homes.Four more areas, including chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s home district Kannur, have been declared as hotspots.On Monday, the Vijayan-led government completed four years in office, but no celebrations were held because of the prevailing lockdown restrictions imposed to contain the viral outbreak.“We’re with our people and they also accept us in a big way. The state is a role model for many others. We’ll continue our best efforts. We have completed in four years what we had promised to accomplish in five years of our rule,” said the CM.The ruling Communist Party of India (M) hoped that its effective governance amid the pandemic would help gain political mileage.But the opposition Congress alleged that a lion’s share of the government funds was spent on unnecessary public relations (PR) exercise. “It’s a PR campaign at its best,” alleged opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-kerala-reports-49-new-cases/story-Mi4XM05TFpl52aK0zgmmcL.html
25-05-2020||India||Yogi wants migration commission set up on war footing, even as Raj Thackeray fumes over his proposal||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday has asked state officials to expedite the setting up of the migration commission meant to provide jobs to migrant workers returning to Uttar Pradesh due to the ongoing lockdown in the country and to safeguard their rights.The instruction comes amid a brewing political controversy that saw Maharashtra Navnirman Sena chief Raj Thackeray shoot a sharp retort to Adityanath’s claim made on Sunday that workers from UP were ill treated in other states, which, he added, will now have to obtain UP government’s permission to hire manpower from the state.“The migration commission will work in the interest of the migrant workers. If any other state wants UP’s manpower, they cannot take them away just like that. Those states will have to do it with the consent and permission of the UP government. The way our migrant workers were ill-treated in those states, the UP government will take their insurance, social security in its hands now. The UP government will stand with them wherever they work, whether in Uttar Pradesh, other states or other countries,” he had said.Following up on his assertion, Yogi issued the directives to constitute the commission on Monday at a meeting of his Team-11 convened to review the lockdown situation here.“Yes, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has asked for making efforts on a war-footing to set up the migration commission. The commission will be set up in the next few days in accordance with the existing provisions of law,” said chief secretary RK Tiwari.Asked if the state government would study the Centre’s Inter State Migrant Workmen Act or go for enacting a new law to set up the commission, Tiwari said, “Our basic objective is to watch the welfare of migrant labourers and ensure that they get their wages.”The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The state government’s proposal mandating prior permission for jobs in other states may, however, face legal scrutiny, with experts saying there can’t be any restriction on doing business in any part of the country.“The Constitution of India provides a fundamental right allowing every citizen free movement and the right to do business anywhere in India. The state government can enact any law for welfare of migrant labourers. It, however, cannot restrict these rights,” said former advisor to governor and legal expert CB Pandey.UP CM’s proposal has also not gone down well with Raj Thackeray who said Maharashtra should also allow entry only to a restricted group of workers from UP that register with the state.“...If such is the case, then any migrant entering Maharashtra too would need to take permissions from us, from the Maharashtra state, our police force. Shri Adityanath needs to take cognizance of this,” one of Thackeray’s tweets on the issue stated on Sunday.Thackeray added that such workers should also be denied voting rights in Maharashtra.“Also, the migrant workers from UP will have voting rights only in UP. As per rules laid down, a voter can only vote from one place and cannot exercise their voting rights in two places. This fact needs to be realised by CM Adityanath, by Maharashtra and other states too,” he said in another tweet.About 25 lakh migrant labourers have already returned to UP. The state government is carrying out an exercise for skill mapping of the migrant labourers. An official spokesman said, the skill mapping so far has indicated that the largest number of 1,51,492 migrant workers have come from the real estate development sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-wants-migration-commission-set-up-on-war-footing-even-as-raj-thackeray-fumes-over-his-proposal/story-raVxdRoUkd076IZPgRdw3M.html
25-05-2020||India||Shramik Special passengers stole water bottles, biscuits in UP: Railways||Migrant workers travelling from Palghat to Bihar Sharif on board a Shramik Special train are alleged to have looted mineral water bottles, cold drinks, snacks and buns from a food stall at the Prayagraj Chheoki railway station on Monday. The workers are also alleged to have damaged the food stall located in the new building of the railway station, informed railway officials.The incident occurred at around 11.40am when the 09399 Shramik Special train way from Palghat to Bihar Sharif arrived at the Prayagraj station. “Around 250 passengers of this train carrying around 1,600 migrant workers created ruckus soon after arrival of the train and looted 720 bottles of mineral water, 10 boxes of cold drinks,100 packets of biscuits and namkeen, besides 1,000 packets of ‘mathri’ (North Indian style crispy crackers) and 720 pieces of buns and other snacks from a food stall located in the new building of the railway station. They also damaged some railway property near the stall during this,” said Sunil Gupta, public relation officer (PRO), Prayagraj Division of NCR.These water bottles, cold drinks and snack packets were kept to be distributed among the passengers of the Shramik Special trains itself. “The 09399 Shramik Special train left Prayagraj Chheoki railway station at around12.25pm without any further disturbance,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shramik-special-passengers-stole-water-bottles-biscuits-in-up-railways/story-8cP4rUHOaafeUn9CyWtSXK.html
25-05-2020||India||In India’s Covid-19 testing strategy, a hard push from PM Modi and a dose of reality||As India crosses the 1 lakh tests per day milestone and begins work on the next, a senior government official on Monday underlined that India’s testing strategy had evolved to try “remain ahead of the virus” despite the healthcare infrastructure constraints and ensure that the testing facilities were not overwhelmed in any part of the country.“It has been a tough balancing act… sometimes in the face of criticism from the media,” the official said, requesting anonymity because he isn’t authorised to speak with the media.Do remember that the public health system wasn’t paralysed this time as it was in 2009 when one of the worst flu pandemics Swine flu reached India. Hundreds died in this pandemic, a government official said. But the 2009 experience led to some attention being paid to strengthen the molecular diagnostic facilities for viruses in India.That came in handy when Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the early days of the Covid-19 outbreak, told the country’s top scientists in and outside the Indian Council of Medical Research to expand testing facilities.“You have to work day and night to save people’s lives. Make every effort. You have my full support,” PM Modi told them. And then, he and his office kept following up.“For this outbreak, we are answerable to the highest level and are being watched by the highest level (officialese for Prime Minister,” Dr Nivedita Gupta, the ICMR scientist who executed the effort to set up labs across the country, told Vogue’s India website, earlier this month. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();The difficult decision of the national lockdown bought them time as it slowed down the spread of the virus and gave the government time to prepare the healthcare infrastructure to trace, track, test, quarantine and treat people.“We adopted an intelligent testing strategy to remain ahead of the virus. So in the beginning when the infection was entering the country from abroad, we centered our efforts to set up the initial burst of laboratories in cities…. This focus kept on shifting on the basis of our analysis of the likely hotspots of the infection,” a government official explained.Like before the government started allowing the migrants to go back home, testing facilities preceded them in states such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal and Odisha.That was the most difficult part since India doesn’t have a medical college at the district level, and district-level hospitals don’t have the specialised set-up.“This has been quite challenging as the labs outside the medical college systems have meager experience of handling human infectious material,” a health ministry official recalled.All underserved areas were mapped and Covid-19 molecular diagnostic capacity reached in ‘difficult to reach’ areas such as Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Sikkim, Ladakh, Goa, Andaman & Nicobar Islands.In the big picture, India moved from 13 labs in the first week of February to 123 labs on March 24, the day Prime Minister Narendra Modi ordered a nationwide lockdown. Days before the lockdown is formally lifted later this month-end, India has 609 testing labs in all states and UTs.Jugaad, or a frugal innovation, certainly helped when the imported Chinese testing kits didn’t.TrueNat — a diagnostic machine used for testing drug-resistant tuberculosis — was tested and validated by ICMR to screen people for the Sars-Cov-2 virus (which causes the coronavirus disease) to boost testing capacities.Since TrueNat platform comes with an inbuilt sample collection in viral lysis buffer, the virus is inactivated and the biosafety requirements are minimal while handling the sample.There were 367 of these machines in different states for TB diagnosis. These are being used for Covid-19 also . Besides, supplies of 608 additional TrueNAT machines - each has a capacity for 10-12 tests in a day - are also being mobilised to be ready for deployment in June.With supplies of these machines, it would be possible to have Covid-19 testing capacities in districts with no capacity for carrying out the RT-PCR tests, or reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction test that is considered the gold standard for detecting Sars-Cov-2 virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-india-s-covid-19-testing-strategy-a-hard-push-from-pm-modi-and-a-dose-of-reality/story-OdltrmDPeTD4BRPUEM0qMP.html
25-05-2020||India||Wife, son of advisor to Jammu-Kashmir L-G test positive for Covid-19||The wife and son of an advisor to the Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor GC Murmu have tested positive for the Covid-19 infection, officials said on Monday. The mother-son duo was admitted to the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana Superspecialty hospital in Kakryal area of Reasi district late Sunday.“The advisor’s wife and his son, who returned from Delhi a couple of days ago, were tested positive and late last night they were shifted to Katra’s super-specialty hospital. The advisor has gone into self-quarantine at the super-specialty hospital,” officials said on Monday.The result of their samples came on Sunday night in which they tested positive for the infection.Meanwhile, an income tax lawyer from Jammu’s Trikuta Nagar, who died on Sunday night at a private hospital, was tested positive for Covid-19 after his death. The 63-year-old man was hospitalised on May 22 for kidney-related ailments. His samples were taken the next day to test for coronavirus infection. Doctors at the hospital said he had comorbidity and died of Covid-19. “His sample was taken after his death and it was tested positive”, an official of the hospital said on Monday.This is the third death from coronavirus disease in Jammu region. A woman from Tikri village in Udhampur and a retired Special Bureau officer from Digiana in Jammu district were the two others who died due to Covid-19.Jammu-Kashmir principal secretary Rohit Kansal, meanwhile, said that relaxations in lockdown 4.0 should not be taken for granted and after people should not squander the gains made in the past two months of lockdown.“While we have increased our testing capacity to 350 percent in the last one month and as of today we are conducting 8100 tests per day, we should not squander the gains made during the lockdown since March 25,” he said.“Cumulatively, we have conducted 1.32 lakh tests so far across Jammu and Kashmir and our test rate is now 10,000 per million,” he said and added that 90,000 returnees, who returned to J&K via trains, buses and flights have also been tested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wife-son-of-advisor-to-jammu-kashmir-l-g-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-sPXivh1eafgrChJeFpCYxI.html
25-05-2020||India||Snakebite kills six-year-old girl in Uttarakhand quarantine centre||A six-year-old girl at a quarantine centre in Nainital district’s Betalghat area died after she was allegedly bitten by a snake on Monday morning, said officials.Dr Bharti Rana, chief medical officer (CMO) Nainital district said the six-year-old girl was quarantined at a government primary school in Talli Sethi village, which is located in the remote area of the district.“Around 5 am in the morning on Monday, the girl was bitten by a snake. She was brought to the community health centre in Betalghat around 1.15 pm, where doctors gave her two anti-venom injections. But she died within ten minutes,” said Dr Rana.Dr Rana said she had been quarantined with her parents at the primary school three days ago after their return from Delhi around 12 days ago.Dr Rana said she was first taken for ‘jhaad phoonk’ (excorcism) before being brought to the community health centre, which resulted in the delay. She said the girl’s body has been sent for post mortem. “After post mortem results, we will be in a better position to say what exactly happened.”Dr Satish Pant, a doctor in Betalghat who treated the girl, said the girl was brought around 1.15 pm. “Her parents said she was bitten by a snake on her ear while she was sleeping. We immediately started the treatment protocol for snake bites and administered her two anti-venom injections. But despite our best efforts, she died around 1.25 pm. They should have brought her earlier,” he said.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19In the last few days, due to the heavy influx of migrants from other states, Nainital has emerged as the district with the most positive Covid-19 cases in the state. Of Uttarakhand’s 332 positive Covid-19 cases till Monday afternoon, Nainital has the maximum 117 cases. Around 14,400 migrants from other states have returned to Nainital so far, including 7,921 in rural areas and 6,479 in urban areas of the district, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/snakebite-kills-six-year-old-girl-in-uttarakhand-quarantine-centre/story-H0NerjD2wWdfCGiDgoZcQK.html
25-05-2020||India||Explainer: What is a locust plague||India’s farms are facing a significant threat from a swarm of millions of locusts that have migrated from Africa and have now been spotted in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.A GENETIC MARVELThe desert locust is one of about a dozen species of short-horned grasshoppers. They are unique in the way that they change their behaviour – turning from solitary to “gregarious” or social insects that coalesce into a swarm and forage for food together.WHERE DID THEY ORIGINATE?This swarm originated in the Horn of Africa, where excess rains triggered a breeding boom. According to Indian experts, the swarm entering India now had another round of breeding in Baluchistan, Iran and Pakistan.WHERE ARE THEY NOW?Swarms have moved to Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and border areas of Uttar Pradesh. They migrated to Fazilka in Punjab from Pakistan before spreading to other states from there. The worst-affected districts are Barmer, Jaisalmer and Nagaur.WHAT DAMAGE CAN THEY CAUSE?The current upsurge is alarming in the Eastern Africa region. Over 25 million people will face acute food insecurity in the region in the second half of 2020. In Yemen, where locusts have been reproducing in hard-to-access inland areas, 17 million people may be impacted. A swarm of locust spread over a square kilometre can chew through food enough for 35,000 people in a day.CAN THEY HURT HUMANS?Locusts do not attack people or animals. There is no evidence that suggests that locusts carry diseases that could harm humans.CAN THEY BE CONTROLLED?They can fly as far as 150km a day, making them difficult to control. Locust swarms can cover extremely large areas, which can sometimes be extremely remote and difficult to access. FAO monitors locust swarms on a 24-hour basis and provides forecasts and early warning alerts on the timing, scale and location of movement. Traditional chemicals are used to control their numbers. Now nature-based biopesticides are also available as a less harmful alternative for controlling outbreaks.WHAT HAPPENS NOW?If we are not able to control them, the sub adults will come back to their summer breeding area in the Thar desert bordering Pakistan. If there are good rains, they will lay eggs and lead to a new generation of desert locusts migrating to India again in a few months.MEASURES IN INDIAThe Locust Warning Organisation under the ministry of agriculture has a ground team of 50 people mainly to monitor and track the swarms; drones are used for aerial spraying of Malathion 96, an organophosphate insecticide and a potentially toxic chemical for non-cropped areas. For areas with agriculture, chlorpyrifos is sprayed by drones, fire brigades and tractor-mounted sprays.STRENGTH IN NUMBERS*40-80 million locusts are estimated in a swarm that spreads over 1 square kilometre*These many locusts can ravage crops equivalent to the feeding need of 35,000 people in a day*Their life span is between 3-5 months. They become hoppers after a month and can start laying eggs when they 60-70 days oldSource: Locust Warning Organisation, FAO, National Geographic||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explainer-india-staring-at-a-desert-locust-plague/story-EEDjCjHYannJ0c7u9ObaDK.html
25-05-2020||India||Senior Kashmir doctor alleges police harassment, cop says he was pushed first||A senior cardiologist of Shri Maharaja Hari Singh Hospital in Srinagar has lodged a police complaint and alleged that he was beaten and harassed by the policeman deployed on the road while he was on his way to work recently.In his complaint, Dr Syed Maqbool alleged that on May 23 morning when he was crossing the Hawal Chowk on his way to the hospital he was stopped by a policeman and asked to turn back and use another route. The doctor reportedly displayed his identity card and even showed the cop his duty roster. But the policeman allegedly did not listen.“On that day, I was the cardiologist on call for SMHS Hospital and all other associated hospitals. I requested the policeman to allow me to pass as I was already getting late due to a traffic jam. Instead the cop started abusing me. I got down from my vehicle and asked him if he wanted to talk to his office, which enraged him and he started hitting me with his baton. In the meantime, the Station House Officer came running and dragged me into the police station,” Dr Maqbool said.The police have, however, on receipt of the complaint said the matter will be probed and also blamed the doctor for allegedly trying to manhandle the policeman on duty on that road.According to the doctor, inside the police station, the officer snatched his phone and his identity card. “Despite my repeated requests to call my HOD and the Principal of the Medical College as I was on call to deal with emergencies, the officer harassed me and termed doctors as thieves who indulge only in selling duplicate medicines and taking commission.” “Noticing his arrogant behavior and knowing that patients would suffer and could die, I apologized to the officer and after that he allowed me to make a call to my colleagues for arranging someone to take care of the patients. It was only after my brother came and submitted a bond that I was released from police custody. My vehicle is still with the police,” the doctor said.Dr Maqbool further added that the SHO threatened him that he should not tell anybody how he landed in police custody. “The officer was so rude that he threatened to strip me naked. For me, it was pure torture which I received that too while performing Covid19 duties.”’After his release instead of going home, Dr Maqbool walked on foot six kilometers to the hospital and performed two angioplasties in the morning. “I am a senior interventional cardiologist who has represented the state and country at multiple and national and international forums with multiple awards to my credit and if this is the behaviour I get what will our juniors face at a time when the whole world is dealing with a deadly disease killing thousands daily,” he questioned.Dr Maqbool also denied that he had tried to manhandle the policeman on duty. “The policemen are lying. There are CCTV cameras at the Hawal Chowk and the footage will reveal everything. If I am found guilty, I am ready to face harsh punishment. But I want action against the arrogant officer.”Principal, Medical College Srinagar, Dr Samia Rashid said that she had taken up this issue with all the top officials of the administration who had promised action. “The doctor was on call and still he was stopped and jailed. This issue has demoralized our doctors, especially the doctors who are our frontline workers and they were ready to go on general strike against this rude behaviour by the local police,” she said.SSP Srinagar, Haseeb Mughal said that doctor had reportedly tried to manhandle the policeman. “We have already filed a complaint against the doctor since he reportedly manhandled a policeman when he was coming from the wrong side. When the policeman stopped the doctor he pushed him saying that he was in a hurry. Now, he has sent me a complaint so I have also assigned the SP Hazratbal to enquire into the issue. We have already taken legal cognizance of his misconduct,” the’ SSP Srinagar said adding that the matter would be probed.“If our policemen are at fault, disciplinary action will be taken but at the same time we will not allow anybody to manhandle and misbehave with police personnel who are on the job 24/7,” he said.The issue has created quite an uproar on social media in Srinagar and many doctors have been pointing out that this is how frontline workers in Kashmir are being treated by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-kashmir-doctor-alleges-police-harassment-cop-says-he-was-pushed-first/story-DiZoztc4ieMUaUG26y5bkJ.html
25-05-2020||India||‘Sleeping’ officer during Covid-19 training programme turns out dead||A 47-year-old government officer heading a Covid-19 city response team (CRT) in Uttarakhand’s Udham Singh Nagar district died during a training programme on Sunday while his colleagues thought he was sleeping, said officials.Jaswant Singh, an assistant engineer in the Public Works Department in Rudarpur, had been appointed in-charge of the Covid-19 CRT in Kichha municipality.He was in Kichha to impart training related to documenting migrants coming from other states. During the training, Singh was seen with eyes closed by many colleagues who assumed he was sleeping. But when they shook him at the end of the programme, he just fell down following which he was rushed to a hospital where doctors declared him dead on arrival. “He had come to impart training but said at the beginning of the programme that he was unwell and feeling sleepy because of late-night duty at a quarantine centre in Rudrapur. He asked other senior officials to continue the training. All of us thought that he slept during the entire programme,” said Praveen Singh, data operator in Kichha municipality.Praveen added, “When the programme got over and he didn’t move, we tried to wake him up. Seeing him unconscious, some of us sprinkled water on his face to bring him back but that didn’t work. He was then rushed to the government hospital but doctors declared him brought dead.”His family, as well as higher authorities, were informed about the incident.“His post-mortem has been conducted but we are yet to receive his report. After receiving the post-mortem report ,the cause of death can be ascertained,” said Umesh Malik, in-charge, police station, Kichha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-officer-dies-during-covid-19-training-colleagues-thought-he-was-sleeping/story-EtA4eV7KlENkIRsLpJJjrK.html
25-05-2020||India||Chandrababu Naidu in Amaravati after 60 days, to host mega TDP meet via Zoom||After over 60 days in Hyderabad due to lockdown and then a cancelled flight, Chandrababu Naidu, along with his son Nara Lokesh, drove down to Amaravati on Monday afternoon. TDP Andhra unit president Kala Venkat Rao said Naidu would focus on the party activities again. “He would address the two-day biennial party conclave Maha Nadu to be held on May 27 and 28 through Zoom application. In all, 14,000 party delegates would attend Maha Nadu through Zoom,” he said.As Naidu, Telugu Desam Party president and former Andhra Pradesh chief minister, had obtained special permission from the police departments in both the states, his convoy had a smooth passage at the inter-state check post at Garikapadu on the National Highway No. 65. The Andhra police, however, checked the vehicles of other TDP leaders who accompanied his convoy.Entering the home state after a gap of more than two months, Naidu was given a rousing reception at the check-post and at different locations all along the highway. He straightaway drove to his residence at Vundavalli on the banks of Krishna river.On Sunday evening, Andhra Pradesh DGP Gautam Sawang wrote to Naidu giving him permission to fly to Visakhapatam to call on the families of those who lost members in the poisonous gas leak on May 7. Later, he had planned to return to Amaravati by road.The DGP issued an electronic pass to Naidu to travel to Visakhapatnam, saying that the visit of the opposition leader was being treated as a special case.However, as Naidu was preparing to fly to Visakhapatnam, the Centre announced late on Sunday night that all flights to Andhra Pradesh had been cancelled on technical grounds on the request of the state government and that the flights would begin only on Tuesday.It forced the TDP chief to cancel his Vizag visit and he decided to travel to Amaravati by road.TDP lawmaker and former minister K K Atchannaidu alleged that the YSR Congress government had deliberately deferred resumption of flight services only to prevent the former chief minister from visiting Vizag.“It is only after Chandrababu Naidu’s schedule was announced that the state government deferred the resumption of services, that too only by a day. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri’s tweets indicate the same,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chandrababu-naidu-in-amaravati-after-60-days-to-host-mega-tdp-meet-via-zoom/story-m9vfMEGk7yoI62GDMxNAFI.html
25-05-2020||India||ICMR antibody survey begins, results likely in three weeks||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has collected around 24,000 blood samples from 60 districts across 21 states over the past two weeks for a serosurvey to check for exposure to SARS-CoV-2, which causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19), among the country’s adult population.The cross-sectional survey of adults, aged 18 years or more, will detect infection in the community by testing for the presence of antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 that are found in the blood of people who have recovered from it. Four representative samples were collected from 60 districts on the basis of reported Covid-19 cases per million population -- zero, low (0.1-4.7), medium (4.8-10), and high (>10). Around 400 samples from 15 districts from each category were selected randomly, according to ICMR.The first batch of about 70% of samples was dispatched to a central laboratory in Chennai for analysis on Sunday, and the results are expected in about three weeks. “The ICMR-National Institute for Research in Tuberculosis in Chennai will do the analysis,” said an ICMR official, requesting anonymity.This community-based survey will hold the key for getting several vital clues on the viral disease such as its trend, testing pattern, etc, according to experts. “If more people have antibodies and were never detected that means the infection is widely present. It’s a good thing that only a few are suffering from complications leading to deaths. This is also an indirect methodology to ascertain whether enough tests are being conducted across the country,” said Dr. Girdhar R Babu, head, Lifecourse Epidemiology. The blood samples will be tested for detecting IgG antibodies using ELISA method (IgG is an antibody that develops later as compared to the other antibodies, hence, determine a past infection. Elisa method is an enzyme-based laboratory test that detects and quantifies antibodies in the blood) that will determine a past infection due to the virus. Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, West Bengal, and Jammu & Kashmir are the 21 states from where samples have been collected.Besides, about 5,000 samples have been collected from 10 hot spot cities that have reported the maximum caseload such as Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Thane, Pune, Indore, Kolkata, Hyderabad, and Aurangabad.“Conducting population-based serosurveillance for SARS-CoV-2 will estimate and monitor the trend of infection in the adult general population, determine the socio-demographic risk factors and delineate the geographical spread of the infection,” said a recently-published ICMR document on serosurveillance. “Such serosurveys repeated at regular intervals can also guide containment measures in respective areas. State-specific context of disease burden, priorities and resources should guide the use of multifarious surveillance options for the current Covid-19 epidemic,” the paper said. “We’re likely to repeat the survey later depending on the results,” said the ICMR official.Apart from the serosurvey, the Union Ministry of Health & Family Welfare (MoH&FW) has a hospital-based active surveillance plan using real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) among healthcare workers, outpatient department patients, and pregnant women in all the districts in the country. At least 10 hospitals -- six public and four private hospitals -- will be selected from each district for the sampling, with an overall target of collecting 800 samples a month. These two surveys are in addition to conducting a random test of about 250 severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and influenza-like illness (ILI) cases that the Centre has advised all the states to carry out in each district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-antibody-survey-begins-results-likely-in-three-weeks/story-8a2SgTaTkICbH9QoWPGBlK.html
25-05-2020||India||Two migrant workers die in Chhattisgarh’s Mahsamund while heading home||Two migrant workers on their way to their home states amid lockdown, which has been imposed to contain the coronavirus pandemic, died in Mahasamund district in Chhattisgarh on Sunday.“In the first incident, a 38-year-old man heading to West Bengal in a bus from Maharashtra complained of breathing problems. He started vomiting and died after being rushed to a community health centre in Pithora town, said Pithora Block Medical Officer Dr Tara Agrawal.In the second case, a 45-year-old migrant got off at Mahasamund railway station from an Odisha-bound train after his health deteriorated and died in a nearby hospital, said Dr RK Pardal, the facility’s superintendent.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The samples of the two deceased as well as two more people who were with them have been sent for coronavirus testing, officials added.There have been several incidents of migrant workers dying while returning home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-migrant-workers-die-in-chhattisgarh-s-mahsamund-while-heading-home/story-9DfMyukd9Xby1K8uXl8MqI.html
25-05-2020||India||Caught between Covid-19 and Amphan, Bengal’s environment refugees face an uncertain future||Caught between the Covid-19 pandemic, the lockdown and the devastation left behind by cyclone Amphan, the environmental refugees from Bengal’s ‘vanishing’ island of Ghoramara now face an uncertain future.While 50-year-old Sheikh Abdul Rauf returned home in Ghoramara a day after the Janata Curfew in March, his four sons – in their late 20’s and early 30s - managed to return from Kerala a day later on March 24. All of them had left the island at some point of time in search of a livelihood. But now they have all come back because of the fear of the pandemic and the lockdown.“But see our fate. We were forced to leave the island in search of work after losing all our farmlands due to the erosion caused by rivers. Then the virus forced us to come back. Now the cyclone has again evicted us. Where are we supposed to go now?” said Rauf, while standing outside his hut badly damaged by the cyclone.Also read: Cyclone Amphan wreaks havoc on IIM Calcutta campusLocated at the southern tip of Bengal, at the mouth of the sea, the island has been reduced to 4.8 square kilometre (sq km) as compared to more than 9 sq km in the 1970s due to severe erosion by three rivers. Hundreds of people like Rauf have left the island for other states in search of job. Rauf works as a tailor in Kolkata’s Kidderpore area.  “From a total of around 7,000 people around a decade ago, the population has been reduced to 5,000. While many have gone to other states in search of work, around 1,200 have left the island permanently and have settled elsewhere like Sagar Island, which is much bigger. But because of the fear of the pandemic and the lockdown, at least 200 – 250 people, of the 500-odd people who had gone to other states for work, have come back,” said Sanjib Sagar, panchayat pradhan of Ghoramara. The panchayat has only five members and is the smallest in West Bengal.Every time the rivers erode a portion of the island, some villager loses his house and is pushed further inland to rebuild his house. Some have been forced to rebuild their houses six times and have no farmland left, last time they had to purchase land from other villagers.“I returned home after a woman in the locality where I used to stay in Kerala tested positive for Covid-19. There were 20 of us from various villages on the Ghoramara island. We all returned together just before the lockdown. But now we have been evicted again. We can’t even go back to Kerala as the disease is spreading. Back home we have lost everything because of the cyclone,” said Chandan Chowdhury whose family had to rebuild the house at least five times.Chowdhury and his family, along with a few hundred other villagers, had to be evacuated just before the storm. Some returned to the island on Sunday to restart life.Ghoramara, once comprised three Mouzas (a type of administrative district) of which two, including Lohachura, have eroded completely. It once boasted of a three-storey post office, one of the largest post offices in the state. But even that has been washed away by the erosion.“The island is vanishing primarily because of river erosion. Many argue that it is the rising sea level. Had it been for the rising sea, many other islands in the area, like Nayachar, would have vanished. But whatever reason it may be, these environment refugees now face an uncertain future,” said Tuhin Ghosh, director of School of Oceanographic Studies at Jadavpur University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/caught-between-covid-19-and-amphan-bengal-s-environment-refugees-face-an-uncertain-future/story-StYh8JcTgbwmdkhjeMJrTK.html
25-05-2020||India||Rail Bhawan staff tests Covid-19 positive, fifth case in less than 2 weeks||A staff member posted at the Rail Bhawan in Central Delhi tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, making this the fifth case in less than two weeks to be detected in the same building.A day earlier, on Sunday, a senior officer posted in the same building was detected coronavirus positive. The officer had last attended work on May 20. At least, 14 other officials who worked closely with her have been sent on home quarantine.The senior officer testing positive was the fourth case in less than a week at the railway headquarters.ALSO READ | Delhi reports sharp single-day rise of 635 Covid-19 cases, tally crosses 14,000 The third coronavirus positive case at Rail Bhawan had been found just days before the fourth staff member tested Covid-19 positive. The third patient was another senior officer working in the same building. She was working on cadre restructuring of the Railway Protection Force Service. She had last come to work on May 13. After May 13, the Rail Bhawan was shut for sanitisation for two days as an RPF staffer too had tested positive for the disease.Some junior employees also have been asked to isolate themselves and rejoin office next month on June 4.A junior staff member at the RPF office on the fourth floor of Rail Bhawan was the first employee to be infected with coronavirus in the building. This was followed by another case where a langur handler hired to chase monkeys around the Rail Bhawan had tested positive for the infection.Following the detection of three Covid-19 positive cases on the premises, the Railways had shut down the building for sanitisation on May 14 and 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rail-bhawan-staff-tests-covid-19-positive-fifth-case-in-less-than-2-weeks/story-V907EhYU6cA7ET76bCIaGJ.html
25-05-2020||India||Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari cites MHA order, defends playing cricket during lockdown||BJP MP and Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari rejected the allegations that he broke the law and social distancing norms by indulging in prohibited activities by playing a game of cricket in Sonipat, Haryana and said that the game was played following a Central government order allowing reopening of stadiums without spectators. He claimed that all social distancing norms were followed during the game. “I have always followed social distancing, lockdown norms. MHA permitted opening of stadiums without spectators. Based on that, I went there and played. All norms were followed,” Manoj Tiwari was quoted as saying by new agency ANI.The agency reported that Tiwari played a game of cricket at an academy in Sheikhpura of Sonipat district in violation of social distancing and government guidelines for the fourth phase of national lockdown.Tiwari, as cited above, is relying on a government notification issued on May 17 which said sports complexes and stadia could reopen but spectators were not allowed.“Sports complexes and stadia will be permitted to open; however, spectators will not be allowed,” said the MHA notification. It was widely interpreted as permission for athletes in Olympic sports to resume training without spectators. However, it was not said explicitly if any sporting activity could resume in these facilities without spectators.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The same notification also listed sports activities among mass activities that were not allowed to resume yet.After the notification, it was reported that BCCI could consider allowing players to resume training. India cricketer Shardul Thakur became the first to resume training on Saturday, however, it is said to have miffed the cricket board since Thakur had allegedly not taken its permission.Also Read: BCCI miffed with Shardul Thakur for training outdoors: reportSeveral reports said Tiwari did not wear a mask while playing and was also seen taking selfies with other people present at the ground.Tiwari’s move has also come under the scanner since Delhi’s borders with Haryana are not open due to fears that the rising number of coronavirus cases in Delhi could lead to a spike in Haryana as well. A video posted on Tiwari’s twitter account shows him playing cricket at a facility with spectators watching. However, it is not clear if the video was shot at the Sonipat game which is under question.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-bjp-chief-manoj-tiwari-cites-mha-order-defends-playing-cricket-during-lockdown/story-ZTGJLA3QjFMypBrwlVtXfJ.html
25-05-2020||India||Worst locust attack in 26 years: All about the latest threat amid Covid-19 outbreak||Standing crops and vegetables in at least five states in the country face a major threat as swarms of locust have been reported a month in advance.The Union environment ministry warned in a statement last week that locust swarms have entered Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh. It said Rajasthan is the most affected state and added the swarm has entered the country earlier than expected.Uttar Pradesh has also reported the attacks and there is an alert for Maharashtra as well as Delhi.The United Nations (UN) has warned that armies of locusts swarming across continents pose a “severe risk” to India’s agriculture this year.What are locusts?Locusts are the oldest migratory pests in the world, according to the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO).These insects differ from ordinary grasshoppers in their ability to change behaviour and form swarms that can migrate over large distances. The most devastating of all locust species is the Desert Locust (schistocerca gregaria), according to the FAO.The locusts, which are considered to be among the most dangerous pests known to humanity, reproduce fast — 20-fold within three months — the FAO experts noted.An adult locust can eat quantity equal to its weight daily, and just a single square kilometre of the swarm can contain up to 80 million adults, they said.Locusts can fly up to 150km daily and a one square km swarm can eat as much food as 35,000 people in terms of weight in a single day.What has pushed the outbreak?The recent locust outbreak along the India-Pakistan border may have been driven by the longer-than-usual monsoon across the region, and frequent cyclones in the Indian Ocean, scientists say.“The current locust outbreak is the biggest in 25 years in Ethiopia and Somalia, 26 years in India, 70 years in Kenya,” Keith Cressman, locust forecasting officer at FAO told PTI.“The outbreak started after heavy amounts of rains over east Africa and the Arabian Peninsula,” Roxy Mathew Koll, a climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) in Pune added.Koll noted heavy rains, which drove the locust outbreak, occurred due to intense storm activity sourced from the Arabian Sea during the last two seasons. “Heavy rain triggers the growth of vegetation in arid areas where desert locusts can then grow and breed,” he said.Koll explained that recently climate change accentuated the phenomenon called the “Indian Ocean Dipole”, with warmer than usual waters to its west, and cooler waters to its east.“On top of that, the rising temperatures due to global warming made the Western Indian Ocean particularly warm,” he said.Cressman said the current locust invasion in India by an unprecedented number of swarms originated in southern Iran from their breeding in spring last year.“Summer breeding along both sides of the Indo-Pakistan border was much higher than normal due to the swarm invasion and the monsoon rains lasting one month longer than normal, allowing up to three generations of breeding,” Cressman said.What is the government doing?Authorities across the country have said they have stepped up vigil, deployed drones to detect their movement and held talks with Pakistan, the most likely gateway for an invasion by the insects, on ways to minimise the damage.The government is also considering importing equipment from the UK, apart from deploying drones, satellite-derived tools, special fire-tenders and sprayers at pre-identified border locations.What’s the latest status?On Monday, locusts were seen flying over Jaipur even as officials of the agriculture department said the swarm over the city was on its way to Dausa. Officials said the swarm that flew over Jaipur city came from Nagaur.More than half of Rajasthan’s 33 districts are affected by invasion by these insects, which are traditionally known to be attacking western Rajasthan districts bordering Pakistan.Swarms of locusts arrived in Malhargarh area of Madhya Pradesh’s Mandsaur district on Sunday.“Scientists from central locust team and agricultural science department conducted an exercise and removed around 60% of them by spraying,” said Manoj Pushp, Mandsaur District Magistrate.The Jhansi district administration in Uttar Pradesh has directed fire brigade to keep its vehicle ready with chemicals following a sudden movement of a swarm of locusts.“The villagers along with the common public has been told to inform the control room about the movement. The locusts will go places where there is green grass or greenery. Hence, details about the movement at such places must be shared,” Andra Vamsi, Jhansi’s district magistrate, said. Kamal Katiyar, the deputy director of the agriculture department, said the swarm of locusts, which is moving, is small in size.“We have got the news that nearly 2.5 to a 3-kilometre long swarm of locusts has entered the country. A team has come from Kota (Rajasthan) to tackle the locusts,” Katiyar said.At present, the locust swarm is at Bangra Magarpur in Jhansi. “Spraying of insecticides will be done in the night,” Katiyar said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/worst-locust-attack-in-26-years-all-about-the-latest-threat-amid-covid-19-outbreak/story-HCSl5S2bvqQT3mIeWijOsL.html
25-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: War of words between Piyush Goyal and Sanjay Raut over Shramik trains from Maharashtra and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.War of words between Piyush Goyal and Sanjay Raut over Shramik trains from MaharashtraA war of words has broken out between Union Minister for Railways and Commerce & Industry Piyush Goyal and Shiv Sena member of Rajya Sabha Sanjay Raut over an alleged 50% less number of Shramik Special trains being provided daily to ferry stranded migrant workers out of Maharashtra. Read more. Army Chief Naravane’s 2012 prophecy on Chinese strategy rings true in Ladakh sectorBack in the autumn of 2012, a senior faculty member at the Mhow-based Army War College published a paper on the China’s war zone campaign (WZC). Beijing would, the army officer argued, seek to coerce smaller adversaries into acceding to China’s demand through graded threat of force or actual use of force till its ends are met. Read more. China to evacuate citizens from India amid pandemic, rising border tensionChina is planning to evacuate its citizens from India amid the spreading Covid-19 pandemic in the country, a notice issued by the Chinese embassy in New Delhi said on Monday. Read more. Babar Azam almost in Virat Kohli, Steve Smith’s league: Misbah-ul-HaqThere has been no cricketing action in the last two months due to the Covid-19 pandemic but that hasn’t been able to keep the likes of India captain Virat Kohli, Australia’s Steve Smith and Pakistan limited-overs skipper Babar Azam away from news. Read more. When Daniel Radcliffe said Harry Potter turned him into an alcoholic, revealed details about sex lifeActor Daniel Radcliffe struggled with alcohol while filming the Harry Potter movies. Radcliffe spoke candidly about his alcoholism years after appearing in his final Harry Potter film. Read more. Govt selects 10 Indian startups to develop Zoom rivalThe Indian government, last month, had launched a challenge inviting Indian companies to build a secure alternative to the video conferencing app Zoom. Read more. Yoga for holistic health: Tackle obesity, depression and other mental health issues with yoga and meditationYoga can play an important role in restoring health in a holistic manner and promoting better physical, mental, emotional and spiritual health. Read more. Bihar Board 10th Result 2020: BSEB matric result to be declared tomorrow at 12.30pmBihar School Examination Board (BSEB) will declare the BSEB matric result 2020 on Tuesday at 12:30 pm. BSEB chairman Anand Kishor announced that the Bihar Board class 10th result 2020 will be declared tomorrow at onlinebseb.in. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-war-of-words-between-piyush-goyal-and-sanjay-raut-over-shramik-trains-from-maharashtra-and-all-the-latest-news/story-EvTnvqM8MeIMtkv9yX8oON.html
25-05-2020||India||MP farmer ostracised for failing to perform rites after son’s death during lockdown||A farmer in Bundelkhand region has filed a complaint with police accusing members of his community of ostracising him for failing to perform religious rites following the death of his son. The complainant said he couldn’t perform the 13th day religious ritual first due to the Janata Curfew and later due to lockdown restrictions to curb the spread of Covid-19.Brijgopal Patel, a resident of Khajwa village in Madhya Pradesh’s Chhatarpur district, said in his complaint filed at sub-divisional officer of police (SDOP) of Rajnagar town on Saturday,that his 15-year-old son died after drowning in an under-construction well in his agriculture field on March 9.“I couldn’t organise the terhavi (The 13th day ritual after death) due to Janta curfew and later lockdown and curfew restrictions as I feared that it would mean a large gathering of invitees and everyone including my family and I would be exposed to the threat of being infected with coronavirus. However, a panchayat was convened by other community members at the village at the end of March and a diktat was announced that my family would remain boycotted till I organise the ritual”, Patel said in his complaint.The farmer alleged that as per the diktat, he and his family can’t fetch water from the village well and they can’t take part in any auspicious programme in any other community member’s family.Sub-divisional officer of police (SDOP), Rajnagar town, Manmohan Baghel said, “I have instructed Rajnagar police station to investigate the charges. Statements of the complainant and other villagers have been recorded. Action will be taken based on the findings of the investigation.”Rajnagar janpad panchayat chief executive officer (CEO) Pratipal Singh Bagri said, “Ostracising anyone is a wrong practice. I constituted a team of janpad panchayat personnel after coming to know about the matter to help the farmer and take action against the guilty persons.”There has been a lockdown since March 24 across the country to curb the spread of coronavirus pandemic. It has been extended thrice during the past two months and is now slated to end on May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-farmer-ostracised-for-failing-to-perform-rites-for-dead-son-during-lockdown/story-QbE2xzQDHHMISbsfEAPVGP.html
25-05-2020||India||Uttarakhand youth are saying thank you to Covid warriors at hospitals, police posts with music||Expressing gratitude towards front line health, sanitation and security personnel, two members of a Delhi-based rock band ‘Nazm’ are giving live musical performances before Covid warriors in Uttarakhand, appreciating their contribution to saving lives while risking their own in these testing times.From hospitals, medical centres to police stations, the rock band members, Raghav Raja, vocalist and Rohit Joshi, guitarist--who hail from Haridwar-- are letting the Covid warriors know with their music that the country is in their debt.Stuck at their homes since March-end when the lockdown began, Raghav Raja and Rohit Joshi decided to motivate and provide some musical solace to the frontline workers by penning patriotic and motivational songs. Their Rock band ‘Nazm’ specializes in Sufi, Bollywood, folk and alternative rock music“We have performed in various Indian cities as well as in foreign countries like Dubai but it’s a unique feeling performing for health, sanitation and police workers who are actually a solid wall between us and coronavirus. Smile and appreciation we receive from these personnel is the best reward for us. We know they rarely get time out for any recreational activity as Covid-19 has severely affected the whole of humanity for the past three months,” said Raghav and Rohit.Appreciating their initiative, Haridwar’s chief medical officer Dr Saroj Naithani said, “We allowed them to perform as their intention is noble and we are getting good response from the health personnel.”“From showering of petals, garlanding, clapping to being praised through musical performances by these youths, we all feel motivated and get the inner strength to carry on our war against the coronavirus pandemic,” said Dr Saroj Naithani.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Raghav and Rohit’s initiative is also getting appreciation and backing from their families and neighbours in Haridwar’s Vivek Vihar Colony, where they live.“From local devotional song evenings, enactment of Ramleela, performances in marriages to social and cultural events, both Raghav and Rohit, over the years have become known faces in our city. They are affectionately called ‘2-R’. We feel proud when officials and health personnel applaud their musical performances,” said Anusha, Raghav’s sister, who herself plays tabla and harmonium.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Senthyl Aboodai Krishan, who gave permission to the duo to perform at police stations, said such sentiments for the people fighting the epidemic is a good sign for the society and it motivates and encourages the professionals at the front line to even risk their lives in the line of duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-youth-are-saying-thank-you-to-covid-warriors-at-hospitals-police-posts-with-music/story-99oCU5fT9Z193WzXcxGFUK.html
25-05-2020||India||Avoid cooking during peak hours, slow down on caffeinated drinks: Dos and don’ts to battle heatwave||As parts of North India sizzle under heatwave conditions, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that no respite is likely in the coming days. The Met department has issued a “red” warning for Delhi, Haryana, Punjab, west and east Rajasthan on May 25 and 26 for heatwave or severe heatwave conditions.The weather department has said that a drop in temperature is not likely for the coming 4-5 days. The national capital on Sunday witnessed sweltering heat with the mercury rising as high as 44.4 degrees Celsius in the Safdarjung area. A dip in temperature is predicted over the weekend when rain is likely to occur in Delhi around May 28. Vidarbha region and parts of Rajasthan witnessed the temperature cross 46 degrees Celsius on Sunday. Nagpur Sonegaon in Maharashtra recorded 46.2 degrees Celsius; Churu in Rajasthan 46.6 degrees Celsius, Akola in Maharashtra 46 degrees Celsius, according to the IMD.Amid heatwave conditions and spell of dry weather prevailing across parts of the country, here’s what precautions one must take to stay protected and what must be avoided as stated by the IMD. Also read: Red alert issued as heatwave intensifies in north India, likely to persist for 4-5 daysHow to minimize the impact of heatwave• Drink sufficient water and as often as possible.• Wear lightweight, light-coloured, loose cotton clothes.• Use protective gear like goggles, umbrella/hat, shoes or sandals while stepping out during the day. • Always carry water while travelling, carry water with you. • Load up on electrolytes, homemade drinks like lassi, lemon water, buttermilk and keep hydrated.• Recognize the signs of heat stroke, heat rash or heat cramps such as weakness, dizziness, headache, nausea, sweating and seizures. Visit a doctor immediately on feeling faintish or dizzy.• Keep your home cool; use curtains, shutters or sunshade and open windows at night.Also read: Mercury inches towards 42°C amid heatwave alert in ChandigarhWhat must be avoided• Do not leave children or pets in parked vehicles. • Avoid going out in the sun, especially between 12.00 noon and 3.00 pm • Avoid wearing dark, heavy or tight clothing. • Avoid strenuous activities when the temperature is high. • Avoid working outside between 12 noon and 3 pm• Avoid cooking during peak heat hours. • Open doors and windows to ventilate cooking area adequately. • Avoid alcohol, tea, coffee and carbonated soft drinks which dehydrate the body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/avoid-cooking-during-peak-heat-hours-slow-down-on-caffeinated-drinks-dos-and-don-ts-to-battle-heatwave/story-SHZJ9YRzk4g1aUFi4h1v6O.html
25-05-2020||India||Film set vandalised by right-wing group, Kerala CM promises strong action||Kerala government on Monday constituted a special investigation team (SIT), headed by Ernakulam rural superintendent of police (SP) K Karthick, to probe the attack on a film set by a little known right-wing group, Antharashtra Hindu Parishad (AHA), a day before. The film set, a replica of a church, erected near a temple at Aluva in Kerala’s central Ernakulam district, was demolished on Sunday night by a group of people owing allegiance to AHA and later they posted a video of the attack on social media.The under-production Malayalam film, Minnal Murali, was set to be released in August, but will be delayed because of the lockdown restrictions, which were imposed in end-March to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, and also because of Sunday’s attack.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) have condemned the attack and sought strict action against the perpetrators.Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said action would be taken against those responsible for the “despicable act”. Many bodies related to the film industry also condemned the attack.The film’s director, Basil Joseph, said they had obtained the permission from the panchayat, the temple body, and the irrigation department before erecting the set to shoot the concluding scenes of the movie, starring actor Tovino Thomas in the lead role.“We have heard of movie sets being vandalised by religious fanatics in some parts of north India. Sad, now it is happening here in Kerala,” Tovino wrote in a social media post.Locals said some fringe outfits had expressed reservation over setting up the set, that too a replica of the church, near a temple. Police said assailants have been identified and they would be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/film-set-vandalised-by-right-wing-group-kerala-cm-promises-strong-action/story-sUdVmktLtSgQ0usTMNEmvO.html
25-05-2020||India||Army Chief Naravane’s 2012 prophecy on Chinese strategy rings true in Ladakh sector||Back in the autumn of 2012, a senior faculty member at the Mhow-based Army War College published a paper on the China’s war zone campaign (WZC). Beijing would, the army officer argued, seek to coerce smaller adversaries into acceding to China’s demand through graded threat of force or actual use of force till its ends are met.The officer, then Brigadier Manoj Mukund Naravane, wrote that the political objective of this Chinese concept is unveiled by “occupation of certain un-held tract of land or high value targets’. This would be done through elite forces.The first would be the domination-cum-deterrence (DCD) phase where the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) would focus on building up its presence in the territory in question to deter the enemy. In the second phase, Gaining Initiative by Striking First (GISF), it would deploy rapid reaction units to strike first to wrest the initiative from the enemy. The last stage is the Quick Battle Quick Resolution where the PLA would use a dedicated division level force. But the PLA, the senior army officer said in his seminal paper published in Scholar Warrior, a journal published by the Delhi-based think tank Center For Land Warfare Studies, expects to achieve its objective in the first two phases.As the Indian Army Chief now, General Manoj Mukund Naravane is faced with a WZC situation along the 3,488 kilometre long Line of Actual Control (LAC) with PLA opening multiple fronts in western and eastern sectors while the world including India battles the Covid-19 pandemic that has its origins in central China’s Wuhan city. The Chinese aggressive manoeuvres also entail the PLA moving support elements in depth areas of eastern Ladakh.Also read | China’s tactical play in Ladakh isn’t just about the boundaryAlthough Gen Naravane didn’t refer to it in his 2012 paper, national security planners say the key to the Chinese WZC concept is deception coupled with state of the art intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) capabilities.The top army officer was clear that the only way to counter the WZC strategy is to thwart Chinese designs in the initial two, DCD and GISF, stages.Beijing did have the initial advantage when it moved soldiers to Galwan Valley and Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh. The Chinese army had built roads right up to their claim line and could move in troops quickly, once it decided to activate them.This advantage now stands neutralised with Indian force levels building up over the past weeks. The Indian Army is also staring at the aggressor with troops holding their positions and not allowing the Red Army to brow beat them at Galwan Valley and Pangong Tso.Top government officials told Hindustan Times that the security establishment did realise that India’s northern borders would remain turbulent for some time to come after New Delhi decided to upgrade its border infrastructure in 2014.For decades, India had been debating the extent and pace of creating border infrastructure along the Line of Actual Control with China. Beijing, meanwhile, kept building railway tracks and roads.Also read | Experts raise concern over Ladakh face-offThis meant that the Chinese PLA patrols along the border often went uncontested.This started to change after India matching up the build up to a degree and earmarking its claim line through regular patrols. And this friction is expected to continue unless both sides exchange maps of their respective positions in both the eastern and the western sector.The situation in the middle sector is far better after both sides exchanged maps in 2002. So both sides now know the exact disputed territory. The western sector maps were shared but never exchanged at the behest of Chinese; the eastern sector maps were not even shared.While China openly covets Arunachal Pradesh as its territory, its long term game in eastern Ladakh could be to cut through Galwan-Murgo axis to provide an all weather alternative to the Karakoram highway, which enters Pakistan through Khunjerab Pass and not Karakoram pass north of Indian positions of Daulet Beg Oldi.However, with the Indian Army digging into its positions to face the aggressor, the long drawn out mobilization may not work for the PLA as the law of diminishing returns comes into play like in the protracted 1979 Sino-Vietnam war. Status quo ante is the only viable option as it leaves both sides with a win-win situation.Also read | China to evacuate citizens from India amid pandemic, rising border tension||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-naravane-s-2012-prophecy-on-chinese-strategy-rings-true-in-ladakh-sector/story-OsfNk1vmIWOQHHNGHGzHcI.html
25-05-2020||India||Rajasthan registers 145 new Covid-19 cases, state count climbs to 7,173||Rajasthan on Monday reported 145 new Covid-19 positive cases taking the state’s coronavirus tally to 7,173, the Rajasthan Health Department said.At least 163 patients have succumbed to the deadly coronavirus infection so far. No deaths were reported in the state in the last 24 hours.Currently, there are 3,150 active cases in the state, according to health department data.Among the new cases, the highest number of coronavirus positive patients are from Pali (25), followed by Sikar (22), Jaipur (11), Kota (7) and Dholpur (1). Till date 3,856 coronavirus patients have recovered from the disease and 3,420 have been discharged from hospitals after being cured. With around 7,000 new cases in a day, India’s tally of coronavirus cases surpassed that of Iran’s as it recorded 1,38,845 till Monday. With this count, India has entered the Top 10 worst-hit countries by the coronavirus pandemic. The other nine countries ahead of India are -- US, Brazil, Russia, Spain, United Kingdom, Italy, France, Germany, and Turkey. India on Monday recorded a jump of 6,977 cases in a single day and 154 deaths in 24 hours, Union Health Ministry data said. Of the total Covid-19 cases, 77,103 are active cases, 57,721 people have been cured while at least 4,021 individuals have lost their lives to the highly infectious disease. However, at least 3,280 people have recovered since Sunday, taking the recovery rate of the country to around 42 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-registers-145-new-covid-19-cases-state-count-climbs-to-7-173/story-FZUGWhsDwXqFQBYCnF9H3K.html
25-05-2020||India||BSF’s exchange of sweets on Eid reflects status of India’s ties with Pak, Bangladesh||The continuing tension between India and Pakistan also showed on the festival of Eid this year when the customary exchange of sweets between the Indian Border Security Force (BSF) and the Pakistani Rangers didn’t take place , reported PTI. However, the much improved relations with Bangladesh meant that the two sides exchanged sweets on the holiest festival of Muslims on Monday.India and Pakistan’s relations have rarely been normal but have worsened from time to time including the current streak of tensions that peaked after Pulwama terror attack on February 14, 2019 that killed at least 40 CRPF personnel. India held a Pakistan based terror group responsible for the attack and carried out air strikes to destroy a Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) terror hideout in Pakistani territory of Balakot. That led to a dogfight between the two countries’ fighter planes. The tensions only escalated after India’s decision to abrogate Article 370-- which granted Jammu and Kashmir special status-- and bifurcate the state into two union territories. India has since then accused Pakistan of trying to push even more militants into Jammu and Kashmir to destabilize the region and attract international attention.Incidents of cross-border terrorism haven’t ceased even as nations around the world are busy fighting the coronavirus pandemic. The Indian military establishment has said that the Pakistan is now pushing a greater number of militants through its launch pads across the Line of Control (LoC).The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19In the view of the situation, the exchange of sweets did not take place at any location along the India-Pakistan international border from Jammu to Gujarat, the officials quoted by PTI said.According to the official, the BSF had gone ahead and offered sweets during Diwali last year as well as on its raising day-December 1- and also on the Republic Day on January 26, but it was not met with reciprocation by the Pakistani side.However, the BSF exchanged sweets with its Bangladeshi counterpart-- Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB) -- all along the eastern front. India and Bangladesh share a 4,096-km-long international border.“BSF and BGB share a very cordial relationship. Both the countries share a similar culture, traditions and festivals.The warmth and bonding between the countries and border-guarding forces reflect during several occasions, when they share the joy of festivals, including during Eid,” a statement issued by the south Bengal frontier of the BSF quoted by the PTI said.The south Bengal frontier guards 903 km of the India-Bangladesh border.“BSF troops up to the border post level conveyed their best wishes to their companions of Bangladesh. The pleasantries for BGB headquarters were shared at Petrapole (land-border crossing in West Bengal),” the statement added.The BSF, during these events, convey its best wishes and good health to its partner, the BGB, with a hope of a better future ahead, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-s-exchange-of-sweets-on-eid-reflects-india-s-current-ties-with-pak-bangladesh/story-htZ9HMoR92ESflUlIzgDLI.html
25-05-2020||India||Amit Shah condoles demise of legendary hockey player Balbir Singh||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday expressed condolences over the demise of the legendary hockey player, Balbir Singh.The Home Minister also said that Singh left an indelible imprint on the world of hockey with his stick.“Pained to learn about the demise of Padma Shri Balbir Singh Sr Ji, a legendary hockey player, who left an indelible imprint on world hockey with his stick,” Shah tweeted.“I was fortunate to have met the lively and joyful Balbir Ji, a three-time Olympic gold medalist. My condolences to his family,” he added.The veteran hockey player had suffered a cardiac arrest on May 12 and after that, he suffered two more cardiac arrests during the course of his admission in the hospital.“Balbir Singh passed away this morning,” his grandson Kabir said in a statement on Monday.Balbir Singh was a three-time Olympic gold-medal winning champion.He played a key role in India’s Olympic victories in London (1948), as a vice-captain in Helsinki (1952) and as the captain in Melbourne (1956).In his illustrious playing career from 1947-1958, Balbir Sr. won 61 international caps and scored a whopping 246 goals.He was also the manager of the 1975 World Cup-winning team.He was also named as one of the 16 iconic Olympians by the International Olympic Committee in 2012.(The story has been published from a wire feed without any modifications to the text, only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-condoles-demise-of-legendary-hockey-player-balbir-singh/story-t7b2Cd7XpSJu7EMneEJLhN.html
25-05-2020||India||How Rajasthan forest department created jobs in tendu leaf collection during Covid-19 lockdown||Rajasthan forest department created jobs for local communities in Jhalawar as it sold 15 extra units for collection of tendu leaves to locals in open bidding during the coronavirus lockdown, officials said.For the collection of tendu (Diospyros melanoxylon) leaves, forest areas are divided into units which are auctioned between December and January. Rajasthan has 167 units in 14 districts, including 45 in Jhalawar. Only 69 of them were sold during the bids. For the remaining, the divisional forest officers (DFOs) call for open bids. The state will earn Rs 7.5 crore as royalty from these units.Tendu leaf is used to wrap bidis. Leaves of many other plants are also used to as bidis in different parts of the country but traders said the texture, flavour and workability of tendu leaves are unmatchable.In Jhalawar forest areas, merchants from Tonk, Karauli, Madhya Pradesh, Maharasthra and Gujarat come for collection of leaves and bring specialised labour from their native places.Also read: Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan cross 7000-mark, death toll 163This time, due to the lockdown restrictions, this was not possible. Also, there was an objection from the local public representatives, who said labourers from outside may bring the virus with them and infect locals.“We held dialogues with the representatives and merchants to find solutions. We got the merchants to give priority to local community in collection of leaves,” said Jhalawar DFO Hemant Singh.“We also encouraged the local representative to take up the units as the collection was less in other states such as Chhatisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha due to the lockdown and untimely showers,” he added.In Jhalawar, 15 more units were sold in an open bidding during the lockdown. For the first time, more than 90% of people, labourers and supervisors, involved in collection in the district, were locals, including many first-timers. “This will make the locals self-reliant and will be beneficial for the local economy,” the DFO said.Singh said that more than 2,500 families from 240 villages are benefitting from these efforts which have led to the generation of extra 75,000 man days. About 50-60 labourers can work in one unit of an average size. They collect leaves from the forest in the morning and stack them in bundles of 50 each. These bundles are then given to the unit holders. Payment – one rupee per bundle – is made immediately and in cash. One family can make around 500 bundles in a day.“For merchants from outside, our staff, especially rangers, helped them in coordination with the district administration in medical screening, arranging logistics and labourers. This encouraged more traders to come to Jhalawar who were initially reluctant because of the curbs,” Singh said.The officer said that people in villages are happy as it’s like a small event for them every year and everyone is involved. “During this time there is no work in the fields. Unlike in MNREGS, here we get instant cash which can be used to buy seeds and preparing fields for Kharif crops,” said Ramlal, a small farmer in Mandawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-rajasthan-forest-department-created-jobs-in-tendu-leaf-collection-during-covid-19-lockdown/story-0eSkHJGASwLDi1k3rOwQqO.html
25-05-2020||India||In 2am tweet, Piyush Goyal seeks trains’ list from Maharashtra. Sena replies||A war of words has broken out between Union Minister for Railways and Commerce & Industry Piyush Goyal and Shiv Sena member of Rajya Sabha Sanjay Raut over an alleged 50% less number of Shramik Special trains being provided daily to ferry stranded migrant workers out of Maharashtra, which has reported the maximum number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases in the country. On Sunday, hours after Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said the rail authorities have managed to provide only 50% of the trains required to ferry stranded migrant workers back to their home states, Goyal tweeted that they could arrange 125 trains on conditions that they don’t run “empty” and also sought a list of passengers.Earlier, the CM had said that though he had requested the rail authorities to run 80 Shramik Special trains daily, only 40 are operating.Goyal put out a flurry of tweets in response to Thackeray’s plea and sought various passenger details such as their boarding stations, medical certificates, etc., over the next hour. Later, he again tweeted that the Maharashtra government has been unable to provide the required information even after one and a half hours. He cited that planning 125 trains would take time and the rail authorities would be unable to accede to the state government’s request unless they have full details.Raut sprang to the CM’s defence and took on Goyal.“Maharashtra government has submitted a list to the rail authorities. There is only one request to Piyush Goyalji that the trains should reach their destinations. The train going to Gorakhpur should not end up in Odisha,” Raut said.He took a potshot at Goyal and was referring to last week’s incident where hundreds of migrant labourers travelling to their native Uttar Pradesh were instead taken to Rourkela in Odisha. Later, the rail authorities claimed that it was a planned diversion due to congestion on some routes.On Monday, too, Goyal kept up the heat on the state government.“Where is the list for 125 trains from Maharashtra? As of 2am, I received a list of only 46 trains of which five are to West Bengal and Odisha, which cannot operate due to cyclone Amphan. We are notifying only 41 trains for Monday, despite being prepared for 125 !!!,” he tweeted.Raut replied to Goyal via a tweet. “Piyushji, what list was sought for Nagpur-Udhampur train that left on May 14. Please share what efforts have been made to arrange trains first and then to gather passengers? Now, which list are you seeking? Don’t forget that you represent Maharashtra in the Rajya Sabha.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/war-of-words-between-piyush-goyal-and-sanjay-raut-over-shramik-trains-from-maharashtra/story-oiNXxyVdSTpCSKgvMWCyOJ.html
25-05-2020||India||Coronavirus pandemic hits donations to Ayodhya’s Ram Mandir trust||The coronavirus pandemic seems to have affected donations to the Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust, which was constituted by the Centre for the construction of Ram temple in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya.Devotees have donated around Rs 4.70 crore solar through online transfers in two bank accounts in the State Bank of India’s main branch in Ayodhya opened in March. One of them has around Rs 2 crore and the remaining amount is in another.“The trust has received donations of around Rs 4.70 crore till date. Once the construction work of the Ram Mandir begins, donations will increase,” a member of the trust, who did not want to be named, said.The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) has said donations made to the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra are eligible for deduction under Section 80G of Income Tax Act, 1961. “The trust and the VHP are optimistic that once the coronavirus scare subsides and the bhoomi pujan at Ram Janmabhoomi in Ayodhya takes place for the construction of Ram Mandir, the focus will again shift to the temple,” Sharad Sharma, regional spokesperson of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad, said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi was expected to take part in the bhumi pujan or ground laying ceremony in Ayodhya in April but the ceremony was deferred due to the coronavirus pandemic.Now, the much-awaited ceremony is expected only after the lockdown is lifted and the virus scare subsides.The trust also has Rs 12 crore as fixed deposit in another bank, which it received from the former receiver of the Ram Janmabhoomi after its formation. It has also received some gold ornaments from the receiver and Rs 1 crore from the Ram Janmabhoomi Nyas, which spearheaded the Ram Mandir movement across the country since the 1990s.However, these have not yet been transferred in the two current accounts of the new trust.The Supreme Court had appointed divisional commissioner of Ayodhya, formerly known as Faizabad, as the receiver of the Ram Janmabhoomi. However, after the formation of the new trust, divisional commissioner MP Agarwal handed over the charge to Ayodhya Naresh Vimlendra Mohan Pratap Mishra, a member of the trust.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-pandemic-hits-donations-to-ayodhya-s-ram-mandir-trust/story-q1GLdH9ZGdcjJBx7lzchAN.html
25-05-2020||India||Govt distances from bad quality PPEs, says its procuring from tested suppliers||The central ministry of health has reacted to media reports alleging bad quality PPE (personal protection equipment) kits were exposing medical care professionals to risks in several parts of the country and said the bad-quality products referred to in the reports are not cleared by government agencies and added that there was no shortage of approved and tested PPES and N-95 masks which have been supplied in ample quantities to states and union territories to be used while handling coronavirus patients or suspects.“There are some reports in a section of the media expressing concern about the quality of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) coveralls. The products under reference have no relevance to the procurement being made by the Central Government,” an official statement from the ministry of health stated on Monday.While the statement doesn’t mention the reports in particular that made the claim, however, a few in the past days have questioned the quality of the PPEs supplied locally to medical professionals in Ghaziabad. A prominent Hindi daily had claimed that some new kits produced and procured locally were found to be worn out and torn in places. It blamed the poor quality of kits to be among the reasons for the government doctors and other healthcare professionals catching the disease in the district. The UP government then decided to ban local procurement. Another report had cited complaints regarding poor quality PPE kits by some surgeons in Ludhiana Civil Hospital.The ministry of health in its statement said that the central government had cleared PPE manufacturers and suppliers after applying stringent quality testing standards set by the ministry of textiles.“HLL Lifecare Limited (HLL), the procuring agency of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, is procuring PPE coveralls from manufacturers/suppliers only after getting their coveralls tested and approved by one of the eight labs nominated by the Ministry of Textiles (MoT) for testing the same. It is only after their products qualify in the test prescribed by the technical committee (JMG) of the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, that they are procured,” the ministry explained.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19It added that random sampling of the supplies is also being made and the company that fails to meet the standards is being disqualified for any future procurement.“All the States/UTs have been asked to ensure procurement which is being carried out at their level after following the prescribed testing for PPEs from MoT nominated labs. In addition, manufacturers who have got their products qualified from these labs are also being on-boarded on Government e-Marketplace (GeM),” the statement adds.The ministry said the information about qualified and approved manufacturers and suppliers was available on the Government e-Marketplace (GeM) for the states and the private sector to use.The ministry further pointed out that there was no shortage of safety equipment and essentials as the country had ramped up its domestic production capacity of PPEs and N95 masks and the requirements of the States/UTs are being sufficiently met.“Today, the country is producing more than 3 lakh PPEs and N95 masks per day. States/UTs as well as Central Institutions have been provided with around 111.08 lakh N-95 masks and around 74.48 lakh Personal Protective Equipment (PPE),” said the ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-distances-from-bad-quality-ppes-says-its-procuring-from-tested-suppliers/story-DsKm5GU9Uhf3h7Nxc7oFWL.html
25-05-2020||India||‘Indians soar in the skies again’: Minister hails resumption of domestic air travel||Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri hailed the resumption of air travel in India by tweeting a live image of the air traffic above Indian skies. The image was taken from Flight Radar 24, an air traffic montitoring website.“Indians soar in the skies again! A beautiful live capture from #flightradar24 shows how our skies look busy again as domestic civil aviation recommences in India from today,” Puri said in the tweet. Indians soar in the skies again!  A beautiful live capture from #flightradar24 shows how our skies look busy again as domestic civil aviation recommences in India from today.@MoCA_GoI @AAI_Official @DGCAIndia @flyspicejet @airindiain @IndiGo6E @airvistara @goairlinesindia pic.twitter.com/LytA1H8xcHAir travel across the country resumed on Monday, after a gap of two months, with all states finally agreeing to accept at least some flights but announcing varied quarantine and self-isolation rules for arriving passengers to address misgivings about infections being brought in from other cities.Hundreds of passengers wearing masks and maintaining social distance were seen at airports across the country.The first flight out of Delhi since lockdown was to Pune, which flew out at 4:45am, and the second was from Mumbai to Patna that departed at 6.45am. Both the flights were operated by IndiGo. The first domestic passenger flight to arrive at Delhi airport on Monday at 7.45am was from Ahmedabad. It was operated by SpiceJet.Security and airport personnel in protective gears were seen screening passengers at several airports across the country as fliers observed social distancing. A large number of flights were also cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Aviation industry sources said, around 82 flights - departures and arrivals - have been cancelled at the Delhi airport on Monday morning, reported news agency PTI.States like Maharashtra, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu, which are home to some of the busiest airports in the country, were reluctant to allow domestic flight services from their airports, citing swelling cases of the coronavirus infection in their states.The West Bengal government did not relent to a request by the civil aviation ministry to allow flight services.It was decided on Sunday that the state will gradually permit domestic flights from May 28 under strict guidelines. Andhra Pradesh too did not allow any flights on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indians-soar-in-the-skies-again-minister-hails-resumption-of-domestic-air-travel/story-bOJU9by6LqAMQnXPPyYIYI.html
25-05-2020||India||Pune: Domestic flights resume; 34 flights to operate this week||Pune: Domestic flight operations resumed at Lohegaon airport on Monday morning since nationwide lockdown restrictions were imposed on March 25 to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Three flights took off in the morning and another two landed. “Two flights, carrying 158 passengers on board, arrived and another three departed with 372 passengers,” said an official of the Airport Authority of India (AAI).Altogether 34 flights will operate this week, including seven daily. The flight destinations include Delhi, Chennai, Cochin, Belgaum, Kolkata, Bengaluru, Jaipur, Hyderabad, and Ahmedabad.“All the necessary safety arrangements for the passengers have been done at the airport in coordination with the Pune district administration. Passengers have to comply with three parametres before boarding a flight. There must be a green mark on the Aarogya Setu application on their mobile phones, not running a fever and always wearing face masks,” said Kuldeep Singh, director, Pune airport.Ride-hailing private cab aggregators such as Uber and Ola are not available at the airport because of the prevailing lockdown restrictions in Pune, a red zone. Passengers have been urged to travel to and from the airport by their own vehicles. There is limited parking space at the airport in a bid to maintain social distancing norms.All passengers, who arrived in Pune, were stamped in their hands and advised 14-day isolation at home. The AAI authorities will regularly update the flight schedule for passengers’ convenience.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pune-domestic-flights-resume-34-flights-to-operate-this-week/story-8o9yYTAShV6wWtx8u4saAL.html
25-05-2020||India||5-year-old flies alone from Delhi, mother receives him at Bengaluru airport||An unaccompanied five-year-old was among the several air passengers who arrived at the Kempegowda International Airport in Bengaluru on Monday.Vihaan Sharma travelled alone from Delhi and was greeted at the airport by his mother, who saw him after three months. “My five-yr-old son Vihaan Sharma has travelled alone from Delhi, he has come back to Bengaluru after three months,” his mother was quoted as saying by the news agency ANI. Welcome home, Vihaan! #BLRairport is constantly working towards enabling the safe return of all our passengers. https://t.co/WJghN5wsKwThe Karnataka government has said that the people coming from high Covid-19 prevalent states - Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh - will have to undergo institutional quarantine for a period of seven days and charges to be borne by the passengers. Also Watch | From aircraft to airports, sanitization increased to tackle Covid threatHowever, home quarantine is allowed for pregnant women, children below the age of 10 years, senior citizens of 80 years and above and terminally ill patients along with one attendant after their test result is negative.The city airport will see nearly 107 flights departing and about hundred arrivals as domestic air travel resumed on Monday after nearly two months of Covid-19 mandated lockdown.In an effort to protect passengers and staff from the risk of COVID-19 transmission, Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL) that operates the city airport has introduced a Parking-to-Boarding contactless journey.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-year-old-flies-alone-from-delhi-mother-receives-him-at-bengaluru-airport/story-Ech6VTiPBc56YZKjL2hzjK.html
25-05-2020||India||Lakshadweep: The only place in India with no coronavirus cases||After Nagaland, which reported its first Covid-19 case on Monday, Lakshdweep is the only island which has remained free of the disease which has affected over 1.3 lakh people in India and more than five million globally.The beautiful archipelago consisting of 36 islands has a population of about 64,000 people. The union territory is located off the coast of Kerala and depends on the southern state for much of its needs.Nagaland, the only other state/union territory in India which was free from the coronavirus disease till now, reported three positive cases on Monday.The three people had come from Chennai onboard a Shramik Express train.“Unfortunately, 2 persons in Dimapur and 1 in Kohima have been tested positive for COVID-19. Please don’t panic. We need to handle this with utmost care and responsibility. Necessary action of contact tracing and containment measures are being taken and situation closely monitored,” Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio tweeted.On Saturday, Sikkim reported its first case as a 25-year-old student who recently returned from Delhi tested positive.The state health authorities had said that 17 people came in contact with the infected person in Sikkim. However, all of them tested negative. The test were conducted on Sunday.However, they have been kept in institutional quarantine and their health parameters are being monitored, officials said.Most of the Covid-19 free states were in the North-East. Arunachal Pradesh, which was free from the disease for a month, reported a fresh case in the form of a student who returned to the state from Delhi by bus along with 33 others on May 18.Arunachal Pradesh had become coronavirus free after its lone patient, a 31-year-old man who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi in March, was discharged from hospital on April 24.Dadra and Nagar Haveli has two cases of Covid-19, as per the update on the website of Union health ministry on Monday.Meanwhile, India reported a record high of 6,977 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours. This took the tally of infections to 1,38,845, data from the Union health ministry showed.Monday is the fourth-straight day that India has reported the biggest one-day rise in the number of infections and more than 6,000 Covid-19 cases across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakshadweep-the-only-place-in-india-with-no-coronavirus-cases/story-iFMRpzvz5kwLUp27xI8fQJ.html
25-05-2020||India||Delhi reports sharp single-day rise of 635 Covid-19 cases, tally crosses 14,000||Delhi has reported 635 fresh cases of Covid-19 in a steep single-day rise in coronavirus infections. As per the update shared by the Delhi state health department, with the addition of new Covid-19 cases, the city’s Covid-19 tally has jumped to 14,053.According to the bulletin, there are 7,006 active cases of coronavirus in Delhi while 6,771 patients have recovered or have been discharged from the hospital. The Covid-19 death toll in Delhi has risen to 276. Also read: ‘Not many severe cases, low death rate’: Kejriwal says Covid-19 situation is in controlDelhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday said that 508 new Covid-19 infections were reported in the national capital till May 23 midnight. The national capital has reported over 500 fresh coronavirus infections daily this past week. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said that over 3,500 fresh Covid-19 cases have been registered in the national capital since the past week while roughly 1,500 patients have recovered from the infection. Also read: 20% beds reserved for Covid-19 in Delhi’s private hospitals, tracking system in the offingIn an online address, the chief minister said that although the cases are rising, the situation is under control as most cases are not severe and are being treated at home. “The rate of fatalities is also not high, however, we are prepared for a spike in severe cases if it happens,” Kejriwal said.  Over 5,000 hospital beds will be made available for Covid-19 patients in Delhi.Private hospitals across the national capital have been directed to keep 20% of their beds reserved for Covid-19 patients. “This will lead to the availability of 2,000 more beds for Covid-19 patients,” the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-reports-sharp-single-day-rise-of-635-covid-19-cases-tally-crosses-14-000/story-oQMlK2Gy30T5WXE02qQs9H.html
25-05-2020||India||Nagaland reports three Covid-19 positive cases||Nagaland, which was the only state in the country not to report a single coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive case till Sunday lost its status the following day as three persons have been diagnosed to have contracted SARS-CoV-2 that causes the disease.“The first Covid-19 positive cases have been reported in Nagaland. Three persons, who returned to the state from Chennai by a Shramik Special train, have tested Covid-19 positive,” Nagaland health minister S Pangnyu Phom tweeted.“They are undergoing treatment at Dimapur District Hospital and Covid-19 hospital at Chedema in Kohima, respectively. Their condition is stable. We’re tracing all those who came in contact with them since their return,” he further tweeted.“Unfortunately, two persons in Dimapur and one in Kohima have tested Covid-19 positive. Please don’t panic. We need to handle this with care and responsibility. Necessary action of contact tracing and containment measures are being taken. The situation is being closely monitored,” Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio tweeted.Menukhol John, principal secretary, health and family welfare, told media persons in Kohima that two cases were symptomatic and one was asymptomatic. He appealed to the public not to stigmatise the patients and support the healthcare workers who are providing care to the patients.“These cases are not local. They’ve been brought by travellers who returned to Nagaland. We’ve started active surveillance and contact tracing. We’re doing our best to contain the disease,” John said.State chief secretary Temjen Toy told media persons that efforts are on to conduct more tests.“All those returning to Nagaland will be tested. This is the time for the people of Nagaland to rise up to the occasion and show our innate goodness and cooperation to set an example,” said Toy.Earlier in April, a 33-year-old businessman from Dimapur, who had tested Covid-19 positive and treated in Guwahati in April, was added to Assam’s tally by the Union Ministry of Health & Family Welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-reports-three-covid-19-positive-cases/story-WL0m9QPDTwxgV2KhpuNaCP.html
25-05-2020||India||Lac cultivation to be given status of agriculture: Chhattisgarh CM Baghel||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Monday okayed the forest department’s proposal to declare lac farming as an agricultural activity, saying it would make it a profitable endeavour for farmers.The CM instructed Agriculture, Forest and Cooperative departments to present a proposal in the next meeting of the cabinet to include lac and other such profit-yielding produce in agriculture.“Once lac farming gets the status of agriculture in the state, farmers associated with lac production would also be able to avail easy loans through co-operative committees like other farmers,” a senior government official said.Chhattisgarh is one of the leading producers of lac in the country.“Lac cultivation is being practised by the farmers on Kusum, Palash and Berry trees in a traditional manner. But due to lack of modern and systematic way of farming, farmers fail to derive the expected profit. In a move to make lac cultivation profitable for farmers, the forest department while suggesting the CM to include lac farming under agriculture and provide opportunities to lac growing farmers to avail loans through agricultural cooperative committees like other farmers, had requested him to accept the proposal sent in this regard,” said a government press release.Lac is the resinous secretion of a number of species of lac insects. Thousands of lac insects colonise the branches of the host trees and secrete the resinous pigment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lac-cultivation-to-be-given-status-of-agriculture-chhattisgarh-cm-baghel/story-CbRK72ebxeFEntSJONtf6I.html
25-05-2020||India||Kejriwal says 20% beds reserved for Covid-19 patients in private hospitals, tracking system in the offing: 10 points||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said that the coronavirus situation in the national capital is under control and there is nothing to panic. The chief minister said that although cases are rising, people are getting treated and recovering from the disease.Kejriwal said the number of deaths due to Covid-19 is not high and not many severe cases of coronavirus are being reported, as a result, not many hospital beds across the national capital are occupied while most Covid-19 patients are getting treated at their homes.The chief minister added that the administration is getting ready to tackle a sudden spike in severe cases of coronavirus for which over 5,000 hospital beds will be made available.Here are key takeaways from Kejriwal’s address: 1) “Of around 4,000 hospital beds available with the government, around 1,500 are occupied while nearly 2,500 beds are unoccupied,” Kejriwal said.2) Private hospitals across the national capital have been directed to keep 20% of their beds reserved for Covid-19 patients. “This will lead to the availability of 2,000 more beds for Covid-19 patients,” he said.3) Delhi’s Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital will provide another 1,500 hospital beds for Covid-19 patients. In total, more than 5,000 beds will be available for fresh Covid-19 patients.Also read: ‘Not many severe cases, low death rate’ - Kejriwal says Covid-19 situation is in control4) The administration has placed an order for 2,000 hospital beds with oxygen. “Severe Covid-19 patients require oxygens hence the availability of such beds is very critical,” the chief minister said.5) CM Kejriwal said that most new cases of coronavirus are either showing mild symptoms or are asymptomatic. Over 3,000 active cases are currently being treated at home.6) Of over 13,000 Covid-19 cases in Delhi, over 6,000 have recovered from the disease while roughly 6,000 are currently being treated for Covid-19. “3,414 Covid-19 patients with mild symptoms are getting treated at home,” Kejriwal said.7) The administration is working on a system which will help a severe Covid-19 patient track the availability of hospital beds for treatment. “We will share the details in the coming days,” the chief minister said. 8) Ever since lockdown curbs were partially lifted last week, the national capital has reported around fresh 3,500 Covid-19 cases while nearly 1,500 patients have recovered. “Fresh cases are being reported but patients are also recovering and going home,” he said.Also read: With nearly 7,000 Covid-19 cases in 24 hrs, India records biggest surge for 4th day9) “As many as 1,750 Covid-19 patients were admitted in hospitals on May 17. The figure has risen to 2,000 at present. Only 250 new patients have occupied beds across various hospitals in one week,” Kejriwal said.10) Of 250 ventilators at government hospitals, only 11 are currently in use while 15 of 72 ventilators in private hospitals are being occupied by Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-says-20-beds-reserved-for-covid-19-patients-in-private-hospitals-tracking-system-in-the-offing-10-points/story-ggog5jHiM6Y1eWCttwIj5M.html
25-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan wreaks havoc on IIM Calcutta campus||Cyclone Amphan as it slammed West Bengal last Wednesday also wreaked havoc on the campus of premier business school, IIM Calcutta, which saw several trees uprooted, electricity and telephone lines brought down and the boundary wall caving in.According to the Indian Institute of Management’s director Anju Seth, no one was injured but classes being conducted online because of the coronavirus pandemic stand disrupted.“When cyclone AMPHAN made landfall on 20 May 2020 in West Bengal, it lashed the IIM Calcutta campus with ferocious wind and rain causing considerable damage to infrastructure. Many trees were uprooted in the gale blocking roads, puncturing water supply pipes and bringing down electricity and telephone lines,” Seth said in a statement.Falling trees have also severely damaged the campus boundary wall in a number of places as well as a few buildings.The gale-force winds caused windows and doors in some buildings to blow out and panels of the solar water heating system installed on rooftops to blow away, she added.“Fortunately, no-one was injured during the cyclone. Our campus is known for its scenic lakes, and our water management systems worked well to ensure that none of the lakes overflowed so that we had no flooding in spite of the torrential rain. Unlike many parts of Kolkata, our advance planning ensured we had no electricity outage,” the IIM director said. She said numerous measures were undertaken to restore many essential services to the campus.“We have every expectation that the “Joka Spirit” that the Institute prides itself upon will inspire all stakeholders to participate in rebuilding this great Institute to showcase its pristine and scenic glory,” she said.Seth added that most of IIM, Calcutta’s students are away from campus after they secured jobs during the placement season or are doing summer internships after completing their first year. “Our MBA admissions process is continuing with offers being made to prospective entering students but with delays due to telecom network outages in Kolkata. Online classes for our Executive MBA and Visionary Leadership in Manufacturing have also been disrupted due to these outages, and will resume as soon as connectivity is restored,” she said.At least 85 people were killed in the state and lakhs rendered homeless as Cyclone Amphan cut a path of destruction through half-a-dozen districts of the state last week, flattening houses, uprooting thousands of trees and swamping low-lying areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-wreaks-havoc-on-iim-calcutta-campus/story-VJAkt8cpusGAYJqmvz8goJ.html
25-05-2020||India||MNS chief Raj Thackeray hits back at Yogi Adityanath for ‘seek permission for migrant workers’ remark||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray hit out at Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, saying labourers will have to seek nod of the Maharashtra government if they wish to work here.His remarks came a day after Adityanath said states will have to seek permission from his government if they want Uttar Pradesh’s migrant workers back.“The Maharashtra government needs to take such things seriously. Any worker coming here to work should get duly registered with the government as well as local police. These workers should submit their documents and photographs as well,” Thackeray said in a statement. Also Watch | ‘2,600 special trains in next 10 days, to carry 36 lakh migrants’: RailwaysThe government needs to undertake such an exercise diligently, he added.Adityanath had on Sunday asked officials to set up a migration commission and later said at a webinar that other states would require permission to hire workers from Uttar Pradesh as some states had treated them badly.Besides, working on skill mapping and employment of migrant workers, the commission will fix their wages and come up with social security schemes, including insurance, for them.“The migrants commission will work in the interest of the migrant workers. If any other state wants UP’s manpower, they cannot take them away just like that. Those states will have to do it with the consent and permission of the UP government. The way our migrant workers were ill-treated in those states, the UP government will take their insurance, social security in its hands now. The UP government will stand with them wherever they work, whether in UP, other states or other countries,” Adityanath said at the webinar.Chairing a review meeting on Covid-19 and the lockdown earlier in the day, the chief minister asked the officers concerned to prepare a draft outline for the migration commission.The chief minister also said that his government had facilitated the ‘safe and honourable’ return of 2.3 million (23 lakh) migrant workers so far and it would stay committed to bringing back all those who wanted to return.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mns-chief-raj-thackeray-hits-back-at-yogi-adityanath-for-seek-permission-for-migrant-workers-remark/story-uHWf1vnipuL9AUOQSFQGnM.html
25-05-2020||India||With 103 Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, Odisha records biggest single-day spike||Odisha’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) stood at 1,438 after 103 new cases, in the biggest single-day surge, were reported from across the state in the last 24 hours, reports said on Monday.Most of the Covid-19 cases were reported from Deogarh district, followed by Kendrapara at 15, Jagatsinghpura at 10 and eight from Bhadrak districts, news agency ANI said.Dr Jayant Panda, the spokesperson of Odisha’s health and welfare department, had said last week that the state’s tally may surpass 10,000-mark by the end of June due to the return of migrant workers from Covid-19 hotspots.The surge in numbers come after the state government on Sunday announced a series of relaxations in inter-state and intra-state transportation mainly buses, taxis, auto-rickshaws and two-wheelers, making it easier for people to travel.According to the standard operating procedure (SOP), intra-state movement of two-wheelers, private vehicles, auto-rickshaws, official vehicles and taxis, including cabs by aggregators like Ola, Uber etc, have been allowed except in Covid-19 containment zones. Four wheelers and auto rickshaws can take up to two passengers apart from the driver.Intra-state and city buses can ply with passengers not more than their seating capacity while inter-state buses can ply as per the agreement with neighbouring states. All passengers travelling across the state by any mode of transport will compulsorily have to wear face masks and people with visible symptoms will not be permitted to travel.The relaxation of the lockdown is expected to result in a surge of cases as people will come in contact with each other.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-103-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-odisha-records-biggest-single-day-spike/story-CDt4ifExcpzSIH89T104OP.html
25-05-2020||India||New chopper drone may be deployed along India border: Chinese state media||China’s newly-developed helicopter-drone that made its maiden flight last week may be deployed on the Sino-India border, state media reports said on Monday.The AR500C unmanned helicopter is equipped to carry out fire strikes and disrupt electronic circuitry of its target at heights above 15,000 feet, state media reported.“The test flight of the AR500C came at a time when China-India border tensions have been flaring up, as Chinese border defence troops have bolstered border control measures,” Global Times, the tabloid run by the ruling communist party said in a news report.The tabloid claimed that the Chinese action was a response to India’s recent, illegal construction of defence facilities across the border into Chinese territory in the Galwan Valley region.New Delhi has already dismissed China’s allegations, saying, in fact, Chinese soldiers were hindering patrolling by the Indian armed forces.“Any suggestion that Indian troops had undertaken activity across the LAC in the western [Ladakh] sector or the Sikkim sector is not accurate,” external affairs ministry spokesperson, Anurag Srivastava said last week.Srivastava added: “All Indian activities are entirely on the Indian side of the LAC. In fact, it is [the] Chinese side that has recently undertaken activity hindering India’s normal patrolling patterns.”State media reports about the new drone and its deployment are part of the aggressive narrative put forward by China that it’s India, which is to blame for the soaring tension at the border in Sikkim and Ladakh sectors.China’s state media arms had been similarly aggressive and anti-India during the Doklam (Donglang) stand-off in Bhutan in 2017.Observers say it won’t be very surprising if there are reports of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) carrying out military drills on a “plateau” near a “border” in the days ahead.“Capable of conducting missions including reconnaissance, communication relay, electronic disruption and fire strike at high altitude, this versatile and easy-to-operate drone could help safeguard China’s southwestern borders with India,” analysts told the tabloid.Developed by the state-owned Aviation Industry Corporation of China (AVIC), the unmanned helicopter successfully made its maiden flight at an AVIC base in Poyang, east China’s Jiangxi province, in which it conducted several maneuvers including hovering, horizontal and vertical moves, another leading state media arm, China Central Television (CCTV) reported over the weekend.“As China’s first unmanned helicopter designed to fly in plateau areas, the AR500C can take off at an elevation of 5,000 meters and has a ceiling of 6,700 meters. It has an endurance of five hours, maximum speed of 170 kilometers an hour and a maximum takeoff weight of 500 kilograms,” the GT report said.The Chinese military currently operates the Z-8G, China’s first large transport helicopter, which also focuses on plateau operations.It can take off from nearly 15000 feet above sea level and has a ceiling of nearly 20000 feet and lift troops and supplies to high-altitude areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-chopper-drone-may-be-deployed-along-india-border-chinese-state-media/story-DQUUa0f1flgrPQYDo06oII.html
25-05-2020||India||Assam’s Covid-19 tally doubles from 200 to past 400 in just 4 days||Assam’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crossed the 400-mark with the detection of 35 new cases on Monday morning, officials said.The state has seen a sudden surge in the number of cases in the past few days and it took just four days for the figure to double from the 200-mark to reach 428 with the new cases on Monday.Assam recorded its first Covid-19 case on March 31 when a 52-year-old cancer patient was found infected with the virus. It took another 37 days for the figure to reach 50 on May 7 and just 10 days to double and reach the 100 figure mark on May 17.The figure doubled again to reach 200 cases four days later on May 21 and it crossed 400 cases in another 4 days. The latest surge in positive cases has happened in past 7-10 days since the ban on inter-state movement was lifted on May 4.Of the infections so far, more than 300 cases are of people who have returned to the state by roads and railways in the past three weeks. Till Sunday afternoon, nearly 60,000 people had entered Assam from other states in the region and across the country.“The surge has happened in the past seven days and hence our recovery rate has dropped to 16% in comparison to the national figure of 41%,” health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Sunday.All of the state’s 33 districts have now recorded Cvovid-19 cases. Hojai with 86 cases leads the tally and Dhemaji, which recorded its first patient on Monday, is at the bottom with one case.“Though there has been an increase, one positive aspect is that almost 90% of our total cases are of people who are in quarantine. We have adopted a policy of ruthless quarantine of 14 days for all returnees and it has helped prevent community outbreak of the disease,” said Sarma.A community surveillance campaign by the state government covered 25,000 villages in the state and recorded around 23,000 cases of people with fever. Tests conducted on a section of them who showed Covid-19 like symptoms have come negative for all.Sarma mentioned that a pro-active approach adopted in the last two months has helped Assam put an adequate infrastructure in place and at present, the state has the capacity to treat nearly 5,000 Covid-19 patients.With the resumption of domestic flights from Monday, Assam is expected to get nearly 2,000 passengers daily and it would put additional burden on quarantine and testing facilities.Barring few exceptions, the state has made 14 days institutional and home quarantine mandatory for all returnees including those who would be arriving by flights.“There could be some issues in handling passengers at Guwahati airport on the first day. But that would get streamlined in the next few days,” Sarma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-s-covid-19-tally-doubles-from-200-to-past-400-in-just-4-days/story-T0IvyUO5zrLa2bqKonK1PL.html
25-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Online meetings of the parliamentary panels unlikely and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Online meetings of the parliamentary panels unlikelyPreparations have started in earnest to hold usual in-camera meetings at the Parliament complex, as an earlier plan to hold online meetings of the parliamentary panels appear to have been junked. Read moreSupreme Court allows Air India to operate without leaving middle seat vacant for 10 daysThe Supreme Court on Monday allowed national carrier Air India to operate international flight service with middle seat booking. The court was hearing a petition filed by the Centre and Air India after Bombay high court questioned why the airline was not keeping the middle seats vacant in international flights. Read moreTop LeT terrorist, another gunned down in encounter in J-K’s KulgamA top terrorist of the Lashkar-e-Taiba and another operative were killed by security forces during a gunfight in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Monday, sources said. Read moreCovid-19 surge pushes Mumbai to the brinkOn May 10, a 35-year-old bank loan agent in Mumbai suddenly developed a temperature. With the city firmly in the grip of the coronavirus pandemic, his family was alarmed but he dismissed their concern, saying he hadn’t come in contact with any confirmed Covid-19 patient. Read moreNo break for nature? Here’s how Covid-19 crisis is harming the world’s forestsWith most of the planet locked down due to the Covid-19 crisis, experts believe this could be the time when nature finally takes a break amid low human activity and get into a healing mode. Read moreChina denies using Coronavirus to grow presence in South China SeaChina’s foreign minister is dismissed the claims that the country is exploiting the coronavirus outbreak to expand its footprint in the South China Sea, labelling such accusations as “sheer nonsense.” Read moreHong Kong security chief warns of growing ‘terrorism’ as government backs Beijing’s planned security lawsHong Kong’s security chief said “terrorism” was growing in the city, as government departments rallied on Monday behind Beijing’s plans to introduce national security laws and after thousands took to the streets to protest against the move. Read more‘Little worried but work comes first’: Flight attendant as domestic air services resumeDomestic flight services resume across India after a gap of two months. Passengers were screened before they boarded their flight. Read moreWatch Puddin, the cat’s hilarious reaction to realising it has an ice cube on its pawMany will agree to the fact that cats have a much better sixth sense. Maybe this is why certain cultural icons, such as Catwoman, draw inspiration from these animals who are supposed to be highly aware of their surroundings. Read moreSkin care at home: 4 ways to get glowing, healthy skinThe stress and exhaustion of daily life is most reflected on one’s face and can take a toll on your natural beauty. It manifests itself in the form of wrinkles, dullness, dryness and breakouts on skin, creating a barrier for radiant skin. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-online-meetings-of-the-parliamentary-panels-unlikely-and-all-the-latest-news/story-qTxz8GEFiOAB4GASO2xfUO.html
25-05-2020||India||‘Does virus know’: SC questions full capacity flights for stranded Indians||Air India may operate non-scheduled relief and rescue flights on international routes with middle seat booking till June 6, the Supreme Court ordered on Monday, partially modifying the Bombay high court order of May 22 which had mandated the national carrier to keep middle seats vacant while flying home Indians stranded abroad.A bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI), SA Bobde extended the liberty to Air India to fill up middle seats of the rescue flights after taking into account difficulties which passengers, including families, could face if the centre seat passengers are offloaded.“We are of the considered view that the petitioner, Air India, should be allowed to operate the non-scheduled flights with the middle seats booking upto June 6,” the top court said.Air India and the central government had rushed to the apex court on Sunday seeking a stay on the Bombay high court order.The top court sent the matter back to the Bombay high court to pass an appropriate interim order on June 2, which is the next date of hearing of the case in the high court. Air India will have to comply with the interim order of the Bombay high court while operating non-scheduled flights after June 6.“However, after that (June 6) Air India will operate non-scheduled flights in accordance with the interim order to be passed by the Bombay High Court”, the top court said.During the hearing on Monday, the apex court was critical of Air India’s logic to operate international flights without keeping centre seats vacant.“You should be worried about the health of citizens and not about the health of commercial airlines,” CJI Bobde told solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who was appearing for Air India and the central government.The court also ordered that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) is free to alter any norms during the pendency of the matter in the interest of public health and safety of the passengers rather than commercial considerations.The petitioner before the high court, Deven Yogesh Kanani, who is an Air India pilot himself, had pointed out that operating flights without keeping middle seats vacant was in violation of the circular issued by the DGCA on March 23.Air India had contended that the circular of March 23 applies only to scheduled domestic flights and not non-scheduled international flights. Further, it was also argued by Air India that the March 23 circular has been superseded by a circular issued on May 22 as per which there is no express mandate to keep the middle seats vacant. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta impressed upon the Supreme Court the difficulties which passengers may face if the middle seat bookings are cancelled. He told the court that one-third of the passengers who are expected to be brought in by the non-scheduled flights would be left stranded in foreign airports if the high court order was not stayed.“According to Mr Mehta, this (Bombay high court order) has resulted in a lot of anxiety and difficulties arising from want of proper shelter, money, etc, at the foreign airports. Moreover, in some cases, the travel plan of families who were travelling together has been disrupted because those in the families who had middle seats have to be offloaded,” the Supreme Court noted in its order.The central government also pointed out the difficulties in convincing airport authorities of foreign nations to offload passengers based on an order passed by a court in India. Besides, it was also submitted that keeping the middle seat unoccupied will not help much to prevent the transmission of coronavirus.“How can you say it will not affect anyone? Outside (aircraft), there should be a social distancing of at least 6 feet. Will the Virus know it is in the aircraft and is not supposed to infect?,” the court questioned.The bench, which also comprised justices AS Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy, remarked that there should be no distinction between international and domestic flights when it comes to adherence to social distancing norms.“There shouldn’t be a difference (between international and domestic flights). It is common sense that maintaining social distancing is important,” the court remarked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-days-sc-to-air-india-using-middle-seats-on-flights-for-indians-abroad/story-IyZXiguuVeWTI0W6iNvnnL.html
25-05-2020||India||Locusts swarm in Rajasthan’s Jaipur, move towards Dausa||Residents of Rajasthan’s Jaipur woke up to locusts flying over the city sky on Monday even as officials of the agriculture department said the swarm over the city was on its way to Dausa. More than half of Rajasthan’s 33 districts are affected by invasion by these crop-munching insects.Officials said the swarm that flew over Jaipur city came from Nagaur.“It settled in Sarna Chod and Sanchoti villages in Sanganer tehsil on Sunday night. We were able to control around 30% of the 5km-by-1.5km swarm,” BR Kadwa, deputy director of the agriculture department in Jaipur, said.The remaining insects came to Jaipur city on Monday morning, making people wonder how locusts, which are traditionally known to be attacking western Rajasthan districts bordering Pakistan, could come to the state capital.Locals circulated videos and photos of locust swarms on WhatsApp groups.The swarm, Kadwa said, came from Deedwana in Nagaur and entered Jaipur through Kishangarh Renwal and Jobner.“We carried out the control operations in Jhotwara panchayat samiti area on Saturday night. Then it flew to Vidhyadhar Nagar and Shastri Nagar,” Kadwa said.The Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO)’s Desert Locust Information Service bulletin says that locusts can fly up to 150km in a day and a one-square-kilometre swarm can eat as much food as 35,000 people, in terms of weight, in a single day.“The swarm has crossed Jaipur city and moved towards Dausa,” said Om Prakash, agriculture commissioner.A locust outbreak was reported in Rajasthan in May last year after a gap of 26 years and the attack continued until February this year, damaging crop on at least 670,000 hectares across 12 districts, according to the agriculture department. The state put the loss due to the invasion to about Rs 1,000 crore.The Locust Warning Organisation (LWO) of the Union ministry of agriculture and farmer welfare warned of another attack in May-June this year. Sure enough, an attack was reported in Ganganagar, a north Rajasthan district bordering Pakistan, on May 11. Last year, the swarms were first spotted in Jaisalmer, another bordering town.The United Nations (UN) has warned that armies of locusts swarming across continents pose a “severe risk” to India’s agriculture this year. Authorities across the country have said they have stepped up vigil, deployed drones to detect their movement and held talks with Pakistan, the most likely gateway for an invasion by the insects, on ways to minimise the damage.Uttar Pradesh’s agriculture department on Sunday informed Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and bordering districts of the state about the possibility of locust attack and asked them to take preventive steps accordingly.On Sunday, swarms of locusts arrived in Malhargarh area of Madhya Pradesh’s Mandsaur district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/locusts-swarm-in-rajasthan-s-jaipur-move-towards-dausa/story-l7zpI8Ag6cy9ydd4QhkIpI.html
25-05-2020||India||‘I will be worried if…’: Kejriwal’s status check of Delhi’s Covid-19 cases||A week after partially lifting lockdown restrictions in the national capital, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday addressed the media and said that the coronavirus situation in the city is under control, although cases are rising. The chief minister said that the situation would have been worrying if the Covid-19 death toll was high in the national capital or most positive cases were severe in nature.Apprising the media of the state of healthcare infrastructure in the national capital amid the coronavirus crisis, Kejriwal said that the government hospitals at the moment have 3,829 beds for Covid-19 patients, 3,164 have oxygen available.“Severe Covid-19 patients require oxygens hence the availability of such beds is very critical,” the chief minister said. Also read: With nearly 7,000 Covid-19 cases in 24 hrs, India records biggest surge for 4th day “Of around 4,000 hospital beds available with the government, around 1,500 are occupied while nearly 2,500 beds are unoccupied,” Kejriwal said.  Watch | ‘Covid cases have increased, but there’s nothing to worry’: Arvind KejriwalAt private hospitals, 509 of total 677 beds are occupied by coronavirus patients at present. Kejriwal said that 117 private hospitals across the national capital have been directed to keep 20% of their beds reserved for Covid-19 patients. “This will lead to the availability of 2,000 more beds for Covid-19 patients,” he said.The chief minister said that most new cases of coronavirus are either showing mild symptoms or are asymptomatic. Over 3,000 active cases are currently being treated at home. “Patients with mild symptoms or the asymptomatic ones are treated at home and are not admitted in hospitals. There are 3,414 such Covid-19 patients who are getting treated at home,” Kejriwal said. Also read: 14-day quarantine to 7 days home isolation - Guidelines for air travellersThe Delhi CM said that relaxations in lockdown were announced in Delhi on May 17 after which the administration expected a rise in Covid-19 cases. “A week later, I can say that the situation is under control and there is nothing to panic,” the chief minister said. He said in the past week, the national capital reported around fresh 3,500 Covid-19 cases while nearly 1,500 patients have recovered. “Fresh cases are being reported but patients are also recovering and going home,” he said. “As many as 1,750 Covid-19 patients were admitted in hospitals on May 17. The figure has risen to 2,000 at present. Only 250 new patients have occupied beds across various hospitals in one week,” he said.Kejriwal said that due to most cases being mild or asymptomatic, the load of Covid-19 patients in hospitals is not severe. “However, we are prepared if there is a sudden spike in severe cases of coronavirus patients,” he said.  Of over 13,000 coronavirus patients in Delhi, Kejriwal said nearly half have recovered and half of them are still getting treated. Two hundred and sixty-one people have succumbed to death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/most-new-infections-are-mild-or-asymptomatic-prepared-for-spike-in-severe-cases-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal/story-c0PCPTeFwmlcoWAtmtqjCM.html
25-05-2020||India||Chhattisgarh purchased 98% of the total forest produce amid lockdown||Chhattisgarh government has claimed to have purchased 98% of the country’s total forest produce amid the lockdown restrictions imposed to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The data released by the Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation of India (TRIFED) showed that small forest produce worth more than Rs 18.63 crore have been purchased from forest-dwellers and villagers, the state government claimed.“The number of forests produces purchased at the support price was increased from Rs 7 to Rs 25. Tendu leaf collection rate increased to Rs 4,000 per standard bag. Chhattisgarh accounted for 98% of the total forest produce purchased across India. In the current season, there’s a target of collecting 16.71 lakh standard sacks of tendu leaves that will benefit about 12.53 lakh collectors. A total of Rs 649 crore will be paid directly to them as remuneration. The state government is giving an additional incentive of Rs 13 per kilogram for the fixed support price of mahua flower at Rs 17 per kilogram,” a government press release said.The state government claimed that 139 Van Vikas Kendras have been set up that have created jobs for 1,390 women.“A budgetary provision of Rs 155 crore has been sanctioned for primary processing of minor forest produce to eradicate unemployment in the Bastar division. Imli and cashew processing centres and charota beej collection centres have been established at Jagdalpur,” the release added.The state forest department is planning to engage 4,00,000 bamboo tree guards, involving tribal youth.The cultivation of medicinal plants is also providing job opportunities in the state, the government claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-purchased-98-of-the-total-forest-produce-amid-lockdown/story-IeNs3p88HiyG54OizMctZL.html
25-05-2020||India||After red alert, IMD says relief from Thursday with rains and thunderstorms||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday the heatwave is likely to start subsiding from Thursday as easterly winds will start blowing in northern parts of the country.The weather bureau had on Sunday sounded a red category alert for Delhi, Haryana, Punjab, west and east Rajasthan for Monday and Tuesday for heatwave or severe heatwaves. “Rain accompanied by thunderstorm will start occurring from May 29 due to easterly winds in the northern parts of India and the temperature is expected to go down to 40 degrees Celsius,” Rajendra Kumar Jenamani, head of Regional Specialised Meteorological Centre, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI on Monday.IMD’s bulletin said that heatwave conditions were also likely over Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha and Telangana during the next four to five days. Similar conditions were predicted in some pockets over Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Marathwada, coastal Andhra Pradesh, Yanam, Rayalseema and north-interior Karnataka during next three to four days.A red category alert implies authorities should take action to avoid health emergencies.Delhi recorded the maximum temperature hitting five degrees above normal for the second consecutive day on Sunday. The Safdarjung weather station recorded the maximum temperature at 44.4 degrees Celsius. In Aya Nagar, the maximum temperature was 45.6 degrees Celsius, 6 degrees above normal, and 44.2 degrees Celsius at Lodhi Road.South Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh reported heatwaves and Churu in west Rajasthan reported a severe heatwave on Sunday, with a maximum temperature of 47.4 degrees Celsius.IMD had said Nagpur Sonegaon in the Vidarbha region recorded 46.2 degrees Celsius; Churu in Rajasthan 46.6 degrees Celsius, Akola in Maharashtra 46 degrees Celsius.Rajendra Kumar Jenamani also said that the southwest monsoon is likely to hit Kerala next week.“The southwest monsoon is expected to arrive over Kerala coast between June 1 and June 5 and is likely to reach Mumbai between June 15 and June 20,” Jenamani said.According to IMD, heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely at some places over Assam, Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh from May 24 to 28 because of strong southerly winds from the Bay of Bengal to northeastern states at lower tropospheric levels.Heavy rainfall is also likely over parts of south-peninsular India on May 26 and 27, it had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-red-alert-imd-says-relief-from-thursday-with-rains-and-thunderstorms/story-EgFjPMt2FETzgKYNdSZisM.html
25-05-2020||India||Supreme Court redflags Air India’s full capacity flights, asks Mumbai HC to decide||The Supreme Court on Monday allowed national carrier Air India to operate international flight service with middle seat booking. The court was hearing a petition filed by the Centre and Air India after Bombay high court questioned why the airline was not keeping the middle seats vacant in international flights.“Air India shall be allowed to operate non-scheduled foreign flights with middle seats booking for next 10 days,” Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad Arvind Bobde said.The Bombay high court, while hearing a petition of a pilot, had sought a response from the Air India and the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA).The pilot, Deven Kanani, in his plea claimed a circular issued by the Government of India on March 23, 2020 laid some conditions to prevent the spread of Covid-19 while bringing back Indians stranded abroad due to the pandemic.However, the condition pertaining to keeping the middle seat between two passengers empty was not being followed by the Air India, he said in the plea.Kanani submitted photographs of an Air India flight operated between San Francisco and Mumbai where all seats were occupied.Air India counsel Abhinav Chandrachud opposed the plea and told the high court that the circular of March 23 has been now superseded with a new circular issued by the Government of India on May 22, 2020 while permitting domestic flights to operate from May 25The new circular does not say the middle seat needs to be kept empty, Chandrachud told the court.A division bench of Justices R D Dhanuka and Abhay Ahuja on Friday, however, noted that a cursory glance at the circular dated May 22 indicates that it applies only to domestic operations and not to international operations.The bench directed Air India and DGCA to file affidavits clarifying their stand, and posted the petition for further hearing on June 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-allows-air-india-to-operate-without-leaving-middle-seat-vacant-for-10-days/story-kikIEqjct0HDPXnk6uZ97N.html
25-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan-hit people get help from various organisations||Organisations of different types philanthropic and industrial reached out to thousands of people affected by Cyclone Amphan in West Bengal.The Bharat Sevashram Sangha, Ramakrishna Mission and the Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) have started providing cooked and dry foods to the people who have lost everything because of the cyclone that ravaged the state after making landfall in the evening of May 20 and claimed at least 86 lives.Bharat Seva Sangha Principal Secretary Swami Biswatmananda said they have activated community kitchen in several affected locations through their ashrams and schools they run to support over 30,000 people with cooked food.“People had taken shelter in our ashrams and schools in Gangasagar, Namkhana and other locations. I have issued an instruction that none should be turned down. Full-fledged kitchens in North and South 24 Parganas districts have started,” he said.The CII said they will distribute three tonne of dry food such as biscuits, baby food, milk, instant noodles and other articles.“CII has formed a task force. It has mobilized relief work and has got in touch with the district administrations.CII has got in touch with Disaster Management. Government is in the process of preparing requirement list and will send to the CII,” according to a statement of the industrial body.The Ramakrishna Math and Mission also said it will lend a helping hand to the victims of the Cyclone Amphan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-hit-people-get-help-from-various-organisations/story-ulroKUZn7VZ7be7hqca1PJ.html
25-05-2020||India||Passengers complain as nearly 80 flights to and from Delhi cancelled amid restrictions by states||Several passengers said their flights were cancelled and complained they did not get any intimation from airlines as domestic services resumed after a gap of two months on Monday.Officials said nearly 80 flights to and from Delhi were cancelled due to restrictions by states, officials said.Several passengers in Mumbai and Bengaluru also complained about cancellations.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “Only when our boarding passes were scanned at the airport entry we were told that boarding has been cancelled. We don’t know what to do now,” a passenger of an Air India Bengaluru-Hyderabad flight said, according to ANI. Also Watch | From aircraft to airports, sanitization increased to tackle Covid threatAll commercial passenger flights resumed, except in Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal, after being suspended towards the end of March when the government imposed a nationwide lockdown to curb the coronavirus pandemic.The first flight out of Delhi since lockdown was to Pune, which flew out at 4:45am, and the second was from Mumbai to Patna that departed at 6.45am. Both the flights were operated by IndiGo. “The first flight departing out of CSMIA (Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport ) will be to Patna at 6:45hrs and flight arriving from Lucknow will be the first arrival flight at 8:20hrs both operated by IndiGo,” Mumbai airport operator MIAL said in a statement.Also read| 14-day quarantine to 7 days home isolation: Guidelines for air travellersThe first domestic passenger flight to arrive at Delhi airport on Monday at 7.45am was from Ahmedabad. It was operated by SpiceJet.Thermal screening, shieldsHundreds of passengers wearing masks were seen at airports across the country on Monday as security and airport personnel in protective gears screened them. News agency ANI tweeted photographs of passengers standing in long queues and wearing face shields inside an aeroplane.“I was in Delhi since the Parliament’s Budget session. Now, I am returning to my state Odisha,” Anubhav Mohanty, the Biju Janata Dal lawmaker, said, according to ANI.He was on a Vistara flight from Delhi to Bhubaneswar.Cabin crew members were also seen in blue personal protection equipment (PPE) inside flights.“I was nervous before the flight but all passengers were taking precautions. Very few people travelling right now,” a passenger who arrived in Pune told ANI.The flights resumed after the ministry civil aviation held several discussions with states and airline representatives on Sunday.“It has been a long day of hard negotiations with various state governments to recommence civil aviation operations in the country. Except Andhra Pradesh which will start on 26/5 and West Bengal on 28/5, domestic flights will recommence across the country from tomorrow,” civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri said in a tweet on Sunday evening.State governments have issued their do’s and don’ts, including thermal screening, quarantines, social distancing at the airport and no-contact check-in. The government had announced last Thursday that one-third of pre-lockdown domestic flights will operate from Monday. Aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri has indicated that international flights could begin in June.‘Work comes first’Flight attendants were also seen wearing masks at the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport’s Terminal 3 in Delhi.A flight attendant said they will have to interact less with passengers now in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.“We are a little worried but work comes first. We will get personal protective equipment (PPE) kits from the airline,” Amandeep Kaur, a flight attendant, told ANI.Food and beverage and retail outlets also opened at the airport as domestic flight services resumed.The Airports Authority of India (AAI) had last Thursday issued standard operating procedures (SOP) for airports as part of preparations for the recommencement of domestic commercial flight operations/Airports have been advised to ensure that passenger seating arrangement shall be done in such a manner so as to maintain social distancing among passengers using chairs by blocking those seats that are not to be used, with proper markers or tapes.All passengers also must compulsorily be registered with the Aarogya Setu app on their phones as per the directives. Apart from this, alternate check-in counters should be used to avoid congestion.The airport staff must be provided PPE kits, face masks etc, and should also be provided with hand sanitisers.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/passengers-complain-as-nearly-80-flights-to-and-from-delhi-cancelled-amid-restrictions-by-states/story-Gvm0f1roFY2l9l68LyW6nL.html
25-05-2020||India||MP’s Mandsaur district battles locust invasion||Swarms of locusts arrived in Malhargarh area of Madhya Pradesh’s Mandsaur district on Sunday.“Scientists from central locust team and agricultural science department conducted an exercise and removed around 60 per cent of them by spraying,” said Manoj Pushp, Mandsaur District Magistrate.Uttar Pradesh Agriculture Department on Sunday informed Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and bordering districts of the State about the possibility of locust attack and asked them to take preventive steps accordingly.“It said that at the point of the attack by the locusts, the farmers should make noise by playing the drums, plates, etc. “The farmers can also spray the recommended agricultural defence chemicals like tractor mounted sprayers, power sprayers, etc,” adds the statement.During the current year, locust swarms have entered India earlier than their normal time of June and July. States are adopting various means to control the swarm of locust,” said Spokesperson, Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change.Meanwhile, to deal with a common enemy, India has proposed a coordinated response to tackle Desert Locust along the border to Pakistan and also offered to facilitate the supply of insecticide Malathion to Islamabad for the same.This comes amid nationwide lockdown imposed as a precautionary measure to contain the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-s-mandsaur-district-battles-locust-invasion/story-6zPYYP1nLBSFcmUvQXHVhL.html
25-05-2020||India||Passports of 5 people close to Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad seized: Report||The Delhi Police’s crime branch has seized the passport and other documents of people close to Maulana Saad, the chief of Tablighi Markaz which emerged as the single biggest source of coronavirus disease in the national capital.According to Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan, the crime branch has seized documents of five people who were key in running the operations of Jamaat’s markaz (centre). Since their passports have been seized, none of the five people can leave the country till investigation is complete.Maulana Saad’s three sons and a nephew are being investigated by the crime branch. They form the core team at the markaz.Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had said on Sunday that India felt a “big jolt” with the sudden spike in cases following the Nizamuddin markaz incident. He asserted that the incident was a lesson for all communities that when a collective decision is taken by the country it must be followed with discipline.A large congregation organised in March by the Tablighi Jamaat in the Nizamuddin area of the national capital had emerged as a major hotspot. Some of the participants, who were later tested positive for coronavirus, had travelled to their home states and other areas.“It was an unfortunate incident and is a lesson for all sections and communities in the country that when a country takes a collective decision everyone should follow it with discipline as it is in everyone’s larger interest,” Vardhan said.He hailed the lockdown imposition as a bold decision which acted as a “potent social vaccine” against the virus and said it was taken at the right time.In an interaction with BJP spokesperson G V L Narasimha Rao, Vardhan said that the state governments, the IT department, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Home Minister Amit Shah played an important role in managing the fallout of the Tablighi Jamaat incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/passports-of-5-people-close-to-tablighi-jamaat-chief-maulana-saad-seized-report/story-2E19XdZiMLcdj4daOoM1KM.html
25-05-2020||India||`2 ISJK terrorists gunned down in encounter in J-K’s Kulgam||Security forces killed two terrorists from an Islamic State-inspired group during a gunfight in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Monday, sources said.The terrorists have been identified as Adil Ahmad Wani alias Abu Ibrahim and Shaheen Bashir Thoker, who belonged to the Islamic State of Jammu and Kashmir (ISJK), according to sources.Both Wani and Thoker belonged to Shopian district of Kashmir region, they added. While Wani was active from September 12, 2017, Thoker joined the ranks on August 15 last yearThoker had crossed over to ISJK from the Lashkar-e-Taiba, sources added.They were gunned down during an encounter, which broke out between the terrorists and a joint team of 34 Rashtriya Rifles (RR), Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and the police in Manzgam area of Kulgam district on Monday.Security forces have cordoned a few houses in Mirwani village and evacuating civilians before starting a search operation.Two terrorists were killed in an encounter with security forces at Nawakadal area of Srinagar on May 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encounter-breaks-out-between-terrorists-and-security-forces-jammu-and-kashmir-s-in-kulgam/story-6jf2bK8HblZX45WVr1pYKK.html
25-05-2020||India||A grim milestone for Maharashtra as cases cross 50,000; over 30,000 in Mumbai alone: Covid-19 state tally||In another single-day surge in Covid-19 cases, India reported fresh 6,977 coronavirus infections on Monday, taking the national tally to 138,845. Coronavirus fatalities in the country jumped to 4,021 while over 57,000 people have successfully recovered from the disease across India. Earlier this week, the North-Eastern state of Sikkim, which was untouched by Covid-19 until now, reported its coronavirus first case. Covid-19 infections in Maharashtra crossed 50,000 with more than 30,000 cases reported in Mumbai alone. Here’s taking a look at Covid-19 state-wise tallyTop worst-hit statesMaharashtraCovid-19 cases here Maharashtra crossed the 50,000-mark on Monday with 50,231 patients. The state has recorded 1,635 deaths so far, highest in the country, while over 14,000 patients (14,600) have recovered from Covid-19. Tamil Nadu The southern state has the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country with 16,277 coronavirus cases so far. While 8,324 people have recovered from the disease here, 111 patients have died.GujaratPM Narendra Modi’s home state has witnessed 14,056 get infected from Covid-19 till date. Gujarat has seen 6,412 people recover from coronavirus while 858 people have died.Also read: Centre identifies 4 cities as role models for handling Covid-19 pandemicDelhiThe Covid-19 tally in the national capital has jumped to 13,418. Two hundred and sixty-one people have died from the infection here while 6,540 have made a recovery.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 7,028 on Monday. The state has reported 163 fatalities while 3,848 patients have recovered from the infection in the state.Madhya PradeshAs many as 6,665 people have been infected from Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh till date. Two hundred and ninety people have died from Covid-19 in the state while 3,408 have recovered.Also read: With nearly 7,000 Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, India records biggest surge for 4th dayUttar Pradesh The number of Covid-19 positive cases have jumped to 6,268 in Uttar Pradesh. While 3,538 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 161 have died from the infection here.Situation in other statesIn West Bengal, coronavirus cases have crossed the 3,000-mark and are rapidly rising. The number of infected cases in West Bengal reached 3,667 on Monday. There have been 272 deaths and 1,339 recoveries in the state.States with under 3,000 coronavirus cases include Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Odisha, Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Haryana and Bihar. With 847 Covid-19 cases, Kerala has under 1,000 cases of coronavirus infections. Jharkhand, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Tripura have reported under 500 Covid-19 cases while Goa, Puducherry, Meghalaya and Manipur have less than 100 Covid-19 cases. Union territory of Dadar Nagar Havel has reported two cases of Covid-19 while Sikkim has just one Covid-19 patient. All coronavirus patients in Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram have recovered.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikkim-reports-first-case-number-of-infections-cross-50-000-in-maharashtra-covid-19-state-tally/story-4QGIQ0kg4Jb5wleLniN8dN.html
25-05-2020||India||With nearly 7,000 Covid-19 cases in 24 hrs, India records biggest surge for 4th day||The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases hit a new high on Monday in the country as India reported 6,977 new cases in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of infections to 138,845, data from the Union health ministry showed.Monday is the fourth-straight day that India has reported the biggest one-day rise in the number of infections and more than 6,000 Covid-19 cases across the country.There were 77,103 active cases on Monday morning, nearly four months after the first patient of the coronavirus disease was reported in India in January from Kerala.Also read: Centre identifies 4 cities as role models for handling Covid-19 pandemicThe death toll from the highly infectious disease rose to 4,021 after 154 people died between Sunday and Monday morning, according to the health ministry dashboard.There were 57,720 patients who have been sent home from hospitals, up from 54,440 patients from Sunday, taking the recovery rate to 41.57% so far.The latest 10,000 infections were recorded in two days. India recorded its first 10,000 Covid-19 cases in nearly 43 days, with a wave of infections beginning in March after three isolated cases were first reported in Kerala in January. It took seven days for the cases to climb from 20,000 to 30,000. The disease’s doubling rate, which is defined as the average period it takes for a twofold rise, decreased from 13.9 days on May 18– the day the cases hit 100,000 – to 13.1 on Sunday. Also read: Surge in Covid-19 cases pushes Mumbai to the brinkThe doubling rate, which is calculated over the last seven days, was four days at the beginning of April. Several experts say the peak of the outbreak in India is yet to come. India had on Sunday overtook Iran to become the 10th biggest hotspot of the pathogen after a surge of more than 6,700 new Covid-19 cases.Maharashtra has breached the grim 50,000-mark and reported 1,635 deaths. In Tamil Nadu, more than 16,000 cases have been reported and Delhi has over 13,400 infected people so far.Also read| 14-day quarantine to 7 days home isolation: Guidelines for domestic air travellersGujarat, the fourth worst-affected state, has seen over 14,000 cases and 858 deaths till date.Globally, more than 5.4 million infections have been recorded and 345,060 people have succumbed to the respiratory disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-nearly-7-000-covid-19-cases-in-24-hrs-india-records-biggest-surge-for-4th-day/story-a9OLfWk3detE9o2C8iZ39H.html
25-05-2020||India||‘I was nervous’: First flyers share experience as domestic air services resume||The passengers who took the first flights from various cities in India saw different set of rules at airports. The flights resumed on Monday after a gap of two months.“I was nervous before the flight but all passengers were taking precautions. Very few people are travelling right now,” a woman, who landed at Pune airport on Monday morning, told news agency ANI.Passengers onboard a Delhi-Bhubaneswar Vistara flight were seen wearing face shields as a precautionary measure against Covid-19. One of the passengers was Biju Janata Dal (BJD) MP Anubhav Mohanty.“I was in Delhi since the Parliament’s Budget session. Now, I am returning to my state Odisha,” Mohanty said before boarding to flight at Delhi Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport.Domestic air travel resumed in the country on Monday, after a gap of two months. The air travel was stopped and all flights grounded since March 25 due to the coronavirus pandemic.The flights to Pune and Mumbai were among the first to take off on Monday morning from Delhi airport. Both the flights are operated by private carrier IndiGo.A Delhi-bound Indigo Airlines with 116 passengers was the first flight to be operated from the airport in Chennai on Monday, officials said.It left for the national capital at 6.40 am while a flight from Delhi operated by the same carrier was the first incoming one, albeit with a far lesser number of passengers, at 27.Passengers were screened using a thermometre gun at Delhi airport before boarding Vistara flight to Bhubaneswar (Odisha). The food & beverage (F&B) and retail outlets, which were closed for the past 63 days, opened at Terminal 3 of Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport.The flight services resumed after a day of long and hard negotiations between the Centre and the states on Sunday. All states finally agreed to accept at least some flights but announced varied quarantine and self-isolation rules for arriving passengers to address misgivings about infections being brought in from other cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-was-nervous-first-flyers-share-experience-after-as-domestic-air-services-resume/story-pxXO4YAndq3ySOtNpgz2hI.html
25-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Some states look beyond colour-coding amid Covid lockdown and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 lockdown: Some states look beyond colour-codingColour-coding of zones based on the prevalence of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases is losing relevance in several states that are primarily focusing on containment areas instead to contain the infection, according to local officials. Read moreNearly half of Madhya Pradesh’s Covid-19 cases in Indore, toll at 116Madhya Pradesh’s Covid-19 hotspot Indore saw another 56 cases of the coronavirus disease on Sunday, taking the overall tally in the district to 3,064. As many as 116 people have died of the disease in Indore. Read moreDelhi Metro all set to resume operation after Covid-19 lockdown, lays down rules for passengers: ReportAfter being shut for more than two months, the metro rail services in Delhi will resume soon, Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan reported on Monday. However, the metro which is known for its crowded coaches, will see very less number of people. Read moreEid Mubarak: Wishes from PM Modi to President Kovind on festival of brotherhood and harmonyPresident Ram Nath Kovid and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were among several leaders who extended their greeting on Eid-ul-Fitr as the festival is being celebrated across the country on Monday amid the lockdown to clamp the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read moreHong Kong security chief warns of growing ‘terrorism’ as government backs Beijing’s planned security lawsHong Kong’s security chief said “terrorism” was growing in the city, as government departments rallied on Monday behind Beijing’s plans to introduce national security laws and after thousands took to the streets to protest against the move. Read more‘Hopefully, IPL will happen,’ Shikhar Dhawan explains why T20 tournament is essentialOpener Shikhar Dhawan is keeping his fingers crossed and hopes the IPL takes place this year as he believes it will help the people escape the tension caused by the spread of the Covid-19. Read moreBiryani, kebabs, sheer mal, kheer: Here are a few recipes that you can enjoy this Eid ul-FitrMarking an end to the Holy month of Ramadan, Eid festivities are in full swing, albeit in a subdued manner this year due to the coronavirus pandemic. Eid al-Fitr means ‘festival of breaking the fast’ and it marks the end of 30-day Ramadan. Read moreHappy birthday Karan Johar: Did you know he made his acting debut with a Doordarshan show? Watch videoFrom filmmaker to producer to actor to reality show judge, Karan Johar wears many hats. On his 48th birthday, did you know he started his career in the entertainment industry as a child artiste in a 1989 Doordarshan series titled Indradhanush? Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-some-states-look-beyond-colour-coding-amid-covid-lockdown-and-all-the-latest-news/story-SOpeEi6RNqOwYqW3xeC3LJ.html
25-05-2020||India||Domestic passenger flights resume, India among top 10 worst-hit nations: Covid-19 news today||Domestic air travel resumes today with all states finally agreeing to accept at least some flights even though safety protocols will vary airport to airport. Meanwhile, India overtook Iran on Sunday, breaking into the list of top 10 countries worst affected by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in terms of total number of cases.Domestic flights resume today after ‘long day of hard negotiations’Air travel across the country was set to resume on Monday, with all states finally agreeing to accept at least some flights but announcing varied quarantine and self-isolation rules for arriving passengers to address misgivings about infections being brought in from other cities. Read moreIndia now among 10 worst countries in Covid-19 casesWith the highest one-day national surge of 6,634new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, India on Sunday overtook Iran to become the 10th biggest hot spot of the pathogen, which has rapidly swept the globe, claiming new epicentres across continents and leaving health care systems overwhelmed in its wake. Read moreCovid-19: What you need to know todayA new study on Covid-19 patients from Singapore highlights just why it’s important to refine treatment and hospitalisation policies on the basis of science. Bloomberg News reported on Sunday that a joint paper by the country’s National Centre for Infectious Diseases and the Academy of Medicine showed that patients were no longer contagious 11 days after infection. Read more20% beds in 117 private hospitals to be reserved for Covid-19 surgePrivate hospitals with 50 or more beds will need to set aside 20% of their bed strength for Covid-19 patients, the Delhi government ordered on Sunday in a measure meant to prepare the city’s health care system for a surge in infections. Read moreCentre identifies 4 model cities for Covid handlingFour cities -- Jaipur, Indore, Chennai and Bengaluru -- could serve as possible role models for other urban centres in handling the Covid-19 pandemic that India is striving to control while moving to restart the economy. Read moreSurge in Shramik trains to UP, Bihar clog network, railways cite congestionWith several Shramik Special trains bound for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar being delayed and diverted over the past two days, the ministry of railways on Sunday said the convergence of trains to these destinations have caused congestion in the network adding that the total number of trains to the region has increased. Read moreCovid-19 surge pushes Mumbai to the brinkOn May 10, a 35-year-old bank loan agent in Mumbai suddenly developed a temperature. With the city firmly in the grip of the coronavirus pandemic, his family was alarmed but he dismissed their concern, saying he hadn’t come in contact with any confirmed Covid-19 patient. Read moreCovid-19 dampens Eid celebrations across IndiaUnder the shadow of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Kerala, Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh on Sunday marked Eid al-Fitr, but the usual fervour and celebrations were missing. Read moreVirus strains on bats in China lab not matching Covid-19: DirectorThe Chinese virology institute at the centre of US allegations as the possible source of Covid-19 has three live strains of bat coronavirus on-site, but none of them match the pathogen behind the new pandemic, its director has said. Read morePoverty-stricken, jobless Hyd couple tries to sell infant son for ₹22,000Poverty and lack of work during the lockdown enforced to prevent the spread of Covid-19 drove a migrant couple in Hyderabad to try and sell their two-month old son for Rs 22,000 through a mediator on Sunday. Read moreVirtual courts are not a panacea: ChandrachudThe Covid-19 outbreak forced the Supreme Court to resort to virtual court hearings so that the safety of lawyers, litigants and media personnel was not jeopardised, but such hearings will not replace or be a substitute for physical courts, Supreme Court judge, justice DY Chandrachud, said on Sunday. Read moreAddressing Covid outbreak with clinical studies of Ayush systems: Ayush ministerThe ministry of Ayush (ayurveda, yoga & naturopathy, unani, siddha and homoeopathy) is also active in India’s fight against coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-passenger-flights-resume-india-among-top-10-worst-hit-nations-covid-19-news-today/story-Q72LhAV8erPq3OLMSJ1ryL.html
25-05-2020||India||Nearly half of Madhya Pradesh’s Covid-19 cases in Indore, toll at 116||Madhya Pradesh’s Covid-19 hotspot Indore saw another 56 cases of the coronavirus disease on Sunday, taking the overall tally in the district to 3,064.As many as 116 people have died of the disease in Indore.According to the Union health ministry, the total number of cases in Madhya Pradesh is 6,371. While 3,267 people have been cured, 281 deaths have been reported so far. Bhopal now has 1,241 Covid-19 patients, Ujjain 553, Khandwa 222, Burhanpur 271, Jabalpur 209, Khargone 117, Dhar 111, Gwalior 98, Neemuch 88 Mandsaur 87, Dewas 80, Morena 71 and Sagar 68.With three deaths in Bhopal, the toll in the state capital has risen to 45, the state Health bulletin said.Eid-ul-Fitr is muted in Madhya Pradesh this year as traditional public prayers and the celebratory hugs have been banned due to the coronavirus pandemic and the national lockdown.Shahar Qazi, Bhopal, Mushtaq Ali Nadvi has appealed to Muslims to offer the Eid namaaz at their homes.“I have also urged people to avoid shaking hands and to also avoid the traditional embrace for the safety of themselves and others,” Nadvi said.Shopping for the biggest festival of Muslims has remained restricted in capital Bhopal as its Old City area falls under red zone and very few shops have been allowed to open.Police personnel have been deployed in various parts of Madhya Pradesh, a senior police officer said, adding that Muslim leaders have appealed to people to stay indoors on Monday.Indore collector Manish Singh said that no relaxations were given to people for celebrating Eid by coming out in the open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-half-of-madhya-pradesh-s-covid-19-cases-in-indore-toll-at-116/story-dNkAQbY1GdQ2lfH83faegJ.html
25-05-2020||India||Eid Mubarak: Wishes from PM Modi to President Kovind on festival of brotherhood and harmony||President Ram Nath Kovid and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were among several leaders who extended their greeting on Eid-ul-Fitr as the festival is being celebrated across the country on Monday amid the lockdown to clamp the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“Eid Mubarak! Greetings on Eid-ul-Fitr. May this special occasion further the spirit of compassion, brotherhood and harmony. May everyone be healthy and prosperous,” PM Modi tweeted.The Prime Minister had last month thanked the leaders of the community for spreading awareness as the fasting month of Ramzan began, urging people to pray that “the world is freed of coronavirus before Eid”.“When Ramzan was observed the last time, we never thought that there would be so many difficulties this time. Now that we are deep in crisis, we have an opportunity to observe the holy month with patience, sensitivity and selflessness. This time, we have to pray more than the last time so that the world is freed of coronavirus before Eid... so that we can celebrate with fervour just like before,” he said during his monthly Mann Ki Baat radio address.President Kovind tweeted in English, Hindi and Urdu to extend his wishes to people celebrating the festival.“Eid Mubarak! This festival is an expression of love, fraternity, peace & harmony. Eid reaffirms our belief in sharing with & caring for the vulnerable & needy. Let us carry the spirit of giving (Zakaat) on this Eid and follow social distancing norms to contain coronavirus spread,” President Kovind posted on Twitter.Vice president M Venkaiah Naidu also posted his Eid message in three languages on Twitter and called for social distancing and celebrations at home.“I hope that all of us will celebrate the festival by keeping alive the spirit of joy, compassion and mutual respect that underlies the pious occasion. May the noble ideals associated with #EidUlFitr usher in health, peace, prosperity and harmony in our lives. #HappyEid,” Naidu tweeted.“The festival fortifies the spirit of compassion, charity and generosity in our society. As we are facing unprecedented challenge in the wake of coronavirus pandemic, I appeal to everyone to celebrate #Eid at home and follow safe distancing. #EidMubarak,” he said.ईद-उल-फित्र के पावन अवसर पर सभी देशवासियों को दिली मुबारकबाद!यह पर्व हमारे समाज मेंदान, दया, करुणा और त्याग जैसे मानवीय मूल्यों का उत्सव है। #EidMubarak pic.twitter.com/9w3xtekr8VUnion Minister of Minority Affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi offered prayers at his home and wished people on the occasion of Eid.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s tweeted also wished people on Eid.“आप सभी को ईद मुबारक! Eid Mubarak to each and every one of you. #HappyEid,” he tweeted.Prominent Muslim clerics in Delhi and across the country have appealed to people to celebrate Eid-ul-Fitr on Monday adhering to social distancing and lockdown norms.Jama Masjid Shahi Imam Syed Ahmed Bukhari appealed people to celebrate Eid with simplicity and help poor people and their neighbours during the pandemic crisis.The shahi imam of Fatehpuri Masjid, Mufti Mukarram Ahmed, said the moon was sighted and Eid will be celebrated on Monday, marking the end of the holy month of Ramzan.Eid-ul-Fitr was celebrated in Jammu and Kashmir and Kerala on Sunday after Muslim clerics made an official announcement about the moon sighting in the regions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eid-mubarak-wishes-from-pm-modi-to-president-kovind-on-festival-of-brotherhood-and-harmony/story-O7GSX5v9S8wFX3i7v9xgKJ.html
25-05-2020||India||From 14-day quarantine to 7 days home isolation: Guidelines for domestic air travellers from today||Air travel is set to resume from Monday across the country and many of the states have opted to set their own rules instead of following the Centre’s guidelines for departing and disembarking passengers.States have announced varied quarantine and self-isolation rules for arriving passengers. Several states said passengers will be taken to a facility only if they show symptoms of fever or cough—in line with Union government guidelines released on Sunday—while several have decided to additionally mandate or suggest self-isolation for either 14 or 28 days, even if a traveller is asymptomatic.Also read| Domestic flight services resume: All you need to knowHere’s what the states have to say:Maharashtra The Mumbai airport will deal with only 50 domestic flights per day from Monday. Even those without symptoms likely to get home quarantine stamp. And, those coming to the city for a short duration are likely to be exempt. Also Watch | Covid-19: India now 10th biggest hotspot, varied quarantine rules as flights resumeTamil NaduThe state government had earlier written to the Centre asking for domestic air travel to be deferred to the lockdown’s end on May 31. It has allowed 25 flights and released a standard operating procedure (SOP) on quarantine. Asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic travellers will undergo 14-day quarantine at either home or hotel. Moderately and severely-affected people will be hospitalised. All passengers will be stamped with a quarantine seal with indelible ink and cannot leave the airport without it.DelhiPassengers who land in the national capital’s at the Indira Gandhi International airport and are asymptomatic will not require quarantine or isolation. Asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to go with the advice that they shall self-monitor their health for 14 days. In case they develop any symptoms, they shall inform the district surveillance officer or the state/national call centre on 1075. Those found symptomatic will be isolated and taken to the nearest health facility. They will be assessed for clinical severity in the health facility. Those having moderate or severe symptoms will be admitted to dedicated Covid-19 health facilities and managed accordingly. Those with mild symptoms will be given the option of home isolation or isolated in a Covid-19 care centre.Karnataka It has said that passengers travelling from high incidence zones, such as Delhi, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, will have to stay under institutional or state-run quarantine for seven days and home quarantine for another week. Those flying in from states not considered high incidence zones will be home quarantined for 14 days. Medical professionals, members of the defence services, paramilitary and railway services will also be home quarantined for 14 days.However, businesspersons travelling with a Covid-19 negative test certificate from an Indian Council of Medical Research-approved lab two days before the date of travel will not be quarantined.Punjab The state government has also announced a 14-day home quarantine for those entering the state via flight, train or bus. Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh said on Saturday that rapid testing teams would check on all who have been home quarantined within a period of 14 days to ensure no “violation” and “strict compliance of rules”.Those found symptomatic will be kept in isolation and Covid-19 test will be conducted on them.Goa On arrival passengers will be given an option of getting themselves Rs 2,000 or they may opt for a mandatory 14-day home quarantine if they do not have symptoms. If someone has the symptoms, they will be tested.Chandigarh The Union territory administration will also keep contact details of all passengers, as well as getting them to sign an undertaking.KeralaEntry passes will be a must for all domestic passengers, which can be obtained from a website. Those without the pass will have to undergo a 14-day institutional quarantine. The quarantine will not be necessary for travellers on business and others who will be in the state for a brief time. Chhattisgarh Even those without symptom will have to quarantine themselves for 14 days. However, passengers can choose between home or hotel quarantine. BiharNo provision of quarantining passengers who do not have the symptoms of the coronavirus disease.AssamAll incoming passengers will have to undergo a screening and be under 14 days of quarantine in home and institutional facility. Those who test negative will be allowed to go home earlier but will have to be in isolation till the completion of 14 days.Mizoram Only permanent residents of the state and government employees stranded in other parts will be allowed to return. Mizoram will require incoming passengers to undergo 14 days of institutional quarantine. MeghalayaPassengers will be picked up from the Guwahati airport and brought to Shillong or Tura. They will be kept in an institutional quarantine for at least 48 hours and their tests will be conducted. Those found negative will be allowed to go home.Tripura and ManipurTripura will conduct pool testing and Manipur will test symptomatic people and ask them to undergo home quarantine for 14 days.Jammu and KashmirAll passengers arriving in the Union territory will have to undergo institutional quarantine for a fortnight.Uttar Pradesh The state will send those who intend to stay in the state to 14 days home quarantine. They will be tested after six days and can end isolation if it returns negative. Those without a separate room and toilet for isolation can opt for institutional quarantine. Those in the state for a week need to provide details and a return ticket before leaving the airport. All passengers must register on https://reg.upcovidin.RajasthanAll passengers arriving at the Jaipur airport will have to undergo 14 days of home quarantine. Those coming for business and those with a negative report will be allowed to move around after seven days.Madhya PradeshPassengers will have to go to a government facility for testing, if they have symptoms. Only passengers testing negative will be kept in institutional quarantine for 10 days.Telangana and Andhra PradeshTelangana won’t stop asymptotic passengers. All symptomatic passengers arriving in Andhra Pradesh will have to undergo quarantine when services resume from Tuesday. Asymptotic passengers will have to be in home isolation for 14 days. OdishaTwelve flights will begin operating from the Bhubaneswar airport from Monday and three from Jharsuguda. If someone is coming for three days or 72 hours, no mandatory quarantine is needed. If someone is going out three days or 72 hours, no quarantine is required after coming back. For others, 14-day home or institutional quarantine is necessary.UttarakhandThe state has said a decision will be taken depending on the passenger’s health examination and travel history. Himachal Pradesh It will allow only residents of the state to fly in and they will have to undergo thermal screening and will be quarantined for 28 days—seven days at an institutional facility and 21 days at home. Non-resident passengers will not be allowed entry and will be sent back from institutional quarantine to their state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-14-day-quarantine-to-7-days-home-isolation-guidelines-for-domestic-air-travellers-from-today/story-Y4YND1LR3CTZBUL7ykLf0K.html
25-05-2020||India||Bengal Guv tells Mamata not to inflate figures on losses due to cyclone Amphan||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday said that the army could have been called in for the restoration works three days ago had the chief minister maintained contacts with him. He also advised to chief minister Mamata Banerjee not to an exaggerated report to the Centre on the losses due to cyclone Amphan.His tweets coming at a time large swathes of south Bengal was yet to limp back to normalcy has triggered a controversy.“Urge @MamataOfficial: Be in touch with Guv – had this been done army could have been called 3 days back,” Dhankhar wrote on Twitter in English and Bengali. I have directed all authorities to attend to RAJ BHAWAN in last ONLY AFTER NORMALCY IS RESTORED IN CITYURGE @MamataOfficial :BE IN TOUCH WITH GUV-HAD THIS BEEN DONE ARMY WOULD HAVE BEEN CALLED 3 DAYS BACKSHARE REAL LOSS @PMOIndia :INFLATING FIGURES IS COUNTER PRODUCTIVE(2/2)The state government called in the army on Saturday to clear the roads of the fallen trees. In another advice to the chief minister, the governor wrote, “Share real loss @PMOIndia: Inflating figures is counter-productive.”His tweets came after CM Banerjee said that the estimated loss due to the cyclone was Rs 1 lakh crore. She has said that 1 crore people have been rendered homeless due to the cyclone. Prime Minsiter Narendra Modi has initially approved Rs 1,000 crore assistance to the state government for the immediate requirement in the restoration work.On Sunday, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders supported Dhankhar’s statement. “The governor has voiced the concerns of the whole state of Bengal. People are apprehensive of corruption by the state administration because of the examples they had set on earlier occasions. The CM is only talking about money. Why is she seeking money only? The Centree needs to investigate every claim of the state government,” BJP national secretary Rahul Sinha said. After the aerial survey, PM Modi had said that he had spoken to Mamata Banerjee and Dhankhar and had decided that a detailed survey needed to be done to review the extent of the damage.The CM on Saturday had urged district officials to prepare reports of damage and losses very carefully so that the Central teams that are likely to visit the state to investigate the extent of the losses could be properly briefed.On Sunday, Derek O’Brien, the national spokesperson of the state’s ruling party Trinamool Congress, said that 6 crore people have been directly affected by the cyclone. Bengal’s population stood slightly above 9 crore in 2011 and is estimated to be around 10 crore at present.“It’s extremely unfortunate if the governor stoops too low, especially at the hour of such a crisis. I am especially shocked with his reaction because he himself accompanied PM Modi and the chief minister during the aerial survey of the affected areas. If he still thinks that the losses were not mammoth, we simply have nothing else to say,” said TMC spokesperson Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, a Lok Sabha member. On social media, many netizens took digs at the governor for “doing politics in the time of a crisis”....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-guv-tells-mamata-not-to-inflate-figures-on-losses-due-to-cyclone-amphan/story-AapqxUNOwgJ4fw8a46n9gM.html
25-05-2020||India||Domestic flight services resume: All you need to know||Indian skies opened up for domestic passenger services on Monday after a gap of two months. Hundreds of people reached the Indira Gandhi International Airport in New Delhi to take early morning flights to their hometowns and workplaces.All scheduled commercial passenger flights were suspended on March 25 when the government imposed a nationwide lockdown to curb the coronavirus pandemic.As the passengers reached airports in various cities, they had to undergo thermal scanning and saw some new norms in place before boarding a flight.Here’s how flying has changed in these two months:• All passengers to undergo thermal screening; only asymptomatic people can board the flights.• Passengers have been advised to download the Aarogya Setu mobile application.• It is mandatory to wear a face mask throughout the travel.• People with symptoms to be taken to health facility. Decision on home or institutional quarantine will depend on severity of symptoms and test results.• All passengers have been advised to monitor their health for 14 days after travel, inform authorities if they develop symptoms.Apart from this, the state governments have been allowed to set their own rules for flyers. Discussions were held between the Centre and the state governments after which the number of flights which will go to or take off from various states was also decided. So, here’s a look at the rules set by states and how many flights are allowed from where:Mumbai50 flights per day have been allowed from one of the worst-affected cities due to the coronavirus. The passengers coming to Mumbai will get home quarantine stamps even if they don’t have symptoms; those on short visit are exempt.Hyderabad30 flights a day have been allowed in Hyderabad. Passengers with Covid-19 symptoms have been asked to self-isolate. Those who don’t show any symptoms, can go through.KolkataThe West Bengal government held discussion with the Centre on Sunday, and it was decided that the flight services will resume from Kolkata from May 28. Apart from this, among the protocols decided by the state government include testin of all symptomatic people for Covid-19. The passengers have also been asked to submit self-declaration forms on arrival when flight services resume.ChennaiThe Tamil Nadu government has come on board with the central government’s plan to resume domescit flight services. The passengers have been asked to declare if they had Covid-19 in last two months. A 14-day quarantine is mandatory fo all the travellers.BengaluruPassengers from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh have been asked to undergo seven-day institutional quarantine followed by seven days of home quarantine. Those coming from other states will have to self-isolate at home for 14 days.DelhiThe Delhi government has said that it will adhere to guidelines set by the Union health ministry. This means that passengers who don’t show symptoms of the coronavirus disease will be permitted to go through after reaching their destination with the advice that they monitor their health for the next 14 days.The resumption of flight has not come without change in airport protocols. Here’s a look at revised standard operating procedure at Delhi airport:Outside the terminal• Outside the terminal, passengers can check-in through kiosk• After web check-in, the passenger heads towards the airline-allowed entry gate. A guard will check the flyer’s temperature and status on Aarogya Setu app. If they don’t have the app, the flyers will have to fill out a self-declaration form.Entering the airport• A security person behind a glass curtain will check the boarding passes and identity cards.• The passenger then heads to the terminal and goes through a thermal scanner.• Carpets are soaked in sanitising chemicals to ensure shoes are disinfected.• Hand sanitisers will be placed at gates for use by flyers.Baggage scanning• Before entering the terminal, passengers will put their luggage in a sanitising machine where the bags will be treated with ultraviolet radiation to sanitise them.Check-in• The passenger heads to check-in counters where they can opt for self baggage check-in.• Baggage tags will no longer be issued, and passengers will get an SMS to confirm luggage check-in.Security check• The passengers moves to the security hold area with the one allowed ‘hand-bag’. Here, contactless screening will be conducted using metal detectors and security personnel will scan the boarding pass before allowing passenger to the boarding area.At waiting area• Shops in non-aero areas will adhere to stringent safety, health and hygiene rules. All F&B retail shops will be open and orders can be placed on apps or kiosks.• Passengers will sit at alternate seats, with more seating space added.• Drinking-water fountains will be foot-pedal operated and washrooms will be deep-cleaned regularly.• On buses for boarding, only alternate seats to be used.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-flight-services-resume-all-you-need-to-know/story-Fv3khKSFmsObHcLEZLUF3I.html
25-05-2020||India||Domestic flight ops to remain halted in Tripura, says Agartala airport||Domestic air operations will not resume in Tripura from Monday as all flights operating to and from Agartala stand cancelled, according to Maharaja Bir Bikram (MBB) Airport’s officials.Services were halted as all the flights are connected to Kolkata and the Kolkata airport is not available till May 27, in view of cyclone Amphan.Union minister for civil aviation, Hardeep Singh Puri, on Sunday announced that domestic flights will recommence across the country from May 25.Director, Biju Patnaik International Airport, VV Rao, in Odisha’s Bhubaneswar said that at least two flights may be cancelled due to some issues at Kolkata, Mumbai and other places.“We have done inspection and trial run with all stakeholders today evening and went off successfully. All stakeholders trying their level best to ensure touch-free and safe passage of air travel for passengers,” he said.All scheduled commercial passenger flights were suspended in India since March 25 when the Narendra Modi government imposed a lockdown to contain the virus.Domestic flight operations resumed across the country from Monday except in Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-flight-ops-to-remain-halted-in-tripura-says-agartala-airport/story-SRQSpuNrnE0usBeFSY7tbI.html
25-05-2020||India||Thermal scanning for passengers, PPE kits for airline staff as domestic air services resume||Domestic air travel resumed in the country on Monday, after a gap of two months and the first flyers experienced the revised protocol of entering the airport at Delhi.Those who took first flights included paramilitary personnel, army men, students and migrants, who failed to book a ticket on special trains being run by the railways, reported news agency PTI.Aamir Afzal, a mechanical engineer from Patna, who had come to Delhi on an official visit on March 23, was among those who took the flights to celebrate Eid with family and friends.“I had been staying in a hotel in Mahipalpur with my co-worker. The hotel charged us Rs 900 per day. We could not get a confirmed ticket on a train back home,” he told PTI.Many said they shelled out more to reach the airport as there were limited public transport options available.The air travel was stopped and all flights grounded since March 25 due to the coronavirus pandemic.The flights to Mumbai and Patna were among the first to take off on Monday morning. Both the flights are operated by private carrier IndiGo.The airline staff members, who reached the Delhi airport early on Monday, said they are worried but work comes first. “We are a little worried but work comes first. We will get PPE kits from the airline,” said Amandeep Kaur, a flight attendant.Passengers were screened using a thermometre gun at Delhi airport before boarding Vistara flight to Bhubaneswar (Odisha). The food & beverage (F&B) and retail outlets, which were closed for the past 63 days, opened at Terminal 3 of Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport.The flight services resumed after a day of long and hard negotiations between the Centre and the states on Sunday. All states finally agreed to accept at least some flights but announced varied quarantine and self-isolation rules for arriving passengers to address misgivings about infections being brought in from other cities.Instead of following the national guidelines issued by the Union government for all departing and disembarking passengers, many of the states chose to set their own rules: Karnataka, for instance, requires mandatory institutional quarantine for passengers from worst-affected states, while Punjab and Meghalaya have made a swab test mandatory for arrivals.Some other states, such as Mizoram and Himachal Pradesh, said that only state residents will be allowed to enter the city from the airports.Three states - Maharashtra, West bengal and Tamil Nadu - urged the Centre to reconsider the decision to allow domestic flight operations to resume as it could lead to a spike in infections. On Sunday, the ministry held several discussions with these states and airline representatives.On Sunday evening, the ministry announced that some 50 flights will operate from Mumbai.Flights to and from West Bengal will resume on May 28. After initially seeking time till May 31, Tamil Nadu came on board with the Union government’s plan early on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thermal-scanning-for-passengers-ppe-kits-for-airline-staff-as-domestic-air-services-resume/story-jwKpX1YlLix4RazswCWSsI.html
25-05-2020||India||Worried but work comes first: Flight attendants as domestic air travel resumes||Flight attendants on early Monday morning arrived at Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport, Terminal-3, as domestic flight operations resumed from today.“We are a little worried but work comes first. We will get Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits from the airline,” Amandeep Kaur, a flight attendant, told ANI.Another flight attendant said that they have to do less interaction with passengers now in the wake of the coronavirus crisis.Food and beverage and retail outlets opened at the airport as domestic flight services resumed.Domestic flight operations resumed across the country from today except in Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal after two months of suspension due to coronavirus-induced lockdown.All scheduled commercial passenger flights were suspended in India since March 25 when the Centre imposed a lockdown to contain the virus.Also read: Students, migrants take first flight home as services resume after 2 monthsFollowing the announcement of domestic flights resumption, the Airports Authority of India on Thursday issued (SOP) for airports as part of preparations for the recommencement of domestic commercial flight operations.According to the SOPs, airports have been advised to ensure that passenger seating arrangement shall be done in such a manner so as to maintain social distancing among passengers using chairs by blocking those seats that are not to be used, with proper markers/tapes.All passengers also must compulsorily be registered with the Aarogya Setu app on their phones as per the directives.Apart from this, alternate check-in counters should be used to avoid congestion. The airport staff must be provided PPE kits, face masks etc, and should also be provided with hand sanitisers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/little-worried-but-work-comes-first-flight-attendants-as-air-domestic-travel-resumes/story-yvvs4mjE8Tmlam7jB1wGyH.html
25-05-2020||India||Delhi’s first flight to Pune, Mumbai’s to Patna as domestic air travel resumes||Indian skies will open up for domestic passenger services from Monday after a gap of two months, with Delhi-Pune and Mumbai-Patna flights being among the first to take off, aviation industry sources said. All scheduled commercial passenger flights have been suspended since March 25 when the government imposed a nationwide lockdown to curb the coronavirus pandemic. Both the flights will be operated by IndiGo on Monday morning. While the Delhi-Pune flight is scheduled to depart at 4.45 AM, the Mumbai-Patna flight would depart at 6.45 AM. Aviation industry sources said the first passenger flight would be 6E643 from Delhi airport and it is likely to be operated by aircraft VT-ITK, which is an A320neo plane of IndiGo. The sources added the first domestic passenger flight to arrive at Delhi airport on Monday would be from Ahmedabad and it is of SpiceJet. “The flight SG8194, which would be conducted by B737 model numbered VT-SGQ, would be landing at 7.45 AM at Delhi airport,” one of the sources said. The Mumbai airport’s operator MIAL said in a statement, “The first flight departing out of CSMIA (Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport ) will be to Patna at 6:45hrs and flight arriving from Lucknow will be the first arrival flight at 8:20hrs both operated by IndiGo.” It was announced last Thursday that one-third of pre-lockdown domestic flights will operate from Monday. All international scheduled commercial passenger flights remain suspended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-first-flight-to-pune-mumbai-s-to-patna-as-domestic-air-travel-resumes/story-yp065GEbUTfuTKVFm6RNhI.html
25-05-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Students, migrants take first flight home as services resume after 2 months||As India resumed domestic passenger flights in a graded manner on Monday, hundreds of people reached the Indira Gandhi International Airport here to take early morning flights to their hometowns and workplaces. Flight operations remained shut for two months owing to the nationwide lockdown necessitated by the coronavirus pandemic.Those who took first flights included paramilitary personnel, army men, students and migrants, who failed to book a ticket on special trains being run by the railways. Many said they shelled out more to reach the airport as there were limited public transport options available.With trains running full and inter-state buses remaining off the roads, Sandeep Singh, 19, spent Rs 5,500 to reach Delhi from Dehradun where he studies. “I remained stuck in my PG. Mummy and papa were a worried lot. I am taking the first flight home,” he said. Aamir Afzal, a mechanical engineer from Patna, who had come to Delhi on an official visit on March 23, was among those who took the flights to celebrate Eid with family and friends. “I had been staying in a hotel in Mahipalpur with my co-worker. The hotel charged us Rs 900 per day. We could not get a confirmed ticket on a train back home,” he said.Due to the lesser number of trains, the tickets get sold out within 5-10 minutes. It is difficult for a person to book a ticket using a mobile phone, Afzal said. Afzal’s friend Rahid Ali said he was happy he would be able to join his family in Bihar’s Begusarai district on Eid. “But it will be a muted affair as so many homeless and hungry migrants who cannot afford to travel on train or flight are still stuck in various parts of the country. It doesn’t suit one to celebrate the festival in such circumstances,” he said. A few people travelled long distances only to find that their flights had been cancelled. Naik Satish Kumar’s Kolkata-bound flight got cancelled as the state decided not to resume operations till May 28. “I travelled all the way from Ambala on a bus to take a 6-am flight to Kolkata. When I reached here, I got to know the flight had been cancelled. I am returning home now,” he said. Excited to meet his two-year-old daughter, Santu Mandal, a resident of West Bengal’s Bardhaman district, reached the airport along with brother, Nasiruddin Mandal, at 1 am, unaware that the flight to Kolkata had been cancelled. The Mandal brothers, engaged in hand embroidery, spent Rs 12,000 to book the tickets “because we could not get a confirmed train ticket”. It is the first time Sudhir Kumar will be on a plane. The Army personnel posted in Punjab’s Bhatinda district says he never considered taking a flight home earlier as train travel is convenient and cheap. But trains are full already, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/students-migrants-take-the-first-flight-home-after-being-grounded-for-weeks-due-to-lockdown/story-i3FzUInhgLiJrYuXrg6JXK.html
25-05-2020||India||Central minister threatens to thrash Chhattisgarh officials with belt||Renuka Singh, Union minister of state for tribal affairs was seen in a video threatening district administration officials in Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh for allegedly beating a man up in a quarantine centre and being discriminatory towards BJP workers.The minister was enraged after Dilip Gupta, a resident of Balarampur district had accused the chief executive officer and tehsildar of the district panchayat of assaulting him in a quarantine centre in the area after he complained of poor arrangements.“Bhagvadhari BJP karyakartaon ko kamzor na samjhna aap... Jo bhed-bhaav kar rahe ho na BJP karyakartaaon ke saath .. Bhool Jaaiye .. Andheri Kothari mein le jaake mein ..belt kolke thokna jaanti hun bhut acche se... (Don’t think that BJP workers are weak .. Forget about the discrimination which you are doing with them.. I very well know how to lock people in a room and thrash them with a belt),” the minister is seen telling officials.“You have just beaten him because he knows his rights...You people are working are working arbitrarily which will not work,” she said.“If I was only a MP, I would have lived entire time in my constituency but I am a union minister too, so I have to go to Delhi. This does not mean that my workers and people have become venerable,” she said.HT cannot vouch for the veracity of the video.The minister did not respond to repeated call and messages from Hindustan Times. She later told news agency ANI Sunday evening that Dilip Gupta, who had come to Balrampur, was put in a quarantine centre and badly beaten for highlighting poor arrangements at the facility.“When Gupta witnessed poor arrangement in the quarantine centre , he made a video to raise the issue . When the administration came to know about the video, two officials – a tehsildar and CEO Janpad Panchayat reached in the centre..They threatened and beaten him with belt. After this they shifted him to some other place and the family started searching for Gupta. The parents informed me and when I reached in the centre, I found that the Gupta was badly beaten… The CEO Janpad Panchayat accepted that he made a mistake,” the minister said.Balrampur’s Collector, Sanjiv Kumar Jha said an inquiry has been ordered.“We have ordered an probe in this matter whether Gupta, who reached Balrampur from Delhi on May 15 was beaten up by the officers or not . We will take action accordingly,” said Jha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-minister-threatens-to-thrash-chhattisgarh-officials-with-belt/story-yaZrau5t8F10T7zWjYM0JN.html
25-05-2020||India||Centre issues fresh guidelines for Indian citizens stranded abroad||The government on Sunday issued a fresh Standard Operating Protocol (SOP) for the return of Indians stranded abroad due to the coronavirus lockdown, saying it will be a paid service and preference will be given to people in distress including those who have lost their jobs and pregnant women.A similar SOP was also issued by the government for those who are stranded in India and desire to travel abroad.As per the latest SOP, all travellers will have to give an undertaking that they would undergo mandatory quarantine for 14 days. It will be a seven-day paid institutional quarantine at their own cost, followed by seven days of isolation at home with self-monitoring of health.Only for exceptional and compelling reasons such as cases of human distress, pregnancy, death in family, serious illness and parent(s) accompanied by children below 10 years, as assessed by the receiving states, home quarantine may be permitted for 14 days and use of ‘Aarogya Setu’ app shall be mandatory in such cases, it said.According to the SOP issued earlier by the MHA on May 5, the institutional quarantine period was 14 days and another 14 days was for home quarantine while ‘Aarogya Setu’ app was mandatory for all international arrivals.The fresh SOP said that the states and UTs can also develop their own protocol. Priority will be given to compelling cases in distress, including migrant workers, labourers who have been laid off, short-term visa-holders facing expiry of visas, persons with medical emergency, pregnant women, elderly, those required to return to India due to death of family member, and students, the SOP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-issues-fresh-guidelines-for-indian-citizens-stranded-abroad/story-GLYjproML5ehvcguSuUxkK.html
25-05-2020||India||Delhi prepares for a quiet Eid without congregations||In May 1987, when a curfew was imposed in Delhi after tension flared in some neighbourhoods following communal rioting in Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut, Eid prayers were not offered at the iconic Jama Masjid. Thirty-three years later, Delhi’s largest mosque will again remain shut to devotees when Eid is celebrated on Monday. Syed Ahmed Bukhari, the Shahi Imam of Jama Masjid, cited the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic as the reason for the mosque remaining shut. Similarly, all other mosques in the city will remain shut to devotees on Eid as a lockdown continues to be enforced to contain the spread of the virus.Eid-ul-Fitr is celebrated to mark the end of the holy month of Ramzan during which Muslims observe a fast from dawn to dusk. On the day of Eid, dressed in new clothes, devotees offer prayers at mosques and then hug and greet relatives and friends. After the prayers, people visit each others’ homes with sheer khurma (a traditional dessert) as a customary ritual of the festival. This year, the community will observe the festival at homes with no public prayers, hugs, and dawats (get-togethers).“It’s going to be hard for people to celebrate Eid like this but we need to do this to protect each other from the coronavirus infection. People have an immense attachment to the Jama Masjid. But this time everyone has to pray at home. We have already announced that no one will be allowed inside the mosque on Monday. Only the mosque staff living inside will offer the prayer on the premises,” Bukhari said.Mufti Mukarram Ahmed, the Shahi Imam of Masjid Fatehpuri, recalled the last time Eid prayers were not held in the mosque. “In 1993, when the curfew was imposed post-Babri Masjid demolition, we did not hold Eid prayers in the Fatehpuri mosque and encouraged people to offer prayers in their local mosques (Babri Masjid was demolished in December 1992). But this year it’s unprecedented. The mosque is closed since March due to the pandemic. We are requesting people to not only pray at their home but also avoid roaming on the streets and gatherings,” he said.Haji Miyan Faiyazuddin, 82, of the iconic Haji Hotel in the Jama Masjid area, said that he has never experienced an Eid without Namaz being offered in mosques, hugs being exchanged, and celebrations on the streets.“I had gone for my first Eid namaz in Jama Masjid when I was six. Even during instances of communal tension, namaz was not prohibited in the local mosques as it has been now. After the namaz, we would visit each other’s house. Children would buy toys and sweets on the way home. We would also share sweets and other delicacies with our Hindu brothers and they also visit our homes. But, this time, it will be a silent Eid,” he said.Faiyazuddin, whose family claims a lineage of five centuries, said people should follow all the norms specified for the prevention of Covid-19. “We can celebrate Eid again next year but we cannot afford to put everyone’s life in danger. Also, people should help those who have lost their livelihood and loved ones due to this pandemic,” he said.Shopkeepers selling clothes, shoes and jewellery, and tailors, who would otherwise remain busy throughout Ramzan, said this would be a “black Eid”. Farookh Ahmed, who runs a readymade garment showroom in the Shaheen Bagh neighbourhood, said, “We have opened our shops two days back after a gap of five months. The market was first shut due to the anti-CAA protest and then the Covid-19 lockdown. We did not even get a window of a week to sell some clothes before Eid. People are also not shopping like before this year. For us, it’s black Eid,” he said.The reference was to the long-running protest staged in Shaheen Bagh against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA).On Saturday, very few people were spotted in the markets for Eid Shopping in the walled city, Batla House, Shaheen Bagh, and other Muslim-dominated areas. The hashtags of #EidatHome and #EidiforMigrants were also trending on Twitter, requesting people to stay at home and help those in need. “Refrain from buying new clothes and rather use the money for the marginal sections of the society,” said Ashhar Uddin, in a tweet.Rana Safvi, an author, said that she will have a low-key celebration at home. “I won’t be able to meet my daughter as she lives in Delhi while I am in Noida. We will do a video call and greet each other,” she said.“This time, we should celebrate an Eid of compassion. We should give more to those in need. I will also do that,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-prepares-for-a-quiet-eid-without-congregations/story-7SrRXRNUFBsy0w9nZ6E7QK.html
25-05-2020||India||India now among 10 worst countries in Covid-19 cases||With the highest one-day national surge of 6,634 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, India on Sunday overtook Iran to become the 10th biggest hot spot of the pathogen, which has rapidly swept the globe, claiming new epicentres across continents and leaving health care systems overwhelmed in its wake.The number of Covid-19 cases in the country stood at 138,474 on Sunday, nearly doubling over the course of 13 days, even as graded relaxations in the fourth phase of the national lockdown were likely to push up the contagion over the coming days.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayNew Covid-19 cases dropped to zero for the first time on Saturday in China, the country where the pandemic originated, but surged in India and ravaged South America. Experts say that in countries with weak health care systems and impoverished populations, fighting the virus has proven to be difficult. Latin America has become the latest epicentre of the highly contagious disease. Brazil and Mexico reported record numbers of infections and deaths almost daily this week, fuelling criticism of their governments for limited lockdowns. But infections also rose and intensive-care units were swamped in Peru, Chile and Ecuador, all countries praised for imposing early and aggressive shutdowns. India’s trajectory of Covid-19 cases appears to be tracking that of Brazil, according to analysis of latest data. India’s case count on Sunday was where Brazil’s infections stood about 15 days ago. Also read: Centre identifies 4 model cities for Covid-19 handlingThe latest 10,000 infections were recorded in two days. India recorded its first 10,000 Covid-19 cases in nearly 43 days, with a wave of infections beginning in March after three isolated cases were first reported in Kerala in January. It took seven days for the cases to climb from 20,000 to 30,000.The disease’s doubling rate, which is defined as the average period it takes for a twofold rise, decreased from 13.9 days on May 18 – the day the cases hit 100,000 – to 13.1 on Sunday. The doubling rate – which is calculated over a period of last seven days – was four days at the beginning of April. Several experts say the peak of the outbreak in India is yet to come.Across the world, many governments are easing restrictions as they face political challenges and poor economic indicators brought on by the pandemic. In just a few months, the pandemic has killed at least 345,000 people worldwide and infected more than 5.4 million.Also read| Covid-19 lockdown: Some states look beyond colour-codingTurkey, which stands at the ninth spot in the global tally just above India, imposed its toughest lockdown measures yet starting Saturday for the Eid holiday. In Germany, which has drawn praise for its handling of the outbreak, seven people appeared to have been infected at a restaurant. It would be the first known such case since restaurants started reopening two weeks ago. France, which has the seventh highest number of infections, has allowed religious services to resume after a legal challenge to the government’s ban on gatherings in places of worship.The US has been the hardest-hit country, with about 100,000 Covid-19 deaths so far among 1.6 million confirmed cases, followed by Russia and Brazil.Concerns, however, are rising in India, where new cases showed another record jump on Sunday, going past 6,000 for the third straight day as the two-month lockdown eased. States with relatively few cases have seen spikes in recent days as residents, including migrant workers travelling in special trains, have returned home.On average, India has reported 6,102 cases over the last five days. The corresponding number for the previous five days was 4,753. The data, which is based on official figures from states, shows that about a third of the total cases have been reported over the past week.On Sunday, the number of infections in Delhi rose to 13,418 after 508 new cases were reported.Maharashtra, the worst-affected state in the country, surpassed 50,000 cases. It reported 3,041 new infections during the day and its overall tally was 50,231. Of these, 30,542 cases – more than a fourth of the national tally – have been reported in Mumbai alone. The surge of cases also continued in Tamil Nadu as the state recorded 765 cases. The state has so far reported 16,277 cases. As India relaxes curbs that were put in place on March 25, experts say the coming weeks will be crucial. Dr SK Sarin, director of the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences and who also heads the five-member committee formed to assist the Delhi chief minister to tackle the pandemic, told HT recently that the lockdown has only delayed the peak, “which is likely to come maybe in July or mid-August”.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-now-among-10-worst-countries-in-covid-19-cases/story-887sPJfXLEzVIUPZd6VKcK.html
25-05-2020||India||Domestic flights resume today after ‘long day of hard negotiations’||Air travel across the country was set to resume on Monday, with all states finally agreeing to accept at least some flights but announcing varied quarantine and self-isolation rules for arriving passengers to address misgivings about infections being brought in from other cities.Instead of following the national guidelines issued by the Union government for all departing and disembarking passengers, many of the states chose to set their own rules: Karnataka, for instance, requires mandatory institutional quarantine for passengers from worst-affected states, while Punjab and Meghalaya have made a swab test mandatory for arrivals. Several states said passengers will be taken to a facility only if they show symptoms of fever or cough — in line with Union government guidelines released on Sunday — while several among them decided to additionally mandate or suggest self-isolation for either 14 or 28 days, even if a traveller is asymptomatic.Some other states, such as Mizoram and Himachal Pradesh, said that only state residents will be allowed to enter the city from the airports.The announcements came a day after three states — Maharashtra, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu — requested the Union government to reconsider the decision to allow domestic flight operations to resume as it could lead to a spike in infections. On Sunday, the ministry held several discussions with these states and airline representatives.“It has been a long day of hard negotiations with various state governments to recommence civil aviation operations in the country. Except Andhra Pradesh which will start on 26/5 and West Bengal on 28/5, domestic flights will recommence across the country from tomorrow,” civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri said in a tweet on Sunday evening..In the morning, he spoke to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray over video to convince the state to allow some flights to resume. Shortly after, Thackeray, in a press conference, said: “I spoke to civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri today and told him that the Mumbai international airport needs more time to resume its operations. Till the time the airport plans and fine-tunes operations, aviation ministry should initiate minimum possible domestic flights from Maharashtra from May 25.”On Sunday evening, the ministry announced that some 50 flights will operate from Mumbai. “It’s extremely ill-advised to reopen airports in red zone. Mere thermal scanning of passengers, inadequate without swabs. Impossible to have autos/cabs/buses ply in current circumstances. Adding positive passenger will add Covid stress to red zone. #MaharashtraGovtCares,” Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said in a tweet before the two administrations came to an agreement. Several discussions also took place between officials of other states, civil aviation ministry and airline representatives. The meetings covered the quarantine rules for flyers as well as standard operating procedures for airports, according to officials aware of the discussions.“Negotiations were held with the state governments and they all came on board, as we also agreed to certain terms and conditions. A state like Maharashtra had genuine concerns as it has the most number of cases. We agreed to run fewer flights — only 25 will operate to Mumbai. West Bengal, too, had concerns due to the damage caused by cyclone Amphan and we agreed to delay flight operations,” said an official, asking not to be named. Also read: No quarantine for asymptomatic passengers landing at IGI airportFlights to and from West Bengal will resume on May 28. After initially seeking time till May 31, Tamil Nadu came on board with the Union government’s plan early on Sunday. The Union health ministry separately released guidelines for travellers on domestic and international flights. In both types of flights, airlines have been advised not to board anyone showing symptoms of Covid-19. All passengers will need to wear masks while on board. The federal guidelines lay down that anyone showing symptoms when they land will need to be taken to a facility for isolation where they will be assessed. Passengers will also be advised to download the Aarogya Setu mobile application.“These guidelines are an extension of our earlier travel advisories with modifications made as per the current Covid-19 situation. Now that travel restrictions are being eased, it will be our aim to ensure disease transmission stays under check. These guidelines can be modified as per what the latest situation demands,” said a senior government official, who asked not to be identified.The government is yet to allow international flights, but the SOPs for when they resume say that all passengers will need to go into a week-long quarantine at a facility for which they will need to pay. According to PTI, Saujanya Shrivastava, chief operating officer - flights, MakeMyTrip and Goibibo, said: “With domestic flights taking off after 61 days of lockdown, there is an understandable apprehension amongst flyers. That said, we expect the situation to smoothen out as flyers gradually get attuned to the new safety protocols.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-finally-clear-air-for-anxious-flyers/story-ruhPX2T3pGvYaIA4iQsXhJ.html
25-05-2020||India||After migrants jump quarantine, Odisha reduces isolation tenure to 14 days||With the pressure of keeping over 2 lakh migrant workers in quarantine centres for 21 days proving difficult in view of frequent protests at such centres and migrants jumping quarantine, the Odisha government on Sunday brought down the total quarantine period from 28 days to 14 days.Special relief commissioner Pradeep Jena said in rural areas the migrant workers will undergo 7 days of mandatory institutional quarantine after which the asymptomatic ones will be discharged for home quarantine for a further period of 7 days. Earlier, all returning migrant workers in rural areas had to compulsorily stay in 21 days of official quarantine followed by 7 days of home quarantine. They were also stamped with indelible ink on their left arm.Jena, however, said government officials, professionals, businessmen or any other person travelling to Odisha on work and leaving within 72 hours would be exempted from mandatory quarantine. Besides, anyone who has already undergone the prescribed quarantine period in any other state would also be exempted from quarantine in Odisha.Additional chief secretary of the health department, PK Mohapatra said the change in quarantine policy came following changes in ICMR guidelines.Officials however admitted that shortening the quarantine period was necessary to free up school buildings and Anganwadi centres that are currently being used as quarantine centres. So far 2.4 lakh migrant workers have been quarantined in Odisha after lockdown was relaxed.A senior official said reducing the quarantine period was necessary as more and more jumping of quarantine norms were being reported across the state with gram panchayats feeling the pressure of keeping the migrant workers in the centres.In several quarantine centres the inmates have gone on strike protesting the quality of food while in other places villagers are uneasy about having quarantine centres next to their homes.In Sundargarh district, four migrant workers escaped from an institutional quarantine at a school in Gurundia block early Sunday morning. The inmates who had returned from Kerala and Maharashtra jumped the school’s boundary wall protesting the quality of food served there.“The returning migrant workers have proved to be a big headache for us. It seems the prime duty of the Sarpanch is now to ensure that the inmates complete their quarantine period,” said a Sarpanch in Ganjam district, the epicentre of Covid-19 in Odisha.The state government’s shortening of the quarantine period came on the day more than 200 migrant workers fled a ‘Shramik Special’ train near Balibagada in Ganjam district after pulling the alarm chain. The ‘Shramik Special’ train carrying Odisha migrants from Namapalli in Telangana was going towards Khordha Road station in Bhubaneswar. After some locals spotted the migrant returnees coming via the railway track towards Balibagada area, they informed the police and the Railway Protection Force.Pradeep Jena said the Centre’s decision to run more Shramik Special trains without any prior information and without the consent of the state government, would make things difficult for Odisha.The Centre earlier used to inform the state government about Shramik Special trains leaving for Odisha as well as the particulars of the migrant workers travelling in it, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-migrants-jump-quarantine-odisha-reduces-isolation-tenure-to-14-days/story-DypTkVAHy9kY2luo3hSVCO.html
25-05-2020||India||Biggest 1-day spike in Bengal with 200 cases||KOLKATAAs West Bengal struggles to restore normality four days after being struck by cyclone Amphan, the state on Sunday recorded its highest daily spike in Covid-19 cases, with more than 200 people detected with the viral infection for the first time on a single day. The spike is a major concern for the state because the areas worst hit by the cyclone are also the ones most affected by Covid-19.The state government said 208 persons tested positive for the coronavirus disease on Sunday, taking Bengal’s tally to 3,667. The state recorded more than 100 cases for the first time on May 6, reporting 112 cases, and has reported another 2,211 cases, with an average of 123 cases per day. The state has so far recorded 272 deaths, including 72 attributed to co-morbidity. Kolkata, North 24-Parganas and Howrah that account for 2,934 of the total cases in the state have also been badly hit by the cyclone. These districts have most of the containment zones in the state.Among Sunday’s new cases, 52 were from Kolkata, 48 from Howrah and 21 from North 24-Parganas. South 24-Parganas, the worst cyclone-hit district, recorded only four new cases but that was due to too few samples being tested as large parts of it remained cut off from the rest of the state even on Sunday, according to a senior official of the state health department.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has said that the state faces a great challenge in containing the spread of the disease, enforcing the lockdown and simultaneously carry out relief and restoration work for the damage caused by the storm.“It’s going to be a humongous battle against nature to contain Covid-19 at this hour. We are getting reports from the districts that people are focussed on post-cyclone restoration. They are not caring about masks and social distancing. Thousands of people have been rendered homeless. They are trying to remove fallen trees and electric poles and repair breached embankments. The faster the restoration takes place, the earlier social distancing norms can be implemented again,” said public health expert Rezaul Karim. Even on Sunday, the state witnessed demonstrations in Kolkata, Howrah and North 24-Parganas, even around areas where several persons tested positive for Covid-19, by people who demanded immediate restoration of power and water supply.“We urge people to have patience and not to hit the streets. We are trying our best to give relief to the people but we should not forget that the storm was of great magnitude and we still are battling Covid-19,” urban development minister Firhad Hakim said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biggest-1-day-spike-in-bengal-with-200-cases/story-9DTHOVS5b0Ttrr4WIbDS2O.html
25-05-2020||India||Virtual courts are not a panacea: Chandrachud||The Covid-19 outbreak forced the Supreme Court to resort to virtual court hearings so that the safety of lawyers, litigants and media personnel was not jeopardised, but such hearings will not replace or be a substitute for physical courts, Supreme Court judge, justice DY Chandrachud, said on Sunday.“I want to dissuade people from the idea that virtual court hearings are some sort of a panacea,” justice Chandrachud said at a webinar organized by Nyaya Forum of National Academy of Legal Studies and Research, Hyderabad on the topic Future of Virtual Courts and Access to Justice in India.“They will not be able to replace physical court hearings. We had to resort to virtual court hearings because Covid-19 descended without warning and we had no other choice. We had to protect those who come to court –lawyers, litigants, media personnel, paralegals, interns”, he said.The Supreme Court, which is under complete shutdown due to the Coronavirus threat, has been hearing only extremely urgent cases since March 23 via video conferencing without the personal presence of lawyers. The top court had issued a circular on March 23 suspending the entry of lawyers and litigants into the court premises and directing that only extremely urgent cases be taken up for hearing through video conferencing during the lockdown period.The video conferencing is conducted by the court through the Vidyo app that can be downloaded on mobile phones and desktops.On the use of technology in courts, justice Chandrachud said that technology was an inseparable adjunct to rule of law and will have to be employed as a critical element in court design. Justice Chandrachud, who is also the chairperson of the e-committee at the Supreme Court, said that the digitization of courts including e-filing must be standardized across the countryThe filing of cases in the Supreme Court is set to undergo a radical change with the introduction of the new e-filing module in the near future. The module will provide personalized information to every advocate-on-record of cases which have been filed by them, their own causelist of cases, details of pleadings filed by them and pleadings filed by others in cases in which they appear.The service will be available round the clock which would mean that a lawyer can file case anytime of the day and any day irrespective of whether the registry is working or not.“We as judges have a vital role to ensure that young members of the Bar are trained and we have to do the hand-holding ourselves”, justice Chandrachud said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/virtual-courts-are-not-a-panacea-chandrachud/story-bSdGTHP3IbrAKHefjtQgMN.html
25-05-2020||India||2 MP policemen suspended for beating up man||Two policemen were suspended and an inquiry ordered a day after a video clip showed the two mercilessly beating an “intoxicated” man in Chhindwara, Madhya Pradesh, police said on Sunday. Additional Superintendent of Police, Chhindwara, Shashank Garg said, “The video is old in which head constable Krishna Dongre and constable Ashish were seen beating a man. Sub-divisional officer of police SP Singh has been deputed with an inquiry into it. As we have learnt the man used to create ruckus in intoxicated state in his locality and police had been called to control him in the past as well.”The 30-year-old man who was thrashed, has been identified as Nanu, a mason and resident of Piplyanarayanwar. In the purported video, one of the two policemen were seen hitting the man with his lathi (cane) in his head and other parts even after he fell unconscious.The man was then taken to the district hospital for medical examination after which he was dropped at his residence. His condition is fine, said police.Superintendent of Police (SP), Chhindwara Vivek Agrawal said, “The incident is unfortunate. As we came to know about it, I immediately suspended the police personnel and ordered an inquiry into the incident. There will be exemplary punishment against them if they are found guilty in the inquiry.”When asked about injuries caused to the man the SP said, “No serious injury was found in medical examination. However, since the incident is old it might be a reason why no serious injury was found.” Earlier on Saturday, they were shifted from field duty to the police lines. Chhindwara is home turf of state Congress president and ex-chief minister Kamal Nath .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-mp-policemen-suspended-for-beating-up-man/story-jyhfCxi42WWcquFdngoX3L.html
25-05-2020||India||2 migrants deliver babies aboard spl trains||BhubaneswarTwo women migrant workers travelling back to their homes in Odisha by Shramik Special trains safely delivered babies during their journeys on Sunday, providing a rare cause of cheer amid the often grim stories narrated by distressed migrants returning to the state after losing their jobs during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) lockdown.In Bolangir district, a migrant worker delivered a baby girl in the Shramik Special train at Titlagarh railway station on Sunday. Migrant worker Hema Kanti was travelling from Kazipet in Telangana in Bolangir when she went into labour.East Coast Railway officials halted the train at Titlagarh railway station where Kanti gave birth to a baby girl at around 10.15 am in the presence of the railway divisional medical officer. Railway officials shifted Kanti and the newborn to Titlagarh government hospital after the delivery.In the second incident, police officials in Jharsuguda town police station helped a migrant worker deliver a baby in a police control room (PCR) van. Payal Kumari of Krishnapur in Bihar was going from Secunderabad to Danapur in Bihar with her husband Balkrishna Prasad when she experienced labour pains.On being informed by Railway authorities, Jharsuguda Town police station inspector Sabitri Bal rushed to the railway station along with tehsildar GB Mangaraj. “As the train halted at Jharsuguda station at 2.20 pm, inspector Bal found the pregnant lady in extreme pain and decided to take her to hospital. Since no other vehicle was available, the police officer took Payal in a PCR van. Before they could reach the hospital, Payal delivered a baby girl inside the vehicle under the supervision of Bal,” said Jharsuguda superintendent of police Rahul PR.Later, the mother and baby were admitted to Jharsuguda hospital where their condition was stated to be stable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-migrants-deliver-babies-aboard-spl-trains/story-PcholNQ1L7HYNwpROGHg6H.html
25-05-2020||India||Red alert issued as heatwave intensifies in north India, likely to persist for 4-5 days||Delhi’s residents sweltered in a heatwave on Sunday, with the maximum temperature hitting five degrees above normal for the second consecutive day, and no respite forecast for the plains until at least May 28, prompting a red alert in the capital as well as Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan.The Safdarjung weather station recorded the maximum temperature at 44.4 degrees Celsius. The authorities sounded a red category alert for Delhi, Haryana, Punjab, west and east Rajasthan on May 25 and 26 for heatwave or severe heatwaves. A red category alert implies authorities should take action to avoid health emergencies.South Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh reported heatwaves and Churu in west Rajasthan reported a severe heatwave on Sunday, with a maximum temperature of 47.4 degrees Celsius.The heat was worse in several other places, where the maximum temperature rose above 46 degrees Celsius.Nagpur Sonegaon in the Vidarbha region recorded 46.2 degrees Celsius; Churu in Rajasthan 46.6 degrees Celsius, Akola in Maharashtra 46 degrees Celsius, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Heatwave conditions are very likely to persist for the next four to five days, with peak intensity on May 25 and 26, IMD said in its Sunday bulletin, citing dry northwesterly winds blowing over the plains of northwest India and central India and the north-south trough in lower tropospheric levels from east India to south-peninsular India.“We don’t see any signs of maximum temperatures falling till May 28. From May 28, we are expecting dust storms and thunderstorms due to a western disturbance. Wind speed will increase to 50 to 60 kmph and there will be clouding. Right now, very dry hot northwesterly winds are blowing over entire northwest India. Sunrays are also vertical, making its impact very intense, humidity has been only 30% to 40%,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head of the regional weather forecasting centre.The maximum temperature in Delhi’s Aya Nagar was 45.6 degrees Celsius, 6 degrees above normal and 44.2 degrees Celsius at Lodhi Road.IMD’s bulletin added that heatwave conditions were likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha and Telangana during the next 4-5 days. Similar conditions were predicted in some pockets over Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Marathawada, Coastal Andhra Pradesh, Yanam, Rayalseema and north-interior Karnataka during next 3-4 days.Because of strong southerly winds from Bay of Bengal to northeastern states at lower tropospheric levels, heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely at some places over Assam, Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh from May 24 to 28, according to IMD. Heavy rainfall is also likely over parts of south-peninsular India on May 26 and 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/red-alert-issued-as-heatwave-intensifies-in-northern-india/story-mN7acE4BahtYIwnyzxSsLM.html
25-05-2020||India||Poverty-stricken, jobless Hyd couple tries to sell infant son for ₹22,000||Poverty and lack of work during the lockdown enforced to prevent the spread of Covid-19 drove a migrant couple in Hyderabad to try and sell their two-month old son for Rs 22,000 through a mediator on Sunday.Jeedimetla police arrested the couple, Madan Kumar Singh, 32, and Saritha, 30, of Uttar Pradesh, who came to Hyderabad a few years ago to work as construction labourers.Another woman, identified as Seshu, who was brokering the deal, was also taken into custody. The child was the couple’s second son; the first is seven years old.“We have rescued the child and shifted him to Sishu Vihar being run by the women and child welfare department authorities,” P V Padmaja Reddy, deputy commissioner of police of Balanagar, said .She said enquiries revealed that the couple was in acute poverty. “We are investigating as to whether there were any other reasons for the sale of the child,” the DCP said.Jeedimetla police said the couple had apparently thought they would not be able to raise the second child. The child’s mother told the police that her husband was also used to consuming alcohol and was pestering her for money to buy liquor.“The couple managed to find a broker Seshu, known to the couple, who reportedly found a childless couple who agreed to buy the child for Rs 22,000. On receiving a tipoff, we caught Seshu, who was taking the child for a medical examination,” a police officer said.Andhra Pradesh Balala Hakkula Sangham (child rights association) president P Achyuta Rao said it was the responsibility of the state government to come to the rescue of daily-wage workers who were in extreme poverty because of the lockdown. “The department of women and child welfare should launch an awareness campaign about the cradle scheme among the poor people who were resorting to selling of new-born babies,” he said. Cradle (”Ooyala” in Telugu) scheme is meant for taking care of abandoned children or children who were sold by their parents, by Women and Child Welfare Department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/poverty-stricken-jobless-hyd-couple-tries-to-sell-infant-son-for-22-000/story-utRo7TvglPQjqLPo3gr5IJ.html
25-05-2020||India||Indian soldiers not held at China border: Army||As tensions simmer between India and China in the Ladakh sector that has seen a worrying troop build-up and military reinforcements from both sides after a nasty border brawl in early May, the army on Sunday strongly denied reports in some sections of the media that an Indian patrol party was detained by Chinese forces last week and later released.“There has been no detention of Indian soldiers at the borders. We categorically deny this. It only hurts national interests when media outlets publish unsubstantiated news,” army spokesperson Colonel Aman Anand said. Union minister Jitendra Singh shared the army’s statement on his Twitter handle and described the reports as “dangerously fake news.”The detention of a border patrol by an adversary is seen as a provocative act that can bring rival forces perilously close to conflict, experts said. The standoff along the line of actual control (LAC) is not confined to a small area, has triggered an increase in troop numbers on both sides at multiple locations and seems to suggest a greater design rather than adventurism by local Chinese commanders, as reported by HT on Sunday.Indian and Chinese soldiers are eyeball-to-eyeball at four different locations in the sensitive sector and the total number of soldiers on both sides at these flashpoints is estimated to be around 3,000.“Wherever the Chinese have sent more troops, we have matched their numbers by beefing up our deployment. Some structures have come up on both sides to support the troops on the ground,” officials said. Chinese soldiers are said to have constructed bunkers and other structures to support their deployments in some disputed areas. The Chinese side has also deployed troops, vehicles and heavy equipment, involved in a military exercise in the area, to the Ladakh sector --- satellite images showing the military build-up have been doing the rounds on social media.Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane made a low-key visit to Ladakh on Friday for a security review as tensions grew between India and China near Pangong Tso and three pockets in the Galwan Valley region where Chinese troops have pitched close to 100 tents and erected temporary structures to establish a presence.China’s state-run media has described the latest tensions as the worst since the 2017 Doklam standoff, which lasted 73 days. Soldiers on both sides are showing restraint and local commanders are meeting almost daily to de-escalate. However, experts said ending the stalemate would require political direction and diplomatic intervention.India on Thursday rejected China’s allegation that Indian troops initiated tensions and crossed the LAC in the Ladakh and Sikkim sectors and accused the Chinese army of hindering patrols on the Indian side.China’s foreign ministry first accused Indian troops of trespassing across the LAC in a statement last week, saying Beijing had to take “necessary countermeasures” after the Indian Army allegedly obstructed normal patrols by Chinese troops.HT was the first to report on May 10 about tensions flaring between India and China in north Sikkim where 150 soldiers were involved in a tense standoff a day earlier. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured at Naku La during the confrontation.Scores of soldiers from the two countries clashed near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5-6 and several of them were injured in the scuffle that involved around 250 men. While a flare-up was avoided as both armies stuck to protocols to resolve the situation, tension spread to other parts of eastern Ladakh, including the Galwan Valley area....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-soldiers-not-held-at-china-border-army/story-Ffv3EAkj6BW0eFglRWMKJP.html
25-05-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||A new study on Covid-19 patients from Singapore highlights just why it’s important to refine treatment and hospitalisation policies on the basis of science.Bloomberg News reported on Sunday that a joint paper by the country’s National Centre for Infectious Diseases and the Academy of Medicine showed that patients were no longer contagious 11 days after infection. In other words, they had enough of a viral load to return a positive test, but not enough to infect others. Bloomberg cited a report in the Straits Times to say that the country’s ministry of health will now see if these findings need to be “incorporated into its patient clinical management plan”. This is a significant finding for two reasons. One, most scientists now accept that the primary way in which the coronavirus disease spreads is person to person. This, despite the huge obsession researchers have had with surface transmission and the reams of literature on what’s safe to touch and what isn’t.A minor digression is in order here: your newspaper is perfectly safe. As I messaged a friend in the neighbourhood who asked whether he should allow the papers to be delivered to his house: “It’s probably safer than many other things you do; there are no records, anywhere in the world, of anyone getting infected by a newspaper; and, in the worst-case scenario that you become the first person in the world to be infected by the newspaper, then you will be a person of interest to science.” Actually, I didn’t use the term “person of interest to science”; I said “medical marvel”.Two, if follow-up studies establish the findings of the Singapore study to be accurate and universal, people can be safely discharged after 11 days, even if they continue to test positive. The current discharge policy in India is that a person has to test negative twice before being discharged. A change in this policy may mean less strain on health care resources. It also means people who have physically recovered from the illness, or asymptomatic people who never fell ill, can now be discharged 11 days after they first tested positive.India has now reached a stage (138,474 cases as of Sunday night; 3,949 dead), where it has to start looking at whether its health care resources are adequate to deal with the pandemic. They probably are at the aggregate level — not at all hot spots of infection.For instance, Mumbai’s health care resources are straining under the weight of a high volume of cases and suspected cases (anyone with symptoms is being admitted to hospitals). In the seven days to Saturday, the city saw 1185, 1411, 1372, 1382, 1751 and 1566 cases -- an average of 1,444 cases a day. Sure, many of these are likely to be asymptomatic individuals who get sent to a quarantine facility or be asked to isolate at home, but at least some of them will need hospitals. Then, there are those with Covid-19 symptoms who have been tested and are awaiting results, or are yet to be tested (and have to be in hospital).On average, between Monday and Saturday last week, 807 Covid-19 and suspected Covid-19 patients were admitted to Mumbai hospitals. The most was on Saturday, 1059, and the least on Monday, 678.Delhi has been registering, on average, between half and a third the number of cases in Mumbai over the past few days, but the city has been lucky so far in that many of the positive cases have not needed hospitalisation. Between Monday and Saturday, for instance, the number of people requiring hospitalisation increased only by around 114 (the number doesn’t factor in the number of people who either died or were discharged, and is therefore an approximation). It also doesn’t include suspected cases admitted to hospitals. Still, while a direct comparison of the Delhi and Mumbai numbers isn’t possible, the data clearly shows the pressure on the health system in Mumbai.This should serve as an early warning for planners in Delhi, Chennai, and Ahmedabad. They may never have to cope with a situation akin to what Mumbai is going through right now, but they should be prepared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-m36raAKeYcuQv2LTZCIgfL.html
25-05-2020||India||Covid-19 dampens Eid celebrations across India||Under the shadow of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Kerala, Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh on Sunday marked Eid al-Fitr, but the usual fervour and celebrations were missing. Although the lockdown was partially eased to allow shopping and short travel, people remained indoors and avoided customary meetings with family, friends and relatives to maintain physical distancing and check crowding at public places The rest of the country will celebrate Eid on Monday. Prayer gatherings, outdoor celebrations and other public events were curtailed or cancelled to prevent the spread of the coronavirus.No Eid prayers were offered for the second consecutive time in major mosques of Kashmir. All the shrines put up banners saying no congregational prayers were being organised.Last year, Eid-ul-Azha prayers could not be offered in Kashmir because the authorities imposed a strict curfew in the wake of the effective revocation of Article 370 that divested the state of its special status and divided Jammu and Kashmir into Union territories -- J&K and Ladakh.In Kerala too, the usual fervour associated with Eid was missing. Many shopkeepers in Kozhikkode’s Sweetmeat Street, famous for its shopping, said their business had been one-tenth the usual level in the last two days. Besides the lockdown norms, lack of money also forced many people to remain indoors, they said. Many religious leaders had asked believers to stay at home.With other states celebrating the festival on Monday, guidelines were being put in place by governments and the religious heads.There will be no relaxations for Eid prayers in Uttarakhand. Ashok Kumar, director general (law & order) Uttarakhand police said. “The restrictions will be in place as they are at present.”Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee appealed to the Muslim community in Bengal to celebrate Eid and offer prayers indoors so that social distancing norms enforced to counter the Covid-9 pandemic are not violated. The Bengal Imams Association made the same appeal.“For a month you observed Ramzan indoors. I appeal to you to celebrate Eid the same way. Please have faith in me. Mankind will be grateful to you,” said Banerjee.In Madhya Pradesh, Masajid committee (Bhopal) superintendent Yasar Aarafat said, “Only five selected persons will offer the prayer on the occasion at the mosque at Eidgaah. People will offer prayers at home. There will be no hugging also on the occasion.”In Goa too, there will be no community celebrations this year, with the president of the Association of All Goa Muslim Jamaats, Sheikh Basheer Ahmed, saying: “This year we will celebrate Eid differently. It won’t be like every year because this year we will celebrate it individually each in our own homes with our children, parents and family. We should not congregate for the namaz at the masjid, idgah or any other similar place. We cannot congregate and have to maintain social distancing,” Ahmed said.In Chhattisgarh, prayers will be offered in the mosques, but no more than five people will be allowed.“No congregation is allowed during Eid and we have appealed that celebrations should be done inside the house. We have also appealed not to spend money on shopping and purchasing. Instead, the money should be distributed among the poor and sufferers in this crisis,” said Shehar Qazi of Raipur, Mohammad Ali FarooqiThe historic Gandhi Maidan in Bihar, after more than 90 years, will not host any Eid prayers in view of the pandemic and the need to maintain social distancing.On a call by Ulemas and Muftis from all schools of Islamic thought, Muslims in Hyderabad have been offering Taraweeh prayers at their homes during Ramzan month. In Uttar Pradesh too, both Shia and Sunni clerics asked the faithful to keep Eid a low-key affair and offer prayers indoors.Nawab Malik, Maharashtra minority affairs minister, on Saturday urged people not to gather in basements, parking areas, or any other place to offer prayers.“Our religious leaders have already urged people not to violate lockdown rules and to contribute in the best possible way to fight this challenge. The Muslim community will not be demanding any exemption and ready to celebrate Eid without any gatherings,” said Malik.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disease-dampens-eid-celebrations-across-india/story-VZc7XvClp0tDoJIenR5UrK.html
25-05-2020||India||Covid-19 surge pushes Mumbai to the brink||On May 10, a 35-year-old bank loan agent in Mumbai suddenly developed a temperature. With the city firmly in the grip of the coronavirus pandemic,his family was alarmed but he dismissed their concern, saying he hadn’t come in contact with any confirmed Covid-19 patient.He ran to the local medical store in the neighbourhood in Vakola, and bought a strip of paracetamol. When he went to bed that night, he thought his body temperature would be down to normal the next day.That didn’t happen. By morning, he was burning up and over the next two days, his condition slowly deteriorated. On May 13, his 38-year-old brother took him to VN Desai Hospital where an X-ray showed patches of pneumonia in his lungs that made the consulting doctor suspicious. He was referred to Cooper Hospital, a designated Covid-19 hospital in the city.“After standing in a line for two hours to take a slip to see a doctor, I was informed that the line for the fever clinic is different. By that time, my brother had already started having trouble breathing. So, I rushed him to a private nursing home,” said his brother.The nursing home refused to admit him without a swab test. So, the doctor at the nursing home prescribed a Covid test and he was taken to Hinduja Hospital for a test.After three days on May 16, the report confirmed that he was a Covid carrier.Worried, his brother called the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) helpline number (1916) for guidance. At 6pm that day, two doctors came to examine the patient.“The doctors informed me that at around 8pm, they will send an ambulance,” said the brother. But the vehicle didn’t arrive even at 10.30pm, prompting the brother to call the helpline again. “Finally after four hours of wait, at round 12.30am, the vehicle came,” said the brother.There was now a new problem – the ambulance didn’t have any oxygen support system, critical for a patient with severe breathing problems. By the time they reached the Guru Nanak Hospital, four kilometres away, the patient’s oxygen levels had dipped to dangerous levels. The hospital had no intensive care unit (ICU) beds available so the doctor referred him to Seven Hills Hospitals, 12km away. They reached the hospital at 1.45am. “Before we could enter, police stopped us at the gate and told us that there was no bed available. Despite repeated pleas, they didn’t allow us to go inside. Then they asked to go to Nair hospital [in central Mumbai],” said the brother.By now, he had travelled across five suburbs of the city, first to get a diagnosis and then, in search of a bed. Frantic, the brother dialed Nair Hospital, one of the largest Covid-19 facilities in Mumbai with 52 ICU beds, but was told there was none available.Four more hours were spent in the ambulance before a local politician helped the family get an ICU bed at the Jogeshwari Trauma Centre. The bed was available only after 9am.It was already 5am, so the brothers went home to rest. “My brother’s back was paining by sitting in the ambulance for so long and there was no oxygen support, he couldn’t even breathe, so I took him home. We rested for four hours, then went to Jogeshwari Trauma Centre,” said the 38-year-old.When they reached the hospital at 9am on May 18, they were informed that there were no vacant beds. After waiting for another three hours, at around 12pm, the patient finally was admitted to the ICU and given a bed – a week after his symptoms had worsened and two days after he was confirmed to be a Covid patient. At night on May 18, his brother received a call that the patient’s condition was severe and that he had been put on a ventilator. “Then, at 12.35am, the hospital informed me that my brother succumbed to his infection,” the brother said.Devastated with their loss and seething at the lax response of the authorities, the family researched his condition and found that patients develop pneumonia in the later stage of the infection. “This means he was already serious. But because of the delay of 18 hours due to unavailability of ambulances and bed, his condition deteriorated,” said the brother. “If he got treatment on time, I could have saved him.”The harrowing experience of the Vakola family is not isolated. On May 1, a family from Chembur visited five hospitals to get a 62-year-old woman admitted but couldn’t. Four days later, the woman succumbed to the infection without getting any treatment. “I had never felt so helpless as I did when I could not save my mother. I was ready to put in all my savings but no hospital was ready to admit and treat her,” said the daughter. A 38-year-old patient from Govandi could not find a bed for four days and was turned away from four government hospitals. He developed Covid symptoms on May 3; his condition is now critical but he has not even been administered a swab test.Much like New York was in March and April, Mumbai is struggling to cope with the surge of Covid patients. Hospitals are stretched to capacity, front-line staff are struggling to deal with physical, emotional and psychological trauma and tempers are running high among patients and medical staff. Doctors are contracting the infection by the dozen, fights are breaking out in hospital queues and bodies of deceased patients are being left behind in wards for hours on end. A worried civic body has taken over large sections of private hospitals and is looking to turn buses and school vans into makeshift ambulances. “Mumbai is on the verge of a health crisis,” said Dr Deepak Baid, president of Association of Medical Consultants. “The corporation should have made the arrangements earlier considering the huge population of Mumbai. Now, the helpline number has started giving a token number for the waiting list. They don’t even consider the patients who are critical,” he added. Mumbai reported its first infection on March 11, when two passengers from Dubai tested positive. But the city’s crisis grabbed national attention on April 1, when the first case was reported from the slum cluster of Dharavi, where more than a million people jostle in cheek-by-jowl shanties and tin-roofed rooms are often shared by eight or 10 people. Since then, the virus has raced through almost every neighbourhood of the coastal city, from the upmarket localities of Marine Drive and Malabar Hill to the working-class neighbourhoods of Worli and Sion. As of Sunday, Mumbai had 30, 542 cases with 988 fatalities. On average, the city has reported around 1,500 cases every day this week, with experts warning that the peak of the disease will come in the middle of June. On Sunday, the city crossed 30,000 cases with 1,725 new infections – its highest daily jump yet. This trajectory of the virus is well chronicled. When the disease pummeled New York in early March, the daily tally of cases suddenly jumped from the hundreds into several thousands. A week later, hospitals were overflowing and exhausted health care staff struggled to treat the patients who were being wheeled in almost every minute, as as depicted in unforgettable photos from that time of tired nurses with garbage bags for protective equipment. The Maharashtra government’s data says roughly 29% of the state’s patients need hospitalization. Daksha Shah, deputy health officer of the BMC, further added that 20% of the patients require ICU care and 5% need ventilators. In Mumbai, which has 21,297 active cases, Shah’s calculation translates to roughly 6,100 patients needing hospitalization, 4,200 patients needing ICU beds and 1,060 requiring ventilators. A separate calculation by the daily report of state medical education and drugs department pegged the percentage of patients requiring critical care at 5%. If this figure is extrapolated for Mumbai, it translates to around 1,000 patients. But the BMC controls just 530 ICU beds, though the capacity has now gone up to 1,165 after the government on Friday took over 80% of beds in private hospitals in the city. Additionally, the city has 589 ventilators, and 2,255 beds with oxygen support systems.“This will be inadequate,” said a top state health department officer on condition of anonymity. He said according to the government’s calculations, almost 0.5% of Mumbai will be infected by the end of June, which translated to at least 100,000 infections. At the 5% ICU requirement calculation mentioned earlier, this translates to 5,000 ICU beds.One big advantage Mumbai has over New York is that India has a much lower fatality rate than the US – 2.9% compared to 5.9%. But the city is grappling with rising panic and outdated technology.Government procedure dictates that a patient is supposed to call the BMC helpline and get themselves registered for a hospital bed, which is then allotted to the patient as soon as it is available. This may take between a few minutes to several hours. The BMC helpline is fielding 4,000 calls daily – out of which 1,800 are for bed requests -- but the lack of live dashboards means that helpline coordinators cannot guide patients on time, causing further delays.Volunteers of the number say unavailability of live updates from hospitals cripple their ability to help patients. “By the time we assign a bed to a caller, the bed gets booked by another critical patient. There are waiting lists in all tertiary care hospitals. So, we need to distribute the crowd to peripheral hospitals where beds are available. For that, we need a live dashboard to inform patients,” said a volunteer on condition of anonymity because he is not allowed to talk to the media.In response, BMC officials said they have put in place a foolproof system.“We have appointed a doctor in the 1916 control room, who is supposed to gauge the need to allot an ICU bed, on call with the patient, after asking a set number of simple questions. These questions can help the doctor determine for the time being if the patient primarily needs an ICU bed. Every co-morbid patient does not need an ICU bed,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner (health), BMC.Officials also said they are developing a live dashboard in coordination with a private company that will be installed soon. “Only BMC officers will have access to the dashboard. It will get updated every 30 seconds. It will have the list both from private and civic-run hospitals. We can’t keep it open as people will unnecessarily start flocking to the centres,” added Kakani.Beds in Mumbai are divided into three categories: One, Covid Care Centres 1 and 2 (CCCs 1 and 2), the first for high-risk contacts of positive persons and the second for asymtomatic and mild symptomatic patients.Two, Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHC) for symptomatic patients and moderately ill patients and some patients with co-morbidity; and, three, Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCH) for patients showing prolonged symptoms of fever, cough, and breathlessness, patients with co-morbidity, Covid positive senior citizens, severely ill and critical patients who need ICUs. In all, there are 73,000 beds in Mumbai -- 5,500 DCH, 10,000 DCHC, 23,000 CCC1 (not for Covid patients), and 34,500 CCC2 beds. Currently, a total of 5,392 patients are admitted in the first and second categories of beds – the most critical. Out of this, 4,056 are in government and civic-run hospitals while 1,336 are in private hospitals. Kakani said the body has sufficient CCC, DCHC and DCH beds for Covid-19 patients. “It is true however, that there are limited number of ICU beds and these need to be used judiciously,” he admitted. According to the government, there are four main reasons for the shortage in critical care.One, many patients and their relatives prefer major hospitals to peripheral hospitals. “While we have beds available in peripheral hospitals, we cannot force a patient to go there if he doesn’t want to. The hospitals everyone chooses are the ones that are over burdened,” said a senior civic body official on condition of anonymity.Two, the stigma and panic around the infection prompt many families to not seek treatment on time. “They wait and watch for the symptoms to subside, but it only gets worse. Many patients come to hospitals at a much later stage of the infection, and then need critical healthcare,” said a second civic body official on condition of anonymity.Three, many patients insist that doctors put them on oxygen support even if their levels are normal. “Due to the anxiety and fear, they become breathless. Then they assume that their oxygen saturation is low. The recovery rate among patients between 20-40 years is high. We need to save the beds for senior citizens with co-morbid issues,” said Dr Om Srivastava, a city epidemiologist who is also part of the Covid task force.Four, many government officials feel private non-covid hospitals should not discharge a Covid-19 patient until a bed is found in a Covid hospital. “We coaxed private hospitals, offered them incentives, but it did not work. Hence we came up with the guidelines for 80% reservation of beds in all private hospitals, managed and distributed centrally by BMC,” said a third civic body official. The BMC says it is aware the city is yet to hit the caseload peak and is preparing for an even bigger surge in cases. So-called Jumbo facilities for asymptomatic patients in six locations are being converted into critical care units, with at least 10,000 beds added. At least 50% of these will have oxygen points as well and 10% beds will be reserved for virus patients who need dialysis.The BMC is also revamping mini buses and school buses to make ambulances and hopes this will add 350 vehicles to its 250-strong fleet. “The preparations we are making now will complete by May end. These are being made keeping June’s cases in mind,” said additional municipal commissioner Sanjeev Jaiswal.The surge of the pandemic has hit hard thousands of medical staff at the forefront of the fight against the virus in isolation wards. Interns, resident doctors, senior doctors, and nurses, all working in three shifts of eight hours each with personal protective equipment (PPE) as their only shield, are fighting a steep battle against not just the disease but also associated mental health concerns. In Mumbai alone, 300 medical staff have contracted the infection. “We can’t start the air conditioning due to possible transmission of the virus. In this heat, we have to work in PPE for 6-8 hours without even drinking water. With precipitation and dehydration, our body starts aching. We feel dizzy,” said a doctor stationed in the isolation ward of St George Hospital which has over 100 covid-19 patients. Many woman nurses and doctors complain of urinary tract infection (UTI) due to the dehydration. The problem gets worse during menstruation. “During the monthly cycle, women generally feel nauseous and weak. With the PPE on, we can’t even go to the washroom, to get refreshed,” said a nurse from Kasturba Gandhi Hospital.All the medical staff on Covid duty are given alternative accommodation in hotels or lodges. Many haven’t seen their family for over two months. “I have a 3-year-old daughter whom I have seen last in March. We do video chats everyday but I miss hugging her,” said Mahalaxmi Iyer, a nurse at Seven Hills Hospital, a resident of Vasai. At the Kasturba Gandhi Hospital, a 48-year-old midwife developed loose motions. So, she used an adult diaper for two days to avoid going to the washroom while on PPE. “I can’t take leave as we are already short staffed and I couldn’t afford going to the washroom repeatedly. So, I used an adult diaper. It felt uncomfortable in the beginning but later, I got used to it,” she said. The fear of contracting the infection is ever present. So far, over 75 resident doctors have contracted the infection on duty. Many of them are as young as 20 years. “We weren’t ready to face the situation. Even after the duty hours, we discuss the reports of patients. Many of us have developed anxiety. Then parents keep forcing us to come back home which adds on to the mental trauma,” said a nursing student from Sion hospital who contracted the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-surge-pushes-mumbai-to-the-brink/story-N3XsregWx5gEUGVBLGow8N.html
25-05-2020||India||IAF set to raise second LCA squadron in Sulur||The Indian Air Force is all set to raise its second squadron of the locally made light combat aircraft Tejas at Sulur in Tamil Nadu on May 27, people familiar with the development said on Sunday. The IAF’s first Tejas squadron was raised at the Sulur air base in 2016 with two aircraft and more planes joined the fleet progressively.IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria is expected to travel to Sulur on Wednesday for the event. The second squadron is being raised with the first aircraft in the final operational clearance (FOC) configuration and more will be added later, officials said.The IAF has so far ordered 40 LCAs, split in the initial operational clearance (IOC) version and the more advanced and FOC configuration. The first squadron consists of IOC aircraft.“The raising of the squadron, though delayed, is welcome news. Hindustan Aeronautics Limited has to speed up production of the Tejas to meet the trust placed on it by the IAF; eight Tejas per year is just not acceptable,” said Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies.In March, the defence ministry gave the green light to the purchase of 83 LCA Mk-1A advanced Tejas jets from HAL. The contract is expected to be inked in the coming months.The deal, expected to be worth Rs 38,000 crore, is critical for HAL to prevent a complete halt of production at its facilities. HT reported on January 11 that HAL’s order books are empty beyond 2021-22 and new orders from the armed forces --- especially for the 83 jets --- are critical for continuity in production.The LCA Mk-1A will come with additional improvements over the FOC aircraft, making it the most advanced Tejas variant so far.The Mk-1A variant is expected to come with digital radar warning receivers, external self-protection jammer pods, active electronically scanned array radar, advanced beyond-visual-range missiles and significantly improved maintainability. HAL is expected to deliver the first Mk-1A jet to the IAF three years after the deal is signed.The IAF is struggling with a shortage of warplanes. Compared to an optimum strength of 42-plus units required to fight a two-front war, the count of the IAF’s fighter squadrons has shrunk to 31. The first four of the 36 Rafales ordered from France are expected to arrive in India by July-end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-set-to-raise-second-lca-squadron-in-sulur/story-JXmn3V2KhbqXm3fNDAYUnM.html
25-05-2020||India||Addressing Covid outbreak with clinical studies of Ayush systems: Ayush minister||The ministry of Ayush (ayurveda, yoga & naturopathy, unani, siddha and homoeopathy) is also active in India’s fight against coronavirus disease (Covid-19). In an interview, Ayush minister Shripad Yesso Naik talks about initiatives launched by his ministry and studies being carried out to generate scientific evidence in favour of ayurvedic herbs in the treatment of Covid-19.How is the Ayush ministry contributing to managing the Covid-19 situation in the country?The ministry of Ayush has taken several initiatives like research in collaboration with the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), public health institutes, and through its research councils and national institutes. It has also released health advisory vetted from Ayush experts toward immune boosting measures for protection against Covid-19. Also, there is a dedicated dashboard to provide real-time information on all Covid-19 related activities by the Ayush ministry.There is some amount of skepticism among a section of people related to trying Ayush medicines either as prophylaxis or for treating Covid-19 symptoms. Is there any attempts being made to generate scientific evidence in support of traditional medicines?The ministry is addressing Covid-19 pandemic problem through clinical studies (prophylactic, stand-alone and add-on interventions) of Ayush systems, and also studying the impact of Ayush-based prophylactic interventions in high-risk population. It’s also studying impact of Ayush advocacies and Ayush measures for prevention of Covid-19 among the population. The ministry has set up an interdisciplinary Ayush research and development task force with a group of experts to formulate and develop strategies for this initiative. In order to generate tangible evidence the ministry has also initiated collaborative clinical studies as a joint initiative of ministries of Ayush, health, and science & technology through CSIR with technical support of ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) for studying identified Ayurveda herbs as add on to hydroxychloroquine in Covid-19.Also, various prophylactic, clinical and population-based survey studies have been initiated to address the challenge of Covid-19. The ministry has invited research proposals through a dedicated website portal for Covid-19, which were thoroughly screened by a screening committee and the task force to identify and study best possible leads. In the past, certain preventive advisories against Covid-19 were issued by the Ayush ministry that had mentioned some medicines for it, but were later withdrawn after it was criticized as the disease currently has no cure. Will you clarify?The Ayush ministry’s advisory suggested immune boosting measures and certain symptomatic management with a disclaimer that this was not the treatment or cure of Coviod-19, and it was not withdrawn and is still available online. Further immune boosting advisories with daily used spices, herbs and lifestyle have been released so maximum public could benefit.Since everyone is talking about adopting a new normal in the post Covid-19 world, including in medical practice, how do you see things changing for practicing alternative systems of medicine?There has been a paradigm shift from the disease: cure-oriented medical practices toward health-oriented health- care services where people are becoming more and more aware toward prevention of disease and salutogenesis (medical approach focusing on factors that support human health and well-being) that is making the body strong and with improved immunity so to have a healthy life. Post Covid-19. I believe this will further strengthen. Ayush has a major role to play in this as its main objective is to maintain health of the healthy and prevent the disease.Now that Aatmanirbharta is the buzz word in almost all spheres, what are the focus areas for the Ayush ministry towards promoting be self-reliance?Aatmanirbharta is certainly important for us and the best way toward making a stronger, healthier and better India. With its introduction in Ayushman Bharat and initiation of health and wellness centres, it will certainly be achieved in near future. We are also committed in propagating advocacies on healthy lifestyle and use of common herbs etc of Ayush systems, yoga, pranayam etc. among masses to make a better Aatmanirbhar (in terms of health) India. Ayush medicines have a market outside India but still lag behind in comparison to the Chinese traditional medicine market. How do you plan to promote brand make-in-India?Ministry of Ayush has taken several initiatives to bring Ayush on a global platform, and to improve its market like establishment of Forum for Indian Traditional Medicine at Research & Information System for developing countries ( an international agency which specializes in the issues related to international economic development, trade, investment and technology and is an autonomous body set under the administrative control of external affairs ministry). Also, there are two voluntary certification schemes for ayurveda products developed by the ministry-- certification scheme of Quality Council of India (QCI), an autonomous body, and certificate of pharmaceutical products for ayurveda products issued by Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for the purpose of export. QCI scheme provides two kinds of certificates: Ayush standards mark for Ayurveda products complying with domestic regulations, and Ayush premium mark for products complying with international norms. The ministry, along with commerce ministry, is also organizing International Arogya to promote the Indian system of medicine at a global level, and develop strategic partnership in the field of medical and integrated health-care sector between India and other countries. The ministry is also working in collaboration with Ernst and Young for the promotion of investment and ease of doing business in Ayush sector.The worldwide herbal market products are around $6.2 billion and estimated to reach $5 trillion by the year 2050. Currently, the demand for traditional Indian herbal products or Ayurveda has increased tremendously in India as well as at the international level with rising awareness about health and fitness and changing lifestyle. We are working to strengthen it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/addressing-covid-outbreak-with-clinical-studies-of-ayush-systems-ayush-minister/story-MwxBcgYGSGT88CMEv6rBxJ.html
25-05-2020||India||UP rolls back mobile ban at Covid-19 wards||The Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday withdrew an order baning the use of mobile phones by Covid patients in isolation wards after members of the medical fraternity and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav questioned the move. .Director general of the medical education department, Dr KK Gupta, issued a new order which said all patients carrying mobile phones will have to disclose it to medical personnel, who would disinfect the phones and chargers and hand them over to patients at the time of admission.“Disinfection will also be done at the time of discharge. Patients will not share mobile phones with anyone else during admission,” Gupta’s new order said.The earlier order, which reached all medical institutes, had restricted patients from bringing their cell phones to isolation wards and directed medical teams to provide one or two common phones.“Patients in Level-2 and Leve-3 Covid hospitals should not be admitted with mobile phones as it spreads infection,” the earlier order had said.Akhilesh Yadav called Covid quarantine centres ‘torture centres’ and slammed the state government over the order. “The government wants to prevent mobile phones from sending out the truth about mismanagement and bad condition of the centres,” he said/He tweeted: “If mobile phones spread infection, then why not ban them in the entire country? Mobile phones become mental support in loneliness. But the truth is it exposes mismanagement and bad condition of hospitals and the government does not want the truth to reach the people; that’s the reason behind the ban. The need is to sanitise mobile phones than ban them.”The ban order also surprised health experts, who said a cell phone used exclusively by one patient can’t spread infection. “If one or two phones are used by 10 patients, it can always spread infection, no matter how many times the paramedical staff sanitise them,” said Dr PK Gupta, former president of the Indian Medical Association, Lucknow branch.He said coronavirus means physical distance and not emotional distance from family and that cell phones help as stress-busters too. The ban order purportedly came after some patients made videos of the problems they faced and one even gave a video interview to a foreign news agency explaining all the problems faced by her during hospital stay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-rolls-back-mobile-ban-at-covid-19-wards/story-IOh9aIMZeAlqikuix9gGXN.html
25-05-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Some states look beyond colour-coding||Colour-coding of zones based on the prevalence of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases is losing relevance in several states that are primarily focusing on containment areas instead to contain the infection, according to local officials.For example, authorities in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Punjab, West Bengal and Jharkhand have decided against identifying red zone districts in the fourth phase of the lockdown that began on May 18 with the Centre relaxing guidelines to help businesses open after an unprecedented lockdown.In the latest lockdown guidelines by the home ministry, states have been given the power to define red, orange and green zones that have been instrumental in the strategy for imposing area-specific curbs in the previous phase of curbs between May 4 and May 17. While stricter curbs were implemented in red zones, orange zones got several relaxations. The rules were significantly eased for green zones.“Under the new guidelines, States and Union Territories (UTs) will now delineate Red, Green and Orange zones taking into consideration the parameters shared by the Health Ministry,” the government said on May 17. These zones can be a district, or a municipal corporation, or even smaller administrative units such as sub-divisions.Earlier, it was the Centre that came out with two lists — on April 15 and May 1 — identifying red zones (with maximum Covid-19 cases), orange zones (with fewer infections) and green zones (Covid-19-free areas), though several states expressed dismay over the process. In the first list, India had 130 red zones, while the second list identified 170 such areas.The new guidelines added that within red and orange zones, “containment and buffer zones will be as demarcated by the local authorities, after taking into consideration the Health Ministry guidelines”.An official in Chhattisgarh, which has identified four blocks as red zones, said: “We have gone by the central government rule, which allows just a locality or a block, instead of an entire district, to be declared a red zone,” said the official who did not want to be named.Till last week, four districts in the state were in the red zone defined by the central government. Now, in the four red zone blocks, Chhattisgarh has 44 containment centres, same as it had on May 17. “The zones are declared keeping in mind the present situation and geographical area,” the official added.The Centre has laid down some guidelines for states to help them define the zones. The parameters include active cases, active cases per lakh population, doubling rate and case fatality rate, testing ratio and sample positivity rate. Similarly, it has asked local authorities to focus on mapping of cases, geographical dispersion of cases, and enforcing strict perimeter control in case of containment zones, which can be broadly defined as epicentres of infections.On Saturday, Jharkhand placed 21 districts with Covid-19 cases in orange zones. “At present, the state has no red zone district as none of the 24 districts... all 21 affected districts are placed in orange zones, and three other districts, which have not reported any case so far, are green zones,” said state health department principal secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni.Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, too, have done away with the concept of zones, and have taken a cluster-based approach. Till May 17, Andhra Pradesh had five red districts and Telangana six. Now, the focus is on Andhra’s 341 clusters and Telangana’s 130.Andhra Pradesh’s nodal Covid-19 officer, Arja Sreekanth, said clusters that report several fresh cases in a five-day period are classified as “very active”. The two states have given powers to district collectors to identify these clusters and implement strict lockdown norms there. According to federal guidelines, lockdown relaxations across the country are not applicable to containment zones. “The number of containment clusters keep changing on a day-to-day basis, depending on the increase or decrease in the number of Covid-19 cases,” S Subrahmanyam, an official in Andhra’s Covid-19 command control room, said.Kerala, too, has discontinued the colour-coding and adopted containment strategies giving the police powers not to allow people in these areas to move out of their houses. Karnataka has adopted a similar approach. “The number of containment zones is a dynamic number which changes on a daily basis,” said a Karnataka health department official, who was not willing to be named.“The colour categorization was needed in the initial stages to prevent quick spread of Covid to new areas in the district. We were able to contain the infection to certain areas, which shows the strategy worked...(now) the states should decide on how to manage the Covid-19 hot spots,” VK Paul, member incharge of health, Niti Aayog, said last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/some-states-look-beyond-colour-coding/story-S9MmJKsg1XZNLfakSnnmQP.html
25-05-2020||India||Centre identifies 4 cities as role models for handling Covid-19 pandemic||Four cities -- Jaipur, Indore, Chennai and Bengaluru -- could serve as possible role models for other urban centres in handling the Covid-19 pandemic that India is striving to control while moving to restart the economy.In the last few days, the Centre has organized meetings between different municipal bodies to share their experiences in two broad aspects of Covid19 management: effective practises in handling a very high number of positive cases and keeping the mortality rates low, said officials aware of the developments.It identified Jaipur and Indore metropolitan areas for innovate ways of tackling a high caseload and Chennai and Bengaluru as examples of large cities that are able to keep their mortality rates low. Also read: Surge in Covid-19 cases pushes Mumbai to the brinkMany Indian municipalities are facing challenges such as shorter case-doubling time, higher confirmation rates and higher mortality rates than the national average while issues like perimeter control of containment zones, mapping of buffer zones and house-to-house surveillance require more effective management. Slums and other high-density pockets inside the municipalities pose higher risk in Covid-19 management in the top urban centres.Both Indore and Jaipur are aggressively conducting house-to-house surveys and contact tracing. While Indore has formed special patrolling teams for by-lanes, Jaipur has limited groceries or vegetable vendors in different localities to curb the potential super spreaders. As shops or milk booths see a large number of footfalls during the day, municipal workers and the local police are keeping a close eye on these places to ensure regular sanitizing and other measures.Chennai and Bangaluru account for a sizeable number of Covid cases i but have been able to keep the mortality rate to about just 1%-- much lower than the India’s national average of around 3%.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayA senior official said that the two southern cities had led by example in the treatment of Covid-19 patients. “Both Chennai and Bengaluru have optimized the use of ventilators and patient triage or assigning the degree of urgency in cases while handling a large number of patients,” said the official, who requested anonymity .“We have seen some cities where ventilators have been used irrationally. But the patient management in southern states, particularly in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, has been much better,” he added.The strategy adopted by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation was also lauded in the recent meetings. The city has established a network of private hospitals and municipal authorities for pooling health infrastructure. The city is also working to make a portal to display online the availability of beds in different hospitals apart from GPS-enabled ambulances for real-time tracking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-identifies-4-model-cities-for-covid-handling/story-9dm4dVcsqvZU0YGWMynbEN.html
25-05-2020||India||Seer among two killed in Maharashtra’s Nanded; accused arrested||A sadhu residing in his ashram in Nagthana in Maharashtra’s Nanded district, some 250 kilometres from here, and another person were killed on Sunday morning, with police stating that robbery may have been the motive.The accused, a history-sheeter with a 10-year-old murder case against his name, was held a few hours later from Tanur police station limits along the Telangana state border, police added.Superintendent of Police Vijaykumar Magar said sadhu Shivacharya Nirnay Rudrapratap Maharaj (33) and a 50-year-old man identified as Bhagwan Shinde were killed around 4am in Nagthana.“There is a possibility Sainath and Shinde met each other at a Zilla Parishad school some 750 metres away from the ashram where the deceased sadhu stayed. Lingade killed Shinde first, kept his body in a bathroom, and then went to where the sadhu resided, killed him,” the SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seer-among-two-killed-in-nanded-accused-arrested/story-yNmtA1NiIjXOT6QekvQZnN.html
25-05-2020||India||Delhiwale: An auto in Nehru Place||Parked on the side of the road, an auto rickshaw driver and his green-and-yellow rickshaw are waiting for customers.This used to be one of the most ordinary sights of our city, but recently the table has turned and the most ordinary has become extraordinary—no thank you, coronavirus!After a considerable easing of the lockdown restrictions, the city is sprouting back to action, like a dead man regaining life. Every mundane hint of activity has something magical, and so it is with Som Nath and his auto rickshaw. One change has to be noticed though: his driver’s uniform no longer comprise of just grey shirt and grey pants—but also of a mask.“It’s my second day of leaving home to work again,” says the middle-aged Mr Nath. He has been on the spot here in south Delhi’s Nehru Place for about half an hour. “I’m not getting many customers.” One of the reasons is that he is agreeing to board one single person only for each ride, not two (forget three) even if they belong to the same household. “Every auto driver is following the same rule,” he shrugs his shoulders.For two months, Mr Nath stayed cooped up with his wife, Mala, and two sons at their home in Sangam Vihar. His older son is a mechanic and the younger is in tenth standard. There were no earnings during that time but “at least I got cheap rations of atta and dal.” Buying fresh vegetables was not always possible due to their high prices, he notes.During the course of the conversation, Mr Nath remarks that scores of daily wage labourers have been emptying the cities to go back to their villages during the lockdown. His circumstances were not as desperate. “And anyway, I have almost nothing to support myself in my village... we don’t even have a little landholding.”He moved out from his village in Pratapgarh, UP, twenty years ago.About ten minutes pass and no customers approach Mr Nath’s rickshaw. It’s a blinding hot afternoon and the temperature is hovering around mid-40s.“I do feel scared of catching the virus from infected customers,” he confesses to a query. The driver takes precautions, however. He rarely removes his mask except to drink water. And he rubs his palms vigorously with hand sanitizer every time he finishes a transaction with a customer.“But I try not to be tensed. Everyone is passing through this same problem.”Now another auto rickshaw stops by the pavement. Its driver steps out. He too is in a mask.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-an-auto-in-nehru-place/story-aVq09ZhAcZvg6Upt2aWkmM.html
25-05-2020||India||20% beds in 117 private hospitals to be reserved for Covid-19 surge||Private hospitals with 50 or more beds will need to set aside 20% of their bed strength for Covid-19 patients, the Delhi government ordered on Sunday in a measure meant to prepare the city’s health care system for a surge in infections. The capital has 117 private hospitals that will be covered by this rule, which officials said was necessitated because dedicated privately run Covid hospitals were now running close to their capacity. In exchange, the government has allowed these hospitals to add 25% more beds by invoking the natural calamity or disaster clause in the Delhi Nursing Home Rules 2011.Delhi reported 508 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the count to 13,418. According to the health bulletin, 30 more deaths were added to the death toll that now stands at 261.The new deaths appeared to have taken place more than 24 hours ago and added to the Covid fatality tally after reviews.“It has been found that in the recent past majority of the beds earmarked for Covid-19 patients in dedicated private hospitals are occupied at any given time. Therefore, there is a need to increase the number of beds dedicated for Covid-19 patients in the private hospitals in the city,” the order, issued by director general of health services Dr Nutan Mundeja, said.The 117 hospitals will be allowed to bill Covid-19 patients as per their rates. But for the extra 25% beds allowed, they can charge non-Covid-19 patients only 50% of the treatment cost in the most economic category.“The billing of non-Covid patients admitted on extra beds shall not be more than 50% of the lowest economy category of the concerned hospital as per earlier practice during upsurge of cases of vector-borne diseases,” the order read.During the 2015 dengue outbreak in the city, when almost 16,000 were infected and 60 people died, the Delhi government had in a similar manner asked private hospitals to reserve beds for the treatment of dengue patients.“An increase in the number of cases in the city is likely, but even if there is a surge, the administration and the health teams in Delhi are prepared to handle it,” said Dr SK Sarin, director of Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences and chairperson of a five-member committee set up by the government in March to guide the chief minister on preparedness measures.Reacting to the government directive, Dr Sanjay Mehta,head of medical services, BLK Super Specialty Hospital, said there was no question of not abiding by it.“I haven’t seen the order yet but if there is a directive we will abide by it. Even though we are not a dedicated Covid hospital but as a responsible organisation, we have taken steps keeping patient and staff safety in mind such as first-level triaging, separate wards for clinically suspect cases, etc. 20% is a huge number so we will have to arrange for manpower, etc., as you cannot mix the staff, which can be harmful for patient safety,” he said.While large hospitals are expected to cope with the rule, it could lead to feasibility concerns for smaller ones if they were to spare beds from their existing strength.“My hospital primarily offers cardiac services, and at any given time my bed capacity is 90% filled with serious cardiac patients who cannot be discharged unless fully recovered. Currently, you cannot even refer these patients anywhere as not many hospitals would be open to taking patients from other hospitals. In such a scenario, taking out 20% of my 106 beds will be difficult. It’s not that I don’t want to help the government but there’s genuine problem,” says Dr RN Kalra, medical director, Kalra Hospital.“Delhi government is working on adding more beds in the private sector next week,” said a senior official from Delhi’s health department.Eight private hospitals with a capacity of 617 beds are presently treating Covid-19 patients. Of these, Indraprastha Apollo Hospital in Jasola is at full capacity of 81 patients, according to government data. Another four of the eight hospitals, Max Smart Super-Specialty hospital in Saket, Maha Durga Charitable hospital in Model town, Fortis Shalimar Bagh and Sir Ganga Ram City hospital in Rajinder Nagar have been running at 80% capacity.Only the recently added Cygnus hospital was at 20% occupancy, Delhi’s daily health bulletin shows, but the hospital was shut down on Saturday and the patients evacuated after a fire broke out. Two other hospitals – Saroj hospital in Rohini and Khushi hospital in Dwarka – with 100 beds in total, have been designated as a Covid-19 hospitals by the Delhi government and are yet to start accepting patients, as they have only recently been designated.Apart from private ones, two Delhi government and four central government hospitals have a bed capacity scalable up to almost 4,000 beds. These hospitals on an average are running at 44% capacity, according to the data.The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) is running at about 85% capacity of around 600 beds that are presently operational, but is in the process of adding another 200 beds. “The hospital has about 500 patients and space for another 100 or so. But the capacity can be scaled up to 800 beds,” said Dr DK Sharma, medical superintendent, AIIMS.Lok Nayak, which has reserved all of its 2,000 beds for Covid-19 patients, has the highest bed capacity in a government hospital. At present, 536 people are admitted, meaning it is running at almost 27% capacity.“In March, when one of the first cases in the city was reported, nobody thought so many people would get infected. And, now with the lockdown being eased, people are on the streets, markets are open and the number of cases is likely to go up. However, even if there is a surge, the cases can be managed well if the government and the private sector work together,” said Dr GC Khilnani, chairman of PSRI Institute of Pulmonary and Critical care in New Delhi and former head of pulmonology at AIIMS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-beds-in-delhi-s-117-pvt-hospitals-to-be-reserved-for-covid-patients/story-IIOpUI6p1wXFgAzuRIXnbK.html
25-05-2020||India||For migrants’ kids, school, friends, home give way to hunger, hardship||Under a flyover near the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh (UP) border in Ghazipur, eight-year-old Guddi was trying to engage her three younger siblings in play on a hot Thursday afternoon. “Keep your hands on each other’s shoulders and make a circle. Let’s all laugh together now,” she said. Her siblings, two sisters and a brother, obeyed.Guddi’s family was among hundreds of migrant workers gathered in Ghazipur with the hope of boarding a bus for their villages. Her family is from a village in UP’s Hardoi district and had come to Delhi to work in a garment factory five years ago.Around 2pm, as a food distribution van arrived, she and other children quickly queued up to collect their share. “My mother asked me to engage my siblings until the food van arrives. They were nagging her for food. I will make them eat now,” she said.Hundreds of children of migrant workers like Guddi are on the roads with their parents, struggling to return home after losing their work during the lockdown imposed on March 25 to curb the spread of Covid-19. Braving the scorching heat, without proper food and water, they walk to the city’s borders or registration centres to enrol themselves to travel back to their villages.While parents take care of their belongings, it’s the responsibility of the children to collect food and water distributed by good samaritans and NGOs, and look after their younger siblings.According to the Delhi government’s data, as many as 410,000 migrant workers have registered to travel back to their homes. Of them, around 150,000 had already left as of Saturday. A majority of them have left aboard Shramik Special trains, with most of the trains heading to UP, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir and Jharkhand. Some have also left aboard buses arranged by the government.Unaware of what’s happening around them, some children think that they are going to their villages for a summer break. “We have walked from our room in Narela to here (Ghazipur). It’s tiring. But Baba (father) said we will have to save money for our stay in the village during the summer break. He even massaged my legs when they started aching,” said Rani, 9, a class 3 student at a municipal school in Narela. Her family was has been trying to get on a bus to Bhagalpur in Bihar.Rani’s father Deepak said he could not tell his daughter about the circumstances.“ How do I tell her that I do not have money to take an auto? We are left with only ₹2,000. My factory owner has not paid us for a month and now asked us to leave. I could not even tell her we are not going for a summer break but because of the circumstances,” he said.Some are aware of the financial hardships their families are facing. Roshan (11), a class 7 student in a government school in Bawana, is worried for his family. “My father’s employer had asked him not to come back to work. He was working in a factory there. Mother has also lost her work. We do not even have land in our village in Bhagalpur. I’ve heard my parents discussing that we will have to work on someone else’s land in the village now,” he said. His family managed to cross the Delhi-UP border earlier this week and reached Ghaziabad. From there, they boarded a bus home. “My school friends must be busy with the activities and work they get on WhatsApp from school. I also receive a message of activities and practice work every day from school. But I can’t use the phone much now to save the battery and internet for our journey. I hope we manage to collect enough money and return before school reopens,” he said.For many girls, going back to village life means “loss of freedom”. Shabana ,14, had come to Delhi in February to get admission in a government school in class 7. “My cousin convinced my parents to send me with her to study in Delhi. She (cousin) and her husband were working in a bag printing unit in Sadar Bazar. I was so happy here. For the first time in my life, I wore a pair of jeans here. It’s not allowed at home. But they have lost their jobs. I will have to go back to the village school now,” she said. She and her cousin’s family had reached Ghazipur on Thursday to board a bus for Badaun in UP.Experts said it’s worrisome that children are going through such difficulties. Nimesh Desai, director of the Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences, said the institute’s staff has been interacting with migrant families and their children in the backdrop of the pandemic. “It’s worrying to see children taking the role of adults. They are not only taking care of their siblings but also their parents. Many studies have shown children have more resilience than adults. If a natural setting is provided to them at the earliest, there is a possibility these hardships won’t affect them psychologically. But if it lasts for a long time, there is reason to be worried,” he said. Authorities at government and municipality schools have flagged concerns about children dropping out . “It’s very difficult to contact many of these kids who have left for their states. We tried to provide them academic help before the summer vacations were announced, but could not reach out to many. We don’t know where they are and if they will come back,” said Vibha Singh, principal of a municipal school in east Delhi.Ranjana Prasad, a member of the Delhi Commission for Protection of Children Rights (DCPCR), said it’s too early to predict if the reverse migration will lead to dropouts in schools. “We still don’t know when schools will reopen. It’s possible most migrant families will return when things settle, since there are fewer work opportunities in the villages and a scarcity of schools,” Prasad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-migrants-kids-school-friends-home-give-way-to-hunger-hardship/story-CNuDyEBRavfcLxqqRpfRIN.html
25-05-2020||India||‘States will need permission to hire workers from UP’: CM Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said his government will lay down stringent conditions for ensuring social security of workers from UP who are hired by other states. Other states will also need to seek permission from his government before engaging workers from UP, he said.“If any state wants manpower, the state government will have to guarantee social security and insurance of the workers. Without our permission they will not be able to take our people…because of the way they were treated in some states,” he said in an interaction with journalists through video conferencing.The CM said all migrant workers who have returned to the state were being registered and their skills mapped by his administration. Any state or entity interested in hiring them will need to take care of their social, legal and monetary rights.Adityanath also asked called for the creation of a migration commission that will look into various factors related to the rights of migrant workers and ensure they aren’t exploited.Prof Amitabh Kundu, distinguished fellow at the New Delhi-based think tank Research and Information System for Developing Countries, said requiring government permission for employing people could face a legal challenge as the Constitution guarantees the freedom of movement and residence and employment of workers.“Article 19 (1)(D) guarantees freedom to move freely, and 19(1)(e) the freedom to settled in any part of the country…so the need for permission can be legally challenged,” Prof. Kundu said.He also said the demand for labour in the southern states outstrips the employment avenues in UP. “UP does not have the capacity to absorb all the returnees, as the population growth is higher than the national average,” he said.Out-of-work migrant workers who are returning to the state has emerged as a big challenge for the government. Though the UP CM was among the first to send buses to bring back stranded workers and students, which out pressure on other state to follow suit; the government was criticised for not providing organised transport to the workers during the lockdown, which forced thousands to walk.Acknowledging that workers trying to get back home on foot was a big challenge, Adityanath said once the government had made arrangements for buses, it had to also face a second challenge of screening and quarantining the returnees.He said state ministers were divided into groups to make policies. “ One committee was assigned to look for policies for livelihood options for workers in urban and rural areas...Second committee was to deal with business sector; to provide for the workers, and the chief secretary was tasked to coordinate with the Centre and other states,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-will-need-permission-to-hire-workers-from-up-cm-adityanath/story-jwGCUoZevZ0FrqzNC3XrAK.html
25-05-2020||India||This is what you call a hug curtain and it’s going viral!||Amid the lockdown, Paige, a10-year old girl from California created a plastic curtain with arm slots so that she could hug her grandparents while quarantined! The girl, whose mom Lindsay Orkay works as a nurse, had self isolated herself from her daughter. Paige spent hours to complete the so-called hug curtain created using shower curtains, a hot glue gun and disposable plates. She said she got her inspiration after watching a video of someone making a blanket to hug their family members.”She came up with the idea, she laid it out in the family room and spent multiple hours working on it,” Paige’s mother, Lindsay Okray, told a news website, KABC. In times like these when we need our family most, many providing essential services are away. Paige’s hug curtain went viral on social media, and netizens praised her for a coming up with such a lovely idea to make her grandparents feel loved. Closer home, essential workers say it was a bittersweet feeling to be away from loved ones, and they craved for their touch. “I was happy to serve the nation and sad to be away from family physically. I had been working in the hospital for a week continuously. When I came home, my daughter ran towards me and I had to move away. Tears welled up in my eyes but to keep her safe, I had to be away,” says Priya Suresh, a nurse employed with a Noida hospital.Similarly, when a police officer comes back home after his/her duty, they have to quarantine themselves from their family. Recently, a moving image of a police officer sitting outside his home and eating went viral. In the picture, his daughter stood at the door gazing at him as he ate.Until a week ago, Monika Bhardwaj, DCP North Delhi, had to hide herself from her little daughters to avoid all physical contact. “I have twin daughters who are just 3-years-old, they couldn’t understand why they couldn’t meet me. ‘Mumma ke sath keeda ata hai (an insect comes along with mom) is what we used to tell them but they still wanted to be with me. So I hid from them. Initially, erratic work hours and new challenges made life very stressful. Playing with my kids is always a stress buster but I couldn’t even do that,” shares Monika Bhardwaj, DCP North Delhi.The police officer says that many of her colleagues didn’t even go home and stayed away from family as they were involved in ground work amid the coronavirus outbreak. “That’s how it is for us, but then our commitment to duty comes first,” she says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-is-what-you-call-a-hug-curtain-and-it-s-going-viral/story-9hsCN1ZQnfxCWYePyfkhJI.html
25-05-2020||India||67% of India’s total Covid-19 cases come from 4 states: A look at state-wise coronavirus numbers||India reported another steep single-day surge in Covid-19 cases with 6,767 new infections. With this, India’s coronavirus tally jumped to 131,868 on Sunday. India’s coronavirus death toll stands at 3,867 fatalities while more than 54,000 patients have recovered from the disease across the country. The big 4 Covid-19 states - Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Delhi - continue to struggle with a surge in Covid-19 cases. Together, these four states account for over 67% of the total number of cases in India. Here’s taking a look at Covid-19 state-wise tallyThe big 4Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra crossed the 47,000 on Sunday with 47,190 patients. The state has recorded 1,577 deaths so far, highest in the country, while over 13,000 patients (13,404) have recovered from Covid-19. Tamil Nadu has the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. The state has reported 15,512 coronavirus cases so far while 7,491 people have recovered and 103 patients have died.The Covid-19 tally in Gujarat stands at 13,664 - third highest in the country. Gujarat has seen 6,169 people recover from coronavirus while 829 people have died.In Delhi, the Covid-19 has jumped to 12,910. Two hundred and thirty-one people have died from the infection here while 6,267 have made a recovery.Also read: India now has infrastructure to treat 10 lakh Covid-19 patientsStates with over 5,000 casesRajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh are the states where the coronavirus cases have breached the 5,000-mark and are rapidly inching towards 10,000. Coronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 6,742 on Sunday. The state has reported 160 fatalities while 3,786 patients have recovered from the infection in the state.In Madhya Pradesh, as many as 6,371 people been infected from Covid-19 till date. Two hundred and eighty-one people have died from Covid-19 in the state while 3,267 have recovered.The number of Covid-19 positive cases have jumped to 6,017 in Uttar Pradesh. While 3,406 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 155 have died from the infection here.Situation in other statesWest Bengal is a state where coronavirus cases have breached the 3,000-mark and are rapidly rising. The number of infected cases in West Bengal reached 3,459 on Sunday. There have been 269 deaths and 1,281 recoveries in the state.States like Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Odisha, Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Haryana and Bihar have reported over 1,000 but less than 3,000 Covid-19 cases till date. States like Kerala, Jharkhand, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Tripura have reported under 1,000 Covid-19 cases. Goa, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Puducherry, Meghalaya, Manipur have less than 100 Covid-19 cases. States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Dadar Nagar Havel, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram. All patients in Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram have recovered. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/67-of-india-s-total-covid-19-cases-come-from-four-states-a-look-at-state-wise-coronavirus-numbers/story-RD6NOFV5ZgocYmXhLwsVfK.html
25-05-2020||India||Chhattisgarh HC chief justice steps in to send stranded medical students home||Sixty-one medical and nursing students are on their way home to Kerala from Raipur, thanks to the intervention of Chhattisgarh high court chief justice PR Ramachandra Menon.The students began their journey on Friday in three special buses arranged by the Chhattisgarh government after Menon sought the administration’s help to get the students home.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe students from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Raipur were stranded due to the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown after regular classes were suspended on March 15.They wanted to return to Kerala after the Central government on April 29 issued guidelines permitting inter-state travel of students to their hometowns. But the lack of transport to Kerala turned out to be a roadblock for the students. A few of them contacted Supreme Court advocate Haris Beeran, who sent an email to Menon, highlighting the issue and seeking his help.“I have been informed that there are students from Kerala who are stranded and would like to return to their hometown,” Beeran said in his email.Beeran said the students had registered with the Kerala government’s website but nobody from that state had contacted them.“It has also been informed to them that there are trains running from Delhi and Punjab, which are transporting stranded students to Kerala. Since the route of these trains do not permit them to pass through Chhattisgarh, they have no other option but to seek assistance from the government of Chhattisgarh and the state government will have to take some measures to transport these stranded and helpless students back to their state,” the email said.Menon, who hails from Kerala, conveyed the situation to the state government through advocate general Satish Chandra Verma.The three buses carrying the students are expected to arrive in Kerala on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-hc-intervenes-to-send-stranded-medical-students-home/story-7uvYra4JrAph6MwZNLYitM.html
25-05-2020||India||Cases cross 44,000 in Maharashtra, Delhi’s death toll breaches 200-mark: Covid-19 state tally||In another single-day surge, India on Saturday reported 6,654 new Covid-19 cases, taking the national tally to a whopping 125,101. India’s coronavirus death toll stands at 3,721 fatalities while more than 50,000 patients have recovered from the disease across the country. A look at state-wise breakup of Covid-19 figures suggest that Maharashtra continues to the lead the state tally with the highest incidence of coronavirus infections - nearly one-third of the national total. Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Delhi are three other states in the country where coronavirus cases are on a rapid rise and have crossed the 10,000-mark. Also read: India records another biggest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases, tally rises to 125,101The big 4: States with over 10,000 Covid-19 casesCovid-19 cases in Maharashtra crossed the 44,000 on Saturday with 44582 patients. The state has recorded 1,517 deaths so far, highest in the country, while over 12,000 patients (12,583) have recovered from Covid-19. Mumbai alone has over 27,000 coronavirus cases. Tamil Nadu has the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. The state has reported 14,753 coronavirus cases so far while 7,128 people have recovered and 98 patients have died.The Covid-19 tally in the state, as per the Ministry of Health, stands at 13,268 - third highest in the country. Gujarat has seen 5,880 people recover from coronavirus while 802 people have died.In the national capital, the Covid-19 has jumped to 12,319. Two hundred and eight people have died from the infection here while 5,897 have made a recovery.Also read: Curbs during lockdown averted up to 78,000 deaths, says GovtStates with over 5,000 casesRajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh are the states where the coronavirus cases have breached the 5,000-mark and are rapidly inching towards 10,000. Coronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 6,494 on Saturday. The state has reported 153 fatalities while 3,680 patients have recovered from the infection in the state.In Madhya Pradesh, as many as 6,170 people been infected from Covid-19 till date. Two hundred and seventy-two people have died from Covid-19 in the state while 3,089 have recovered.The number of Covid-19 positive cases have jumped to 5,735 in Uttar Pradesh. While 3,238 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 152 have died from the infection here.States with over 3,000 casesThe number of infected cases in West Bengal reached 3,332 on Saturday. There have been 265 deaths and 1,221 recoveries in the state.States with over 1,000 casesStates like Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Odisha, Punjab, Bihar have reported over 1,000 but less than 3,000 Covid-19 cases till date. In Andhra Pradesh, coronavirus cases are rapidly inching toward the 3,000-mark. The state has witnessed 2,709 positive Covid-19 patients and 1,763 cases of recovery. Fifty-five people have died of coronavirus here.As many as 1, 761 people have been infected from coronavirus in Telangana till date. Thousand and forty-three people have made a recovery from the virus while 45 people have died from Covid-19.In Punjab, the coronavirus tally jumped to 2,029 on Saturday. While 39 people have died here, 1,847 patients have recovered. Bihar, on the other hand, has reported 2,177 cases of coronavirus till date. Eleven people have died while 629 patients have recovered. Karnataka has recorded 1,743 Covid-19 cases. As many as 597 people have been cured and discharged while forty-one patients have died. The union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rise to 1,489. Twenty people have died from the infection while 720 have been were cured.Odisha has 1,189 Covid-19 positive patients, 436 have recovered while seven people have died. Haryana has reported 1,067 coronavirus cases so far. Sixteen people have died from Covid-19 in Haryana while 706 people have recovered from Covid-19 in the state.States with under 1,000 casesKerala reported 732 coronavirus cases on Saturday. Four people have died due to coronavirus in the state while 512 people have successfully recovered from the disease. In Jharkhand, the coronavirus cases have jumped to 308, three patients have died and 136 have recovered.The North-Eastern state of Assam has reported 259 Covid-19 cases. Four people have died due to coronavirus here while 54 people have recovered. Over 200 people (218) have contracted the Covid-19 disease here. While 178 have recovered, three have died. In Chhattisgarh, 172 people have tested positive for coronavirus. The number of Covid-19 recoveries in the state has risen 62 while no death has been reported. One hundred and twenty-three people have been infected by coronavirus Uttarakhand till date. Fifty-six patients have recovered from the infection, one patient has died.In Himachal Pradesh, 168 people have contracted Covid-19. Three patients have died and 59 have recovered. Coronavirus cases in Goa have gone up to 54. As many as 16 people have recovered from the deadly contagion here. The Union territory has witnessed 44 cases of coronavirus of which 43 people have recovered. All 33 coronavirus cases reported in Andaman and Nicobar Islands have recovered. No deaths have been reported here. Puducherry has reported 26 cases of coronavirus. Ten have recovered, no deaths have been reported.The North-East state of Meghalaya has reported 14 cases and one Covid-19 death so far, 12 patients have recovered. In Manipur, 26 cases of coronavirus have been reported, two patients have recovered while in Tripura, Covid-19 cases have zoomed to 175. One hundred and fifty-two patients have recovered from coronavirus here.States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Dadar Nagar Havel, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram. All patients in Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram have recovered. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cases-cross-44-000-in-maharashtra-delhi-s-death-toll-breaches-200-mark-covid-19-state-tally/story-ulV6eBvGOorXmkgC4NUbOI.html
25-05-2020||Today's||Migrants are back home. Creating jobs for them is next challenge | Opinion||India under lockdown 4.0 has taken a series of steps to move towards normalcy. Although the number of confirmed coronavirus cases has risen sharply to more than 1.32 lakh and deaths are touching the 4,000-mark, state governments and district authorities have been tasked to open up shops, let industrial operations begin and allow movement of people with restrictions in accordance with the prevailing coronavirus infections in the area. Things are, by and large, limping back to normalcy but people are still hesitant to venture out due to fear of contracting the coronavirus disease.It is expected that things will improve after some time. The central government has prudently decided to start railway and air services. These steps are necessary to give confidence to the people to resume their normal lives.The number of Covid-19 infections in India are largely concentrated in states such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Delhi. These states account for 67% of the 1.31 lakh cases. According to Union Health Ministry data, Maharashtra with 47,190 cases and 1577 deaths tops the list followed by Tamil Nadu with 15,512 cases. Compare these numbers with that of Uttar Pradesh which, population wise, has nearly twice the population of Maharashtra, but has 6,017 coronavirus cases and 155 deaths. As per the official reports, 3,406 people out of the 6,017 infected people have recovered and more than 90% of the remaining people are also on the road of recovery. Some other states have also shown significantly better performance in controlling the spread of coronavirus. Remember that a large swathe of population of Uttar Pradesh resides in the neighborhood of Delhi. But still the state could manage to isolate itself from the spread of the virus. Ghaziabad, which shares a long boundary with Delhi, recorded very few cases as compared to the national capital.Kerala is another state that succeeded in containing the spread of virus early. It helped that it has one of the best human development index in our country, a good health services infrastructure, a fully literate population and so on.Uttar Pradesh had none of these advantages. Its health-related infrastructure, at best, can be rated as average, literacy levels below the national average and has the maximum number of poor people to look after. Despite these adverse factors, its performance in dealing with this pandemic is praiseworthy. Certainly, no one has a magic wand but to follow the guidelines issued from time to time by the Government of India to control the disease.It can be inferred safely that those states who strictly followed the standard operating procedures succeeded in containing the spread of the virus. Uttar Pradesh was one of the states which went about its business professionally with hands on policy and daily monitoring and ensured implementation of the relevant guidelines with vigour. The strict implementation of the lockdown guidelines at times, did cause inconvenience to people but it seems to be paying off, so far.Now Uttar Pradesh and other states such as Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa and West Bengal have to face the bigger challenge of handling the lakhs and lakhs of labourers who have returned to their homes and are still coming back in droves. Due to this, there has been a noticeable spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh and other states. Again, the states who show the will to follow the laid-down guidelines in this regard stand a better chance of containing the spread of the virus. So far that seems to be the case in Uttar Pradesh, where the state machinery has set in motion the protocol to quarantine them and test all those showing any symptom of the coronavirus disease. It is also noteworthy that during the lockdown, Uttar Pradesh, whose mainstay is agriculture, ensured that agriculture operations, mandis, and other related operations continued with social distancing norms. This kept nearly 70% of the population safe and engaged.But the bigger challenge awaits states such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Orissa etc. These lakhs of migrant labourers will have to be provided with productive jobs at the earliest. The rural job guarantee scheme MGNREGA is not going to help the situation. Our experience of nearly four decades in implementing such programmes on the ground tells us that they have outlived their utility a long time ago. Time has come to have a fresh look at how to create employment opportunities for all those who have had to leave their homes in search of employment and go to other states. Mere slogans are not going to help us solve this serious issue of widespread unemployment staring at us. This is the most pressing problem today and we need to fix the problem expeditiously. Tomorrow may be too late.(VS Pandey is a retired Uttar Pradesh cadre IAS officer and retired as secretary to the Government of India)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/migrants-are-back-home-creating-jobs-for-them-is-next-challenge-opinion/story-KrneZCcKnshU8Cc8qoOxvO.html
25-05-2020||Editorials||Dealing with the heatwave: It is a mistake to underestimate its impact||On Monday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that heatwave conditions are very likely to continue in Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, east Madhya Pradesh and Vidarbha till May 28. Heatwave conditions, it added, is also likely in isolated pockets in Punjab, Chhattisgarh, interior Odisha, Gujarat, Madhya Maharashtra, Marathawada, interior Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Bihar and Jharkhand during the next two to three days. In the plains, a heatwave is declared if the maximum temperature of a station reaches at least 40°C or more. In the last few years, heatwaves have emerged as a major severe-weather event in India. Twenty-three states were affected in 2019, up from 19 in 2018. The number of heatwave days in a year and its severity is expected to increase in the future, thanks to the climate crisis.In India, more than 6,000 people have died because of heatwaves since 2010. The maximum number of deaths in the last decade was in 2015, when 2,040 people died. However, data does not capture the actual number of deaths due to heatwaves. This is because while deaths due to heat-stroke and heat exhaustion are recorded, overheating of a human body can also can lead to organ failure, stroke, and cardiac arrest. These are seldom recorded as heatwave deaths. The National Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the National Policy on Disaster Management, 2009, also don’t have heatwaves in the list of natural calamities though they are the third biggest natural cause of deaths. The NDMA has a Heat Action Plan that provides a framework to states for the implementation, coordination and evaluation of extreme heat-response activities. The plan outlines strategies such as establishing an early warning system; training health care professionals; improving community outreach to alert people; setting up temporary shelters, and improving water delivery systems. Cities such as Surat and Bhubaneswar have implemented many of the guidelines, but most states are lagging. This year, heatwaves have started when states are busy tackling the coronavirus pandemic, the migrant crisis, and few even have the locust attack to deal with. These concurrent disasters (we could see more such situations in the future) have put pressure on the state machinery. But states have no choice; they must implement the NDMA guidelines to save lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/dealing-with-the-heatwave-it-is-a-mistake-to-underestimate-its-impact/story-DUGYggJPYHCI16MXuzyFTO.html
25-05-2020||Editorials||Make the OCI regime more liberal||Overseas Citizens of India (OCIs) are being slowly allowed to return to their country of origin. Following the pandemic-induced entry ban placed on OCI holders, there should be some introspection on the future of OCIs. “Overseas citizen” was always a misnomer as a holder did not have a status anything close to citizenship. They did not carry Indian passports, had no political rights, and faced restrictions such as being disallowed to buy agricultural land. The fate of OCI holders has made it clear that this is just a long-term visa with minor economic benefits grafted on, a travelling convenience, but not much more. The OCI regime needs to be reformed so that it fulfils the promise of its name. Many of the economic restrictions on an OCI holder make little sense in an age when India is chasing foreign capital and investment. Holders should have the same financial and commercial freedoms enjoyed by an Indian citizen. More ambitiously, a pathway should be laid out with the idea of making OCI the basis for genuine dual citizenship. Given the size of the Indian diaspora, their economic and technological contribution, and the government’s embrace of ethnic nationalism, this should be a natural policy progression. The Citizenship (Amendment) Act has normalised the principle of prioritised immigration. Dual citizenship can be initially negotiated with certain countries and weighted in favour of those with educational or economic qualifications. Over time, as India becomes more comfortable with the idea, it should be expanded and treated as a natural component. The OCI system is at the crossroads. It needs to either change its name to fit its present status as a glorified visa or become a precursor to a passport bridge between India and its friends.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/make-the-oci-regime-more-liberal/story-pZh7l8tKbko6mJb2U3XoNN.html
