26-05-2020||News||Needed: A fellowship of countries to fight Covid-19 | Opinion||“One ring to rule them all, One ring to find them, One ring to bring them all and in the darkness bind them”.In JRR Tolkien’s story Lord of the Rings, a “Fellowship of the Ring” was formed to destroy the one ring and its evil powers. The fellowship comprised of representatives of different races of Tolkien’s middle earth: Hobbits, wizards, elves, dwarves and men, who were united in their quest, despite their differences. Tolkien’s remarkable story is about how they succeed by acting together.The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is clearly the ring binding humanity in its darkness. Sadly, however, there is no fellowship in sight. On the contrary, the dark powers of the ring appear to be dividing countries more than ever before, with increasing protectionism and the decline of globalisation.The 73rd World Health Assembly of the World Health Organization (WHO), at its virtual meeting on May 18-19, adopted a resolution that recognised the unprecedented challenges posed by the pandemic, and called for “equitable access to and fair distribution of” all essential health technologies and products to combat the virus. It also recognised that extensive immunisation against Covid-19 is a “global public good”. Ahead of the World Health Assembly, more than 140 world leaders and experts made an unprecedented call that all vaccines, treatments and tests be patent-free, mass-produced, distributed fairly and made available to all people, in all countries, free of charge. The WHO assembly, however, failed to achieve consensus on ensuring how this “global public good” of extensive immunisation will be achieved. The WHO Assembly was preceded by a United Nations General Assembly resolution emphasising on the need for “equitable, efficient and timely” access to any future vaccines developed to fight the coronavirus, as well as a virtual meeting of G20 countries which emphasised that people’s health and well-being are at the heart of all decisions taken to protect lives, tackle illness and strengthen global health security. None of these initiatives, however, addressed how equitable access to medicines or vaccines for addressing Covid-19 can be achieved. India and the United States (US) were nowhere to be seen in the May 4 virtual summit, co-organised by the European Union (EU), Britain, Norway, Saudi Arabia, Japan, Canada, South Africa and several other countries and non-governmental organisations which collectively pledged $8 billion to research, manufacture and distribute possible vaccines and treatments for Covid-19. The geopolitical tensions between the US and China are threatening any coordinated multilateral response, as well as the continued existence of multilateral institutions which are central to a global effort to find a vaccine. President Donald Trump has announced a freeze on funding to WHO, on the allegations of mismanagement of the Covid-19 pandemic and bias towards China. There are also calls in the US to abolish the World Trade Organization (WTO) whose role in enforcing trade rules have in any event been rendered ineffective by US actions to scuttle the WTO’s appellate body. The US government’s Operation Warp Speed (a partnership between private pharmaceutical companies, government agencies and the military) is focused on the availability of a vaccine, but only for the US while Chinese biotech companies are engaged in similar efforts with their government and the Peoples’ Liberation Army. Outrage from the French government and the EU has reportedly resulted in the French pharmaceutical company Sanofi withdrawing its plan to give the US priority access to its potential Covid-19 vaccine. Reports on the EU-supported May 4 virtual initiative quote EU officials as stating that while pharmaceutical companies that receive the funding will not be asked to forgo Intellectual Property Rights on the new vaccine and treatments, they should commit to making them available worldwide at affordable prices. This hortatory statement, however, falls flat in the absence of a definitive plan of action necessary to address equitable access. Who will own, who will have access and on what terms, to the medicines and vaccines that are being developed — this lies at the heart of any real and effective solution to tackle Covid-19. Patents, rights over test data, and know-how, are important economic mechanisms for incentivising innovation and development of new technologies. While dealing with a pandemic of such large dimensions, however, there is a crucial need to balance private profit and the larger public good. In the mid-20th century, both inventors of the polio vaccines — Jonas Salk and Albert Sabin — declined to patent their inventions, an act which ensured widespread access and near-eradication of polio worldwide. This stood in stark contrast with one of the largest lawsuits in 1998, when 39 pharmaceutical companies sued South Africa, alleging patent violations resulting from it importing cheaper anti-AIDS drugs and other medicines. While public pressure led to the lawsuit being dropped after three years, it exemplified the complexities and significant litigation risks that can accompany any effort to implement affordable access to patented medicines.Covid-19 needs an innovative solution, and this is necessary at the stage of research and development and clinical trials, rather than something which can be addressed after a cure is found. The virus has bound our globally interconnected world like no other, and the utility of any vaccine to fight it can succeed only if there is rapid universal access to the cure. That can happen only if governments across the world develop a pragmatic approach that recognises and rewards innovators, while ensuring that access to the innovation is held in trust for the benefit of humankind. We urgently need a fellowship of countries that can fight off, arguably, the 21st century’s greatest challenge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/needed-a-fellowship-of-countries-to-fight-covid-19/story-9vnzXx8cMWL6k4zMUx8nqM.html
26-05-2020||News||Unless operational constraints for firms are removed, amending labour laws won’t work||The impact of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and the associated lockdown in India on firms, workers and employment has been devastating in many ways. From migrants desperately trying to get back home to small businesses and their workers struggling to keep afloat, the true economic effects of the pandemic are only starting to materialise. As policymakers weigh their options on reviving the economy after the lockdown, they face crucial questions on how to stimulate employment and encourage new business creation. Along these lines, several state governments (for example, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat) have already announced amendments to the application of their labour laws over the last month.The amendments include exempting businesses from the purview of most labour law provisions for the next three years, flexibility to increase working hours, and exemptions from labour department inspections. Labour laws have always been a contentious issue in the Indian context, with over 200 state laws and around 50 central laws governing various aspects of the employee-employer relationship, ranging from closing establishments and hiring/firing workers to payment of minimum wages and ensuring safe working conditions for workers.While these amendments come with the prospect of stimulating labour demand, one needs to be cautious that such a drastic dismantling of labour laws does not turn counterproductive. There are conflicting views among economists on the effects of easing labour regulations in India, on job creation and growth. On the one hand, while some research suggests that relaxing these laws (especially in the early 1990s) did lead to more employment and output, others have argued that, in fact, labour laws have not changed much on paper, but their enforcement has been substantially relaxed in practice.What does the latest data have to say on this? According to the World Bank Enterprise Survey for India 2014, less than 5% of surveyed firms actually reported labour regulations as being the biggest obstacle for their business. In comparison, a larger proportion of firms reported corruption (19.9%), availability of electricity (15.3%), tax rates (13%), and access to finance (11.7%) as important obstacles. These also echo the opinions of leading Indian industrialists (such as Rajiv Bajaj, Azim Premji and others) who argue that these “draconian” labour laws are actually not the constraints that are holding back firms. Therefore, relaxing these laws especially after a lockdown might, in fact, further exploit the already vulnerable migrant and temporary contract workers. Moreover, with growing research evidence (from J-PAL, Good Business Lab and others) that links increased worker welfare to improved hiring and job retention, these amendments might negatively affect firm profitability in general over the long-run.It is also unclear whether these labour law exemptions for the next two-to-three years would encourage new business creation. First, in contrast to the labour-related issues, the costs of starting up and formalising businesses in India are very high. The World Bank’s ease of doing business 2020 report ranks India at 136 out of 190 countries in the ease of starting a business and 154/190 in registering property. Consequently, businesses remain undocumented and informal, making it even harder for current and future policies to benefit them. Second, the courts are extremely congested and slow, with India currently ranking 163/190 in enforcing contracts. Finally, land-related issues have remained another major impediment for the entry of large firms, with many recent cases such as Saudi Aramco facing delays in acquisition. Streamlining and expediting these processes should be prioritised first to encourage new business creation.More important, demands for better working conditions will only increase in a post-Covid-19 world where worker safety and social distancing measures become the norm. As multinationals become more vigilant and demand high labour standards, lack of appropriate worker protection policies, coupled with existing inefficiencies of entering the Indian market might further discourage foreign investment that seeks less reliance on China.To sum up, temporary changes to labour laws and those that impact worker safety, protection and well-being in particular, can at best result in short-term benefits to firms. Without resolving the actual constraints faced by firms, both entrepreneurs and workers stand to lose in the long-run. The lockdown has presented unprecedented challenges to policymakers in tackling the disruption of labour markets. In order to have long-run effects, researches from across the world suggest that labour market reforms must be developed in consultation with both firms and workers. As governments decide on policies to revive the economy, striking a balance between protecting the vulnerable workforce, while mitigating actual operational constraints for firms, should be the way forward.Ritam Chaurey is assistant professor, Johns Hopkins SAIS, and Gaurav Chiplunkar is assistant professor, Darden Business School, University of VirginiaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/unless-operational-constraints-for-firms-are-removed-amending-labour-laws-won-t-work/story-PI5CMzHyM12P3CO5b54w2L.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||HT explainer: Are Chandigarh schools within their rights to charge tuition fees||As parents of students in at least five Chandigarh schools protest against charging of tuition fees given the Covid-19 lockdown and suspension of classes, the institutes insist on being paid to cover expenses, including staff salaries, even as the UT education department refuses to mediate between the two, having recently modified its March 29 order that had deferred payment of fees. Let’s find out what exactly is going on over here.Why are parents protesting?The parents’ protest started last week after the education department, on May 18, allowed the schools to charge tuition fees every month. Paying fees during the Covid-19 lockdown with most offices closed and businesses shut down is impossible, say parents. They say they are willing to pay only the tuition fee as directed by the administration, but allege that schools have started asking for consolidated fees, with some even demanding advance payment of three months.What do schools say?The Independent Schools Association (ISA), which represents private schools, says around 50 institutes out of 70 will not be able to pay staff salaries if they don’t charge fees. HS Mamik, chairman, ISA, says schools are ‘not-for-profit’ bodies and they cannot sustain without fees. Besides, online classes are continuing even as schools have to pay property tax, electricity and water bills and transportation charges to contractors.Can UT regulate fees?Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director, school education, says under unprecedented circumstances such as the Covid-19 outbreak, the education department can regulate how and how much schools can charge fees. The Punjab Educational Institutions Fee Regulation Act, 2018 confers powers on the UT education department as a fee-regulatory authority to check profiteering among schools. Invoking the same Act, the UT education department asked schools to upload their balance sheets online, which a majority of institutes did not comply with at first. The regulatory body also has not been able to audit school fee in government and private schools in the last two years.Could UT have intervened?The education department could have intervened as a regulatory body. Advocate Pankaj Chandgothia, who has filed a public interest litigation in the Punjab and Haryana high court, says the education department failed to act on multiple complaints by parents in March and April against schools. Also, before allowing collection of fee on March 18, it (department) should have examined the balance sheets of all the schools, which it was mandated to do as a fee regulatory body. The contention of some schools that they do not have money to pay salaries can be genuine, but the balance sheets uploaded by schools show some with surplus funds.What is the impact of HC order?The ISA challenged the March 29 order of the education department deferring payment of school fee during the lockdown, saying schools did not have the money to pay salaries to teachers. The department then modified the (March 29) order and allowed schools to charge tuition fee. The matter was disposed of by the HC as schools’ grievance stood redressed. Unless challenged by parents schools are now well within their right to charge tuition fees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-explainer-are-chandigarh-schools-within-their-rights-to-charge-tuition-fees/story-QDomhfT8SHkzBwoYAV1mNO.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||51 private schools in Chandigarh put on notice for not uploading balance sheets||In a first, 51 private schools in Chandigarh have been issued show-cause notices for not uploading their income and expenditure details on their websites.The UT education department took this step on Tuesday, while fresh protests were witnessed outside one school against fee collection amid the Covid-19 lockdown. There are 77 private schools in the city, and at least five have seen parents’ protests in the past one week.Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director school education, Chandigarh, said: “Schools have been given a week to clarify as to why should no action be taken against them. After that, the fee regulatory body will convene a meeting, and the schools will be penalised as per provisions of the Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act, 2016.”According to the Act, which was notified in Chandigarh in 2018, if any unaided educational institution contravenes its provisions, a fine of ₹60,000 to ₹4 lakh can be slapped on it depending on the number of violations and level of the school (primary, middle or secondary).The standoff between the UT education department and private schools started when the administration on March 29 directed the schools to defer the collection of fees during the lockdown period. However, schools said that they won’t be able to pay salaries to their staff unless they are allowed to collect fees. Then, invoking the Act, district education officer Alka Mehta asked schools to upload their balance sheets online.As schools resorted to non-compliance and public pressure mounted, the UT was prompted to initiate action against schools. In fact, some schools that did display their balance sheets showed a surplus running into crores. Nitin Goyal, president, Chandigarh Parents’ Association, said: “Schools are ‘not for profit’ organisations. They are given tax exemptions. Why should they conceal their balance sheets? Parents are also stakeholders, and should be aware of the institute’s income and expenditure.”HS Mamik, president, Independent Schools Association, raising “privacy concerns” said, “The department has all the balance sheets in its possession. Why does it want us to upload them on a public platform ?” Also, slamming the show-cause notices issued by the UT, Mamik said: “It is beyond my comprehension as to why the department in these difficult times has decided to move collectively against 51 schools.”Vijaya Sidhu, principal of St Soldier International School, Sector 28, where parents held a protest against collection of fee on Tuesday, did not respond to calls despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/51-private-schools-in-chandigarh-put-on-notice-for-not-uploading-balance-sheets/story-ENWrCxk8BSllxL6cCitogO.html
26-05-2020||City||Day after landing at Ludhiana airport, Air India security staffer tests positive for Covid-19||A 50-year-old Air India airport security employee tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday, a day after he landed with 10 other passengers at the Sahnewal airport in Ludhiana on a domestic flight from Delhi.Confirming the same, deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal said the infected person is a resident of Delhi, and was isolated at the civil hospital immediately, while his 10 co-passengers, whose samples were taken, had tested negative, and were placed under mandatory home quarantine.Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, out of the 116 samples, the reports of 114 samples have arrived, of which one has tested positive.The district case count stands at 181.32 RPF JAWANS DISCHARGED Meanwhile, as many as 32 railway police force (RPF) jawans who were infected by Covid-19 were discharged from the Mother and Child Hospital on Chandigarh Road on Tuesday and sent to the isolation centre of the railway station.Besides, two employees of Hindustan Tyre company and a railway employee were also discharged by the hospital authorities.According to Dr Amita Jain, senior medical officer (SMO) of the hospital, all the patients were asymptomatic and tested negative in their repeat tests.As many as 57 jawans were tested positive of COVID-19 so far, leading to the shutting down of the RPF post at the Ludhiana railway station. Presently, RPF jawans from Jalandhar were deployed on crowd control duty at Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/day-after-landing-at-ludhiana-airport-air-india-security-staffer-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-WYvtV3gzzJ9ofizPgG3mRO.html
26-05-2020||City||Lockdown tiff: Five held for stabbing man||A day after a 24-year-old Kalyan resident was stabbed to death, five people were arrested for the murder. The five accused had fled to Raigad after the crime and were arrested from there.Shadab Sheikh and his four friends were on the way to Haji Malang dargah on Monday to celebrate Eid, a group of men stopped them asking them where they were going when lockdown was in place.An argument broke out and one of the men allegedly stabbed Sheikh with a knife.Jitendra Patil, 43, Shailesh Jagtap, 31, Chetan Rai, 27, Akshay Bagade, 23, and Bablu Fernandez, 32, were arrested for the murder. They are residents of Haji Malang and had stopped Sheikh and his friends as they were crossing their village to go to Haji Malang dargah.A police officer said, “We arrested the five accused from Raigad where they were hiding. They had checked the visitors’ pockets to see if they were carrying drugs. They had an altercation which turned ugly.”Deputy commissioner of police P Shewale said, “We produced them in court and got their custody till June 2. We have seized their mobile phones and are taking statements of other people who saw them at the spot where the murder took place.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-tiff-five-held-for-stabbing-man/story-hX65kduig5sGc73ZXdEv8N.html
26-05-2020||City||Sacked banker ends life in Ludhiana, branch manager among 2 booked||Sacked from his job, a 33-year-old old private bank employee has died after jumping into the Sidhwan Canal near Doraha. Before taking the extreme step, the victim, a resident of Subhash Nagar, had recorded a video message accusing bank branch manager and gold loan in-charge for abetting his suicide and sent to his friends and family members.On Tuesday, the Sahnewal police registered an FIR against the accused and launched a manhunt for their arrest.Victim’s father said his son was working in the loan department of the bank branch in Sahnewal. He had left home on May 23 and did not return. When they received a video message from his mobile phone, they informed the police, who found his motorcycle parked near the canal in Doraha.Sahnewal station house officer (SHO) inspector Inderjit Singh said the police had fished out the body on Tuesday near Gurthali canal bridge. The victim is survived by his six-month pregnant wife. In the video, he had alleged that the accused used to misguide customers and made them invest in various ponzi schemes for commission and sent him to collect money from the market. He also alleged that after losing their money in the schemes, they used to threaten him. He said when he refused one day, the duo sacked him.The SHO said a case under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code had been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sacked-banker-ends-life-in-ludhiana-branch-manager-among-2-booked/story-IFt1OCLZWitFkKIkixTSBN.html
26-05-2020||City||Thane activist writes to CM, seeks Covid testing for social workers||A social activist in Thane has written to the chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray requesting timely Covid testing for social workers engaged in relief work in the state. Many social workers are helping migrants and labourers and are at risk of getting infected.“There are many NGOs across the state which are providing ration and food for the migrants and labourers stranded in various corners of the city. Though these volunteers are carrying their work on the field with due permission from police and following safety norms, there is a risk of getting infected. Hence, I have written to the CM, requesting free Covid-19 testing for social workers,” said Nishant Bangera, 28, founder of Muse foundation, a Thane-based NGO.According to Bangera, the request has been made for social workers engaged in distributing dry ration, cooked food, personnel protective equipment and other essential services to migrants, daily wage labourers, senior citizens, police personnel and health care workers.“While performing our duties as social workers, we also need to be healthy. The letter was written to the CM on May 19. We are awaiting a positive response soon,” added Bangera.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-activist-writes-to-cm-seeks-covid-testing-for-social-workers/story-VX7cUkQ75dgMh0QOH5gsQO.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Toddler among 4 fresh cases in hotspot Bapu Dham, Chandigarh count climbs to 279||Four fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in Bapu Dham Colony on Tuesday, taking its tally to 206 and that of Chandigarh to 279. Among those infected are three men, aged 22, 60 and 61, and a one-and-a-half-year-old boy. The congested colony accounts for 74% of the city’s total tally and all but two of 88 active cases. Nearly 30% of the cases have been reported in the past four days, even as the first infection had surfaced more than a month ago, on April 24.Meanwhile, 12 family members of a three-day-old girl, who had tested positive posthumously on Sunday, have tested negative. While the parents reside in Dadumajra, some family contacts were traced to Sector 38. Also, 29 patients, who were in the post-discharge quarantine facility at Sood Dharamshala, Sector 22, have been sent home after their reports came negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/toddler-among-4-fresh-cases-in-hotspot-bapu-dham-chandigarh-count-climbs-to-279/story-sHnqEeEndyLWM1eSS8JFLI.html
26-05-2020||Mumbai||Five wards of Mumbai see more than 100 Covid deaths||Five wards of Mumbai, which cover areas such as Kurla, Bandra (East), Mankhurd, Govandi, Andheri West, Jogeshwari, Byculla and Mumbai Central, have reported more than 100 Covid-19 related deaths each, according to the civic body’s data. However, officials of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation said while the deceased had tested positive for the virus, the death audit committee is yet to certify if the death was caused due to Covid-19 or other underlying conditions.As of Tuesday, 1,065 deaths in Mumbai have been certified as Covid-19 deaths, according to the state health department. The city saw 1,002 cases and 39 deaths on Tuesday, bringing the case count to 32,974 and toll to 1065. While the data for Tuesday for the five wards wasn’t released at the time of going to press, as of Monday, L ward (Kurla) had 154 Covid-related deaths, E ward (Byculla and Mumbai Central) had 129, K -west (Andheri West, Jogeshwari and Oshiwara) 103, M-East (Govandi) had 108 and H-East (Bandra East, Santacruz E) had 116 deaths.Padmaja Keskar, chief of the BMC’s health department, said, “Once we get the data on the number of deaths, the death audit committee scrutinises and certifies the death as Covid-19 death, after which they are reflected in the toll.”As of Monday, of the 1,026 deaths in the city, 67% had comorbidities. While 26% had diabetes, 24% hypertension; 32% both diabetes and hypertension; 8% had heart diseases, and 10% other comorbidities. The five wards accounted for around 7,800 cases by Monday. Topping the list was E Ward (1,726 cases), followed by L ward (1,689 cases), H-East (1,680 cases), K-West (1,623 cases) and M-East ward with more than 1,150 cases. The wards are densely populated, cover more areas and have a high number of slum pockets. The numbers are in contrast to G-North and G-South wards that cover areas such as Worli, Prabhadevi, Dharavi, Dadar and Mahim and have more than 3,000 cases, but less than 100 deaths.Manish Valanju, assistant municipal commissioner of L ward, said, “As per the 2011 census, the ward has a population of 9 lakh. A majority of the deceased are senior citizens or those having other ailments. We have screened 60,000 senior citizens so far and are screening more.”Another BMC official from M-East ward said, “The ward is densely populated like L Ward, and a huge chunk of population has other ailments. There have been several incidents of crowding, especially during night hours, when shopkeepers used to open shops, after which curbs were brought in.”Iqbal Chahal, BMC commissioner, on Tuesday held a video-conference where he spoke about bringing the mortality rate on a par with the national average. Chahal said, “Our mortality rate earlier was very high, but now we are working towards maintaining it close to the national average of less than two per cent. Our mortality rate currently is 3.2 per cent.”Chahal has asked the BMC officials to trace and quarantine at least 15 people in slum areas. Aneesh Makwana, BJP corporator from Andheri, said, “More and more people need to be traced and screened everywhere. Also, many are not getting beds on time, which aggravates the condition. The BMC needs to work on it, if the city is yet to hit the peak.”Dr Siddarth Paliwal, a Mumbai-based health consultant with a private hospital, said, “The number of deaths in every part of the city depends on the number of citizens that are being screened or tested there. One needs to detect patients at an early stage, considering there are several reasons behind citizens having symptoms or otherwise not coming forward.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/five-wards-of-mumbai-see-more-than-100-covid-deaths/story-GJJHFOJNJJTH1ZNtH8ZsZI.html
26-05-2020||Mumbai||5.5 lakh migrants sent back, 2 lakh on waiting list||The Mumbai Police have sent back 5.5 lakh migrants, mostly labourers, to their home state, till Tuesday. Around two lakh more are in the waiting list for inter-state travel. Pranaya Ashok, DCP (ops) and Mumbai Police spokesperson confirmed the development. Of this 5.5 lakh people, over four lakh have been sent by trains, while remaining were sent by cars and other modes of transport. Ashok said, till tomorrow morning another 1.5 lakh people will be sent back. On May 18, Hindustan Times had reported that Mumbai Police sent back 1.6 lakh migrants, and there is an urgent need for more trains, to expedite the process of sending back the stranded people. The procedure for registering migrants by Mumbai Police started on May 2. The first bus with migrants left on May 4 for Rajasthan from Mumbai. Film actor Sonu Sood too has helped several migrants reach home by arranging transport for them. Senior inspector from Versova, 6 cops from DN Nagar test positive The senior police inspector of Versova police station tested positive for Covid-19. Pravin Padwal, who holds additional charge of additional commissioner of police (west region), confirmed the development. Before this, another senior inspector from Sahar police station had tested positive. On Monday, assistant police inspector (API) from DN Nagar police station tested positive for Covid-19. So far, six policemen have tested positive for the disease, including an inspector, two assistant police inspectors, a police sub-inspector and two constables. Parameshwar Ganme, a senior police inspector from DN Nagar police station said, “Out of six personnel, two constables have been discharged from the hospital, while rest four are recuperating at a Covid care center (CCC).”81 booked, 52 arrested on Monday The Mumbai Police on Monday registered 29 FIRs against 81 people and arrested 52 of them for lockdown violations in Mumbai. A majority of 12 FIRs were for unnecessary use of vehicles, nine for gathering in one place, six for not wearing masks and two against shops for operating despite being non-essential services. A maximum of 12 FIRs were in the central region and seven in the west region. 21 cops dead, total 1,889 infected in state police Till Tuesday morning, 21 police personnel succumbed to Covid-19 with the deaths of two head constables being reported from Nashik rural. Twelve deaths have been reported from Mumbai Police, two each are reported from Pune and Solapur, three from Nashik rural and one each from Thane and Mumbai Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS). A total of 1,889 police personnel from the state police have been infected with Covid-19 till Tuesday morning. This includes 838 personnel who have recovered from it while remaining 1,031 are being treated. Out of the total 1,889, a maximum of 1,682 are constables or assistant sub-inspector (ASI) and remaining 207 are officers. (With inputs from Suraj Ojha)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/5-5-lakh-migrants-sent-back-2-lakh-on-waiting-list/story-nY7EB5fDEHgtgDfPfKREWJ.html
26-05-2020||City||‘Upset’ over troubled marriage, woman constable ends life in Ludhiana||A 29-year-old woman constable, deputed in the traffic wing of the Ludhiana police commissionerate, ended her life by consuming poisonous pills at her accommodation in the police lines here on Monday evening. Police said the victim, a resident of Dehlon, was absent from duty since May 23. Division Number 8 station house officer (SHO) inspector Jarnail Singh said the victim had separated from her husband a year go and filed for divorce. Her two children — a seven-year-old boy and a five-year-old daughter — were living with her.“After the lockdown was imposed in the city, she had sent her son to her parents’ home, while taking care of her daughter herself. While leaving for duty, she used to send her daughter to a day care centre at Hambran Road and pick her up in the evening,” said the SHO.“On Monday around 7 PM, Kamaljit called up the owner of the day care centre, asking her to save her as she had taken the extreme step. The owner called the victim’s colleague and, along with police personnel, rushed her to the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), where she died at 2am on Tuesday. The body was handed over to her parents,” said the SHO, adding that her parents told the police that she was over strained relations with her husband.The Division Number 8 police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC. The police have not found any suicide note on the body, but will scan her mobile phone and social media accounts to see if she left a note.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/upset-over-troubled-marriage-woman-constable-ends-life-in-ludhiana/story-svzuWlc7fIPJvbF204bOVL.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Change in testing strategy has led to spike in Covid-19 cases at Chandigarh’s Bapu Dham Colony||The change in testing strategy at Bapu Dham Colony in Chandigarh’s Sector 26 has led to a sharp increase in Covid-19 cases, which has prompted the authorities to shift around 142 people from the containment zone to the quarantine facility at Panjab University.Till May 22, only family contacts of infected people were being tested, while those living in the same building in this congested colony were just quarantined and sampled only if they developed symptoms.After finding fault with this strategy, as even asymptomatic contacts started testing positive, the UT administration decided to test all residents living in the same building as those found positive for infection.While between April 24 (when the first case was reported in the colony) and May 22, 147 cases had come to the fore, 59 people have tested positive in just four days (May 23-26), pointing to the administration’s failure to check the spread of infection. As on May 26, the colony accounts for 74% of the city’s 279 confirmed cases and all but two of the 88 active cases.“In some cases, even family contacts were not tested on time as they were asymptomatic. They were quarantined in their homes in the colony, which is densely populated,” said a senior official of the UT health department, while admitting that the recent spurt is on expected lines.Even though the option of institutional quarantine was available to isolate the unaffected population, the administration missed to act on time. The large-scale institutional quarantine facility was pressed into service only on May 23, where till now 142 residents have been moved.Commenting on the delay, UT adviser Manoj Parida said it is neither possible not desirable to shift the entire population from the colony, adding that the “decisions are dynamic and need-based”.“Earlier, we had isolated a few contacts of positive cases at the community centre in Sector 47 and a few other places. As we have not witnessed any big outbreak, say in thousands, we are now using it only for non-affected neighbours who have small houses,” he said. Quarantine sampled people at GMSH, GMCH: BadnoreMeanwhile, in the daily Covid-19 review meeting on Tuesday, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore expressed satisfaction over the substantial increase in testing of samples in Bapu Dham Colony. He also suggested that people whose samples have been taken can be quarantined in Government Multi Specialty, Sector 16, and Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, till their test results are received.Parida said test results of samples collected from different areas have been analysed, and necessary review of boundaries of containment zone and buffer zone will be done as per the directions received from the Centre.Badnore, too, clarified any relaxation is only possible after lapse of specific number of days from the last positive case. He also directed municipal commissioner KK Yadav to ensure regular sanitisation of containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/change-in-testing-strategy-has-led-to-spike-in-covid-19-cases-at-chandigarh-s-bapu-dham-colony/story-I3i7APatCe5Y4VOBAVQzBP.html
26-05-2020||Mumbai||Lockdown, Sanitizer and LavKush: Cama Hospital’s newborns||Three babies born to Covid-infected mothers at Cama Hospital were given very unique names —Lockdown, Sanitizer, and LavKush. The postnatal Covid ward at the government-run hospital erupted with laughter on Tuesday, when medical staffers got to know about the names. One of the boys has been named Lockdown while a girl was given the name Sanitizer. Another boy child has been named after the mythological characters Lav and Kush – sons of Lord Ram and Sita. The child’s parents have used the national lockdown as a metaphor for the divine couple’s exile from Ayodhya and the birth of their children.“I was strolling around the hospital on my duty when I heard laughter in the corridor. When I asked, the three couples informed us about their decision to name their babies based on the Covid pandemic,” said Dr Aparna Hegde, head of the division of urogynecology at Cama Hospital. These are not the first parents to take inspiration from the Covid-19 outbreak. In the first week of April, a couple in Chhattisgarh named their newborn twins Corona and Covid. In the last week of April, a couple from Uttar Pradesh named their child Lockdown. Since the outbreak of the virus in Mumbai, over 400 babies have born to infected mothers. BYL Nair and Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital (Sion hospital) recorded delivery of over 100 healthy uninfected babies from Covid positive mothers.“It’s a tough situation for couples who are expecting. The trend of naming their newborns after the pandemic was also seen in China. It’s actually like a souvenir for the parents to remind them how they fought with the deadly virus and won against it for their children,” said Dr Sagar Mundada, a city psychiatrist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lockdown-sanitizer-and-lavkush-cama-hospital-s-newborns/story-SdINCEWlpvMOhY7D5qsABJ.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Stuck in India due to lockdown, 179 Pak nationals to return via Wagah today||As many as 179 Pakistan nationals, who were stranded in various part of India due to the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the coronavirus, will return home through the Attari-Wagah border on Wednesday. This is the fifth batch of citizens from the neighbouring country whose repatriation is being facilitated by the ministry of external affairs on the request of the Pakistan High Commission since the lockdown came into force. These people, including Hindus who had come to India to meet their relatives and on pilgrimage visas, will be allowed to cross over to Pakistan after conducting their thermal screening. Of these, 10 were stranded in Gujarat, 36 in Maharashtra, 40 in Madhya Pradesh, 47 in Chhattisgarh, 12 in Delhi, 2 in Punjab, 14 in Rajasthan, 2 in Uttarakhand and 16 in Utter Pradesh. On Tuesday, 23 of them reached Amritsar by air from Gujarat, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. “I along with my friend had come to Surat (Gujarat) to meet our friends and relatives on March 12. Our visa was for one month. After the borders were closed due to the pandemic, we got stuck. Now, we are thankful to the Indian government for facilitating our return. After around two-and-a-half months, we will be able to meet our families,” said Aun Ali (35), a resident of Karachi in Sindh province. Naresh Kumar (45), a resident of Jacobabad city in Sindh, had come to visit their relatives at Indore in MP along with his wife, son and daughter. “We came to India on March 3. We were also planning to go to Delhi and UP, but were forced to stay at our relatives’ house. We will come again once the coronavirus is gone,” he said. A senior Land Port Authority of India (LPAI) official posted at the ICP said, “They will be screened by a special team of doctors.”Earlier on May 5, as many as 193 Pakistani citizens had returned home. Nearly 300 Indians are also stranded in Pakistan and the process of their repatriation has been started, it is learnt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/stuck-in-india-due-to-lockdown-179-pak-nationals-to-return-via-wagah-today/story-gNr50SyHPYvIklSYk3QzHP.html
26-05-2020||Mumbai||KEM Hospital allows release of staffer’s body 3 days after death||The body of a class-IV employee of civic-run King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital, Parel has been lying in the morgue of the hospital for the last three days. On Tuesday, when hospital workers protested, the authorities decided to release the body as a suspected Covid victim. His family has now blamed the hospital for being negligent and not testing him earlier.The 45-year-old victim worked at KEM for the last 10 years and was posted in a Covid ward at the hospital. On May 20, he developed a fever and cold. When he informed the doctors, they allegedly did not pay heed and his condition started deteriorating. “On May 24, he started having trouble breathing and before he could reach the hospital, he died. Despite having the symptoms, the hospital didn’t admit him,” said Pradeep Narkar, secretary, Municipal Mazdoor Union.His family has blamed the hospital for being negligent. When asked if the deceased worker was provided with precautionary medicines like HCQ, his sister said, “The medicines are mainly given to permanent employees. The hospital could have saved him if they treated him on time.”As hospitals do not run Covid tests on corpses of suspected patients, authorities could not identify if the victim was Covid positive. “This confused the doctors about his cause of death. However, the hospital has now decided to release the body as a suspected Covid case. Unfortunately, his family members have also tested positive and hospitals are refusing to admit them,” Narkar said. Three employees working in the KEM Hospital morgue have also tested positive. But as alleged by hospital workers, they aren’t given timely treatment and care. “We work in close contact with Covid victims but when we develop symptoms, we aren’t given treatment. We don’t even have insurance as we are not permanent employees of the hospital,” said a hospital worker. Workers held a protest inside the hospital for five hours between 7am and 12pm on Wednesday demanding better safety measures and preventive treatment. “We have demanded treatment for infected staffers at the nearby Mahatma Gandhi Hospital if required,” said Narkar. Dr Hemant Deshmukh, KEM Hospital dean has promised to fill in the gaps and provide alternative accommodation to staffers on Covid duty. “We have discussed their complaints and listened to their concerns. We will meet their demands to provide a better working environment,” he said.25 Kasturba staff test positiveMore than 25 medical staff from Kasturba Gandhi Hospital have contracted Covid-19 through cross-transmission. Of these, 16 are class-IV employees and eight are nurses and midwives. Men working in Covid wards are more exposed to infection as they have not been provided alternative accommodation. They are forced to sleep on empty beds and in corners of the hospital. “Women staffers have been given ward 13 to stay in, but we don’t have any alternative place to reside. We can’t afford to go home as we can end up infecting our family members,” said an employee of the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kem-hospital-allows-for-release-of-suspected-covid-victim-3-days-after-death/story-cmwggzFFY4hxhoM3OIE05L.html
26-05-2020||Mumbai||Murder accused claims he is unwell, no tests done at Arthur Road jail||Murder and extortion accused Harish Rama Mandvikar in a letter to his family members on May 14 has asked his lawyers and to get an order for him to be tested for Covid-19. Mandvikar said he’s exhibiting symptoms of Covid-19 despite being kept in isolation.Mandvikar is the key accused in the 2008 murder of matka king Suresh Bhagat and has been charged with extortion and assault in more than 10 cases. He has been lodged in Arthur Road jail since February 2020. In a letter to his family, dated May 14, he alleged 10 prisoners lodged in the high security ‘anda cell’ barracks of Arthur Road jail have tested positive for Covid-19 and were quarantined in yard number 10. The ‘anda cells’ were created to house criminals in isolation. Mandvikar is in one of these cells.This is the first report of ‘anda cell’ prisoners having contracted the infection.Sunil Ramanand, additional director general of prisons, said, “Dr Rathod of Sir JJ Hospital visits Arthur Road prison almost daily. I will ask him to look into the matter.” Neither Ramanand nor inspector general of prisons Deepak Pandey responded to any other questions.In his letter, written in Marathi, Mandvikar said, “Ten people in anda cells have tested positive. I have also started feeling the symptoms. I am coughing since the past 15 days, but in jail they do not conduct the test using the kits. There are no kits available. They are just providing medicines. I have severe pain in throat.” He asked his family to get his lawyers to arrange for a Covid-19 test for him and another fellow inmate. “Tell the lawyers to obtain an order for my test and to transfer me to a private hospital and Sumeet Bhai. Both of us are not feeling well. We will not get proper treatment here. Proper treatment will be possible only at a private hospital. Don’t waste a single day. We are in major trouble,” Mandvikar wrote in his letter. He also wrote, “Inform the advocate to at least argue in court so that we can get bail for treatment. Once we are okay, we will come back to prison. Do not waste a single day as we are in trouble.”A relative of Mandvikar’s confirmed that they had received the letter. “Another relative visited Sir JJ Hospital twice to see if Harish has been admitted. But we could not find him. We are still not clear how to get in touch or arrange treatment for him,” said the relative.Advocate Prashant Gurav, who is representing Harish, said, “On May 22, a sessions court had given an order for a medical check-up, and to submit a report by May 27. I visited the jail with the roznama and application. But the jail authorities citing Covid-19 did not accept the application physically, and asked me to put the documents in the jail’s drop box.” Gurav said that they had called on a landline number of the Arthur Road prison and also sent an email but did not get a response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/murder-accused-claims-he-is-unwell-no-tests-done-at-arthur-road-jail/story-GvWgb4OHc4izwLnhEtvATO.html
26-05-2020||Mumbai||Home minister announce CID probe in Anvay Naik suicide case||State home minister Anil Deshmukh has announced criminal investigation department (CID) probe into the alleged death by suicide of entrepreneur Anvay Naik after his daughter Adnya alleged that Alibaug police did not investigate the case properly. The deceased, an architect, and his mother, Kumud, died allegedly by suicide in May 2018 over non-payment by a leading news channel against the contract given to him.Deshmukh on Tuesday announced re-investigation of the case by CID. “Adnya Naik had complained to me that #AlibaugPolice had not investigated non-payment of dues from #ArnabGoswami’s @republic which drove her entrepreneur father & grandmom to suicide in May 2018. I’ve ordered a CID re-investigation of the case. #MaharashtraGovernmentCases,” he tweeted on Tuesday. Alibaug police had registered a case after the incident. Adnya alleged the channel and its editor were responsible for the suicide of her father. She demanded a re-probe, either by the CID or crime branch and an investigation against legal officers for their role in the case, the statement released by the home minister’s office read. Deshmukh said that the state government, on May 26, decided to hand over the probe to CID and the director-general of police have been asked to act upon the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/home-minister-announce-cid-probe-in-anvay-naik-suicide-case/story-Bt1XNb6OfjRgKpUNUJnSUP.html
26-05-2020||Mumbai||Submit report on testing facilities in prisons within 2 weeks: HC to state||In an affidavit filed before Bombay high court (HC), Maharashtra prisons said that in order to house each prisoner in a space measuring 40 square feet as per the prison manual, 15,771 inmates would have to be released. The affidavit was filed on HC’s direction, responding to a plea that sought information on the health status of convicts and undertrials in state prisons. It also said three inmates have died of Covid-19 in state prisons so far.Three separate petitions, including one filed by the People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL), have sought the court’s intervention to decongest state prisons. According to the report on actions taken to contain the spread of Covid-19 in prisons, prison authorities stated that as of May 25, 8,407 inmates have either been released on parole or bail. Prisons are also functioning with half their medical staff at present. The affidavit said also three inmates were asymptomatic carriers who tested positive for Covid-19 after they passed away in May.The authorities did not specify what tests were carried out to identify Covid-positive inmates, which prompted the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice KK Tated to ask prosecutor Deepak Thakare if the inmates of Arthur Road Mumbai Central Jail who may have come in contact with the 158 who tested positive for the infection, have been tested for Covid-19. Arthur Road jail has the highest number of Covid-19 cases among the six prisons in Maharashtra that have reported Covid-positive inmates. The other prisons are in Yerwada, Taloja, Dhule, Satara and Byculla.The court also directed the state to inform relatives of those infected in Arthur Road jail of their health status. The state has been given two weeks to submit a report on testing facilities in all jails.Public prosecutor Deepak Thakare informed the bench through video conferencing that approximately 8,000 inmates out of the 37,000 currently lodged in various jails had been released on interim bail or parole. Another 14,000 would be released once concerned magistrates heard the bail applications. The division bench directed magistrates across the state to expeditiously hear interim bail applications filed by jail authorities.PUCL, represented by senior counsel Mihir Desai, informed the court that relatives and advocates of inmates were anxious as they did not know the health status of those in jail. Thakare said that arrangements for video calling were being made and in the meanwhile, inmates could speak to their family/advocate once a week over telephone.Desai also asked what initiatives have been taken by jail authorities to conduct regular Covid-19 tests among inmates.With regards to money orders for inmates, which have stopped during the lockdown, the state said jail superintendents were asked to open a bank account in their names to allow relatives to deposit money for inmates. The deposited amounts would be disbursed by the superintendents and are meant to buy essential supplies available in the jail store.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/submit-report-on-testing-facilities-in-prisons-within-2-weeks-hc-to-state/story-FF8n40eXoBgDky1Y1x0ThO.html
26-05-2020||City||Now, Panchkula has zero active Covid-19 case||With the discharge of a 44-year-old recovered Covid-19 patient from the civil hospital in Sector 6 on Tuesday, the number of active cases in the district dropped to zero. Also, no new case has been reported in the past 11 days. The last two cases were recorded on May 15, taking the total count to 25.The first positive case in Panchkula was reported on March 21, after a 38-year-old salon worker from Kharak Mangoli village had come in contact with Chandigarh’s first coronavirus patient. She was discharged on April 11.District Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajiv Narwal said the 44-year-old man of Rajiv Colony near Sector 17, was discharged on Tuesday after he tested negative for the virus. “When his sample was taken last week, he had tested positive. But his samples returned negative results on Tuesday. Consequently, he was discharged and advised home quarantine,” he said. The man, a milk vendor cum confectioner, had tested positive on May 8. His primary and secondary contacts had, however, tested negative.Narwal said samples of 39 foreign-returned persons, who were putting up at different hotels in Panchkula, had been collected and their reports were awaited. According to the health department, samples of a total of 4,231 persons have been taken so far in the district, out of which 4,123 persons tested negative, 25 were positive and results of 60 persons are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-panchkula-has-zero-active-covid-19-case/story-sOU8jctlYTMyGw9YSziACO.html
26-05-2020||Delhi||Woman, daughter thrashed by cops, two constables sent to police lines||A woman and her daughter were thrashed with batons for allegedly manhandling policemen who stopped them from constructing a shanty in north-east Delhi’s Shastri Park on Monday night, the police said.The alleged high-handedness by the policemen led to two constables being sent to police lines, which effectively puts them off active policing duties. “We have initiated an inquiry into the incident,” Ved Prakash Surya, the deputy commissioner of police (north-east) said, adding that no first information report (FIR) has been filed against either party. The baton blows and the manhandling that preceded it left the mother-daughter duo and a policeman with injuries. “All three of them received blunt injuries. They are out of danger,” the DCP said. The mother-daughter duo has been identified as Munni Devi and Soni, who live with their family in Shastri Park and work odd jobs. The DCP said that the trigger for the confrontation was a tip that the local police received about some people constructing an unauthorised shanty on government land near the Shastri Park Metro station. “Constables Sanjeev and Jaichand who were patrolling the neighbourhood visited the spot around 9pm and saw the illegal construction. When they asked the people there to stop the construction, Munni Devi and her family members began abusing them,” the DCP said. The officer said that the family didn’t stop the construction and eventually began manhandling the two constables. “They beat up constable Sanjeev and tore his uniform. He had to call his colleagues for help,” the DCP said. A video of the incident, purportedly shot by Munni’s relatives, shows two policemen raining batons on the mother-daughter duo even as other policemen appear to be failing in stopping the assault. Munni and daughter are seen falling on the road and trying to run away from the policemen who continue to chase them even as another woman in the background is heard shouting abuses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/woman-daughter-thrashed-by-cops-two-constables-sent-to-police-lines/story-sJsKl5Xdwgdlg4iItLFF5M.html
26-05-2020||City||Banquet hall owners seek relaxation in norms for social functions||Gurugram:As the business of banquet halls and tent suppliers in Gurugram has suffered badly due to the Covid-19 lockdown, the association of party lawn owners on Tuesday called on the district administration officials and submitted a memorandum demanding an increase in the number of persons allowed in social functions like wedding, which at present is 50. The association has demanded that at least 200 people should be allowed to attend a wedding function.The ongoing wedding season will end on July 15, the association members said, adding that more than 1,000 wedding functions have already been cancelled across the district in the past two months. The association said that at least 20 professions and businesses associated with the wedding industry have suffered a setback, which can only revive if the government relaxes the norm.Apart from over 100 community centres and dharamshalas, there are around 150 banquet halls and 228 registered tent houses in the district, where 30,000 weddings are conducted every year, as per the details shared by the Party Lawns Welfare Association, whose delegation called on the Gurugram deputy commissioner. The association further said that a large number of weddings and other functions are hosted by farmers and other people from April to July. “Around 1,000 wedding functions have already been cancelled and the rest of the season would also go waste, if the administration doesn’t increase the number of people allowed in wedding and other social gatherings,” said Anil Rao, president of the association, adding that the next season will start in November. Rao said that the government should consider allowing 200 to 300 people in a large banquet hall, which is spread over an acre of land. “We are ready to follow all social distancing norms, provide sanitizers, use face masks and stop buffet arrangement for food at the functions. But we need the support of government as the present norm allowing only 50 persons will end our business,” he said.The association has demanded that in June, the number of people allowed in functions should be increased to 200 and next month to 300. “If the number of people allowed in a function is not increased, then not only banquet halls but all trades associated with the industry will suffer badly,” said Ramesh Kalra, a member of the association who was part of the delegation which met the deputy commissioner.The Gurugram administration said that the matter raised by the association pertained to the state government. “This call has to be taken by the state based on the directions issued by the Union ministry of home affairs,” said Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/banquet-hall-owners-seek-relaxation-in-norms-for-social-functions/story-6UMt3JEiOYTtu2Quj9LRSO.html
26-05-2020||Gurugram||GMDA floats tenders to set up a flood control room||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has floated tenders to set up a dedicated flood control room near the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, said officials on Tuesday. Once operational, the control room will serve as a nodal centre from where necessary machines and equipment can be dispersed to waterlogged spots across the city during the monsoon.The development is important as tenders for cleaning drains in the city were only floated in the first week of May this year amid the ongoing lockdown announced to control the coronavirus outbreak. Tenders for cleaning drains in many areas are yet to be floated. Also, in light of many migrant workers returning to their home towns, work in areas where tenders have been allocated is progressing at a slow pace because of a shortage of workers, said officials.The flood control room would be established at a cost of ₹41 lakh. The deadline for submitting the final bid for the tender is June 4.Vikram Singh, executive engineer of drainage division, GMDA, said a meeting on flood preparedness would be held on Wednesday at the authority’s office wherein the exact requirements, in terms of machinery and workforce required, will be determined along with the exact location of the flood control room.“We will establish the flood control room at a location next to the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway from where both parts of the city, those located left of the e-way and those on the right can get adequate and immediate coverage. We will have similar machinery at the flood control office as last year, and will finalise the necessary equipment and workforce size in Wednesday’s meeting. Accordingly, we will ask the potential contractors to meet these requirements,” said Singh.At the flood control room set up in 2019 in Sector 53, GMDA had placed eight dewatering pump sets, four tractor-mounted suction pumps, one earthmover, two super sucker machines, 5,000 gunny bags, and deployed 10 workers who together worked 24x7 in shifts.“Last year, around 45 water logging prone spots were identified by the GMDA. At some of these spots, we have upgraded the drainage system or initiated necessary repairs, and depending on their status report, we will cut down the total number of waterlogging prone spots accordingly for this year,” Singh said. Some of the waterlogging prone spots identified by GMDA include Vatika Chowk, CH Bakhtawar Road, AIT Chowk, and Hero Honda Chowk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gmda-floats-tenders-to-set-up-a-flood-control-room/story-0tOfjlTb9gAFaaeCX4oTeN.html
26-05-2020||Delhi||Fire at footwear factory in Keshavpuram, no injuries reported||A massive fire broke out on Tuesday morning at a footwear manufacturing factory in Lawrence Road industrial area near Keshavpuram in northwest Delhi gutting raw materials worth lakhs, fire department officials and police officers said. Nobody was injured in the incident, they said.Delhi Fire Services (DFS) director Atul Garg said the fire started around 8.30am and was mostly controlled by 1.30pm, though the cooling operation went on till evening. At least 10 people were working in the four-storey factory when the fire broke out. However, they all rushed out of the factory building as soon as the blaze started, officials said. “A total of 23 fire tenders were used to douse the flames. The fire had engulfed the entire factory. Our 50 firefighters took around five hours to control the fire,” said Garg.Though the fire officials are yet to ascertain the reason behind the fire, they suspect that it may have started because of a short-circuit. The fire officials said they are still investigating if the factory had violated any fire safety norms.Divisional fire officer( west zone), Mukesh Verma, said the machines used for manufacturing footwear and some plastic materials were kept on the factory’s ground and first floor, while raw materials and the end products were stored on the remaining floors.“The staircase was also blocked with the plastic materials which allowed the fire to spread rapidly and engulf the entire building. Around 10 workers who were inside had safely rushed out before our firefighters reached the spot,” said the divisional officer.He added that three adjacent factory buildings were evacuated as a precautionary step during the firefighting operation.Deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Vijayanta Arya said they were waiting for a complaint from the factory owner regarding the incident. “Further action would be taken accordingly,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/fire-at-footwear-factory-in-keshavpuram-no-injuries-reported/story-4hvxMq1gfyoNVZh2FgctEJ.html
26-05-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram reports 33 new Covid-19 cases; highest spike in district so far||A total of 33 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were reported on Tuesday from across the city, including 12 police personnel. These cases were reported from areas such as Sirhaul, Shankar Chowk, Vipul Belmonte on Golf Course Road , Windsor Court in DLF-4, Rajiv Colony, Dundahera, Shakti Nagar, Hari Nagar, Kanhai Village, Sector 15 Part 1, Sector 10, Sector 18 and Sector 45. As per officials this is highest spike in Covid-19 cases in the district so far. The number of persons infected with SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) in the district has reached 317, out of which 183 have been discharged while 134 are still undergoing treatment. Currently, Gurugram has the highest number of cases across the state.In Sirhaul, till now, more than 20 cases have been reported so far, of which a large of number of cases belong to police personnel who were at deputed at the border. Sirhaul has been declared a containment zone. In Sector 10, over 10 cases have been found to be positive, while in Dundahera, nearly six Covid-19 cases have been reported, said health department officials. According to district health bulletin, at least six cases reported from Sirhaul and one from Dundahera were in close contact with positive cases from Delhi. Areas, such as Sector 10A, Rajiv Nagar, Sector 18, Sector 45, Windsor Court in DLF-4, Golf Course Road and Sector 15 Part 1 have reported one case each.As per the district health bulletin test results for 200 samples are being awaited. At least 10 people are currently under surveillance at a quarantine facility while nine Covid-19 patients are under home isolation after having been confirmed positive.Health department officials said that out of 317 cases, at least 100 cases can be linked to Delhi.Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer (CMO), said that they have sent samples of 12,192 people so far. “100 samples of people were received from government labs and 110 were received from private labs. We have collected nearly 250 samples on Tuesday, including those of close contacts of the people who have tested positive, including police personnel,” he said.Infection in the police forcePolice commissioner Muhammad Akil said that the newly infected police personnel are those who were deployed at Palam Vihar, which connects to the Salapur border near Delhi. “On May 20, some labourers had pelted stones on policemen after being denied entry to the city. Seven of them were injured while controlling the law and order situation and came in close contact with the people who were likely to be infected with the virus,” he said.The police said the miscreants had pelted stones for 25 minutes and three of them were arrested from the spot. The force came in close contact with hundreds of labourers and, as such, their samples were collected as a precautionary measure.The cops who tested positive were from Udyog Vihar police station, Sector 5 and Sector 18. Udyog Vihar police station has been sanitised. Public dealing in the police station is now being conducted through a glass partition to ensure social distancing. Following this, health officials in the district have been collecting samples from police personnel attached to Udyog Vihar and other police stations, along with their close contacts.The swab samples of around 30 police personnel attached to the Udyog Vihar police station were collected on Tuesday and other 70 from other police stations who were deployed at the border on May 20.“Only two out of 12 had symptoms of flu and fever rest are asymptomatic patients and have been placed in isolation at the Police Lines. The health teams have collected samples of more than 100 people on Tuesday who were in close contacts with these police personnel, including their family members. Three have been admitted to the hospital. The rest have been placed under isolation at a place that has been converted into a Covid-19 care facility in the Police Lines, Manesar,” said Akil.Duties have been changed at the border and entire team has been placed under home quarantine for 14 days, said the police.Akil said two newly constructed towers at the Police Lines in Manesar have been converted into quarantine wards. Earlier, they had placed three policemen under quarantine who are still undergoing treatment. “This is an occupational hazard and the policemen cannot escape from their duty of maintaining the law and order situation. The men are recovering and we have already provided the entire force with Personnel Protective Equipment (PPE) kits as a precautionary measure. Police officials have been asked to wear PPE kits while dealing with the public,” he said.Police said that samples of more than 200 police personnel have been collected in the last two days and their reports are awaited.Also, special arrangements have been made for the family members of these policemen. Further, the Gurugram Police has modified three of its vehicles to transport suspected or infected personnel to hospitals and the quarantine centre in Manesar, officials said.“The drivers of these special vehicles have been directed to wear PPE kits as a precautionary measure. A glass has been installed to segregate the driver from those sitting behind to maintain social distancing and hand sanitisers and face gloves are kept in each vehicles,” said Akil.Covid-19 in FaridabadA 53-year-old woman, who was diagnosed with Covid-19 disease last week, died on Monday night in Faridabad while undergoing treatment for a kidney ailment. Officials said this is the seventh Covid-related fatality in the Faridabad district.On Monday afternoon, a two-day-old girl, whose parents live in Gurugram, died of coronavirus, said officials. As per officials, the district has so far recorded 234 cases of coronavirus, of which 118 people have recovered.Twenty-three new cases were reported on Tuesday in the district, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-reports-33-new-covid-19-cases-highest-spike-in-district-so-far/story-24VmW9SwTyxzWow2TaGn7K.html
26-05-2020||City||AI flight from Delhi lands in Chandigarh with no passenger||A day after domestic air services resumed in the country after two months amid the Covid-19 lockdown, an Air India flight from Delhi landed in Chandigarh International Airport with no passenger and departed with just eight passengers to Dharamshala. The same flight arrived from Dharamshala with seven passengers and left for Delhi with just eight passengers. While 790 passengers flew in seven flights on Monday, a total of seven flights took off with 675 passengers on board on Tuesday.The airline operators said if the airport continues to run at an ultra-low capacity, they might pull off their domestic flights. An Indigo flight from Mumbai was cancelled due to operational reasons. The flights arrived and departed connecting three cities, including Delhi, Dharamshala and Bengaluru. An official spokesperson of the airport said an Indigo flight from Delhi arrived with 64 passengers and departed with 98 passengers, while another flight from Bengaluru landed with 100 passengers and left with 30 passengers. He said an Air Asia flight from Bengaluru arrived with 108 passengers, but departed with just 22 passengers. He added that the last flight landed with 48 passengers and left with 13 passengers on board.Arun Kumar Gupta, principal secretary of health department, Chandigarh, said a total of 70 flyers arrived in UT so far and have been advised self-monitoring, as per the Central Government’s guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ai-flight-from-delhi-lands-in-chandigarh-with-no-passenger/story-G9vLY4l5ZhRs5iqTWS3qfO.html
26-05-2020||Gurugram||Faridabad conducts special survey of 2 million people to trace early cases of Covid-19||A special two-day survey to identify those who are vulnerable to contract SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) was conducted by the Faridabad district administration last week. The survey covered nearly two million people in the district of which nearly 100,000 were senior citizens.  The initiative was undertaken by the district administration as the pandemic has mostly affected elderly people with co-morbid conditions. The survey was carried out by teams of 2,700 community health workers, ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) workers, government employees and local volunteers, along with the help of the police. Yashpal Yadav, deputy commissioner, Faridabad, said, “The teams visited nearly 4.70 lakh houses and covered a population of 20 lakh. We identified 93,703 senior citizens in two days, out of which 336 were suffering from cold, fever and cough. A total of 1,260 people had travel history out of Haryana and 21,276 had a history of blood pressure, asthma, hypertension, tuberculosis and diabetes.”Yadav said samples were collected of the people with symptoms, although their reports are being awaited. The special survey was conducted mainly in the containment zones, which have been declared as Covid-19 hotspots.The survey comes after health experts pointed out that the chances of contracting Covid-19 among senior citizens with co-morbid conditions like hypertension, diabetes, asthma, tuberculosis and heart disease are much higher than others. Six people have succumbed to the infection in the district so far.During the survey, more than 10,000 senior citizens said that the current lockdown has affected their health condition adversely as they are being forced to remain indoors and are unable to go out for their regular walks.The administration has advised people to remain in home isolation after getting their tests conducted.The deputy commissioner further said, “They have placed nine patients under home isolation, who were asymptomatic but positive. We have tested samples of 1,125 people who were close contacts of 214 people who have been tested positive. Additionally, 9,647 people have been placed under home isolation,” he said.The Faridabad Civil hospital has prepared with 100 beds for non-Covid patients and another 300 beds at ESIC Medical College and Hospital.As of Tuesday evening, Faridabad reported twenty-three positive Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 234 in the state, with seventh deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/faridabad-conducts-special-survey-of-2-million-people-to-trace-early-cases-of-covid-19/story-GuMQbje5sUA6VCAwAkX5dN.html
26-05-2020||Delhi||DU delaying formation of governing bodies to shield corrupt officials: Manish Sisodia||Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia wrote to Delhi University (DU) vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi on Monday alleging that the varsity was deliberately delaying the formation of governing bodies (GBs) in 28 Delhi government-funded colleges to shield corrupt officials. Sisodia also asked the varsity to ensure that the process of forming GBs is not delayed to prevent administrative crisis.Vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi did not respond to calls and text messages seeking his comments on the matter. Across colleges, GBs take all decisions for the smooth functioning of a college, including the appointment of teaching and non-teaching staff. The 10-member governing bodies in these colleges have people nominated by both the university and the Delhi government. The tenure of the GBs in 28 Delhi government colleges expired in March 2019. Since then, the Delhi government and the varsity have been at the loggerheads with the DU administration over the issue often leading to a delay in the release of grants to these colleges.“The inordinate delays in constituting the Governing Bodies cannot merely be an act of omission. It now seems like a deliberate attempt to ensure that proper oversight mechanism is not put in place,” Sisodia wrote in the letter to Tyagi on Monday adding that he receives complaints of malpractices and corruption in these colleges.“It seems that the highest functionaries in the University of Delhi seem to be conspiring to protect the perpetrators of corruption. There can be no other reason why such inordinate delays and obstructions have been caused in the formation of these governing bodies and in forwarding the six names sent by the government on March 20 immediately to these colleges,” the letter read.The six names in question became the final bone of contention after DU’s Executive Council recommended sending these names back to the state government for reconsideration on March 13 this year. A week later, the government said that these six names were to be continued.“It was decided that if these names come back, they will be treated as approved and to be sent to the respective colleges. On May 13, university forwarded all names approved by the EC except these six names which are in violation of EC decision. This is not only to delay the process further but also to tilt the balance in the GB formation,” said EC member Rajesh Jha.Pratyush Vatsala, principal of Lakshmibai College, said, “We have started the initial process for the formation of governing bodies. We started contacting the names forwarded by the varsity to take various undertakings. We got the names over ten days ago and it is unlikely that the governing bodies were formed in any of the 28 colleges amid a lockdown.”EC member Rajesh Jha said that many colleges are “buying time on one pretext or the other” over the formation of GBs in all colleges. “This is like a pocket veto. Some colleges are delaying on the trivial pretext of missing phone number or email ids of members. The university is withholding the names of teacher representatives in GB over political consideration,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/du-delaying-formation-of-governing-bodies-to-shield-corrupt-officials-manish-sisodia/story-kRWq89vcwDHUbZK0jsbPKP.html
26-05-2020||Delhi||One more containment zone in Delhi, tally now 91||The Delhi government on Tuesday sealed parts of Swatantra Nagar Police Colony in Narela after six Covid-19 positive cases were reported from the area in the last few days. This takes the total count of containment zones in the city to 91.According to officials, those who tested positive are relatives of three police personnel deployed in North-west Delhi.District magistrate (north) Deepak Shinde said,“Containment order for Gali number 3A, 3B, 4A, 4B, 5A and 5B Swatantra Nagar have been issued after it has been brought to notice that six Covid-19 positive cases have been detected in the area recently. The North Corporation has been directed to thoroughly sanitise the area. Health department surveillance officials have been directed to conduct the survey and sampling of anyone showing influenza-like illness symptoms.”He said that they are tracing the contacts of the patients.Gaurav Sharma, the deputy commissioner of police (outer-north), said, “The three policemen were deployed in north-west district. They tested positive earlier and their relatives who came in contact with them also got infected. That led to the sealing process.”A containment area is a complete quarantine zone and no one is allowed to step out even to buy essential goods such as milk, vegetables, fruits etc. All the entry and exit points and even the internal lanes are barricaded in the containment zones. The authorities allow only a number of selected vendors to supply groceries and other essentials to the neighbourhood with the help of RWA and civil defence volunteers.The south Delhi district administration on Tuesday ordered scaling down operation of a containment area in Mehrauli where two people involved in food distribution had tested positive on April 27. BM Mishra, DM South Delhi said that de-sealing operations were started on Tuesday in the entire affected area -- Nirankari Gali, Nakshtra Gali, Nala Boring Gali, Rawan Wali Gali, Jamila Masjid Baoli, Dargah Gurudware wali Gali, Thane wali gali and Terminal Wali Gali. All these lanes were sealed as one containment zone in Mehrauli.“We have decided to scale down containment operations after no fresh Covid-19 cases were reported from the area in last 28 days. Health team surveillance will, however, continue in the area,” Mishra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/one-more-containment-zone-in-delhi-tally-now-91/story-w7M213F5NpRXAPSTXekwkN.html
26-05-2020||Gurugram||Badshahpur MLA seeks names of non-performing officials on Twitter, evokes sharp retort from politicians||In a move that sparked heated social media discussions, Badshahpur’s independent MLA Rakesh Daultabad on Monday sought names of non-performing officials from city residents and said that he would submit the list to the Haryana chief minister.Daultabad’s post on Twitter elicited sharp retorts from leaders of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress, who termed it a populist measure aimed at currying favour with voters. However, a large number of Gurugram residents came out in support of the MLA, who said that assessing the performance of officials and public feedback was a necessary step as there were many shortcomings and deficiencies in the infrastructure and services delivered by the government.Daultabad in his tweet on Monday said, “I am going to submit list of non-performing govt officers or employees to CM Sahab. You are welcome to share name of such employees with examples of non-performance.”Badshahpur residents immediately replied, highlighting deficiencies in road infrastructure and water supply, electricity shortages, roads in new sectors, overpricing of liquor and a few calling for a new development authority, alleging that existing agencies have failed to deliver the goods.Later on Tuesday, Daultabad said that residents had responded positively and sent around 400 messages to his post. “Our objective is not to point fingers but to assess the ground situation and know what the perception of people is about governance. We will convey the feedback received from people to the government and CM, regarding the issues faced by city residents,” he said, adding that citizens were asked to state specific instances and attach proofs to support their views.Pravin Malik, the president of Sare Home residents’ welfare association (RWA), said that since Gurugram was a corporate city, there was a need for a 360-degree review of performance by public officials and to set benchmarks for delivery. “The government employees must be assessed for performance and feedback must be taken from people who can really say what (services) they are getting,” he said.Among those who criticised Daultabad’s post was BJP’s Manish Yadav, Daultabad’s rival during the last state elections.Yadav posted on Twitter, “We have the most promising and performing government under the leadership of Sh ML Khattar, who is delivering to its best even in this difficult times n before pointing on administration we need to ask ourselves, are we giving our Best.”Yadav could not be reached for comment on Tuesday.A Congress leader from Badshahpur said that the MLA, who is asking questions, is himself a “non-performer”. “Approvals and budgets have been granted for a medical college in Kherki Majra and hospitals in Badshahpur and Farrukhnagar, but how many times has our MLA taken up these issues with CM? This is a move to get popularity only,” he said.Daultabad, however, said that he had been taking up issues related to Gurugram and Badshahpur regularly, and has even raised issues in the legislative assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/badshahpur-mla-seeks-names-of-non-performing-officials-on-twitter-evokes-sharp-retort-from-politicians/story-SCLmEDRLqKIrySYc85EhpM.html
26-05-2020||Delhi||25 flights cancelled on second day of flight operations after shutdown||At least 25 flights, scheduled to arrive at or depart from the Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport, were cancelled on Tuesday, the second day of the airport resuming domestic flight operations after the nationwide ban on domestic flights was lifted on Monday. The airport operated 137 departures and 140 arrivals on Tuesday, officials said.Domestic flights had been suspended since March 25, when a nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19 was announced.On Monday, when the Delhi airport resumed its functioning after two months, it handled 118 arrivals and 125 departures, with a total of 82 flights being cancelled. The flights were cancelled due to a multitude of reasons as airlines resumed operations across India. Instead of following the national guidelines issued by the Centre for all passengers, many states set their own rules: Karnataka requires mandatory institutional quarantine for passengers from worst-affected states, while Punjab and Meghalaya have made a swab test mandatory for arrivals.A senior officer from the airport, on the condition of anonymity, said, “The total operations increased on Tuesday significantly and number of flights cancelled remained lower than the first day. All measures of ensuring adequate deployment of staff to assist passengers and to make sure that safety guidelines are followed are in place. The situation is expected to improve.”The number of passengers stranded at the airport also remained low on Tuesday and there were fewer complaints from passengers about flight cancellations with no prior information, the officer added.Many passengers arriving at the Delhi airport also took to social media to contact the airport operator about availability of cabs.In response, the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) ha tweeted: “prepaid taxi services are operational at Delhi Airport”.The operator also told one of its passengers in a tweet, “You can avail authorized cab services like Meru, Mega, Ola, Uber, WTI and Carzonrent cabs to/from Delhi Airport.”In another tweet to outstation passengers, DIAL said, “taxi services are available at Delhi Airport for outstation destinations. Passengers may need to present an e-pass to the authorities of the destination state. For more info, kindly get in touch with the respective government authority.”App-based cab service provider, Ola, said on Tuesday it has resumed its services at the Indira Gandhi International Airport, along with 21 other airports. In a statement, Ola said that customers need to wear masks, AC will remain switched off, with windows open, only two passengers will be allowed in a car and they’ll load, unload their luggage themselves. Only cashless payments will be accepted, Ola said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/25-flights-cancelled-on-second-day-of-flight-operations-after-shutdown/story-Q7oUJS8VyMGRHy14HeSwUJ.html
26-05-2020||City||6 booked for firing in air, assault in Mohali||Six persons were booked for firing in air and assaulting a man after intercepting his vehicle following an argument over a land dispute in Sohana here. Gurtej Singh, a resident of Kumbra village said that he, along with his friend Varinder, on Monday night was returning after dropping his injured friend Harvir Singh in Mauli Baidwan.He said when they reached near the Sector 70/Phase 8 light points, Zen and Bolero vehicles intercepted his Fortuner vehicle and armed Juggu of Raipur Khurd, Pavitar Singh and Gurpreet Singh of Mauli Baidwan, Gurpreet Singh of Shekhanmajra along with 7-8 persons carrying kirpan, iron rods and pistol alighted. He alleged that after getting out of their vehicles, the accused broke the windshield with rod ad pulled him out of the vehicle and assaulted him. Meanwhile, accused Gupreet Singh fired in air with a pistol. Hearing the gunshots, people started gathering around the area. The accused fled from the spot while a passerby informed the police. Investigating officer (IO) Sikander Singh said that Gurtej was called by his friend Harvir Singh who had a land dispute with someone and both the parties were to meet at a designated point. He added that when Gurtej along with his friend Varinder reached there, they found Harvir injured and immediately took him to civil hospital in Phase 6. After getting Harvir first aid, the two men dropped him home, added IO.Police have registered a case on Gurtej’s statement in the Sohana police station however no person has been held so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/6-booked-for-firing-in-air-assault-in-mohali/story-yTzLR9TAApg3oWYMic08hI.html
26-05-2020||Delhi||SAI opens two stadia in Capital||The Sports Authority of India on Tuesday opened two of its five stadia in Delhi under the come-and-play scheme for athletes above 10 years of age.This follows the central government’s go-ahead for resumption of sporting activities in a phased manner under strict health protocols to contain the spread of Covid-19. The main aim of the scheme is to impart coaching primarily to beginners to encourage participation in sports and for optimum utilisation of the facilities available. SAI, in a statement, said that sporting activity will be allowed at the Jawaharlal Nehru and the Major Dhyan Chand National Stadium in slots of one hour which need to be booked online. The activities at two other stadia under SAI --- Indira Gandhi Stadium and Karni Singh Shooting Ranges in Tughlakabad--- can only start next week due to logistical issues. The Shyama Prasad Mukherjee swimming complex (Talkatora) will continue to be out of bounds for the time being.Initially, the JLN Stadium will open its archery, table tennis, badminton and lawn tennis facilities, while the activities allowed at the Dhyan Chand Stadium — the hockey hub in the capital — will depend upon the facilities available.“Guidelines have been made available to the stadia administrators and they have been briefed comprehensively to ensure adherence to government guidelines of health and hygiene,” SAI, the working arm of the sports ministry, said.It said that activities have only been allowed in those disciplines “where no contact is required among players and minimal sharing of equipment is needed”. “In keeping with the guidelines of the government on social distancing and hygiene, it has been decided a maximum of 50 per cent of sports facilities in various stadia will be made operational to ensure social distancing.”To ensure a safe environment, all the facilities opened at the venues have been “disinfected and deep sanitised, in keeping with the guidelines”. “Besides, thermal checks and hand sanitisation of every athlete and accompanying parents is being done at entry gates. The wearing of mask has been made mandatory,” the statement said.A SAI coach said on condition of anonymity that tennis coaching had started at the Dhyan Chand Stadium and 32 players had been shortlisted (online) of which six reported in the 4-5pm slot, while four others reported in the time slot between 5-6 pm. “Training in hockey, cricket and kabaddi couldn’t commence today and is expected to start at 7:30 am tomorrow,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sai-opens-two-stadia-in-capital/story-Ub3gzq9lv1qXXTxqDzOThP.html
26-05-2020||City||Hindon-Hubli flight services suspended for two days||Flights between Hindon and Hubli airports have temporarily been suspended for two days till Wednesday, said officials of the Airport Authority of India (AAI), after the ministry of civil aviation banned all flight services on routes that are more than 500km in stage-length. The private airline operating the route under the UDAN (Ude Desk ke Aam Nagarik) scheme has approached the ministry to grant permission to operate a route which is more than 500km, said AAI officials. In its order of May 24, the ministry had issued directions for the resumption of regional flight services under the UDAN scheme with several riders. One of the criteria states that only operational routes up to 500km in stage-length will be permitted to resume operations.The civil terminal airport at Sikandarpur near the Hindon airbase operates two routes, namely the Hindon-Hubli route and the Hindon-Pithoragarh route. Flight services resumed on May 25 between Hindon-Hubli. A total of 30 passengers arrived in Ghaziabad from Hubli while 18 boarded the same flight back to Hubli.However, the airlines, Star Air, decided to suspend the flights on Tuesday and Wednesday once the criteria of 500km distance was made known to the management. “We received the circular from the ministry on the morning of May 24 that under the UDAN scheme all the flights which are more than 500km would not be permitted to fly. Since Hindon-Hubli is one of the longest routes of about 1,500km, we have requested to the ministry to allow us to operate further flights. We are expecting a reply soon but till then, we have cancelled our flight for two days, starting Tuesday,” said an officer from Star Air.“We got the intimation on May 24 but the flight for May 25 was already booked. As such, we did not want to lose the confidence of the passengers and operated the flight for the day after getting permission. For the flights cancelled for the next two days, we are allowing full refund to passengers who have booked tickets with us. They will be accommodated in the next permitted flights,” the officer said.Shobha Bhardwaj, the director of the civil terminal, also confirmed that flights to Hubli were cancelled for two days.“The airline has approached the ministry for necessary permissions. The flight services will resume once the permission is received. For the other route, Hindon-Pithoragarh, we have no intimation from the airline as of now,” she added.The Hindon-Pithoragarh route is operated by Air Heritage. Its CEO Rohit Mathur did not respond to our calls for comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hindon-hubli-flight-services-suspended-for-two-days/story-NfT96holgSq1Ayu8S7SijM.html
26-05-2020||Delhi||Jamaat organisers wilfully violated norms: Police tells HC||The Delhi Police on Tuesday informed the Delhi high court that Tablighi Jamaat head Maulana Saad and management officials of the Nizamuddin Markaz had “deliberately, wilfully, negligently and malignantly” disobeyed the government’s directives pertaining to the ban on holding large gatherings.The information was given to the court, which was hearing a plea seeking the release of 916 foreign nationals who had been quarantined at government facilities after attending congregations at the Markaz. The police informed the court they were questioning 900 attendees and none of them had been arrested or detained.In the status report, the police said they held several meetings with Saad and Markaz officials to explain to them the about the Covid-19 situation. Despite this, they did not inform the health department or other government agency about large gatherings inside the Markaz, the report read.Standing counsel (criminal), Delhi government, advocate Rahul Mehra told the court on Tuesday that written notices had been issued to Maulana Saad and the Markaz management, but they did not pay heed to it. The gatherings, which took place from March 10 to 23, had led to the single largest source of the Covid-19 transmission across the city in March and April, following which the headquarters in Nizamuddin Basti was also sealed.At least 21 persons evacuated from the Markaz had tested positive for Covid-19 following the evacuation process from March 29-31. Until April 17, when the Delhi government mentioned Jamaat-linked cases in its health bulletin, at least 1,080 attendees had tested positive, with the last positive case being recorded on April 14.“...on March 21, the authorities of Markaz at Tablighi Jammat Headquarters were contacted by Delhi Police. One Mufti Shahzad was apprised of the situation arising out of the spread of the virus and asked to take immediate action for preventing the spread of this disease. He was directed to send the foreigner devotees back to their respective countries and other Indian persons to their respective native places...Moreover, an audio recording purportedly by Saad, was found in circulation on WhatsApp on March 21, in which the speaker was heard asking his followers to defy the lockdown and social distancing and to attend the religious gathering...,” the report said.Delhi Police registered a case against Saad and six other management officials for defying a series of government orders, which banned all gatherings.Quoting the sub-divisional magistrate’s inspection report, the police said that 1,300 attendees were found residing on the premises, without maintaining social distancing.“...No one was seen following directions such as use of facial mask, hand sanitisers, etc. Maulana Saad, others named above and the management of Markaz had deliberately, wilfully, negligently and malignantly committed acts which were in direct contravention to the lawful directions of the Government and public servants...,” the report read.In the last week of March, police and health officials had evacuated over 2,000 Jamaat attendees and sent them to hospitals or quarantine centres. Many who had fled the building and staying across the city were traced and sent to the quarantine facilities. The police are yet to summon Saad to join the investigation. They have got a lookout circular issued against him to prevent him from leaving the country.Saad’s counsel, Fuzail Ayyubi, did not respond to multiple calls and a text message for comment on the police’s status report. Ayyubi had earlier denied the police’s allegations and said that the Tablighi Jamaat members were trapped because of the lockdown and could not leave the building due to lack of conveyance.Standing counsel, Mehra, on Tuesday told the court that over 900 Jamaat attendees had joined the investigation. Mehra said the police would file more charge-sheets in the case at the trial court within a week. On Tuesday, the police filed 20 charge-sheets against 82 Tablighi Jamaat members.Appearing for the petitioner, senior advocates Rebecca John and Ashima Mandla said all foreign nationals who tested negative be released from institutional quarantine to alternative accommodations, factoring social distancing.The police told the court that the passports of 723 foreign nationals and identity cards of 23 Nepali nationals have been seized.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/jamaat-organisers-wilfully-violated-norms-police-tells-hc/story-OGOgl7cpnIpuWT7eMHPrHN.html
26-05-2020||City||Bike robber nabbed in police encounter in Jarcha||A 25-year-old bike robber was held by the Jarcha Police on Tuesday afternoon, following an encounter in which he was injured. Three of his accomplices managed to flee the spot.According to police officials, they received a call at around 1.30pm on their helpline number by a man named Pankaj, who informed them that he has been robbed of his bike by four people after they injured him with a stick near the NTPC crossing in Jarcha.“Following the call, checkposts were set up. When the suspects were spotted, they were asked to stop by a police team. However, they tried to flee and fired at our team, after which they were chased down. One of them was injured by a bullet in his left leg in the retaliatory firing,” said deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Zone 3, Rajesh Kumar Singh. The suspect was identified as Mohit, a native of Bulandshahr. He was taken to the district hospital for treatment. The police are on the lookout for three of his accomplices, who managed to flee from the spot.“The stolen bike was recovered from the suspect along with another bike, which has been traced to a theft in Ghaziabad earlier this year. In addition, we found the countrymade pistol they used to fire at us. A bag containing a fake pistol and the stick used to hit Pankaj was also recovered,” said the DCP.Police officials are trying to identify other cases in which the suspects may have been involved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bike-robber-nabbed-in-police-encounter-in-jarcha/story-yZUYekJu71almMPkLK0sSI.html
26-05-2020||Noida||Two liquor vends in Noida sealed for overcharging customers||The district excise department sealed two model liquor shops in Noida on Tuesday for allegedly selling alcohol over its maximum retail price.Excise officials said they posed as customers and conducted inspections at liquor stores in Haibatpur village in Bisrakh, Noida on Tuesday. The found a beer shop and a store selling Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) selling liquor at higher prices. “Both the shops were charging ₹20 extra for every bottle. We have sealed the stores and asked the owners to give an explanation within the next seven days failing which their licenses could be suspended,” said RB Singh, district excise officer, Gautam Budh Nagar. Officials said they will continue such inspections. “We will continue to inspect liquor vends. Selling liquor at price higher than the maximum retail price is unethical and will not be tolerated,” Singh said.Ever since the sale of liquor resumed in the city on May 4, many customers had lodged complaints with the excise officials for being overcharged by various liquor vends. Currently, out of 481 registered liquor hops in the district, only 371 outlets have opened, while the remaining are in containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/two-liquor-vends-in-noida-sealed-for-overcharging-customers/story-yvr4PM4VrxqEXUtwF4CnbN.html
26-05-2020||City||Tension over Gutka Sahib thrown inside gurdwara with a letter inserted in it||Tension gripped Bhanohar Punjab village of Mullanpur after an unidentified man threw a Gutka Sahib with a letter inserted in it inside a gurdwara. The letter allegedly mentioned that police had failed to arrest ‘killers’ of a 25-year-old woman, who had died in the village in 2018.The gurdwara committee found the letter on May 23, but informed the police about it on Tuesday.Inspector Prem Singh, SHO, Mullanpur Dakha police station, said the letter referred to a woman, who had allegedly committed suicide in 2018.He added, “According to police record, the woman had consumed poison and the police had conducted inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC in February 2018. The woman was a divorcee and was living with her maternal uncles in the village. The letter, written in Punjabi, however, says that police had failed to trace her killers. it says that “Kudi maari hai, par usde katil nahi fadey (the woman was killed, but police have not arrested the killers).The SHO added no one has been captured in the CCTVs installed in the gurdwara while throwing the Gutka Sahib. The police suspect some local-level politics behind the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tension-over-gutka-sahib-thrown-inside-gurdwara-with-a-letter-inserted-in-it/story-OEx2HVbnRO5DNtzdsNpC6N.html
26-05-2020||City||Former Gautam Budh Nagar CMO joins as medical superintendent at Ghaziabad hospital||Nearly two months after he was removed as Gautam Budh Nagar chief medical officer (CMO), Dr. Anurag Bhargava was posted as chief medical superintendent of the MMG District Hospital in Ghaziabad on Tuesday. He replaced Dr Ravinder Rana who now joins as senior consultant at district hospital in Etah.In April, principal secretary (medical education) Rajnish Dube, in his report, blamed then Gauta Budh Nagar district magistrate BN Singh and then CMO Bhargava for failing to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the district. This followed Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath reprimanding the duo over the issue.Following the report, Bhargava was attached with Narendra Bhooshan, the chief executive officer of the Greater Noida Authority who is also the district in-charge for Covid-19 in Gautam Budh Nagar. Soon after, BN Singh requested two months’ earned leave and made his application public. Singh was reprimanded for this and was transferred to Lucknow and attached to the Board of Revenue.“Bhargava has joined as the new chief medical superintendent of the MMG Hospital in Ghaziabad after the directions were received from the UP government. He has taken charge. Dr. Ravinder Rana will now join at Etah,” said Dr. NK Gupta, Ghaziabad CMO.Gupta on Tuesday requested all occupants of different state-run quarantine centres in Ghaziabad to arrange for daily use items. According to official records, there are 292 people in different Covid-19 quarantine centres in Ghaziabad till Tuesday.“So far we had made arrangements for about 1,400 people and arranged for soaps, toothbrushes, sanitary napkins, slippers and even clothes, including undergarments. But now we are short on funds with us and the occupants have been requested to bring their own daily use items. We have asked officials to put up posters at the quarantine centres to this effect. Some of the items we distributed earlier were also procured through voluntary organisations,” he said.New Cases Ghaziabad on Tuesday added four more cases to its tally which grew to 235 till Tuesday night. CMO Gupta said that two new cases were reported from Braj Colony in Vaishali, while one each was reported from Muradnagar town and Behta Hajipur in Loni.“There were reports of several members of a family tested positive in Kaushambi. We are waiting for their reports and these will be added to the tally in coming days. A woman from Delhi’s Patparganj was brought to the Covid-19 hospital at Sanjay Nagar on Monday evening but she was referred to critical care hospital in Meerut where she died Monday night. She suffered from cancer,” CMO said. “There were more reports about death of a retired police person from Pratap Vihar. We have no information about it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-gautam-budh-nagar-cmo-joins-as-medical-superintendent-at-ghaziabad-hospital/story-m3YHbTkfoqgJkmtdnNSx6N.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Release SC/ST scholarships, says Panjab University Students Council leader||Panjab University Campus Students Council (PUCSC) vice-president Rahul Kumar on Tuesday wrote to the university vice-chancellor (V-C) Raj Kumar and dean students’ welfare asking them to release scholarships for scheduled castes and scheduled tribe (SC/ST) category students.Every year PU provides financial assistance to SC/ST students under ‘improvement of education’ budget head. Reportedly, there are many such students who are eligible for getting the financial assistance from the university, but have not received the same so far. Rahul Kumar requested the authorities to take necessary steps to ensure financial aid to the students belonging to SC/ST category .In his letter to the authorities, PUCSC vice-president said that all the SC/ST students who were eligible for scholarships and had been receiving the aid in the previous years were yet to receive the financial assistance for this year. “Usually the students receive the scholarships in March, but this year it has been delayed due to lockdown amid the coronavirus outbreak. Students are eagerly waiting for PU to release the scholarships,” he added.One of the students of Urdu department at PU, Balwinder Pal Singh, said that last year, he had received the scholarship in April whereas this year, he hasn’t received the same till now. “PU should release the scholarships soon and help the students during these testing times,” added Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/release-sc-st-scholarships-says-panjab-university-students-council-leader/story-UCureR1fNLETUTQ7P9b0qL.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Heatwave sweeps across Punjab, Haryana; Hisar hottest at 48° C||A severe heatwave swept Haryana, Punjab and their joint capital, Chandigarh, on Tuesday, with Hisar being the hottest place in the region at 48 degrees Celsius.Hisar in Haryana recorded its hottest day of the current summer so far, with the maximum temperature settling five notches above normal limits, the meteorological department said. Blistering heat also swept Narnaul at 46 degrees Celsius, five notches above normal limits.Among other places in Haryana, Ambala sizzled at 44.2 degrees Celsius, up five notches, while Karnal sweltered under intense heat at 44 degrees Celsius, five notches above normal limits.Sweltering heat also swept Bathinda and Patiala in Punjab which recorded a high of 45.5 and 44.7 degrees Celsius, respectively. Amritsar and Ludhiana also recorded above normal maximums of 43.7 degrees Celsius and 44.1 degrees Celsius, respectively.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, also experienced a hot day at 43.1 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal limits.According to the MeT department forecast, heatwave conditions will continue to prevail for the next two days in Punjab and Haryana. ‘SOME RESPITE BY THURSDAY’ Chandigarh IMD scientist Shivinder Singh said the heatwave in the region had been caused by hot surface winds blowing in from Rajasthan, where at some stations the maximum temperature had crossed 47 degrees C.Some respite was possible by Thursday when a western disturbance was likely to affect the region. “Cloudy weather and a chance of light rain up to 20mm along with gusty winds up to 40km are likely to bring the maximum temperature back in the 30s,” he said.Agro meteorologist at PAU regional research centre, Bathinda, Dr Raj Kumar Paul said: “Thunderstorm with wind speed of 30-40kmph is expected at isolated places on May 28 and squall with wind speed of 50-60kmph at some places in the region is expected on May 29 and 30. Light to moderate rain is expected at some places by May 30, 31.” ‘HEATSTROKE CAN BE DANGEROUS’Consultant physician Dr Vitull K Gupta said people have not acclimatised to the prevailing weather conditions. People need to be cautious as it might lead to heat effects, he said, adding people should avoid direct contact with sunlight and drink a lot of water mixed with a pinch of salt. Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said such rise in temperature can lead to heatstroke which can result in physiological strain and even death. The health department has advised the residents to avoid going out between 12 noon and 3pm.“Besides, people should wear lightweight, light-coloured, porous cotton clothes and when outside, use protective goggles, umbrella or a hat,” the civil surgeon said.He added that the parents should strictly keep their children inside houses and should not allow them to play in open fields before 6pm.He said the signs of heatstroke include rashes, headache, vomiting, red and dry skin, muscular weakness, giddiness and loss of sweat. Persons affected by sunstroke should be given first-aid immediately, including pouring water (room temperature) on their head, wiping their body with wet cloth so as to bring down body temperature, before rushing to the nearest hospital.(Inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/heatwave-sweeps-across-punjab-haryana-hisar-hottest-at-48-c/story-PqGaNT4aC1VKcpHfcR4SUP.html
26-05-2020||Delhi||90% DU students not ready to give exams: teachers’ body||Around 90% of Delhi University (DU) students said they are not prepared to appear for the university examinations citing a number of reasons, from not having materials to not having high-speed connectivity to attend online examinations, according to a survey by the varsity teachers’ associationThe Covid-19 lockdown enforced since March 25 has affected the university’s examination schedule. On May 14, DU had announced that it may conduct open-book online examinations for final-year students if the Covid-19 situation prevented the regular pen-paper mode. Teachers and students have been opposing the decision citing lack of access to high-speed internet, devices like smartphones and laptops, intermittent electricity in remote areas, among others.The survey, by Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA), had over 51,000 undergraduate and postgraduate students as respondents, over 21,800 of whom were final year students. The university has 900,000 students.According to the survey, over 85% students said they were not ready for an online open-book examination (OBE).Over 70% of the respondents in the survey said they attended less than half of the online classes conducted on through video conferencing apps. Over 55% of the students did not have the reading material for the syllabus covered before the pandemic struck since they left their notes in Delhi while returning to their home town.Sneha Sarah, a final year student of Hindu College and who is now in her home town of Kollam in Kerala, said, “I have to rely on online resources for learning since most of my books are in Delhi. Besides, we are not used to studying using our phones and laptops. The network receptivity in my area is poor. Many students, including me, have been under quarantine and we can’t even step out or go somewhere where the receptivity is better.”While 50% students were able to access reading material sent to them by their teachers during the lockdown, nearly 12% said they did not receive any material while 38% said they weren’t able to access the e-learning material. The teachers’ body also plans to share these details with the Ministry of Human Resource Development and continue opposing the OBE mode. Despite repeated calls and messages over the questions raised on online examination and their feasibility, DU vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi could not be reached for comment.According to the DUTA survey, over 80% of the students said they were unable to concentrate on their studies owing to the current pandemic. “The economic strain on families due to the Covid-19 crisis affects the students as well. Besides, students sometimes have to step outside their homes for better network reception. Around 74% study on their smartphones and this limits their comprehension as well,” said Abha Dev Habib, DUTA treasurer.The teachers’ body also raised concerns over the differently-abled students and the university administration’s silence over how scribes would be arranged for such students. DUTA president Rajib Ray said, “We have been arguing that the OBE is a faulty method of examination as it discriminates against those without access to books, notes and online resources, encourages malpractice and penalizes honest students.” He also said that the decision should have been taken in consultation with the university’s statutory bodies and stakeholders.A member of DU’s task force constituted to look into the academic challenges during the lockdown, requesting anonymity, said even if the lockdown ends, it would not be possible for students to come for regular pen-paper mode examination.“Over 50% of our students are not from Delhi. There are concerns over whether they will manage to get tickets or not. Will they need to be quarantined after coming here or not? In such a scenario, online examination seems to be the only option. The recommendations for taking an average of previous semesters won’t work for final year students because foreign universities need to see what the students studied during the course. What will the students mention for this year?” the member said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/90-du-students-not-ready-to-give-exams-teachers-body/story-WQ5KUnFkAp2xNtYTdCKslO.html
26-05-2020||City||Thane records 122 new cases, two deaths||Two people died while 122 new cases of coronavirus were detected in Thane on Tuesday. The total number of cases in the city is 2,294. The death toll has touched 69.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), said, “Among the 69 deaths are 50 men and 19 women. A 82-year-old man from Wagale Estate who was admitted to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital in Kalwa and a 42-year-old man from Kausa in Mumbra admitted to Vedant Hospital have died. The number of cases in Naupada-Kopri ward has increased by 30 cases on Tuesday.”Thane civic commissioner Vijay Singhal surveyed containment areas of Naupada, including Nagsen Nagar, Khatan Road and Chendani Koliwada. “He gave orders to conduct a temperature and oxygen level scan of each of the residents. The toilets in the areas will be cleaned using hypochloride solution four to five times a day. He also gave orders to break the chain by increase contact tracing and quarantining of high-risk contact in these areas,” Malvi addedRecovery rateThe rate of recovery of Covid cases in Thane has now reached 41% with over 890 people recovered so far. On Tuesday itself 52 people were discharged from various hospitals in the city. At present there are 1335 active coronavirus cases in the city.Uthalsar ward locked down till May 31The TMC has shut shops and markets in Uthalsar ward, which saw five new cases on Tuesday. Only medical shops will be allowed to open and dairy shops will open from 7am to 9am. The lockdown will start from midnight of May 26 to May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-records-122-new-cases-two-deaths/story-n2sJ5olHKRoQEaeCXzZB8H.html
26-05-2020||City||4,000 get ration under PM scheme in Mohali||Under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY), as many as 4,000 smart ration card holders from several villages of Mohali were given ration on Tuesday.Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said that under the scheme, the registered beneficiaries were being provided with 5Kg wheat per member per month and 1Kg dal per family per month for a total of three months for free. He said regular monitoring of the entire process was being conducted through the various agencies so that proper distribution of ration takes place.Dayalan said that qualitative and quantitative check on depot holders was ensured with zero tolerance towards any malpractice. Not only this, the food and civil supplies teams were ensuring compliance with social distancing norms while undertaking the distribution besides exhorting common people to wear masks and exercise all precautions, he added.He further said that the teams formulated by the administration to complete the exercise in a foolproof manner were producing desired results and soon all smart card holders will be covered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-000-get-ration-under-pm-scheme-in-mohali/story-ctaGDUB0YwoVnRE6gFVaZI.html
26-05-2020||Patna||A day after JD-U MLA booked for triple murder, his brother shot dead||In the continuing spiral of violence in Gopalganj district even amid the Covid-19 lockdown, unidentified assailants Tuesday shot dead a close relative of controversial JD(U) MLA from Kuchaikot, Amrendra Pandey alias Pappu Pandey, a day after the MLA’s elder brother and his son were arrested for the murder of three members of an RJD leader’s family on Sunday. Tuesday’s killing took place at Repura village under Hathua police station in Gopalganj district.This is ninth murder in the last five months in the district.The deceased was identified as Shashikant alias Munna Tiwari (45), a contractor, and a cousin of the MLA. Agitated over the incident, villagers blocked a stretch of the National Highway 28, demanding immediate arrest of the killers and transfer of the Hathua station house officer (SHO) alleging that he was hand-in-glove with criminal elements.The deceased’s sister, Kiran Devi, said the incident took place when Tiwari was standing outside his house. She said four assailants on two motorcycles reached the spot and fired at him from point blank range.“We are investigating the case. The reason could be a dispute over contracts. Preliminary investigation suggested that the deceased had got a contract of Rs 40 lakh to construct a pond ,” Gopalganj SP Manoj Tiwari said.On Sunday evening, assailants had killed three persons of an RJD leader’s family. The RJD leader, JP Choudhary, who was injured in the firing, is being treated at Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH) in the state capital. Five persons, including the MLA, his brother Satish Pandey and nephew Mukesh Pandey were booked for the triple murder. The next day, Satish and his son Mukesh Pandey, chairman of Gopalganj district board, were arrested. Meanwhile, Leader of the opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Tuesday issued an ultimatum to the state government to arrest the MLA.He also visited the PMCH in Patna to enquire about the health of JP Choudhary. “I give an ultimatum of two days to the state government to arrest the absconding MLA. Otherwise, I and my party workers will march to Gopalganj and launch an intensive agitation,” Yadav said.When contacted, JD (U) spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan Prasad said, “Rule of law prevails in Bihar. The present dispensation doesn’t differentiate between common people and the high and mighty. And Tejashwi Yadav should also know that it is Bihar of 2020 and not 1990.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/a-day-after-jd-u-mla-booked-for-triple-murder-his-brother-shot-dead/story-8l2SZTU7RxnU9yAlXGq45H.html
26-05-2020||Noida||District administration redefines containment zones for high-rises||A day after residents of a Greater Noida west township held a protest against the authority’s decision to seal the entire society after three positive Covid-19 cases were reported from the housing complex, the district administration has redefined containment zones for high-rises.According to Uttar Pradesh government guidelines, any residential area with multiple cases will become a containment zone and will be sealed for a period of 21 days. However, in a statement released by the office of the district magistrate Suhas Lalinakere Yathiraj on Tuesday, the radius of the containment zone will now depend on the number of cases.“In consultation with the state government, containment zones have been redefined for multi-storied buildings and societies in urban areas. If a single case is reported in a multi-storey society, only that particular tower will be sealed, and if more than one case is reported, the previous rule will be applicable according to which sealing radius will be 500 metre for containment and 250 metre for the buffer zone,” the order said.The order further stated that in case towers of the same society fall outside the 500 metre radius, they will not be considered as part of the containment zone.Residents of various high-rises have welcomed the district administration’s move.“It is very difficult for high-rises that have thousands of people living in them to have them sealed. It’s a question of their livelihood. People in hot spots cannot even get administrative passes. Not all societies have grocery shops within their premises, thus creating further problems. We were in touch with a few local politicians to highlight the issue, part from us taking up social media campaigns. The decision to implement partial sealing is better than the entire complex being sealed and a less number of residents will be affected,” Abhishek Kumar, president, NEFOWA, a Greater Noida West association of high-rises, said.The administration’s decision comes 24 hours after residents of Supertech Ecovillage had held a protest on Monday evening when their society had been sealed. The society has over 3,000 flats and all three positive cases, reported over the past seven days, are from the same family.“It was a media house employee who was found positive first followed by his mother and son. We understand the regulations. But it is a huge township. People were not comfortable with the whole society being sealed. By 8pm, many residents had gathered to protest against the sealing,” Sameer Bhardwaj, a resident of the society, said.He said many residents are worried about their jobs as offices have now resumed functioning. “If the entire area is put under lockdown, we understand. But for a few people to be unable to go to work while the rest of the world is slowly getting back to its feet, puts our employment in jeopardy,” Bhardwaj said.It was only after local police intervention that the residents were dispersed and the district administration officials continued with the sealing on Monday“People were under the assumption that only a part of the society will be sealed, but that confusion was cleared and the residents were told that for now, the decision has been taken to seal the entire society. They were assured that all products of daily need will be provided to them at their doorstep and people are cooperating with the authorities,” a statement issued from the district police earlier said.In a video circulating on social media, police personnel from Bisrakh station were seen pacifying residents and letting them know that in case of medical emergencies, they will be allowed to go to hospitals while arrangements will also be made to provide medicines to residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/district-administration-redefines-containment-zones-for-high-rises/story-saM38OkBnaW1v5k2crfikO.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Cabbie hangs self at his house in Chandigarh||A 40-year-old cab driver hung himself from the ceiling at his house in Sector 29 on Monday.Police said the man was under depression and was alone at home when he took the extreme step around 9.30pm.His neighbours informed police and he was rushed to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Sector 32 where he was declared dead and his body was shifted to the mortuary, police said. Police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cabbie-hangs-self-at-his-house-in-chandigarh/story-SvvkKaS35ii6d5hvulG8IO.html
26-05-2020||Pune||City colleges to serve as Covid care centres||With the spike in number of Covid-19 (coronavirus) cases in the city and as a precautionary measure, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has begun the process of turning colleges in the city into Covid care centres.Rubal Agarwal, PMC additional municipal commissioner, issued the order, on May 25 to take over institutes as per the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897 and Disaster Management Act, 2005.Institutes like Fergusson College; Garware College; SNDT College; Cummins College; Bharati Vidyapeeth, Kothrud; Symbiosis College, Vimannagar; MIT, Kothrud; Marathwada Engineering College and Bhartiya Jain Sansta College at Wagholi will be turned into Covid care centres, said officials.According to Agarwal, PMC has already started the recruitment process for new centres. However, the officials did not comment on what kind of facility centre will be created or how many beds will be available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/city-colleges-to-serve-as-covid-care-centres/story-ZTib1AXhVIyGaOiqwKCMTI.html
26-05-2020||Noida||Newborn dies as father made to take him to 3 govt hospitals||At a time when Uttar Pradesh officials and the district administration of Gautam Budh Nagar are daily claiming that their health care system is geared up to tackle any emergency, a newborn boy died in his father’s arms on Tuesday even as the desperate man was made to go from one government hospital to another in an effort to get treatment for his child. The distraught father said he had to wait for two hours for an ambulance to arrive and was made to go to three government hospitals with the sick baby. The newborn was finally declared dead at the third hospital, the Child PGI in Sector 30, on Tuesday morning.He later made a video narrating his ordeal, while returning home with the body of his child tied to his motorbike. The administration took the cognizance of the matter and said a team comprising two doctors will now look into it.According to Prem Kumar, a resident of Sector 36, Noida, his wife delivered a boy at a private hospital at 9.30pm on Monday. However, due to certain medical complications, the child was later referred to another hospital. The father and his uncle rushed to the neighbouring speciality hospital where the child was kept on life support, but Kumar said since he could not afford the expenses of that hospital, he called for an ambulance to go to the Dadri community health centre. “After multiple calls, even to the police, the ambulance arrived about two hours later. We took the child off the life support only to find that the ambulance did not have a functional oxygen cylinder on board. We somehow managed to reach Dadri CHC by midnight. The staff there refused to tend to my child and asked me to go to the government hospital in Noida,” Kumar said.“Upon reaching the Noida government hospital in Sector 30, the staff asked me to take the baby to the nearby Child PGI. But there was no one there to treat the baby and he was declared dead in the morning,” Kumar said.He said while the ambulance had an oxygen cylinder, it did not have the device to control the flow. “So when Dadri CHC turned us away, we had to make a detour to a private hospital and borrow the device. However, that device also did not work,” Kumar said.“At Child PGI, too, they did not tend to my baby for a long time and asked us to wait. A staffer placed my child on a stretcher and left. Running out of patience, I knocked on different cabins and, in one of them, we saw a few people sitting with stethoscopes around their neck. We requested them to help us. One of them got up and put the stethoscope on the baby’s chest and said he was dead. They then gave us a death certificate,” Kumar said.Kumar, who works at a private company in Greater Noida, said owing to the nationwide lockdown, he hadn’t got his salary for the past three months and hence could not afford the private hospital treatment costs. He sad he dialled all the health department helpline numbers he could find on the internet and the police’s helpline number too after the ambulance took a long time to arrive. “If I had ₹25,000, I could have got my son treated at a private hospital. We paid ₹8,000 to the hospital for a few hours of support,” he said.A comment could not be obtain from Gautam Budh Nagar chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri, who went to a meeting and later could not be reached despite numerous attempts. Subdivisional Magistrate, Dadri, Rajiv Rai also could not be reached despite repeated attempts. The district magistrate’s office when reached, said the DM is yet to comment on the incident.“CMO Ohri has taken the cognizance of the incident related to the death of a child due to medical negligence. Realising the gravity of the situation, a probe committee comprising district surveillance officer Dr Sunil Doherey and additional chief medical officer Dr Sanjeev Mangalik has been formed. Strict action will be taken against those responsible,” said district information officer Rakesh Chauhan in a statement .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/newborn-dies-as-father-made-to-take-him-to-3-govt-hospitals/story-SLbVNlDAoC6XXYUif5Zk2O.html
26-05-2020||Pune||These Pune shopkeepers too afraid to stay open despite no restrictions||Measures taken by the government to revive small and mediums business activity has received a lukewarm response. Though the guidelines allow non-essential shops to be open till 7pm, the spike in Covid-19 cases is keeping the shopkeepers from following the 7pm deadline.The lockdown relaxation seemed to have little or no effect in areas like Tilak road, Appa Balwant chowk, Shukrwar peth, Khadki and Aundh where some shops operated in the morning hours only.According to Fatechand Ranka, president of Pune Vyapari Mahasangh association (federation of Pune traders) rise in cases among shopkeepers is also one of the reasons. “So far 52 shopkeepers, traders and their close contacts have tested Covid positive,” he said.Last week, 41 close contacts of the seven employees of a medical wholesaler shop in Sadashiv peth tested positive. The close contacts reside in areas like like Sadashiv peth, Bibvewadi, Yerawada, Hadapsar, Dhankawadi, Sinhgad road and Aundh. Similarly a liquor shop owner who has two wine shops in Baner and Balewadi was tested positive last week.As of May 25, Pune has seen 264 deaths and 5,181 positive cases due to Covid-19.Ranka said, “We are working on all possible ways to restart businesses across Pune. But as the number of positive patients is rising every day we are worried. And then there are some cases where traders, shop owners and their family members have also tested positive. There are around 30,000 shop owners and traders in Pune and many of them are worried about getting infected.”Ranka said that safety guidelines have been issued to association members to enable them to keep their shops open during the day.Ashish Oswal, proprietor of a shop of household items near Shanipar chowk said he runs his from 10am to 2pm. “There are hardly any customers after 2 pm and we do not have any helpers in the shop,” he said, adding that he and his brother manage the shop after taking all precautions.Shriniwas Mane, owner of Himalaya Shoes at Appa Balwant chowk said he keeps his shop open from 10.30 am to 2.30 pm and none of his family members come to the shop, “I don’t want my elderly father or any other family member to take any risk,” he said.Rohan Nalawade, owner of Rohan Milk and dairy products on Tilak road said although his is an essential goods shop, he runs it only till 2pm or 3 pm, mainly because he does not wish to take any risk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/these-pune-shopkeepers-too-afraid-to-stay-open-despite-no-restrictions/story-FX9vSSMODDv890yRNN3ugK.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Corona effect: PG owners, small entrepreneurs battle for survival||Ajit Road in Bathinda, which till the end of March remained abuzz with student activities as it is home to over 150 IELTS training centres and over 250 PG accommodations, now bears a deserted look.Owing to coronavirus outbreak and the subsequent nationwide lockdown, the coaching institutes have been shut down since more than two months now.Scores of small time entrepreneurs, including juice-sellers, eatery owners, stationery shops, and gift shops, who were dependent on students visiting the city from Punjab and the adjoining states, are battling for survival.Many dhabas and PG accommodations have been closed down in the past few weeks. Sources said the coaching sector and allied businesses are yet to hear any word of support from the Bathinda legislator and state finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal.Arshdeep Singh Sidhu and Lovepreet Singh Thind, who run IELTS coaching institutes, complain of losing peak business season from April to September. “We cannot demand this, but it will be a goodwill gesture from the building owners if they waive off the pending rent. Bathinda is an academic coaching hub and state should have some relief plan for this sector,” said Thind.Sukhraj Singh, who had ventured into the business of PG accommodations for girl students two years back, has to close down operations earlier this month.“I had hired a spacious house to facilitate 25-30 girls. All was doing well till Covid-19 and lockdown hit the business. Students left the accommodation overnight in March. And uncertainty looms over the future of PGs. I will not be able to pay rent for the house while no one is coming up to stay there,” he said.Another entrepreneur Sharda Kapoor, who has taken a flat and two independent houses on rent, is also worried about the business that she had started 15 years back.“There has been no income in the last two months and the rental amounts are piling up. Soon, I will have to take a final decision,” she said.Tarun Chugh, 30, who prior to the lockdown used to remain busy through the day at his fresh juice shop on Ajit Road, hardly has any work to do these days. Chugh, who was successfully running operations since 2014, has seen a 90% decline in business. He had to cut his support staff from six persons to one.“Before lockdown, I made a daily average sale of Rs 30,000 and now it is not even Rs 3,000. Coaching institutes are closed, so I hardly have any customers coming in,” he said.Navneet Goyal, who owns a stationery shop, says order of closure of coaching institutes has severely hit our business. “IELTS training centres contribute a sizable amount to the local economy. I am facing over 85% loss in business,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/corona-effect-pg-owners-small-entrepreneurs-battle-for-survival/story-UfzDoHR2Mh8guXpAWOBEeM.html
26-05-2020||City||Bihar minister lands at ‘cycle’ girl’s village with zero distancing||DARBHANGA Bihar’s food and consumer protection minister and JD-U leader Madan Sahni has come under fire for flouting lockdown norms after he landed with a large crowd at the home of Jyoti Kumari, the 15-year-old girl from Darbhanga who has won admiration worldwide after she recently carried her injured father on a bicycle from Gurugram to her village here amid the Covid-19 lockdown.Sahni visited Sirhulli village on Monday to felicitate Jyoti, who pedalled for about 1,200 kilometres with her father, nursing a fractured leg, riding pillion, a feat that even drew a tweet of appreciation from US president Donald Trump’s daughter Ivanka. A video clip of the minister walking in procession in the village has since gone viral.Jyoti’s 14-day home quarantine period has yet not ended as she had arrived here in the night of May 16.Village ward member Nagendra Paswan said he had lost count of people visiting Sirhulli to felicitate her. “I have got a toilet built for her under government scheme in two days,” he said.Sahni could not be contacted for his comment despite repeated attempts.In a change of heart, Jyoti has now been considering the invitation extended to her by Cycling Federation of India (CFI) with all seriousness.Earlier, speaking to media, she had said she needed some time to be in right frame of mind to accept the trial offer to become a trainee cyclist and that she wanted to resume her studies.Jyoti said over phone on Tuesday that she had already started practising since the previous day. “I will participate in the trial when they (CFI) call me and fix a date for the trial next month”, she said, adding that she was practising on a racing cycle gifted to her recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bihar-minister-lands-at-cycle-girl-s-village-with-zero-distancing/story-4Pk8I1p5z39rv3XFzkjrTN.html
26-05-2020||City||Ghaziabad cops turn away commuters without passes at UP Gate, deny them entry to Delhi||Long jams were seen at UP Gate, where Ghaziabad shares a border with east Delhi, on Tuesday morning after the district police restricted movement of vehicles to the national capital on the orders of the Ghaziabad district magistrate.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey on Monday had issued directions once again restricting the movement of commuters to Delhi and said they will need passes if they wished to travel to Delhi. Those in the exempted categories will be allowed to cross the state lines, the DM said.“There were jams at the border as we conducted checks in compliance with the order of the district magistrate. We have opened the UP Gate and Anand Vihar-Kaushambi border for commuters, but people are allowed passage to Delhi only on the basis of passes issued by the administration,” Anshu Jain, Indirapuram’s circle officer, said.“So far, we have allowed passage to vehicles involved in essential services over the flyover at UP Gate. Below the flyover, we are trying to create separate lanes for different categories of commuters. The plan will be put in place after discussions,” she said.Jaivir Singh from Vaishali in Ghaziabad, one of those stuck at UP Gate on Tuesday, said he was not allowed entry to Delhi.“I reached the border, but was sent back by cops who said I need a valid to go to Delhi. The Delhi government has opened its offices and the Ghaziabad police are not allowing us to cross the borders even though I showed them my official ID,” Singh, who works with the municipal corporation of Delhi, said.“So, I turned back after waiting for about an hour at UP Gate in the scorching heat,” he added. He said for the past about a week, the movement at the border was easy.Like Singh, Neeraj Kumar also goes to Delhi’s Lajpat Nagar, where he works with a private company involved in the sale of cars.“The police did not allow me entry to Delhi and I had to return home. They asked me to apply for a pass in order to travel to Delhi. I will now ait for my office to arrange it,” Kumar, a resident of Sanjay Nagar, Ghaziabad, said.“Generally, we find jams at the border while coming home in the evening as police strict about checking IDs before letting us pass. On Tuesday, they have started similar checks in the morning as well. Many commuters were told to turn back,” Kumar said.The Ghaziabad administration on Monday restricted movement between Delhi and Ghaziabad citing an increase in Covid-19 cases with links to Delhi, especially since the beginning of May.Vehicles engaged in essential services have been allowed to move without any restrictions while doctors, paramedics, police and bank employees will be asked to produce their identification cards.Likewise, media persons and lawyers can also cross the borders after showing their identity cards. However, employees of private firms with offices in Delhi will have to apply for passes.The order also states that commuters are advised to leave Ghaziabad maximum by 9am and return only after 6pm. Officials said those wanting to travel to Delhi can apply for passes at http://164.100.68.164/upepass2/.Officials said Monday’s direction was an extension of the May 18 lockdown 4.0 guidelines issued by the Uttar Pradesh government. Under the May 18 directions of chief secretary RK Tiwari, commuters from Delhi, other than those from hotspots, were allowed to travel to the National Capital Region (NCR) areas of Noida and Ghaziabad and the district administration was asked to issue detailed directions in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-cops-turn-away-commuters-without-passes-at-up-gate-deny-them-entry-to-delhi/story-Q4OVO9UsV6SuPo5fNH3pzH.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Teen arrested with country-made pistol in Chandigarh village||The crime branch of Chandigarh Police arrested a youth with an illegal country -made pistol from Mauli Jagran on Tuesday. As per police, they apprehended a youth at a naka near Vikas Nagar light-point in Mauli Jagran, and a pistol was recovered from him. Upon checking, police found that the youth identified as Deepak Pandey, 19, lives in Mauli village, and has a criminal background with a case of attempt to murder registered against him at the Sector 14 police station in Panchkula. Pandey dropped out of school after class 9 and is currently unemployed. A case has been registered against him under the Arms Act and he will be presented in court on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/teen-arrested-with-country-made-pistol-in-chandigarh-village/story-aoE0lV1UCNorn2kZ0X32zI.html
26-05-2020||City||Fraudsters using police’s e-challaning system as bait to dupe vehicle owners||Fraudsters are using e-challaning system, initiated by traffic police, as bait to dupe people in the city by sending messages on their mobile phones that they have been issued challans for traffic violation and mentioning a website address to pay the fine online.The district police have initiated an investigation and engaged the cyber cell to trace the accused.Many people have received such messages during the past three days. When they contacted the traffic police, officials said they had not issued any challans to them.According to sources, the miscreants are getting details and contact numbers of vehicle owners from mobile phone applications. The miscreants are sending messages to contact numbers with vehicle numbers as well.The fraudsters have also added a fake link https://echallanparivahan.in to pay fine of Rs 500 online. While the actual website is https://echallan.parivahan.gov.in.Hunny Arora, a resident, said, “While I was travelling from Jalandhar to Ludhiana, I received a message saying he has been issued a challan for not wearing a seatbelt, but I always wear the belt while driving.”Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said, “People are reportedly making payment against challans, which have not even been issued to them. It is believed fraudsters have managed to get original vehicle registration numbers from some service agency. The cyber cell of the police has already started investigation in these cases. The police will soon trace the accused and block the fake website address.” He added the district police send e-challan through post in which the original website is mentioned for payment. He appealed to city residents to verify all the details after receiving such messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fraudsters-using-police-s-e-challaning-system-as-bait-to-dupe-vehicle-owners/story-UojkGxS3EhGyqWmDvZma4K.html
26-05-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka govt to open temples from June 1||Karnataka Government on Tuesday decided to open temples from June 1 and will soon issue a Standard Operating Protocol that needs to be followed by the people.“Karnataka govt has decided to open temples from June 1. Standard Operating Protocol to be followed, which will be issued. We’ll make necessary arrangements till May 31,” said Kota Srinivas Poojari, State Minister for Muzrai department.The Minister said online Seva booking will start from May 27 in 52 temples.“But no permission for fairs, religious conference,” the minister added. Poojari on May 23 had said that poojas conducted at temples across the state would soon go online for devotees as temples cannot be opened till lockdown ends.Meanwhile, Karnataka reported 100 fresh cases of Covid-19 from 5 pm of May 25 to 12 pm today, taking the total number of positive cases to 2,282.The total number of active cases has risen to 1,514 with 44 deaths, state Health Department said in a release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-govt-to-open-temples-from-june-1/story-SyFNv3dwYDqfA9usSp2IIJ.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||In corona times, water crisis adds to woes in Chandigarh villages||“The government is emphatic that we wash our hands every half an hour to keep the coronavirus at bay. But how do we stay safe when we don’t have enough water even for drinking or cooking?” asked Ajay Pandey, resident of Daria, a village on the periphery of Chandigarh, where several localities have been struggling with water scarcity for two weeks now.Pandey was among several others who, with their empty buckets, gathered near Boriwali Gali Tubewell in Daria Colony on Tuesday evening to protest water scarcity. Their struggle to get water is far greater than their need to take precautions.Raje Da Bagh and Sunrise School Colony, where more than 500 families live, are some of the other localities in a water crisis, said Daria’s former sarpanch Gupreet Singh Happy.Speaking on the issue, Chandigarh civic body’s junior engineer, Jatinder Walia, said most areas where water supply is erratic fall outside the lal dora area of the village, where people have illegally punctured water pipes. “But the situation is expected to ease as we have increased operational hours of tubewells,” he said.Area volunteer Sunil Singh said these were lame excuses as 90% of the population outside lal dora has legal water connections. “The issue is the rapid increase in population. The water available is inadequate its distribution is poor,” he added.“Till the time our village gets water from the canal, there will always be water scarcity in summer,” said former sarpanch Gurpeet Singh.Daria is not the only area affected by the erratic supply of clean drinking water. Residents of Sanjay Colony near the Industrial Area also held a protest against water scarcity in their area last Friday. Area councillor Shakti Prakash Devshali said the colony’s only source of water is through the stand post even as the demand has reached its peak due to the summer. “I am trying my best to arrange MC tankers for the area,” he said.Complaints of water shortage are also pouring in daily from Hallomajra, Ram Darbar, Kishangarh, Palsora, Dhanas and Maloya.Satish Kainth, the Congress councillor representing Palsora, said the municipal corporation has spent ₹200 crore to bring an additional 29 MGD canal water but the city’s distribution system is in peril. “Urban pockets of Chandigarh are well connected to canal water supply. But there is no such system in villages and colonies, where supply is inadequate as there are only a few tubewells,” he informed.“Moreover, authorities are not strengthening water infrastructure outside lal dora, claiming that construction in such areas is illegal. However, if most residents there have legal water connections, how can the MC or UT deny them their right to clean water?” Kainth questioned.Kishangarh resident Narinder Lubana said there were only two tubewells for 22,000 residents of Kishangarh village (behind Sukhna Lake). “We have been asking MC to install more tubewells for the last two years but all in vain,” he said. “Those who can afford it bring private tankers, while others struggle to get water every day,” he said.During the Tuesday review meeting, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore directed the MC commissioner KK Yadav to ensure adequate drinking water supply to the city. “Tankers should be dispatched, wherever necessary,” he said further.While Yadav could not be reached, MC chief engineer Shailender Singh said tankers are being sent to areas affected by water scarcity. “We will increase the frequency,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/in-corona-times-water-crisis-adds-to-woes-in-chandigarh-villages/story-gFjH2zgZX2p5JYWWueo4RM.html
26-05-2020||City||10 yrs on, residents of Zirakpur housing project await completion certificates||Even though Zirakpur municipal corporation has not issued completion certificates to two housing projects—Aastha Apartment (Phases 1 and 2)—which were approved in December 2006 and March 2007 respectively, the builders have already given possession to around 125 allottees starting from 2009. The builder had assured allottees that completion and occupation certificates would be provided in due course for these apartments built on Nabha–Babhat road in Zirakpur.However, more than a decade on, the builder has not completed the project as per sanctioned plan, stirring up much resentment among the allottees. Both housing projects comprise a total of 154 flats in seven towers–66 flats in three towers of phase 1 and 88 flats in four towers of phase 2.As per the norm, possession of flats can only be given after obtaining completion and occupation certificates.In the past 10 years or so, the builder has not constructed a tubewell for phase 2, and the sewerage treatment plant (STP) installed for phase 1 is also not functional. As per building bylaws, two lifts were to be installed in each tower, but the developer has provided only one. Additionally, the builder has illegally constructed a series of shops along the boundary wall, which was not part of the sanctioned project. In another discrepancy, the projects were given joint facilities whereas both projects had individual facilities in the plan. In September 2017, residents of phase 2 also moved Punjab and Haryana Court requesting for completion of development work as per sanctioned plan and removal of violations, following which the court directed Zirakpur MC that until occupation/ completion certificates were not provided to the developer, the latter is liable to pay all cost charges and expenses for common facilities to authorities such as MC and the power department. However, the builder has not adhered to the court directive either.Gulshan Rai, an allottee, said that in December 2018, a written complaint was lodged against the builder to the chief vigilance officer of local bodies department, but still no action was taken. Surprisingly, the builder has even claimed a deduction of around ₹6 crore of income tax on the income derived from this housing project for assessment years 2007-08, 2008-09 and 2009-10 under Section 80 (IB) of IT Act, he said.When contacted, one of the project owners, Sanjeev Garg, said, “We have applied for occupation and completion certificates, but my partners will know more about the details.” When asked as to on what grounds was possession given to allottees without the requisite certificates, he said they had given the documents to allottees about 10 years ago, and refused to comment further.Executive officer of Kharar MC, Sandeep Tiwari, said he had only recently joined the office and would definitely look into it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-yrs-on-residents-of-zirakpur-housing-project-await-completion-certificates/story-O8nLLBv886zTE3C56ifWlL.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Two arrested with 40 gram intoxicant powder in Kharar||Two men were arrested with 40 gram intoxicant power from a naka in Kharar, police said on Tuesday. The accused have been identified as Ranbir Singh, a resident of Phase 7, Industrial Area, Mohali, and Anil Sharma of Sector 40D, Chandigarh. Sukhbir Singh, station house officer of Kharar (sadar), said the accused were arrested on the basis of a tip-off while they were coming from Santemajra village on Monday. On searching, police found 20 gram intoxicant powder from each of the accused, he said. They were produced before a court and sent to three-day remand. A case has been registered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-arrested-with-40-gram-intoxicant-powder-in-kharar/story-8SMr6fTlHRAhuJkFACWs1O.html
26-05-2020||City||Low customer turnout marks first day of market reopening in Ghaziabad||Even as the markets in Ghaziabad reopened after a gap of two months, most shops in the trans-Hindon areas witnessed a low turnout of customers on Tuesday. Tuesday was the first day when the markets in the areas resumed sales after the district administration eased the restrictions in the fourth phase of the lockdown.On May 22, district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey had directed that certain markets, out of a total of 34, will open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday while others will open on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. He had also given two days to shop owners to finish cleaning and sanitization work.“As per our estimates, only 10 to 15% customers as compared to normal days arrived for shopping today and purchased items of regular use like shoes, slippers, readymade clothes, fans, coolers, etc. However, customers stayed away from shops selling snacks and other food items,” said Pradeep Gupta, convener of Vyapari Ekta Samiti, Indirapuram.“The timing is also a cause of concern as markets have been allowed to open only from 10am to 5pm, while during the summers most people prefer to arrive in the evenings. So, the sales will be affected largely,” Gupta said.The markets in Indirapuram, Vaishali, Sahibabad, Bajaria, Gandhi Nagar, Nehru Nagar, Mohan Nagar, Shastri Nagar and Turab Nagar, among others, will open on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday.The markets allowed to open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday are the ones located in Vasundhara, Kaushambi, Raj Nagar District Centre, Kavi Nagar, Rajendra Nagar, Shyam Park, Raj Nagar Extension, Navyug Market, Ambedkar Road and those in Delta colonies of Ramprastha, Brij Vihar, Surya Nagar and Chander Nagar.Shop owners like RK Agrawal who runs a tiles store in Indirapuram’s Gyan Khand, said that there was no business at all on Tuesday.“The summer heat is taking a toll and alternate day opening of markets is also a concern. It is because a customer takes days to decide about purchasing non-essential items. Nowadays, people have less money in hand. So, most of them only prefer purchasing essential items. As per my estimates, it will take another six months for markets to pick up,” he added.The market association of Vaishali said that there was about 40% turnout of customers on Tuesday.“The sweet shops also opened and owners were relieved as the administration has allowed opening of such shops on all six days. The shop owners made arrangements for social distancing and provided sanitizer to customers. Even some district administration officers arrived in the market for inspection. However, the closure of border affected opening of shops as a number of owners stay in Delhi,” said Sanjay Rastogi, president of Vaishali Udyog Vyapar Mandal.According to Rastogi, the locality has about 600 to 700 shops in market areas.However, in city areas, the turnout of customers in markets was high as compared to the trans-Hindon areas.“The customers turned out in large numbers despite heat wave conditions. Our market witnessed a footfall of about 60-65% as compared to normal days. People were a bit confused whether to move out to markets or not, as markets are generally closed on Tuesday in Ghaziabad. This is why many customers might not have come for shopping,” said Rajneesh Bansal, chairman of Turab Nagar Vyapar Mandal.Some residents were seen buying daily use items in Vaishali and other markets.“The markets have reopened after two months. So, I came to purchase garments, cosmetics and kitchen items. The rest of items I purchased online during the lockdown days. Due the heat wave, I made only specific purchases,” said Pooja Negi, a resident of Vaishali.Neelam Verma, a resident of Nehru Nagar, said, “I went out to buy T-shirts for my children and some readymade garments for summer. I have used face mask and also carried a sanitizer bottle. The shopping was time taking due to social distancing precautions.” According to the official estimates, the Ghaziabad city has a presence of about 1.5-2 lakh shops, including standalone and those in market areas.“We have deployed team of inspectors to do rounds in markets. The overall customer turnout was low at about 10%. It was very low in areas like Indirapuram and Vaishali. However, the shop owners were particular about social distancing initiatives and sanitizers were made available at shops for customers,” said Rajesh Kumar, district labour commissioner.“The timing of closing of shops cannot be extended now as the movement is not allowed from 7pm to 7am as per the lockdown guidelines,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/low-customer-turnout-marks-first-day-of-market-reopening-in-ghaziabad/story-skHuYrhHOXX6iPORl9lVXO.html
26-05-2020||Noida||As migrants leave city, Noida shuts one of five community kitchens||With a drastic fall in the number of migrant workers, including construction labourers, daily wage earners and their dependents, the district administration has shut down one of its five community kitchens set up at a Shani temple at the Delhi-Noida border.During the peak of the lockdown period, the Noida authority had served food to 1.3 lakh migrant workers daily. However, presently, only less than 40% of the dependents need free food from kitchens, said officials.“We have decided to shut down a community kitchen at the Shani temple because most of the migrants who were depended on this facility are not turning up for free food. Earlier, we were cooking food for at least 600 people at this facility. But now, most of them may have either gone back to their respective home towns or have gone back to their work,” said Avinash Tripathi, officer on special duty of the Noida authority.The authority officials said that less than 40% the people now need food across the city in different areas.The Noida authority is running four community kitchens in the district in areas such as Harola, Sector 5, Bhangel, Sorkha and Mamura. When the government announced the nationwide lockdown with the aim of preventing the spread of Covid-19 infection, the Noida authority had started these kitchens to distribute fresh food for the migrants, who were left jobless.But the Uttar Pradesh government on May 18 decided to resume operations at factories, construction sites and other businesses. The government also started providing transport facilities to the migrants so that they can go back to their respective home towns. The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration and other agencies have sent back more than 80,000 migrants already.“We believe that most of them have back gone to their home towns and others have returned to their respective jobs,” said Tripathi.The authority officials said that migrants are leaving the city daily and their numbers are decreasing very fast. If all these migrants leave, we will shut down all the kitchens. As per data available, till May 24, the authority has distributed 1,07,376 food packets to migrant workers. An additional 50 lakh food packets were distributed by self help groups, developers, private firms, corporate houses and individuals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/as-migrants-leave-city-noida-shuts-one-of-five-community-kitchens/story-l7PDymg6htso2SqRq91hjL.html
26-05-2020||Noida||3 new Covid-19 cases in UP’s Gautam Buddh Nagar; total 362||Three more people, including a government hospital staff, tested positive for coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar on Tuesday, pushing the number of cases in the district to 362, officials said. Also, nine people were discharged from hospitals after being cured and the number of active cases now stands at 113, they said. “On Tuesday, three people have been found positive for Covid-19 and total positive cases till date stand at 362. Nine patients were discharged on Tuesday and a total of 244 patients have recovered so far. There are 113 active cases now,” District Surveillance Officer Sunil Dohare said. Among the new patients are a 20-year-old man from the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida, a 38-year-old man from Gijhod village and a 39-year-old woman from Salarpur, both in Noida, the officer said. Nine patients were discharged on Tuesday, of which one was admitted to the Sharda Hospital, two were in the Child PGI in Sector 30 Noida, and six were in GIMS, he said in a statement. The recovery rate of patients in the district now stands at 67.40 per cent, according to official statistics. Gautam Buddh Nagar adjoining Delhi in western Uttar Pradesh has so far recorded five deaths, all of them male aged above 60 years, according to the officials. The district also got Kailash Hospital in Greater Noida as a new Covid-19 isolation centre on Tuesday, taking the number of such facilities to four with a total 500 beds, as per officials. The private-run Kailash Hospital has 100 beds in its COVID-19 isolation facility, of which two are currently occupied, the administration said. The three other facilities are the Sharda Hospital with 200 beds, of which 47 are occupied, the Child PGI at Sector 30 in Noida with 50 beds, of which 17 are occupied and the GIMS with 150 beds, of which 57 are occupied, it said. “Currently 113 beds are occupied out of the total 500 available beds. District is prepared to take care of positive patients in an effective way,” it said in a statement. Gautam Buddh Nagar at present has 79 containment zones and 47 of them in category-I and the rest in category-II, according to officials. Category I containment zones are those where only a radius of 250 metres, or the entire mohalla, has been designated as a containment zone. Category-II zones have a radius of 500 metres along with a buffer of 250 metres, they said. Containment zones will have restricted in and out movement except for emergency cases and essential services. Only healthcare personnel, sanitation workers and door-step delivery services are allowed in such areas, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/3-new-covid-19-cases-in-up-s-gautam-buddh-nagar-total-362/story-qCdKOw2usmD28Q4A7W9S5K.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Out on parole, murder accused kills AAP worker in SBS Nagar||A murder accused, who was out on parole, allegedly killed an Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) worker, with the help of his two aides at Mazara Khurd in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar (SBS Nagar) late on Monday evening. The deceased has been identified as Paramjit Singh, 43, of Ranewal village in the district. The accused, Gurmukh Singh, his nephew Charanjit Singh and Talwinder Singh, a police constable, are also residents of the same village. As per the first information report (FIR), Paramjit and Pritam, who were riding scooters, were hit by a jeep from the rear. Both Paramjit and Pritam suffered injuries. Police said Charanjit was driving the jeep while Gurmukh was on the co-driver’s seat. While Paramjit succumbed to his injuries at a private hospital, Pritam still under treatment. Police officials said that Charanjit had a personal enmity with Paramjit. Sub-inspector Manohar Lal said: “Gurmukh is on parole in a murder case while we have named a police constable as accused in the case as Paramjit’s family accused him of conspiracy. All are accused are still absconding but we will arrest them very soon,” he said. A case under Sections 302 (murder), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and other relevant sections of the IPC has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/out-on-parole-murder-accused-kills-aap-worker-in-sbs-nagar/story-DkyGMdmk9htQ7oNJunkbnO.html
26-05-2020||City||PSIEC MD, officials visit Hi-Tech Cycle Valley project site at Ludhiana village||The Hero Cycles Limited is striving hard to complete the Hi-Tech Cycle Valley project at Dhanansu village and is likely to commence commercial production much before the target period of three years by April 13, 2022.This was stated by managing director, Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC), Sumeet Jarangal, who visited the valley site along with senior officials of the corporation and other departments on Tuesday. Vice-chairman of Hero Cycles Limited SK Rai and other senior officials of the company were also present on the occasion. The company officials highlighted some important issues requiring the PSIEC’s attention. Jarangal said the PSIEC had embarked upon its ambitious project of development of the valley in an area of 380 acres of land and, out of which, 100-acre land had already been allotted to Hero Cycle on December 21, 2018. He said that the possession of the entire site was delivered on April 14, 2019. “The company has already constructed the boundary wall, site office and the internal development of the plot is in progress. Upon completion of the project, the company will generate employment opportunities for 3,000-5,000 people,” he said.He said, “To provide uninterrupted power supply to the valley, 30-acre land has been allotted to the PSPCL for the setting up of a 400kva substation, the work of internal development of remaining 250 acres that is roads, storm drains, sewerage system, electrical trench, water supply network has been started at the site and will be completed within 15 months that is by August 31, 2021, the construction of a concrete approach road and a high-level bridge over the Buddha Nullah is in progress and the same will be completed by December 31, 2020.”Jarangal said, “The PSIEC is now planning to put up a 50-acre undeveloped chunk of land on e-auction very soon. All-out efforts are being made to make up for the delay due to curfew/lockdown owing to Covid-19. Various executing agencies are given targeted timelines for the completion of the project.” He also assured all timely inputs by the corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/psiec-md-officials-visit-hi-tech-cycle-valley-project-site-at-ludhiana-village/story-UBKeAJtH9QALogspkh7NHK.html
26-05-2020||City||‘Party’ at Lodhi Club in Ludhiana amid lockdown sparks controversy||With seven executive members of the Lodhi Club allegedly getting together inside the club for a party amid lockdown on Sunday, the coveted organisation has landed in a controversy. Deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Agrawal, who is president of the club, has sought a report to initiate further action. The members have, however, claimed that it was a meeting and they only had lunch inside the club. The clubs have been closed in the city due to lockdown and the security superviser, who was deputed at the club on Sunday and captured the incident in his mobile phone, has not been ‘approachable’ since Monday as per the club authorities. The members had, however, got the video deleted from his mobile phone and allegedly terminated his services. The executive members, excluding general secretary Nitin Mahajan and two women members, entered the club with food and they were captured in the CCTV cameras moving out of the club with a beer case. Mahajan said, “They are looking into the CCTV footage, but there was no CCTV in the party hall. The security superviser deputed at the club on that day is not approachable. It was also said that services of the superviser were terminated after he tried to record the incident in the mobile phone, but no such incident has come to my notice so far.”“Members concerned have claimed that they went to the club for a meeting, which was called by sports secretary Dr Avinash Jindal for reviewing some projects of the club and they only had lunch, brought by one of the members from his house. In the CCTV footage, members were seen moving out with a beer case, but they said that the beer had expired and they took out the same for destroying it. I will submit my report with DC Agrawal on Wednesday,” said Mahajan, adding that further action has to be taken by the DC. Agrawal said the general secretary has been asked to record the facts in a report, following which further action would be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/party-at-lodhi-club-in-ludhiana-amid-lockdown-sparks-controversy/story-wBjoDGAoBPtxXa6pghCqxK.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Truck driver involved in hit-and-run death arrested from UP||Police have cracked the May 17 hit-and-run case in which a local youth, Jasnoor Singh, was killed after a truck hit his motorcycle on Nakodar-Nurmahal road. Police took the help of CCTV camera footage to identify the truck (UP 86 T 4646).Senior superintendent of police Navjot Singh Mahal said the truck coming from wrong side had hit Jasnoor’s motorcycle. The driver of the truck sped off from the spot and an FIR was registered on the statement of victim’s father Satinder Singh.The Nakodar (Sadar) police traced the truck with the help of CCTV camera footage. He said the truck was found registered in Hathras district of Uttar Pradesh in the name of one Praveen Kumar. On May 23, a Punjab Police team went to UP, impounded the truck and arrested the driver, identified as Amit Kumar of Hathras.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/truck-driver-involved-in-hit-and-run-death-arrested-from-up/story-xBdkVXPckT1HgZ9omEh2aL.html
26-05-2020||City||Liquor vends flout lockdown norms, remain open after 6pm Bathinda||Liquor traders, who opened vends in Punjab only after vehemently raising the issue of expected losses due to coronavirus, are flouting the lockdown guidelines by keeping vends open after the permissible time. Defying guidelines, many liquor vends can be found open even at 8pm at several places. In the lockdown 4.0, liquor vends have been allowed to open from 7am to 6pm. In lockdown 3.0 from May 4 to 17, the Punjab government allowed opening of liquor vends from May 7. But the traders opted to keep the vends closed for over a week demanding that state government compensates them for loss of business due to closure of vends due to the lockdown. Traders starting opening vends from May 14 after chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh formed a panel of officials to asses losses to traders due to lockdown. The CM had also approved the finance department’s recommendation to provide proportionate adjustment of ‘minimum guarantee quota’ for the losses incurred in the 9 days of lockdown in March (2.5% cut from total revenue quota of Rs 5,675 crore), which comes out to Rs 141 crore. In the current financial year, relaxation of 10% (Rs 620 crore) was approved of a total of Rs 6,200 crore revenue projection.A reality check shows that vends remain open for hours at several places in the city even after 6 pm. This, despite the fact that owners of other shops, many of which sell essential commodities, close their shops by 6pm and administration also make sure that these shops are closed by this time. However, there is no check on liquor vends timing. There are police check posts near many liquor vends in Bathinda city. Deputy commissioner B Srinivasan couldn’t be contacted despite repeated attempts. Assistant excise and taxation commissioner, Bathinda, RK Malhotra said that liquor vends are supposed to do business from 7am to 6pm. A liquor trader, however, said that a majority of liquor sale is done in the evening so it is not possible for them to shut vends by 6pm. Traders had already been claiming that reduced number of hours to keep open vends will also cause financial loss to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/liquor-vends-flout-lockdown-norms-remain-open-after-6pm-bathinda/story-HIVV9gmu3Swf0hAqF3GRyL.html
26-05-2020||City||Parents hold bike rally against school for charging fee during lockdown in Ludhiana||For charging fee during the lockdown, around 50 parents of students studying in Shamrock Christian Senior Secondary School, Hambran Road, held a bike rally from the school till deputy commissioner office on Tuesday.In a memorandum to deputy commissioner Pradeep Aggarwal, parents asked for relief during this time of financial crises. Meanwhile, in a letter submitted to the school administration, they demanded the school not to charge the fee as classes were not conducted for two months.“Your staff members send the homework through WhatsApp, which is not online study. Parents themselves are helping their children with the syllabus. Therefore, the fee demanded by you is illegal and amounts to unfair trade practice and cheating,” the memorandum read. The parents also demanded the school not to charge any annual fee and said, “We don’t want to purchase the books from the school. Rather than giving us discounts at such a time, they are charging more than the market rates.”Hemant Kumar, whose son studies in Class 3, said, “Even after the recent Punjab and Haryana high court order, which has allowed the school to charge 70% of the total fee, this school is asking us to pay the full amount by May 31. The DC has assured us that he will look into the matter.”Pradeep Singh, principal of the school, however, said that the parents will have to pay the fee. “Our teachers have worked hard throughout the lockdown to give online classes to students, but their salaries for April are still pending. Parents can pay the fee in any way, monthly, bimonthly or quarterly. There will be no concession in that,” she said. On the issue of charges of books, she said that all the books from class 6 to 12 are from NCERT and the parents don’t wish to purchase them from the school, can buy them anywhere from the market since they are easily available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/parents-hold-bike-rally-against-school-for-charging-fee-during-lockdown-in-ludhiana/story-Kg04P10oXPfUaqpQYn1CAI.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Crop diversification: More farmers opt for cotton in Punjab||The Punjab government on Tuesday said its crop diversification programme has received a massive response from farmers with the state nearly accomplishing its goal to bring 12.5 lakh acres of land under cotton cultivation.Additional chief secretary (ACS), development, Viswajeet Khanna said the diversification of the cropping pattern away from paddy helps save water improve soil fertility and avoid winter stubble burning, thus preserving and improving the environment in a very substantial way. The state had recorded sowing of cotton over an area of 10 lakh acres so far and the set target would be achieved very soon, he said in a statement. Last year, cotton was sown over 9.7 lakh acres of land.Khanna said the agriculture department had made timely and adequate arrangement of fertiliser and hybrid seeds of BT Cotton well in advance to ensure seamless sowing of cotton crop across the state amid curfew/lockdown due to Covid-19. “Bathinda district has recorded maximum sowing of 3.39 lakh acres followed by Fazilka with 2.38 lakh acres and 2.1 lakh acres in Mansa,” he said. The agriculture department has also coordinated with the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) to buy last season’s remaining cotton produce from farmers at the assured MSP and for this 19 markets have already been made operational in the cotton belt.The ACS, development, said the department had also started a vigorous campaign to remove weeds (host plants of white fly) from vacant plots, roadside and open grounds. All chief agriculture officers have been directed to complete this task in a mission mode, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/crop-diversification-more-farmers-opt-for-cotton-in-punjab/story-ld2S23K7wikAF6saBf87YL.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Ex-minister’s sons held with illicit liquor, stolen car, arms||The Dhuri police arrested two sons of a former minister and recovered 190 litres of ‘lahan’ (raw material for illicit liquor), a stolen car and illegal weapons from them on Tuesday.Dhuri deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Rashpal Singh Dhindsa said the police raided a farmhouse of Late Surinder Singh at Qila Hakima on May 24 and recovered 190 litres of ‘lahan’ from an Innova (PB13-AB 2625) and arrested Harkawalpreet Singh but Ramanjot Singh and another accused Bahadur Singh managed to flee.“On May 25, the police arrested Ramanjot Singh with a car while carrying a carbine, 15 cartridges and a 12 bore double-barrel rifle from Dhuri. Harkanwal and Ramanjot are sons of late Surinder Singh, a former MLA from Dhuri,” added the DSP. Surinder Singh was also a minister in the Surjit Singh Barnala government in 1985.A case under Sections 61 of the Excise Act, 25 of the Arms Act and 411, 412 and 420 of the IPC has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ex-minister-s-sons-held-with-illicit-liquor-stolen-car-arms/story-v4jLKHHrzF9alQO0aacSXO.html
26-05-2020||City||Hope for the best, but prepare for the worst: Khattar||Haryana chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday hinted that more relaxations with limitations might be given to the private sector, especially industries, hotels and restaurants, in the state June 1 onwards. “Hope for the best, but prepare for the worst should be our mantra to deal with any situation arising in the future,” he said. “Nothing can be predicted about what will happen in next two to three months. This pandemic has taught us a lot. We should be ready to make lifestyle changes to move forward,” he added. Khattar said about 28 lakh people working in the private sector have returned to their jobs. “Hotels and restaurants have been allowed to resume home delivery. More relaxations could be in the offing after reviewing the situation by May 31,” he added.He said the number of Covid infected persons rose to 1,200 in the state, but situation in Haryana was far better than neighbouring Delhi, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. “We took measures and Delhi objected to them earlier, but now the situation is under control,” Khattar said. On the issue of private school fees, the chief minister said, “Fee is the only source of income of such schools. They have to meet expenses and pay salaries to their teachers and other staff.” Talking about payment to farmers, he admitted that there was a delay due to change in the system. “We are expecting that all the pending dues will soon be cleared.” About the movement of migrant labourers, he said state government had provided all support to the migrants. “Three lakh workers have already been sent, whereas about two lakh made their own arrangements. The government has also got requests from about 1 lakh more labourers and they will be sent back to their home states soon,” he added. On alleged atrocities on Hindus in Nuh, the chief minister said, “The matter was brought to my knowledge by Vishva Hindu Parishad. The situation is being monitored closely by the local police and action will be taken if anybody was found harming social harmony.” CM URGES FARMERS TO ADOPT DIVERSIFICATIONIn Kurukshetra earlier in the day, Khattar held a meeting to check depleting ground water level in the state. He also took feedback from selected farmers about the steps taken by the government for crop diversification. “The groundwater table has gone below 40 metres in several blocks, which is a matter of concern. The farmers should come forward to take advantage of the schemes announced by the government for crop diversification,” Khattar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hope-for-the-best-but-prepare-for-the-worst-khattar/story-xtFpZeZeAA78zgmb5dIxeL.html
26-05-2020||City||Farmer’s body seeks probe into spurious paddy seed scam||Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU-Lakhowal) general secretary Harinder Singh Lakhowal has demanded a probe by an independent agency into the alleged paddy seed scam by shop owners.He said the probe report should be submitted within 15 days and stringent action be taken against the accused.He said farmers of the state have been looted by a nexus of officials and spurious seed manufacturing agencies.Lakhowal said, “PAU sold only 250 quintals of PR 128 variety of rice seed and 3,000 quintals of PR 129 variety at Rs 70 per kg. But, private shop owners were selling spurious seed by claiming it to be that of PR 128 and PR 129 for Rs 200 to Rs 250 per kg.”He said the agricultural department’s raid on two shops selling spurious seed was merely an eyewash.After the recovery of a huge cache of spurious seed, no statewide raids were conducted and no efforts were made to find out how thousands of tons of counterfeit seed managed to reach the market. Lakhowal said even in the past, his union activists had caught shop owners selling spurious seed.“We had caught a shop owner in Bathinda for selling spurious seed. Similarly, a pesticide seller was caught red-handed selling fake pesticide meant for sugarcane. But, in both the cases, culprits was let off by department officials,” said Lakhowal.PAU had urged farmers not to buy spurious seed and recommended that only the seed of the varieties produced by PAU should be used by the farmers and that farmers should also not be misled by unrealistic yield claims made by seed sellers.The advisory by PAU has been issued in the backdrop of a raid conducted by agriculture and farmers’ welfare department of Punjab on Brar Seed Store situated opposite the university’s gate number 1 on May 11, for selling spurious seed. The officials confiscated seed samples, bill books and other documents. Besides, the police had also registered a case under Section 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code and initiated investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmer-s-body-seeks-probe-into-spurious-paddy-seed-scam/story-qcIZof7j8xPbI61wV8K8AI.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Hisar youth hacked to death by 2 friends||A youth identified as Deepak was murdered in Devigarh Punia village of Barwala subdivision here on Monday night. Two persons, Ram Niwas and Mohit, have been arrested for his murder, police said on Tuesday. Hisar police spokesperson said the victim was a friend of the accused, “but their friendship turned sour over a woman”. He said the accused called Deepak to a playground, where they attacked him with a sharp-edged weapon, killing him on the spot. Barwala station house officer (SHO) Kuldeep Singh said Ram Niwas and Mohit hatched a conspiracy to kill Deepak after the latter started interfering in the friendship between a woman and one of the accused (Ram Niwas). The SHO said they have recovered the weapon used in the crime and arrested both the accused, who will be produced in a local court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hisar-youth-hacked-to-death-by-2-friends/story-TgKf7WWHgiMDcEDGnjKtEO.html
26-05-2020||City||Punjab, Haryana may have crossed the peak in coronavirus cases: Expert||Punjab, Haryana and Kerala seem to have crossed the peak in coronavirus cases, says a prominent public health specialist, who expects India to keep Covid-19 deaths at less than 8,000 in the country with strict enforcement of standard protocols and hospitals in high alert.India should not be seen as one entity when it comes to tackling Covid-19, because the population size across sates and districts vary, health systems vary and level of literacy varies across and within states, said professor GVS Murthy, director of Indian Institute of Public Health, Hyderabad.Therefore, it will be more appropriate to talk about state-level and district-level peaks, he said.As against total cases per million population, which increased in India from 17.6 cases per million on April 25 to 99.9 per million on May 25, in Maharashtra it rose from 61.9/ million in April to 383/ million on May 25, Professor Murthy noted.In Tamil Nadu it increased from 23.4 per million on April 25 to 199.3 per million on May 25, and in Gujarat from 48.1 per million in April to 219 per million on May 25. Delhi has shown the steepest increase in the country from 140 per million on April 25 to 690 per million on May 25.“These states (Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Delhi) seem to be nearing the peak while those like Kerala, Punjab and Haryana seem to have crossed the peak,” Prof Murthy said.“Since six states (Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Delhi, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh) contribute 70% cases in the country, unless these states peak, the country peak cannot be reached.From the present trends, this can happen as early as early June to as late as the middle of July, he said|.On his assessment about “eventual” Covid-19 deaths in India, Professor Murthy said evidence from some models shows that nearly 80,000-100,000 deaths have been avoided due to the lockdown.He said data shows that the daily increase in deaths across the country has been two deaths per million population over the last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-haryana-may-have-crossed-the-peak-in-coronavirus-cases-expert/story-784eyllRRa4IuK9KDj4kcN.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Is NOC from CARA mandatory for adoption: Punjab and Haryana HC to Centre||The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked ministry of external affairs (MEA) to apprise it whether for adoption under the Hindu Adoption and Maintenance Act (HAMA)-1956, no objection certificate (NOC) from the Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA) is mandatory. The response was sought on the plea from a two- year- old girl, adopted by an NRI couple. She was one of the twins born to a Jalandhar couple and subsequently adopted by NRI sister of her natural mother. They had applied for passport, but it was refused on the ground that there was no NOC from CARA. It is a statutory body for adoption of Indian children and is mandated to monitor and regulate in-country and inter-country adoptions. CARA is established under Juvenile Justice Act (JJA), 2015.The girl was born in November 2017 to a Sikh family in Jalandhar. She was adopted as per Sikh rites performed at a local Gurdwara as both the sides of parents were Sikhs to which a certificate too was issued. An adoption deed was executed between both the parents in November 2018 under the Hindu Adoption and Maintenance Act (as applicable to Sikhs). Thereafter, the family applied for girl’s passport which was rejected by authorities stating that NOC from CARA was mandatory.As per petitioner girl’s advocate SS Nara, Section 56 (3) of the JJ Act 2015 states that the provisions of the JJ Act would not be applicable to the adoption of children made under the provisions of HAMA, latter being a ‘special law’. JJ Act does not override the provisions of HAMA Act, it was argued adding that in view of this passport cannot be denied. On the other hand, Central government counsel had argued it is a mandatory procedure for the adoption to be ratified by CARA, even though JJ Act would not be applicable to an adoption under HAMA. There are notifications which categorically state that the Hague Convention itself mandates adoptions to be through CARA alone, the counsel had added. The bench of justice Jaishree Thakur sought Centre’s response observing that a pertinent question has been raised whether an NOC is to be obtained and whether the provisions of the JJ Act would apply to adoptions under HAMA. “Let a detailed reply be filed by the respondents raising all objections therein and by placing on record all notifications as relied upon,” the bench said posting the matter for June 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/is-noc-from-cara-mandatory-for-adoption-punjab-and-haryana-hc-to-centre/story-9ntET8ipueoMkTRS45pPrO.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab no more among 10 worst coronavirus-hit states||In what is being seen as a relief to the Capt Amarinder Singh-led Punjab government, the state does not figure on the list of India’s 10 worst coronavirus-hit states anymore. The state now is on the 12th position, the latest data shows. It was on May 3 when Punjab, after a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases in the wake of the return of pilgrims to Takht Hazur Sahib in Maharashtra’s Nanded, entered the list of 10 worst-hit states.The state improved in ranking as Bihar (2,686) and Karnataka (2,180) added several cases in past few days, as per the data of the Union health and family welfare ministry till May 25. As per the government’s figures, Punjab has reported 2,081 cases so far.The 10 worst-affected states are Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Delhi, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh apart from Bihar and Karnataka. Punjab’s neighbouring state Haryana was on 16th rank whereas Jammu and Kashmir is on 14th place. A sharp decline in new cases is the last fortnight or so is being seen as the biggest reason behind Punjab’s exit from the list of 10 worst-hit states. In the in last 10 days, the state has reported 135 new cases, a moderate spike when compared with many states.Also, the state’s doubling rate has improved in the last three weeks. The rate, which was just three days on May 5, has now increased to 98 days. As against 4-5% daily increase in cases as per national figures, the state’s increase in cases varies between 0 and 1% in the past week.Already, Punjab is on the top among all the states in terms of patients’ recovery rate which is over 92%, more than double the national average.Four districts — Ferozepur, Mansa, Moga and Taran Taran — have reported no new cases in the last two weeks. SAS Nagar and Sangrur, which too had no fresh cases during the same period, had fresh cases on Tuesday.On Tuesday, six districts — Rupnagar, Moga, Fatehgarh Sahib, Ferozepur, Fazilka and Mansa — had no Covid-19 case, while SAS Nagar, Sangrur, Muktsar, Faridkot, Bathinda and Barnala have active case presently.“All this is the result of our containment strategy and the strong follow-up by our teams monitoring the suspected patients. If all goes well, we will improve further in the coming days,” state Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-no-more-among-10-worst-coronavirus-hit-states/story-G2YG6cj0bFcljot0fGK4fO.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||BJP leader held, 7 booked for attacking house of woman in Bathinda||Police have arrested a BJP leader and booked seven family members of a woman on Tuesday for allegedly attacking her husband’s house.The complainant had recently tied the nuptial knot with a Muslim man, who had converted to Hinduism to marry her, said Canal Colony SHO, SI Sunil Kumar.On complaint of the 21-year-old woman, a case has been registered against former Vishva Hindu Parisdhad leader and BJP state secretary Sukhpal Singh Sran, victim’s father, mother, grandfather and four other relatives under Section 452, 120-B and 506 of the IPC at Canal Colony police station.The woman alleged that her parents were against the alliance so they and the BJP leader, who instigated her parents, attacked her in-laws’ house and pelted stones.Workers of the right wing organisations have termed the incident ‘Love Jihad’ and claimed that it was an attempt to convert the woman to Islam. Angered over the arrest of BJP leader, they burnt an effigy of Bathinda SSP Nanak Singh at Sadbhawna Chowk on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bjp-leader-held-7-booked-for-attacking-house-of-woman-in-bathinda/story-O24H4JKpAC9gUzpfWVD5dN.html
26-05-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: In Amritsar, community spread cases up by 166% post-relaxations||The Amritsar district has witnessed a spike of 166% in Covid-19 cases of community transmission after relaxations in the lockdown were announced on May 19. Of a total of 40 cases of community spread, wherein a patient has no travel history and has not come in contact with any virus-infected person, reported in the district so far, as many as 25 were reported in the past week. Ten such cases surfaced on Monday and Tuesday alone.The first coronavirus case was reported in Amritsar on March 21 when a man, who had returned from the United Kingdom, had tested positive. The district, which has been put in the ‘red-zone’ category, has reported 337 cases, including six deaths, till date. “The maximum community transmission cases in a day (8) were reported on Monday. These patients were tested in flu corners after they showed symptoms of the disease. Most of the recent cases have been reported from Rani Ka Bagh; Palm Gardens Colony, Majitha Road; Vijay Nagar, Batala Road; Dashmesh Nagar and Katra Dullo locality. Their source of infection could not be traced,” said civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore.“The patients are undergoing treatment at the isolation ward of the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Amritsar. The cases are increasing rapidly as people have started commuting without taking precautions. The health department and district administration are working to step up surveillance,” Dr Kishore added. Deputy commissioner Shiv Dular Singh Dhillon said, “People need to maintain social distancing and wear face masks to avoid getting infected by the virus. The lockdown was imposed to make people aware about the situation so that they make precautionary measures part of their lifestyle. The government will soon take a call on extending the state-wide lockdown.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-in-amritsar-community-spread-cases-up-by-166-post-relaxations/story-ALgAQCJicVq5zd0ZLzq5hK.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||PAU sounds alert on likely locust attack, issues advisory to farmers||The Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana, on Tuesday sounded an alert on a possible locust attack in Punjab on a bigger scale after a swarm spotted in Rajasthan’s Hanumangarh district was seen heading towards areas of Fazilka district. PAU experts have prepared an audio clip which is being circulated in the Abhor belt located near the Rajasthan border.Varsity’s entomology department head PK Chhuneja said the swarms could cover 150-200 km in a day. “Since the first week of May, locusts have tried to intrude fields in Punjab areas on three occasions. But the Punjab government has chalked out a comprehensive plan to tackle the situation,” said Chhuneja.‘INFORM AGRI DEPT OR NEAREST CIRCLE OFFICE’ The PAU has urged the farmers to inform the agriculture department, the varsity or the nearest locust circle office in case they spot a swarm in their area besides keeping their pesticide sprays ready to tackle attack.“During the daytime, the hopping locusts can be crushed under vehicles with wide wheels. The flying ones can be scared away by creating loud drumming sounds or by using torches during night,” the PAU advisory read.“Their movement happened due to heavy rainfall in the desert areas. The full-gown locust will attack the area according to the availability of food,” said Dr Chhuneja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pau-sounds-alert-on-likely-locust-attack-issues-advisory-to-farmers/story-gt9MTpYNfvnDM4Gsbh7ziK.html
26-05-2020||City||Pune reports nine deaths, 246 Covid-19 fresh cases||Pune: The city reported nine deaths due to Covid-19 and 246 fresh cases of the infection in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) jurisdiction. The total count of progressive positive patients went up to 5,427 in the city while the number of deaths due to the virus went up to 273.In addition, 140 patients were discharged on Tuesday taking the count of those cured and discharged to 2,875 patients. Out of the 2,279 active cases as of Tuesday, 176 are critical patients.Out of the nine deaths, four were reported from Sassoon General Hospital. The four deaths include 30-year-old female from Yerawada, 76- year-old male from Nana peth, 48-year-old female from Camp and 67-year-old female from Hadapsar.The other deaths include 52-year-old male residing at Hadapsar reported dead from Yash hospital, a 41-year-old male from Yerawada reported dead at Ruby Hall Clinic, 48-year-old male from Nana peth reported dead at Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital, 82-year-old male from Parvati reported from Poona Hospital and 52-year-old female from Hadapsar reported from Sahyadri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-reports-nine-deaths-246-covid-19-fresh-cases/story-CBORkQ9sN2DBvqDhbLMZMN.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab government offices to function with maximum 50% staff||The Punjab government offices in non-essential services departments will function with minimum staff to contain the spread of coronavirus in the state.“The maximum staff strength permitted to attend office at any time in these department is 50%,” according to guidelines issued by chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh to all heads of departments (HoDs), commissioners of divisions, and deputy commissioners in the state.The departments have been directed to divide the staff into two batches and have a weekly roster. “The HoD will be responsible to ensure that only one batch of employees is attending the office during one week and other batch during next week so as to make sure there is no inter-mixing of two batches,” read the instructions. They have also been asked to ensure batch-wise attendance. However, these instructions will not apply to departments dealing with essential services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-government-offices-to-function-with-maximum-50-staff/story-rOLn5deygVxWxl5X1mbg8N.html
26-05-2020||Mumbai||HC asks state to give details of Covid-19 testing facilities in all districts||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday widened the scope of the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by a fisherman from Ratnagiri by asking the state to give details of testing facilities in all districts in the purview of the petition. The PIL had sought directions to set up full-fledged Covid-19 testing facilities in Ratnagiri after a rise in the number of persons returning from Mumbai and Pune which were declared hotspots of the novel coronavirus. The plea had stated that in light of the growing number of suspected Covid cases, the state should set up additional testing facilities in Ratnagiri.A division bench of chief justices Dipankar Datta and K K Tated, while hearing the PIL by Khalil Ahmad Hasanmiya Wasta, a 58-year-old fisherman, through video conferencing, was informed by advocate Rakesh Bhatkar that since the state allowed intra-state travelling during the lockdown, around 60,000 people from Mumbai and Pune had arrived in the Konkan region namely Ratnagiri, Raigad and Sindhudurg. Bhatkar had further submitted that before the lifting of travel ban there were only seven Covid-19 positive cases in Ratnagiri, however the same went up to 108 after migrants and students returned from Mumbai and Pune. He added that as swab samples were being sent to Sangli and Miraj which are 237 km away, reports of suspected coronavirus infected persons were getting delayed and hence, full-fledged testing labs should be set up in Ratnagiri to avoid the delay.After hearing the submissions on Tuesday, the court sought to know the status of such testing facilities in each district and directed government pleader Priyabhushan Kakade to take instructions regarding the same and inform the court on the next date of hearing on May 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-asks-state-to-give-details-of-covid-19-testing-facilities-in-all-districts/story-DKTxgC80z3tBGjOR2eW9eL.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||All entering Punjab to be screened, testing a must for symptomatic: Health minister||The Punjab health department on Tuesday issued a detailed advisory on medical protocol and procedures for all international as well as domestic travellers coming to the state by air, rail and road. In a statement, health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said all international travellers will be required to hand over self-declaration forms containing personal and health details to officials for screening at the point of entry.“Inbound international passengers found to be symptomatic during screening will be taken to a health facility and their RT-PCR samples will be taken for Covid testing as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines,” he said.He said those who test positive and are asymptomatic, provided they are aged less than 60 or do not have any comorbidity, will be kept in Covid care centres whereas passengers who test positive and need medical supervision (either due to the severity of symptoms or any associated co-morbidity or are aged above 60) will be shifted to a level-II or level-III facility.Asymptomatic passengers found negative will be put under institutional quarantine on payment basis and tested on the fifth day and if tested negative they will be allowed to go home after completion of 7-day institutional quarantine and advised home isolation for the same period, the minister added. Domestic travellers entering Punjab by air, train, road will also be screened at the entry points, Sidhu said. “They will have to report to nearest health facility in case of development of any symptoms,” he said.Frequent interstate travellers who need to move outside Punjab, such as MP, MLA, doctors, journalists and engineers, etc need not be home quarantined, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/all-entering-punjab-to-be-screened-testing-a-must-for-symptomatic-health-minister/story-0jvmXWt6HkqCwHKbChaP5H.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Man held, remanded for UK gurdwara hate crime||A man charged with burglary and causing thousands of pounds of damage in the Guru Arjan Dev Gurdwara in Derby has been arrested and remanded to prison custody on Tuesday, the Derbyshire police said.Mohammed Ibrar, 31, who was also involved in an alleged stabbing in a shop after the gurdwara incident, appeared before Southern Derbyshire magistrates’ court.The police said they were called just before 8.40am on Monday to reports that the Guru Arjan Dev Gurdwara in Stanhope Street had been broken into. Another call minutes later said a man had been stabbed inside a shop in Normanton Road. A 41-year-old man was found injured.Chief superintendent David Cox said: “I know this is a very upsetting incident not only because this is a place of worship but the alleged actions of the individual involved have a wider impact across the community”.“I am taking this incident very seriously and I have a team of detectives who are working through the full circumstances of what has taken place”.“This is being treated as a hate crime. Throughout yesterday and today we have been in continued dialogue with the Sikh community and local officers will be more visible in the area to make sure both those associated with the Gurdwara and the wider community feel safe”.The attack on gurdwara was deplored by many in the community. Labour MP Preet Kaur Gill regretted the incident: “Very sad to see an attack on any place of worship. Thoughts are with the Derby sangat who have been providing 500 meals a day from Guru Arjan Dev Gurdwara”.The Indian consulate in Birmingham said: “We are deeply saddened by the attack…We hope all communities will stand together in this time of difficulty to maintain peace & harmony in the spirit of universal brotherhood”.The gurdwara said the hate-crime would not deter it from its ‘seva’ and ‘simran’: “We will continue the service the community with Langar and continue to stream live nitnem (daily prayers). We will ensure the safety of all our Sevadhaars (volunteers) and employees”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-held-remanded-for-uk-gurdwara-hate-crime/story-ZbqJV9XNq17X86n5xA51JO.html
26-05-2020||City||Pune airport sees 23 flights||Pune: On the second consecutive day, on Tuesday, 1,758 passengers travelled from the Pune airport to various destination across the country. 12 flights arrived and 11 flights departed from the airport on Tuesday till 7.30 pm. A total of 23 flight operations were handed from the airport on Tuesday, according to the airport authorities.According to the information given by the Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh, 11 flights carried 1,200 passengers. And from the 12 flights which arrived at the Pune airport, 558 passengers landed in Pune from different parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-airport-sees-23-flights/story-4i5HtcqZfrIYH3ow2CdMrN.html
26-05-2020||City||15 special flights ferry stranded residents to J&K||Six special domestic flights with 179 stranded passengers on board and nine flights with 891 passengers landed at the Jammu and Srinagar airports respectively on Tuesday.During boarding and travel, the administration is ensuring that all passengers use masks and follow social distancing, hand and respiratory hygiene to contain the spread of virus.The administration has made elaborate arrangements for the arrival, screening, sampling and proper transportation of the passengers to the quarantine centers. The airport authorities have put in place all requisite arrangements and facilities for smooth and successful operation of the flights so that all guidelines and Standard Operating Procedures (SOP’s) prescribed by the Union ministry of civil aviation and health and family welfare are strictly adhered to.All passengers, on arrival, are being screened for Covid-19 using RTPCR test and their sampling is done as per the prescribed protocol. They are being kept in institutional or home quarantine for prescribed period accordingly. Those passengers who test negative will be sent home and those testing positive, if any, will be sent to the hospital for treatment. There are exemptions for seriously ill patients, pregnant women and passengers suffering from other chronic diseases, who will be allowed to go for home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/15-special-flights-ferry-stranded-residents-to-j-k/story-OgTmetMU0muyQnppleCBfN.html
26-05-2020||Mumbai||Court rejects pre-arrest bail of doc booked for sexually abusing Covid-19 patient||The sessions court has refused to grant anticipatory bail to a 33-year-old doctor, booked for sexually abusing a Covid-19 patient. The doctor is employed with a private hospital and was posted at a special ward for coronavirus patients. As per the complaint lodged with Agripada police station, on May 2, the accused allegedly misbehaved and sexually abused a 44-year-old male patient at an ICU ward. The patient, however, made a written complaint to the hospital administration after which the doctor was asked to give a written explanation. Later, the administration approached the Agripada police against the doctor. The doctor, who is put under quarantine, in his explanation to the hospital said that he had just responded to the sexual advances of the patient and the allegations of sexual abuse were false. The court refused to accept his defence and rejected his anticipatory bail petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/court-rejects-pre-arrest-bail-of-doc-booked-for-sexually-abusing-covid-19-patient/story-3YNHbaS4y3otZBMIF34lIP.html
26-05-2020||City||Ludhiana employment bureau goes digital, launches web links for various services||Amid the coronavirus lockdown, the district bureau of employment and enterprises (DBEE), Ludhiana, has gone digital and launched few online links for welfare of the youths looking for work.Chief executive officer (CEO) of Ludhiana DBEE-cum-ADC (Jagraon) Neeru Katyal Gupta said the educated youths, who are in search of jobs, can register and create their profiles to apply for government as well as private jobs on www.pgrkam.com. She also said that the registration link for employers, who are looking to hire labourers, can post their requirements on employer vacancy collection form on https://forms.gle/L83tdytrWqXNgFxD8, while those who are looking to work as labour can fill up the labour registration form on https://forms.gle/QXpKYNptn57P29G78. Similarly, those who want to start their own business by taking loans can fill up the self-employment registration form on https://forms.gle/ZV2VdahGUX5DrobZ8.HELPLINE NUMBER LAUNCHEDDeputy CEO of DBEE, Ludhiana, Navdeep Singh, said the employment bureau has also started a mobile helpline number for those who seek assistance in finding jobs, career counselling, self-employment, manual registration or have any queries. Such people can call up on helpline number 7740001682 between 9am to 5pm on all government working days. For any other queries, one can send an email to dbeeludhelp@gmail.com.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-employment-bureau-goes-digital-launches-web-links-for-various-services/story-enCRyMPaXBPAfEpx9itcpK.html
26-05-2020||City||J&K resident alleges chaos, negligence at sample collection centre in Kathua||It’s been over two months since the Covid-19 lockdown was enforced across India, but the allegations of mismanagement and chaos at quarantine and sample collection centres refuse to die down in Jammu and Kashmir.Recalling a nightmarish experience at a sample collection centre set up in Radha Soami Ashram in Thandi Khui area of Samba district, a 35-year-old man said, “I spent two nights with my wife and children, aged eight months and two years, in my car at the ashram as there was huge rush of people returning to J&K. In the name of social distancing and hygiene, there was only one common bathroom, which was dirty, and the mere thought of it being used by infected persons sent shivers down my spine.”Hussain had applied for inter-state travel on April 22 to bring home his wife and two children from Himachal Pradesh’s Nurpur. He was eventually given permission on May 17 and his ordeal began on May 19.“On May 19, I left Bari Brahmana in Samba district in my car, reached Nurpur and returned with my wife and two children the same evening, but our samples were taken on May 21 around 3.30pm,” he said.Thereafter, Hussain was shifted on May 21 evening to a quarantine centre where he was kept for five more days.Our samples were sent to GMCH Srinagar and after we got a message on our phone that we had been tested negative, we were issued a pass to go home, he said.A senior doctor at the Government Medical College and Hospital, Jammu, admitted that there was mismanagement on the part of the administration.“Sample reports are being delayed because there is a massive burden on the testing labs. I have requested the administration to streamline the system. For instance, limit of samples should be set according to the testing capacity of all the labs,” the senior doctor said.In all, J&K has four government testing labs.The doctor recalled a recent event wherein 70 returnees were brought to GMCH Jammu in a bus for testing.“They told me that their samples had not been taken for the past seven days. They were full of other complaints. In the scorching heat, they were dropped at the hospital by a naib tehsildar. This is how the administration is combating Covid-19,” he said.Recently, J&K returnees housed in quarantine centres like MA Stadium in Jammu, Dhalwas and Dharmund in Ramban had complained about poor food, inadequate water and plastic bedsheets.When asked about the alleged negligence, Samba district magistrate Rohit Khajuria said, “We have put up barricades and made separate enclosures to ensure social distancing, but when 2,000 people come at once and say 10 among them defy the protocol, it is hard to check that. Cops cannot be deployed with each and every person.”On the delay in sampling reports, he said initially there was pendency, but now everything has been streamlined.“For the past three to four days, there has been no pendency. Initially, J&K had only two government testing labs, but now there are four and some private as well. Testing capacity has been increased to 8,000 tests per day. When there is such a big task at hand, it takes time to streamline things,” Khajuria said.Khajuria also clarified that the said ashram has 500 toilets and as many bathrooms, which all are clean.“In fact, the ashram office-bearers revealed that many people were not using the toilets, but defecating on the premises. People themselves were creating a mess,” he added.About the re-sampling, he said it might have happened in “two or three cases”. “It is easy to criticise. Ask these people to come and work with us for 10 days,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-resident-alleges-chaos-negligence-at-sample-collection-centre-in-kathua/story-W2cEBZ3S0QkiyvXkMChM9I.html
26-05-2020||City||Civic body plans to rope in nurses who returned to Kerala from Gulf countries||Pune: Pune district administration on Tuesday met prominent Malayali community organisations in the city to rope in nurses who recently returned to Kerala from Gulf countries.According to Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar, the issue of nurses leaving the city hospitals and roping in trained nurses and health care workers who recently returned to Kerala from the Gulf was discussed during the meeting with two prominent Malayali community organisations in the city.“We have asked the proactive and prominent community members of Malayali community to appeal to the nurses from Kerala to not return to the Gulf countries. Our efforts will be to provide them better options here,” said Mhaisekar.Many hospitals from Pune have reported that their nurses, especially from Kerala, have left for home and are unwilling to return due to the fear of Covid-19.He added that the community members were asked to request the nurses, who had returned from Gulf countries recently to Kerala, to come to Pune and work in private as well as government hospitals.“I asked the community members to request these trained nurses and health care staff to come here and we are ready to help them,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/civic-body-plans-to-rope-in-nurses-who-returned-to-kerala-from-gulf-countries/story-IKZbJbliOZLJKNVr3CjpYI.html
26-05-2020||City||Mumbra to observe complete shutdown||From Tuesday midnight, Mumbra will be under complete lockdown to curb the increasing number of Covid cases. Till Monday, Mumbra had 288 cases.Thane municipal commissioner Vijay Singhal said that despite repeated warnings, residents have been violating social distancing at Mumbra. Crowds in markets, shops and fish markets have not thinned despite statewide lockdown.Singhal said, “We have decided to impose a complete lockdown and seal the boundaries of Mumbra. Only medical stores and dairy shops will open between 7am and 9am. All shops, including shops selling essentials, will remain closed from the midnight of May 26. Vegetable, fruit and meat shops, bakeries will be shut. Home delivery of any essential, including milk, will not be allowed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbra-to-observe-complete-shutdown/story-bkEIZeicAQrc7yNlrk7BlL.html
26-05-2020||City||91 fresh infections take J&K Covid-19 tally to 1,759||A 90-year-old man died due to Covid-19 at Srinagar’s Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS) on Tuesday, taking the death toll in Jammu and Kashmir to 24, officials said.The deceased was a resident of Khaloora Kulgam and was admitted at SKIMS on Monday after he was referred from the Government Medical College, Anantnag. “The man was suffering from fever and Pneumonia. He had tested positive on Monday and died this morning,” a doctor at SKIMS said.So far 24 people—21 in Kashmir division and three in Jammu division – have died due to the virus.Also, with ninety-one fresh infections reported in the UT on Tuesday, the total number of positive cases rose to 1,759. Officials said of the new cases, 37 are from Kashmir division while 54 people tested positive in Jammu division.In Kashmir division, fresh cases were reported from Kulgam, Srinagar,Bandipora, Baramulla,Budgam, Ganderbal, Kupwara and Pulwama districts, taking the tally to 1,441. A jump of 12 cases was recorded in Budgam district while there were single digit jumps in other districts of the Valley.“Of the fresh cases in Kashmir, 25 samples tested positive at CD Hospital. Four of the positive cases are pregnant women,” said nodal officer for Covid-19 at Government Medical College, Srinagar, Dr Salim Khan. In Jammu division, new cases were recorded in Jammu, Ramban,Kathua, Udhampur, Samba, Poonch and Reasi districts, taking the tally to 348.“24 more patients have recovered and were discharged from 15 hospitals in Jammu and nine in Kashmir,” the government statement said.In south Kashmir’s Anantnag, a toddler recovered from the disease. “The eight-month-old is the youngest Covid patient from Anantnag who was discharged after having recovered at a health facility,” said additional district magistrate Syed Yasir.So far, 833 out of the total 1,759 cases have recovered from the disease taking the recovery rate in Jammu and Kashmir to 47%. At present, active cases in Kashmir stand at 647 and 255 are in Jammu.Till date, 1.42 lakh people in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance — 32,714 in home quarantine, 62 in hospital quarantine and 33,573 under home surveillance. Besides, 75,626 people have completed their 28-day surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/91-fresh-infections-take-j-k-covid-19-tally-to-1-759/story-wrG9QtcIx5Pb5f3HD0r9ZK.html
26-05-2020||City||Major relief to commuters: 3 flyover projects of NH-44 opened for traffic in Ludhiana||In a major relief for Ludhiana residents, the long pending projects of three flyovers under National Highway-44 (Jalandhar-Panipat project) have been completed, with deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Agrawal opening the Sherpur Chowk flyover for traffic on Monday.Now, traffic coming from Jalandhar will not have to enter the city to reach Delhi and vice versa, reducing the vehicular rush on Ludhiana roads.The projects were to be completed by March 31, 2020, but the work was delayed due to the nationwide lockdown. The Basti Jodhewal bridge was opened for traffic in November last year, while both sides of Sherpur Chowk and Cancer Hospital flyover were opened this month. Punjab road safety council member Rahul Verma said, “The three flyovers worth around 75 crore have been completed and opened for traffic. A temporary down ramp has also been established to facilitate the entry of light vehicles coming from Cancer Hospital side to Sherpur Chowk. Moreover, the administration is in talks with the NHAI to establish permanent entry and exit points at Sherpur Chowk and near Jalandhar Bypass.”“The expansion project of Laddowal toll plaza is going on and it is expected that the service lane being established over the Buddha Nullah, near Tibba road, would be opened for traffic in around two weeks”, he said. DC Agrawal said, “Even though the flyovers have been completed, there are still many issues such as Tajpur road cut, entry exit points on the highway, etc, for which we are coordinating with the NHAI.” PROJECT HANGING FIRE FOR OVER 10 YEARSThe three flyover projects in the city -- Basti Jodhewal, Sherpur Chowk and the one near Mohan Dai Oswal Cancer hospital -- were hanging fire for over ten years, giving the commuters a harrowing time. The project had commenced in 2008 and was to be completed by 2011, but the construction work was put to a halt in 2010 due to some issues between the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the construction company.It restarted last year after Congress leader including member of Parliament (MP) Ravneet Singh Bittu, cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, mayor Balkar Sandhu, members of legislative assembly (MLAs) Sanjay Talwar, Surinder Dawar and others staged a two-day protest at Laddowal toll plaza in March, ahead of Lok Sabha elections. SINGLE SPAN FLYOVER AT TAJPUR ROAD CUTApart from the above said projects, the authorities are working on a bridge at Tajpur road cut under change of scope (COS) plans. As a large number of residents cross the highway from Tajpur road cut, they had demanded a passage to cross the road after the completion of the highway project. As there is no cut, the residents have to travel till Basti Jodhewal or Samrala Chowk to cross the road. As per the information, retired municipal corporation (MC) engineer MPS Kalra has been appointed as consultant for Punjab region by NHAI. He said that they have commenced a survey to establish a single-span flyover which would connect Kailash Nagar with Tajpur Road. “The survey report would soon be submitted with the NHAI authorities,” he said. Earlier, there was a plan to establish vehicular underpass at the point.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/major-relief-to-commuters-3-flyover-projects-of-nh-44-opened-for-traffic-in-ludhiana/story-qkMrJX9rdV1mcotDFUUU8I.html
26-05-2020||Mumbai||PIL against Wadia Hospitals: HC asks petitioner to deposit Rs 1 cr to prove his bonafides||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday directed Dadar resident Dr Pankaj Phadnis, who has filed a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking an investigation into the functioning of Wadia Hospitals at Parel, to deposit Rs 1 crore in two days to prove his bonafides. The bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice KK Tated issued the order after both the hospitals--Bai Jerabai Wadia Children’s Hospital and Nowrosjee Wadia Maternity Hospital--took strong objections to the PIL.Dr Phadnis has filed the PIL through Abhinav Bharat Congress, an organization that he founded. Apart from the investigation into financial aspects of the hospitals, they have also sought a direction to the state authorities to take over the hospitals.The hospital management objected to the maintainability of the PIL on the ground that under Bombay High Court PIL Rules, 2010, an unregistered body has no locus standi to initiate a proceeding in the nature of a PIL.The hospital management also pointed that over a decade ago, Dr Phadnis was in the employment of the Wadias and that this PIL was filed for furthering his agenda. They added that Dr Phadnis had unsuccessfully initiated proceedings against the Wadias in a United States court and that the PIL was nothing but an abuse of the processes of the court.The bench noted that the petitioner had not disclosed these facts in the PIL, nor had he controverted the statements in his reply to their affidavit.The omissions gave the prima facts “reason to believe that this PIL petition may not have been filed in public interest but for ulterior and oblique motives, and that the bonafide of the petitioner no.2 (Dr. Phadnis) is suspect.”The bench has now asked the petitioner to deposit Rs 1 crore by Thursday with the hC registry. If the deposit is made, the PIL is ordered to be placed for further hearing on Friday, May 29, otherwise, it will be dismissed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pil-against-wadia-hospitals-hc-asks-petitioner-to-deposit-rs-1-cr-to-prove-his-bonafides/story-pF5QtzNz8Dob2pPyM9Sg5N.html
26-05-2020||City||J&K admn evacuates 94,621 stranded residents||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has evacuated 94,621 residents via Lakhanpur and through a network of special trains and buses to date amid observance of all necessary Standard Operating Procedures regarding the Covid 19 pandemic.As per the official data received in this regard, the administrations of Jammu and Kashmir districts have received 33 Covid special trains at Jammu and Udhampur railway stations from different states and UTs, so far, with about 26, 797 stranded passengers while about 67,172 persons have been evacuated by the government through Lakhanpur to date.Meanwhile, about 652 passengers including students have already reached Srinagar International Airport under Vande Bharat Mission through four special flights.Therefore, a total of about 94,621 J&K residents stranded outside UT have been brought back by the administration in 33 special trains, flights besides scores of buses through Lakhanpur after strictly observing all necessary preventive measures regarding the Virus.As per the detailed breakup, about 478 stranded passengers have entered through Lakhanpur from May 25 to May 26 while 763 passengers reached on Tuesday in the 13th Delhi Covid special train at Jammu. So far, 13 trains have reached Jammu with a total of 11,157 stranded passengers belonging to different districts while 15,640 passengers have reached Udhampur in 20 special trains, so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-admn-evacuates-94-621-stranded-residents/story-MznX4xY92VkYBSzSiapGAL.html
26-05-2020||Lucknow||Adityanath makes u-turn, UP says no permission needed to hire its workers||Two days after Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said other states will also need permission from the state for engaging its workers, his government said Tuesday that it would not incorporate, in the migration commission bye-laws, the ‘prior permission’ clause for states seeking to employ manpower from UP.The government also said it was working on modalities to set up the commission to provide jobs and social security to migrant workers returning to the state. It has named the migration commission as the ‘Kamgar/shramik (sewajojan and rozgar) kalyan ayog (Workers/labourers employment welfare commission). About 26 lakh migrants have already returned to the state and an exercise to map their skills is being carried out to help them get jobs.On Tuesday, Adityanath discussed the modalities for setting up the commission and told his officers to complete the skill mapping exercise in 15 days.“The chief minister discussed the modalities for setting up the commission, as well. There will be no provision requiring other states to seek UP government’s prior permission for employing our manpower. The commission is being set up with to provide jobs and social security to the workers. We will also link the migrants to the government schemes to provide them houses and loans etc,” said a senior officer, who didn’t want to be named.Adityanath said a letter should be sent to all state governments to find out about migrant workers willing to come back to Uttar Pradesh. Speaking at a webinar on Sunday, the CM had said: “The migration commission will work in the interest of migrant workers. If any other state wants UP’s manpower, they cannot take them away just like that but will have to seek permission of the UP government. The way our migrant workers were ill-treated in other states, the UP government will take their insurance, social security in its hands now. The state government will stand by them wherever they work, whether in Uttar Pradesh, other states or other countries.”The ‘permission’ statement sparked a row with some political leaders and parties questioning it.Earlier in the day, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi had severely criticized Adityanath’s stand saying the workers were not the chief minister’s personal property.“It is very unfortunate that the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh views India in such a way. These people are not his personal property. They are not the personal property of Uttar Pradesh. These people are Indian citizens and they have the right to decide what they want to do and they have the right to live the life they want to live,” Gandhi said.On Monday, MNS chief Raj Thackeray had taken on Adityanath with a warning that if UP insists on “permission” before other states can to employ workers from there, “then any migrant entering Maharashtra would need to take permissions from us, from the Maharashtra state, our police force. Shri Adityanath needs to take cognizance of this. Also, the Maharashtra government needs to look into this matter seriously. In future, whenever migrants do enter our state, they will need to be registered and their personal details and identification proof will need to be submitted to the police station. Only if these requirements are met, will they be allowed to enter Maharashtra.”Explaining Adityanath’s point on the issue, the officer quoted earlier said, “The chief minister is deeply moved by the condition of migrants. They have been treated badly by other states. So, when the CM spoke about the need for seeking UP government’s permission, he did so in the role of a guardian for workers. It’s only the CM’s concern for the migrants that came out as a political statement,” said the officer while asserting that Yogi’s statement was in no way out of context.Meanwhile, CB Pandey, a legal expert, said: “The migration commission can work as a welfare body and watch the interests of the workmen. But most of the migrant workers are employed in the unorganized sector.The state government can regulate only the recruitment agencies, if any. In more than 99 per cent of cases, no recruitment agencies are involved. Majority of workers of the unorganized sector look for jobs through their acquaintances or family members and regulating them may not be possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/adityanath-makes-u-turn-up-says-no-permission-needed-to-hire-its-workers/story-CbhCHUieWvUwxmzT1CscyO.html
26-05-2020||Gurugram||Gururgram records 33 Covid-19 cases in 24 hrs, total count rises to 317||There has been a spurt in coronavirus infections in Gurugram with 33 new cases appearing in the last 24 hours.Alarmingly, 12 of them are police personnel deployed on Covid duty in different containment zones. Besides, 21 patients were found infected after they came in contact with high risk earlier detected patients.The relaxation in lockdown is adversely affecting common citizens of Gurugram as 118 positive cases appeared first 8 days of lockdown 4.0.Gurugram now has 317 positive cases including 151 active patients who are admitted in different private and government hospitals. The remaining 166 patients were discharged from hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gururgram-records-33-covid-19-cases-in-24-hrs-total-count-rises-to-317/story-YgmksXLJMWNLnqvg19i22M.html
26-05-2020||Mumbai||Catholics approach Archdiocese to allow burials of Covid-19 victims in local cemeteries||A week after the municipal corporation listed four cemeteries where bodies of Christians who pass away of Covid 19 can be buried, members of the Roman Catholic community approached the Archdiocese of Bombay asking for more cemeteries attached to churches to accept such burials.The development comes after HT first reported that a family from Mahim was forced to cremate the body of a 61-year-old woman who passed away from Covid-19 after cemeteries refused to provide burial space.“Despite the high court order, there are not enough cemeteries which are accepting bodies of Covid-19 victims. Which is why a representative submitted a letter to the Archdiocese on our behalf. If they don’t accept the request, we plan to move court. Burial is not being allowed even in family graves. The cemeteries attached to the church need to allow burial just as four BMC cemeteries have been asked to,” said Melwyn Fernandes of Association of Concerned Catholic (AOCC), who has submitted the application.According to community activists, around 20 such forced cremations would have taken place ever since the lockdown guidelines were enforced. However, there are no official figures available with authorities. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had earlier said that bodies of all Covid-19 victims will have to be cremated, but later earmarked burial grounds for Muslims. This led to demands from Christian groups for burial permissions.Some approached the Bombay High Court which said burials should be allowed. The court last week, observed that there was no scientific data to support the claim that Covid-19 can spread through dead bodies and that the BMC had all the authority to demarcate the cemetery. However, Father Nigel Barett, spokesperson of the Archdiocese, said that burial order comes from the BMC. “If BMC gives the order to bury a body, then it is on the trustees of that cemetery to decide whether they want to accept the body or not. There are no guidelines in place by BMC about the handling of dead bodies and when the grave can be opened again, without which everyone is scared to handle the body. Otherwise, the church would be blamed for spreading the virus,” said Barett.The Archdiocese of Bombay has around five lakh members under its jurisdiction. All across Mumbai, Thane, Raigad district and Mahad, there are 122 churches of Roman Catholic denomination, with approximately 60 cemeteries attached to them. Earlier, there have been four burials that have taken place at Deonar cemetery, of which two families were from Dharavi. Over the weekend, the burial of a member from a Roman Catholic church from Vakola took place at Mahalakshmi.“Deonar cemetery is really small, they can only accept a limited number of bodies. They have now requested us to not get any bodies because as there is no space. Some bigger cemeteries like Sewri, which are under the jurisdiction of BMC, are not accepting Covid 19 bodies,” said Cyril Dara, secretary of Christian reform united people association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/catholics-approach-archdiocese-to-allow-burials-of-covid-19-victims-in-local-cemeteries/story-ne4BjgcrkTu4p4o3UtFb3N.html
26-05-2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Gautam Navlakha shifted from Delhi to Taloja prison||Civil rights activist Gautam Navlakha, arrested in connection with the Elgar Parishad case, was shifted to Taloja jail from Delhi on Tuesday. He will be kept under quarantine before being moved to the prison.Navlakha was taken into custody by the National Investigating Agency (NIA) on April 14 after he surrendered before the agency in Delhi. However, due to the lockdown, he could not be brought to Mumbai, where the case is being probed.After almost a month, the government relaxed the rules of travel, allowing Navlakha to be brought to the city. He was produced before the special NIA court in Mumbai on Tuesday, following which he was taken to Taloja jail. He has been remanded in judicial custody till June 22.“We will follow the protocol for any new admission. As per the procedure, he will be sent to the quarantine centre at Gokhale High School in Taloja,” said SH Kurlekar, superintendent of police, Taloja jail. Navlakha will be kept under quarantine for 14 days.Meanwhile, his partner Sahba Husain alleged mischief behind Navlakha’s transfer from Delhi to Mumbai. She claimed that a plea for interim bail for Navlakha was scheduled for hearing on Wednesday, and just before that he was taken to Mumbai without intimating his family or legal team.It was only after seeking permission from the court that Navlakha could call her.Navlakha, along with other activists, has been arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and Indian Penal Code (IPC) for allegedly having Maoist links and being involved in the Elgar Parishad gathering on December 31, 2017, which triggered caste-based violence at Koregaon Bhima in Pune the next day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-gautam-navlakha-shifted-from-delhi-to-taloja-prison/story-SFGSuMlK3vFyeZq1fcdUuM.html
26-05-2020||City||HP education minister felicitated by World Book of Records, London||Himachal Pradesh education minister Suresh Bhardwaj has been awarded for spreading positivity during ongoing coronavirus pandemic by the World Book of Records, London. His efforts and work during the lockdown period will be covered in Star 2020.He has been presented with an online certificate.A spokesperson of the World Book of Records said that his efforts as a silent warrior in Covid-19 are commendable. He has been engaged in the service of the people since lockdown was imposed which has created an atmosphere of positivity.A survey was conducted by the World Book of Records in various countries and in various states of India and Suresh Bhardwaj and others were selected on the basis of the survey, he said.World Book of Records, UK is an organisation that lists and verifies exceptional records worldwide with certification. It is a paramount international organisation that inspires people to showcase their talents and encourages people to establish and break records nationally and internationally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-education-minister-felicitated-by-world-book-of-records-london/story-MHnUns6Yfvw24ndiWufUWP.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh realtor arrested for stalking woman||A small-time property dealer was arrested for stalking a woman and later sent to judicial custody here on Monday, police said. The woman who is in her late 20s said in her complaint that she had met accused Vikey Rana of Maloya while looking for a rented accommodation a few months back. Rana had shown her an apartment which she had decided not to take, but police said he kept calling and texting her. A case was registered under sections 354A (sexual harassment) and 354D (stalking) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Maloya police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-realtor-arrested-for-stalking-woman/story-PyQ3G5cySwxeTTeXrfLMgO.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Mercury breaches 43°C mark in Chandigarh, but cloudy weather ahead||Maximum temperature in Chandigarh went up to 43.1°C on Tuesday, the highest this year. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD) records, mercury didn’t breach the 43°C mark last May, the highest temperature being recorded at 42.7°C on May 30.On Tuesday, maximum temperature was a notch above that recorded the previous day (42°C) and four degrees above normal. At 25.2°C, minimum temperature was a notch above the previous day’s reading and the normal. Maximum temperature is likely to start dropping from Wednesday amid cloudy weather and will be back in the 30s from Thursday. “A system of western disturbances is likely to begin affecting the region from Thursday onwards, and is expected to bring up to 20mm rain along with gusty winds at speeds up to 40km/hour,” said an IMD official.In the next three days, maximum temperature is likely to remain between 35 and 42 degrees while minimum is expected to be between 26 and 27 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mercury-breaches-43-c-mark-in-chandigarh-but-cloudy-weather-ahead/story-0hIz5jHboOPTu5kCscvTxI.html
26-05-2020||City||Graft case: Former HP health director sent to 5-day police custody||A local court here on Tuesday sent Himachal Pradesh’s director of health services Dr Ajay Gupta to 5-day police custody in connection with a graft case.He was produced in the court of Arvind Malhotra, the district and session judge (forest) Shimla. Vigilance sleuths have also sent Gupta’s mobile phone for forensic investigation. He will be questioned again on various purchases made by his department during his tenure.His arrest on Wednesday night came following the surfacing of an audio in which he was purportedly heard seeking a bribe of ₹5 lakh. Searches were conducted in the office and residence of Ajay Gupta under the supervision of SP SIU Shalini Agnihotri and certain documents were seized pertaining to various purchases made by the health department. He has been placed under suspension by the state government.He was arrested by the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau under Sections 7 and 8 of the Prevention of Corruption Act. Due to low blood sugar and hypertension, he was admitted to Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital. He was discharged on Monday and taken to the prison subsequently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/graft-case-former-hp-health-director-sent-to-5-day-police-custody/story-qcon3FynYq6bhhgjU7eTYK.html
26-05-2020||City||Police stop CMO on way to work in Kashmir’s Bandipora, doctors to hold protest||A day after a senior cardiologist allegedly complained of being harassed by cops in the city, the chief medical officer (CMO) of Bandipora was stopped on his way to work by the police on Tuesday.“I was going to visit quarantine and sample collection centres when the police stopped me near Nusoo area in Bandipora at a checkpoint and told me to take another route. Despite telling them I was the CMO and had urgent official work, they didn’t listen,” said CMO Tajamul Hussain.Following this, the CMO got off the vehicle and shouted his concerns at the police. “Complete health system will fall without us. Can’t you see this is CMO’s vehicle? You are harassing doctors. Yesterday, you beat up a doctor in Srinagar. Are we coming out for ourselves? We are risking our lives to save the people,” the CMO is seen saying in a video of the incident now doing rounds on social media.A cop on duty is seen telling the CMO to talk to the SP concerned.Hussain said he was only allowed to proceed after the Bandipora deputy commissioner (DC) intervened in the matter. “They (police) will not let us work,” the CMO lamented.Meanwhile, Doctors Association Kashmir (DAK) has announced a black-band protest across the Union territory following the recent incidents in which doctors were allegedly manhandled, harassed and not allowed to reach hospitals.“We are announcing a one day black band protest on Wednesday over the excesses by government forces against healthcare providers,” said DAK president Dr Suhail Naik.The Resident Doctors’ Association (RDA) of Government Medical College and Hospital, Srinagar, has also condemned the incident calling it ‘highly unfortunate’. Moreover, doctors affiliated with GMCH Srinagar and its associated hospitals held a protest on Tuesday at Super Speciality Hospital in Srinagar against the government for failing to ensure their security.Kashmir health services director Samir Matoo said he will take up the matter with the higher ups after getting a complete report from the CMO. “Such incidents demoralise the staff,” he said.However, Bandipora DC Shahbaz Mirza said the matter has been resolved. “There was some confusion due to the traffic restrictions ordered in the market as they had planned to open up certain areas,” he said.Bandipora SSP Rahul Malik said ‘unnecessary weight’ was being given to the issue as they were following orders of the district administration. “The matter was quickly resolved,” he said.Meanwhile, Kashmir inspector general of police (IGP) Vijay Kumar on Tuesday ordered police officers to facilitate Covid-19 warriors, especially doctors and paramedics, in the valley. “You are advised to hold a meeting with the concerned CMOs and request them to brief the doctors and paramedics to co-operate with police,” the IGP said.On Monday, a senior cardiologist of Shri Maharaja Hari Singh Hospital, Dr Syed Maqbool, had lodged a police complaint and alleged that he was beaten up and harassed in downtown area of Srinagar recently by the policeman deployed on the road while he was on his way to work. The police have started an enquiry while maintaining that the doctor had manhandled the cop on duty.These issues have created uproar on social media in Srinagar with many doctors saying this is how frontline workers in Kashmir are being treated by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-stop-cmo-on-way-to-work-in-kashmir-s-bandipora-doctors-to-hold-protest/story-ID8VS4Q6kZSk6XFHTuPPHP.html
26-05-2020||City||24 more test positive for Covid-19 in Himachal, tally climbs to 247||Twenty-four more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday, taking the state’s tally to 247.Fifteen cases were reported in Hamirpur, three each in Kangra and Shimla , two in Chamba and one in Una.With this, the active cases in the state are now 175, said Nipun Jindal, special secretary (health).Hamirpur deputy commissioner Harikesh Meena said people who tested positive have a travel history to Mumbai and other places. They were under institutional quarantine.In Shimla district, a man from Rohru sub-division has tested positive for the virus. He had returned from Pune on May 19 and was under institutional quarantine.Two more cases were reported in the evening. They were quarantined at Deha in Theog sub-division.Two cases were reported from Chamba. Hailing from the same family, the duo returned from Saharanpur and were under institutional quarantine.Three members of a family,including a 40-year-old man, his wife and childrena aged three and seven, have tested positive in Gopalpur village of Kangra’s Palampur sub-division. They had travelled from Gandhinagar in Gujarat on May 20, Kangra DC Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said.Two of their co-travelers had tested positive on Monday.One case was reported from Una. The patient returned from Delhi on May 19 and was under institutional quarantine. Himachal has witnessed a spurt in Covid-19 cases after May 4 with 207 people testing positive for the virus. As many as 155 cases have been reported over the week.So far, a total of 247 cases have been reported including five fatalities. Three men and two women are among the dead.Hamirpur was the worst-hit district with 77 cases followed by Kangra with 62 cases. Thirty-one have been reported in Una, 20 each in Solan and Chamba, 11 each in Mandi and Bilaspur, nine in Shimla, four in Sirmaur, and one in Kullu.As many as 63 people have recovered.COVID PATIENT CREMATED AMID PROTEST BY VILLAGERSA 62-year-old woman, who died due to Covid-19 at Lal Bahadur Shashtri Government Medical College (LBSGMC), Nerchowk on Monday, was cremated by the villagers on Tuesday.The district authorities have marked a cremation ground on the banks of Suketi rivulet at Kansa in Dadaur ward of Nerchowk Municipal Council. However, when the deceased’s body was being taken for cremation, over 100 villagers led by the local councillor began protesting.Protestors even blocked the path to the cremation ground with boulders. They demanded that there was a cremation ground at the deceased’s native village Ratti and she should be cremated there.As the protest escalated, Balh SDM Ashish Sharma and Mandi DSP Anil Patial rushed to the spot and tried to convince the villagers.Later, the cremation took place amid heavy security. Police had to deploy quick-reaction teams to avert any untoward incidents as villagers were unrelenting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ten-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-himachal-tally-climbs-to-233/story-k1Q4DUmj4v9o8eBrSawlnN.html
26-05-2020||City||Gurugram to fund garbage collection in Faridabad||Gurugram: The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will incur expenses for waste collection in Faridabad, where the lockdown has further hit cash-strapped local civic body’s revenues, said officials on Monday.MCG officials said the Faridabad civic body was further short of funds and unable to pay the tipping fees to the waste collection concessionaire Ecogreen Private Limited for April. Subsequently, the Haryana government directed MCG to pay tipping fees to Ecogreen on behalf of the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF) from this month. “The state government asked us to pay our waste concessionaire the tipping fees for the MCF starting this month. Accordingly, we have complied and started helping MCF monetarily,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.In August 2017, the MCG, MCF, and Haryana government signed a joint-agreement with Ecogreen for the door-to-door collection of waste in Gurugram and Faridabad. As part of the agreement, the two civic bodies have to pay Ecogreen ₹1,000 for every tonne of waste collected as ‘tipping fees’ on a monthly basis. According to Ecogreen officials, they collect around 1,200 tonnes of waste from Gurugram every day and 900 tonnes from Faridabad. The MCF pays around ₹2.5-3 crore for waste collection in Faridabad and MCG pays ₹3.5-4 crore every month, depending on the final load. Singh said the MCG is paying the tipping fees on behalf of the MCF as a loan, and the Faridabad civic body is expected to pay the sum back when their finances are more stable.In 2010, just two years after its formation, the MCG had lent ₹150 crore to the MCF. A decade later, MCG officials said these dues are yet to be cleared and added that they wouldn’t be funding MCF for any other aspect besides waste collection, unless the state government states otherwise.MCF was formed in 1993.“MCF is facing a financial crunch presently. Although they didn’t list an exact reason, I believe that to ensure the continuity of services, the state government asked MCG to pay Ecogreen on behalf of MCF. Ultimately, these funds between the MCG and MCF have to be settled and we will be paying MCG for all pending dues,” said Yash Garg, commissioner, MCF.Garg said the MCG is only paying funds for waste collection and nothing else, as it is one of the primary signatories in the agreement between Ecogreen, and the two civic bodies.“The Haryana government has issued a circular stating that the MCG would be paying tipping fees on behalf of MCF. It is simply an understanding between two municipal corporations,” said an official spokesperson for Ecogreen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-to-fund-garbage-collection-in-faridabad/story-YZvH8cTZKWpBltPHc4FugP.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 cases surge in Himachal, state braces for a long-drawn battle||Himachal was on the brink of being declared Covid-free when the state witnessed a surge in coronavirus cases from May 4.Confident that the state had seen the last of the deadly disease, Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur had said the state will become Covid-free by May 5. However, it seems the state is in for a long-drawn battle as the Covid-19 tally of the state has already crossed the 200-mark and cases continue to increase relentlessly.THE SECOND WAVEHimachal had reported its first Covid-19 case on March 20 in Kangra. On April 23, the toll stood at 40 cases, including one fatality. It seemed the worst was behind the state, when no cases were reported till May 3. However, the spell was broken after Himachal opened its borders to facilitate the return of those stranded in other states, triggering a second wave.From May 13, the Shramik special train also started ferrying Himachal residents from Mumbai, which significantly contributed to the spike in cases.FASTER DOUBLING, SLOWER RECOVERYSpecial secretary (health) Nipun Jindal said at present, the doubling rate of Covid-19 cases in Himachal was 5.9 days, which is troubling as the national average is 15.1 days. Just a week ago, the doubling rate of the disease in Himachal was 10.7 days.The doubling rate sharply increased after a sudden spike in cases after May 20, when Himachal’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 100-mark, two months (61 days) after it recorded its first case.However, the 200-mark was breached within four days or 65 days after the first case was reported in the state.Over the week, 125 people have tested positive for the disease in the state.“The fatality rate of the state is 2.38% against the national average of 2.57%,” Jindal said, adding the recovery rate was 30% against the national average of 41%.However, the state’s testing rate is 3,554 people per million, which is better than the national testing rate of 2,488 per million, Jindal said.90% CASES ARE RETURNEES Around 90% of the cases recorded during the second surge are returnees. Most of them have travelled back from Mumbai and Delhi. Others came back from Chennai, Bangalore, Goa, West Bengal and Gujarat.As per government data, around 1.30 lakh migrants have returned to the state since April.Around 6,000 people have returned in Shramik special trains while others travelled in private vehicles and buses deployed by the state government.ALL RETURNEES IN INSTITUTIONAL QUARANTINE The silver lining amid the grim readings is that most of the returnees found positive were institutionally quarantined and there is no community transmission.Only one case of community transmission has been reported from Chamba where a Covid-19 positive man infected four others.WORST HIT, COVID-FREE DISTRICTSHamirpur, Kangra and Una are the worst hit districts in the state accounting for 68% of the cases. Till date, Hamirpur has reported 63 cases, followed by Kangra with 59 cases and Una with 30 cases.Kangra has the highest population while Hamirpur has the highest population density in the state. A significant number of people in both states are working in other states.WHAT LIES NEXT?The Covid-19 cases in the state are likely to increase in the coming days. Till date, the state has tested 28,000 samples for Covid-19. Given, the large number of returnees who are yet to be tested, there seems to be no relief in the near future. The state government has now authorised district magistrates to extend the lockdown, if the situation requires, till June 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-cases-surge-in-himachal-state-braces-for-a-long-drawn-battle/story-6rRHChxFpjaAf1tqiVY0YI.html
26-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi sizzles at 46 degrees Celsius as heatwave continues||A heat wave continued to scorch Delhi on Tuesday with the maximum temperature breaching the 46 degrees Celsius-mark in some areas while the average maximum temperature was 45 degrees Celsius, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).The heatwave is expected to last till Wednesday with similar temperatures.According to the IMD’s forecast, the maximum temperature is expected to fall to 42 degrees Celsius on Thursday with the possibility of the development of thunder.On Friday, the temperature is forecast to fall further to 39 degrees Celsius with the possibility of dust storm or thunderstorm.More relief is expected on Saturday and Sunday when the maximum temperature is expected to remain between 34 and 35 degrees Celsius before rising to 38 degrees on Monday (June 1).Dust storms and thunderstorms with winds gusting up to 60 kilometres per hour is likely over the National Capital Region on Friday and Saturday, said Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the IMD, according to PTI.On Tuesday, the Safdarjung Observatory recorded a high of 44 degrees Celsius while the weather stations at Palam, Lodhi Road and Aya Nagar recorded maximum temperatures at 46.2 degrees, 44 degrees and 45.6 degrees Celsius respectively around their areas.The IMD has issued an ‘orange’ warning for parts of Delhi on Tuesday for a heat wave. A ‘red’ warning is issued for a severe heat wave.Much of north, northwestern and central India including Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, parts of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh are facing heatwave conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-sizzles-at-46-degrees-celsius-as-heatwave-continues/story-4ksA7X4o7O2YE5vkKcBHQM.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||No homes, and now this heat: No respite for migrant workers in Ludhiana||Without homes, sitting out in the open, waiting for train or bus tickets to return to their homes in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh (UP), migrant workers camping near the Guru Nanak Stadium have been hit hard by soaring temperatures in a city that recorded its hottest day this year at 44 degrees Celsius on Tuesday.Many children at the camp appeared tired and listless while infants cried as their parents frantically tried to keep them cool with hand fans fashioned out of cardboard and plastic. Many were dipping pieces of cloth in water and wiping down the bodies of the children.Several migrants took shelter under trees in the well-maintained gardens outside the homes of bureaucrats, judicial and police officials living in the area.For the migrants, it’s one blow after another with the Covid-19 outbreak rendering them jobless and the heatwave adding to their misery.They say they have no place for shelter as they have vacated their rented accommodation and are camping on the roads. “We can endure the scorching summer but seeing the children cry because of the heat disturbs us,” said Shambhu Nath, a resident of Gorakhpur in UP sitting on the pavement outside Rakh Bagh near Guru Nanak Stadium.Shiv Ram, also waiting to board a train to UP, said he could not wait to get back home.Meanwhile, the health department has issued an advisory to people to protect themselves from the severe heat wave. Civil surgeon Rajesh Bagga has asked the department to maintain a record of heat stroke patients being admitted in hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-homes-and-now-this-heat-no-respite-for-migrant-workers-in-ludhiana/story-cCsDkCHtUk56BV4lNJ9NPL.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Heatwave enforces lockdown in the north as some cities register record highs||As heatwave conditions prevailed in the region due to dry winds blowing over northwest, central and adjoining interior parts of eastern India, Chandigarh recorded a high of 42.4 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, Amritsar and Ludhiana 44 degrees and Patiala 43.2 degrees, even as the India meteorological department (IMD) advised people to stay indoors and said some relief was expected by March 28.Ludhiana recorded its highest temperature this summer.No respite was forecast for Amritsar till after May 27, after which spells of rain were expected. The lockdown due to Covid-19 was making things worse, said resident Gurleen Kaur, “as we are forced to go out to buy essential items and stand in the sun for long hours because of social distancing.” Drinking water was the best option, said Amritsar based Dr Rakesh Sharma, adding, “people should also keep their body dry to avoid skin infections.”‘HEAT STROKE CAN BE DANGEROUS’In Patiala, apart from the lockdown, the heat kept people indoors, with Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra saying the IMD had predicted a severe heat wave with maximum temperatures likely to cross 45°C. Advising people to exercise caution, he said “such high temperatures can lead to a heat stroke, resulting in physiological strain and even death.”“Wear lightweight, light-coloured, loose and porous cotton clothes and when outside, use protective goggles, umbrella or a hat,” the civil surgeon added, saying children should also not be allowed outIMD’s deputy director general of meteorology, KS Hosalikar in Delhi, cautioned people to “watch out for hot afternoons and avoid going out between 11 am and 3 pm,” PTI reported.WHAT NOT TO DOAvoid alcohol, tea, coffee and carbonated soft drinks, as they dehydrate the body Avoid high-protein food Do not leave children or pets in parked vehicles or allow them to play outdoors in the afternoonIn Ludhiana, Prabhjyot Kaur, head of the department of school of climate change and agricultural meteorology, said maximum temperatures were expected to stay above 40 degrees, which would be helpful in creating low pressures, favourable for the advancing monsoon current towards the north. Kaur also said western disturbances leading to moderate rainfall by May 29 would bring some respite from the heat in the city.Heatwave conditions would persist over Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, east Madhya Pradesh, and Vidarbha till May 28, IMD officials saidNo one was taking risks. “Due to the lockdown earlier I was stepping out of home only when necessary, but now I go out only in the evening, said Ranvinder Singh Gill, a resident of Chandigarh’s Sector 8.WHAT TO DO Use oral rehydration therapy (ORS), homemade drinks like lassi, torani (rice water), lime water, buttermilkCover hats, use umbrella and wear sunglasses when outdoorsThose affected by sun stroke should be given first-aid immediately, their heads bathed with water (room temperature) and bodies wiped with wet towels to bring down body temperature before they are taken to hospitalAs staying dehydrated was necessary, Gill said he had stocked up on lemons and was making the cooling shikanji with lemon juice and black salt.Chirag Puri, an e-commerce firm employee currently working from home said he found it unbearably warm while getting his car repaired at a workshop. “I am keeping hydrated with glucose and mango shakes and won’t be stepping out now from 1 pm to 5 pm from my house.”Things were also not easy for traffic policemen. On how they coped, constable Rajiv Sharma said, “We make it a point not to stand in direct sunlight for long and keep moving. We have to keep drinking water so we bring lime water from home to help us.” People in the shops and local residents offered them lemonade in the afternoons, he said.WESTERN DISTURBANCE TO BRING RELIEFChandigarh IMD scientist Shivinder Singh said the heatwave in the region had been caused by hot surface winds blowing in from Rajasthan, where at some stations the maximum temperature had crossed 47 degrees C.Some respite was possible by Thursday when a western disturbance was likely to affect the region. “Cloudy weather and a chance of light rain up to 20mm along with gusty winds up to 40km are likely to bring the maximum temperature back in the 30s,” he said.UT director health services Dr G Dewan also issued an advisory on Tuesday, asking people to avoid direct exposure to sunlight, staying indoors in well ventilated areas and avoiding electric fans when temperatures shot up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/heatwave-enforces-lockdown-in-the-north-as-some-cities-register-record-highs/story-AMk779NB8lQVyVvJBXX5cI.html
26-05-2020||City||Tribal bhawans to soon reopen in Himachal||Two months after the countrywide lockdown was enforced to combat coronavirus pandemic, the Himachal Pradesh government on Tuesday decided to reopen the tribal bhawans to facilitate the people of tribal regions visiting the urban areas for medical treatment.Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday addressed the members of different panchayati raj institutions of tribal Kinnaur, Lahaul and Spiti and remote Pangi region of Chamba district. Thakur said that the state government would soon start the functioning of Tribal Bhawan at Shimla so that tribal people coming to Shimla for treatment and for any emergent situation could get boarding and lodging facilities there.CM said that the elected representatives of the panchayati raj institutions were playing a vital role not only in development of the rural areas but also ensuring that the villages stay safe from Covid-19. He said that most of the Panchayats have also done great work in motivating the people to maintain social distancing and also for using face masks.Jai Ram Thakur thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for providing ₹20 lakh crore economic reforms package for the country. He said that the package envisages the welfare of all sections of the society and has something to offer for each and every sector. He said that the state would be immensely benefitted by this package. He said that ₹40,000 crore additional funds have been provided for MGNREGA which would definitely help in generating more employment opportunities in the rural areas besides improving developmental infrastructure in these areas of the state.“The fourth phase of lockdown has forced us to rethink that we all have to live with this virus, thus start our economic activities for strengthening the economy,” he said.He added that the state government also provided certain relaxations in the curfew so that economic activities could be started in the state in a phased manner.Jai Ram Thakur said that lakh of Himachali students, workers and other people were stranded in different parts of the country. He said the state was committed to their welfare. He said that this has resulted in a sharp increase in the number of corona cases in the state. He said that all the people coming from other parts of the country were being kept under quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tribal-bhawans-to-soon-reopen-in-himachal/story-XqOfrALikSF7AxetmB5LcI.html
26-05-2020||Mumbai||145 Shramik Special trains planned for Maharashtra, only 13 run so far: Railways||As the feud between the Maharashtra government and the Railways refuses to die down, the national transporter on Tuesday accused the state of not providing information about passengers as a result of which many Shramik Special trains could not be run.Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal tweeted that the Railways had planned 145 trains for Tuesday but only 13 trains could be run till 3.00 pm due to lack of passengers.“On request of Maharashtra govt, we arranged 145 Shramik Special Trains today. These trains are ready since morning. Fifty trains were to leave till 3 pm but only 13 trains have due to lack of passengers.“I request Maharashtra government to fully cooperate in ensuring that the distressed migrants are able to reach their homes and bring passengers to stations in time, and not cause further delays. It will affect the entire network and planning,” Goyal tweeted. Earlier, the Railways had issued statements saying that it planned 125 trains for evacuating migrants from Maharashtra on May 25 but the state government was only able to give information for 41 trains till 2 am.“Out of these 41 trains, only 39 trains could run as passengers could not be brought by local authorities and these two trains had to be cancelled.“After meticulous planning and sustained effort, the Railways mobilised its resources at a very short notice and prepared 145 Shramik trains to depart from Maharashtra on May 26,” a statement issued by the Railways said.“Till 12 noon, 25 trains were planned from Maharashtra to run but no departure could happen due to lack of passengers. Boarding of the first train could only commence at CSMT at 12.30 pm,” it said.According to the Railways, 68 trains were planned to depart for Uttar Pradesh, 27 to Bihar, 41 to West Bengal, one each to Chattisgarh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Uttarakhand and Kerala and two each to Odisha and Tamil Nadu.Over the past two days, a political slugfest over Shramik Special trains had begun between Goyal and the Maharashtra government with the state alleging that not enough trains were being provided to them.Goyal on Sunday night said, “We are ready to provide 125 Shramik Special trains to Maharashtra.” “Since you have said that you have a list ready that is why I am requesting you to please provide all information like from where the train will run, the list of passengers according to the trains, their medical certificate and where the train is to go, to the General Manager of Central Railway within the next hour, so that we can plan the time of trains,” he had tweeted.Commenting on it, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Monday tweeted, “Maharashtra government has given you a list of workers who wish to return home. The only request is that the train should reach the station, as announced earlier.” “The Gorakhpur-bound train had reached Odisha,” the Sena’s Rajya Sabha member further said.He also asked Goyal if the Ministry of Railways had made any such list while running the Nagpur-Udhampur migrant train on May 14. PTI ASG KJ||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/145-shramik-special-trains-planned-for-maharashtra-only-13-run-so-far-railways/story-fMjerv8b3tQNO0vXDiBtiL.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Two arrested for raping minor in Nerwa||Two persons were arrested for raping a minor girl in Nerwa here on Tuesday.The Class-7 student was raped by a 40-year-old man on May 8 when she was feeding the cattle in a patch of forest close to her house. On May 10, another 32-year-old man raped her in the same woods.The girl told her parents about the sexual assaults, after which her parents filed a complaint through the Gudiya Helpline. Subsequently, the police arrested the accused.Chopal deputy superintendent of police (DSP) said a case had been registered under Sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-arrested-for-raping-minor-in-nerwa/story-6vPFEwCGCTvpyizallExGM.html
26-05-2020||Pune||As air services resume, Pune’s Lohegaon airport sees 17 flight operations||On the first day of resumption of flight services, which were suspended for two months, the Pune international airport, on Monday, handled arrival and departure of 17 flights till 8 pm.Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh said, “As of 8pm, 672 passengers arrived in nine flights and 985 passengers departed in eight flights at Pune’s Lohegaon airport,” said Singh. On Tuesday, 16 flights will operate from Pune airport while 15 flights scheduled earlier have been cancelled, according to Singh.A total of 34 flight operation movement is scheduled at the Pune airport this week, which includes flights coming from Delhi, Chennai, Cochin, Belgaum, Kolkata, Bengaluru, Jaipur, Hyderabad and Ahmedabad.To help in the smooth arrival of passengers at the airport, Pune police considered their boarding passes as digital passes for movement.Pune police commissioner in his tweet said, “To facilitate flight travellers using private vehicles for pick and drop at the Pune airport, the boarding pass will be considered as digital pass and for taxi, commuters can use dial a rickshaw facility on WhatsApp number 9859198591 which provides sanitised vehicles at government rates.”At airport, the officials took safety measures in view of the Covid threat. “All the necessary safety arrangements for the passengers at the Pune airport have been done, as per coordination with the Pune district administration. We don’t ask passengers to wear a PPE kit with full body coverall, hood while travelling for safety purpose. We require that the passenger should have green status on Aarogya Setu app, normal body temperature and wear face mask at all times,” said Singh.Parking facility instructions given by the authorities state that “All passengers at Pune airport must note that there is limited parking facility available. So no overnight and long term parking is currently available.”While for the arriving passengers Pune airport authorities have instructed that, “All arriving passengers are stamped on their hand and advised 14 days home isolation with self-monitoring of their health.”The Pune airport is set to run the operations of a total 17 flights of which seven flights will operate daily, rest of the flights some will operate six or five days a week. The flight schedule will be updated regularly for the convenience of the passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/as-air-services-resume-pune-s-lohegaon-airport-sees-17-flight-operations/story-ChClZGNzNgKm5NZgU1fIjP.html
26-05-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan restores 8-hour working in factories||The Rajasthan government has restored the working hours for factory workers to eight hours per day, according to an official statement.  On April 24, the government had increased the working hours to 12 from 8 hours per day to reduce the requirement of workers in all the registered factories, in view of the coronavirus spread. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Almost all the factories are currently being operated during the coronavirus epidemic. The movement of workers has also started and no pass is required. Public transport has also started in many areas like Green, Orange Zone, etc,” state labour minister Tikaram Jully said in the statement. He said the management of factories and workers employed there are working as per the guidelines issued by the Centre and the state government regarding social distancing and safety. The order issued last month to increase working hours was initially for three months for factories registered under the Factories Act, 1948. But it has been withdrawn in a month’s time.  In recent weeks, various state governments, including Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, have either made amendments or proposed changes to existing labour laws as part of larger efforts to help businesses that have been hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-restores-8-hour-working-in-factories/story-y1ysqxWU98XZHgjcgGuAYL.html
26-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s Covid-19 cases rise to 14,465, death toll goes up to 288||The coronavirus death toll in Delhi has mounted to 288, while 412 fresh cases of COVID-19 infection were reported on Tuesday, taking the virus tally in the city to 14,465, authorities said.The city had recorded the highest spike in fresh cases -- 660 -- on May 22. On Monday, 635 fresh cases were reported.In a bulletin issued on Tuesday, the Delhi health department said, the death toll from coronavirus infection has risen to 288, and the total number of cases mounted to 14,465.  It, however, added the cumulative death figures refers to fatalities where primary cause of death was found to be COVID-19, as per the report of the Death Audit Committee on the basis of case sheets received from various hospitals.On Monday, the total number of cases stood at 14,053, including 276 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-covid-19-tally-rises-to-14-465-death-toll-goes-up-to-288/story-IabuymHm24F8eu6BIam14H.html
26-05-2020||Pune||Covid-19: Pune sees biggest single-day rise with 459 cases||Pune district in Maharashtra on Monday registered its biggest single-day jump in Covid-19 cases since the outbreak began in March, with 459 people testing positive for novel coronavirus.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe district’s Covid-19 count is now 6,153, with Pune municipal limits accounting for the lion’s share of 5,247 cases, followed by 383 in Pimpri Chinchwad and 523 in rural and cantonment areas.“Of the 459 fresh cases, 388 were in Pune City, 38 in Pimpri Chinchwad and 33 in other parts. Monday also saw eight deaths from the infection, taking the toll to 280 so far,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-pune-sees-biggest-single-day-rise-with-459-cases/story-UEzd67F4TdSiCSd3U7mnCI.html
26-05-2020||Pune||Pune airport handles 17 flights on first day of resumption||On the first day of resumption of flight services, the Pune international airport in Maharashtra has handled arrival and departure of 17 scheduled flights by Monday late evening, a senior aviation official said.Domestic passenger flight operations, which remained suspended for two months owing to the nationwide lockdown necessitated by the coronavirus pandemic, resumed on Monday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Till Monday late evening, nine flights carrying 672 passengers landed at the Pune airport while eight flights with 985 passengers have taken off,” said a Pune Airport Authority official.With services of app-based cab aggregators not available as Pune falls in the Covid red zone, the passengers have been instructed to travel to and from the airport either in their own vehicles or use dial a rickshaw facility, he said.While no arriving passenger was stamped for “home quarantine”, Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram said they are awaiting Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) from the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-airport-handles-17-flights-on-first-day-of-resumption/story-8YB8wgrX8lBFjdlTxbKkfP.html
26-05-2020||Delhi||Traffic snarls at Ghaziabad’s UP-Gate border after authorities restrict movement to Delhi||Heavy traffic jams were reported in Ghaziabad at UP-Gate border near east Delhi on Tuesday morning after the city police restricted movement of vehicles to the national capital following an order by the district magistrate. The Ghaziabad district administration on Monday issued directions once again restricting the movement of commuters to Delhi and said they will be need passes if they wished to travel to Delhi. Those in exempted categories will be allowed to pass, they said.“There were jams at the border as we conducted checks in compliance of the order by the district magistrate. We have opened the UP-Gate and Anand Vihar-Kaushambi border for commuters but they are allowed passage to Delhi only on the basis of passes issued by the administration,” Anshu Jain, Indirapuram’s circle officer, said.“So far, we have allowed passage to vehicles involved in essential service through the flyover at UP-Gate. So such vehicles entering Delhi without any hindrance. Below the flyover, we are trying to create separate lanes for different categories of commuters. The plan will be put in place after discussions,” she added.Jaivir Singh from Vaishali in Ghaziabad, one of those stuck at UP-Gate, said he was not allowed entry to Delhi without a pass.“I reached the border but was sent back as the cops said that I need to get a valid pass to go to Delhi. The Delhi government has opened offices and the Ghaziabad cops did not allow entry through my official identification card,” Singh, who works with the municipal corporation of Delhi, said.“So, I came back after waiting for about an hour. There was no point in waiting at the border in the scorching summer heat,” he added.He added that for past about a week, the movement at the border was eased and there was no such issue.Like Singh, Neeraj Kumar also goes to Delhi’s Lajpat Nagar, where he works with a private company involved in sales of cars.“The cops did not allow me entry to Delhi and I had to return back. They asked me to apply for passes in order to move to Delhi. Now, I have told my office to apply for passes. Till then I will have to wait,” Kumar, a resident of Sanjay Nagar in Ghaziabad, said.“Generally, we find jams at the border while coming home in the evening. Then, the cops make strict checks of ID cards and passes while allowing us into Ghaziabad jurisdiction from Delhi. But now they have started similar checks in the morning which has resulted in the jam at the UP-Gate border. Many commuters were told to return and not allowed entry to Delhi without a pass,” he added.The Ghaziabad administration in an order on Monday evening had issued directions for restricting the movement citing that people travelling to Delhi were getting infected with Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and a number of such cases emerged, majorly in the month of May.Vehicles engaged in essential services have been allowed to move without any restrictions while doctors, paramedical staff, police and bank employees will be asked to produce their identification cards.Likewise, media persons and lawyers can also cross the borders after showing their identity cards. However, employees of private firms with offices in Delhi will have to apply for passes.The order also states that commuters are advised to leave Ghaziabad maximum by 9am and return only after 6pm. Officials said those wanting to travel to Delhi can apply for passes at http://164.100.68.164/upepass2/.“The persons coming from hotspot areas of Delhi will not be allowed entry to Ghaziabad. Likewise, no one will be allowed entry to any hotspot areas in Ghaziabad. Even, anyone residing in hotspot areas of Ghaziabad will be allowed to move out except for those involved in essential services,” the directions by the district magistrate, said.In a decision taken earlier on April 20, the district magistrate under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act had prohibited any travel between Ghaziabad and Delhi except for those involved in essential services or having valid passes.Officials said Monday’s direction was an extension of the May 18 lockdown 4.0 guidelines issued by the Uttar Pradesh government.Under the May 18 directions of chief secretary RK Tiwari, commuters from Delhi, other than those from hotspots, were allowed to travel to the National Capital Region (NCR) areas of Noida and Ghaziabad and the district administration was asked to issue detailed directions in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/traffic-snarls-at-ghaziabad-s-up-gate-border-after-authorities-restrict-movement-to-delhi/story-uLQzpLHCrgSiPAWAZz1rOP.html
26-05-2020||Patna||‘BJP richest party in world, doesn’t care for poor’: Tejashwi Yadav||RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav on Tuesday alleged that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is the richest party in the country as well as in the world and “it only cares for rich people and not the poor”. “BJP is not just the richest party in the country but also in the world. They only care for rich people and not the poor. The migrant labourers and weaker sections are dying but they (BJP) worry about their family and rich people. They will reach out to common people during elections to seek votes,” Yadav told ANI on being asked about BJP taking out rallies on the completion of one year of Narendra Modi’s second tenure as Prime Minister. He further stressed that migrant workers condition is appalling and the government should have taken adequate measures for their safety before implementing the Covid-19 lockdown. The RJD leader also attacked the Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar over poor condition of workers in the state as well as lack of facilities at the quarantine centres.“Quarantine centres in Bihar are not maintained well. The government has failed to make proper arrangements for the people under quarantine. If the government is failing to discharge its duty in a well-planned manner, then they can seek help from the opposition parties,” he said.Yadav also maintained that it is the moral duty of opposition parties to step forward to help all those in need amid Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bjp-richest-party-in-world-doesn-t-care-for-poor-tejashwi-yadav/story-GpF1nRjqdkBvPVMhkOohSI.html
26-05-2020||Lucknow||Yogi for expediting setting up of migration commission||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said that measures to set up the migration commission should be expedited to provide jobs to migrant workers, on Monday, amid controversy surrounding his move following Maharashtra Navnirman Sena chief Raj Thackeray’s objections.Yogi gave the directives on Monday at a meeting of his Team-11 convened to review the lockdown situation here.“Yes, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has asked for making efforts on a war footing to set up the migration commission. The commission will be set up in the next few days in accordance with the existing provisions of law,” said chief secretary RK Tiwari.At a webinar on Sunday, chief minister said his government would set up the commission in the interest of workers and if any other state wanted to use Uttar Pradesh’s manpower they would need to take the state government’s permission. “The migration commission will work in the interest of the migrant workers. If any other state wants UP’s manpower, they cannot take them away just like that. Those states will have to do it with the consent and permission of the UP government. The way our migrant workers were ill-treated in those states, the UP government will take their insurance, social security in its hands now. The UP government will stand with them wherever they work, whether in Uttar Pradesh, other states or other countries,” he said.Asked if the state government would study the Centre’s Inter State Migrant Workmen Act or go for enacting a new law to set up the commission, Tiwari said, “Our basic objective is to watch the welfare of migrant labourers and ensure that they get their wages.”The state government’s move about its prior permission for jobs in other states may, however, have to stand legal scrutiny with experts saying there can’t be any restriction on doing business in any part of the country. “The Constitution of India provides a fundamental right allowing every citizen free movement and the right to do business anywhere in India. The state government can enact any law for welfare of migrant labourers. It however cannot restrict these rights,” said former advisor to governor and legal expert CB Pandey.About 25 lakh migrant labourers have already reached the state. The state government is carrying out an exercise for skill mapping of the migrant labourers. An official spokesman said the skill mapping so far has indicated the largest number of 1,51,492 migrant workers have come from the real estate development sector. Yogi said the skill mapping exercise should continue and the district employment exchanges should be made useful, and help migrant labourers get a job.Earlier, reacting strongly to Yogi’s announcement, MNS chief Raj Thackeray, in a post on Twitter, on Monday, said, “The CM of Uttar Pradesh, Yogi Adityanath has stated that if the services of workers of UP are required, then prior permission of the UP government is essential. If such is the case, then any migrant entering Maharashtra too, would need to take permissions from us, from the Maharashtra state, our police force. Shri Adityanath needs to take cognizance of this.”Thackeray further said, “Also, the Maharashtra government needs to look into this matter seriously. In future, whenever migrants do enter our state, they will need to be registered and their personal details and their identification proof will need to be submitted to the police station. Only if these requirements are met with diligently, will they be allowed to enter Maharashtra. A strict adherence to the above needs to be followed by Maharashtra.”In another tweet Thackeray said, “Also, the migrant workers from UP will have voting rights only in UP. As per rules laid down, a voter can only vote from one place and cannot exercise their voting rights in two places. This fact needs to be realised by CM Adityanath, by Maharashtra and other states too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/yogi-for-expediting-setting-up-of-migration-commission/story-dHZunMvZlXqPacChWHKafK.html
26-05-2020||Lucknow||Agra’s 36 hotspots pose hurdles on road to normality||They are here, there and everywhere, both physically and psychologically. Thirty-six heavily barricaded hotspots in Agra district are a daily reminder to people here that the Taj city is far from being on the road to normality.The district has reported the maximum of 851 Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh and a death toll of 31.Agra’s tryst with the coronavirus began on March 2 when five positive cases were reported. The area where the affected family resided — Master Plan Road — was isolated from the remaining city.As the number of infected patients grew, more hotspot areas were marked.“Besides being a hurdle in movement on the road, these containment zones are almost like a psychological barrier. Till they continue to exist, one cannot expect normality,” says Dr Madhurima Sharma, head of the department of Hindi at St John’s College here.“Even if movement is allowed within the city with opening of markets, these containment zones will certainly keep one away,” Sharma says.“I recently went out to buy medicine. When I realised that I was quite close to a hotspot area, I dropped the idea and went to another locality for purchasing the medicine,” adds Dr Sharma.“With so many hotspots, no one can expect normality in our city. The value of ‘jaan’ (life) is deemed higher than ‘jahan’ (worldly affairs),” says Rajeev Gupta, former president of the National Chamber for Industries and Commerce.“With so many hotspot areas in the city, only shops for essential items would be approached. Thus, normality seem to be a far-fetched idea for Agra,” adds Gupta.“Anybody moving in the city for some distance comes across such containment zones where the roads are blocked. A suitable ambience for trade seems to be a distant dream with so many hotspots in the city,” says TN Agarwal, president of the Agra Vyapar Mandal.The footwear industry in Agra mostly has local workers who live in the hotspot areas, where the smaller units are located.The Taj Mahal, an attraction for tourists the world over, is in Tajganj, a major hotspot which has 64 Covid-19 cases.Some other hotspots have industrial units and commercial centres.HOW A HOTSPOT IS DECLARED Agra’s chief medical officer Dr RC Pandey says once a coronavirus case is found in a locality, the area is termed as a containment zone or hotspot.“Earlier, it used to be within a radius of one kilometre from the place where a Covid-19 case was found, but now we have reduced the area to 400 metres,” he says.“We apply certain restrictions and speed up sanitization in this area. The stress is on social distancing and movement within the containment zone is restricted to the best possible extent,” he adds.“After 21 days from the last Covid-19 case being reported, the area is removed from the list of hotspots,” Pandey says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/agra-s-36-hotspots-pose-hurdles-on-road-to-normality/story-eLcvNFGwJbcBHB6AciwmVP.html
26-05-2020||Jaipur||76 more Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan, state tally reaches 7,376||As many as 76 more Covid-19 cases have been reported from Rajasthan, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the state to 7,376, said the Rajasthan Health Department on Tuesday.“76 new Covid-19 positive cases reported in the state today; the total number of positive cases in the state now stands at 7,376,” said the state Health Department.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe maximum number of cases have been recorded in Jaipur (16) followed by Udaipur (13), Jhalawar (12), Rajsamand (11), Bikaner (5). It added that 16 patients have recovered in Jalore and Jaisalmer districts on May 25.As of Tuesday morning, there are 3,137 active Covid-19 cases in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/76-more-covid-19-cases-in-rajasthan-state-tally-reaches-7-376/story-SD10bu4ZZ9SLZXBGqHZBSN.html
26-05-2020||Bangalore||14,649 migrants leave Karnataka in 10 special trains||In all, 14,649 migrants left Karnataka in 10 Shramik special trains to their native places in northern, eastern and north-eastern states, an official said on Monday.“With 14,699 passengers leaving today (Monday), 230,616 migrants have been sent from across Karnataka in 162 Shramik trains to their home states in north and north-eastern regions of the country since May 3,” a South Western Railway (SWR) official told IANS here.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe first train left Hubballi in the state’s northwest region to Darbhanga in Bihar at 12 noon with 1,532 passengers, including migrants, stranded students, pilgrims, tourists, women and children.The remaining 9 trains left from Bengaluru, with second leaving Bengalore Cantonment (Cantt) to Muzzafarpur in Bihar at 1.50 pm with 1,599 passengers.Third train left Bengaluru Cantt to Bhagalpur in Bihar at 5.30 pm with 1,502 passengers.Fourth train left Bengaluru city to Balasore in Odisha at 6.17 pm with 1,600 passengers.Fifth train left Bengaluru Cantt to Saharsa in Bihar at 7.05 pm with 1,600 passengers.Sixth train left Bengaluru city to Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh at 7.35 pm with 1,200 passengers.Seventh train left Bengaluru Cantt to Hajipur in Bihar at 8.45 pm with 1,200 passengers.Eighth train left Bengaluru city to Bairabi in Mizoram at 9 pm with 1,456 passengers.Ninth train left Bengaluru Cantt to Araria in Bihar at 10.37 pm with 1,506 passengers.Tenth train left Bengaluru city to Bokaro steel city in Jharkhand at 11.09 pm with 1,454 passengers.“All the passengers were asymptomatic when screened after they registered their names with details on the Karnataka government’s Seva Sindu portal and informed their states for receiving and sending them to their native place,” said the official.The zonal railways is also supplied three meals to the migrants in the train, with each food packet containing rice bath, 4 chapati with pickle, 2 oranges, 2 one litre water bottle, 2 roti with sabji, 1 pack rice bath, 1 kara bun, 1 sweet bun. “NGOs (non-government organizations) like Wipro’s Azim Premji Foundation and Merch Mission are coordinating food supply with the state labour department,” the official added. Care is being taken to ensure social distancing, wearing of mask and sanitising of hands. Regular announcements were made to caution passengers against the spread of Covid-19 virus before departure from Bengaluru, and Hubballi. Hand sanitizer and liquid soap has been provided in all coaches to protect the migrants from the virus. The Railway Protection Force (RPF) is escorting the trains and ensuring social distancing.(The story has been published from a wire feed without any modifications to the text, only the headline has been changed. )||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/14-649-migrants-leave-karnataka-in-10-special-trains/story-4SXsoTt9MX9rwZdHMvti7O.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal government authorises district magistrates to extend curfew||The Himachal Pradesh government has authorised district magistrates to extend the curfew on their discretion.“The cabinet in a meeting held on May 23 has authorised district magistrates to extend curfew under Section 144 for more than two months up to June 30 if the situation so requires,” a spokesperson said.The government spokesperson said a curfew had been imposed in the entire state from March 24 in wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. Accordingly, the concerned district magistrates issued orders under Section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) in their respective districts to impose curfew.The spokesperson said the district magistrates cannot impose curfew in their respective districts for more than two months. However, since two months have elapsed and the coronavirus pandemic has still not be overcome, it was felt that there may be need to extend it further, he said.The present curfew will stay in force till May 31, 2020, after which district magistrates will take a call on whether to extend the curfew.SOLAN, HAMIRPUR EXTEND CURFEWSo far, curfew has been extended in two districts Solan and Hamirpur by the district magistrates concerned.The hill state has so far recorded 223 cases of coronavirus, including five causalities. A spurt was witnessed in Covid-19 cases after May 4 with 183 people testing positive for the virus.Hamirpur was the worst-hit district with 63 cases followed by Kangra with 59 cases.Thirty cases have been reported in Una, 20 in Solan, 18 in Chamba, 11 each in Mandi and Bilaspur, six in Shimla, four in Sirmaur, and one in Kullu.As many as 63 people have recovered. Three men and two women have died of the contagion so far. The state has conducted around 24,000 tests for Covid-19 so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-government-authorises-district-magistrates-to-extend-curfew/story-oMo48gNtFuVDnefWSydLlL.html
26-05-2020||Lucknow||UP: FIR against Alka Lamba for indecent remarks against PM Modi, Yogi Adityanath||An FIR has been registered against Congress leader Alka Lamba at Lucknow’s Hazratganj police station over her indecent and objectionable remarks against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. The complaint was filed against Lamba by Dr Preeti Verma, member of the Uttar Pradesh Child Protection Commission. The FIR has been lodged under sections 504, 505(1)(b) and 505(2) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).In a video shared by Lamba on Twitter, she was seen slamming Prime Minister Modi and Adityanath and calling the duo “impotent”, in terms of performing their duties. She went on saying that she spits on their face. She also cornered Prime Minister and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister for playing the Muslim and Dalit card for political gains. Citing Unnao Rape case in which former MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar was involved, she termed ‘Beti Bachao’ campaign a “flop show”, alleging that the government has failed to protect daughters of India and provide justice to the victims. Lamba further wrote on Twitter that the video she shared is 2-year old, which has been seen by nearly one crore people so far. “When blind “Bhakts” (devotees) could not find anything against me, then they searched this old video for FIR,” she wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-fir-against-alka-lamba-for-indecent-remarks-against-pm-modi-yogi-adityanath/story-6Dj0t81MI27ntew3ijM2xI.html
26-05-2020||Lucknow||UP government releases 2,257 convicts on parole||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday released 2,257 convicts, lodged in different jails in Lucknow, on parole for eight weeks.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn March, the Supreme Court had directed decongesting of prisons in a bid to maintain social distancing amid the coronavirus outbreak.Earlier, the Maharashtra government announced that it would give temporary parole to 17,000 inmates out of 35,000 lodged in different jails.The decision was taken after over 150 inmates at Mumbai’s Arthur Road Jail were found to be Covid-19 positive earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-government-releases-2-257-convicts-on-parole/story-gyvFag6prAZSLm2LiD5btI.html
26-05-2020||Delhi||AIIMS sanitation supervisor dies due to Covid-19||A 58-year-old sanitation supervisor at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), who had tested positive for the novel coronavirus, has died, sources said.He was on ventilator and succumbed to the infection on Sunday around 7.30 pm. He was a permanent employee of AIIMS and was posted at the premier medical institute’s outdoor patient department, they said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Another corona warrior sacrifices his life in service of the country,” Dr Srinivas Rajkumar T, general secretary, AIIMS Resident Doctors’ Association, tweeted with the hashtag ‘IndiaFightsCovid19’.“AIIMS has lost its proud warrior. The virus is dangerous, very communicable and doesn’t spare anyone,” he said.Kuldeep Dhigan, general secretary, AIIMS SC/ST Employees’ Welfare Association, alleged that the supervisor had developed fever and mild respiratory discomfort following which he got himself examined at the AIIMS on May 16.“As his case did not fulfil the criteria for testing, he was not tested for Covid-19. He underwent routine blood tests, was counselled and briefed about the precautions to be taken and sent back home,” he alleged.Due to sudden worsening of symptoms, the supervisor was taken to the Emergency on May 19, Dhigan claimed. “He had breathing difficulties and was hospitalised. He was then tested for Covid-19 and the results came out to be positive,” he said.The sanitation supervisor was then shifted to the Trauma Centre, which has been converted into a dedicated Covid-19 hospital, he said.“All frontline workers like us who have high risk of exposure due to handling of hazardous biomedical waste during the cleaning process should be tested even at slightest suspicion,” Dhigan said.Srinivas remarked that the threshold for testing should be further lowered for individuals working in high risk locations like hospitals and those who may suffer inadvertent exposure to the virus despite taking adequate precautions like surveillance staff and police personnel.   “We are going to have a high level meeting with the director tomorrow discuss issues pertaining to the safety of healthcare workers at the institute,” he said.Last week, a mess worker at the AIIMS from RPC canteen succumbed to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aiims-sanitation-supervisor-dies-due-to-covid-19/story-AKxCXjNkpo6jdYPDkpaw4L.html
26-05-2020||Lucknow||UP records 8 more Covid-related deaths; 229 fresh cases take tally to 6,497||Eight more people have died of Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh, taking their number to 169 as 229 fresh coronavirus cases surfaced in the state on Monday, an official of the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) said.With this, the total number of confirmed cases in the state has reached 6,497, Vikasendu Agrawal, State Surveillance Officer, IDSP, said in a statement. “Of the eight deaths, two were reported from Meerut and one each from Basti, Sant Kabir Nagar, Pratapgarh, Gorakhpur, Bareilly and Etawah,” Agrawal said.Among the fresh cases, 19 were reported from Rampur, 16 each from Basti and Ballia, 13 each from Varanasi and Gorakhpur, and 10 cases were reported from Firozabad, he said.So far, 3,660 Covid-19 patients have been discharged from hospitals in the state, while the count of active cases stands at 2,668, the statement said.Of the 169 deaths reported in Uttar Pradesh, Agra leads the tally with 33 fatalities, followed by 22 in Meerut, 12 in Aligarh, 11 each in Kanpur Nagar and Moradabad, and eight in Firozabad, it added.Addressing a press briefing earlier in the day, Principal Secretary, Medical and Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said pool testing of 936 samples was undertaken.“With migrants returning to the state, the positive outcome in the pool testing has increased. Overall positive outcome has also gone up. Hence, we are insisting that the migrant labourers who have come should undertake 21-day home quarantine. This will help in curbing the spread of the infection in the society,” Prasad told reporters.The principal secretary also said air travellers arriving in the state would have to stay under home-quarantine for 14 days.“On the sixth day from their arrival, one can get themselves tested, and if they are negative for Covid-19, their home-quarantine will be ended,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/up-records-8-more-covid-related-deaths-229-fresh-cases-take-tally-to-6-497/story-KHNgIoq1cGtkqVHPb1ePxH.html
26-05-2020||Ranchi||Amid coronavirus lockdown, over 220 Jharkhand HC advocates get financial assistance||The Jharkhand High Court Advocates Association on Monday said it has reached out to at least 225 needy advocates by providing them with financial and other assistance since the coronavirus-induced lockdown began in March.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe association’s Treasurer, Dheeraj Kumar said that the needy lawyers, who applied for help, were given Rs 5,000 in cash, ration and medicines.“The association is making efforts to help any member in distress and some more applications have been received,” Kumar said in a statement.The association expressed gratitude to well-to-do advocates who contributions have made this possible, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/amid-coronavirus-lockdown-over-220-jharkhand-hc-advocates-get-financial-assistance/story-g00TUqqaogS0KppGn4AmcJ.html
26-05-2020||Delhi||Major fire incidents in Delhi; factory, 250 huts gutted||Two incidents of fire were reported in Delhi early on Tuesday. In the first incident in Keshavpuram, in North-West Delhi, a footwear manufacturing factory was gutted in the blaze.Fifteen fire engines were rushed to the spot to control, the blaze. More details are awaited from the area.The second incident was reported from Tughalakbad slum area. Nearly 250 huts were gutted in the blaze.There are no reports of any casualty or injury.“We received information of fire at around 1 am. No casualty has been reported so far,” said Rajendra Prasad Meena, DCP South-East district.A total of 28 fire tenders were rushed to the site and the blaze was brought under control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/fire-breaks-out-at-a-factory-in-delhi-s-keshavpuram-15-fire-engines-at-spot/story-gQUWbTag0AFayh7eb3GDkP.html
26-05-2020||City||Couple who returned from West Bengal test positive, yet no change in Ludhiana’s tally||After two-day respite, two fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Ludhiana on Monday evening. The infected patients are a couple-- a 37-year-old male and his 27- year-old wife.According to health department sources, the couple along with their 65-year-old mother and 24-year-old nephew had returned to Khanpur village in Dehlon from West Bengal recently in a car. When they reached the village, residents had raised an objection and informed the health department, following which, four of them were shifted to the quarantine centre. The mother and nephew have tested negative.It is learnt that the man’s father owns a house in Kolkata. The four of them had gone there in January and got stuck due to the lockdown.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the couple was quarantined at Government Meritorious School soon after their return on May 23. Their samples were collected, along with 121 others, on Sunday and sent for testing. The health department received the reported from Government Medical College, Patiala, on Monday evening. The results of 121 others have come out negative.Dr Bagga said that as both patients were from another state, it would not affect the district’s tally.7 DISCHARGED FROM KHANNA CIVIL HOSPITALAs many as seven patients were discharged from the isolation ward of Khanna civil hospital on Monday. Out of the seven, two patients were employees of a tyre factory from where several cases were detected. The employees had got infected after coming in contact with their 63- year- old purchase manager.Senior medical officer, Dr Rajinder Gulati informed that another patient, who is an accused caught in illicit liquor trade, had also tested negative twice in a row after remaining in the isolation ward for about four weeks.The remaining four are relatives of the tyre factory employees.After discharge, the patients will have to remain in home isolation at their residence for seven days and will also be visited by the Rapid Response Team (RRT) of their respective area everyday.Dr Gulati further said that a care giver of the patient at home will take hydroxychloroquine tablets as prophylaxis.Attendant of the patients were also counselled at the time of discharge and advised that the patient should strictly follow the home isolation advisory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/couple-who-returned-from-west-bengal-test-positive-yet-no-change-in-ludhiana-s-tally/story-WhHqThELxKpAv0BidyccMK.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||India hockey player Jasjit Kular feeding hundreds of stray dogs in Jalandhar||Every morning since March 25, a couple of days after the statewide curfew was clamped in Punjab, international hockey player Jasjit Singh Kular, who hails from Sansarpur village in Jalandhar, has started his day at 5am.It’s not to train, but to cook chicken soup and prepare a mix of soaked soya chunks and store-bought dog food to feed a large number of stray dogs on a stretch along the Grand Trunk road, 500 metres from his house. Under normal circumstances, these strays would find food from the leftovers at restaurants and highway dhabas, but the lockdown doomed them to stay hungry. Kular, who has three dogs of his own, knew about the Jalandhar-based Animal Protection Foundation that rescues stray dogs. When the lockdown was enforced, he got in touch with them to feed the strays.“Our foundation mainly focuses on treating animals. But we also started feeding stray dogs during the lockdown. While residents feed the animals in residential pockets, we focused on those near highways and commercial areas,” says Shrist Bakshi, 32, who started the foundation three years ago. Kular roped in five friends — an athlete, a musician, a photographer, an IT professional and a librarian — and joined the foundation’s efforts. Together, they feed around 500 dogs on 25-km road stretches in the city. In all, the foundation feeds a 1,000 strays with the help of 16 volunteers, including Kular and his friends.“Ten days ago, I started posting pictures on my Facebook account. This drew the attention of many people I know, and now they are also contributing,” says Kular, who made his India debut at the 2014 World Cup in the Netherlands.“It takes us around four hours in the morning (to complete the rounds). The six of us split up into three groups and daily cover around 25-30 km of road stretch,” says the 30-year-old.“We buy bags of soya chunks and dog food from the market. Our daily requirement is around 30kg. We prepare soup using 1kg chicken, but don't give the bones to the dogs as this causes fights between them. We also need around 150 chapattis and some packets of bread, which are provided by some households in my neighbourhood. We use disposable bowls for feeding the dogs,” says Kular .The foundation tied up with a local pet shop for the packaged dog food, which maintained its supply through the lockdown. “We put the dog food in a lot of water before starting our feeding routine, so that they can get water with the meals,” says Kular.  Having played 65 international matches, Kular last took the field for India during the 2018 World Hockey League. He now plays for Indian Railways in national championships. Sansarpur, the cradle of Indian hockey, has produced 14 Olympians, who have collectively won 15 Olympic medals. Five of them have also represented Kenya and Canada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/india-hockey-player-jasjit-kular-feeding-hundreds-of-stray-dogs-in-jalandhar/story-Cg2cnQ0Qu92QJjuIWYRBaP.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Balbir Singh Senior: A legend beyond borders||Balbir Singh Senior --- India’s iconic goal machine --- was a legend across the border too, inspiring a generation of hockey players in Pakistan.His stellar on-field skills and down-to earth-demeanour earned him the love and respect of even his rivals. “He was a great player and a greater human being. Even in Pakistan, he is considered a legend. As we both had Punjabi roots, we shared a special bond. So, whenever we met, we always used to converse in Punjabi,” recalls Pakistan’s triple Olympic medallist Motiullah Khan, who played against Balbir Singh in the 1956 Olympics, while taking to HT over phone.Motiullah, 83, who is settled in Bahawalpur in Punjab province, won two silver and gold for the Pakistan in the Olympics. Also read: Balbir Singh Senior, a man who never let India downTill Partition, Motiullah used to play football and it was only in 1949, he started wielding the hockey stick. “My first meeting with Balbir Senior was during the 1955 Bombay Gold Cup. I was playing for Afgan Hockey Club and we lost to Balbir’s side in the semi-final by 1-0. It was Balbir who snatched the win from us,” says Motiullah, who took help of his son Muteeb Ullah Khan to communicate, as he is having hearing issues.“Our next meeting was at the 1956 Melbourne Olympics. We lost the final to India 1-0. I still remember the game…Balbir and Leslie Claudius were superb and we all hold them in high regard,” adds Motiullah, who was part of the 1960 Olympics squad when Pakistan won its maiden gold.“A week ago, I came across news that Balbir Senior had been admitted to a hospital. I told my son to enquire about him and he posted couple of message on his Facebook page, but somehow I couldn’t get in touch with his family. His demise is a great loss to the hockey world,” he says. Another triple Olympic medallist from Pakistan, Abdul Rasheed Junior, reminisces: “My elder brother Abdul Hameed ‘Hameedi’ had played with him during the 1948, ’52 and ’56 Olympics. I got a chance to interact with the legend when he was the manager of the Indian team in the 1971 World Cup. He was a thorough gentleman and the players from both sides have so much to learn from him.”Batting for India-Pak hockey seriesMotiullah says sports and cultural exchanges should not be kept hostage to political relations. Strongly batting for India-Pakistan bilateral hockey series, he says sports can bring both the nations together. “It is sad that because of political differences, such a series seems to be distant dream in the near future. But nobody can stop both the sides from playing in the heaven. Now, Balbir must be joining his teammates to play a match against our side (Pakistan) and I am sure it would be a tough contest,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/balbir-singh-senior-a-legend-beyond-borders/story-J3EFXELA56QztDT5nlQ3GN.html
26-05-2020||City||Infectious diseases block inaugurated at Srinagar’s SKIMS||Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS) Soura on Monday further strengthened advanced patient care services with the inauguration of Infectious diseases block (IDB).The inauguration was done by advisor to L-G of Jammu & Kashmir, Baseer Ahmad Khan. It is the first centre of its kind in north India which is equipped with superlative quality facilities. The services that will be provided include 40-bed isolation ward, l5-bed high dependency isolation ward and intensive care unit (ICU).The centre will also have four-bedded RO and dialysis unit, independent portable x-ray, USG machine and ECG, lab facilities for haemogram coagulation studies arterial blood gas and electrolyte analysis, biochemistry etc.SKlMS director Dr AG Ahangar dedicated the IDB to the patient care, especially the engineering department, and other supportive management services for making this possible in short span of time against all odds. Ahangar expressed satisfaction about the safety measures taken at all levels to ensure protection of frontline health workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/infectious-diseases-block-inaugurated-at-srinagar-s-skims/story-TAgEe1BaA1lFaOh83iysUK.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Big rejig as 45 police officers transferred in Punjab||The Punjab government on Monday issued the transfer and posting orders of 45 police officers in the state. A government spokesperson said Gurpreet Singh Gill has been posted as DIG (law and order) in addition to DIG (CAD) and crime against women and children, and S Boopathi as AIG (special branch intelligence), Chandigarh. Kanwaldeep Singh has been posted as AIG (special branch intelligence), Chandigarh; D Sudarvizhi as DCP (detective), Jalandhar; Jatinder Singh Benipal as commandant 27th Battalion, PAP, Jalandhar; Sareen Kumar as AIG (PAP), Jalandhar; Ravjot Grewal as SP (rural), Mohali; Deepak as ADCP-1, Ludhiana; Ashwini Gotyal as ADCP (headquarters), Ludhiana and Ajinder Singh as SP (investigation), Rupnagar.Kuldeep Sharma has been transferred as ADCP-4, Ludhiana; Mohan Lal as SP (headquarters), Fazilka; Balwinder Singh Randhawa as SP (organised crime and narcotics), SBS Nagar; Gurpreet Singh as ADCP (industrial security), Ludhiana; Sartaj Singh Chahal as ADCP-1, Amritsar; Simrat Kaur as ADCP (headquarters), Amritsar; Harjit Singh as ADCP (special branch), Amritsar; Ravi Kumar as SP (headquarters), Jalandhar (Rural), in addition to cyber crime, Jalandhar Range; Ravinder Pal Singh as SP (organised crime and narcotics), Jalandhar (Rural) and Ankur Gupta as SP (headquarters), Rupnagar. The spokesperson said Jagjit Singh has been transferred as SP (security and operations), Rupnagar; Manwinderbir Singh as SP (headquarters), SBS Nagar; Balwinder Singh as assistant commandant, 4th IRB, Shahpur Kandi, Pathankot; Digvijay Kapil as SP (investigation), Mansa; Surinder Kumar as assistant commandant, 36th battalion, PAP, Bahadurgarh; Jagdeep Singh as SP (operations), Gurdaspur; Nirmaljit Singh as SP (organised crime and narcotics), Batala; Baljit Singh as assistant commandant, 1st CDO battalion, Bahadurgarh and Parminder Singh Bhandal as ADCP (traffic), Amritsar. Ashwani Kumar has been posted as ADCP-2, Jalandhar; Jaswant Kaur as assistant commandant, 9th battalion, PAP, Jalandhar; Gurmeet Singh as assistant commandant, 7th battalion, PAP, Jalandhar; Ajay Raj Singh as SP, Bathinda; Amarjit Singh Ghuman as zonal AIG (crime), Patiala; Amarpreet Singh Ghuman as AIG (excise and taxation), Patiala; Gurchain Singh as AIG, training Punjab, Chandigarh; Raminder Singh as SP (detective), Hoshiarpur; Dharmvir Singh as SP (investigation), Ferozepur; Harpreet Singh as ADCP (investigation), Jalandhar; Harvinder Singh as ADCP, Jalandhar; Jagjit Singh Saroya as ADCP (headquarters), Jalandhar; Mukesh Kumar as SP (organised crime), Khanna; Gurdeep Singh as SP, Moga, Rattan Singh Brar as SP (headquarters), Barnala and Surinderjit Kaur as SP (headquarters), Moga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/big-rejig-as-45-police-officers-transferred-in-punjab/story-wDcWyz1Zx5YGNyww0jburN.html
26-05-2020||City||Balachaur granthi’s death murder, not mishap, say SBS Nagar police||Two months after a granthi, Jasbir Singh, was found lying dead on the Balachaur-Rahon road with his scooter by his side, police have added murder charges to the First-Information Report (FIR), instead of treating it as an accident case. The police move comes after two of six accused in the murder case of former scribe, Sanpreet Mangat, of Rahon on May 10, confessed to killing the granthi with robbery as motive. SBS Nagar Crime Investigation Agency (CIA) in-charge inspector Dalbir Singh Sidhu had conducted the interrogation. The post-mortem report also points to the fact that the granthi was murdered. Initially, the police were treating Mangat’s death as accident too and registered a case under these sections at the Rahon police station. Murder charges were added and the accused arrested, following the post-mortem report that did not back police theory, and senior officers’ intervention. Sources said it was a major lapse on the part of the police to treat two murders as accidents first and to add these sections to the FIRs only later. In their defence, police officials claim that they had always feared something was amiss and thus they got a post-mortem conducted from a medical board.A police official claimed, on condition of anonymity, “In the granthi’s case that was reported on March 21, the investigation was delayed due to the imposition of the lockdown.” In both the deaths, the initial case was registered under Sections 279 (rash or negligent driving on a public way) and 304-A (death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/balachaur-granthi-s-death-murder-not-mishap-say-sbs-nagar-police/story-3eohOoUke3W9G3hD1SjMRI.html
26-05-2020||City||Former HP health director sent to jail after discharge from hospital||Former health services director Dr Ajay Gupta, who was arrested on graft charges recently, has been sent to the Kaithu sub-jail here, officials said on Monday.Gupta was arrested on May 20 by the state vigilance and anti-corruption bureau in connection with an audio clip wherein money was being demanded in lieu of some supply of sanitisers. However, due to low blood sugar and hypertension, he was admitted to Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital. He was discharged on Monday and taken to the prison subsequently.Meanwhile, the news of the alleged health department scam has reached the Prime Minister’s office after BJP leaders from the state sent a letter to the PMO in this regard.In the letter, the BJP leaders have defended chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, who currently holds the health portfolio.BJP spokesperson Randheer Sharma on Monday said the state government has a zero-tolerance policy against corruption and that the CM has taken immediate action in every graft case so far.Lashing out at Congress leaders for their recent statements questioning the CM’s intent, Sharma said the latter had ordered a vigilance inquiry as soon as the case of sanitiser supply reached the secretariat and prompt action was taken following the release of the alleged audio clip incriminating Gupta.He said Gupta was arrested and suspended immediately and investigation against him was ongoing. “Congress leaders should wait for the results. Anyone involved in this matter will not be spared by the state government no matter how influential they are,” the BJP spokesperson said.Accusing Congress of politicising the issue, Sharma said the whole state has been battling the Covid-19 pandemic for the last two months, but the opposition is making baseless statements to remain relevant and gain political advantage.BJP strongly condemns this low level politics by the opposition leaders, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-hp-health-director-sent-to-jail-after-discharge-from-hospital/story-578AyRUJiHfb6cafuUTcmJ.html
26-05-2020||City||Man killed over financial dispute in Malerkotla||A 25-year-old man was murdered reportedly over a financial dispute in Malerkotla, around 35km from Sangrur, on Monday. The victim and another man were attacked by three assailants with sharp-edged weapons in Jamalpur area.The deceased was identified as Mohammad Shamshad of Malerkotla. Police said both of them were rushed to the local government hospital, where Shamshad was declared brought dead, while the other victim, whose identity is unclear, is undergoing treatment. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sandeep Garg said Shamshad was killed over a money-related dispute. “We have launched a probe and registered a case under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC against the three accused at City-1 police station. The culprits have been identified and would soon be arrested,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-killed-over-financial-dispute-in-malerkotla/story-ULDM4cd5FyGNJ898jH0ICI.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Scorching heat sweeps Haryana, Punjab; Narnaul hottest at 45.8°C||Stifling heat gripped Punjab and its neighbouring Haryana where Narnaul was the hottest place in the two states registering a maximum temperature of 45.8°C, five notches above the normal.Among other places in Haryana, Hisar sizzled at 45°C, four notches above normal limits while Bhiwani recorded a high of 43.1°C. Karnal, too, braved intense heat at 43°C, up five notches against normal limits.In Punjab, Patiala recorded a high of 43.6°C, up by five degrees. Amritsar and Ludhiana too recorded above-normal maximums of 42.8°C and 43.1°C, respectively.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, also experienced a hot day at 42°C, four notches above normal limits.According to the MeT department forecast, heat wave conditions will continue to prevail for the next two days in Punjab and Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/scorching-heat-sweeps-haryana-punjab-narnaul-hottest-at-45-8-c/story-k2qSuaicidyPMswVmtVKyK.html
26-05-2020||Mumbai||Eid prayer services go online in Mumbai amid Covid-19 outbreak; youths help poor with essentials||Over the past few days, Muslim religious leaders and institutions had been urging community members to celebrate the festival of Eid-al-Fitr indoors, owing to the coronavirus outbreak. Eid-al-Fitr marks the last day of the month of Shawwal according to the Islamic calendar, which marks the end of the month-long dawn-to-sunset fasting of Ramzan.“The entire world, including our country, has been affected by Covid-19, with thousands of new cases coming up every day. We request you to follow the lockdown, stay indoors and not venture out for shopping,” said Maulana Mehmood Daryabadi, president, Ulema Council.On Monday, as the city celebrated Eid, the Raza Jama Masjid at Phool Gali in south Mumbai, to prevent gathering of devotees inside mosques, arranged for five prayer services online, which devotees accessed through their mobile phones.At other areas of the city, socio-religious and community groups helped needy members with essentials to make sheer kurma, a sweet dish made on Eid. A group of 15 friends from Mumbai Central distributed 1,100 kits, with each of them containing milk, sugar, sevaiyan (vermicelli) and dry fruits, among other things, to the poor at Byculla, Mazagaon, Tardeo and Dharavi.“By now, there are volunteers in the all slum areas, who get in touch with NGOs [non-governmental organisations] and groups, and inform them about the families who are in need of essentials. According to their list, we distributed the kits in these areas,” said Ovesh Heera, a member of the group.Although most members celebrated the festivities indoors, there were reports of lockdown violations in certain parts of Phydhonie and Null Bazaar, where residents alleged that huge crowds had gathered for Eid shopping to purchase clothes, food items and footwear, on Sunday night. The claims were dismissed by senior police officers from the area, who termed it ‘fake news’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/eid-prayer-services-go-online-in-mumbai-amid-covid-outbreak-youths-help-poor-with-essentials/story-5vYBgMclNYIVq6C24NPQBO.html
26-05-2020||City||Chandigarh airport takes wings again||After a gap of more than two months, Chandigarh international airport resumed its operations here on Monday with seven flights arriving and departing with 790 passengers.The operations at the airport were shut on March 24 when a nationwide lockdown was announced by the Prime Minister in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.Even though eight flights were scheduled for Monday, only seven took off as the Air India flight to Dharamsala was cancelled due to operational reasons. In total, 490 passengers arrived and 300 departed during the day.With 142 fliers, the first Indigo flight from Mumbai arrived at the airport at 11.30am and left for Mumbai at 12.10pm with just 38 passengers.The last Air India flight from Delhi arrived with 17 passengers at 8.30pm and departed with 10 at 9pm.Three Indigo, two Air India and one each of AirAsia and Vistara flights were operational on Monday, connecting Chandigarh to Mumbai, Delhi and Bangalore.Screening on arrival, departureThe passengers were screened on both arrival and departure. Even the Punjab health team randomly took swab samples of 133 persons who were natives of Punjab. Those who arrived were instructed to observe 14-day home quarantine.On the low turnout of passengers for departure, airport’s chief executive officer (CEO) Ajay Bhardwaj said, “All the passengers stuck in metro cities are coming back to their native places. The situation will improve every day.”Passengers from Mumbai landed at the airport in PPE coveralls, masks, gloves, and carrying sanitisers. The passengers wishing to depart were asked to come three hours before the flight.Deepak Kapoor, an artist working in Mumbai, who landed in Chandigarh, said, “We were screened three times at the Mumbai airport before boarding the plane, and again here at Chandigarh airport upon arrival. I was stuck in Mumbai for two months and I am happy to be back home. I am looking forward to being home-quarantined.”Priya from Bhatinda, who works in the private sector in Mumbai, said, “I was feeling homesick and wanted to come back home. I was missing my parents. At least now, I will be at home.”“The situation in Mumbai was not good and I felt that Himachal Pradesh is doing much better to control the Covid-19 situation. For the last two months, I was with my family in Mumbai. I am relieved to be back home,” said another flier, Mukesh Kumar, a native of Hamirpur in Himachal Pradesh, who arrived here with his family.Only Punjab residents being tested at airportDr Harmandeep Kaur Brar, nodal officer for Covid-19, Mohali, said, “Our teams are permanently stationed at the airport to screen all patients, while samples of only Punjab natives are being taken. After their registration, we are instructing them to undergo 14-day home quarantine. If any passenger shows symptoms, we will take them to the hospital for further testing.”Airport CEO Ajay Bhardwaj said SOPs have been formulated for the safety of the passengers and airport staff, which include social distancing and stringent thermal screening. “Passengers are requested to adhere to all the instructions and carry printed boarding passes,” he added.Residents of Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh and Haryana will be tested by the concerned district authorities while they observe home-quarantine.BOXNo thermal scanner at airportEven though on March 5 the then officiating deputy commissioner, Aashika Jain, had directed the health department to immediately buy thermal scanners worth ₹15 lakh, no equipment has been made available at the airport yet.Thermal cameras can scan large crowds and spot people with higher temperatures, thereby saving time. Once authorities identify the possibly infected persons, they can segregate them for further screening.In the absence of a thermal scanner, the department is scanning passengers with thermometers, which are proving to be a logistics nightmare.Mohali DC Girish Dayalan said, “There was an issue of funds for buying a thermal scanner, but now we have asked the industry to buy one under corporate social responsibility.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-airport-takes-wings-again/story-B5zn31TsSCrKlMs4vJoCxJ.html
26-05-2020||Mumbai||IISc experts to collect sound samples of Covid patients’ cough, breath||Over the next couple of months, researchers at the Bengaluru-based Indian Institute of Science (IISc) will collaborate with hospitals, nodal and district health centres across India to develop a database of sound samples — cough, breath, and voice — from Covid-19 patients as a first-line diagnostic tool.Last week, IISc received an in-principal nod from the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) to collect respiratory sound data by tying up with hospitals treating Covid-19 patients. Researchers said marrying this database, christened Coswara, with machine learning techniques and expertise from doctors treating respiratory illnesses could serve as a pre-screening mobile or web-based tool to help diagnose individuals potentially infected with the Sars-Cov2 virus that causes Covid-19. “Our data will be generated in an Indian context because voice and cough sounds are affected by various local conditions such as weather and pollution. Using data from an external world can therefore be problematic since our population data may not match algorithms developed to build the Covid-19 diagnostic tool. We would like to enrol hospitals and health centres in the five major cities with high infection rates,” said Sriram Ganapathy, assistant professor, department of electrical engineering, IISc, who is spearheading project Coswara. The institute’s work assumes importance with the World Health Organisation (WHO) and America’s Centre for Disease Control (CDC) having listed dry cough, difficulty in breathing, chest pain or pressure, and loss of speech or movement as key symptoms of Covid-19, which start showing between two to 14 days after exposure to the virus. A recent modelling study of data collected from a pool of 7,178 Covid-positive individuals validated the presence of these symptoms, and proposed a real-time prediction and tracking approach. The study was published in internationally peer-reviewed journal, Nature Medicine.At present, nasal or throat swab samples of symptomatic individuals are tested with reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method — considered a gold standard for Covid-19 diagnosis — and the results are available between two and 48 hours.“The limitations of the RT-PCR method, however, include violating physical distancing rules that can increase the chances of the spread of the infection in addition to it being time-consuming, expensive and the difficulties involved with large-scale deployment,” said Ganapathy. “There is a need for an alternate point-of-care diagnostic tool that can be widely deployed to supplement existing chemical testing capacities given the pandemic is expected to stay for a while.”The eight-member team has so far remotely collected respiratory sound samples (https://coswara.iisc.ac.in/) from 1,000 participants, including healthy individuals, those with respiratory infections and Covid-19 patients via worldwide crowd sourcing using a website application to establish proof of their concept.The sound data comprises nine categories: Breathing (shallow and deep); cough (shallow and heavy); three kinds of sustained vowel phonation; and counting 1 to 20 (normal and fast-paced). Analysis of data using signal processing and machine learning techniques will be followed by building a mathematical model to develop biomarkers for Covid-19 from sound samples. As a mobile or web-based application, the user can record her/his voice samples for analysis and this will be used to predict whether or not the sample is similar to a Covid-19 infection. Researchers said the final deployment would be subject to validation with clinical findings, and authorisation or approval from ICMR.In addition to IISc, at least three research groups at Carnegie Mellon in the United States of America, Cambridge University in the United Kingdom and École Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne in Switzerland are also working on similar Covid-19 pre-screening diagnostic tools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iisc-experts-to-collect-sound-samples-of-covid-patients-cough-breath/story-tNqZwkX15dnfEgs9fVRPJI.html
26-05-2020||City||Visually impaired sprinter’s workout video during lockdown, an inspiration for athletes||Restricted to home with no access to gym and stadium, 34-year-old visually impaired athlete Gurveer Singh Dehlon is trying to keep himself fit during lockdown with the help of his two children and wife.A video on the social media shows sprinter Gurveer running on the terrace towards his children, standing on two ends, hearing their voice.He is also seen performing squats while carrying his younger child on his shoulders and running up and down the stairs.The video is becoming a source of inspiration for other athletes as well.Gurveer said, “Many athletes are confined to their homes, so I released my workout video to motivate them. Unfortunately, I can’t see myself performing, but I am getting good response from other athletes.”The athlete said, “I am thankful to my coach Sanjeev Sharma, who is providing me daily workout plans and giving training through Whatsapp. As I am visually, my coach explains the right way of doing an exercise to my wife Kiranjeet Kaur and she helps me in performing it correctly.”He added his two sons — Jaskaran Singh, 11, and Ishveer Singh, 7, assist him and also exercise along with him in morning and evening hours.A national record holder in the 100m race, Gurveer was gearing up for the Paralympic Open National Athletic Championship before lockdown as the championship was scheduled to be held at Mysore on March 24 but, later, the championship was postponed due to the spread of coronavirus.Gurveer was to represent Punjab in 100m, 200m and 400m races in this championship. He said the next date of the championship has not been announced yet.Running on tracks for the past 21 years, Gurveer had bagged medals in several national-level competitions. “The national championship was not held in 2019. So, my last achievement was in the Paralympic National Athletic Championship held in March 2018 at Panchkula. In the championship, I had bagged a gold medal in the 400m race and a bronze in the 200m race,” he said, while adding that prior to this, there was another national championship organised by the National Federation of Blind at the Guru Nanak Stadium here in January 2018, in which he had won a gold medal in 100m and 200m races each and a silver medal in the 400m race.‘FRIEND MOTIVATED ME FOR ATHLETICS’Recalling his struggle, the sprinter said, “In 1999, I was studying at the vocational rehabilitation training centre, Haibowal, Ludhiana, when my friend Vivek Monga, who is also a visually impaired athlete, motivated me to take part in athletics. Once he tied my arm with his with a rope and started training me for an event that was to be held at Jalandhar in 1999. It was my first sports event, and I participated in the 100-metre sprint.”Gurveer’s passion for track events built up and, in 2000, he earned his first medal (bronze) in long jump at a national-level competition organised by the RD Educational and Charitable Trust in Chennai. He had set a national record in the 100m race in 2008 and in 2010, he was also felicitated with a state award.Gurveer, who is also working with the Ludhiana Central Cooperative Bank, is also thankful to his parents Ajit Singh and Baljit Kaur for being his moral support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/34-yr-old-blind-sprinter-s-workout-video-during-lockdown-an-inspiration-for-athletes/story-jG1hJQgKkGyRR8BXZH02OO.html
26-05-2020||City||Ludhiana restaurant owner held for hosting wedding function without permission||A restaurant owner in Ludhiana’s Shimlapuri area was arrested for hosting a wedding function without permission amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown on Sunday. The accused has been identified as Amarpal Singh of Shimlapuri. Shimlapuri station house officer (SHO), inspector Amandeep Singh Brar said that they received information that a wedding ceremony was taking place at a restaurant near Kwality Chowk. Police conducted a raid and found at least 50 guests at the restaurant.The SHO added that the restaurant had not availed permission from district administration before holding the function. A case under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-restaurant-owner-held-for-hosting-wedding-function-without-permission/story-jKhcoW80Zl2HOHrGNmLjOK.html
26-05-2020||City||ICMR team arrives in Ludhiana, to start survey today||A 14-member team from the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) has arrived in Ludhiana to assess the spread of Covid-19 and the impact of the virus on people’s immune system.Confirming the development, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said that the team, which is coming from Pathankot, is in city for two days.“Starting Tuesday, they will visit areas from where Covid-19 cases were reported and also those from where no case of the infection was reported,” he said while adding that the team will also assess if the community transmission process has started or not. Before visiting the city, the team had conducted surveys in Patiala, Jalandhar, Gurdaspur and Pathankot, said Dr Bagga.Sources said that the team has divided the districts into 10 zones. The team will also collect samples from these zones and analyse factors such as population density and NRIs and people from other states living in the area.The ICMR team will also visit rural areas to check the spread. The experts will meet patients who have won the battle against the virus.Department sources said that this team will take 400 random samples for two days in the district.Blood samples will be taken for the purpose of understanding the transmission of the virus and the extent of antibodies in people in the area. The team will also try to understand the immunity levels of different age groups.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said that senior medical officer (SMOs), medical officers(MOs), (ANMs) and Asha workers will also accompany the team to the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/icmr-team-arrives-in-ludhiana-to-start-survey-from-today/story-LcmhJEmOL4cP0mN8WFjcpN.html
26-05-2020||City||Jammu magistrate declares various areas of district as red zones||In view of the situation emerging due to Covid-19, Jammu district magistrate Sushma Chauhan on Monday declared various localities and villages of district Jammu as containment/ red zones.The DM has issued four separate orders for declaration of various areas as red zones.As per orders issued by Jammu DM, Kalyanpur and Channi Mawallian villages falling under Kana Chak Police Station has been declared as red zone.Besides, Municipal ward-48 of Gorkhanagar, falling under the Bahu Fort police station has also been declared as red zone. Besides, Simbal and Kharian village falling under Miran Sahib police station have also been declared as red zones. Ward number 52,53 and 54 of Trikuta Nagar have also declared as red zones.These declared areas shall be under strict lockdown and tight perimeter control, except for essential needs. However, for any medical emergency, individuals can contact 24X7 Control Room at 0191-2571616, 0191-2571912 and necessary facilitation shall be done.Any violation of these orders shall invite punitive action under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and other relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and the Disaster Management Act 2005.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jammu-magistrate-declares-various-areas-of-district-as-red-zones/story-nqoQqbh4N5BLyTVW4oTF4K.html
26-05-2020||City||10 digital X-ray machines to help Mumbai civic body detect virus in patients||Following in the footsteps of China, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has now decided to examine suspected and asymptomatic Covid patients using X-ray machines. Ten digital X-ray machines have been installed at various jumbo centres to help in the early diagnosis of patients, especially asymptomatic ones. Health experts have welcomed the development.Earlier this month, the civic body had installed an X-ray machine at the quarantine facility National Sports Club of India (NSCI) Dome in Worli, where 500 suspected patients are being screened for coronavirus every day. After receiving a positive response, the corporation has now decided to extend the facility at other jumbo quarantine centres such as the NESCO Exhibition Centre in Goregaon and the 1,000-bed facility at Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC). Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “World-wide, X-ray and CT scans have helped in identifying patients even without symptoms. If this procedure becomes fruitful, then we will install X-ray machines in Dharavi and other slum areas for screening.”Along with asymptomatic patients, X-ray machines can also help in identifying the presence of the virus in those patients whose swab tests have come negative but are carriers of the virus, said radiologists.The radiology screening of the lungs can also help in distinguishing the Sars-Cov-2 – the virus that causes Covid-19 and affects the lungs of patients – from other respiratory ailments.“As we can’t run swab tests on asymptomatic patients, this process can help us in identifying more Covid patients,” Dr Hemang Deshmukh, dean of King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital, Parel, said.Infectious diseases expert Dr Vikrant Shah said that China had adopted the policy for its patients. “This technology can also help in controlling the false positive reporting of cases. BMC should have taken the step earlier. Other than swab tests, a physician can identify a Covid patient through X-rays and oxygen saturation level. So, this diagnosis system will course help in identifying patients earlier,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-digital-x-ray-machines-to-help-mumbai-civic-body-detect-virus-in-patients/story-BbsfJPStZqn1trasZZDIbO.html
26-05-2020||City||Spike in deaths, cases with unknown history, major causes of concern for J&K govt||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Monday said that spike in deaths and cases with unknown history were the major causes of concern for it and therefore strict police is being enforced for red zones and containment areas.Addressing media here Monday evening, Principal Secretary Rohit Kansal, however, informed that with the testing rate of over 10,000 per million Jammu and Kashmir has now become number one in the country in testing.“The testing capacity in the UT has gone up from just about 100 tests a day in March to 8000 tests a day today. In the last one month alone it has gone up from 1800 tests a day to 8100 a day – an increase of 350 percent,” he said.He said that aggressive and sustained testing is the only effective weapon against the disease and the administration shall continue to pursue it effectively.On the efforts to of the administration in combating the situation arising out of Corona Virus and the COVID 19 pandemic for the last more than 8 weeks, Kansal said that the Government has taken a slew of measures on the health, economic and welfare fronts. “Jammu and Kashmir was probably one of the first states or UTs to take note of the emerging situation and initiate action and many of our interventions have not only been been fast but effective too.It may be recalled that the total number of COVID 19 cases in J&K is 1668, out of which 1374 are from Kashmir division and 294 are from Jammu division. The number of active cases is 836 of which 620 are in Kashmir Division and 216 are in Jammu division. As many as 809 recoveries which include young children and 23 unfortunate deaths have also been reported. A total of over 1.34 lakh persons have been enlisted for surveillance out of which over 72,000 have completed mandatory period of surveillance. 47 new Covid positive cases have been reported today, out of which 33 cases are from Jammu division and 14 cases are from Kashmir. As per the media bulletin of the health department, no recovery has been reported today.Kansal pointed out that while J&K had been able to achieve a low growth rate and a doubling rate of over 3 weeks, this should not become a cause of complacency. Reminding that effective lockdown, strong containment policy, aggressive testing and cooperation by the people of J&K has played a key role in containment of COVID 19, the spokesperson said that there is no room for any laxity. “What we now need is to understand that there are enough worrying factors in the situation. 15 deaths have been reported in last month alone. There is at least one district which has more than 200 active cases and at least one district with more than 150 active cases. There are at least 2 districts where the number of active cases per million are higher than 150. At least half of the districts have a doubling rate less than 14 days. At least 2 districts have seen a considerable increase in cases even when there are no returnees. In fact, there are many areas where the positivity rate of cases is much higher for local population than for returnees.” he said and added that a number of local, indigenous cases for which contact chains are not yet fully clear have also been reported which is a cause of concern.He said that over 90,000 stranded persons have already returned to J&K in the last 4 weeks alone, they include 66024 persons by road, 25400 by 30 Shramik special and COVID special Rajdhani trains and 652 persons by air. “J&K is the one state/UT which has smoothly completed more than 85% of its evacuation process. The government has consciously adopted a policy of testing 100% of all returnees. All the returnees are being tested, and as a result of the strategy the administration has been successful in tracing 481 positive cases so far.” By testing people at the entry point we are ensuring that positive cases are traced and isolated at the entry point itself, thereby avoiding any infections getting into the community”, he added.Emphasizing on the importance of economy and livelihoods, Kansal said that UT Government has issued SoPs for the reopening of markets, industry and trade. Similarly SOPs have been issued for returnees and passengers. “But as responsible citizens we need to realize that any complacency or letting down of the guard can cost us very dearly. In red zones and containment zones, there is a need to be vigilant otherwise all the efforts of the last 2 months will be wasted,” he cautioned.The spokesperson appealed people to stay at home and go out of their homes only if it is absolutely necessary and follow the advisories, wear a mask, and practice social distancing. “Remember, the virus is alive, it is active and it has given no relaxation. So, our self restraint and discipline must continue, he warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/spike-in-deaths-cases-with-unknown-history-major-causes-of-concern-for-j-k-govt/story-9L1xogtgHSd8jpE6h66iqM.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Day after liquor seizure from milk tanker, Chandigarh distillery put on notice||A day after the police found 440 boxes of illicit liquor hidden in a milk tanker, the excise and taxation department on Monday conducted an inspection of NV Distilleries and Breweries in Industrial Area, Phase 1, and issued a show-cause notice to the owner.The department claims to have found 65 more boxes of ‘Crazy Romeo’ whiskey without holograms during the raid.On Sunday, the police crime branch had laid a naka near the Poultry Farm chowk and seized a milk tanker carrying 440 boxes of illegal liquor of the same brand ‘Crazy Romeo’. Tanker driver 36-year-old Gaurav Khatri of Phase 5, Mohali, had said the liquor was being supplied to Gujarat.The bootleggers had written ‘milk not for sale’ on the vehicle to avoid suspicion. Examination revealed that the brand ‘Crazy Romeo’ is meant for sale in Chandigarh only.Taking cognizance of the matter, the excise department issued a show-cause notice to the owner of the distillery, asking them to explain why their licence should not be cancelled or suspended for violations of Section 18 of the Punjab Excise Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/day-after-liquor-seizure-from-milk-tanker-chandigarh-distillery-put-on-notice/story-7yxLLWZ6f5KzgyIjlNtBzN.html
26-05-2020||City||11 passengers arrive from Delhi as Sahnewal airport resumes operations||Sahnewal airport at Ludhiana resumed operations after a gap of two months on Monday with an Air India flight (9I-837) arriving here from Delhi around 2.35pm. The flight carried a total of 11 passengers, including one female child aged four.The return flight to Delhi ((9I-838) left from the airport at 3.20pm carrying just five passengers.According to Sahnewal airport director SK Sharan, 15 passengers had booked tickets for the flight from Delhi to Ludhiana but four did not take the flight for reasons not known to him.“As there were only a few passengers, social distancing was easily followed and the passengers were allotted seats at a distance from each other by the airline. Thermal checks were in place and all guidelines were followed,” he added.The passengers who arrived at Sahnewal airport, included residents of nearby towns of Doraha and Moga as well.One of the passengers, Dolly, said she had gone to Delhi in March to spend some time at her grandmother’s place. But since the lockdown was announced, she couldn’t return home to Ludhiana.From sanitising luggage to providing face shields to passengers, the airport as well as the airline staff was on its toes to ensure all government guidelines were followed. “The flight was very neat and clean and it was a pleasant experience. Social distancing was properly followed and we were also given a face shield by the airline as protection,” said Dolly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/11-passengers-arrive-from-delhi-as-sahnewal-airport-resumes-operations/story-3QPWNo6ks5WPtGt2zBI0lJ.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Sectors 38, 52 on the road to lose containment zone tag||Even as the UT administration struggles to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Bapu Dham Colony, two of the six containment zones in the city – Sectors 38 and 52 – are on their way to shake off the tag.The six containment zones in the city are Kacchi Colony in Dhanas, parts of Sector 30B, Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26, Sector- 38 EWS Colony, Sector 52 and Shastri Nagar in Manimajra. Significantly, while Bapu Dham Colony has become the epicentre of the pandemic in Chandigarh with 73% (202) of city’s total cases (275), the spread of disease in other five zones has been largely restricted, with only 33 cases (12%).The last positive Covid-19 case in Sector 38 was on April 29, and no new case has been reported in Sector 52 since April 30. At Shastri Nagar, Manimajra, the last positive case was on May 2, Kacchi Colony on May 5 and at Sector 30B, on May 7.As per the central government’s guidelines, a containment zone can be denotified only if no new case of Covid-19 is reported in the locality for 28 days since the last case tested negative.Sector 38 completes the 28-day period on May 26, and Sector 52 on May 27. For the other three areas, the expected timeline for denotification is May 30 for Shastri Nagar, June 4 for Sector 30B and June 8 for Kacchi Colony.“A final call on declaring these areas as non-containment zones will be taken soon after health authorities are consulted,” deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar said.There is no active case in four of the six zones – Sector 38, Sector 52, Shastri Nagar and Kacchi Colony, and these areas have so far reported only 11 cases in all against the 438 people tested there. While Bapu Dham Colony has 82 active cases, there is only one active case in Sector 30B.Of all the people tested in Chandigarh, only 36% are from the six containment zones, even though these areas account for 85% (235) of the total cases in the city.In the city’s first containment zone — a part of Sector 30B — which has nearly 590 households, only 113 people have been tested, of which 22 were found infected with coronavirus. This accounts for a 19.4% positivity rate, 2.9% less than Bapu Dham Colony where 202 of 905 (22.3%) people tested were found positive.Though the first case, that of a health worker, was reported in Bapu Dham Colony on April 24, which was followed by a consistent rise in cases, it was only on May 22 that the UT health department scaled up testing, and decided to test all residents living in the same building as the positive persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-sectors-38-52-on-the-road-to-lose-containment-zone-tag/story-orKstKDVuJKemS0CLtzKEP.html
26-05-2020||City||Ahead of monsoon, Chaura Bazaar retailers seek respite from water-logging woes||Chaura Bazaar retailers urged mayor Balkar Sandhu to get the old Talab Bazaar drain unclogged ahead of monsoon as it causes water-logging in the locality after rains every year. Sandhu and senior deputy mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra had visited Chaura Bazaar on Monday to participate in a Covid-19 awareness drive. They distributed masks among visitors and shopkeepers. They also apprised the traders of the importance of maintaining hygiene. State general secretary of Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal, Sunil Mehra, said, “An old drain which starts from Talab Bazaar and merges with Buddha Nullah moving through different parts of the old city, has been choked for years. Due to this, rainwater accumulates in most of the old city areas and shopkeepers suffer losses.”“We urged the municipal corporation (MC) to expedite the work of cleaning the sewer lines in the city so that residents do not suffer during monsoon,” he added.Mayor Balkar Sandhu said he directed the MC staff to speed up the work of cleaning the sewer lines. “The officials have also been directed to clean the Buddha Nullah ahead of monsoon so that the internal drains, which discharge waste in the Nullah, do not choke during monsoon,” said mayor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ahead-of-monsoon-chaura-bazaar-retailers-seek-respite-from-water-logging-woes/story-3q8MwWnQEMwJaSLrLGGlGP.html
26-05-2020||Mumbai||Heatwave: Weather bureau issues a ‘red alert’ till May 31 for Vidarbha in Maharashtra||The weather bureau issued a ‘red alert’ for heatwave conditions for the entire Vidarbha sub-division, with a specific ‘severe heatwave’ warning for Akola, Nagpur, Chandrapur and Gondia districts in Maharashtra for the next three days. On Monday, Akola recorded its highest day temperature of the season at 47.4 degrees Celsius, 5.5 degrees above normal, while Nagpur, which was the second hottest location in India on Saturday and Sunday, recorded 47 degrees Celsius, 4 degrees above normal. Churu in Rajasthan was the hottest at 47.5 degrees Celsius. “No relief can be expected from hot weather for Vidarbha region till May 31,” said ML Sahu, deputy director general of meteorology, India Meteorological Department (Nagpur). “Hot and dry northwesterly winds from Gujarat and Rajasthan region continue to flow over this region, raising temperatures, and till there are pre-monsoon showers or wind pattern changes, the present scenario will continue.”IMD issues colour coded warnings based on the intensity of weather events in a particular region, ascending from ‘green’ (no warning), ‘yellow’ (be updated), ‘orange’ (be prepared), and ‘red’ (take action). A ‘red alert’ warning directs citizens to take “extreme care needed for vulnerable people”, while the health impact statement read, “Very high likelihood of developing heat illnesses and heat stroke to all ages”.Of the 11 districts in Vidarbha, the ‘red alert’ has been issued for four, ‘orange alert’ for three (Wardha, Yavatmal and Amravati), and ‘yellow alert’ for the remaining districts (Buldhana, Washim, Gadchiroli, and Bhramapuri). Meanwhile, a ‘yellow alert’ has been issued for other parts of Maharashtra, including Jalgaon, Nashik, Ahmednagar and Solapur till Wednesday, while Parbhani, Beed, Hingoli and Nanded are likely to witness heatwave conditions in isolated pockets till Wednesday, said IMD.The Konkan region, which includes Mumbai, witnessed normal temperatures on Monday. The day temperature at the Santacruz weather observatory was 33.7 degrees Celsius, close to the normal-mark, while Colaba recorded 34.2 degrees Celsius, a degree above normal. Moisture levels were high, with Colaba and Santacruz recording 89% and 77%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/heatwave-weather-bureau-issues-a-red-alert-till-may-31-for-vidarbha-in-maharashtra/story-EyswI93xYjgUDOU2jZ7VWI.html
26-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Covid-19 death toll crosses 1,000; 2,436 fresh cases in Maharashtra||Maharashtra on Monday recorded 2,436 new Covid-19 cases, taking its tally to 52,667. The state witnessed 60 fatalities, pushing up the toll to 1,695. With 38 of these recorded in Mumbai, the city crossed the 1,000 death-mark. While Mumbai’s Covid-19 toll rose to 1,026, the number of cases in Mumbai increased by 1,430 to 31,972. In other parts of the state, Pune recorded 244 fresh cases, while Thane 149 new cases on Monday, taking their virus count up to 5,319 and 2,739 respectively.Maharashtra, which is the worst-hit state in the country, has witnessed a surge in Covid-19 cases, with more than 20,000 infections reported over the past nine days alone. The state government is expecting cases to rise further in the next fortnight, especially in Mumbai and Pune, said state health department officials, adding that the government has already started strengthening its health infrastructure and adding new beds. Mumbai, which accounts for 60% of Maharashtra’s coronavirus cases, has been staring at a shortage of hospital beds and intensive care unit (ICU) facilities.The Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) on Monday outlined the plan to increase beds in Mumbai by creating “jumbo facilities”. The CMO said a centralised dashboard has been created to track the availability of beds and its location in real-time. With increased capacity and real-time tracking of beds, patients will not have to spend crucial hours waiting for availability of beds.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in his address to the state on Sunday, said the government is anticipating a spike in cases by month-end. As a part of their preparations for the surge in Mumbai, a field hospital at Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) with 1,000 beds, including 200 ICU beds, has been readied in a fortnight. Additionally, a Covid Care Centre (CCC) with 600 beds at Mahalaxmi Racecourse, which will have 125 ICU beds, is being erected for patients with mild infections. Nesco Exhibition Centre in Goregaon will have 535 beds.“In the next two weeks, Dedicated Covid Hospital Centre (DCHC) and Dedicated Covid Hospital (DCH) collectively with 7,000 beds will come up at Dahisar, Mulund, Mahalaxmi Racecourse, and Goregaon,” a note from the CMO said. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is acquiring hospitals with 100 beds and 20 ICUs in each ward to tackle the rise in cases. Similarly, hospitals are being acquired in Thane city. Thane guardian minister Eknath Shinde has asked to augment bed capacity at the Thane district hospital too. As many as 150 beds will be added at the hospital.Meanwhile, according to the state health department, of the 60 deaths recorded on Monday, 54 were in the past 48 hours, while the remaining six are from last week. The fatalities are of 42 men and 18 women. Twenty-seven of those who succumbed to the infection were over 60 years, while 29 were in the 40 to 59 age group, and three were under 40 years. According to the health department, 78%, or 47 patients, had high-risk co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, and heart disease, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-covid-19-death-toll-crosses-1-000-2-436-fresh-cases-in-maharashtra/story-qB6eR0myciCIliNMDa7diN.html
26-05-2020||Mumbai||47 flights operate to and from Mumbai amid cancellations, chaos over rules||After almost two months, commercial flight operations began in Mumbai on Monday morning, with the departure and arrival of 47 flights at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA). The first flight left for Patna at 6.45am, while a flight from Lucknow was the first arrival at 8.20am. Both the flights were operated by IndiGo. Mumbai airport, which used to handle 950 flights daily, has been shut from March 25, except for evacuation and Covid-related cargo operations. Of the 47 flights, eleven flights were operated to and from Delhi. The rest were either to/from or both to Kochi, Hyderabad, Varanasi, Bangalore, Patna, Calicut, Diu, Lucknow, Nagpur, Chandigarh, Gorakhpur, Allahabad and Jaipur. A total of 4,852 passengers (3,752 departing passengers and 1,100 arriving passengers) were flown to and from the airport on Monday. The highest passenger load was seen on the departure to Delhi route. Senior airport officials said the airport also handled a few non-scheduled flights, Vande Bharat and cargo flights, taking the total number of flights operated to 84. However, there was confusion owing to last-minute changes in flight schedules, as a result of differences between the Centre and state governments. The restrictions on the number of flights placed by some states also led to cancellation of scheduled services.Sudhanshu Pandey, who was on an official trip to Mumbai and was stuck for two months, booked a seat on an 8am flight to Delhi. “It was only at 6.30am when I entered the check-in area that I learnt that the flight was cancelled. I had booked three cabs in advance so I don’t face issues while travelling to the airport. This is the second time that my air ticket money is blocked.” Sources confirmed that the airport will run 44 flights on Tuesday and 50 on Wednesday.Jammu resident Prashant Sharma, who has been stuck in Mumbai after an event in March, said, “I want to leave Mumbai as I am facing issues with my accommodation. Although I am currently staying at a friend’s home, the housing society members had made it clear to me that I won’t be given entry on the society premises if the flight is cancelled. I have not received payment for the event and have lost ₹12,000 only in booking my tickets.”Flier Devendra Nath Tripathi tweeted, ‘We are at the Mumbai Airport for AI-809 and have no confirmation for the flight. Air India online status shows flight on time.. ground reality is grim.. no cabs to return.. no water despite boarding pass. Terrible management by #AirIndia.”Ashwini Pandey, a banker and a resident of Chennai, had purchased tickets of four airlines to reach Mumbai, but all the four flights were cancelled. “I have to join work urgently on June 10. Only if I reach Mumbai now, can I join my new office after finishing my quarantine period. Two flights got cancelled today and two flights that were scheduled on Tuesday too have been cancelled”Rishi Goel, a Shimla resident who works in Mumbai, said he wanted to return as his wife delivered during the lockdown. Goel could board his Chandigarh-bound flight, but termed the experience troublesome. He said, “My airline first messaged me that my flight was cancelled and then sent an updated message that my flight was on time. Their website however continued to show my flight to be cancelled. It was only at 3am that the airline website was updated with my flight status and I could take off at 9am.”It was however a happy day for Mohammad Ansari who could reach Allahabad to celebrate Eid. “I had enquired about my flight status a day before departure. As the flight was on time, I reached the airport and took off on time.”“Resumption of flights from May 25 has caused a lot of chaos. The problem for passengers began with individual states rolling out their guidelines relating to the operations of airports and post-travel quarantine rules. Only a fraction of flights from some of the busiest airports resulted in a spike in cancellations with a majority of travellers uncertain,” said Nishant Pitti, co- founder, easemytrip.com“All arriving passengers will be stamped on their left hand for identification and will have to undergo compulsory home isolation for seven days as per the protocol by the municipal corporation. Passengers who are coming in for a short duration and have planned a return or onward journey will have to share the details and will be exempted from isolation. Furthermore, the airport has created temporary isolation centres in case any passenger shows symptoms of the virus during the screening,” said an MIAL spokesperson.Maharashtra government issues guidelines 14-day self-isolation is mandatory on arrival in the state. Domestic travellers arriving in Mumbai will have to isolate themselves at home after being stamped at the airport, while those leaving the state in seven days have been exempted from isolation, but can’t enter containment zones. Travellers will have to submit a self-declaration at the airport on arrival, stating that he/she will not be staying in containment zone and was not under quarantine. He/she will also have to declare that he/she has no fever and will be liable for penal action for travelling without meeting the eligibility criteria. Passengers moving outside red zones to take domestic flights will have to take prior permission which will be given for specific reasons only. For international travellers arriving in the state, the first seven-day quarantine will be at a hotel with the expenses to be borne by the passenger. The next 7-day isolation will be at his/her home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/47-flights-operate-to-and-from-mumbai-amid-cancellations-chaos-over-rules/story-mme9Ewog8Rir18rE7G8XOI.html
26-05-2020||City||Police reshuffle: 3 Ludhiana officials transferred||In the latest reshuffle of cops, three additional deputy commissioner of police-level officials were transferred on Monday.According to the orders, ADCP (headquarters) Deepak Pareek has been appointed as ADCP (city-1) Ludhiana.He has replaced Gurpreet Singh Sikand, who has been appointed as the ADCP (industrial security) of Ludhiana against a vacant post. Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Ashwani Gotyal, who was the assistant superintendent of police (ASP), Mohali, has been appointed as ADCP (headquarters), Ludhiana, while ADCP (city-4) Ajinder Singh has been appointed as the superintendent of police (investigation), Rupnagar. He has been replaced by Kuldeep Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-reshuffle-3-ludhiana-officials-transferred/story-P2IQdPtYbHVRWVBeXZ2RrI.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Depressed when isolated? PGIMER psychiatrists to study impact of Covid-19 on mental health||What’s the first reaction of a patient who is told that he or she has contracted Covid-19? How tough can quarantining be? To answer these questions, psychiatrists at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research are planning to study the impact of the disease on the mental health of patients, it has been learnt.“We are planning to interact with all the patients recovering from Covid-19 and find out how it has impacted their mental health. We will be reaching out to them,” said Dr Sandeep Grover, of the hospital’s psychiatry department.“It does take a toll on you mentally. For me, the time in isolation was very traumatising,” says a patient who has recovered and does not wish to be named.Apart from the physical suffering, the social stigma attached causes more stress, says another patient who has been cured. “I cannot go for evening walks because my neighbours look at me in a certain way.”On the adverse impact of Covid-19, the World Health Organisation (WHO) mentions that “In public mental health terms, the main psychological impact (of Covid-19) to date is elevated rates of stress or anxiety. But as new measures and impacts are introduced – especially quarantine and its effects on many people’s usual activities, routines or livelihoods – levels of loneliness, depression, harmful alcohol and drug use, and self-harm or suicidal behaviour are also expected to rise.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/depressed-when-isolated-pgimer-psychiatrists-to-study-impact-of-covid-19-on-mental-health/story-XUbPFgFRl6JnhQCyRN3t7K.html
26-05-2020||City||Security forces bust underground hideout in Pulwama||Police has registered case against a senior government officer after an underground hideout was found at his shop in South Kashmir.Police said that on a credible input, a cordon and search operation was launched by Pulwama Police, 44 RR and CRPF 182/183 Bn at Bellow Dhargund in Pulwama district.“During the search in the area, the joint team busted a hideout in a shop belonging to one person identified as Nazir Ahmad Wani son of Abdul Ahad Wani resident of Bellow Dhargund. The joint team were able to recover incriminating materials including huge quantity of arms and ammunition from the hideout,” the spokesman said adding that during the course of investigations the officera learnt about Nazir’s involvement in providing logistic support to the terrorists.“He also revealed that he is a Govt employee and is presently posted as Naib Tehsildar in Tehsil Pulwama,” the spokesman said adding that case has been registered and investigations taken up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/security-forces-bust-underground-hideout-in-pulwama/story-dZ4HI9vNNXBdK1d4d9pJ9O.html
26-05-2020||City||Helpline calls: Intense anxiety grips cops, residents||The helpline, started by police to provide psychological help to police personnel in view of stretched duty hours due to the coronavirus outbreak, has been receiving peculiar queries.According to officers, not only the police personnel, but common people are also calling on the helpline numbers.Some of the callers said they are always under the fear of having developed coronavirus-like symptoms. Some are seeking advice stating they have even developed the fear of meeting people.Dr Nidhi Aggarwal, assistant professor at the Christian Medical College and Hospital, said she received a call from a woman, who said that her three-year-old daughter has been disturbed due to the fear of Covid-19.“The caller said that her daughter asked her repeatedly what will happen to her both parents die of coronavirus. The woman said they used to watch news most of the time on TV and her daughter has developed a fear,” said Dr Aggarwal.“I have advised the woman not to watch TV all the time, as she and her daughter are overloaded with negative information. A three-year-old child does not need to know about coronavirus and its effects. Watching negative all the time could bring negative thoughts in the mind,” she added.Dr Aggarwal said, “Police personnel ask her what chances are there of getting infected with Covid-19 as they are exposed to the public during duty hours. Some are more concerned about the health of their family members.”The residents, who are forced to stay home due to lockdown, have different problems. They said that they have developed the fear of getting infected if they go outside.Dr Aggarwal said due to lockdown, family members have developed deep bonds and they have come closer to each other, but some of them have different issues. They said they are living in small houses and are not finding personal space. They feel suffocated as they are not able to chat or call their friends as family members are around all the time.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP, headquarters) Akhil Chaudhary said the department had launched the helpline on May 11 to provide psychological help to police personnel over phone from 4pm to 6pm. They are receiving at least 20 calls daily from the police personnel for help.Chaudhary said, “The police personnel are working for more than 12 to 15 hours daily. Besides investigating cases, they are maintaining law and order in the city. They are also distributing food and ration among the needy and helping the health department in taking corona patients to hospitals. They are engaged in streamlining the process of sending migrant labourers to their native places also. Stretched duty hours due to coronavirus outbreak and stress of extended working hours due to curfew are taking a toll on their mental and physical health.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/helpline-calls-fear-psychosis-grips-police-personnel-residents/story-4840D2g6f3DCUVTXFeucCO.html
26-05-2020||City||Ludhiana industry body seeks 1.5-year relief to end under-construction projects||As the industry has taken a hit amid the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown, the Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) on Monday has urged Punjab industries and commerce minister Sham Sundar Arora to extend the deadlines to end under-construction projects and to submit building plans.The industrialists rued that large number of firms had planned expansion of businesses, but could not do so because of economic constraints.They sought a 1.5-year extension in the deadline for submission of plans (June 30, 2019, to December 31, 2020).They also demanded an extension in the last date to commence construction and business against the plots allotted by Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC) in focal point areas from September 30, 2019, to March 31, 2021, and September 30, 2020, to March 31, 2022.Gurmeet Singh Kular, president of FICO, and Rajeev Jain, general secretary, said, “We are aware that due to the pandemic-induced lockdowns, the industry has been reeling under losses and is not in a position to spend on construction and commence production in new units. Also, it will take some time to revive. Hence, we have urged the government to extend the deadlines.”Kular said, “Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has provided relief to real estate sector with a six-month extension in the permissible period of construction. But no relief has been provided to industry.”“If any industrialist fails to complete construction within the deadline, 10% no construction charges are imposed by the government and the allotment is cancelled on non-payment of charges,” said Kular.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-industry-body-seeks-1-5-year-relief-to-end-under-construction-projects/story-5vekYqjmUttKatEBtafx6K.html
26-05-2020||City||27 govt schools, colleges in Ludhiana to get solar power: Punjab minister||Punjab food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Monday said that solar panels will be installed in 25 government schools and two government colleges under the Ludhiana Smart City Project. He said these schools and colleges will be fully powered by solar energy which will not only help save money, but will also contribute towards sustainable development.The cabinet minister visited Government Senior Secondary Smart School, Punjab Agricultural University, and ongoing projects of Sidhwan Canal Waterfront Project and Leisure Valley in BRS Nagar along with mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, Ludhiana Improvement Trust chairman Raman Balasubramaniam, Ludhiana (west) sub-divisional magistrate Amrinder Singh Malhi, district education officer Swaranjit Kaur.He said the installation of solar panels at Government Senior Secondary School in Haibowal Kalan had started on Monday. He said the total cost of the project was around Rs 4.3 crore and 803 KW of energy will be produced when the project was completed. He said the solar plants will produce 10.5 lakh electricity units each year saving around Rs 62 lakh. Ashu said the solar panels will have a life of 25 years and the installation cost will be recovered in 5 years.While supervising the ongoing work at the Leisure Valley opposite to DAV Public School in BRS Nagar and Sidhwan Canal Waterfront Project, the minister issued necessary instructions to the officials.He said the Sidhwan Canal Waterfront Project envisages development of the stretch along the Sidhwan canal, from Pakhowal Road till Ludhiana MC Zone D office near Ferozepur Road, as an open public space for residents.The total cost of this project is Rs 4.75crore. The total length of the stretch is approximately 1,100 metres and the width is around 20-22 metres. In the second phase, the stretch from Pakhowal Road to Dugri Road will be developed.He said four Leisure Valleys were being developed in Ludhiana (west) constituency for people to enjoy greenery and maintain fitness. He said near DAV Public School, the Leisure Valley will be around 1.5 km in length (from opposite DAV Public School till railway crossing near Pakhowal Road) and will cost around Rs 3crore. He said the area near DAV Public School was being used as a garbage dump, but the plot will soon be transformed into a green belt.The MC had also constructed rainwater recharging well there, he added.The project near DAV Public School was designed by former students of the horticulture department of Punjab Agricultural University and will have features, including modern infrastructure, badminton courts, benches, canopies, imported grass, plants and lighting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/27-govt-schools-colleges-in-ludhiana-to-get-solar-power-punjab-minister/story-HQVt4HclnPMw5Y05qHXkuM.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Consumer forum directs store to pay Chandigarh man ₹9,000 for selling defunct mobile phone||The district consumer disputes redressal forum has directed a mobile store and two others to pay ₹9,000 to a city resident for selling him a defunct mobile phone.Ravi Inder Pal Singh of Sector 22-C, Chandigarh, filed a case against Micromax Informatics Limited, corporate office, Gurugram, and two other stores in Chandigarh.Ravi alleged that he bought a Micromax C1 Canvas mobile phone in June 2018 for ₹5,800 from Anmol Watches & Electronics (P) Ltd, Sector 22-B. It came with a one-year warranty period, but after a few months, the phone became inoperative.He said as instructed by the storekeeper, he gave it to the authorised dealers M/s Luxmi Communications, Sector 35, Chandigarh, for repairs.After a month, the phone was handed over to him with “assurance that all the defects in the mobile phone have been rectified”, but within a few days, it again became defunct.Ravi said in his complaint that he had to bear the expenses of the faulty parts. Alleging the acts amounted to deficiency in service and unfair trade practice, Ravi filed the complaint.As no one appeared from the side of the opposition parties, the case proceeded against ex parte. The consumer forum directed the opposition parties to refund ₹5,800, the price of the mobile phone, along with ₹2,100 as compensation for mental agony and physical harassment and ₹1,100 litigation costs.The defaulting parties have been asked to comply with the order within 30 days from the date of receipt of the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/consumer-forum-directs-store-to-pay-chandigarh-man-9-000-for-selling-defunct-mobile-phone/story-5P8Nn7SCtxFCGCjoYE31ZI.html
26-05-2020||City||35-year-old labourer found murdered at Baddowal railway station in Ludhiana||A 35-year-old labourer was killed by unidentified persons at the Baddowal railway station here on Monday. A team of Government Railway Police (GRP) recovered the body of the deceased from near the boundary wall of the station premises.According to the police, the accused had hit the face of the victim, identified as Ramesh alias Mottu, with a stone multiple times. The blood-stained stone was lying near the body when the police reached the spot. The reason behind the crime is not yet ascertained.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Sukhdev Singh, investigating officer, said the victim was a daily wage labourer at a goods shed here and used to load and unload trucks.“The deceased was identified by some of his co-workers and it is learnt that he belongs to Bihar, but we are trying to trace his family and the area where he was residing here,” said the ASI.The body has been sent to the civil hospital for postmortem and a case under Sections 302 (murder), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the GRP station here against unidentified persons.Police are questioning the victim’s co-workers to gather clues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/35-year-old-labourer-found-murdered-at-baddowal-railway-station/story-86s79WZ0kQAGLf0NEHzFdN.html
26-05-2020||City||Ludhiana teachers, students display creativity on edu dept’s Facebook page||In a bid to provide an online platform for students and teachers to display their creative work, Punjab’s education department came up with a Facebook page called activities school education Punjab.The Ludhiana district education officials asked the school principals to upload videos and pictures of various activities at their institutions. Many schools across the district have uploaded pictures of smart classes, language classes, computer laboratories and interactive activities held during summer camps.The authorities of Government Primary School, Dhalian in Ludhiana, have shared the pictures of their school, which were appreciated by the education secretary on Monday. The school’s head teacher, Sukhwinder Singh, and his team made efforts to give a facelift to the school building and beautify its corridors and classrooms.Manraj Singh, a student of a government primary school, shared a two-minute video wherein he made an earthen house with the help of his grandmother. He also explained the procedure to make earthen structures in the video. The education department lauded the effort made by the student.Also, heads of various government schools highlighted the facelift of their schools and shared videos of parents expressing their views shifting their children to government schools.School education secretary Krishan Kumar said, “This is a platform for teachers and school heads to display their talent through videos and pictures so other teachers can incorporate those activities in their schools.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-teachers-students-display-creativity-on-edu-dept-s-facebook-page/story-vi4d10xBdOwB7SGw21FQ9N.html
26-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police nab man who escaped custody, travelled 1,100km to Capital||Delhi Police have arrested a 33-year-old man for allegedly escaping from police custody in Nagpur and then hitch-hiking his way across the country -- all to meet his wife.Police said the escaped prisoner, Ceejo Chandaran, had not met his wife since he left Delhi in 2012.Chandaran was in under custody for cases of kidnapping for ransom, attempt to murder, robbery and under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act.Nine days ago, he escaped from Maharashtra Police’s custody while being taken to a hospital in Nagpur and travelled 1,110 km to the Capital. Delhi Police caught him at the house of his in-laws in south Delhi’s Dakshinpuri.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said that in October 2018, Chandaran, along with his four associates, kidnapped a Nagpur-based builder’s son and demanded ~1 crore for his safe release.“The local police, however, arrested the kidnappers and safely rescued the boy. They also charged them under Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA). On May 16, Chandaran escaped from the police custody while being taken to a hospital in Nagpur for treatment,” said DCP Thakur.He travelled to Delhi to meet his wife, Thakur added. Also read: Self-styled godman booked for organising congregation at Delhi templeThe DCP said that the Neb Sarai police learnt about the presence of the escaped prisoner at his in-laws home and caught him. During the interrogation, Thakur said, Chandaran disclosed that he originally belonged to Kerala but shifted to Delhi with his family in the late 80s. In 2012, he went to Nagpur for work and met a woman. “He attempted to kill the woman over some issue. She survived and Chandaran was arrested. In jail, Chandaran came closer to some criminals. After coming out of the jail, they committed some crimes in Nagpur, Andhra Pradesh, and Madhya Pradesh,” the DCP said, adding that Nagpur police was informed about Chandaran’s arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-nab-man-who-escaped-custody-travelled-1-100km-to-capital/story-89YtnqU0ITSOGpuCzbf9qK.html
26-05-2020||City||Ludhiana MC to deploy poclain excavators for cleaning Buddha Nullah||With silt accumulating in the Buddha Nullah, the municipal corporation (MC) has finally decided to deploy poclain excavators for desilting it before the onset of monsoon.The process is expected to commence from Tuesday with a deadline to clean the nullah by June 10. Keeping aside the estimate of the irrigation department of Rs 90 lakh for taking up the process, mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu has directed the MC officials to hire a private company for the job. As per information, two machines will be deployed at different points of the nullah at a cost of Rs 4.1 lakh per month. The MC would also bear the cost of fuel. The nullah is the main drain in the city and desilting is necessary as silt accumulated in the nullah reduces its capacity to carry the sewer waste and rainwater. In the past, the MC used to commence desilting in the beginning of April. But, this year, the fund-starved MC, rather than transferring lakhs to the irrigation department, has decided to take up the process by itself. Until now, JCB machines were deputed at the site but, due to their limited reach, the machines are not able to clean the nullah properly. Due to this, the mayor has asked MC officials to rope in a private player.The mayor said, “The Naamdhari sect had cleaned the nullah a few months ago and the MC has also deputed JCB machines to clear the nullah of the garbage and silt, but it has come to light that poclain machines are necessary at some points due to which I have asked the officials to rope in a private player. It does not make any sense to transfer Rs 90 lakh to the irrigation department to do the job. The nullah would be cleaned before monsoon hits the city so that residents do not face any trouble.” MC TO RECRUIT EXPERTS FOR RUNNING STPsWith MC officials not being able to oversee the working of three sewer treatment plants (STPs) in the city, Sandhu has decided to depute private experts at the plants on contractual basis. Sandhu said MC officials have to look into the complaints of the entire city due to which they are not able to oversee the working of the STPs, which are being run by private contractors. The MC officials said, “Around Rs 1.25 crore is spent for running the STPs every month and the mayor wants to reduce the cost of operations. Due to this, the mayor has decided to rope in the retired officials, who are experts in looking after the functioning of the STPs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-to-deploy-poclain-excavators-for-cleaning-buddha-nullah/story-4gMbqSV31EclItVKAe0HKL.html
26-05-2020||City||Eid: No big congregations at mosques, residents offer prayers at home||With no big congregations, coronavirus pandemic put a dampener on Eid ul-Fitr celebrations in the city on Monday.“Thousands of Muslims coming from different parts of the state used to offer prayers in and outside Jama Masjid, situated in Field Ganj here. It is for the first time in the past four decades that prayers were offered by just two dozen people in the mosque, but it is for the betterment of the mankind,” said Shahi Imaam Maulana Habib-ur Rehman Sani Ludhianvi. Most residents offered prayers at their homes with their loved ones, he added. Shahi Imaam said, “Celebrations were held by maintaining social distancing and exchanging bouquets in place of customary embrace. There are 72 mosques in the city, but big congregations were not organised at any place and residents offered prayers keeping social distancing in mind. The residents were urged to take care of the needy rather than purchasing spending money on new clothes for Eid.” A resident of the Subhani building area in the old city, Mohammad Shamim, said, “It was an unusual celebration on Monday as no big congregation was witnessed in any mosque in the city, especially at Jama Masjid. Only a limited number of residents were allowed to enter the mosques, but it was necessary keeping in view the Covid-19 threat. Earlier, a large number of residents used to offer prayers even on Field Ganj and Shahpur roads due to shortage of space inside Jama Masjid.” “Most people avoided shopping for new clothes and preferred to help the needy by arranging food for them,” said Shamim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/eid-no-big-congregations-at-mosques-residents-offer-prayers-at-home/story-SD9kHpUFmw3RMVAiGxa8VO.html
26-05-2020||Mumbai||57-yr-old Mumbai cop dies of Covid-19, 12th virus fatality in city police force||A 57-year-old traffic police constable from Mumbai Police succumbed to Covid-19 at BYL Nair Hospital on Monday. This is the 12th death in Mumbai Police and 19th in state police so far. The total number of cases of Covid-19 in Mumbai Police went up to 1, 052 till Monday evening from 1, 004 cases a day earlier. The deceased constable was posted with Byculla traffic training department. According to the police, he was admitted to the hospital on Saturday after he complained of high fever. He was tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday and succumbed to the disease on Monday around 2am. Pravin Padval additional commissioner of police (traffic) confirmed the development.“He was at home since April 28, as Mumbai police commissioner, Param Bir Singh had asked cops over 55 years of age and others above 50 years with health issues, to go on leave as a precautionary measure,” said a police officer. This is the third death in Mumbai Traffic Police due to Covid-19. 17 positive cases of Covid-19 in Oshiwara policeMeanwhile, five more policemen including an officer from Oshiwara police station tested positive for Covid-19 taking the total number of cases to 17. “A police sub inspector and four constables tested positive,” said a senior inspector. Out of 17 personnel, an assistant police inspector (API) has been recovered and discharged from the hospital, while remaining 16 are undergoing treatment. Four cops are quarantined, while six others who were earlier quarantined for 14 days, resumed duty. 1,809 Covid-19 positive in Maharashtra Police A total of 1,809 police personnel in Maharashtra Police tested positive for Covid-19 till Monday morning in which the maximum of 1,615 are constables and remaining 194 are officers. Out of the total 1,809 personnel, 678 have recovered and remaining 1,113 are under treatment. A total of 19 police personnel have died so far in which 12 are from Mumbai, two each from Pune and Solapur and one each from Nashik rural, Thane and Mumbai ATS. 105 booked, 80 held for lockdown violations on SundayA total of 105 people were booked and 80 were arrested in 26 FIRs in Mumbai, on Sunday for lockdown violations. A maximum of 14 FIRs were filed for gathering in one place and five each for not wearing masks and unnecessary use of vehicles, violating the lockdown orders. The rest FIRs were against shops operating despite being non-essential services and other violations. (With inputs by Jayprakash S Naidu)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/twelfth-death-in-mumbai-police-due-to-covid-19/story-VV4NjzwXIspN1n5rmqoQPI.html
26-05-2020||Mumbai||Centre-Maha tussle on special trains rages||The tussle between the Centre led by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Maharashtra government led by the Shiv Sena over the handling of the Covid-19 pandemic flared up on Sunday and Monday.Hours after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said the railway ministry is providing half the amount of trains required to ferry labourers back to their home states, Union railway minister Piyush Goyal tweeted back saying they were ready to send 125 trains, provided they do not run “empty” and also sought a list of passengers.This, in turn, led to a war of words between Goyal and Sena MP Sanjay Raut, with the latter saying the Centre needs to change its mindset about Maharashtra and see it as a state and not an Opposition government.In an address to the state on Sunday, the Maharashtra CM said he had demanded 80 Shramik trains per day to ferry migrants home, but got only around 40. Goyal then on Twitter asked Thackeray to send the list of passengers with their medical certificate, details such as boarding station, etc, in the next one hour. “Sadly, it has been 1.5 hours but Maharashtra Govt. has been unable to give required information about tomorrow’s planned 125 trains to GM of Central Railway. Planning takes time & we do not want train to stand empty at the stations, so it’s impossible to plan without full details.”The war of words continued on Monday with Goyal seeking the list. “Where is the list for 125 trains from Maharashtra? As of 2am, received list of only 46 trains of which 5 are to West Bengal and Odisha which cannot operate due to cyclone Amphan. We are notifying only 41 trains for today despite being prepared for 125!!!,” he tweeted.Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis also said, “A constant attempt is being made to blame the Centre for the state’s failures. The Centre is always willing to help.”Coming to the defence of Thackeray, Raut said that earlier trains have left Maharashtra without passenger list. “Many trains have left Maharashtra from Nagpur and Pune without any list. We have that list. If they come out of the mindset that Maharashtra has an opposition government and think of it as a state, the question of seeking lists won’t arise,” Raut told reporters in Mumbai.On Monday afternoon, Raut tweeted: “Piyush ji, what list was sought for Nagpur-Udhampur train that left on May 14, 20[20]. Please share what efforts have been taken to arrange trains first and then to gather passengers? Now which list are you seeking? Don’t forget that you represent Maharashtra in Rajya Sabha.”He further said, “The Maharashtra government has given a list to the railway ministry. There is only one request to Piyush Goyal ji, the trains should reach the destination. The train going to Gorakhpur should not reach Odisha instead.”Raut was referring to last week’s incident where hundreds of labourers travelling to Uttar Pradesh landed in Rourkela in Odisha. The railways later claimed it was a planned diversion on account of congestion.The Thackeray-led government had sought trains for migrants during the first phase of the lockdown and has consistently claimed the Centre’s delay in starting the trains led to migrants taking to roads to head back to their home states. There have also been claims and counter claims between the state and the Centre indirectly over footing the bill for the train journeys.Thackeray, in his address, made a veiled reference at it. “We are yet to get the money for the trains. It will come, but we are not waiting for it. We have footed the bill, so the migrant labourers can go back home,” said Thackeray.The war of words comes on the heels of the state BJP’s ‘Maharashtra Bachao’ protest against the Thackeray-led government for “failing to tackle the pandemic”. This had led to a social media tussle between the BJP and MVA allies last week, with the latter terming the Opposition as “Maharashtra Drohi”. The Sena had slammed the BJP for playing politics during a crisis, with Thackeray reiterating it during his live address on Sunday.On Monday, BJP MP Narayan Rane also met governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to call for President’s rule in Maharashtra over “the state government’s failure and breakdown of public health machinery”.Pawar meets Governor Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar called on Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari at Raj Bhavan on Monday morning. The meeting assumes significance in the backdrop of the strained relationship between ruling parties in the state and Raj Bhavan.Senior party leader and former Union minister Praful Patel, who was present at the meeting, said, “It was a courtesy meeting. No political issues were discussed,” he said.There have been frequent tiffs between the Governor and Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress in the past six months of the government and even during the formation of the government last year. Ruling parties expect a truce between them after the meeting between Koshyari and Pawar. On Saturday, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut called on the Governor and had a discussion for over 30 minutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-centre-train-tussle-continues/story-c9sZE76C5jT0y8f69r362N.html
26-05-2020||Delhi||BJP, AAP spar over Covid numbers, beds||The BJP on Monday alleged the Delhi government could add only 200-odd beds for Covid-19 treatment in the last one-and-a-half months, a claim rejected by the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). Referring to Arvind Kejriwal’s April 7 press conference, BJP MLA Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, leader of the opposition in the Assembly, said, “Kejriwal had then said there are 2,950 beds available when the number of cases was just 525. When the cases crossed 14,000, the government has 3,150 beds as per an affidavit submitted by it in the Delhi high court on May 20. Today, he said there are 4,500 beds available. The government is misleading people. The CM had said they have made arrangements for 30,000 beds in the capital. Where are those beds?”AAP rejected the allegations. A party spokesperson said, “The BJP’s allegations are totally false and baseless. Their figures are wrong. The Delhi government is prepared with a clear plan to tackle corona. We have one of the best recovery rates in the country. Delhi has approximately 7,000 active cases, as against 14,000 alleged by the BJP. More than 6,700 patients have fully recovered and gone home.”Referring to the alleged discrepancy in figures in the Delhi government bulletin, Bidhuri said, “The number of patients undergoing treatment at health care and quarantine facilities, including home quarantine, don’t add up. For instance, there are 7,006 active cases as on May 25, but just 6,289 patients in various government facilities and home quarantine. Where are the rest of the positive cases?”To this, the AAP’s spokesperson responded, “There is no discrepancy...all patients are accounted for. Before sending patients into home isolation, there is a process whereby our ground teams visit patients to ensure they have adequate facilities required for home isolation. This is an on-ground verification process. Only after physical verification, the patients are sent to home isolation, Covid Care Centre, etc.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-aap-spar-over-covid-numbers-beds/story-QdjZFOTq2awGrFYnhQhGrK.html
26-05-2020||Delhi||Essentials to be delivered to patients in home isolation||The Delhi government also issued an order on Monday directing district magistrate in all 11 revenue districts in the city to appoint a nodal officer to ensure that essential commodities, services and medicines are supplied at the doorstep of families, who are living in home quarantine.“It has been noticed that in many cases all members of a family are under home isolation and therefore might be facing difficulties in managing and receiving supply of essential commodities, services and medicines on time,” said the order, which HT has seen.The nodal officer, the government said, should be someone at least of sub-divisional magistrate rank, and shall be given dedicated mobile numbers, which is to be shared with people under home isolation by teams. The teams working on the ground will also make a database of such home quarantine cases, where all family members are in quarantine, in every sub-division which is to be updated in every 3-4 days, said the order that was issued by divisional commissioner Sanjeev Khirwar on Monday.The home isolated families would be allowed to call on the designated numbers and inform the surveillance officials about what essential commodities they need delivered. The nodal officer is supposed to check with each team head in every 3-4 days if the delivery process is in place, the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nodal-officers-for-people-under-home-quarantine/story-YvK70jWGXvIFdeiGHGM6rK.html
26-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi government issues guidelines for domestic travel||Delhi’s directorate general of health services on Monday issued guidelines for domestic travel via flights, buses or trains for passengers and the agencies concerned. As per the rules, passengers found with moderate or severe symptoms will be admitted to dedicated Covid health facilities and those found having mild symptoms will be given an option for home isolation or being admitted to a Covid Care Centre (government or private). All asymptomatic passengers will be advised 14-day home isolation, the order read. The guidelines also identified the agencies responsible for mandatory thermal screening and other medical checks at different public transport terminals.For passengers at the airports, checks will be the responsibility of the airport health officials (APHO), with Safdarjung hospital serving as the link hospital. For Maharana Pratap and Anand Vihar inter-state bus terminals, the Delhi transport department will be the agency concerned, with Aruna Asaf Ali hospital and Dr Hegdewar Arogya Sansthan serving as links. For the five railway stations, the Northern Railways will be responsible, with its own hospitals serving as links, besides two others. Masks or face covers for everyone is mandatory and agencies will have to frequently sanitise their premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-government-issues-guidelines-for-domestic-travel/story-cnjyCUwAqEkF9mjm5Ck1uM.html
26-05-2020||Delhi||82 cancellations spark chaos as Delhi airport comes back to life||Sunil Kujur, a retired government employee, was woken up by an early morning call informing of his father’s demise. Kujur, a resident of west Delhi’s Uttam Nagar, reserved two seats for himself and his daughter on an Air India flight to Ranchi. Just when they were about to leave home, they learnt the flight had been cancelled. “I had to take an afternoon flight. I was late for my father’s last rites,” Kujur said.Having a reservation in the same cancelled Air India flight was a government hospital doctor, whose father had died on Monday morning. He later another flight to Ranchi but said there was no intimation about the cancellation.“There was not a single message or mail informing me about the cancellation. All of us who reached the airport today are mostly travelling in emergencies. If the airlines cannot keep the schedule on time, they must at least keep their passengers posted. This is sheer mismanagement, “ said the doctor, who wished not to be named. Kujur and the doctors were among scores of passengers whose flights were cancelled due to a multitude of reasons as airlines resumed operations across India on Monday. Instead of following the national guidelines issued by the Centre for all passengers, many set their own rules: Karnataka requires mandatory institutional quarantine for passengers from worst-affected states, while Punjab and Meghalaya have made a swab test mandatory for arrivals.Three states — Maharashtra, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu — requested the Centre government to reconsider the decision to allow domestic flight operations as it could lead to a spike in infections.At the Delhi airport, at least 82 flights, both departures and arrivals, were cancelled.According to Air India, flight schedules had to be redrawn late last evening by all airlines due to last-minute decision on general flight operations to certain states, inconveniencing passengers of multiple airlines. “Air India is doing its best to extend all support to its esteemed pax, according topmost priority to all safety norms, and in sync with the flight movement and operational issues prevailing throughout its network,” said an airline spokesperson. Domestic flight operations has been shut completely on March 25 when the Prime Minister had announced a nationwide lockdown in order to contain the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. Monday was the first day when airports in the country resumed domestic services since the lockdown. All passengers were wearing face masks. Many were seen wearing face shields and gloves. A few were even spotted wearing full-body protective suits. Most people flying out of Delhi on Monday said they were travelling because of emergency.Anil Mahapatra, an advocate who practises at a sessions court in Delhi, said he was going to Bhubaneswar to meet his mother who has been unwell for the past month. “My wife, who used to stay with my mother, had come to meet me in March and got stuck here due to the lockdown. Despite my mother being unwell we couldn’t visit her. She is old,” Mahapatra said.The lawyer, who travelled to the airport from Gurugram, said cabs were easily available and there was no overpricing.A majority of the people who were left stranded because of the cancelled flights complained that the operators “cared little” to inform them of the changes.Seva Singh, who was in Bhiwani of Haryana and runs a transport business in Raipur, was to board a Vistara flight. “My brother dropped me at the airport. There wasn’t any problem crossing the Gurugram border, but about an hour later, I found out that my flight had been cancelled. If the airline had alerted us in advance, it would have saved us time and money,” Singh said.The Delhi airport operator and the airlines took to social media to connect with their fliers. “Due to restrictions implemented by various local authorities, flights have got cancelled today. Stay in touch with the airline concerned for updated flight info. Planned flight operations for today are as follows: Departure- 118 flights, Arrival- 125 flights,” DIAL (Delhi International Airport Ltd) tweeted on Monday. Vistara airlines also took to Twitter, posting, “#ImportantUpdate: Many Indian states have issued their respective state-wise protocols that all entering passengers must follow. We advise to follow these guidelines for travel.”A few passengers, who had landed in Delhi, and were planning to travel further, were stuck on Monday.Among them was Komal Jaswal, who was stuck in Delhi because her flight to Pathankot was cancelled. Jaswal said she planned to hire a taxi to reach Punjab, where her family has been waiting for her for the past two months. “I work at a private firm in Pune. I had booked an IndiGo flight from Pune to Pathankot but it was cancelled. I had to book another flight with SpiceJet to reach Delhi and from here, I plan to hire a cab. It is better to travel for six to seven hours in a cab and reach home instead of spending a day at the airport,” she said.A spokesperson for IndiGo said, “IndiGo operations ran smoothly and as of today afternoon, 85% of our flights have reached their final destination within 30 minutes of scheduled arrival time. There were no major delays or any other disruptions. Due to the change in state guidelines, affected passengers were provided flexibility to either re-book on alternative flights or transfer their complete booking amount into credit shells for future bookings.”“IndiGo is ensuring to provide courteous and hassle-free travel experience for its passengers by following additional measures — website updated with all state requirements and SOPs for travel, and multiple mock drills for the staff to facilitate the new guidelines for flying,” the spokesperson added.A yoga instructor, Anjali Rai, who travelled from Bangalore to Delhi in a Vistara flight, claimed passengers were not following social distancing norms. “Despite the government advertising so much and holding repetitive campaigns, people are still negligent,” said Rai, who travelled wearing gloves, a face shield and a face mask. Rai, who lives in Panipat, said she was waiting for her brother to pick her up, as cabs were charging higher prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/82-cancellations-spark-chaos-on-day-one-as-delhi-airport-comes-back-to-life/story-MH3SwhPtY5GGhjRbhhsDbL.html
26-05-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad seals border with Delhi again, cites rising coronavirus cases||The Ghaziabad district administration Monday issued directions once again restricting movement of commuters to Delhi and said commuters, other than those in the exempted categories, will be required to get passes if they wished to travel to Delhi. The officials said Monday’s direction was extension of May 18 lockdown guidelines issued by the Uttar Pradesh government.Under the May 18 directions of chief secretary RK Tiwari, commuters from Delhi, other than those from hot spot areas, were allowed to travel to NCR areas of Noida and Ghaziabad and the district administration was asked to issue detailed directions in this regard.“So the directions issued on Monday are in a continuation of that order. Restrictions have been imposed on movement at the Ghaziabad-Delhi border. There are certain category of persons like those involved in essential services, etc., who are allowed to cross the border. Others will have to apply for passes from the Ghaziabad district administration,” Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said.“People who have to reach private offices in Delhi for work will also have to apply for passes. A detailed order has been issued in this regard. The directions have been issued after a number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, which have emerged in Ghaziabad, were of people who got the infection after travelling to Delhi,” Pandey said.According to estimates of the district health department, about 55 to 60 cases of the total 217 cases, as on May 24, are of those who have acquired the Covid-19 infection after travelling to Delhi.“Initially, when the cases started coming in we had more incidences of infection acquired after people attended various religious congregations. Thereafter, a majority of cases pertained to a Noida-based company – Ceasefire. From mid-April till date, a majority cases pertain to people who travelled to Delhi for treatment and other reasons. Quite a few number of health care personnel working in Delhi hospitals, but living in Ghaziabad, also tested positive,” Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad, said.“As per our estimates, a majority of cases nowadays are related to infections acquired from Delhi. We have an estimated 60 such cases. So, it was vital that movement to Delhi is restricted,” Gupta said.In the orders issued on Monday, vehicles engaged in essential services are allowed to move without any restrictions while doctors, paramedical staff, police and bank employees will be asked to produce their identification cards. Likewise, media persons and lawyers can also cross the borders on production of ID cards.The order also states that commuters are advised to leave Ghaziabad maximum by 9am and return only after 6pm. Officials said those wanting to travel to Delhi can apply for passes at http://164.100.68.164/upepass2/“The persons coming from hotspot areas of Delhi will not be allowed entry to Ghaziabad. Likewise, no one will be allowed entry to any hotspot areas in Ghaziabad. Even, anyone residing in hotspot areas of Ghaziabad will be allowed to move out except for those involved in essential services,” the directions by the district magistrate, said.Both Ghaziabad and Delhi share borders near UP-Gate, Anand Vihar, Vivek Vihar, Seemapuri and Loni areas.Meanwhile, civil flights began operations from the Sikandarpur civil terminal near the Hindon airbase on Monday. The Airports Authority of India officials said the entire premises were sanitized and flight from Hubli landed on Monday evening with 30 passengers. Eighteen passengers boarded the same flight back to Hubli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-seals-border-with-delhi-again-cites-rising-coronavirus-cases/story-5zCxEn4fnsiTHlLpSm7dwI.html
26-05-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: All 20 jail cases traced to asymptomatic officers||A string of measures — ban on biweekly visits from family members, segregation of new inmates to an isolated jail for the first 14 days and holding court proceedings through video conference from within the prison — has not been able to prevent the Covid-19 virus from creeping in to all the three jail complexes of Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli in Delhi.Till Monday evening, the three jailcomplexes, which together house a total of 14,000 prisoners and around 1800 jail officers, had reported 20 positive cases among prisoners and jail officials. Senior prison officers said that contact tracing so far has revealed that in all the three jails, the virus reached the prison through jail officers, who did not show any symptoms.At least 17 families living in different flats at the Tihar residential complex, located behind Tihar jail, have been told to go in home-quarantine for 14 days. “In at least 17 flats, the officers are in self-isolation. Around 60 people in those flats are in home isolation. The officials in Tihar and Rohini jail, who were infected with the virus, were both residents of Tihar quarters. Only the Mandoli deputy superintendent, who tested positive on ??, lived somewhere else,” said a prison officer, who did not wish to be named.Prison officers also said that barring the case of the Mandoli jail officer, all 19 prisoners and jail officials were asymptomatic. The officials fear that many more inside the prison may be infected with the virus and have ordered all jail superintendents to ensure that both prisoners and jail officers follow social distancing norms strictly.“At Rohini jail, we came to know that a 29-year-old prisoner had been infected with the virus after he was rushed to a hospital for surgery. By the time we were informed by the hospital, 15 inmates and one head warder had already contracted the disease. All the 15 prisoners were behind bars since the lockdown. They had no interaction with anyone outside. The head warder lived in Sonipat, Haryana which is a (coronavirus) hotspot. Later, another assistant superintendent of Rohini jail, who too lived in the Tihar residential complex, tested positive. The Tihar official, who tested positive on Sunday, is also a resident of the same complex. All the infected prisoners have been behind bars since the lockdown. The transmission has happened through asymptomatic jail officers. This is a practical problem. We can do little about it, except advising them to ensure social distancing,” a second prison officer, who did not wish to be named, said.Until Monday afternoon, Delhi had reported 14,053 cases of Covid-19, and 276 deaths. At least 6,771 people had recovered and been discharged from hospitals, the Delhi government’s daily health bulletin showed.To prevent the spread of the virus, around 3,000 inmates have been released on interim bail and parole. All new prisoners are being kept in isolation at jail number 2 for 14 days, before being shifted to other jails. The biweekly family visit of all prisoners were suspended in March. They are, however, in touch with their families through the prison’s landline phones. The prisons’ inspector general, Raj Kumar, said that many officers living in flats inside the residential complex were told to self-isolate as a precautionary measure. “ The complex is not a hotspot. It is a precaution that we are taking to contain the spread of the disease. There complex is a collection of flats, so we directed those families living in the same or adjacent building to self-isolate as a precaution. The sanitisation process is also being carried as a precaution. Inside the prison, all our officials, as well as prisoners, are following social distancing norms. We immediately quarantine a prisoner or any officials, if he/she shows any symptoms.”Dr Puneet Mishra, professor of Community Medicine at AIIMS said it is important to take more precautions in a prison, where inmates share space. “ The government is already decongesting the prison. Transmission through asymptomatic officers is a possibility if the infected prisoners were not new or were locked all these months. It is important to conduct periodic surveillance of all prisoners if cases have started showing inside the prisons. I am not sure how much of it is possible in a prison, where space is confined, but the prisoners must be advised to maintain social distancing, wash their hands several times, use masks and take all other precautions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-cases-reported-from-all-sealed-prisons-jailors-may-be-carriers/story-yYcJgGtnzX7bEMdxeS4sJK.html
26-05-2020||Delhi||Power demand goes up as mercury rises, curbs ease||As temperatures soaring in the national capital, the peak power demand in Delhi touched 5,268mw on Sunday evening — the highest so far for the season. An analysis of government data also showed that Delhi’s power demand increased by over 31% since lockdown curbs were relaxed on May 18 but the daily average demand was 11% lower than what was recorded during the same week last year. Officials in the power department attributed this to a spike in the use of air-conditioners.“The highest power demand for this season was 5,268mw, recorded at 11.10pm on Sunday. With the forecast of a heatwave, the demand is going to increase further in the coming days. The main factor behind the increase in demand is the cooling load. Power consumption has increased substantially at night due to the increase in air-conditioner use,” a senior official in the power department said.According to government data, around 50% of Delhi’s power demand in summers is due to the use ACs, coolers and fans.Parts of the city have been experiencing heatwave-like conditions since May 22, with the maximum temperature in Palam, Aya Nagar and Lodi Road often touching the 45°C mark. On Monday, the maximum temperature recorded at Safdarjung, considered the official recording of the city, was 44°C, four notches above the season’s normal. In Palam, the mercury rose to 46.2°C, so far the highest temperature recorded in the observatory this season. The India Meteorological Department has forecast that the heatwave is likely to continue till May 27. Data shows that over the past week, electricity consumption peaked in the city at night on most days. This, however, was not the case during the same period last year. “This is an indicator that even though the daytime consumption has seen a spurt, it is still not more than consumption at night. It means industries, offices and other commercial connections are yet to be fully operational in the city. The demand peaking at night reflects that domestic consumption is much higher. Otherwise, in this heat, all offices and commercial units would have been using ACs during the day,” a discom official said.Under the Delhi government’s revised lockdown rules, while shops are allowed to open in an ‘odd-even’ sequence, they must shut by 7pm every day. Offices and industries too have been allowed to operate at full strength, provided their workers are based in Delhi. Meanwhile, malls, bars, pubs, and restaurants across the Capital are still shut.According to government reports, on May 17, a day before the lockdown was relaxed, the peak power demand in Delhi was 4,000mw which shot up to 5,268mw within a week, on May 24. In comparison, the demand last year was 4,933mw on May 17 and 5,094mw on May 24. The demand for the month in 2019 had peaked on May 31 at 6,461mw. “The average peak power demand from May 17 to May 24 last year was 5,185mw. The same for this year was 4,619mw. With relaxations in the lockdown, there are signs of resumption in various economic activities, because of which the peak power demand in Delhi is gradually going to increase. This is normal for this time. It is expected to touch or breach the peak of 7,409mw recorded in July last year,” said a spokesperson of Tata Power Delhi Distribution Limited (TPDDL).On April 26, HT had reported that the first month of the lockdown had not only decreased Delhi’s daily average power demand by 35% over the previous year, but it also turned out to be a period with the lowest average electricity consumption in the Capital over the last 11 years at least.Delhi has effectively been under lockdown, in phases, from March 22.But, BSES, discoms and officials of the state power department said the primary reason for the increase in consumption was the “soaring temperature and heat wave”.“Sunday’s demand was more than the peak power demand (5,094 MW) recorded on May 24, 2019. In fact, this is the first time this month that Delhi’s peak power demand has crossed last year’s peak on any given day so far. On May 31 last year, the peak power demand was 6,461mw,” a BSES spokesperson said.On their part, the BRPL and BYPL successfully met the peak power demand of 2,448mw and 1,227mw respectively on Sunday night. Tata Power-DDL said it met the peak demand of 1,493mw.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/power-demand-shoots-up-under-eased-lockdown-in-delhi/story-iy9XRVl8h0pFcuQVTJERNK.html
26-05-2020||City||Fire-fighting ops at Ludhiana woollen mill last for 12 hours, inquiry initiated||It took more than 12 hours for fire fighters to douse the flames that had broken out at RT Woollen Mill, RK Road, on Sunday. As many as 14 fire tenders were deployed at the spot with over 60 fire fighters working to douse the flames. The fire broke out around 12:30pm on Sunday and the reason behind it is uncertain. The double storey building spread on 1,500 square yards was damaged badly and material worth lakhs was gutted in the incident. No casualty was reported at the spot.‘COTTON, POLYESTER AND PETROLEUM PRODUCTS GUTTED’ Sub-fire officer (SFO) Maninder Singh said, “It was difficult even to enter the building due to the heat that was being emitted out of the building. I led a team of fire fighters to the roof of a building situated on the backside of the unit on fire and made a hole in the boundary wall so the intensity of heat could reduce inside the factory. Most of the material comprised cotton, polyester and petroleum products due to which it took more time to douse the flames.”One of the fire fighters, requesting anonymity, said the fire fighters also faced trouble in absence of safety suits. “If the department had given suits to the fire fighters, we might have entered the building and doused the flames faster. We could not enter the building due to the heat,” he said. The fire official also said, “We do not have proper equipment and in absence of this, we cover ourselves with wet clothes. The civic body and the state government have been making tall claims in the past, but nothing has been done to improve the condition of the fire brigade.”Assistant divisional fire officer Bhupinder Singh said the 14 fire tenders deployed at the spot were refilled for over 100 times. INQUIRY INITIATED BY SDM WESTAfter chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh directed deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Agrawal to look into the reason behind the fire incident, the DC has marked an inquiry in the matter to sub-divisional magistrate (SDM, west) Amrinder Malhi.SDM Malhi said he visited the spot on Monday and initiated the inquiry. “We have asked the owner to submit documents regarding the factory following which we will move forward with the inquiry. We could not enter the building as the smoke was still emanating out of the waste and reason behind the fire incident is uncertain.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fire-fighting-operations-at-ludhiana-woollen-mill-continue-for-12-hours-inquiry-initiated/story-g8ozoADdG7cIptikrSzQcK.html
26-05-2020||City||Lack of work disheartening for daily wagers back at labour chowks in and around Chandigarh||Almost deserted for two months after the Covid-19 curfew and lockdown, labour chowks where semi-skilled workers collect to be hired for short-term manual work, are seeing some activity, but there are hardly any jobs available.Those who are lucky to get some work say they have to deal with tough bargaining from contractors and often settle for lower wages.“I have come here every day in the last one week, but was hired only for two days,” says Mohammed Rustum, a mason at the Zirakpur-Shimla labour chowk in Zirakpur.Rustom, who moved to Mohali 10 years ago from Muzaffarpur in Uttar Pradesh (UP) and now rents a house in Baltana with his brother, says, “I had registered for the Shramik trains (special services for migrants) but it was difficult to get a ticket so I stayed back as construction activity started in the district. Walking home was not an option.” Moinuddin, a mason waiting at Madanpura chowk in Mohali, says earlier he would get some work within an hour after reaching the chowk. “Now there is no work. Only a handful of people get picked up.” “All construction and other projects have been held up after the lockdown and because of the migrant exodus we are not getting any work,” says Hira Lal, a contractor.Things, however, are not that bleak as work on some unfinished projects has started, he adds.‘People want to work with fewer people’Anuj Pandey, a contractor working in Chandigarh for the past 15 years, has been forced to return to his village in Chhapra, Bihar, as his savings ran out. Most of the contractors, he says on phone, have gone back to their villages and towns in the state and in UP. “ I and five other contractors with a team of 15 men have had a tough journey back. Almost 80% of the workforce has exited from cities because no work is available,” he says.Those who are left behind, too, are finding it hard to get work.Pandey, who used to supply manpower to the local industrial units in Chandigarh, adds, “Industrialists stopped responding to calls from labourers who were in dire need of money.” Echoing the same sentiment, Kanwaljeet Singh, president, All India Central Council of Trade Unions, said, “The labour involved in construction work has almost vanished. There is no drop in wage rates but demand for labour has dipped as people want to work with fewer people given social distancing rules.”No one stepping out in PanchkulaThe old labour chowk near Sector 17, Panchkula, bustling with activity once, remains deserted as people are not too keen to step out during the lockdown or hire workers.“Most of the labourers have returned to UP. Only a few who have settled down here are available for work, which anyway is scarce,” says Rajesh Kumar, a mason from Haripur village in Sector 4.Many local workers are not able to move out of Rajiv Colony near Sector 17 where they live as it has been declared a partial containment zone after a milk vendor tested positive earlier this month. Labourers are also being forced to deal with tough bargaining by contractors.“Earlier there was little room for bargaining,” says Rupali Devi who has been lucky to get work for four days in a week. “Now we are ready to work for any amount below Rs 300.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lack-of-work-disheartening-for-daily-wagers-back-at-labour-chowks-in-and-around-chandigarh/story-Eqq1QIPNWZr92PEq7k0QtL.html
26-05-2020||Pune||Pimpri-Chinchwad resumes operations, sees more Covid cases||PUNE: The industrial town of Pimpri-Chinchwad which had successfully kept Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection spread under control is now witnessing a sudden rise in the cases since the trade and industries operations resumed.As the number of Covid-19 cases went down the city administration took a call to relax the lockdown restrictions. According to Shravan Hardikar, municipal commissioner Pimpri-Chinchwad, the sudden rise in the number of cases has got nothing to do with relaxations on restrictions but instead concentrated cases in just one area. The PCMC decided to relax restrictions at the beginning of May and companies were asked to start operations with limited staff. This was later increased to full strength by May 22 and the public buses too have now been allowed to ply with 50 per cent strength.As of May 7, PCMC limits had 151 cases while as of May 24 this went up to 354. The area also recorded seven deaths among the residents of PCMC as of May 24.The fresh cases have forced PCMC to announce Anandnagar as a containment zone. While new cases are coming, as many as 170 people have been discharged till May 24.Hardikar said, “The sudden rise in the number of cases has only coincided with the opening of industries. If we deduct the 150 cases which all come from one slum area of Anandnagar then there are only sporadic cases like two or three cases daily. The rise in cases in the past few days has nothing to do with the industries.”“The infected have no travel history to the industries but are front line workers like loaders and sanitation workers. We started aggressive testing and contact tracing thereafter and so the number of cases went up,” he said.“There would be no shortage of cases in the PCMC area unless the active cases reach to 8,000 which is far fetched given that the number of active cases currently is only 155 as of Sunday,” said Hardikar.Dr Pawan Salve, chief health officer, PCMC, said, “We have seen some cases after the restrictions were lifted, however, we will have no shortage of beds given that we estimate around 200 cases by May end and 400 by June end and we have about 24,00 beds already in YCM hospital.”“We have also streamlined the testing strategy as per the new Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines to detect the infected soon as possible,” Said Dr Salve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-pcmc-as-trade-operations-resume/story-4abAiVGX4dKx5Xidu8fWhL.html
26-05-2020||Pune||Export of agricultural commodities rises despite lockdown||India’s export of agriculture based commodities such as garlic, lemons, chilies and bananas have been higher this year than previous years, despite the national lockdown.According to an official from the Maharashtra state agricultural marketing board (MSAMB), India’s export in April and May 2020 has been higher than May 2019.The MSAMB export data shows that from April 1 to May 19 this year, the total export of garlic stood at 1168 metric tonnes while it was 846 metric tonnes last year during the corresponding period.Lemons also reported a higher export with 653 metric tonnes compared to 283 metric tonnes last year while chillies stood at 1522 metric tonnes compared to 1409 metric tonnes last year and bananas at 33948 metric tonnes which was 23456 metric tonnes last year.Most of the export happened through the sea route and for countries in the Middle East, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, and other neighbouring countries. Mangoes and grapes were the only fruit that went by air to Europe.MSAMB managing director Sunil Pawar said, “Despite other sectors affected badly due to Covid-19, we have been able to save the agriculture export.”According to Pawar, agriculture export mainly increased for bananas, lemons, chilies, and garlic.“During the period from April 1 to May 19, total 17051 metric tonnes commodities were exported from JNPT and airways and almost 90 percentage of share is from Maharashtra. In the same period during 2019, a total 18389 metric tonnes commodities got exported which shows only 7 per cent less than previous year.”Pawar said the state government has created the central control room at Vashi in Mumbai which has helped to give single window licences for everything.india@123i||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/export-of-agricultural-commodities-rises-despite-lockdown/story-xthJ8v3Kt0rNW59O93KEIL.html
26-05-2020||Pune||From Pune to West Bengal, this truck driver braved heat, rain to ensure migrants get home||Bhagwat Solunkhe, 30, is one of the many people who contributed in helping the migrant labours in Pune reach their native places. Solunkhe took a group of 20 labourers from Pune to Kolkata before the cyclone Amphan hit the eastern coast and derailed all migrant movement.Even though the journey did not provide comforts like a bed or fan to counter the sweltering heat, he recounts the journey nonchalantly.“It had started pouring there when we left. The journey back was arduous. too. I reached home only on Sunday,” said Solunkhe.The truck was a paid service which had police permit from Pune rural police - Wagheshwar parking in Wagjoli to Nadia district in West Bengal. The truck stopped once for a bath in Nagpur and midway for food but never for sleep.“Yes, we were giving permissions to people who were arranging for their own vehicles but instructed them to maintain social distance. We have maintained due records of all,” said senior police inspector Pratap Mankar of Lonikand police station. However, it had to stop after the cyclone.Their journey started on May 14 and ended in Krishnanagar, Nadia, according to Solunkhe.“It was tiring. After all we did not stop at all for almost four days. There were sleeping arrangements made for migrants in the truck. The co-driver Sadashiv Mange, 37, was driving when I slept,” said Solunkhe.The truck was sanitised before leaving and the drivers as well as the passengers were given masks added Solunkhe.“We paid Rs 5,250 each for the journey. When in Maharashtra, we got food, but once we left the borders, it was difficult to get food,” said Asabuddin Sheikh, 45, a resident of Nadia who travelled in the truck. Shaikh used to work at a construction site in Hinjewadi Phase 1.The food, Solunkhe recalls, was filling within Maharashtra border. However, the food served after they crossed the border was not enough and left them famished. “They were serving whatever best they could - poha, jaggery, banana, biscuits, but that was not enough as in Maharashtra we were provided with a proper meal of chapati-bhaji,” he recalls.The truck passed through Ahmednagar, Jalna, Akola, and Nagpur before crossing into Chattishgarh where the truck stopped in Raipur and Sambalpur before entering into West Bengal where the truck stopped in Khadakpur.The truck was one of the last ones to get a permit to travel to West Bengal as the cyclone hit. The Shramik trains to the state were also stopped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/from-pune-to-west-bengal-this-driver-braved-heat-rain-to-ensure-migrants-get-home/story-07xfE9XN1kbCS8hKonHyMI.html
26-05-2020||City||Ludhiana university develops contactless automatic sanitiser dispenser||CT University (CTU), Ludhiana, under the flagship of research and innovation centre for excellence (RICE) has developed an in-house contactless automatic sanitiser dispenser.COSTS LESS THAN Rs 2,500Research and development engineer Jaspreet Singh said, “The automatic dispenser senses a hand using an infrared (IR)-based sensor and then a powerful direct current motor pump actuates and the nozzle ejects a fine mist of sanitiser over the hands. It sprays the sanitiser uniformly over the hand and consumes five times less sanitiser than the manual one. The overall cost of the machine is less than Rs 2,500.”CTU managing director Harsh Sadawarti said the device can be installed in various schools, universities and shopping malls where public crowd is more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-university-develops-contactless-automatic-sanitiser-dispenser/story-4YMD90osjs1dtFd5Hy8TBI.html
26-05-2020||City||200 discuss ‘world after coronavirus’ during Panjab University international conference||Around 200 participants from India, Nepal, South Africa, Australia and Oman on Sunday participated in a virtual international conference on the theme ‘World after coronavirus: Economic, social and political transformations’.The conference was organised by University Business School (UBS), Panjab University (PU) regional centre, Ludhiana. Director of the PU regional centre, Ravi Inder Singh, said the coronavirus has raised a series of serious questions that are perplexing human mind, for example, changes in international political relations, impact on the social fabric and the economic downturn.Central University of Haryana vice-chancellor RC Kuhad, who was the chief guest, said, “Never ever in the history of mankind, such kind of disruption has been seen in the economic and social activities along with the economic activities. Even the places of worship such as gurdwaras, temples and churches have been shut down. “Presently, a series of serious questions emerging from the lockdown are perplexing the human mind. The questions are -- What will be the economic impact of the coronavirus on the world as well as domestic economies and which country will emerge as the world super power. People are debating about the expected change in the international political scenario and the society post the lockdown,” he said.‘AUTOMATION, IT, ROBOTICS TO PLAY CRUCIAL ROLE’Director of the Consortium for Educational Communication, New Delhi, JB Nadda, said that automation, robotics, artificial intelligence and information technology (IT) are going to occupy a very crucial role in the post coronavirus era. “With the passage of time, organisational structure will change and take an oval shape. As IT is going to occupy a very prominent role, it may erode our social values and culture,” he said.A total of 90 papers were presented during eight technical sessions of the conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/200-discuss-world-after-coronavirus-during-panjab-university-international-conference/story-eZN4rBJ8vzUN39Z8WCncUN.html
26-05-2020||City||Mohali woman tests positive for Covid-19 after delivery; district count climbs to 106||A 29-year-old woman tested positive for Covid-19 two days after delivering a child, taking the Mohali district’s count to 106 on Monday. She is the lone active case in the district, which had last reported a case on May 10 and witnessed recovery of two remaining patients on May 21.The woman, who is a resident of Adarsh Nagar in Nayagaon, had given birth to a child at Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, Chandigarh, on May 23.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the woman’s sample was collected as a routine procedure. “We have traced and taken samples of her 14 contacts. The reports will come on Wednesday. We have already sealed the area. The woman is admitted to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) and her condition is stable,” he said. Nayagaon has already reported eight cases of Covid-19, including a death.With 102 people recovering so far and three deaths, Mohali has the recovery rate and fatality rate of 96% and 2.8%, respectively. Sealed for 51 days, Jawaharpur is now containment-freeJawaharpur village in Dera Bassi, which had remained sealed for 51 days, is no more a containment zone.  “The village is now containment-free as it has been 14 days since a positive case was reported there,” said Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan.After a panch was tested positive for Covid-19 on April 4, the village reported 45 more cases, including the sarpanch, the total accounting for 44% of Mohali district’s tally.The same day, the village located on the Ambala- Chandigarh highway was declared as one of the hotspots and containment zone, and was sealed. While cops kept vigil at nakas set up around the village, which has a population of around 3,000, a special police force assisted health officials in screening the residents. The administration also provided ration to villagers at their doorsteps, thought there were several complaints of poor management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-woman-tests-positive-for-covid-19-after-delivery/story-6z7SqvNn7gSCRQ0JVpojAP.html
26-05-2020||Pune||Strict PCMC guidelines, have salons, parlours open... on edge||The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) issued guidelines this past weekend allowing salons and beauty parlours to reopen.However, most salons and beauty parlours remained shut on Monday, staying under lockdown, now for nearly two-and-a-half months.Kiran Sonawane, a salon owner in Akurdi, said, “We have not yet started the saloon because the guidelines received from the civic body are very strict and we need time. Secondly, after Eid, a holiday, will salons slowly start opening.”Vrushali Chavan owner of the Manasi beauty parlour in of Nigdi-Pradhikaran, said, “We received the guidelines. We have not yet decided to start our parlour. We may think of starting from June 1, but will only allow customers from green zones.”Gauri Pande, another beauty parlour owner in the Chinchwad area, said, “We started our parlour on Monday but took three customers by appointment only. We have taken all the safety measures to ensure the safety of our customers.”PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar said, “The civic body laid strict norms to reopen the salons and beauty parlours. We have allowed only the salons outside containment zones to reopen.”PCMC guidelines for saloons/parlours:Only salons operating in legal buildings with proper water connections have permission to operateBarbers have been directed to install foot-operated or no-contact sanitiser dispensers Inside the salon, a barber can service only one customer if the shop has two chairs. If the salon has five chairs, only two customers will be permitted at onceCustomers have to get an appointment over the phone so as to avoid crowding inside the salonThe barber should disinfect hands before and after cutting customers’ hair. Masks are mandatory. Customers can remove them during a haircut or shave.Barbers should keep a set of new napkins and soak old ones in sodium hypochlorite (1 per cent) for 30 minutes before reusing themThe directives also state that customers should be encouraged to bring their own napkins. If it was not possible to disinfect shaving brush each time, then shaving should be done with foam or gelBarbers have also been directed to ensure that a customer occupies the chair only after it has been disinfected For a head or face massage, disposable gloves are mandatory. Every four hours, barbers should disinfect their salonSalons will remain open from 9 am to 5 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/strict-pcmc-guidelines-permission-to-put-salons-parlours-on-edge/story-ns94ZF0wopxwhxHlu9dyaM.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Gurdwara attacked in UK hate crime; damage worth thousands of pounds on premises||Guru Arjan Dev Gurdwara in Derby was subjected to hate crime on Monday morning when a person entered the premises and caused damage worth thousands of pounds, gurdwara officials said.Labour MP Preet Kaur Gill regretted the incident. “Very sad to see an attack on any place of worship. Thoughts are with the Derby sangat (community) who have been providing 500 meals a day from Guru Arjan Dev Gurdwara,” she said.Images of the person caught on CCTV entering the premises were shared by the gurdwara on social media, while reporting the incident, causing concern and demands for his arrest.The gurdwara said in a statement: “This morning at 6am, an individual entered the gurdwara premises causing thousands of pounds of damage…We can confirm that no individuals were injured and that the clean-up process has begun.” “This hate crime or any sort of crime against a Sikh will never deter us in our practice of seva (service) and simran (prayer). We will continue the service for the community with langar and continue to stream live nitnem (daily prayers). We will ensure the safety of all our sevadars (volunteers) and employees,” it added.Gurdwaras across the UK have been recipients of funding as part of a government scheme to install security equipment to prevent hate crime in places of worship, but such incidents have continued. The accused has been arrested. The Derbyshire police said, “The Guru Arjan Dev Gurdwara on Cromwell Road was broken into and we believe the assault and break in are linked. We were called just before 8.40am with reports of the break in, which is understood to have happened sometime in the early hours.”“A man who was earlier arrested in connection with the assault in Normanton Road has also been arrested on suspicion of burglary in relation to this incident. We would like to reassure the local community that our investigations into both incidents continue and we do not believe there to be any one else involved,”police said. Superintendent Gareth Meadows said: “I would like to thank the Sikh community and the local people in Normanton for their assistance with our enquiries. Our officers remain in the area, if you have any information in relation to these two incidents please speak to the officers or contact us .”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gurdwara-attacked-in-uk-hate-crime-damage-worth-thousands-of-pounds-on-premises/story-GLaNwmykthmCnFA5JbCUPP.html
26-05-2020||Pune||Grocery wholesale at Market Yard reopens after a week, strict guidelines for traders in Pune||The Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC), a wholesale grocery market at Pune’s Market Yard, reopened on Monday, after almost a week.The market had been closed since May 19 after eight people including two traders tested positive for Covid-19. The market was allowed to reopen following a meeting between Poona Merchants Chamber Association and the Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram during which he also addressed the concerns of the traders about Covid. APMC, Pune has issued strict guidelines for traders following the reopening including thermal scanning of those visiting the market, using face masks and restricting the number of trucks allowed to enter the market. “As it is a huge grocery market with at least 400 shops, daily hundreds of trucks come to the market for unloading the goods. However, from today onwards, only 100 trucks will be allowed during the day from gate no. 5 of Market Yard. Our security guards will check the body temperature of every person entering the market through thermal scanners. Social distancing, taking all the necessary safety precautions like sanitising the shop daily, use of mask and gloves is mandatory for the traders,” said Balasaheb Deshmukh, chairman APMC, Pune.Pune police department has deployed policemen and temporary check posts on the Market Yard road to monitor the vehicular movement and crowding. As the market was closed since the last few days, several goods trucks coming from outside Pune were selling goods on Satara Road. It has now been stopped and action is being taken by the police department.Mahesh Rathi, one of the traders who has a shop in Market Yard, said, “As the market was closed since the last few days, we were not able to unload our goods coming from outside the state. Most of the trucks are standing outside Pune city on highways, waiting to unload the goods. It’s a relief now that the market has reopened and we can supply necessary groceries and food grains to the city retailers. At the same time we are taking all the precautions. All the workers coming to our godown are being sanitised. None of the workers living in containment zone are allowed to come for work and we are giving them full salary.”Though the wholesale grocery market has reopened, the APMC vegetable market remains closed. It is likely to open after a meeting on Tuesday between traders and APMC officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-pune-s-wholesale-market-reopens-after-a-week-strict-guidelines-for-traders/story-ywSwf7epXFIXt0DshYTYBJ.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||With 26 new cases in 24 hours, HP breaches 200 mark||Himachal Pradesh’s tally crossed the 200-mark after twenty-six more people tested positive for Covid-19 late on Sunday and Monday.Eight cases were reported from Kangra, six from Una four each from Chamba and Shimla, three from Bilaspur and one from Hamirpur.The state tally has touched 223, of which 151 are active cases said special secretary (health) Nipun Jindal.HOME GUARD TESTS POSITIVEA home guard, on-field duty, was among the six people who tested positive in Una late on Sunday, taking the state’s tally past 200. His source of infection is being traced.Una deputy commissioner Sandeep Kumar said three of the Covid-19 patients had travelled from Mumbai and two from Delhi.TWENTY CASES TODAYMeanwhile, twenty more cases were reported in Kangra, Chamba, Shimla, Bilaspur and Hamirpur on Monday.Eight people were tested positive in Kangra.Two returned from Ahemdabad and four from Maharashtra. All of them were in institutional quarantine, said Kangra Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati.Late evening a 28-year-old mother and her seven-month-old son were tested positive in Jawali subdivision of Kangra. They returned from Delhi recently.Four people from Tissa subdivision of Chamba district, who travelled from Chennai, were also tested positive in the afternoon.Four people from Chopal and Theog subdivision of Shimla tested positive for Covid-19. They had returned from Mumbai on May 18 in a special train and were quarantined in an institutional facility at Deha in Theog tehsil.Bilaspur district also recorded three cases. Two returned from Mumbai and travel history of the third is being traced, said Bilaspur deputy commissioner Rajeshwar Goel.One 25-year-old woman from Barsar subdivision of Hamirpur district tested positive. She had travelled from Mumbai with her husband, who had tested positive on May 22.CASES DOUBLE IN FIVE DAYSThe Covid-19 cases in Himachal have doubled in five days. Himachal had recorded its 100th case on May 20.It took exactly two months two reach the 100-mark. The first case was reported on March 20. As many as 125 people have tested positive in the last five days.Himachal Pradesh had witnessed the biggest single-day spike last Thursday with 42 people testing positive for the virus.THE MAY SEES THE SPIKEHimachal has witnessed a spurt in Covid-19 cases after May 4 with 183 people testing positive for the virus.Hamirpur was the worst-hit district with 63 cases followed by Kangra with 59 cases.Thirty cases have been reported in Una, 20 in Solan, 18 in Chamba, 11 each in Mandi and Bilaspur, six in Shimla, four in Sirmaur, and one in Kullu.As many as 63 people have recovered.51 MAHARASHTRA RETURNEES SYMPTOMATICFifty-one people who returned to Kangra from Maharashtra on Sunday in a special train have influenza-like illness symptoms.A total of 1,125 people stranded in Maharashtra and Gujarat arrived in two trains.Preliminary health screening for the segregation of symptomatic persons was done at the Una railway station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-200-with-12-new-cases/story-K1si1NREtM66EKnQHOVBYN.html
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Covid crisis: Cobblers in Chandigarh finding it hard to cobble a living||Rs 30, Rs 20, zero. This is how much Vakil Ravidas, a 50-year-old cobbler with a family of six to feed, has managed to earn in the past three days.Putting up in one-room rented accommodation in Faidan Nizampur village in Chandigarh, Ravidas was eagerly waiting for the relaxation in the lockdown, but all his hopes of making a decent income dashed as hardly anyone from the residential societies near his working area in Sector 48 visited him in the past three days amid fear of coronavirus spread.Having spent all his savings during the past couple of months, Ravidas, a native of Katihar in Bihar, said, “My roadside counter has been closed for 40 days. My last earning was of Rs 400 on March 21 and after that everything was shut. Whatever the savings I had, I spent it on the food and last month’s rent. For almost two days, my elder son and I slept on an empty stomach. Then I got some ration from the administration and Bihar government deposited Rs 1,000 in my account, which helped me pull through the curfew period.” Ravidas is among the 200 cobblers in city, who were not relocated when vendor-free zones were established across Chandigarh, and were allowed to operate from their old workplaces as the profession was one of the essential services. But the present situation has spelled a hard time for them to get their business back on track.“It was only on Tuesday that a plumber got his shoe polished and a sanitation worker got his footwear stitched that I earned Rs 30. Earlier I used to earn anything between Rs 200 to Rs 600 a day and the monthly earning touched Rs 12,000,” adds Ravidas, a third generation cobbler, who doesn’t want any of his three sons and a daughter to pick the craft. With his eldest son studying in BA, the other two in school, and the daughter a student of Class 2, Ravidas can only “hopes things improve in the coming days, otherwise the family will have to stand in long queues to get food.” I don’t want to beg, he says.‘THINGS ARE GETTING WORSE’ “Those sitting in the market area are still able to earn Rs 100 daily, but the ones in the residential areas are even not able to earn enough to have two meals for a single person,” says Hari Lal, 58, who operates from the inner market of Sector 18. “For saving maximum money, I left the quarters two years ago and started sleeping in the malaria office. But now things are getting worse. What will I earn? What will I save? I am planning to go back to my native place Gajpati Khera in Rai Bareli (Uttar Pradesh) for a couple of months and will return when things get normal,” adds Hari. “Generations of our family have been into mending shoes. This is the only craft we know. Hope things get better soon and we will able to live with dignity. Nobody likes to live on the mercy of others,” says Alopi Prasad, a cobbler who operates from the inner market of Sector 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-crisis-cobblers-in-chandigarh-finding-it-hard-to-cobble-a-living/story-a89qJJdzfj6WnVF4Fmsn0N.html
26-05-2020||World||Pentagon watchdog resigns after being blocked from stimulus role by Trump||The Pentagon watchdog who was originally cast to chair the independent committee overseeing more than $2 trillion in virus stimulus spending resigned a month after being blocked from that role by President Donald Trump.Glenn Fine, the principal deputy inspector general at the Pentagon, said in a statement issued Tuesday that the “time had come” for him to step down, while praising the responsibility federal watchdogs have to pursue investigations independent of political pressures.“They are a vital component of our system of checks and balances and I am grateful to have been part of that system,” Fine said in a statement sent by Dwrena Allen, a spokeswoman for the Pentagon Inspector General’s office.Fine -- who had served in the George W. Bush and Barack Obama administrations -- had originally been tapped by his peers to lead the Pandemic Response Accountability Committee, but the appointment came as Trump was increasingly taking action against inspectors general he sees as insufficiently loyal.In an unexpected move in early April, Trump ousted Fine from his job as acting Defense Department inspector general, effectively removing him from being able to serve on the committee. Afterward, Trump said he didn’t know Fine and didn’t think he had ever met him.Pandemic Watchdog Activates Site to Track Trillions in SpendingFine was praised by Jim Mattis, Trump’s first defense secretary, as a “public servant in the finest tradition of honest, competent governance,” Yahoo News reported at the time.Since then, Fine had returned to the Pentagon to his prior role as principal deputy.In his period as acting inspector general at the Defense Department, Fine improved the transparency of his office, reducing a reliance on a “For Official Use Only” label on documents that’s frequently used in the Pentagon to limit distribution of sensitive or embarrassing information.He also was credited with improving morale in his department as he pursued a wide range of probes from cost overruns on key weapons systems to the the U.S. military struggles in Syria and Iraq.The former Harvard University basketball point guard was drafted in the 10th round by the San Antonio Spurs in 1979 but accepted a Rhodes Scholarship to Oxford University instead.For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2020 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pentagon-watchdog-resigns-after-being-blocked-from-stimulus-role-by-trump/story-R1ZncJhM26oujCWwPnyDBI.html
26-05-2020||World||Chinese lawmakers propose foreign states immunities law to counter Covid-19 lawsuit in the US||Chinese lawmakers have proposed formulating a foreign states immunities law, following litigations filed against the Asian powerhouse in the US and other countries seeking compensation over the coronavirus outbreak.The move will protect the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese citizens as well as foreign investors, said Ma Yide, a deputy to the National People’s Congress (NPC) and a law researcher at the Beijing Academy of Social Sciences.It will also counteract malicious litigations raised in countries like the US towards China over the COVID-19 response, Ma told reporters Tuesday on the sidelines of the annual parliament session.A lawsuit was filed by Missouri Attorney General Eric Schmitt against the Chinese government, the ruling Communist Party of China (CPC), and other Chinese officials and institutions in the US District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri.It alleges that during the critical weeks of the initial outbreak of the coronavirus, the Chinese authorities deceived the public, suppressed crucial information, arrested whistle-blowers, denied human-to-human transmission in the face of mounting evidence, destroyed critical medical research, allowed millions of people to be exposed to the virus, and even hoarded personal protective equipment (PPE), causing a global pandemic that was unnecessary and preventable.Observers say the Missouri lawsuit could pose a problem to China in view of the US courts’ claim of universal jurisdiction.Asked for his reaction to the lawsuits whether Beijing is concerned that China’s assets overseas could be seized, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Sunday said, “Some people are clamouring for so-called accountability and compensation from a victim of COVID-19. They are fabricating so-called evidence for frivolous lawsuits. These people are tramping on international rule of law and betraying human conscience” Ma said the lack of such a law has emerged as a prominent issue in the current epidemic as some countries, led by the United States, tried to shift the blame for their own governments’ incompetence on COVID-19 response.Some groups and individuals in some countries even cited the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act of the United States to bring litigations to the Chinese government and relevant departments, he added.“This has trampled on the internationally recognised principle of sovereign immunity, and is also a show of hegemony and power politics,” Ma said, stressing the necessity and urgency for China to formulate a foreign states immunities law. China follows the principle of absolute immunity of foreign states and their property, thus Chinese litigants are unable to sue foreign governments from domestic courts, while Chinese governments have often been sued in foreign courts, he added.Ma suggested adopting a limited immunities principle, which is more commonly found in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and the European Union countries.From a long-term perspective, adopting a limited immunities principle will show a responsible manner of the Chinese government to foreign investors, ensure stable expectations for the protection of their investments, and facilitate China’s new round of opening-up and the development of the Belt and Road Initiative, he said.Over 35 lawmakers from the NPC Beijing delegation have endorsed the proposal, which has been accepted by the session and forwarded to special committees of the National Legislature for consideration, state-run Xinhua news agency reported.It is expected to be passed by the NPC on May 28, the last day of the current session. PTI KJV IND RUP RUP||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-lawmakers-propose-foreign-states-immunities-law-to-counter-covid-19-lawsuit-in-the-us/story-HaiJQT59lj4h86wlUiHHKM.html
26-05-2020||World||176 Pakistan citizens, stranded in India due to lockdown, to return home||A batch of 176 Pakistanis stranded in India due to the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown will return home via the Attari-Wagah land border crossing on May 27.More than 400 Pakistani nationals stranded in India have been repatriated via Attari-Wagah land border since March 20.The Pakistanis who will return on Wednesday were stranded in different states, including Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand and Delhi due to the extended lockdown and the closure of the Attari-Wagah border crossing following the coronavirus outbreak.“In line with the Prime Minister’s directions, for safe and smooth repatriation of stranded Pakistanis, the high commission for Pakistan in New Delhi remained in close contact with the Indian side and the Foreign Office has been coordinating with other national authorities in Pakistan,” the high commission said in a statement issued on Tuesday.The high commission also facilitated and coordinated logistics for transporting the Pakistani nationals to Attari from more than 20 Indian cities amid the lockdown.The ongoing efforts of Pakistan’s foreign ministry will continue till the repatriation of all remaining stranded Pakistanis, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/176-pakistan-citizens-stranded-in-india-due-to-lockdown-to-return-home/story-ZZ9rrUq5P1f8J5acv1HXdL.html
26-05-2020||World||Putin says Russia passed peak of Coronavirus epidemic, orders World War II victory Parade||President Vladimir Putin said Russia has passed the peak of the coronavirus epidemic and ordered preparations to resume for military parades marking the 75th anniversary of the World War II victory.Moscow and other cities should stage the postponed May 9 Victory Day parades on June 24, “given that the situation in the country as a whole, in most regions and in the Armed Forces is stable, and that it is stabilizing in many places after the peak of infections,” Putin told Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu in a videoconference Tuesday.The Kremlin had planned particularly grand commemorations for the 75th anniversary this year, before Putin was forced in April to postpone the nationwide events as the coronavirus spread. The annual Red Square parade in Moscow involving thousands of troops and Russia’s most sophisticated weapons has long been an occasion for him to project a sense of power and national pride.With Russia’s economic activity declining by a third during a two-month nationwide lockdown to limit the spread of the epidemic, the Kremlin is now seeking to limit the fallout.Infections SlowThe rate of new infections has started to slow in Russia, which over the weekend slipped to third place in the number of total cases globally, after Brazil and the U.S.Diagnoses rose 2.5% in the past day to 362,342. Russia reported a record 174 deaths in the same period, taking the total to 3,807.The Kremlin is considering holding both the parade and a referendum that would open the way for Putin to remain in power until 2036, RBC website reported last week, citing four unidentified officials.The referendum, which was planned for April 22 before the epidemic derailed it, initially seemed to be a formality after parliament and the Constitutional Court took less than a week to rubber-stamp the changes endorsed by Putin that allow him to seek two more six-year terms when his current one ends in 2024.However, the economic decline due to the restrictions and a plunge in demand for oil, Russia’s main export, have caused Putin’s approval ratings to slip, according to the Levada Center and FOM polling services. Levada last month reported Putin’s approval rating fell to the lowest level in two decades.French President Emmanuel Macron had accepted Putin’s invitation to leaders of wartime allied nations to join him on Red Square for the May 9 parade. It’s unclear how many world leaders will be present on the new date, which marks the 75th anniversary of the first victory parade held by Soviet leader Joseph Stalin as troops began returning home following the defeat of Nazi Germany.Kazakh President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev accepted Putin’s invitation to attend the parade during a phone talk Tuesday, according to his presidential website.While Putin told Shoigu that “the peak for us has passed, according to the specialists,” he also ordered him to take “the strictest security” measures to reduce any risks for participants.Mass marches known as “Immortal Regiments” of members of the public in memory of relatives who fought in the war will take place a month later, on July 26, because it’s not possible to observe social distancing at these events and more time is needed for the virus to subside, Putin said. They had also been planned for May 9.For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2020 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/putin-says-russia-passed-peak-of-coronavirus-epidemic-orders-world-war-ii-victory-parade/story-ppVthlasoEPyunLmAuj2RN.html
26-05-2020||World||Donald Trump threatens to shift Republican convention||President Donald Trump has threatened to shift the upcoming Republican party convention, where he will be officially crowned as the party’s presidential nominee for the November elections out of Democratic-ruled North Carolina, citing continuing Covid-19 related restrictions there.But the president denied he intended to shift it to one of his resorts in his adoptive state of Florida.Trump’s threat came in a bunch of tweets on a day the country observed Memorial Day in the memory of those who died while serving in US military, and in the shadow of US fatalities from Covid-19 set to cross 100,000. The toll had climbed closer to the mark to 98,223 by Tuesday morning with 500 more deaths in the last 24 hours; and infections were up to 1.66 million with 19,056 more.Both Republican and Democratic party conventions have been pushed back by a month in anticipation of continued restrictions from their earlier dates in late July to late August. The Republicans meet in Charlotte, North Carolina, and Democrats in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.Trump threatened the venue change saying North Carolina’s Democratic governor Roy Cooper is in a “shutdown mood & unable to guarantee that by August we will be allowed full attendance in the Aren (the convention venue).”“If not,” he added, “we will be reluctantly forced to to find, with all of the jobs and economic development it brings, another Republican National Convention site.”The state governor pushed back through aides. They said that while public health officials are working with the Republican party on how to hold the convention, as scheduled, “North Carolina is relying on data and science to protect our state’s public health and safety”.Trump has targeted Democratic state governors as he has pushed for rolling back restrictions that have led to unprecedented layoffs with 38 million people having applied for unemployment benefits in the nine weeks of the lockdown. At the peak of the outbreak mid-April, he had egged on protestors with a call to “liberate” Michigan, Virginia and Minnesota.His mind is clearly on his the November elections. His tweeting has been less about the outbreak increasingly than politics: hitting Joe Biden, the Democratic nominee — over his use of masks, among other things — and his boss the former President Barack Obama. And he has taken to tweeting a new slogan, mostly in all-cpas, “Transition to Greatness”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-threatens-to-shift-republican-convention/story-Xw3eLDKnHOJasErLn0CDpL.html
26-05-2020||World||UK minister quits over PM aide’s lockdown breach row; some shops to open||The row over Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s chief adviser breaching lockdown rules continued to bedevil the government as a junior minister resigned in protest on Tuesday and several ruling Conservative MPs and others reiterated their demand that he step down or be sacked.The story of chief adviser Dominic Cummings travelling over 260 miles from London to Durham in violation of official advice in March-end after he and his wife had coronavirus symptoms overshadowed plans to reopen some shops and markets from June 1.Douglas Ross, minister for Scotland, referred to fury among his constituents over Cummings’ actions in his resignation letter to Johnson, and said questions remained for the aide to answer after he appeared before the news media on Monday evening.Ross said: “I have constituents who didn’t get to say goodbye to loved ones; families who could not mourn together; people who didn’t visit sick relatives because they followed the guidance of the government”.“I cannot in good faith tell them they were all wrong and one senior adviser to the government was right,” he wrote in his resignation letter.Attempts by Johnson and Cummings to brazen out the row were met by furious headlines not only in the left-leaning newspapers such as The Guardian and Mirror, but also Conservative-supporting mass circulation tabloids such as the Daily Mail.Church of England bishops who joined calls for the adviser’s resignation said on Tuesday they had received death threats, as the death toll and number of cases in the UK continued to rise.Johnson announced partial opening of markets: “Outdoor markets and car showrooms will be able to reopen from 1 June, as soon as they are able to meet the Covid-19 secure guidelines to protect shoppers and workers”.“All other non-essential retail including shops selling clothes, shoes, toys, furniture, books, and electronics, plus tailors, auction houses, photography studios, and indoor markets, will be expected to be able to reopen from 15 June”, he said.However, the plans were met with doubts if customers would feel confident to return to shops as the threat of pandemic continues to loom and a boom in online shopping. The row over Cummings has also endangered public trust in official advice on dealing with the virus.Stephen Reicher, expert on the government’s Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies, told Sky News: “One of the central messages that we gave to Government, one of the central points that we made was that the way we have gotten through this pandemic to date is by acting together, by thinking in terms of ‘we’, of what’s good for the community”.“Millions of people up and down the country have done precisely that in very difficult circumstances, agonising circumstances around their families and thought ‘What is good for us as a community?’ I think the real problem here is that not simply in what Cummings did but in the messaging that the Prime Minister put out. The lesson was, forget about the ‘we’, it’s about ‘I’.”“Now, thank God, the public at large didn’t take that attitude, the public at large, as I say, made those major sacrifices, but it threatens to undermine that sense of community if a figure as prominent as Dominic Cummings and if the Prime Minister himself starts undermining that ‘we’ message and starts talking about ‘I’.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-minister-quits-over-pm-aide-s-lockdown-breach-row-some-shops-to-open/story-TkgXaIFh66VTHflNyiVpVI.html
26-05-2020||World||Coronavirus is just tip of the iceberg, warns China’s ‘bat woman’||Shi Zhengli, a virologist renowned for her work on coronavirus in bats, said in an interview on Chinese state television that viruses being discovered now are “just the tip of the iceberg” and called for international cooperation in the fight against epidemics.Known as China’s “bat woman,” the deputy director of the Wuhan Institute of Virology said research into viruses needs scientists and governments to be transparent and cooperative, and that it is “very regrettable” when science is politicized.“If we want to prevent human beings from suffering from the next infectious disease outbreak, we must go in advance to learn of these unknown viruses carried by wild animals in nature and give early warnings,” Shi told CGTN. “If we don’t study them there will possibly be another outbreak.”Her interview with TV channel CGTN coincided with the start of the National People’s Congress, an annual meeting of China’s top leadership in Beijing. This year’s NPC comes as the country’s relationship with the U.S. turns increasingly frayed, with President Donald Trump and Secretary of State Michael Pompeo both saying the coronavirus sweeping the world is likely linked to the Wuhan laboratory.China has rejected the accusations. Shi has said that the genetic characteristics of the viruses she’s worked with didn’t match those of the coronavirus spreading in humans. In a social media post, she wrote she would “swear on my life” the pandemic had nothing to do with her lab. In another interview with CGTN over the weekend, the director of the Wuhan Institute of Virology, Wang Yanyi, said the idea that the virus escaped from the lab was “pure fabrication.”The outbreak has infected more than 5.4 million people worldwide and killed over 345,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-is-just-tip-of-the-iceberg-warns-china-s-bat-woman/story-2hxrXlIAbHTzHA7FvCHvRM.html
26-05-2020||World||Wuhan tests millions in 12 days as China fears second virus wave||Wuhan, the epicenter of China’s coronavirus outbreak, said it tested nearly seven million people in 12 days, concluding a campaign to test the entire population after several infections prompted fears of a second wave.A total of 6.68 million people underwent nucleic acid tests, of which 206 asymptomatic cases were reported, according to Bloomberg calculations based on daily numbers released by the local health commission.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageWuhan’s mass testing campaign is part of China’s efforts to prevent the resurgence of the epidemic at all costs after it shut down large swathes of the world’s second-largest economy to get it under control. The emergence of a new cluster of cases in its northeast region led officials to lock down some 100 million residents.The ambitious testing mission was announced on May 12, days after new infections emerged for the first time since a 76-day lockdown was lifted in Wuhan in April. The pace of testing increased rapidly over the course of the campaign, with the city offering tests to over 1.1 million people on May 23, more than 26 times the number that were completed on the first day, according to the Wuhan Health Commission.Chinese President Xi Jinping stressed the need to “not ruin the hard-won achievement” of containing the virus at a meeting with representatives from Hubei, the province of which Wuhan is the capital, during high-profile annual legislative meetings underway in Beijing.The nation’s top leaders strive to project an image of calm and stability during the National People’s Congress every year, making it all the more crucial for the new clusters to be quickly stamped out.Even before the mandated citywide testing in Wuhan, many companies in the city had taken the initiative to test all their employees before they returned to work because they risked getting shut down again if even a single infection was found.China has also embarked on a serological survey to determine the true scale of its outbreak. The project involves researchers taking blood samples from a representative group of people to see if they have generated antibodies to fight the virus, a sign they were infected with the virus at some point.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wuhan-tests-millions-in-12-days-as-china-fears-second-virus-wave/story-efwADhcyzbuKU1wppIH11I.html
26-05-2020||World||UK minister quits as row over PM Johnson aide’s lockdown drive continues||A junior minister in the Boris Johnson government resigned on Tuesday as the controversy over the prime minister’s chief adviser breaking lockdown rules continued to fester, despite the aide giving a detailed account of his actions on Monday.Douglas Ross, minister for Scotland, referred to millions of people following government instructions to stay at home, while aide Dominic Cummings travelled over 260 miles to Durham in north-east England from London with family in end-March.Ross said: “I haven’t commented publicly on the situation with Dominic Cummings as I have waited to hear the full details. I welcome the statement to clarify matters, but there remain aspects of the explanation which I have trouble with. As a result I have resigned as a government Minister”.“While the intentions may have been well-meaning, the reaction to this news shows that Mr Cummings’ interpretation of the government advice was not shared by the vast majority of people who have done as the government asked”.“I have constituents who didn’t get to say goodbye to loved ones; families who could not mourn together; people who didn’t visit sick relatives because they followed the guidance of the government. I cannot in good faith tell them they were all wrong and one senior adviser to the government was right,” he wrote in his resignation letter.Attempts by Johnson and Cummings to brazen out the row were met by furious headlines, not only in the left-leaning newspapers such as The Guardian and Mirror, but also Conservative-supporting mass circulation tabloids such as the Daily Mail. Church of England bishops, who joined calls for the adviser’s resignation, said on Tuesday they had received death threats.Cummings sought to justify his movements even when he and his wife had coronavirus symptoms, but questions remained after he was provided a rare forum in Downing Street to address the press on live television on Monday.Critics say if millions had interpreted the curbs as he did and moved about, UK would have been in a far worse situation than it is today – it already has the biggest death toll in Europe with 36,914 deaths and 261,184 cases as of Monday evening.Stephen Reicher, expert on the government’s Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies, deplored the row and its impact on public trust in official advice to deal with the pandemic.He told Sky News: “One of the central messages that we gave to Government, one of the central points that we made was that the way we have gotten through this pandemic to date is by acting together, by thinking in terms of ‘we’, of what’s good for the community”.“Millions of people up and down the country have done precisely that in very difficult circumstances, agonising circumstances around their families and thought ‘What is good for us as a community?’ I think the real problem here is that not simply in what Cummings did but in the messaging that the Prime Minister put out. The lesson was, forget about the ‘we’, it’s about ‘I’.”“Now, thank God, the public at large didn’t take that attitude, the public at large, as I say, made those major sacrifices, but it threatens to undermine that sense of community if a figure as prominent as Dominic Cummings and if the Prime Minister himself starts undermining that ‘we’ message and starts talking about ‘I’, Reicher added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-minister-quits-as-row-over-pm-johnson-aide-s-lockdown-drive-continues/story-2FDtwDnSEyC39KqAdxrZwK.html
26-05-2020||World||World Covid-19 cases top 5.5 million, over two-thirds in Europe, US||More than 5.5 million cases of the new coronavirus have been officially declared in the world, more than two-thirds of them in Europe and the United States, according to a tally compiled by AFP from official sources as of 0740 GMT on Tuesday.At least 5,505,307 infections including 346,188 deaths have been recorded, notably in Europe, the hardest-hit continent with 2,047,401 cases and 172,824 deaths, and the United States with 1,662,768 cases and 98,223 deaths. The number of declared cases in the world has doubled in a month, and more than one million new cases of Covid-19 have been registered in the last 11 days.The number of diagnosed cases however reflects only a fraction of the actual number of infections as many countries test only serious cases or lack testing capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/world-covid-19-cases-top-5-5-million-over-two-thirds-in-europe-us/story-oAWQJVKm21XJksx3qYcrtL.html
26-05-2020||World||Saudi Arabia to ease Covid-19 lockdown from May 28 with local travel, mass prayers||Saudi Arabia plans to pare back its coronavirus lockdown restrictions this week as it seeks to revive an economy additionally hobbled by the collapse in oil prices.The kingdom will begin a three-phase plan on May 28, state-run SPA reported Tuesday, citing the interior ministry. By the third phase, due to begin by June 21, all restrictions will be lifted to allow a return to normal. Pilgrimages to Mecca and Medina, however, as well as international flights will remain suspended as the rest of the country opens up for mass prayers and domestic travel.Saudi Arabia joins other Gulf neighbours in lifting restrictions. Dubai, a part of the United Arab Emirates, has shortened nightly curbs on movement and allowed businesses such as gyms and cinemas to reopen. Kuwait also announced it won’t renew its 24-hour curfew.Saudi Arabia, which gets most of its revenue from crude exports, announced a slew of austerity measures to cope with the impact of the pandemic and the fallout from the collapse in oil prices, tripling value-added tax and cutting cost-of-living allowances for government workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/saudi-arabia-to-ease-covid-19-lockdown-from-may-28-with-local-travel-mass-prayers/story-ibFU1Sjf2JiKWnHvt491GP.html
26-05-2020||World||China’s virus diplomacy: global saviour or ‘Wolf Warrior’?||China has played two roles in the global battle against the coronavirus: a benevolent donor of aid, filling the US void, and combative superpower ready to bite back at critics.Gone are the days of low-profile diplomacy promoted by late leader Deng Xiaoping, who said Beijing should “hide your strength, bide your time”.Attitudes have changed under President Xi Jinping, who has pushed an increasingly confident policy abroad since taking office in 2012.The country has become even more assertive this year in the face of attacks over its handling of the pandemic, which started on its shores in December.Beijing has sent planeloads of medical equipment abroad, pledged $2 billion in international aid to combat COVID-19 and offered to make its potential vaccine available to all.The strategy is in line with China’s use of its economic might to win friends on the world stage, with Xi’s signature Belt and Road global infrastructure programme also expanding its influence abroad.“Chinese aid, like other countries, is part of its soft power and also has commercial and political aims,” Jocelyn Chey, a former Australian diplomat and visiting professor at the University of Sydney, told AFP.The policy has been successful in China’s battle for influence with self-ruled Taiwan and in securing support against criticism of its treatment of Muslim minorities in far-western Xinjiang, Chey said.But mixed with its generosity is a new-found readiness to tussle with geopolitical adversaries including the United States, Australia and France.It’s a risky PR battle.‘Wolf Warrior’Foreign minister Wang Yi summed up China’s attitude in a press conference on Sunday.“We never pick a fight or bully others, but at the same time, we have principles and guts,” he said. “We will surely fight back against any malicious slander to defend national honour and dignity.”Since last year Beijing has unleashed a pack of “Wolf Warrior” diplomats who use Twitter to vociferously defend and promote the Communist-led country -- while ignoring the irony that the platform is banned in mainland China.The monicker comes from the title of a blockbuster Chinese film about a Rambo-like special forces soldier who takes on foreign mercenaries.A prominent member of the “wolf” pack, foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian has raised eyebrows by promoting conspiracy theories that the US army may have brought the virus to China.President Donald Trump has also provided easy fodder for nationalist sentiment in China by calling the pandemic the “Chinese virus” and pushing ideas that it originated in a lab in the city of Wuhan.Relations between the two countries were already wounded by a bruising trade war, and Wang has warned that some US political forces are pushing them “to the brink of a new Cold War”.“After Trump came to power, China has been unable to evade the repressive policies he has adopted against China and can no longer keep its low profile,” Hua Po, a Beijing-based independent political commentator, told AFP.‘Uphill battle’The United States has not been the only target of Beijing’s ire.In Australia, the Chinese ambassador threatened a consumer boycott of the country’s products after Canberra called for an independent investigation into the origins and spread of the coronavirus.China’s ambassador to Paris was summoned by the French foreign ministry last month over a message on the embassy’s website that criticised the Western response to the pandemic.The European Union’s foreign policy chief, Josep Borrell, said Monday that the 27-nation bloc must adopt a “more robust” strategy against the Asian giant.“China is getting more powerful and assertive and its rise is impressive and triggers respect, but also many questions and fears,” Borrell said in a speech to German ambassadors.Steve Tsang, director of the China Institute at the School of Oriental and African Studies in London, said Beijing’s foreign policy is driven first by the interests of the ruling Communist Party and its priority to stay in power, especially with the Covid-19 crisis testing faith in authorities.“The aggressive propaganda and the ‘wolf-warrior diplomacy’ have turned many in the West against China, but this is just a price to be paid for a much more important objective of China’s policy,” Tsang said.While it might prove popular at home, winning friends on the international stage could be harder.Zhiqun Zhu, political science professor at Bucknell University in Pennsylvania, said China “faces an uphill battle to improve its international image”.“I don’t think China has won the PR battle since China’s soft power is weak and its narrative is largely shrugged off as official propaganda,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-s-virus-diplomacy-global-saviour-or-wolf-warrior/story-Qc0Jdc1tEGUoFWHRWhdFzK.html
26-05-2020||World||Hong Kong leader says security law not a threat to freedoms||Hong Kong’s leader said Tuesday that national security legislation proposed by China’s legislature will not threaten the semi-autonomous territory’s civil rights, despite widespread criticism of the move as an encroachment on freedom of speech and assembly.The city’s chief executive, Carrie Lam, told reporters that there was “no need for us to worry” over the move being considered by China’s ceremonial National People’s Congress.“Hong Kong has proven that we uphold and preserve those values,” Lam said. “Hong Kong needs this piece of legislation for the bigger benefit of the great majority of Hong Kong people.”Lam also said that transit service would resume at Hong Kong’s international airport on June 1, but that foreigners would still be banned from entering the city as part of measures to prevent a new wave of coronavirus infections.The move by China to pass the legislation signals the central government’s determination to take greater control of Hong Kong after months of pro-democracy protests last year. Beijing has appointed new representatives in Hong Kong who follow the hard line laid down by Chinese President Xi Jinping, who is also the head of the ruling Communist Party.The US has sharply criticized the legislation and threatened to withdraw preferential trade status for Hong Kong.Some “foreign politicians” have “expressed untrue opinions” about the plan to impose the law on Hong Kong, Lam said, without giving details.She repeated claims that the law would only target “a minority,” citing concerns about terrorism and subversion.Such a move has long been under consideration and was hastened by last year’s street protests in the former British colony, which was returned to Chinese rule in 1997. Beijing promised that the territory could retain its own relatively liberal civil, legal and economic systems that contrast starkly with the much more centrally controlled and authoritarian system in mainland China.Hong Kong’s government is bound by Article 23 of the Basic Law — its mini-constitution — to enact laws to prohibit any act of treason, secession, sedition or subversion against China. It proposed legislation to do so in 2003, but withdrew it after hundreds of thousands of people came out to protest.Beijing has increasingly pushed for measures such as punishment for disrespecting the Chinese national flag or anthem — as often seen at soccer games — along with a boost to pro-China patriotic-themed education in schools. However, opposition in Hong Kong’s Legislative Council makes it unlikely a national security bill could pass at the local level, prompting Beijing to utilize what some describe as dubious legal grounds to force the measures through at the national level.The Chinese public is largely seen as backing Xi’s tough approach to foreign policy challenges, including criticism from the US, Australia and others. Xi has made an unswerving line on national interests a key signature of his rule since taking over leadership of the ruling party in 2012.Abroad, however, that policy has further bolstered concerns about China’s intentions to dominate markets and assert its influence in the Asia-Pacific region. That may ultimately add to Xi’s difficulties in reviving economic growth and jobs at a time when global markets are partly shut due to the coronavirus pandemic and skepticism toward China runs high.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-leader-says-security-law-not-a-threat-to-freedoms/story-4IKSbuLGeueg3B9nq9NTzN.html
26-05-2020||World||Germany wants to end travel warning for 31 European countries: Report||The German government wants to end a travel warning for tourist trips to 31 European countries from June 15 if the coronavirus situation allows, magazine Focus on Tuesday cited dpa news agency as reporting.It said a paper on European tourism that may be agreed by the cabinet on Wednesday showed the government wanted to allow travel to the 26 other European Union nations and Britain as well as the four non-EU countries in the Schengen passport-free zone - Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland.On May 18, Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said Germany was hoping to ease a travel warning on all tourist trips abroad that is in place until June 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-wants-to-end-travel-warning-for-31-european-countries-report/story-WFLjtYRKQNErgNBwPbBNIO.html
26-05-2020||World||Novavax latest to start human trial of Covid-19 vaccine: How is it different?||A US biotechnology company has become the latest to announce that it has started human trials of a vaccine for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and hopes to release a proven one this year.Nearly dozen experimental vaccines are in early stages of testing or poised to start, mostly in China, the US and Europe for Covid-19, which has infected more than 5.49million people worldwide and killed 346,232.Most of the shots in the pipeline aim to train the immune system to recognise the “spike” protein that studs the coronavirus’ outer surface, priming the body to react if it ever encountered the real infection.Some candidates are made using just the genetic code for that protein, and others use a harmless virus to deliver the protein-producing information. Still other vaccine candidates are more old-fashioned, made with the killed whole virus.As of May 24, there were at least 10 vaccines in human trials, according to the World Health Organization (WHO).CanSino from China has non-replicating viral vector vaccine and there are inactivated vaccines from Sinovac, Wuhan Institute of Biological Products and Beijing Institute of Biological Products.There’s a non-replicating viral vector vaccine from Oxford University and AstraZeneca (UK) and protein subunit vaccine from Novavax (US). RNA vaccine from Moderna and BioNTech and Pfizer (Germany/USA) and DNA vaccine from Inovio are also among those in the list.Novavax human trialDr Gregory Glenn said, Novavax’s research chief, said the company has begun the first phase of the trial in which 131 volunteers in the cities of Melbourne and Brisbane will test the safety of the vaccine and look for early signs of the vaccine’s effectiveness.“We are in parallel making doses, making vaccine in anticipation that we’ll be able to show it’s working and be able to start deploying it by the end of this year,” Glenn told a virtual press conference.‘Subunit’ vaccineThe Maryland-based Novavax is one of such several biotech companies racing to develop a vaccine against Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. Two other companies, Moderna and BioNTech, in a partnership with Pfizer, have already begun clinical trials of Covid-19 vaccines.However, they are developing mRNA vaccines, a new type of vaccine that’s still unproven. There are several mRNA vaccine candidates but none have yet been approved to go to market. Those vaccines use mRNA to stimulate the body to produce copies of the coronaviruses “spike protein” in order to stimulate an immune response.Novavax is developing a “subunit” vaccine, which sends copies of the virus’ spike protein directly into the body to stimulate an immune response. This is an established vaccine technology currently already being used against diseases such as HPV, Hepatitis B and shingles.Novavax adds another new kind to that list, what’s called a recombinant vaccine. Novavax used genetic engineering to grow harmless copies of the coronavirus spike protein in giant vats of insect cells in a laboratory. Scientists extracted and purified the protein, and packaged it into virus-sized nanoparticles.The late-stage biotechnology company in April said it identified the candidate, NVX-CoV2373, with which it planned to use its Matrix-M adjuvant to enhance immune responses.Adjuvants are mainly used to make vaccines induce a strong immune response, including through the greater production of antibodies, and provide longer-lasting protection against viral and bacterial infection.Novavax said it expects preliminary immunogenicity and safety results from the trial in July.Novavax said the Phase 2 portion of the trial will be conducted in several countries, including the United States after upon the successful completion of Phase 1. It added that the Phase 2 trial will assess immunity, safety and Covid-19 reduction in a broader age range.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/novavax-latest-to-start-human-trial-of-covid-19-vaccine-how-is-it-different/story-A4mrMJGd5cHNH0iCaflLBN.html
26-05-2020||World||Covid-19 cracking Germany’s defense against unemployment surge||Two months after Germany’s economy minister vowed to do everything so “no job” would be lost to the pandemic, unemployment has already risen more than during the entire 2008/2009 financial crisis.The emerging strains in Europe’s largest labor market show that even countries with well-established safety nets struggle to shield workers. State-wage support couldn’t prevent a jump in unemployment of 373,000 in April. And while a large part of that can be explained by people registering as jobless instead of entering training programs, economists are worrying about more trouble ahead.A key risk is that temporary furloughs through the famous Kurzarbeit can only delay some job losses. With the economy set to hurt for a long time, many businesses remain at risk and the coronavirus is testing the limits of a policy relying on a quick rebound. A rise in unemployment puts the economy in a potential vicious cycle: Weaker consumer demand, a further delay to the recovery and another blow to businesses such as retailers and restaurants.“Short-time work subsidies are only suitable for temporarily bridging lost work and earnings,” said Martin Mueller, an economist who focuses on the German labor market at the state-owned KfW bank. “If the restrictions last too long, many short-time workers are likely to become unemployed.”State-wage support in Germany dates back to 1910 and has historically focused on preserving manufacturing jobs. In 1924, a quarter of the workforce was enrolled in a program similar to today’s.While the scheme proved successful a decade ago when credit dried up and factories suffered from collapsing orders, a broad shutdown of public life to prevent the spread of Covid-19 has primarily hit services.Restaurants, hotels, and retail stores have born the brunt of more than two months of restrictions.Restaurant chain Vapiano filed for insolvency in early April, and athletic wear shop Runners Point, a subsidiary of Foot Locker, is closing down. A study by research firm Crif Buergel estimates as many as 29,000 companies will go out of business this year.Almost one in five companies surveyed by the Ifo Institute decided to reduce staff in April. At least half of all restaurants and hotels indicated they slashed jobs.“No healthy company should go bankrupt because of corona and no job should be lost.”-- German Economy Minister Peter Altmaier on March 13KfW’s Mueller estimates unemployment will rise to about 3 million in the course of 2020, an increase of some 800,000 from last year’s trough. The IAB research arm of the labor agency has a similar forecast. It also predicts a decline in the number of employed people by about 1 million.That includes hundreds of thousands of so-called “mini jobbers”: part-time workers who are particularly prevalent in services, receive a monthly salary of no more than 450 euros ($490), and aren’t eligible for the reduced-work subsidies. They are also unlikely to appear in official jobless figures -- many are pensioners, students, or homemakers who don’t usually register as unemployed.Germany, where some 6 million workers received state-wage support in April, isn’t the only country where furlough schemes appear to be showing cracks.In Austria, a hastily revamped program failed to prevent unemployment in sectors more used to hiring and firing and to seasonal employment, according to Helmut Mahringer, a labor-market economist at research institute Wifo. Joblessness has surged by 200,000 since the end of February, with 1.3 million workers on state-wage support.In Spain, close to 1 million employees -- about a quarter of those temporarily suspended from their jobs -- are still waiting for their payments, according to a survey.Last month, Germany raised the amount it pays workers whose hours have been cut by more than half. Services-sector union Ver.di complained that those increases don’t kick in until four months into furlough, and don’t address the struggles of low-income or part-time staff.That won’t prevent businesses from using the scheme, according to Enzo Weber, who leads IAB’s forecast and economic analysis division.“Companies have so far made much greater use of short-time work policies than layoffs,” he said in a phone interview. But “we’re seeing the worst economic shock since World War II, and it’s clear that despite short-time work policies it will lead to a significant number of dismissals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-cracking-germany-s-defense-against-unemployment-surge/story-UGkZeW4ssMYx7wE9oYZu3N.html
26-05-2020||World||Masks too dangerous for children under 2, says Japan pediatric association||Children under the age of two shouldn’t wear masks because they can make breathing difficult and increase the risk of choking, a Japan medical group said, launching an urgent appeal to parents as the country reopens from the coronavirus crisis.Prime Minister Shinzo Abe lifted a state of emergency for Tokyo and four remaining areas on Monday after the number of infections fell across Japan, but warned that it could be reimposed if the virus started spreading again.To prevent the virus spread, health experts worldwide are recommending people wear masks when it is difficult to maintain social distancing as countries loosen restrictions following coronavirus shutdowns.But the Japan Pediatric Association has warned parents that masks are too risky for infants.“Masks can make breathing difficult because infants have narrow air passages,” which increases the burden on their hearts, the association said, adding that masks also raise the risk of heat stroke for them.“Let’s stop the use of masks for children under 2-years-old,” the association said in a notice on its website.It said that so far there were very few serious coronavirus cases among children and that most kids became infected from family members, with almost no outbreaks at schools or day care facilities.The US Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and the American Academy of Pediatrics also say children under the age of two should not wear cloth face coverings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/masks-too-dangerous-for-children-under-2-says-japan-pediatric-association/story-eBHb7t1lbnIPNbYegxoIeN.html
26-05-2020||World||Cyclone Amphan shows cost of delaying $38 billion Bangladesh delta plan||Mizanur Rahman recalls the last time a major tropical storm hit Bangladesh, when Cyclone Sidr killed more than 3,000 people in 2007. In the aftermath of the destruction, he watched the dead body of a woman being washed ashore by the tide.“That image doesn’t go away. It keeps coming back,” Rahman, a bungalow caretaker, said in the coastal town of Patuakali in Bangladesh’s huge river delta. The district was devastated by the 2007 storm and has been hit by a series of cyclones since, the latest being Amphan, which tore into the region last week, killing about 100 people in Bangladesh and India and causing more than $13 billion in damage.In an effort to strengthen its climate resilience, the Bangladesh government in 2018 approved Delta Plan 2100, an eight-decade program combining water and land management and development. The first phase requires about $38 billion by 2030 to implement 80 projects, including 65 tied to infrastructure.Raising that money was never going to be easy, but now the program to protect the 37 million people who live in the delta is in limbo -- hit first by the coronavirus and then by the damage from Amphan. Bangladesh evacuated 2.4 million people from coastal districts, State Minister for Disaster Management Enamur Rahman said in Dhaka on May 19, the day before the storm hit.“Fundraising is a big challenge,” said Shamsul Alam, a senior secretary of the Bangladesh Planning Commission and lead author of the Delta Plan. “The coronavirus came as a huge, sudden shock. We have to readjust in the short run -- maybe for three to four budgets. We have to think carefully how we can adjust to the new situation.”If nothing is done by 2050, climate change could make another 14% of the country “extremely vulnerable” to floods and displace some 35 million people from the coastal districts. The combined effects of climate change could cost the country as much as 2% of gross domestic product per year.Dutch HelpA Dutch consortium led by consultancy Twynstra helped develop the Delta Plan, most of which is in the world’s most-populated river delta, where the waters of the Ganges, the Brahmaputra and the Meghna reach the Bay of Bengal. Almost a third of the first-phase budget is earmarked for 23 coastal projects to prevent flooding, including land reclamation and building islands and polders.Bangladesh, a nation of more than 160 million people, currently invests 0.8% of GDP in water-related projects and would have to raise that to about 2.5% by 2030 to implement the projects with minimum financing, Alam said.“The coronavirus is one truth we’re facing now and climate change is another,” he said. “We need to handle these two issues in a combined way. We will emphasize our health services and go with universal health coverage, and at the same time, we need safe drinking water for health and good sanitation. These issues are interrelated.”The country has more than 35,000 confirmed cases of Covid-19 and already borrowed $950 million from lenders, including $600 million from the Asian Development Bank, to tackle the virus. Bangladesh increased its social protection and economic stimulus package to 1 trillion taka, or 3.6% of the country’s GDP.“The government will have to prioritize the immediate response and recovery effort over longer-term development projects,” said Joseph Parkes, Asia analyst at global risk research company Verisk Maplecroft. “We expect donors and the government to back the Delta Plan over the long run, even if the immediate focus shifts to the public-health crisis.”Bangladesh’s rapid economic growth in the past two decades, fueled by an expanding garment trade and a burgeoning information-technology industry, has helped the country improve its resilience and gave momentum to the Delta Plan.Lives LostWhen Cyclone Sidr hit in 2007, it was the strongest storm to make landfall in Bangladesh, causing damage and losses of as much as $1.7 billion, but its death toll was about 1% of the more than 300,000 lives lost in the Bhola Cyclone of 1970, the deadliest in the nation’s history.Still, Amphan shows the nation’s continued vulnerability to rising sea levels if it doesn’t improve its defenses. Storm surges from cyclones can inundate land and water supplies, causing extensive damage to livelihoods in rural areas, where about 85% of the poor live. Agriculture and fishing account for almost half the jobs in the country and support more than 70% of the population, according to the ADB.Days after the storm passed, Amir Hossain, a resident of the island of Char Montaz in the Bay of Bengal, stood on an embankment built more than a decade ago to protect the fishing district. “The tide was still two feet higher than normal,” Hossain said on May 25 as the water buffeted the sea defenses. “Without the dike, we would have been washed away.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cyclone-amphan-shows-cost-of-delaying-38-billion-bangladesh-delta-plan/story-SZ40tAZMFvyO33L1vOCwRN.html
26-05-2020||World||Covid-19 cases rising, plan to reimpose strict lockdown after Eid: Top Pakistan official||Pakistan’s key figure in fight against the coronavirus pandemic has warned the people of the country to take precautionary measures “otherwise this crisis could turn into a huge tragedy”.Special Assistant to the Prime Minister on Health Services, Dr Zafar Mirza, has said that Pakistan’s Covid-19 cases and deaths were on the rise and “strict lockdowns” could be reimposed across the country if the trajectory continued.“As we promised when we eased the lockdown, if this trend continues we may reimpose strict lockdowns after Eid,” Dr Mirza said while speaking to the media in Islamabad on Monday. He lamented that the government’s instructions and Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to control the spread of the virus were not being followed.The warning comes weeks after Pakistan had started phase-wise easing of the nationwide lockdown earlier this month.Dr Mirza observed that apparently there was perception that threat of the coronavirus was over. “Unfortunately, there is now this thinking among us that this disease (Covid-19) was only here till Eid and that somehow it’ll disappear after Eid. This is a huge misunderstanding,” he said.Pakistan’s coronavirus cases on Monday reached 56,349 with 1,748 new patients while the death toll climbed to 1,167 after 34 people lost their lives in the last 24 hours (bwteeen Sunday and Monday).The Ministry of National Health Services reported that 22,491 cases were diagnosed in Sindh, 20,077 in Punjab, 7,905 in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa, 3,407 in Balochistan, 1,641 in Islamabad, 619 in Gilgit-Baltistan and 209 in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir.The authorities also had conducted 4,83,656 tests in the country, including 10,049 on Sunday.The trajectory showed that the number was steadily going up and it was feared that it would further curve up in the wake of easing of lockdown before Eid which was observed on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-cases-rising-plan-to-reimpose-strict-lockdown-after-eid-top-pakistan-official/story-61ubcgrQjK3NSwGLbMptnJ.html
26-05-2020||World||‘Get ready’: WHO warns of ‘second peak’ in areas where Covid-19 declining||Countries where coronavirus infections are declining could still face an “immediate second peak” if they let up too soon on measures to halt the outbreak, the World Health Organization said on Monday.The world is still in the middle of the first wave of the coronavirus outbreak, WHO emergencies head Dr Mike Ryan told an online briefing, noting that while cases are declining in many countries they are still increasing in Central and South America, South Asia and Africa.Ryan said epidemics often come in waves, which means that outbreaks could come back later this year in places where the first wave has subsided. There was also a chance that infection rates could rise again more quickly if measures to halt the first wave were lifted too soon.“When we speak about a second wave classically what we often mean is there will be a first wave of the disease by itself, and then it recurs months later. And that may be a reality for many countries in a number of months’ time,” Ryan said.“But we need also to be cognizant of the fact that the disease can jump up at any time. We cannot make assumptions that just because the disease is on the way down now it is going to keep going down and we are get a number of months to get ready for a second wave. We may get a second peak in this wave.”He said countries in Europe and North America should “continue to put in place the public health and social measures, the surveillance measures, the testing measures and a comprehensive strategy to ensure that we continue on a downwards trajectory and we don’t have an immediate second peak.”Many European countries and US states have taken steps in recent weeks to lift lockdown measures that curbed the spread of the disease but caused severe harm to economies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/get-ready-who-warns-of-second-peak-in-areas-where-covid-19-declining/story-Ea0agdxTW2HRwXnKFaL2PN.html
26-05-2020||World||US company trials coronavirus vaccine in Australia||A US biotechnology company announced on Tuesday the start of human trials in Australia of a vaccine for the coronarvirus with hopes of releasing a proven vaccine this year.Novavax has begun the first phase of the trial in which 131 volunteers in the cities of Melbourne and Brisbane will test the safety of the vaccine and look for early signs of the vaccine’s effectiveness, the company’s research chief Dr. Gregory Glenn said.“We are in parallel making doses, making vaccine in anticipation that we’ll be able to show it’s working and be able to start deploying it by the end of this year,” Glenn told a virtual press conference in Melbourne from Novavax’ headquarters in Maryland.About a dozen experimental vaccines are in early stages of testing or poised to start, mostly in China, the US and Europe. It’s not clear that any of the candidates ultimately will prove safe and effective. But many work in different ways, and are made with different technologies, increasing the odds that at least one approach might succeed.Most of the shots in the pipeline aim to train the immune system to recognize the “spike” protein that studs the coronavirus’ outer surface, priming the body to react if it ever encountered the real infection. Some candidates are made using just the genetic code for that protein, and others use a harmless virus to deliver the protein-producing information. Still other vaccine candidates are more old-fashioned, made with the killed whole virus.Novavax adds another new kind to that list, what’s called a recombinant vaccine. Novavax used genetic engineering to grow harmless copies of the coronavirus spike protein in giant vats of insect cells in a laboratory. Scientists extracted and purified the protein, and packaged it into virus-sized nanoparticles.“The way we make a vaccine is we never touch the virus,” Novavax told The Associated Press last month. But ultimately, “it looks just like a virus to the immune system.” It’s the same process that Novavax used to create a nanoparticle flu vaccine that recently passed late-stage testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-company-trials-coronavirus-vaccine-in-australia/story-s6G2ZKKcMfOmjUXUYhDSdL.html
26-05-2020||World||In Bolsonaro’s Brazil, everyone else is to blame for virus||With Brazil emerging as one of the world’s most infected countries, President Jair Bolsonaro is deflecting all responsibility for the coronavirus crisis, casting blame on mayors, governors, an outgoing health minister and the media.By contrast, he portrays himself as a clear-eyed crusader willing to defend an unpopular idea — that shutting down the economy to control COVID-19 will ultimately cause more suffering than allowing the disease to run its course. The refusal of governors to fall into line with his decree allowing gyms to open, he said, verged on authoritarianism.Asked about Brazil’s death toll surpassing China’s, he feigned impotence: “I don’t work miracles. What do you want me to do?” Confronted with a travel ban imposed on Brazil by the US because of widespread COVID-19, one of his advisers called it press hysteria.Since the outbreak started, the Brazilian leader has avoided acknowledging the potential effects of his actions, particularly in undermining local leaders’ stay-at-home recommendations. A rare exception came in mid-April, as Bolsonaro appointed a new health minister tasked with sparing the economy from the coronavirus.“Reopening commerce is a risk I run because, if it (the virus) gets worse, then it lands in my lap,” he said.Less than two weeks later, as Brazil’s death toll blew past 5,000, he told reporters, “You’re not going to put on my lap this count that isn’t mine.” Almost a month on, the death toll in the country of 211 million has more than quadrupled, to 22,666, and continues to accelerate.The Brazilian Supreme Court determined that states and cities have jurisdiction to impose isolation measures. So Bolsonaro on May 7 walked purposefully across the capital’s Three Powers Plaza to the top court, a tight cluster of ministers and business leaders in tow, and demanded local restrictions be tempered.“Some states went too far in their restrictive measures, and the consequences are knocking on our door,” he said, adding that tens of millions of Brazilians have lost their income. He has repeatedly singled out some local leaders by name.When governors defied Bolsonaro’s subsequent decree that gyms, barbershops and beauty salons be allowed to operate as essential services, he accused them of undermining the rule of law and suggested the move would invite “undesirable authoritarianism to emerge in Brazil.” On Saturday night, Bolsonaro ventured into the capital of Brasilia to lead by example, this time eating a hot dog bought from a street vendor. Video he posted to Facebook showed supporters snapping selfies and calling him by his nickname — “Myth!” — while those in self-quarantine in overlooking apartments banged pots and pans in protest.A May 17-18 poll by XP/Ipespe found 58 per cent of those surveyed rated Bolsonaro’s pandemic response as bad or terrible, and only 21 per cent as good or excellent. Governors fared more than twice as well in both counts. The poll had a margin of error of 3.2 percentage points.Latin America’s largest nation has confirmed 363,000 COVID-19 cases, more than any nation except the US, and experts say that figure is a significant undercount due to insufficient testing. The strain on Brazil’s underfunded hospitals has pushed them to the brink of collapse in multiple states and prevents some patients from getting treatment.Havoc and heartache are unfolding beneath a void of leadership, according to Miguel Lago, executive director of Brazil’s Institute for Health Policy Studies, which advises public health officials. Two health ministers have left office during the pandemic, making Brazil the world’s only nation that can claim such distinction, he said.Brazil is “completely incapable of dealing with and responding to this crisis as this crisis should be responded to — with complete leadership, clear messages, political stability and unity,” Lago said.“That’s not the case here. Basically, what we’re seeing is a complete lack of seriousness and competence.” The far-right leader fired his first health minister, Luiz Henrique Mandetta, for supporting governors’ restrictions. In his departing address, Mandetta referred to Bolsonaro in what he later confirmed to magazine Época was an allusion to the Albert Camus book “The Plague.” The novel about a diseased city includes a passage that says those who did not believe in the plague were first to die because they took no precautions.Bolsonaro’s second minister, Nelson Teich, resigned about a month later after openly disagreeing with Bolsonaro over chloroquine, the predecessor of the anti-malarial often touted by US President Donald Trump as viable treatment. Bolsonaro in his 17-month tenure has often expressed open admiration for Trump and the US.Weeks after praising chloroquine and directing the Army to ramp up production, Bolsonaro admitted last week that there is no scientific evidence of its effectiveness, but said the nation is “at war,” and it is better to fight and lose than not fight at all. The country still has only an interim health minister: a general with no health experience whatsoever before April.In the capital on Sunday, pro-Bolsonaro supporters staged a small demonstration in front of the presidential palace, as they have for several weeks. Bolsonaro joined and once again lifted children in his arms.He shared a video from a helicopter flyover of the demonstration that revealed a sparsely occupied plaza. There were perhaps 1,000 people in attendance, in a city of 3 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-bolsonaro-s-brazil-everyone-else-is-to-blame-for-virus/story-ufsuq9Oa7Hx7WpqupIzBAJ.html
26-05-2020||World||Donald Trump threatens to move the GOP convention out of Charlotte due to Covid-19 restrictions||US President Donald Trump on Monday threatened to move the Republican convention out of Charlotte in North Carolina if its Democratic Governor did not remove the restrictions on social distancing measures which are in force due to coronavirus pandemic.The four-day Republican National Convention in Charlotte is scheduled to be held from August 14 to August 27 and it is here that President Trump would officially be nominated by the Republican Party for his re-election for the presidential elections on November 3.However, the once-in-a four-year convention is right now in jeopardy or expected to lose its shine because of the social distancing measures being enforced in the State by North Carolina Governor Roy Cooper. The convention attracts hundreds and thousands of Trump supporters and Republican leaders from across the country wherein they pack into a giant indoor stadium for four days. “I love the Great State of North Carolina, so much so that I insisted on having the Republican National Convention in Charlotte at the end of August. Unfortunately, Democrat Governor, Roy Cooper is still in Shutdown mood & unable to guarantee that by August we will be allowed…made by many thousands of enthusiastic Republicans, and others, to head to beautiful North Carolina in August,” Trump said in a tweet.“They must be immediately given an answer by the Governor as to whether or not the space will be allowed to be fully occupied. If not, we will be reluctantly forced... to find, with all of the jobs and economic development it brings, another Republican National Convention site. This is not something I want to do,” Trump said. Immediately thereafter, Cooper tweeted that State health officials are working with the Republican National Committee and will review its plans as they make decisions about how to hold the convention in Charlotte. “North Carolina is relying on data and science to protect our State’s public health and safety,” Cooper said. The US has so far witnessed over 98,000 deaths due to coronavirus that has infected over 1.69 million people, according to Johns Hopkins University. PTI LKJ RUP RUP||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-threatens-to-move-the-gop-convention-out-of-charlotte-due-to-covid-19-restrictions/story-BnC9Ggur0JOhMhMx3XMiAK.html
26-05-2020||World||China to evacuate citizens from India amid pandemic, rising border tension||China is planning to evacuate its citizens from India amid the spreading Covid-19 pandemic in the country, a notice issued by the Chinese embassy in New Delhi said on Monday.The notice, published on the embassy website said that students, tourists and businessmen who have been stranded in India will be allowed to fly back to China on special flights.The number of Chinese citizens currently studying or staying and working in India wasn’t immediately available.Beijing has asked its citizens willing to return to China to register by the morning of May 27.Also Watch | ‘We will deal...’: Army chief on India, China soldiers’ fight in Ladakh, Sikkim It includes Chinese citizens who are in India to practice yoga or had come to India for the Buddhist religious circuit pilgrimage.It did not specify when or from where the special flights would take off.The evacuation notice also comes in the backdrop of rising tension between India and China along the disputed boundary between the two countries.The notice put out in Mandarin on Monday morning said those taking the flights will have to pay for the tickets and for their 14-day quarantine once they land in China.“Under the unified arrangement of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and relevant departments, the Chinese embassy and Consulates in India will assist students, tourists, and temporary businessmen in India who have difficulties and are in urgent need of returning home to take temporary flights back to China,” the notice said.The notice expressly forbade those who have been diagnosed with or suspected to have Covid-19 or those who had fever and cough symptoms for 14 days not to take the flights.Close contacts of Covid-19 patients or whose body temperature exceeds 37.3 degrees centigrade will also not be allowed to board.The applicants have been warned to not hide their medical history.“Once a passenger who conceals his illness and contact history or finds that he has taken antipyretics and other inhibitory drugs during quarantine inspection is found, he will be held liable for the crime of endangering public safety,” the notice said.India was among the countries to evacuate more than 700 citizens and foreign nationals from the central Chinese province of Hubei, worst-hit by the Covid-19 outbreak, and its capital, Wuhan, where the coronavirus emerged late last year in February.The second batch of evacuation in late February had been delayed after the Chinese authorities are said to have delayed the required clearances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-to-evacuate-citizens-from-india-amid-pandemic-rising-border-tension/story-AIyBcsob97s6FadjUNyvsM.html
26-05-2020||India||Police brutality led to 12 deaths: NGO||Public police beatings for alleged violations of restrictions caused the deaths of 12 people in various parts of the country in the first five weeks of the national lockdown, according to a report by the non-government organisation (NGO) Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI) released on Tuesday.Three of the 12 deaths were suicides committed by the victims because they couldn’t stand the humiliation of the public beatings,said the study, which tracked such deaths from March 25 to April 30, based on media reports. Out of the 12 deaths, three each were reported from Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh. Madhya Pradesh reported two deaths ; One death each took place in Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Punjab. CHRI identified the 12 people as Luvkush, Mohammad Rizwan, Roshan Lal (UP), Bansi Kushwaha and Tibu Meda (MP), Shaikh Mohammed Ghouse, Veerabhadraiah, Peddada Srinivas Rao (AP), Sagir Jamil Khan (Maharashtra), A Abdul Rahim (TN), Lal Swami (WB) and Bhupinder Singh (Punjab).Bhupinder Singh, Peddada Srinivasa Rao and Roshan Lal committed suicide. Three persons who were arrested-- two of them on charges unrelated to the violation of lockdown restrictions -- also died in police custody during the lockdown. The three were from Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Maharashtra. CHRI has sent a petition to the National Human Rights Commission (NHRI) to investigate these 15 deaths.CHRI called for an independent inquiry into the deaths so that the police are held accountable for use of excessive force in enforcing the lockdown. CHRI believes the NHRC will investigate the alleged fairly and effectively to fix accountability, Devika Prasad, program head of police reforms at CHR,said.“The police in India continues to function with the colonial outlook of protecting the state/ regime in power from the people. Hence, constitution and rule of law take the backseat and the police wield their lathi at the slightest provocation. Moreover, the police is viewing the lockdown and its implementation as a law and order problem and not as a public health necessity,” said senior resident fellow at the Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy, Alok Prasanna Kumar. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-brutality-led-to-12-deaths-ngo/story-CCj4QPlfg7VF61x0TIvhKI.html
26-05-2020||India||CBSE exams: Boarding school kids to face travel hurdle||NEW DELHI The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) is increasing the number of exam centres from 3,000 to 13,000 to make sure the students who sit for their class X and XII board exams get the centre of their choice, but there is one section of students that may still have to travel hundreds of miles before reaching the venue – those studying in residential schools.As the government announced the lockdown to prevent the spread of COVID-19, thousands of students who study in boarding schools across the country returned home. Now, as the number of coronavirus cases continues to rise, these students and their parent and guardians are in a dilemma . CBSE has said students of boarding schools will appear for the class X and class XII exams in their respective schools. That means some will travel hundreds of miles to take these tests. And schools have to make quarantine arrangements once the students come back to the campus .Significantly, 661 residential schools, the Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas, are run by the HRD ministry itself. Most of these schools are situated in rural areas. Under the present norms, many class 12 students of these and other schools will be forced to undertake such long winding trips from June 15 to be eligible to sit for exams which begin on July 1. The ordeal could prove tougher for students who will have to sit immediately for their NEET or JEE exams a week later. When contacted, a senior CBSE official said that the board has received representations from different schools and is looking into all of them.A senior HRD ministry official added that “the ministry and CBSE are aware of the issues and attempts will be made to provide solutions.” “If students come all the way they will have to quarantine, which means they will have to stay minimum fifteen days before the exam. Coming all the way is difficult and even parents are under stress, they fear sending their children across. These are factors. But as far as the school is concerned, all possible arrangements can be made because they are after all our children. But we definitely need guidelines about the stay in the hostel. We are awaiting those guidelines,” said Shakuntala Jaiman, Principal of Delhi’s Colonel Satsangi’s Kiran Memorial School, which has several of students who have to appear for class 12 exam.Meanwhile, an HRD ministry official said: “MHRD and CBSE are aware of the issue and will take a decision in the interest of the students. MHRD is always committed to ensure the safety and academic welfare of the students”.Last week, HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank announced that the CBSE would be holding exams in 13,000 and not just 3,000 centers as this would help students, who would otherwise have to travel long distances.“This problem for the residential schools and their students is genuine. Young students, their parents and school authorities should not be burdened with additional anxieties during these uncertain Corona times. With vast infrastructure available to the CBSE , and since there are still 5 weeks for exams to begin, students may be given the options in their hometowns in centres nearest to their homes,” said eminent educationist and former UGC member Dr Inder Mohan Kapahy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbse-exams-boarding-school-kids-to-face-travel-hurdle/story-E94a7TwmyRRpcrKC6Mo2LJ.html
26-05-2020||India||No plan to mandate state nod for hiring workers: UP official||The Uttar Pradesh (UP) government is working on the framework of a commission that will seek to provide jobs and job security to migrant workers returning to the state, but has no plans to incorporate in its by-laws a provision that will require other states to seek its prior permission before employing people from UP.Amid the lockdown imposed to curb the coronavirus disease that left them stranded elsewhere in India without livelihoods, about 2.6 million migrant workers have already returned to UP, where the authorities plan to carry out an exercise to map their skills to help them find jobs.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday discussed the setting up of the commission at a meeting in Lucknow and told his officials to complete the skill mapping exercise in 15 days. Adityanath said a letter should be sent to all state governments to find out about more migrant workers wishing to come back to Uttar Pradesh. “The chief minister discussed the modalities for setting up the commission as well. There will be no provision requiring other states to seek UP government’s prior permission for employing our manpower. The commission is being set up to provide jobs and social security to the workers. We will also link the migrants to the government schemes to provide them houses and loans etc,” said a senior official who didn’t want to be named.On Sunday, Adityanath told journalists by a video link that the commission would work in the interest of migrant workers. “If any other state wants UP’s manpower, they cannot take them away just like that but will have to seek permission of the UP government,” he said. “The way our migrant workers were ill-treated in other states, the UP government will take their insurance and social security in its hands now. The state government will stand by them wherever they work, whether in Uttar Pradesh, other states or other countries.”Some political leaders and experts have questioned the proposal that would require other states to seek the UP government’s permission, saying it would run contrary to the right to freedom of movement of workers.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday termed the proposal “absolutely absurd.” “I think it’s unfortunate. I think people are first Indian and then they belong to their states. The decision on whether somebody goes to work from Uttar Pradesh to the rest of the country is not the chief minister’s. It is of the people of India and the people of Uttar Pradesh,” he said. Adityanath was deeply moved by the conditions of returning migrants, the official cited above said, explaining the CM’s comment. “Uttar Pradesh’s migration commission is bound to incorporate the provisions of the Centre’s Inter State Migrant Workmen Act 1979. The Centre’s Act provides for a licence to be issued to the recruitment agencies in the state from where the workers are being taken following recruitment. It also has provisions for registration of the employer in the state where the workers will be taken for employment,” said the official.The proposed migration commission can work as a welfare body and watch the interests of workers, said CB Pandey, a legal expert. “But most of the migrant workers are employed in the unorganized sector. The state government can regulate only the recruitment agencies, if any. In more than 99% of cases, no recruitment agencies are involved. A majority of workers of the unorganized sector look for jobs through their acquaintances or family members and regulating them may not be possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-plan-to-mandate-state-nod-for-hiring-workers-up-official/story-0ftsqQoVhIKz2gYFH7Ww8J.html
26-05-2020||India||Rajasthan’s Churu sizzles at 50°C||North Jaipur’s city Churu sizzled at 50 degrees Celsius on Tuesday. This was the second highest temperature recorded in the month of May in last 10 years, according to IMD Jaipur. The city had recorded 50.2 degrees Celsius on May 19, 2016, the meteorological department added.Four other towns in the state recorded temperatures over 45 degrees Celsius. Bikaner’s highest temperature was 47.4 degrees Celsius and Sriganganagar’s was 47 degrees Celicius. Highest temperatures in Kota and Jaisalmer were 46 degrees Celsius, IMD’s weather report said.The report also predicted severe heat wave in isolated places in Kota and Bundi in eastern Rajasthan and in Bikaner, Churu, Hanumangarh and Sriganganagar in western part of the state.Meanwhile, Churu has been sizzling since May 22, when the highest temperature recorded in the city was 46.6 degrees Celsius. After that, it has been increasing every day – 46.6 degrees Celsius on May 23, 47.4 degrees Celsius on May 24 and 47.5 degrees Celsius on May 25, the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-s-churu-sizzles-at-50-c/story-6EM11vO7pAnAKjbYbRafXO.html
26-05-2020||India||Rajasthan records 3 more Covid-19 related deaths; 236 new cases take tally to 7,536||Three more people died due to Covid-19 in Rajasthan on Tuesday, taking the toll to 170 as 236 fresh coronavirus cases surfaced in the state, officials said. With these new cases, the total number of Covid-19 infections in the state has reached 7,536. “Three deaths, including two in Jaipur and one in Rajsamand, were recorded in the state. As many as 236 fresh cases were reported,” Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rohit Kumar Singh, said. Of the 236 new cases, 32 were reported from Jaipur, 27 from Sirohi, 25 each from Sikar and Udaipur, 23 in Pali, 13 in Nagaur, 12 each in Jhalawar and Dungarpur, 11 in Rajsamand, 10 in Kota, among others. While there are 3,090 active cases in the state, a total of 3,767 patients have been discharged from hospitals after recovering from the disease. Jaipur has recorded a maximum of 81 deaths and 1,860 coronavirus cases in the state, followed by Jodhpur which has recorded 17 deaths and 1,278 cases. Among the total 7,536 cases in the state are 2,011 migrants who have recently returned to Rajasthan from other states/UTs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-records-3-more-covid-19-related-deaths-236-new-cases-take-tally-to-7-536/story-HiOJQaibHykDKvxODiqDYK.html
26-05-2020||India||Glenmark gets DCGI approval for antiviral drug combo trial||Glenmark Pharmaceuticals on Tuesday said it received approval from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) to conduct phase 3 clinical trials in the country to test the efficacy of a combination of two antiviral drugs, Favipiravir and Umifenovir, as a potential coronavirus disease (Covid-19) treatment. The two drugs act differently. Favipiravir is known to inhibit virus replication, thus killing the pathogen; Umifenovir impedes the viral attachment to cells,acting as a viral entry inhibitor. The drugs make for an ideal combination in effectively tackling high viral loads in patients during early stage of disease.Favipiravir is an oral antiviral drug approved in Japan in 2014 for the treatment of novel or re-emerging influenza virus infections. Umifenovir is another oral antiviral drug licensed for the treatment and prophylaxis of influenza A and B infections in Russia and China. Additionally it exhibits modulatory effects on the immune system and induces production of interferons, natural proteins used to treat diseases that involve the immune system,. “Hence a combined use of Favipiravir and Umifenovir acting on different mechanisms offers a comprehensive antiviral cover on pre-entry and post-entry life-cycle of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Early administration of a combination of antiviral medications acting by different mechanisms is recommended for the treatment of Covid-19, since the viral load of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes the disease, peaks around the time of symptom onset,” Glenmark Pharmaceuticals said in a statement.“Combining antiviral drugs could result in greater clinical effectiveness and could also prevent, or delay, the emergence of resistance. The current study will examine whether early administration of a combination of Favipiravir and Umifenovir, both acting by different mechanisms, enhances antiviral efficacy on Covid-19 patients,” it added.The trial will be a randomized, open-label study for which the company will soon start recruiting patients, with a target of enrolling about 158 patients.“Combining antiviral agents that have a good safety profile and act on different stages of viral life-cycle is an effective treatment approach to rapidly suppress initial high viral load and lead to overall improvement in clinical parameters. We consider Glenmark’s study will be pivotal in leading to identification of highly effective and safe treatments against COVID-19 in India. Beyond its many potential patient treatment benefits, we also hope the combination therapy will reduce infection risk in medical professionals and healthcare workers by reducing the duration of virus shedding from treated patients,” said Monika Tandon, head, clinical development global specialty, Glenmark Pharmaceuticals. About two weeks ago, Glenmark also received DCGI approvals for clinical trials on Favipiravi. It aims to recruit 150 patients in nine government and private hospitals across the country, and has so far recruited 30. The results for only Favipiravir Phase 3 clinical trial are expected by July/August 2020.“We will do all it takes to ensure accessibility of the product across the country if the clinical trials are successful,” said Sujesh Vasudevan, president, India formulations, Middle East and Africa business, Glenmark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/glenmark-gets-dcgi-approval-for-antiviral-drug-combo-trial/story-0NIgfw1jxE95293zWyzWeN.html
26-05-2020||India||After more than a week, Delhi records less than 500 cases||New Delhi: Delhi reported 412 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday, taking the city’s tally to 14,465 cases, according to the daily health bulletin released by the Delhi government. The number of new cases in the state fell below 500 for the first time in week, with the highest number of 660 recorded on May 22, but the respite may prove to be all too brief .On Tuesday, 12 more deaths were added to the total, taking the toll of the viral infection in the city to 288. These are the deaths that get added to the total after a review by the three-member death audit committee to establish that the primary cause of death was indeed Covid-19 rather than potentially fatal co-morbidities.The positivity rate – the percentage of people who test positive– has gone up to 10% from 7.6% on May 18, when Delhi recorded 299 cases, which is one of the lowest numbers reported on a day this month. The average positivity rate over the last week has been 11.5%, with the highest of 13.8% recorded on Monday.Delhi has already reached the second of the three scenarios for which a five-member expert committee had advised the chief minister to prepare -- when the city records 100 cases a day, followed by 500 a day and finally when the daily tally reaches 1,000.“Delhi is likely to start reporting 1,000 cases a day within the next two weeks or even sooner,” said a senior official from Delhi government, on condition of anonymity.That’s because air and train travel to and from the city has resumed and more public restrictions will be loosened at the end of Lockdown 4.0 on March 31, which will make it difficult to enforce norms such as social and physical distancing “The numbers are likely to go up now that markets have opened up and people are travelling. However, the numbers also depend on the testing criteria, if more people are tested the numbers would be higher. So, it is not the numbers that we should be worried about, it is the number of deaths. We have to ensure early detection and treatment to prevent deaths,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital.If current trends follow, around 30% of these 1,000 expected cases a day, or 300 people, would need admission each day.All of the 2,000 beds in Lok Nayak Hospital, the biggest hospital dedicated for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, also have facility to provide oxygen.Only about 0.4% people need ventilator support, according to Delhi government data which closely mimics the national average.Currently, there are 4,462 Covid-19 beds in the city, 429 ICU beds, 343 beds with ventilators, and 2,632 beds with oxygen support are available in the city hospitals. Another 5,716 beds are available in 19 Covid Care centres in the city. Delhi health secretary Padmini Singla informed Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Tuesday that the government has ordered 28 ventilators and 435 oxygen concentrators (machines that selectively remove nitrogen from the ambient air to concentrate the oxygen to about 93%). Around 30,000 personal protective equipment kits in addition to the existing 50,000 and 3.5 lakh N95 masks have been ordered.The meeting was attended by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, and senior officials from the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-more-than-a-week-delhi-records-less-than-500-cases/story-W4Dzn95c6MVqQvVcHxloqL.html
26-05-2020||India||TMC vs TMC: Bengal minister slams Kolkata civic body over post-cyclone mess||Bengal’s consumer affairs minister Sadhan Pandey on Tuesday accused Kolkata’s municipal corporation of lacking preparedness to deal with the aftermath of cyclone Amphan causing immense difficulties for the city’s residents. Pandey is a senior leader of the Trinamool Congress which also runs the Kolkata municipal corporation.Pandey’s attack comes at a time when the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP,) the Congress and the Left parties have been targeting the Mamata Banerjee government over its response to the devastation caused by cyclone Amphan across south Bengal.The Kolkata Municipal Corporation’s board has completed its five-year tenure but since the elections could not be held due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government had appointed a board of administrators, with the members of the freshly-defunct mayor-in-council as its members and mayor-cum-state urban development minister Firhad Hakim as the chairman of the board. On Tuesday, Pandey targeted Hakim. “There are more than 140 wards in Kolkata but KMC has only 25 cutters. There should have one cutter in each ward. It is unfortunate that KMC didn’t have this preparation. Meanwhile the municipal commissioner Khalil Ahmed was transferred. He was a good officer. Despite getting the warning at least five days in advance, the KMC’s administrator never discussed the matter with Kolkata’s MLAs. The administrator could have called us and asked for our opinion when the warning came. He never did that,” said Pandey. In a statement that could embarrass the state’s ruling party all the more, Pandey said that Hakim should have also discussed the matter with his predecessor Sovan Chatterjee. Incidentally, Chatterjee had quit TMC and joined the BJP. Hakim shot back at Pandey soon after. “Those who are making these remarks have kept themselves locked up in their apartments for the fear of Covid-19. I have been on the streets. I have to fight both Covid-19 and the impact of the cyclone.” BJP’s state unit president Dilip Ghosh also waded into the fight saying, “I congratulate Pandey for daring the speak the truth.” In another incident, Abdul Khaleq Molla, the TMC MLA from Metiabruz, sustained injuries when a brick was thrown at him during a protest by local residents at Nadial area over the delay in restoring power supply. In some pockets of Kolkata, power connections which snapped on the day of the cyclone on May 20 returned a week later on Tuesday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-vs-tmc-bengal-minister-slams-kolkata-civic-body-over-post-cyclone-mess/story-XiO3wTw7iDVt23BsN7iUcI.html
26-05-2020||India||Odisha to test pangolin rescued from quarantine centre for Covid-19||The Odisha forest department has decided to test a pangolin, rescued from a quarantine centre, for Covid-19, an official has said. A team of officials of Athagarh Forest division in Cuttack on Monday rescued the 5-year-old pangolin from a quarantine centre in Badamba. However, it is still not clear how the wild animal ended up at there. “Acting on a tip-off from the local sarpanch (village head man), we rescued the pangolin from the quarantine facility. We will take it to the veterinary doctor here for its health checkup,” said Athagarh Divisional Forest Officer (DFO), Sasmita Lenka.Lenka said as the pangolin was rescued from the quarantine centre where 42 inmates were staying, its swab would be tested for presence of the coronavirus. The Centre for Wildlife Health in Odisha University of Agriculture and Technology in Bhubaneswar will facilitate the process.Later, it was decided to also test DFO Lenka for Covid-19 as she had come in contact with the pangolin during the rescue process. This will be the first time that swab samples of a pangolin will be sent for Covid-19 testing in the state, according to news agency IANS.The decision to test the pangolin for Covid-19 comes at a time when scientists suspect pangolins could be the carriers of Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19.A study by researchers from College of Veterinary Medicine, South China Agricultural University, earlier this month has suggested that the Sars-CoV-2 might have originated from a recombination of coronaviruses in a bat and pangolin. According to the study, pangolins and bats are both nocturnal animals, eat insects, and share overlapping ecological niches which make pangolins the ideal intermediate host for some Sars-related coronaviruses.The paper was published in the journal Nature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-test-pangolin-rescued-from-quarantine-centre-for-covid-19/story-ujcDDY52lwql0jFbKygbnL.html
26-05-2020||India||Odisha paediatrician becomes first doctor in the state to contract coronavirus||In the first-ever case of a doctor getting infected by Covid-19 in Odisha, a paediatrician employed in a government hospital of Cuttack city has been diagnosed with the coronavirus.The doctor engaged at the district headquarters hospital, popularly known as the City Hospital, was admitted to the Ashwini Covid Hospital in Cuttack after his tests came out positive. The doctor had recently visited Kendrapara to bring back his wife. His wife will also undergo Covid-19 testing.Meanwhile, the district administration has constituted a team to carry out contact tracing to identify people who came in contact with the doctor.A few days ago a constable of Odisha police in Bhubaneshwar had tested positive for the disease, becoming the first Covid case in the police force.So far, a total of 1,517 persons in Odisha have tested positive for the disease.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-paediatrician-becomes-first-doctor-in-the-state-to-contract-coronavirus/story-SvXKBb3rIouNt4Aqdp2RHN.html
26-05-2020||India||‘Won’t leave without my bride’: Groom waits at UP border after he is denied entry into Uttarakhand||A groom from Uttar Pradesh’s Moradabad area, who was on the way to solemnise his nikah (wedding) with a girl in Uttarakhand’s Nainital district on Tuesday, was not allowed to enter the state by police officials as he had not sought permission from the authorities concerned, said police.The groom waited for hours at the border, refusing to return home without his bride. He said it would be embarrassing for him at the village to return alone.Kayam, 23, the bridegroom who hails from Dilaari area in UP’s Moradabad, arrived in a car at about 8.30 am with his two brothers at UP-Uttarakhand border under Soorya police outpost in Kashipur area of US Nagar. He was on the way to Haldwani in Nainital district to solemnise his nikah with Rubeena of Bhanbulpura area (Haldwani) on Tuesday, police said.When stopped by police and asked to show permission to enter the state, Kayam only showed the permission from the bride’s side that was obtained from Nainital district administration. When he failed to show his own permission, he was denied the entry to Uttarakhand.“My nikah with Rubeena had been fixed six months earlier which was to be held on Tuesday noon in Haldwani. But police didn’t allow me to go there due to lack of permission and advised me to go back,” Kayam told local media. “If he goes back without bride it would be very embarrassing for him in front of the relatives and villagers in his area,” he added. “I won’t go back without my bride.”Police asked Kayam to inform the bride’s relative to come at the border with the bride and solemnise nikah there. After conducting nikah, he can go back to his village with the bride.Police also spoke to relatives of the girl and advised them to organise the nikah at the border as over a dozen weddings have already taken place during lockdown at the border in the district.Kayam, dressed in groom’s attire, kept on waiting at the border for girl’s relatives to show up. When the bride and her relatives didn’t show up till 5 pm, Kayam left for Thakurdwara, which is around 4 km from the border on UP side to wait for the bride at one of his relative’s homes.“It is necessary to have proper permission for crossing the border during the lockdown. The groom didn’t have permission from his side. Instead, he was showing us permission from the bride’s side. That is not acceptable as both sides should have permission. So we didn’t allow him to enter the state,” said Chetan Rawat, in-charge, Soorya police outpost in Kashipur area of US Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/won-t-leave-without-my-bride-groom-waits-at-border-after-he-is-denied-entry-into-uttarakhand/story-FD9A6fWeMLx23ArmhSa1hN.html
26-05-2020||India||A day after Bihar JD-U MLA booked for triple murder, kin shot dead||The spiral of violence in Bihar’s Gopalganj district continues even amid the Covid-19 lockdown as unidentified assailants on Tuesday shot dead a close relative of controversial JD(U) MLA from Kuchaikot, Amrendra Pandey alias Pappu Pandey, a day after the MLA’s elder brother and his son were arrested for the murder of three members of an RJD leader’s family on Sunday.Tuesday’s killing took place at Repura village under Hathua police station in Gopalganj district. This is ninth murder in the last five months in the district.The deceased was identified as Shashikant alias Munna Tiwari (45), a contractor, and a cousin of the MLA.Agitated over the incident, villagers blocked a stretch of the National Highway 28, demanding immediate arrest of the killers and the transfer of the Hathua station house officer (SHO), who they alleged was hand-in-glove with the criminal elements.The deceased’s sister Kiran Devi said the incident took place right outside Tiwari’s house. She said four assailants on two motorcycles reached the spot and fired at him from point blank range.For Coronavirus Live Updates“We are investigating the case. The reason could be a dispute over contracts. Preliminary investigation suggested that the deceased had bagged a contract of Rs 40 lakh to construct a pond,” Gopalganj SP Manoj Tiwari said.On Sunday evening, assailants had killed three members of an RJD leader’s family. The RJD leader, JP Choudhary, who was also injured in the firing, is being treated at Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH) in the state capital.Five persons, including the MLA, his brother Satish Pandey and nephew Mukesh Pandey were booked for the triple murder. The next day, Satish and his son Mukesh Pandey, chairman of Gopalganj district board, were arrested.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Meanwhile, leader of the opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Tuesday issued an ultimatum to the state government to arrest the MLA.He also visited the PMCH in Patna to enquire about the health of JP Choudhary.“I give an ultimatum to the state government to arrest the absconding MLA within two days. Otherwise, my party workers and I will march to Gopalganj and launch an intensive agitation,” Yadav said. Racting to Yadav’s ultimatum, JD (U) spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan Prasad said, “The rule of law prevails in Bihar. The present dispensation doesn’t differentiate between common people and the high and mighty. And Tejashwi Yadav should also know that it is Bihar of 2020 and not 1990.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-day-after-bihar-jd-u-mla-booked-for-triple-murder-kin-shot-dead/story-4ogjSC7X3bfb5Tlwl0DdLK.html
26-05-2020||India||PM Modi speaks to leaders of Austria, Egypt and Qatar to discuss Covid-19 crisis||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday reached out to the leaders of Austria, Egypt and Qatar to discuss the Covid-19 crisis and steps to counter the coronavirus.The telephone conversations were part of Modi’s ongoing outreach to heads of government around the world to ensure the welfare of Indian expatriates and to bolster cooperation in the fight against Covid-19 and to address the economic fallout of the pandemic.Austrian President Alexander Van der Bellen condoled the damage caused in India by cyclone Amphan and the two leaders exchanged views on steps taken in their countries to manage the health and economic impacts of the Covid-19 pandemic.They agreed on the importance of global collaboration to deal with current challenges. They also “reiterated their shared desire to further strengthen and diversify India-Austria relations in the post-Covid world”, the external affairs ministry said.Modi highlighted the opportunities for enhanced cooperation in infrastructure, technology, research and innovation, and SMEs. The leaders shared the hope the world will soon overcome the health crisis and focus on longer-term concerns such as the health of the environment.During his phone conversation with the Amir of Qatar, Sheikh Tamim Bin Hamad Al-Thani, Modi conveyed greetings on the occasion of Eid-ul-Fitr and appreciated the personal care taken by the Amir for ensuring the welfare of Indian citizens amid the pandemic.The Amir appreciated the contributions of the Indian community in Qatar, especially the role played by health workers. Modi highlighted the attention being paid by Indian authorities to avoid any disruption in supply of essential goods to Qatar.Modi also conveyed greetings for Eid-ul-Fitr to Egyptian President Abdel Fattah Al-Sisi, who expressed happiness at the fast expanding bilateral ties. Modi also expressed his appreciation for the support extended by Egyptian authorities for the safety and welfare of Indian nationals during the Covid-19 crisis.Referring to his planned visit to Egypt earlier this year, which was postponed due to the pandemic, Modi conveyed his desire to meet Sisi as soon as circumstances permit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-speaks-to-leaders-of-austria-egypt-and-qatar-to-discuss-covid-19-crisis/story-Lm3RWW1nvEb1ASR0OwYVUO.html
26-05-2020||India||Denied admission to enter village, Odisha youth gets quarantined in his car||A 30-year-old man in Odisha’s Covid-19 hotspot of Ganjam district has been forced to quarantine himself in his car for the last six days as villagers have not allowed him to enter the village.Madhaba Patra, a videographer staying in an apartment of Berhampur town in Ganjam district had gone to Bihar on some business-related trip on May 3 and returned after three days. As Patra had no symptoms of coronavirus, he was allowed by the administration to stay in home quarantine in Berhampur as per norms. After completing his quarantine period of 14 days in his apartment at Berhampur he tested negative for coronavirus, officials said.After completing the 14-day quarantine period, he went to his village Dolaba in Sanakhemundi block of Ganjam in his car on the day cyclone Amphan was to pass by Odisha coast.But a day after his arrival, the husband of a local anganwadi worker and some other villagers opposed Patra’s entry to the village and insisted that he undergo another round of quarantine.“I tried to reason with the villagers that I have tested negative for Covid-19 and spent the mandatory 14 days in home quarantine. I showed my certificate. However, no one seemed to believe me and asked me to stay in the institutional quarantine in a school near the village,” said Patra.The matter even reached the local police station, where the officials tried to make the villagers see reason. However, they insisted that the youth has to stay in quarantine. But unwilling to stay in the quarantine centre running in the school where several migrant workers too stayed, Patra said he would rather stay in his car.“There is a risk of getting infected in institutional quarantine where many migrant workers are housed. So I decided to stay in my car. If I have to stay in quarantine twice, there is no point. Once I tested negative in Covid test and completed home quarantine I should have been free to go anywhere,” he said.The Basudevpur grampanchayat sarpanch decided that Patra needed to spend a week in quarantine. Ganjam has the highest number of Covid-19 cases in Odisha at 358. Patra who parked himself near the quarantine centre is served food from there and gets to use the bathrooms and toilets at the facility. He sleeps in his car.Sanakhemundi Block Development Officer Gayatridutta Nayak said the youth will complete his quarantine on May 27 and can visit his home.Under Odisha’s new quarantine protocol for village areas, one has to be in institutional quarantine for seven days followed by home quarantine for another seven days.Earlier this month, a 30-year-old man in Odisha’s Balasoredistrict had to spend three days in the toilet of his home before he wasshifted to a school because the village did not have a quarantine centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/denied-admission-to-enter-village-odisha-youth-gets-quarantined-in-his-car/story-9fbxFSbZ2OKL96Dgx1i48N.html
26-05-2020||India||Covid update: Karnataka to reopen temples for worship from June 1||Karnataka has decided to allow temples to reopen for worship from the first of June as part of a gradual resumption of activities in the state, according to Muzrai minister Kota Srinivas Poojary. The state will issue a standard operating protocol (SOP) in this regard which is being formulated. This was decided in a meeting of the Muzrai (temple endowment) minister with chief minister B S Yediyurappa in which a number of other decisions regarding the ministry were also taken.Also, nearly 50 prominent temples will offer online booking of ‘sevas’ (service) and ‘poojas’ (prayers) to ensure social distancing norms are maintained even as traditions are continued. E-donations will also be encouraged for meeting the dual purpose.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesSince March 24, all temple gatherings and festivities have been banned due to the ongoing pandemic, with rituals being carried out only by sevadars and priests.The temples in the state are estimated to have lost Rs 200 crore in offerings especially in March-June, considered to be the prime season on the temple circuit because of school holidays. Department officials said churches, mosques, gurudwaras and other places of worship would also be open but will have to adhere to the same SOPs that will be released soon.Karnataka also decided to build new choultries (subsidised inn for pilgrims) at a cost of Rs 200 crore in Tirumala located in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, which is visited by lakhs of pilgrims from the state.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Central guidelines, governing the fourth phase of lockdown that ends on May 31, prohibit the resumption of mass gatherings at religious places. Followers have demanded that religious activities are also allowed with restrictions in place.The centre, however, has allowed the observance of death rituals with maximum 20 people in attendance. As on Tuesday, Karnataka has a total of 2182 positive cases of coronavirus as per the data available with the home ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-update-karnataka-to-reopen-temples-for-worship-from-june-1/story-2r4wVjUnPEOAJtxRg0dJUJ.html
26-05-2020||India||Bihar man, on way back home from Gujarat, dies on board Shramik Special train||A migrant worker on his way home in Bihar from Vapi in Gujarat, died aboard a Shramik Special train on Tuesday, a police official said. The deceased, identified as 55-year-old Lal Babu Kamati, was a resident of Jale Police Station area in Darbhanga district. He reportedly died somewhere between Kiul and Bhagalpur stations in Bihar. Kamati, who worked as a security guard in Vapi, had boarded the train on May 23 along with his wife and three daughters. Anil Kumar Singh, SHO, Bhagalpur RPF post, confirmed Kamati’s death during the train journey. The deceased’s family said he had some previous health complications, the police officer added. Kamati’s family also suspected that extreme heat conditions could have been a factor in his death. Meanwhile, a migrant worker in Darbhanga district who had arrived from Delhi on May 24, died at a block quarantine centre at Jale late on Monday night. The deceased, identified as Nurul Saddaf, worked as cook in a hotel in Delhi’s Sadar Bazaar area. He had been staying at the quarantine centre since his return. “He developed sudden breathing complication on Monday night. Nobody responded to the call on the landline number at Jale referral hospital for medical emergency,” alleged one of the inmates of the quarantine centre.Following Saddaf’s death, Jale police station in-charge Dilip Pathak, block development officer (BDO) Rajesh Kumar, circle officer (CO) Anil Kumar and Jale chief medical officer (CMO) Gangesh Jha rushed to quarantine centre early morning on Tuesday.The CMO said that the deceased was taken for burial after his sample was collected to test for Covid-19. Sources said that the relatives of deceased were provided PPE kits for burial.In another incident in the state, 19-year-old Ramu Kumar died of electric shock at a quarantine centre in Bahera village under Kusheshwarasthan (East) block on Monday evening. He had arrived from Delhi by Shramik special train on May 22.According to reports, the deceased was trying to fix a wire of a table fan when he got electrocuted. Darbhanga DM Thiyagrajan SM has asked Biraul SDO and DSP to investigate the incident. The DM said further action will be taken after receipt of enquiry report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-man-on-way-back-home-from-gujarat-dies-on-board-shramik-special-train/story-cwfBIs9wHDqHAglEzqS01N.html
26-05-2020||India||No major side-effects of HCQ in studies in India, can be used as preventive Covid treatment: ICMR||No major side-effects of antimalarial drug Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) have been found in studies in India and its use can be continued in preventive treatment for Covid-19 under strict medical supervision, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Tuesday.The ICMR’s statement came against the backdrop of the World Health Organization (WHO) temporarily suspending the testing of the drug as a potential treatment for Covid-19 over safety concerns.“The Covid-19 is an evolving field and we do not know which drug is working and which is not working. Lots of drugs are being repurposed for Covid-19, whether for prophylaxis (treatment given or action taken to prevent disease) or for treatment of the disease.“During these six weeks, we got some data in India, mainly observational studies and some case control studies. We found there were no major side affects except for nausea, vomiting, palpitation occasionally. Hence in our advisory, we’ve recommended that it should be continued for prophylaxis as there is no harm. Benefit may be there,” ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said at a press briefing here on Tuesday.He said it has been “clearly advised that HCQ should be taken with food, not on empty stomach”.“We also emphasized that one ECG should be done during the treatment. We expanded the use of HCQ from healthcare workers to front-line workers also, considering the potential benefits,” he added.Bhargava said that Chloroquine is a very old antimalarial drug used for nearly 100 years and Hydroxychloroquine is even safer and is widely used for malaria.  “Taking biological plausibility, in-vitro data and the availability and safety of this drug [HCQ], we had recommended it for use under strict medical supervision,” the ICMR DG told the press conference. “It was very popular drug suddenly when the American government also started using it and they got fast track approval or emergency use authorisation for it. We also thought that it may be a useful drug for prevention of Covid,” Bhargava said.He said that risk-benefit studies of the HCQ were conducted at the AIIMS, the ICMR, and also in three public hospitals in Delhi. “Looking at the risk and benefits we found that we should not deny it to our frontline and healthcare workers dealing with the Covid-19 patients. At the same time we have also said that the use of PPE should be continued,” he stressed.Referring to an ongoing nationwide ICMR study to assess the efficacy HCQ as a preventive medication against Covid among healthcare personnel in hospitals, Bhargava said the soon-to-be-published findings will also talk about how many of the surveyed people were wearing PPEs, what were the side-effects and how many benefited.Bhargava further said the ICMR has ramped up testing facilities and over one lakh samples are being tested per day now.While India had just one lab -- NIV, Pune -- on January 17, it has 612 laboratories (430 public and 182) private labs now, he said.The capacity has been increased by augmenting number of labs, shifts, RT-PCR machines and manpower, he said.“Guidelines have been issued to states advising immediate testing for symptomatic and home-quarantine for asymptomatic migrant workers. Besides, most states have been working with the National Tuberculosis Elimination Programme to deploy TrueNat machines for Covid-19 testing. “Indigenous manufacturers of RT-PCR kits, VTM, swabs and RNA extraction kits have been facilitated,” he said.Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Health, said the recovery rate for Covid-19 cases in the country has seen an upwards trend and has improved from 7.1 per cent in March, when the lockdown was initiated, to 11.42 per cent during the second phase of lockdown. It improved to 26.59 pc in the third phase and to 41.61 per cent now, he said.The ICMR in its revised advisory on May 22 recommended use of the HCQ as a preventive medication for Covid-19 for asymptomatic healthcare workers in non-Covid hospitals and frontline staff on surveillance duty in containment zones and paramilitary/police personnel involved in coronavirus related activities.Besides, the drug was also recommended for all asymptomatic healthcare workers involved in containment and treatment of Covid-19 and household contacts of laboratory-confirmed cases.   Highlighting the studies on prophylaxis of SARS-CoV-2 infection, the advisory stated that a retrospective case-control analysis at ICMR has found that there is a significant dose-response relationship between the number of prophylactic doses taken and frequency of occurrence of SARS CoV-2 infection in symptomatic healthcare workers who were tested for coronavirus infection.   Another investigation from three central government hospitals here indicates that amongst healthcare workers involved in Covid-19 care, those on HCQ prophylaxis were less likely to develop SARS-CoV-2 infection, compared to those who were not on it. The benefit was less pronounced in healthcare workers caring for a general patient.  Besides, an observational prospective study of 334 healthcare workers at AIIMS, out of which 248 took HCQ prophylaxis (median 6 weeks of follow-up) here also showed that those taking it had lower incidence of SARS-CoV-2 than those not taking it.According to the advisory, the drug has to be given only on the prescription of a registered medical practitioner and it is advised to consult with a physician for any adverse event or potential drug interaction before initiation of medication.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-major-side-effects-of-hcq-in-studies-in-india-can-be-used-as-preventive-covid-treatment-icmr/story-EflWWnPlVu0FHhV1OH1xoM.html
26-05-2020||India||350 migrants jump off trains to escape quarantine in Bihar, 180 detained||As many as 350 migrants returning from Delhi and Patiala jumped off Shramik Special trains by pulling alarm chains in two separate incidents between Mansi-Saharsa rail sections near Simri-Bakhtiarpur station falling under East Central railway on Tuesday.According to reports, the train (04062) carrying the migrant workers from Delhi’s Anand Vihar to Purnia halted near the Ranibagh railway crossing though there was no scheduled stoppage. Around 150 workers de-boarded and escaped.On getting information, Simri Bakhtiarpur BDO Manoj Kumar reached the spot and also met station superintendent of Simri Bakhtiarpur railway station, B K Verma who said the train stopped at around 8.36 am to 8.41 am after passengers pulled the emergency brake. Later the BDO visited a nearby village and urged locals as well as the mukhia (headman) to inform them about the migrants who escaped from the train. The locals also demanded migrants who escaped from the train should be kept in quarantine centres.In another incident, at around 4.24 pm more than 250 migrant returnees fled a ‘Shramik Special’ train near the same rail section after pulling the alarm chain. After some locals spotted the migrant returnees coming from the railway track towards Ranibagh area, they informed police and railway protection force (RPF). While 180 of the migrants were detained by the locals, others managed to escape.On getting information BDO Manoj Kumar and government railway police’s (GRP) station house officer (SHO) Ranveer Kumar reached the spot and brought them back to Simri Bakhtiarpur railway station.Though the migrants refuted the allegation of chain pulling and said that they alighted from the train as it had stopped, the station superintendent insisted that the chain was pulled to stop the train. The migrants would be sent to their respective native places by buses after thermal scanning.One of the migrants said the ‘Shramik Special’ train (4534) was carrying people of Saharsa from Patiala in Punjab. “We were facing a lot of problems owing to lack of jobs and the lockdown. We were returning home’, he added.In a similar incident, migrants allegedly stopped another train headed towards Gaya from Chandigarh near Mahdi Ganj village in Sasaram district. Soon after, the passengers started deboarding the train and ran away to their destinations instead of going to the quarantine centre, GRP officials said. Twenty four passengers are suspected to have escaped from the train.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/350-migrants-jump-off-trains-to-escape-quarantine-in-bihar-180-detained/story-opjHMM0tLd5NOlGfJFrJKO.html
26-05-2020||India||IndiGo grounds Chennai-Coimbatore flight crew after passenger tests positive for coronavirus||IndiGo on Tuesday grounded the crew of Chennai-Coimbatore flight after a passenger travelling on-board was found to be coronavirus positive.This is the first case of a passenger testing positive for Covid-19 after the domestic flight services resumed on Monday. The passenger, who was on-board the Chennai-Coimbatore IndiGo flight 6E 381, has been sent on quarantine at ESI state medical facility at Coimbatore. As a precautionary measure, the crew members that operated on the flight have been grounded for 14 days, IndiGo said in a statement.“The passenger was seated on-board the aircraft with all precautionary measures including face mask, face shield and gloves, as were the other passengers. Additionally, no one else was seated in his vicinity, significantly reducing the possibility of transmission,” the statement said. “The operating crew has been grounded for 14 days and we are in the process of notifying other passengers as per the government guidelines, to ensure safety of our passengers and staff,” IndiGo said.India on Monday resumed air travel across the country after grounding the flight services for two months as a measure to control the spread of coronavirus. Several states have announced varied quarantine and self-isolation rules for the passengers arriving.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indigo-grounds-chennai-coimbatore-flight-crew-after-passenger-tests-positive-for-coronavirus/story-JLG9Fiqxzh2z42nNtPwDCO.html
26-05-2020||India||Over 200 bats found dead in a Bihar village, doctors collect their swabs for testing||A team of doctors from Bihar government’s animal husbandry department on Tuesday confirmed reports of mass death of bats near Ara in Bhojpur district. The swab samples of the dead birds are being sent to Patna for testing and doctors said any reason for their death could only be attributed after the test reports are obtained.The team of doctors visited Tarari, 55 km south from Bhojpur district headquarter of Ara after getting information about the death of hundreds of bats there.As per locals, a large number of bats were found dead in Tarari on Monday, following which the animal husbandry department was informed. The district animal husbandry officer Dr Sidh Nath Rai said that the team of six doctors who visited the incident site on Tuesday reported about the death of around 200 bats there.He said that the swab samples of dead bats have been taken and it will be sent to the Institute of Animal Health and Production situated in Patna for testing.The bizarre incident has generated even more curiosity as it comes amidst the outbreak of coronavirus pandemic which has been linked to bats. For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe district animal husbandry officer said he could only speak about the reason of the deaths after getting the medical report from Patna. However, he said that the incident does not seem to be connected with bird flu. Bats are mammals and bird flu is not known to spread in high temperatures like at the present.The dead bats have been buried five to six feet deep in the ground following all the medical procedures. The incident site and all the nearby places were also sanitised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-200-bats-found-dead-in-a-bihar-village-doctors-collect-their-swabs-for-testing/story-IaDy0j7ud81OBj7cpFmUyJ.html
26-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 PM: India won’t allow change of status quo on Line of Actual Control, say officials and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India won’t allow change of status quo on Line of Actual Control: OfficialsThe government sources on Tuesday underlined that India won’t permit any change of the status quo on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) amid rising tensions with China in the Ladakh sector. Read more. Assam flood situation deteriorates, 2 lakh people in 7 districts affectedNearly two lakh people in seven districts in Assam have been affected by floods as incessant rain across much of the state worsened the situation on Tuesday. Read more. Covid-19 latest: Kerala sees biggest single-day spike, CM cautions against lowering guardKerala on Tuesday reported 67 coronavirus cases, the highest in a single day since the outbreak in January resulting in the chief minister sounding a note of caution against the lowering of guard and easing of surveillance at this critical juncture as it may lead to community transmission of the disease. Read more. Adityanath makes u-turn, UP says no permission needed to hire its workersTwo days after Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said other states will also need permission from the state for engaging its workers, his government said Tuesday that it would not incorporate, in the migration commission bye-laws, the ‘prior permission’ clause for states seeking to employ manpower from UP. Read more.Donald Trump threatens to shift Republican conventionPresident Donald Trump has threatened to shift the upcoming Republican party convention, where he will be officially crowned as the party’s presidential nominee for the November elections out of Democratic-ruled North Carolina, citing continuing Covid-19 related restrictions there. Read more. ‘You remind me of me’: Jonty Rhodes gives huge praise to India cricketer on fielding effortsIndia cricketer Suresh Raina has always been known as a great fielder. The left-handed batsman was often seen diving around the cricket field, trying to save runs. He has also taken some memorable catches, and caused some quick run-outs. Read more. Crime Patrol actor Preksha Mehta commits suicide at 25, leaves final note on InstagramTelevision actor Preksha Mehta committed suicide at her residence in Indore by hanging herself from the ceiling fan. She took the drastic step on Monday night but her body was discovered early on Tuesday morning by her father. Read more. Aarogya Setu’s Android version made open sourceThe government today made the Android version of Aarogya Setu open source. The iOS and KaiOS versions of Aarogya Setu will also be made open source soon. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-india-won-t-allow-change-of-status-quo-on-line-of-actual-control-say-officials-and-all-the-latest-news/story-O1jWllU2ORyO2JtR7OH7JP.html
26-05-2020||India||Hotels ordered to refund 7 days rent after institutional quarantine cut from 14 to 7 days||The home ministry has intervened on Tuesday following complaints that some hotels, used as temporary quarantine centres for people travelling from outside the country, were refusing to return seven day advance money after the government cut down institutional quarantine period from 14 days to seven.A notification issued on Tuesday by Ajay Bhalla, secretary home ministry in this regards instructs chief secretaries of all states to ensure that the hotels process refunds without any delay.“It has been brought to the notice of this ministry that Indian nationals who were quarantined in hotels after their return from abroad were made to pay advance for 14 days. Since they can now leave for home quarantine after 7 days, the amount paid by them for the remaining 7 days needs to be refunded to them, which some hotels are refusing to refund,” the order highlights.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe home ministry on Sunday revised its guidelines to cut short mandatory institutional quarantine for passengers arriving from abroad on flights operated under the Vande Bharat mission—a massive repatriation exercise being conducted by the government of India—to seven days from earlier 14 days period.According to the revised advisory, people could choose to spend the second week of quarantine at their homes. But the ministry received complaints that several hotels had already charged 14-days rent from arriving guests and were now refusing to return a week’s advance rent.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The home ministry directed the states to ensure that the hotels in their jurisdiction comply.“You are requested to issue necessary directions to hotels earmarked/used for Institutional quarantine to ensure that foreign returnees who were quarantined in hotels and paid advance of 14-days, shall be refunded the balance amount, without any delay,” the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hotels-ordered-to-repay-7-days-rent-after-institutional-quarantine-cut-from-14-to-7-days/story-UcdW5APNX2vtFWXTgUhL8K.html
26-05-2020||India||Assam flood situation deteriorates, 2 lakh people in 7 districts affected||Nearly two lakh people in seven districts in Assam have been affected by floods as incessant rain across much of the state worsened the situation on Tuesday.According to the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), 229 villages in 17 revenue circles of Dhemaji, Lakhimpur, Darrang, Nalbari, Goalpara, Dibrugarh and Tinsukia have been affected by floods.A total of 1,94,916 people have been affected by floods and nearly 9,000 of them are taking shelter in 35 relief camps set up in Dhemaji, Lakhimpur, Goalpara and Tinsukia districts.A total of 1,007 hectares of crop area has been submerged due to flooding and around 16,500 domestic animals and poultry affected, the ASDMA said.Most rivers in the state continued to remain in spate with the Jia Bharali and Brahmaputra flowing above the danger mark in Sonitpur and Nematighat (Jorhat) respectively.Meanwhile, three persons from a single family were killed due to a landslide at Arzoo village in Dibang Valley district of Arunachal Pradesh on Monday. Incessant rainfall in the past couple of days has affected large parts of the state.Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Pema Khandu announced ex-gratia of Rs 4 lakh each to next of kin of the deceased persons. He directed district officials to move people to safer areas to protect them from floods and landslides.The situation in the region is likely to remain grim for the next few days with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) issuing a red alert predicting heavy to very heavy rainfall in Assam and Meghalaya from May 26 to May 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-flood-situation-deteriorates-2-lakh-people-in-7-districts-affected/story-lvFjvwOgu0FuOdref0IOCJ.html
26-05-2020||India||Covid-19 latest: Kerala sees biggest single-day spike, CM cautions against lowering guard||Kerala on Tuesday reported 67 coronavirus cases, the highest in a single day since the outbreak in January resulting in the chief minister sounding a note of caution against the lowering of guard and easing of surveillance at this critical juncture as it may lead to community transmission of the disease.Among the new cases, 27 are foreign returnees, 30 are arrivals from other states and 10 were people who contracted the disease within the state from the infected, said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan.He added that Palakkad district had reported 29 cases on Tuesday-- the maximum in the state. Out of Kerala’s total 963 Covid-19 cases, 415 are active. The number of persons under observation has risen to over one lakh while 7 people have died due to the disease.When asked about Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s observation that lockdown has failed to serve its purpose, the CM said he did not agree with it.“I feel lockdown helped to contain the spread. Even before the Centre imposed it, Kerala started implementing it. So we can’t blame the lockdown,” he said.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesTalking to newsmen earlier in the day, Gandhi said the two-month-long lockdown failed to serve its purpose as cases spiked in this period. He also asked the Modi government to spell out its ‘Plan B’ to handle the crisis. Vijayan said he agreed that the centre did not intervene effectively to address lockdown-induced problems.“I agree with the Centre’s intervention to lessen the woes of the lockdown affected people, was inadequate. States were not heard properly and compensated,” Vijayan said.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The CM also criticised railway minister Piyush Goyal’s statement that the state was not keen on bringing back its people stranded in other parts of the country.“You can’t send trains without informing the state. We had a couple of such experiences. This will sabotage our preparedness. Such a statement was least expected from a union minister,” Vijayan said, adding people of the state knew him well and he did not want a certificate in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-latest-kerala-sees-biggest-single-day-spike-cm-cautions-against-lowering-guard/story-8mK7dX5XF9PdxWPzsiQgmJ.html
26-05-2020||India||Hit by cyclone Amphan, villages in Sunderbans face drinking water crisis||Devastated by cyclone Amphan almost a week ago, several villages on remote islands of the Sunderbans and the coastal belt in West Bengal are now facing an acute drinking water crisis but authorities claim 70% of the water connections have been restoredThe Sunderbans is the world’s largest mangrove delta and home to more than 4.5 million people. It is spread over two districts - South 24 Parganas and North 24 Parganas and has 102 islands of which 54 are inhabited.The cyclone destroyed dozens of pipelines that used to supply drinking water to the islands surrounded by rivers fed with saline tidal water from the sea. Salt water from these rivers has gushed into the villages through breaches in the embankments filling up the sweet water ponds and hundreds of tube wells still remain submerged in saline water even six days after the calamity.“I need to walk for nearly 30 minutes, stand in a queue behind more than 50 minutes, fill up a bucket and an earthen pitcher from the only functional tube well in the area and then walk back home,” said Swapna Sardar, 36, a resident of Rangabelia village in Gosaba, a block in South 24 Parganas district that has been totally devastated by the storm.Hundreds of villages in several blocks such as Gosaba, Kultali, Kakdwip, Namkhana, Patharpramima in South 24 Parganas and Minakha, Sandeshkhali, Hingalganj and Hasnabad in North 24 Parganas have been devastated. Many are still inundated.“There is an acute shortage of drinking water. Nearly 16 km of embankments have been breached and storm surge have destroyed the sluice gates. Saline water has gushed into the villages inundating the ponds and tubewells. We are providing water pouches. Huge drums filled with water are being distributed in the villages in vehicles and boats,” said Manturam Pakhira, Sunderban affairs minister.Locals in the villages said that dozens of tube wells are lying defunct for a long time. While some have not been repaired since they were destroyed by cyclone Aila in May 2019, many others became useless when cyclone Bulbul hit in November 2019. Many others became non-operational due to poor maintenance and no maintenance.“There were three tubewells in my village. But only one work is functional now. Repeated appeals to the local MLA have not yielded any results. Now after the cyclone there is crowding near the tubewells every day,” said Antara Mahata, a resident of Gobindarampur village in Kakdwip block. Most ponds will have to be emptied and treated before they are filled again for the water to become fit for drinking.“We will have to treat the ponds with lime and potassium permanganate before monsoon so that fresh water can fill them up again. Dozens of pumps have been deployed to drain out the water that has inundated the villages. We also need to clean the tubewells,” said S Mitra, BDO of Gosaba.While most of the islands in the South 24 Parganas part of the Sunderbans are battling a drinking water crisis, one island in the same district has put up a starkly different picture despite being equally hit. It is the Sagar Island at the mouth of the Bay of Bengal.Every year the island hosts lakhs of people from across India during the Ganga Sagar mela. The infrastructure that has been developed to handle such huge congregation has come handy for the district administration while facing the crises – Amphan during the time of the coronavirus pandemic.“During the Ganga Sagar mela we have to produce water pouches for millions of pilgrims every day. Machines that can produce water pouches are already installed and huge water tankers of the public health engineering department were already there on the island. Those have been deployed. We are much better off,” said Sudipta Mandal BDO of Sagar.The saline water that has gushed into the villages has also killed all the sweet water fish including rohu, kalta and pangash.Dead fish could be seen floating in ponds Gobindarampur village in Kakdwip two days after the cyclone. Villagers had to collect the dead fishes and dump them.“The dead fish had to be collected and buried. We will have to drain out the salt water from the ponds and treat the bed with lime. Once the monsoon starts the ponds will be again filled with fresh rain water. But it would take some time to rear fish as we had seen after cyclone Aila,” said Sudam Roy, a resident of Rangabelia village in Gosaba where dozens of such ponds have been destroyed.On Tuesday the government said 70% of water connections in the Sunderbans have been restored.“In the remote islands of the Sunderbans we are sending water pouches everyday which are being distributed. Also water tankers are being sent on boats to the islands. 70% of the water connection has been restored. The main problem is electricity. If electricity is restored water connection will come. That is being simultaneously restored,” said P Ulaganathan, district magistrate of South 24 Parganas.He did not say how long it would take to restore normal drinking water supply across all the islands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hit-by-cyclone-amphan-villages-in-sunderbans-face-drinking-water-crisis/story-ggOH1uq5rBIowJPaLfstlM.html
26-05-2020||India||Assam lifts ban on pork sale in AFS-affected districts with certain riders||Assam government on Tuesday lifted the ban on sale and consumption of pork in the African Swine Fever (ASF)-affected districts with certain conditions.Nearly 16,000 pigs have died since April in 10 of the 33 districts in the state due to ASF, which has been detected for the first time in the country. The state government had banned sale and consumption of pork in the affected districts on April 25 following the spike in deaths.“After consultations with veterinary experts and veterinary department officials, we have decided on certain relaxations in sale and consumption of pork and pork products. I am sure this will provide relief to pig farmers and piggery owners,” agriculture minister Atul Bora said during a press conference.The minister said that within the affected districts, sale and consumption has been banned in epicentres of the ASF disease as well as infected and surveillance zones. Inter-district and inter-state sale, purchase and transfer of pigs, pork and pork products also won’t be allowed, Bora informed.The state government has declared seven areas in Biswanath, Dhemaji, Sibsagar, Jorhat and Kamrup (Metro) districts as epicentres of ASF. An area within 1 km radius of these epicentres is considered as infected zone and an area within 10 km of the infected zone as surveillance zone.“We welcome the government’s move as it will provide some relief to pig farmers. But there should be strict monitoring of sale in the affected districts,” said Manoj Kumar Basumatary, president of North East Progressive Pig Farmers Association (NEPPFA), an organization of pig farmers.“The government should also consider giving financial assistance or fodder to farmers in affected districts and there should be more testing of samples to ensure that the disease doesn’t spread further,” he added.African Swine Fever is a highly contagious haemorrhagic viral disease of domestic and wild pigs. It can spread by live or dead – both domestic and wild- and through pork products.According to 2019 census, Assam has a pig population of 21 lakh and thousands of farmers across the state are involved in the piggery sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-lifts-ban-on-pork-sale-in-afs-affected-districts-with-certain-riders/story-WnyOH1dZxCbZ1O2RNPhXuJ.html
26-05-2020||India||Covid-19 epicentre shifts from Garhwal to Kumaon region in Uttarakhand||The epicentre of Covid-19 infection has shifted in the Himalayan state from Garhwal to Kumaon region with a sudden spike in migrants testing positive for coronavirus infection in the last four days.On Tuesday, Uttarakhand reported 51 new Covid 19 positive cases, taking the state’s tally to 400 including 136 cases listed in Kumaon region’s Nainital district, which has now overtaken Garhwal region’s Dehradun, also the state’s capital, which has recorded 74 cases so far.The shift happened on Saturday when 57 fresh cases were reported from Nainital, increasing its tally to 85. From Saturday onwards, more cases have tested positive in the Kumaon region with the influx of migrants from other states.Till Tuesday evening, Kumaon has a total of 237 cases, while the Garhwal region has reported 158 cases. According to JC Pandey, public relations officer (PRO) state health department, 51 new cases including a nurse at the government hospital in Haridwar, have been detected in the state on Tuesday, while five patients recovered on Tuesday taking the total number of recoveries to 64.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesFresh cases were reported from Nainital (10), Udham Singh Nagar (2), Tehri Garhwal (14), Haridwar (5), Almora (3), Haridwar (5) and Pithoragarh (14). Most of these cases are migrants who returned from places like Maharashtra, Delhi, Meerut, Chandigarh and Punjab. So far over 330 migrants have tested positive in the state.According to government officials, till Tuesday evening, over 2.52 lakh registrations had been made on the state website by people seeking to return to the state. Of these, the state government has so far brought back 1.64 lakh people through trains and buses. Uttarakhand has so far tested 23,076 samples of which 18,193 have tested negative and 400 have tested positive. The rate of doubling of cases (in the last seven days) stands at 3.84 days. The percentage of recovery for Covid-19 patients in the state has now reached 16 %.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Meanwhile, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Tuesday announced a monetary reward of Rs 50 lakh to those Covid-19 hospitals in the state that have managed to treat positive patients without letting their staffers getting infected.Making the announcement Rawat said, “The health workers are our frontline fighters in the fight against this deadly virus. Their health safety is our utmost priority. This move will definitely motivate the Covid hospitals to ensure the health safety of their staffers and also boost their morale while fighting the pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-epicentre-shifts-from-garhwal-to-kumaon-region-in-uttarakhand/story-S6nA3y3VH6XxMwB2tltLNK.html
26-05-2020||India||Uttarakhand officials booked for negligence after six-year-old dies of snakebite at Nainital quarantine centre||Three officials associated with a quarantine centre in Nainital, where a six-year-old girl died due to snakebite on Monday, were booked for death due to negligence on the basis of a complaint by the girl’s uncle.The six-year-old girl was quarantined at a government primary school at Talli Sethi village in a remote area of Nainital district where she was allegedly bitten by a snake in the wee hours.Also Read: Snakebite kills six-year-old girl in Uttarakhand quarantine centreSavin Bansal, district magistrate Nainital ordered an investigation into the incident by the sub-divisional magistrate Koshyakutoli Richa Singh. The investigation revealed alleged negligence on part of Karan Singh, a school teacher, Rajpal Singh, revenue officer (patwari) and Umesh Joshi, village development officer, who were on duty at the quarantine centre, officials said.“Negligence of three officials has come to fore in this incident. Neither did they reach the spot after the incident came to light nor did they inform their higher authorities about it,” said Richa Singh, SDM Koshyakutoli in Nainital district.“On the complaint of the girl’s uncle, the local Naib Tehsildar (revenue police) lodged a FIR against all the three officials on charges of death due to negligence” she said.District magistrate Nainital, Savin Bansal has now instructed district development officer, district panchayat raj officer and district education officer to ensure the presence of all employees deployed in quarantine centres through video-calling.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe three officials were booked under IPC 304 A (causing death by negligence), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligence act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 51 B of the Disaster Management Act.Bijulal, the divisional forest officer (DFO) Nainital said, “The family of the girl will be provided a compensation of Rs 3 lakh.”Meanwhile, Indira Hridayesh, leader of opposition in Uttarakhand alleged that quarantine centres across the state were in bad condition. “There is no provision of proper facilities like food, water and medicines in these centres,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-officials-booked-for-negligence-after-six-year-old-dies-of-snakebite-at-nainital-quarantine-centre/story-gxfmgFsVj0we60prx253AM.html
26-05-2020||India||Assam cabinet makes institutional quarantine mandatory for all returnees||Assam cabinet on Tuesday decided that all those stranded people, who are returning to the state following the easing of lockdown restrictions from May 4, will have to undergo institutional quarantine for the first few days because of a spike in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases in the past few days.The state has reported 598 Covid-19 positive cases till Tuesday afternoon. Assam already has a strict policy, which requires all returnees to spend a total of 14 days in quarantine, with the first few days in an institution until the test results are available and the rest in isolation at home. “On Tuesday, the cabinet approved the enforcement of strict quarantine for all returnees for 14 days, as we don’t want community spread of the viral outbreak,” parliamentary affairs minister Chandra Mohan Patowary told media persons after the meeting.In a bid to help folk artistes, who are facing economic hardships because of the ongoing lockdown restrictions, which have been imposed since end-March to contain the spread of the pandemic, the cabinet also decided to provide Rs2,000 to each of them for three months, beginning April.“The cabinet directed all the deputy commissioners to stock adequate relief materials and repair embankments, as the onset of floods is likely from July,” Patowary said.Ministers, who are in charge of Covid-19 management in the state’s 33 districts, have been entrusted with the additional responsibility of overseeing flood relief work in those districts, Patowary added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cabinet-makes-institutional-quarantine-mandatory-for-all-returnees/story-ysO1sYYec9VDQcu4Z4mizH.html
26-05-2020||India||53-yr-old woman dies at Covid-19 quarantine centre in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh||Pithoragarh: A 53 -year-old woman died at a Covid-19 quarantine centre in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district, health officials said on Tuesday. Authorities have instituted an inquiry to determine the cause of her death.The woman had recently returned to her village in the hilly district from Haldwani in Nainital district, following which she had been quarantined.Dr Bhagirathi Gunjan, chief medical officer Pithoragarh said that the woman had been quarantined at at Khoyam Jerthi village in the district after she returned from Haldwani on May 22. She said, on the directions of the district magistrate, an inquiry was initiated into the death of the woman on Monday evening.“It is not clear how she died. A team of doctors has been sent to the area to investigate the death and determine its cause. Her post mortem result will clarify the circumstances under which she died”, she saidRajendra Singh Danu, gram pradhan (village head) of Khoyam Jerthi, said the woman was quite healthy while at the quarantine centre but she collapsed on Monday evening following which local doctors declared her dead.“It seems that she likely died due to a heart attack but her post mortem result will reveal the exact cause”, he said.On Monday, a six-year-old girl at a quarantine centre in Nainital district’s Betalghat area died after she was allegedly bitten by a snake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/53-yr-old-woman-dies-at-covid-19-quarantine-centre-in-uttarakhand-s-pithoragarh/story-yJwkVFfWQuIruq1EmUaneL.html
26-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Haridwar administration begins rapid testing of migrants workers||Following the recent spike in Covid-19 positive cases with the arrival of migrants in Uttarakhand, the Haridwar administration has decided to conduct rapid antibody test along with the routine and random testing of the symptomatic patients. With over 300 migrants testing Covid-19 positive in the state so far as per the state health department, this step is being seen as a move to trace the positive patients in a short span so that they can be put in quarantine centres.Haridwar district reported five new positive cases on Tuesday which included a district hospital staff nurse and two migrants who arrived from Mumbai recently. About ten cases of migrants testing positive have resurfaced in past week in Haridwar.Rapid antibody testing is being done on a daily basis at Haridwar Mela hospital-based Covid-19 centre and Civil hospital in Roorkee.The health administration opting for the rapid test is also being linked with the delay in the arrival of reports from three authorised medical labs at Haldwani Medical College, Doon Medical College and All India Institute of Medical Sciences AIIMS, Rishikesh.According to Haridwar’s chief medical officer Dr Saroj Naithani, rapid test gives result in a short span and if it shows a positive sample, then it is sent to authorised labs for reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test.A district official pointed that as per Union ministry of health guidelines, rapid tests are recommended for places where a large number of cases are being reported, large gatherings and evacuation centres as has happened with the arrival of thousands of migrants in the state at the base railway station in Haridwar.Uttarakhand reported 51 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking its tally to 400, according to the state health department, reports PTI. Meanwhile, authorities have announced thirteen areas in the district as containment zones, sealing these areas where Covid-19 positive cases have been recorded in the past few days. These zones are Nagla Emarti, Roorkee, Hata Kheri Bhagwanpur, Sati Mohalla, Roorkee, Matawala Mohalla, Roorkee, Mohammedpur-Mohanpura ward no 12, Roorkee, Munda Khera Kalan, Laksar, Durgapur Laksar, Adarsh Nagar, Roorkee, Gram Dabki Laksar, Dadupur Gobindpur, Hazrat Bilal, Landaura, Ambedkar Colony, Mangalore and Green Park Colony, Laksar.District magistrate C Ravi Shankar said that these containment zones have been sealed with ban on entry or exit, and arrangements for essential services are being made for households thereOn May 20, Uttarakhand high court had directed the state government to procure rapid test kits immediately and start testing on an experimental basis at the border points. The HC in its order said that “although rapid antibody test has not been approved by ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which is the nodal agency spearheading the fight against Covid-19 pandemic in the country) for diagnostic purposes, but since the result of this test is available in much less time, such tests can be used for surveillance purposes alone. At least it would be better surveillance than the surveillance by thermal screening.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-haridwar-administration-begins-rapid-testing-of-migrants-workers/story-giTDusEJ1lQq1q948FypsO.html
26-05-2020||India||SC hits reset on stand over plight of migrant workers, sends notice to govt||A three-judge bench of the Supreme Court on Tuesday told the government at the Centre and the states to report back in two days on the steps being taken to help migrant workers stranded due to the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown.The top court’s notice comes barely 10 days after another bench refused to intervene on a petition that wanted the government to identify stranded migrant workers, take care of their needs and provide free transport to them. At one point, a judge on this bench remarked: “How can we (migrants) stop them from walking”.This was the first time since the March 25 lockdown that the top court had practically declined to push the government to do more for the migrant workers. On April 27, the court had closed a petition on the plight of migrant workers after the Centre insisted that all arrangements had been made for the migrant workers at 26,000 plus relief camps.A bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan on Tuesday said it was taking suo motu note of media reports and the many representations that they had received about the plight of migrants. In its preliminary remarks recorded in the order, the bench said the central and state governments should immediately provide adequate transport arrangement, food and shelters “free of costs”.As the bench, also comprising justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MR Shah, gave governments time till Thursday to come up with their response, it underscored that the government and the states had taken measures “yet there have been inadequacies and certain lapses”.“We are of the view that effective concentrated efforts are required to redeem the situation,” the bench said in its two-page order.A larger part of Tuesday’s order was devoted to outlining the reasons why the court had decided to take up the issue on its own.Media reports, the order said, had been “continuously showing the unfortunate and miserable conditions of migrant labourers” walking on-foot and cycles from long distances.“They have also been complaining of not being provided food and water by the administration at places where they were stranded or in the way i.e. highways from which they proceeded on-foot, cycles or other modes of transport,” the Supreme Court said, holding that “this section of the society needs succour and help” by the governments concerned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-issues-notice-to-centre-states-over-migrants-plight-says-there-have-been-lapses/story-UPLhdih1PlXPlmYp3NYVfM.html
26-05-2020||India||Delhi sees 412 new Covid-19 cases, daily tally dips under 500 after one week||Delhi reported 412 cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the city’s total tally to 14,465, according to the daily health bulletin from the Delhi government.New cases in the national capital were under 500 after one week, with the highest number of 660 recorded on May 22.On Tuesday, 12 more deaths were added to the total, taking the toll due to the viral infection in the city to 288. These are the deaths that get added to the total after a review by a three-member death audit committee to establish whether the primary cause of death was Covid-19.The positivity rate – the percentage of people testing positive among those tested – has gone up to 10% from 7.6% on May 18, when Delhi recorded 299 cases, which was one of the lowest daily numbers reported this month.The average positivity rate over the past week has been 11.5%, with the highest of 13.8% recorded on Monday.Delhi has already reached the second of three scenarios that a five-member expert committee had advised the chief minister to prepare for. The first scenario was when the city recorded 100 cases a day and the third scenario is the city recording 1,000 cases a day.“Delhi is likely to start reporting 1,000 cases a day within the next two weeks or even sooner,” a senior official of the Delhi government said on condition of anonymity.With the easing of lockdown norms and travel resuming, experts agree.“The numbers are likely to go up now that markets have opened up and people are travelling. However, the numbers also depend on testing criteria – if more people are tested, the numbers would be higher. So, it is not the number of cases that we should be worried about, it is the number of deaths. We have to ensure early detection and treatment to prevent deaths,” said Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital.If the current trends remain, around 30% of these cases or 300 people would need admission to hospital each day. The Delhi government is in the process of scaling up its Covid-19 infrastructure by adding another 1,500 beds with oxygen at Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital.All of the 2,000 beds in Lok Nayak Hospital, the biggest healthcare facility dedicated to treating Covid-19 patients, also have facility to provide oxygen.Only about 0.4% people need ventilator support, according to Delhi government data, which closely mimics the national average.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-new-412-cases-delhi-s-daily-tally-dips-under-500-after-one-week/story-GiAXaSvhyRqFcfnVxZHNfM.html
26-05-2020||India||ICMR removes cap of ₹4,500 for Covid-19 tests; states free to fix the cost||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Tuesday removed the price cap of Rs4,500 for the real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test used to detect coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Now, the states have been given a free hand to negotiate with the approved list of laboratories and fix the cost to conduct Covid-19 test.ICMR director-general Dr. Balram Bhargava wrote to all the state chief secretaries that Rs 4,500, which was the ceiling price fixed earlier to conduct the RT-PCR test, is no longer applicable, as the testing capacity and infrastructure have improved significantly since the onset of the viral outbreak in the country. The dependence on imported kits has also become negligible because of an increase in domestic production.“At the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, there was a global crisis of testing kits and reagents, as India was heavily reliant on imported products for molecular detection of viruses. As such in mid-March, no rates for RT-PCR test for coronavirus were available for ready reference in the country. Keeping in view the cost of imported kits and efforts involved in carrying out the test, ICMR suggested the upper limit of a single test at Rs 4,500,” the letter said.In April, Karnataka took the lead and capped the Covid-19 test rate at Rs2,250 in private laboratories for the swab samples sent by the government.Private laboratories elsewhere in the country are also dragging down their costs. “We’ve already reworked our costs to Rs3,500 for each test. This is the rate that we’re offering to the Delhi government,” said Dr. Arvind Lal, chairman, and managing director, Dr. Lal Path Labs.There are 428 and 182 government and private laboratories, respectively, which are engaged in Covid-19 tests, and have a combined capacity of conducting 1.4 lakh tests in a day.“… keeping in view of the evolving prices of the testing commodities, the earlier suggested upper ceiling of Rs4,500 may not be applicable now. All state governments/Union Territory administrations are being advised to negotiate with private laboratories and fix mutually agreeable prices for samples being sent by the government and also private individuals who want to get tested in these laboratories,” said the letter.The government has been working with domestic manufacturers. “… by handholding and promoting them to locally manufacture swabs, viral transport medium, and RNA extraction kits…. now testing supplies are also stabilising and many of you have started procuring such kits from the local market. Due to varied options of testing materials/kits including indigenous ones, the prices are becoming competitive and are undergoing reduction,” added the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-removes-cap-of-4-500-for-covid-19-tests-states-free-to-fix-the-cost/story-i48FbKPDfuGS3Ph7grf8UK.html
26-05-2020||India||India, Australia to sign defence logistics pact during first virtual bilateral summit||In a diplomatic first, India and Australia are expected to sign an agreement for reciprocal access to military logistics facilities and other pacts aimed at developing alternative supply chains when the two sides hold their first virtual summit on June 4.The summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison, yet to be formally announced, will be held against the backdrop of heightened friction with China for both countries.It will be Modi’s first virtual bilateral summit and the first time several bilateral agreements will be concluded virtually since the Covid-19 outbreak, two people familiar with the development said. The Mutual Logistics Support Agreement (MLSA), finalised at the “2+2” or combined dialogue of the foreign and defence secretaries in New Delhi last December, was to be signed during Morrison’s visit in January, which was called off due to the Australian bushfires.With joint exercises and defence cooperation between India and Australia on the upswing, MLSA will remove the need for protracted negotiations for reciprocal access to logistics support every time a manoeuvre is organised, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. It will also improve interoperability between the armed forces of the two sides.Between 2016 and 2019, India has signed similar logistics exchange agreements with the US, Singapore, France and South Korea. While the conclusion of MLSA is significant as the two sides have been negotiating it for some time, there is greater buzz about agreements to be signed in science and technology, research, pharmaceuticals and medical equipment, and rare earth metals and critical minerals which are aimed at creating supply chains in strategic areas that are less dependent on China, the people said.Even before the Covid-19 crisis, the two sides had been exploring the possibility of cooperating on rare earth metals such as lithium, neodymium and dysprosium, of which Australia has the world’s sixth largest reserves. More than 90% of India’s imports of rare earth metals, worth $3.4 million in 2016, come from China.The two sides will also look at enhancing their partnership in education as part of measures to shift the focus of Australian universities on the Chinese market, the people said. Prior to the Covid-19 crisis, Australia was home to some 90,000 Indian students.“We’re also looking at agreements in the maritime sphere and water resources and negotiations are underway on some other issues. Research and collaboration on Covid-19 will also figure in the discussions,” said one of the people cited above.Morrison has described India as “a natural partner for Australia”, and Australian high commissioner Barry O’Farrell has said the two sides have had regular discussions about how they can shape the post-Covid world order. In this context, O’Farrell said Australia supports India’s call for reforming the World Health Organization (WHO) after overcoming the Covid-19 crisis.On Tuesday, defence minister Rajnath Singh tweeted that he had spoken on telephone with his Australian counterpart Linda Reynolds and discussed the response of both sides to the Covid-19 pandemic and possible areas of cooperation.“India-Australia strategic partnership provides a good base for both the countries to work together in dealing with the post COVID challenges. We are committed to take forward the initiatives of bilateral defence and security cooperation under the Strategic Partnership framework,” Singh added. While tensions between India and China are at a high following the standoff between their border troops in Ladakh, Australia’s relations with China too took a hit after Canberra called for an independent investigation into the origins of the Covid-19 pandemic. Nitin Pai, director of the Takshashila Institution, said it made “absolute economic sense” for India and Australia to reduce the risk of their exposure to China even if the two countries weren’t grappling with tensions with China and the Covid-19 crisis.“It makes a lot of sense to find a diversity of suppliers on one hand, and to find a diversity of customers for products on the other,” he said, adding the existing geo-political risks, the pandemic and travel restrictions make it vital not to put all eggs in one basket and to build a diversity of economic partnerships.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-australia-to-sign-defence-logistics-pact-during-first-virtual-bilateral-summit/story-auvsFacFqmcM6HaqZvRNIP.html
26-05-2020||India||Gang-raped by five, woman goes to police after 20 days to file complaint||Twenty days after being allegedly gang-raped by five men in Haridwar, 26-year-old survivor walks into a police station to file a complaint against her assaulters on Monday.The five men, including two brothers, were subsequently booked by the police.The survivor used to work in a company in the industrial unit and had met one of the accused, Ahbab Ali, a contractor, a few months ago, said the police.“The two gradually started talking to each other and eventually Ali asked her to leave her job and join his business as a partner. He also demanded some money from her to which she agreed. He then took her to Dehradun and Rishikesh on the pretext of business tours where he raped her on several occasions, promising he will marry her,” said Kamlesh Upadhyay, Superintendent of police, Haridwar (city).About a month ago, when the woman asked the man to marry her, he deflected the question citing a loss in business due to lockdown.“After that his brother and another accused Parvez contacted her and asked for sexual favours, threatening that he would make the intimate video of her and his brother public. Scared, she gave in and he then raped her. Later about 20 days ago, he with his three friends gang-raped her in Haridwar,” said Upadhyay.The woman, however, gathered courage and finally lodged a complaint against the five accused.“We have registered a case against all the accused and are investigating it. The accused would be arrested soon,” said the officer.Meanwhile, in another similar incident, a 25-year-old man was arrested for allegedly raping a 15-year-old girl in Pithoragarh district on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gang-raped-by-five-woman-goes-to-police-after-20-days-to-file-complaint/story-ZRJF8atYjyMscvLtc2cZyH.html
26-05-2020||India||We are not decision makers in Maharashtra, says Rahul Gandhi||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday sought to distance himself from reports suggesting a rift within the ruling coalition in Maharashtra amid the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) frequent attacks for its “poor handling” of the Covid-19 pandemic in the state which has the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country with over 52,000.“I would like to make a differentiation here. We are supporting the government in Maharashtra, but we are not the key decision maker in Maharashtra,” Gandhi said at a news conference held via video conference in response to a question on the coronavirus crisis in the state.The Congress is a junior partner in the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition in the state. Sharad Pawar’s Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) is the other constituent of the MVA. Pawar called on chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday night to discuss the prevailing situation in the state.“We are decision makers in Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and Puducherry. There is a difference between running the government and supporting it,” Gandhi added.The BJP has upped the ante and is demanding imposition of President’s rule in the state. A BJP delegation, led by former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, last week met Governor BS Koshyari and complained to him about the “failure” of the coalition government in tackling the Covid-19 crisis.“I said very categorically that Maharashtra is an important state, Mumbai is the financial capital and there is a lot of attention, they have a difficult situation and lots of attention needs to be given to the state by the Centre,” the former Congress chief said.While the opposition BJP used Gandhi’s remarks as a fresh handle to attack the state government, NCP leader Supriya Sule backed the Congress leader.“He is absolutely right. It is a coalition. Everyone takes a decision together. Uddhav Thackeray takes everyone into confidence,” she said.However, her party colleague Majeed Memon criticised the Congress.“It is not right to say Congress is not part of the decision making process. Its members are part of the cabinet and they are not providing support from outside,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-are-not-decision-makers-in-maharashtra-says-rahul-gandhi/story-gqzNSF1yQys6PtN0kbhOjI.html
26-05-2020||India||Police excesses for lockdown violation led to 12 deaths: Study||Twelve people died in various parts of the country after they were beaten up in public for alleged violation of restrictions during the first five weeks of the national lockdown to curb the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a report by a non-government organisation has said.The study by the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI), which tracked such deaths from March 25 to April 30 based on media reports, said three out of the 12 deaths were suicides committed by the victims due to the humiliation and insult from the public beating. Three deaths each were reported from Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Andhra Pradesh (AP). Madhya Pradesh (MP) reported two deaths while Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu (TN), West Bengal (WB) and Punjab reported one death each.The 12 deceased are Luvkush, Mohammad Rizwan, Roshan Lal (UP), Bansi Kushwaha, Tibu Meda (MP), Shaikh Mohammed Ghouse, Veerabhadraiah, Peddada Srinivas Rao (AP), Sagir Jamil Khan (Maharashtra), A Abdul Rahim (TN), Lal Swami (WB) and Bhupinder Singh (Punjab).The cases of Bhupinder Singh, Peddada Srinivasa Rao and Roshan Lal were suicides, according to the study.“Media reports have brought to light that people have lost their lives following alleged police action during the lockdown. There must be an independent inquiry into these deaths,” Devika Prasad, CHRI’s program head (police reforms), said while speaking to HT.“This is yet another sign that courts and other oversight bodies need to hold police accountable for excessive force in “enforcing” the lockdown. CHRI believes the NHRC will investigate these grave allegations in a fair and effective way towards accountability,” Prasad said.In two of the 12 cases, police personnel involved were suspended pending an inquiry. These cases are from Madhya Pradesh (Bansi Kushwaha) and Andhra Pradesh (Shaikh Mohammed Ghouse). A magisterial inquiry was also ordered in both these cases.The study said in the cases of deaths of Lal Swami (WB), Mohammad Rizwan (UP), Sagir Jamil Khan (Maharashtra) and Tibu Meda (MP), authorities denied the fatalities were caused due to police beating.Regarding the death of Lal Swami from West Bengal, the police claimed that the victim died of cardiac arrest since he was already suffering from heart ailments.Kunal Aggarwal, Howrah Police commissioner, told the media that it was a case of misreporting by the press.Similarly, UP police denied that the death of Mohammad Rizwan was due to police beating, the CHRI report said. As per media reports, Alok Priyadarshi, Ambedkar Nagar’s superintendent of police, said that going by the evidence collected, there was nothing to show that Rizwan was assaulted with batons.Regarding the death of Tibu Meda, the district collector told reporters he had died due to a cardiac arrest after he saw a police vehicle approach him with blaring sirens.Despite such a claim, Meda’s family was given financial assistance of Rs 20,000 by the state authorities, as per CHRI report.The death of Sagir Jamil Khan was registered as an accidental death by Maharashtra police. Sangram Singh Nishandar, the deputy commissioner of police (Zone 1), told PTI that Khan’s medical report showed the cause of death as ‘heart enlargement’, and there was no external or internal injury on the body.Besides these 12 deaths, three people who were arrested on various charges also died in police custody during the lockdown. They were from Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Maharashtra. In two of these three cases, the victims were in custody for crimes unrelated to lockdown.CHRI has sent a petition to the National Human Rights Commission to investigate these 15 deaths.“The police in India continues to function with the colonial outlook of protecting the state/ regime in power from the people. Hence, the Constitution and rule of law take the backseat and the police wield their lathi at the slightest provocation. Moreover, the police is viewing the lockdown and its implementation as a law and order problem and not as a public health necessity,” Alok Prasanna Kumar, a senior resident fellow at Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy, said.“Besides, there is also the issue of not holding them accountable. At the most, we hear about a policeman being suspended or transferred. But there is hardly any criminal prosecution against those in the police who violate the law. This also contributes to the impunity with which they function,” Kumar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-excesses-for-lockdown-violation-led-to-12-deaths-study/story-qj5dZ68nxPBc3B0HbSBg3L.html
26-05-2020||India||Glenmark to study efficacy of two antiviral drugs for treating Covid-19||Glenmark Pharmaceuticals on Tuesday announced it has received approval from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) to conduct phase 3 clinical trials for the efficacy of a combination of the antiviral drugs Favipiravir and Umifenovir as a potential treatment strategy for Covid-19. The two drugs have different mechanisms of action – Favipiravir is known to inhibit virus replication, thus killing the virus, while Umifenovir doesn’t allow the virus to enter cells, as it impedes viral attachment and acts as a viral entry inhibitor. This results in an ideal combination for effectively tackling high viral loads in patients during the early stage of the disease.Favipiravir is an oral antiviral drug approved in Japan since 2014 for treating novel or re-emerging influenza virus infections. Umifenovir is another oral antiviral drug licenced for the treatment and prophylaxis of influenza A and B infections in Russia and China. Additionally, it exhibits modulatory effects on the immune system and induces interferon production. “Hence, a combined use of Favipiravir and Umifenovir, acting on different mechanisms, offers a comprehensive antiviral cover on pre-entry and post-entry life-cycle of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Early administration of a combination of antiviral medications, acting by different mechanisms, is recommended for the treatment of Covid-19, since the viral load of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes the disease, peaks around the time of symptom onset,” Glenmark said in a statement.“Combining antiviral drugs could result in greater clinical effectiveness and could also prevent, or delay, the emergence of resistance. The current study will examine whether early administration of a combination of Favipiravir and Umifenovir…enhances antiviral efficacy on Covid-19 patients,” it said.The trial will be a randomised, open-label study for which Glenmark will soon start recruiting about 158 patients.Monika Tandon, head of Glenmark’s clinical development global specialty, said: “Combining antiviral agents that have a good safety profile and act on different stages of viral life-cycle is an effective treatment approach to rapidly suppress initial high viral load and lead to overall improvement in clinical parameters.“We consider Glenmark’s study will be pivotal in leading to identification of highly effective and safe treatments against Covid-19 in India. Beyond its many potential patient treatment benefits, we hope the combination therapy will reduce infection risk in medical professionals and healthcare workers by reducing the duration of virus shedding from treated patients.”The new combination clinical trial will be called FAITH – (FA vipiravir plus Um I fenovir (efficacy and safety) Trial in Indian Hospital setting – and 158 hospitalised patients of moderate Covid-19 infection will be enrolled in the combination study and randomised in two groups.One group will receive Favipiravir and Umifenovir (with standard supportive care), and another group will receive Favipiravir with standard supportive care.Patients in the arm receiving the drug will receive Favipiravir 1800mg dose and Umifenovir 800 mg bid on Day 1. Thereafter patients will receive Favipiravir 800mg bid and Unifenovir 800mg bid for the remaining course of the treatment.Duration of the treatment will be 14 days and patients will be discharged after clinical cure and two consecutive negative tests for Covid-19 based on RT-PCR tests.About two weeks ago, Glenmark received approvals for clinical trials on Favipiravir by the drugs controller. The firm aims to recruit 150 patients in nine government and private hospitals across the country for this, and has so far recruited 30 patients. The results for only Favipiravir phase 3 clinical trials are expected by July-August.“We will do all it takes to ensure accessibility of the product across the country if the clinical trials are successful,” said Sujesh Vasudevan, Glenmark’s president for India formulations, Middle East and Africa business.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/glenmark-to-study-efficacy-of-two-antiviral-drugs-for-treating-covid-19/story-AbssLxX43dvBfMfAi6JN3K.html
26-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Supreme Court seeks RBI response on loan interest waiver and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times. Supreme Court seeks RBI response on loan interest waiverThe decision of banks to charge interest at a time when there is a moratorium on payment of equated monthly installments or EMIs has come under judicial scanner. The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the Centre and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to respond to a petition which termed such a move as unconstitutional. Read more.Delhi greenlights 11 containment zones, finds new Covid-19 hotspotsEleven Covid-19 containment zones have turned green in the national capital Delhi over the last four days, a sign that the steps taken by authorities to curtail the spread of the disease in the coronavirus hotspots were effective in many places, a senior city government official told Hindustan Times. Read more. ‘Not his personal property’: Rahul Gandhi to CM Yogi on permission to hire UP workersFormer Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday described as “absolutely absurd” chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s comment that other states will have to seek his government’s permission to engage workers from Uttar Pradesh, saying people are not his personal property. Read more. Football will be hard without fans: Robin Singh on possibility of ISL, I-League behind closed doorsIn December 2018, India football captain Sunil Chhetri made an emotional appeal on Twitter to the Indian football fans to fill up the stadium after a match against Chinese Taipei at Intercontinental Cup 2018 in Mumbai. Read more. Salman Khan sends sheer korma ingredients as Eid treat to 5000 families, fans say ‘Love you bhaijaan’Salman Khan spread some festive cheer on Eid by sending treats to 5,000 underprivileged families amid the coronavirus pandemic. Each special kit given out by Salman contained the ingredients to make sheer korma, an Eid special delicacy. Read more. Microsoft to continue investing in Skype, new features coming soonMicrosoft has been particularly focused on Teams especially during this lockdown as user activity grew exponentially. Microsoft Skype on the other hand is being overshadowed by Teams. Read more. Coronavirus pandemic: Are faceprint face masks the latest fashion accessory?The coronavirus pandemic has brought out the most innovative side of people and has turned the unassuming facemask with its one-dimensional protective purpose into a fashion accessory and a must-have. Read more. SAV’s supremacy in Bihar board results ends, only 3 out of 41 in top 10The class 10 board results of the Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) has brought bad news for state’s premiere school, Simultala Awasiya Vidyalay (SAV), which held sway in the top 10 in the last five years. Read more. How safe is flying? Vistara CCO answers | On The RecordIn the latest episode of On The Record, Hindustan Times’ Sunetra Choudhury speaks to Vistara Chief Commercial Officer Vinod Kannan. As domestic flights resume in the country after two months, Kannan talks about the safety measures they have adopted amid covid-19 crisis. Kannan also answers queries about compressed cabin air and how much extra time one should add to his/her journey. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-supreme-court-seeks-rbi-response-on-loan-interest-waiver-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Krt7wxnH5FY25rw61e22ZL.html
26-05-2020||India||Man murders live-in partner in Haridwar, stuffs body in suitcase, say cops||A 26-year-old man from Bihar allegedly murdered his 23-year-old live-in partner in Haridwar by strangulating her, stuffed her body in a suitcase before fleeing with her friend, police saidThe deceased was a resident of Madhya Pradesh. Both the man and the woman used to work in the same company in Haridwar. Both the man and the woman’s friend are absconding.The incident happened on Friday but came to light late Sunday night after neighbours informed the police about a foul smell coming out of the couple’s apartment which was locked from outside, Kamlesh Upadhyay, superintendent of police Haridwar (city) said, During the investigation, police found that the woman, a resident of Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh was in a relationship with the accused and was living with him.The accused is from Vaishali district in Bihar. Upadhyay said, “Both first used to work together in Gwalior where they developed a relationship and later shifted to Delhi last year where they joined the same e-commerce company. Later in December last year, both along with about 90 others from their company shifted to the industrial unit of State Industrial Development Corporation of Uttarakhand Limited in Haridwar.”The whole group started living in the same residential area where the man and the woman also rented an apartment.“The accused started getting close with another woman in his building which increased problems between him and the deceased. On Friday, while the two were in their apartment, the accused strangled her to death. He then stuffed her body in a suitcase in an effort to hide it and fled after locking the apartment,” said Upadhyay. The police officer said during the probe, the other woman was also found to be missing which “suggested that she must have fled with the man.”Another police officer privy to the probe on the condition of anonymity said, “The neighbours had said that on Friday, the man had put loud music in his apartment so that the woman’s screams were not heard. He murdered that night.”Police found some clues about the whereabouts of the other woman.“On Tuesday we have found clues about the whereabouts of the woman and will soon nab her to know about the prime accused. Investigations are on in the case and the two will be nabbed soon,” said Upadhyay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-murders-live-in-partner-in-haridwar-stuffs-body-in-suitcase-say-cops/story-cO6VJvOrGO14iUNHE9UebP.html
26-05-2020||India||HT City spotlight: Beating lockdown gloom like a boss||Covid-19 has been particularly cruel to the older generation. The isolation from loved ones is taxing for senior citizens who live alone. As we devote this fortnight to the care of the elderly, we talk to people who are using this time to renew their hobbies. They share tips on how the elderly can get through the lockdown with a smile! Kathak exponent Shovana Narayan, 69, says, “This period can help you learn new avenues of communication. Since my students wanted online dance classes, I familiarised myself with Facebook Live and Instagram Live.”Art can be immensely healing and you don’t have to be a professional to pick up the brush, says artist Sanjay Bhattarcharya, 62. “Artworks inspired by nature kept me busy. Art has a therapeutic effect,” he says. Publisher Karan Puri, 69, says, “Reading has kept me happy. It’s an asset to maintain emotional and intellectual equilibrium. I read Tuesdays with Morrie again in the lockdown and would suggest others to read it, too.” Even dressing up can boost your mood, says model Sapna Dutta, 62. “I’ve been dressing up, putting on makeup and clicking my own pictures! If you have not been into selfies, just put on your perfect smile and create some self-portraits,” she says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-city-spotlight-beating-lockdown-gloom-like-a-boss/story-saqyO6rRkTMUZskfJiITdM.html
26-05-2020||India||Congress leader demands more contingents of Army to help cyclone-ravaged Bengal||Congress leader in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking more contingents of Army for West Bengal, which has been ravaged by Cyclone Amphan.In the letter, Chowdhury has said that the West Bengal administration has “miserably failed” to cope with this disastrous situation.“Out of desperation,” Chowdhury starts his letter, “I do like to draw your kind attention that there is no tangible improvement of post-Amphan devastation in West Bengal, which has already assumed catastrophic dimension.”He then describes the situation and says there is no electricity in large parts of the state including capital Kolkata. He also says that there is acute shortage of drinking water and there are fears of water contamination.Chowdhury is an MP from Berhampore in West Bengal. He has served as the president of the Bengal unit of the Congress.At least five columns of the Army were pressed into service in Kolkata last week at the request of the state government to help in road clearances, along with teams of the National Disaster Response Force and State Disaster Response Force.The National Disaster Response Force had earlier said they were putting together 10 more teams to help the state. The state already has 26 NDRF teams in the cyclone affected areas of Bengal.The Centre had also released Rs 1,000 crore to the West Bengal government, as announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi when he visited the state on Friday last week to take stock of the devastation caused by the cyclone.Cyclone Amphan, the most severe storm in the Bay of Bengal since the super cyclone of 1999, made landfall around 20km east of Sagar Island in the Sunderbans on Wednesday last week, cutting off road links, snapping telecommunications and power lines. It killed about 86 people in West Bengal including about 15 in state capital Kolkata.The Bengal government had earlier in the day asked the railways ministry to stop the Shramik Special trains from reaching the state till May 26, pointing that the district administration was already stretched to its limits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-demands-more-contingents-of-army-to-help-cyclone-ravaged-bengal/story-g9DNMzJ8emiBlV1D07WqsN.html
26-05-2020||India||Supreme Court seeks RBI response on plea that seeks loan interest waiver||The decision of banks to charge interest at a time when there is a moratorium on payment of equated monthly installments or EMIs has come under judicial scanner. The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the Centre and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to respond to a petition which termed such a move as unconstitutional. The court will hear the matter next week.With offices and shops closed on account of lockdown, the RBI had on March 27 ordered a three-month moratorium till May 31 on EMIs. It was meant to ease the financial burden on borrowers during the lockdown. This period was further extended till August 31 by a recent RBI circular.Borrowers who availed this facility were in for a rude shock as the lending banks informed them that the interest during this period (March-August) will get added to their loan amount. This would prolong the loan installments. Alternatively, the borrowers could get their interest component increased.Faced with this fate, an Uttar Pradesh resident approached the Supreme Court to challenge this decision of the banks. In his petition, Gajendra Sharma told the court that since the lockdown is in place, there is no means for citizens to earn a livelihood. Sharma has an optical shop in Agra and had availed of a home loan of over Rs 37 lakh from ICICI Bank.Sharma’s petition said, “In the present scenario, when all the means of livelihood has been curtailed by the Government of India by imposition of complete lockdown pan-India, due to worldwide outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic and the petitioner being a citizen of India has no way to continue his work and earn livelihood, imposition of interest during the moratorium will defeat the purpose of permitting moratorium on loans.”The bench of justices Ashok Bhushan, SK Kaul and MR Shah issued notice to the Centre and RBI on the petition and posted the matter for hearing next week. The petitioner argued that “imposition of interest during the moratorium period is completely devastating and wrong” as the decision of the RBI recognises the hardship faced by borrowers in the context of a national lockdown.It may be recalled that in April, the apex court had refused to entertain a petition seeking similar relief. The court had dismissed the case as it was not filed by an affected party. Sharma claimed to be directly affected by the levy of interest and claimed to be unable to repay his loan. The petitioner is a resident of Dayal Bagh in Agra and stated his annual income to be less than rupees seven lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-seeks-rbi-response-on-loan-interest-waiver/story-UrrYMAUiTIqPPlXy4LDUVP.html
26-05-2020||India||Supreme Court seeks response of four states in Sharjeel Imam’s plea to club FIRs||The Supreme Court on Tuesday sought responses from Assam, Manipur, Uttar Pradesh and Arunachal Pradesh to a plea by JNU student Sharjeel Imam, seeking the clubbing of FIRs against him in those states for alleged offences of sedition and hate speech.The bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan issued notice to the four states after solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Delhi government, told the court that all states where first information reports (FIRs) have been registered should be heard by the court before passing any order.The states were given two weeks to file their responses.Delhi is another jurisdiction where a case has been registered against the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student. The top court issued notice to the Delhi government on May 1 and its reply is expected by Wednesday.Imam, currently held in a Guwahati jail, has been booked for his alleged role in violence at Jamia Millia Islamia University in the aftermath of protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA).Imam was arrested from Bihar’s Jehanabad on January 28 by Delhi Police for a speech he delivered on December 13, two days after which protesters, who had gathered outside the Jamia Millia Islamia campus, clashed with police during a march against the citizenship law.Imam, in a speech delivered at Aligarh Muslim University on January 16, had said Assam should be “cut off” from the rest of the country. He later clarified he was calling for blocking roads leading to Assam as part of protests against CAA.Aside from sedition (section 124A of the Indian Penal Code) and hate speech (section 153A of the Indian Penal Code), Imam was booked under section 13 of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), a law aimed at punishing those involved in terrorism and activities intended to bring about secession of any part of the country.Imam’s counsel, Siddharth Dave, on Tuesday cited the case of Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami, who too had approached the Supreme Court to consolidate all FIRs against him in different states for hate speech.The Supreme Court had, on May 19, quashed multiple FIRs against Goswami and retained only the first FIR against him at Nagpur.Dave asked the top court to adopt the same approach in Imam’s case but Tushar Mehta opposed this, saying the issues involved in the two cases are different.“FIRs in Arnab’s case were cyclostyled. Not in this case,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-response-of-four-states-in-sharjeel-imam-s-plea-to-club-firs/story-OcXDbtWxLBuWbHuZTTgVpM.html
26-05-2020||India||Goa may issue separate SOP for travellers from Maharashtra: CM Pramod Sawant||Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant indicated on Tuesday the government will issue separate guidelines for people arriving in the state from Maharashtra, which has the maximum number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country. “We are thinking of bringing in a different set of SOP for people who will be coming from Maharashtra as 90% of the [Covid-19] patients in Goa are from Maharashtra,” Pramod Sawant was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The comment came after 11 people, who arrived from Mumbai on Saturday on the Rajdhani Express, reported positive for Covid-19.Goa has so far registered 67 cases of the coronavirus disease, all of whom arrived in the state within the last two weeks after inter-state travel restrictions were eased. Out of the 67 patients, 19 have recovered. Another person tested Covid-19 positive on Monday. The patient travelled with another person who came to Goa and tested positive two days ago.Vishwajit Rane, Goa’s health minister, had said on Sunday that he will request the chief minister to implement stringent measure to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease.“In view of upsurge of cases in the state via railways, roadways and others, I will be meeting the Hon’ble Chief Minister @DrPramodPSawant to brief him on the present status in order to curb the rising cases. We will be requesting Hon’ble CM to implement stringent measures (sic),” Rane had tweeted on Sunday.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-may-issue-separate-sop-for-travellers-from-maharashtra-cm-pramod-sawant/story-xHy7MPbhEwbW4N1uGlg6EI.html
26-05-2020||India||In Delhi’s new Covid-19 figures, continuing concern and a silver lining||Eleven Covid-19 containment zones have turned green in the national capital Delhi over the last four days, a sign that the steps taken by authorities to curtail the spread of the disease in the coronavirus hotspots were effective in many places, a senior city government official told Hindustan Times.The locations that have emerged out of the containment zones include Nawabganj area in the central district, home to nearly 6,500 people. Besides, it also includes south district’s Sangam Vihar and Deoli Extension in Saket, Khirki extension and Chirag Delhi’s Jain Mohalla and the police colony in north district’s Model Town police colony.The exclusion of these containment zones, however, has not reduced their total number because Covid-19 cases continue to be reported from new locations apart from some of the hotspots.The city still has 90 active containment zones, more or less the figure a few days earlier. Of these, 50 are in the red and have reported cases over the last fortnight.“But this also implies that approximately a dozen containment zones that were in the red have been moved to the orange category did not report a single case over the last fortnight and were classified as orange,” a second government official said.Delhi has added over 400 Covid-19 patients over the past 24 hours to push the national capital’s Covid-19 count closer to the 15,000-mark.Also, 12 more people died of the disease. In all, the city has lost 288 lives due to the coronavirus cases.The city’s Covid-19 count stands at 14,465. Nearly 48% of them have already recovered. 183 more were reported to have been cured in the last 24 hours.Of the remaining 7,223, only about 2,092 are being treated at government and private hospitals. The rest are mild cases and told to stay home in isolation.But there are 185 patients who have had to be admitted to the intensive care unit for treatment, another 27 are on ventilators.Officials suggest that the fluctuations in the daily reported cases were on expected lines.That the city needs to get used to the idea of the virus around is a point that has been repeatedly made by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, who underscored that he would get worried only if there is a sharp spike in the number of deaths.Or a spike in the number of patients requiring hospitalisation or intensive care. That could lead to a collapse of the health infrastructure system.“But it is not so… Most cases that are surfacing these days are those of patients with either mild or no symptoms, which are not required to be admitted in hospital,” Kejriwal, who has been working closely with Lt Governor Anil Baijal, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-greenlights-11-containment-zones-finds-new-covid-19-hotposts/story-WJlZKOcfj9fPRYCC0gVqgM.html
26-05-2020||India||Lead, cadmium found in foodgrain grown around Jojari river in Jodhpur, claims study||A recent study has revealed that the foodgrain being grown around rainy river Jojari in Rajasthan’s Jodhpur has presence of heavy metals like lead, cadmium etc. And the levels are much higher than the permissible limit prescribed by the World Health organisation (WHO).The study was carried out by the Department of Chemistry of Jai Narayan Vyas University with support from the University Grant Commission (UGC). The team of experts from the university analysed wheat, pearl millet, sorghum, barley, corn, moong, pigeon pea, red lentil and split chickpea lentil grown in the area with atomic absorption spectrophotometre. Due to water scarcity, many farmers are using industrial effluents from tie and dye printing, steel products manufacturing and textile industries for growing different foodgrain.“We have reported an analysis of heavy metal contents in foodgrain grown in the agricultural fields of Jodhpur around the Jojari. We have collected samples from various sites around the river where industrial effluents are thrown without treatment and are readily used by the farmers,” university professor Pallavi Mishra, who led the study, said.Jojari flows from the North-East to South-West, 83 km from the hills near Pondlu village in Nagaur district. Before it meets the Luni river near Khejalda Khurd in Jodhpur district, small streams join the Jojari in the upper part.“Continuous effluent water irrigation of agricultural land has caused a large build-up of poisonous heavy metals in the effluent irrigated soil as well as in the foodgrain and vegetables grown here. The metal ion concentrations obtained in our samples were compared with the permissible limits as prescribed by WHO and FAO. After carrying out sample testing of different grains, we found alarmingly high concentrations of cadmium, lead, zinc, nickel, copper and chromium. The concentrations of six heavy metals in study were found to be well above the standards specified by the WHO and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR),” she added.In Rajasthan, cereals and millets are the major source of nutrients and the most commonly consumed food. Approximately 85 per cent of the population is vegetarian and mainly survives on millets, cereals and pulses. Indira Gandhi canal water is the main source of potable water and agricultural produce in the area. Rain is observed only in the monsoon season; drought-like condition prevails in rest of the months. Due to water scarcity, industrial effluents and sewage water is used for irrigation in many areas of Jodhpur, especially around the Jojari River which has become a dumping ground for all kinds of waste water.“Even a slightly high concentration of these metals is dangerous for human beings and animals. An increasing number of cancer cases, gastrointestinal problems, skin problems in people living in the areas from where samples were collected have also been reported,” said professor Mishra.Consultant Physician Dr Sawai Jain said that heavy metals are harmful to human health. Such foodgrain, when consumed by people, may cause cancer, skin allergies, peptic ulcers and acidity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lead-cadmium-found-in-foodgrain-grown-around-jojari-river-in-jodhpur-claims-study/story-QLccIxkvNWNOySko3UbhZI.html
26-05-2020||India||Sariska’s tiger population goes up to 20 with three new cubs||The number of tigers in Rajasthan’s Sariska Tiger Reserve (STR) has gone up to 20 with the birth of three cubs recently.Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot took to Twitter to hail the good news.“Amid Corona concern, tigress ST-12 gives good news. Three new cubs have been camera trapped in Sariska Tiger Reserve. Now there are 20 tigers in year 2020 in #Sariska. My wish is to see the wild life thrives in state,” he tweeted.In March 2020, after a two year wait, Sariska tigress ST-10 and her cub was spotted in the Talvriksh range. STR now has 20 big cats, of which 11 are female, 5 male and rest cubs.STR Field Director, Ghanshyam Prasad Sharma, said this is the second litter of three cubs of 6-year-old ST-12 – the cubs are three months old. In 2018, she had given birth to three cubs which dispersed after they became adults.“This year has been good for the Reserve as five tigers – three cubs of ST-12 and two of ST-14 became adults while four cubs have been born,” said Sharma.He also said that after a long time, two tigers ST-18 (son of ST-14) and ST-19 (daughter of ST-12) have started moving in the buffer zone.Former Indian Forest Service officer and president of Sariska Tiger Foundation, Sunayan Sharma welcomed the news of the new cubs.“STR is certainly a potential habitat and can support a good number of big cat population. The current number of 20 can increase up to 35 but for that we need to reduce grazing in and outside the Reserve,” he said.Meanwhile, the Ranthambore Tiger Reserve is also expecting cubs from three tigresses, which have not been seen in the last 2-3 months. “Tigresses T-19, 102 and 92 either have or would be giving birth to cubs. The three have not been seen for the last 2-3 months,” said Manoj Parashar, Field Director, Ranthambore Tiger Reserve||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sariska-s-tiger-population-goes-up-to-20-with-three-new-cubs/story-Ei0gIzhglyiTAo4B58MkSN.html
26-05-2020||India||Prakash Javadekar attacks Rahul Gandhi for calling lockdown a failed attempt||Union minister Prakash Javadekar on Tuesday described Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s news conference as an example of how the Congress is politicising the Covid-19 pandemic at a time when the whole country is fighting it.“He gave a wrong statement, I want to tell him, when the lockdown was imposed, the doubling rate of infection was three days. Now, the infection takes 13 days to double. This is India’s success and everyone’s success,” Javadekar said. Javadekar, who holds the portfolio of information and broadcasting and environment and forests, accused the Congress of double speak and said the party has only been critical of the government’s decisions at a time when the rest of the world has praised steps taken by India to halt the spread of the coronavirus.“When the lockdown was imposed, the Congress was upset why it was imposed across the country, the economy will be destroyed. They opposed the imposition of the lockdown and now are opposing the relaxation. This is their double speak,” he said.“Compared to the losses faced by America, France, Britain, Spain, Italy, Iran, Brazil, and China, India has been relatively less affected and for this, the whole world is praising India, that they imposed the lockdown at the right time.”Javadekar countered the accusation that the government had failed to address concerns of migrant workers, and said 300,000 workers were safely transported in 3,000 trains special by the government. “It is a historic step. Uttar Pradesh and Karanataka made cash transfers and gave money to the workers, which Congress ruled state is doing this? I don’t want to argue on this, because it is a time of national calamity. But people will not listen to lies anymore,” he said. “They (the Congress) are asking for Rs7,500 per person, we have offered 80 crore people 25kg of rice and 5kg of dal for five months free. Ten crore migrants workers with no ration cards have been given 10kg of grain and 2kg of dal for free. Twenty crore women got Rs500 per month and nine crore farmers got Rs2,000 in their accounts, eight crore households got three gas cylinders free, and 50 lakh street vendors have got money too,” he said, elaborating on the steps taken by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prakash-javadekar-attacks-rahul-gandhi-for-calling-lockdown-a-failed-attempt/story-6E8FlvjU1rFfXoRD0psFlJ.html
26-05-2020||India||‘Not personal property of UP’: Rahul Gandhi to CM Yogi on hiring workers||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday described as “absolutely absurd” chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s comment that other states will have to seek his government’s permission to engage workers from Uttar Pradesh, saying people are not his personal property.“I think it’s unfortunate. I think people are first Indian and then they belong to their states. The decision on whether somebody goes to work from Uttar Pradesh to the rest of the country is not the chief minister’s. It is of the people of India and the people of Uttar Pradesh,” Gandhi told a news conference held via video conference.Interacting with the media at a webinar organised by the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) publication Organiser on Sunday, Adityanath had said other states will have to seek permission from his government before hiring workers from Uttar Pradesh.“If any state wants manpower, the state government will have to guarantee social security and insurance of the workers. Without our permission they will not be able to take our people…because of the way they were treated in some states,” he had said.But Gandhi dismissed Adityanath’s remarks.“If a citizen of Uttar Pradesh wants to go and fulfil his dreams in Maharashtra or in Delhi or in Karnataka or anywhere else, he should have the right to do so,” he said.“It is very unfortunate that the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh views India in such a way. These people are not his personal property. They are not the personal property of Uttar Pradesh. These people are Indian citizens and they have the right to decide what they want to do and they have the right to live the life they want to live,” Gandhi added.“It is our job to support them to fulfil their dreams. It is not our job to say that you belong to me, you cannot go and work in Maharashtra. It’s an absolutely absurd position,” the former Congress chief said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/absolutely-absurd-rahul-on-yogi-s-remark-on-hiring-up-workers/story-YjGcglWbYgg50WU2hGYDKL.html
26-05-2020||India||‘India facing result of failed lockdown’: Rahul Gandhi attacks Centre||Continuing his attack on Central government amid a growing number of Covid-19 cases, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said that the country is “facing the result of a failed lockdown”.While conducting a live interaction with reporters Gandhi said, “India is the only country where the virus is exponentially rising and we are removing the lockdown. The aim and purpose of the lockdown have failed. India is facing the result of a failed lockdown.”He further said that the Congress party wants to understand the next step of the government.“Now we want to understand the next strategy of the government as four phases of the lockdown have not produced the result that the Prime Minister expected,” he said.The Congress leader said that the Prime Minister and his entire advisory staff including top medical people said that the virus will start reducing towards the end of May and now it is clear that the disease is not reducing.“The Prime Minister and his entire advisory staff including top medical people said that the disease would start to reduce towards the end of May and now it is clear that the disease is not reducing, it is increasing,” he said.A few days ago, Gandhi had conducted a live interaction in which he had said that Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s daily press conferences were only adding to the confusion, making India increasingly sceptical and restless.He also suggested that the Centre consider the list of recommendations prepared by his party for the government’s economic stimulus package.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-facing-result-of-failed-lockdown-rahul-gandhi-attacks-centre/story-i3PEYNIqsAJRrjWHrNdxIN.html
26-05-2020||India||Flood alert for Assam, heavy rain likely in Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh||The Central Water Commission (CWC) has issued a severe flood situation alert for the Brahmaputra river in Assam’s Neamati Ghat and Jiabharali in Jorhat and Sonitpur districts, respectively. Parts of Assam and neighbouring Meghalaya have been receiving extremely heavy rains since May 20 after super cyclone Amphan weakened.The highest flood level for the Brahmaputra in the Jorhat stretch is 87.37 metres and the current level is 85.78 metre. In Jiabharali, the highest flood level is 78.5 metres and the current level is 77.36 metres.Beki in Barpeta; Lohit in Tinsukia and the Dibrugarh stretch of the Brahmaputra and many of its tributaries have also recorded above-normal flood levels.“The district-level rainfall data is being compiled, but parts of Meghalaya, Assam and Arunachal Pradesh have received extremely heavy rains in the past five days, which is likely to continue for another three days at least. Southwesterly moisture-laden winds are converging from the Bay of Bengal in the region. The rains aren’t likely to recede immediately,” said K Sathi Devi, head, National Weather Forecasting Centre.“Cherrapunji has received 1,105 millimetres of rain in the last four days. We’re still compiling the data, which is a departure from normal. There’ll be more flooding in the region, as rains are not likely to stop for the next few days. But the intensity of rainfall may reduce after two-three days. Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura will also experience heavy rains soon,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology and climate, Skymet Weather.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flood-alert-for-assam-exceptionally-heavy-rain-likely-in-meghalaya-and-arunachal-pradesh/story-KwWXSe0N1qoTNjHp8pcVUN.html
26-05-2020||India||Locusts are halal in Islam and other interesting facts about the migratory pests||Locusts have invaded western India. The swarms, that entered the country from Pakistan, are spreading like wildfire and have so far invaded five states: Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh. There is an alert for national capital Delhi too.What makes locusts a concern for farmers and agriculturists is that they can eat almost every type of crop and finish an entire field in few hours.But there are some interesting facts about the migratory pests. Here are a few of them:• Locusts are considered halal or lawful food in Islam. According to Salafi Centre in Manchester, locusts are permissible food because it was eaten during the time of the Prophet. The pests were eaten during a military raid, said an authentic hadith, according to Salafi Centre.• The desert locusts, the sub-species of the grasshopper-like pests, originated in Saudi Arabia and is eaten there. Even the Yemenis savour locusts during Ramzan. There are reports that some European travellers had seen people in Saudi Arabia, Egypt and Morocco selling, cooking and eating locusts.• Locust swarms have been recorded in the Arabian peninsula and some African countries since biblical times, but unusual weather patterns exacerbated by climate change have created ideal conditions for insect numbers to surge, scientists say.• These warms have infested 23 countries across East Africa, the Middle East and South Asia in 2020, the biggest outbreak in 70 years, the World Bank said. Last week, the bank approved a record $500 million in grants and low-interest loans to help countries in Africa and the Middle East fight swarms of desert locusts.• Adult desert locust swarms can fly up to 150 km a day with the wind and adult insects can consume roughly their own weight in fresh food per day. A single square kilometre swarm can eat as much food in a day as 35,000 people.• They feed on nearly all green vegetation - leaves, flowers, bark, stems, fruit, and seeds - and crops including millet, rice, maize, sorghum, sugarcane, barley, cotton, fruit trees, date palm, vegetables, rangeland grasses, acacia, pines and banana.• Desert locusts change their behaviour from acting as individuals to becoming part of a group, forming dense and mobile hordes. Swarms can be several hundred square kilometres and extremely dense, with up to 80 million adults in each square kilometre.• The last major infestation was in 2003-2005 when more than 12 million hectares were treated in west and northwest Africa, costing hundreds of millions of dollars, including food aid.Sources: Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations; Government of New South Wales; Victoria State Government; University of Minnesota; Natural Earth; European Space Agency Climate Change Initiative; United States Geological Survey via Famine Early Warning Systems Network; Armed Conflict Location & Event Data Project (ACLED); Reuters||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/locusts-are-halal-in-islam-and-other-interesting-facts-about-the-migratory-pests/story-6b7sQnKXr7g4g4XrCJpjyM.html
26-05-2020||India||Government should come clear on Ladakh standoff with China: Rahul Gandhi||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday urged the government to come clean on the border standoff with China, saying there should be transparency on the issue.“What we would like to see is some more transparency on what is going on. It becomes difficult for us to have a position without understanding the facts. I think the government should make it clear to the people of India what exactly is happening on the border,” he told a news conference held through video conference.Indian and Chinese soldiers are engaged in an eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation at four locations along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) since early May, and several rounds of talks between local military commanders, including a meeting on Monday, have failed to end the standoff that began with violent clashes between troops from both sides in the Sikkim and Ladakh sectors three weeks ago. The external affairs ministry has rejected China’s contention that Indian troops trespassed across the LAC, and accused Chinese forces of hindering patrols of the Indian side of the disputed border. China is said to have marshalled more than 5,000 soldiers on its side of the disputed border in Ladakh sector, where India too has sent military reinforcements to strengthen its defences as growing tensions along the LAC threaten to plunge bilateral relations to a new low.Gandhi said, “We are hearing different stories. I don’t want to go into conjecture and it won’t be appropriate for me to comment on it without knowing the details. But it is important that the government of India makes it clear what is happening on the border so that the people can understand and they have a position. “Frankly, there is no clarity. What is happening with China in Ladakh or Nepal, there should be transparency. I don’t see that transparency. Regarding China, it is a live issue so I don’t want to comment on that. I leave that to the wisdom of the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-should-come-clear-on-ladakh-standoff-with-china-rahul/story-kjLWlyQub4hfcT7HpAz6WI.html
26-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: After Uddhav Thackeray, Sharad Pawar meeting, Sena says ‘govt is strong’ and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.After Uddhav Thackeray, Sharad Pawar meeting, Sena says ‘govt is strong’Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with NCP president Sharad Pawar here, senior Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said on Tuesday while asserting that the state government is “strong”. Read more70,000 cases in 15 days: Tracking the rapid spread of Covid-19 across IndiaThe rate of infection of the coronavirus disease has been increasing in the country, an analysis of the infection data by Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan shows. Nearly 7,000 cases were reported on Monday, taking the overall tally to 1,38,845. Read moreWhat if a player tests positive on Day 2 of a match: Rahul Dravid questions bio-secure environment ideaFormer India captain Rahul Dravid feels the ambition to resume cricket in a bio-secure environment is “unrealistic”, giving a thumbs down to the concept primarily floated by the England and Wales Cricket Board. Read moreXiaomi’s wireless Redmi Earbuds S launched in India at ₹1,799: Specifications, availability and moreXiaomi’s sub-brand Redmi today launched its wireless earphones in India, the Earbuds S. Priced at ₹1,799, the audio accessory comes in Black and is expected to be a rival to the recently launched Realme Buds Air Neo, which is priced at ₹2,999. Read moreGulabo Sitabo trailer featuring Amitabh Bachchan and Ayushmann Khurrana is Mumbai Police’s new advisory meme inspirationGulabo Sitabo trailer featuring Amitabh Bachchan and Ayushmann Khurrana has sparked an online chatter. Mumbai Police took the opportunity of the hype to share an advisory using a meme inspired from the trailer to put forth a message for people. Read moreThe Taste with Vir: The unloved restaurant businessWhen the lockdown first started, the restaurant business knew it was in trouble. At that time, nobody thought the lockdown would last this long. Or that, even after the lockdown was lifted, restaurants would not be allowed to re-open. Read moreCovid-19: Deaths cross 4k mark in India, WHO suspends trials of HCQHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of covid-19 cases in India, deaths in the country due to the virus, WHO’s decision to suspend trial of HCQ, spread of covid in all 3 of Delhi’s jails, outbreak of ‘Banana Covid’ and more. Read morePriyanka Chopra honours army officer parents with throwback pic, Parineeti Chopra call it their ‘best photo’On the occasion of Memorial Day, actor Priyanka Chopra shared a picture of her parents in their army uniforms. Memorial Day is an American holiday for honouring and mourning the military personnel who have died while serving in the United States Armed Forces. Read moreElon Musk and Grimes change their son’s name, a bit. Memes remain hilarious thoughElon Musk previously announced that his newborn son’s name is “X Æ A-12.” From creative memes to questions about the name’s pronunciation, Twitter landed into a tizzy after the announcement. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times/story-QkgXWqr6oMNi9YZUtGzZQL.html
26-05-2020||India||‘Request PM Modi to play on front foot’: Rahul Gandhi on lockdown exit plan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s initial plan to defeat coronavirus in 21 days has failed and that has pushed him on the backfoot, said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, urging the PM to play on the front foot. Stressing his point further, the Congress leader said there has been one lockdown after another, but that has not helped check the spread of the disease. The country is presently in the fourth phase of lockdown, which will end on May 31.“The PM will accept that his first plan failed. The PM has gone on back foot, I request him to play on the front foot,” said the Congress leader during a press interaction.Gandhi said he is not going to criticise what happened in the past as he has an interest in today and what will happen tomorrow. “Two months ago the PM said that we were going to fight a 21-day fight against Covid-19. It was his expectation that we would defeat the virus in 21 days,” said the Congress leader. The Wayanad MP said the aim of lockdown has not been achieved and the coronavirus cases are on the rise. He exhorted the government to tell the country what is the new strategy.“We need an injection of money and capital, it will be fatal if we do not do it. The unemployment situation in the country has been compounded by the coronavirus problem,” said Rahul Gandhi.Speaking about the migrants’ situation, the Congress leader said in his meetings with them he was told that they have lost faith. “They have a sense of hopelessness, they have been left alone. They have told me ‘hamara bharosa toot gaya (Have lost faith)’. I don’t like hearing those words. I don’t want a single Indian person to say those words. They are saying it more and more. Nobody should lose their faith. We can take action even now. Rs 7,500 should be given to workers every month,” said Gandhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/request-pm-modi-to-play-on-front-foot-rahul-gandhi/story-ZTGZb0xXOXhSRpTcQtIpjO.html
26-05-2020||India||Bengal issues guidelines for air travel. Here’s what you need to know||West Bengal has released its guidelines for air travellers arriving in the state on domestic flights from Thursday, more than two months after flight operations were banned to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.West Bengal, Tripura and Andhra Pradesh were among the states who did not open their skies on Monday when most allowed domestic flight operations to restart.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAmong the guidelines for air passengers are submission of self-declaration forms on arrival and monitoring their health for 14 days. Here’s what you need to follow if you are planning to travel to West Bengal:* You will be required to submit self-declaration form at the time of arrival to the state health officials.* At the airport, during boarding and travel, you will have to use face covers or masks. You will also follow hand hygiene, respiratory etiquette and maintain social distancing norms.* You will have to undergo health screening at the point of departure and only asymptomatic passengers shall be allowed to board the plane. On arrival, health screening shall be done for all the passengers.* The guideline said asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to go with the advice that they shall self monitor their health for 14 days. In case they develop any symptoms, they shall inform the local medical officer or state call centre at 1800 313 444 222/033-23412600,2357 3636/1083/1085 for medical interventions.* Samples will be collected for Covid-19 test from all symptomatic passengers. They will be taken to the nearest health facility for sample collection and health condition assessment.* Those with moderate or severe symptoms will be admitted to the dedicated Covid-19 health facility and managed accordingly. Those with mild symptoms will be asked to go for home or institutional isolation.* Further, medical interventions will be taken as per the test result.* Regular sanitisation or disinfection of the common surfaces shall be done at the airport. There should be adequate availability of soaps or sanitisers at different points in the airport.* Adequate publicity for maintenance of social distancing norms and health hygiene protocol should be done at the airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-issues-guidelines-for-air-travel-here-s-what-you-need-to-know/story-kMd6CvQFVMPyJiB6us62tK.html
26-05-2020||India||Spanish cyclist stranded in Tripura leaves after two months||A Spanish woman cyclist stranded in Tripura for more than two months because of Covid-19-related restrictions finally left the state on a special Agartala-Delhi train.After reaching Delhi, Yesenia Herrera Febles plans to catch a flight to Madrid on May 30. Febles, a nurse by profession, entered Tripura from Bangladesh via the Akhaura integrated check post on March 9. She was on a cycle tour of South Asia. She stayed in Agartala for 10 days before travelling to Kanchanpur in the state’s North district. As she was about to cross the Tripura-Mizoram boundary, a healthcare team sent her back to Agartala for a Covid-19 test. In Agartala, she was kept in a quarantine centre for 14 days and then shifted to another quarantine centre for a fortnight, Febles said.“I was allowed to enter the state after screening as I didn’t have any flu-like symptoms. But I was surprised because I was sent to two quarantine centres in Agartala where I spent 14 days each,” she said. Besides, she also faced problems in communicating with government officials as she speaks only Spanish and English. However, she managed to contact Father Paul Pudussery, in-charge of the Asha centre maintained by Holy Cross and the Missionaries of Charity, and she got food and accommodation free of cost. During her stay in Agartala, she got to know three other cyclists - Clifin J Francis, Haseeb Ahsan and Donna Ann Jacob - who planned to travel to Tokyo for the Olympic Games. Febles and the three other cyclists got involved in social service, including the distribution of food, face masks, hand sanitisers and soap among needy people during their stay in the Asha centre, said Father Paul. The three other cyclists are yet to leave Tripura.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spanish-cyclist-stranded-in-tripura-leaves-after-two-months/story-URwtENmvYYuOgNA5wmkXaP.html
26-05-2020||India||Day after biggest single-day spike, Odisha records another 79 Covid-19 cases||Odisha’s health department said on Tuesday that 79 fresh cases of coronavirus disease cases were reported in the last 24 hours, news agency ANI reported.“With 79 new Covid-19 positive cases reported today, the total tally of positive cases in the state has risen to 1517,” ANI quoted a statement from the state health department.This comes a day after the state recorded its biggest single-day spike of Covid-19 cases. The number of cases recorded on Monday were 103.Most of the Covid-19 cases were reported from Deogarh district, followed by Kendrapara at 15, Jagatsinghpura at 10 and eight from Bhadrak districts.It also reported the highest number of 99 patients recovering from the highly-infectious disease on the day, taking the total number of persons cured from Covid-19 in the state to 649.The recovery rate from the disease now stands at 45.13 per cent in Odisha, while the percentage of positive cases is 1.12, news agency PTI quoted an official in the Health and Family Welfare department as saying.PTI further reported that a suspected coronavirus patient died during treatment at hospital in Bhawanipatna. THe 35-year-old belonged to Kalahandi district and had recently returned from Tamil Nadu. The man was put on ventilator support as he had breathing problems, doctors said.So far, 28 of the state’s 30 districts have reported Covid-19 cases.Earlier, 102 positive cases were reported on May 18 and 101 on May 12.Of the total cases in Odisha, 861 are active while 649 people have recovered from the disease and seven have died, the official said.Ganjam district, which reported the return of the highest number of migrant workers from other states, continues to head the list of Covid-19 cases in the state with 353, followed by Jajpur (240), Balasore (133), Bhadrak (106), Khurda (82), Puri (81), Cuttack (59) and Kendrapara (55).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-biggest-single-day-spike-odisha-records-another-79-covid-19-cases/story-EWmqdgUm5ZSYfKLHRg6kJO.html
26-05-2020||India||Glenmark to start new phase 3 clinical trial of Covid-19 drug combination||Glenmark Pharmaceuticals on Tuesday announced a new randomised, open-label study to test the combined efficacy of two antiviral drugs Favipiravir and Umifenovir as a potential Covid-19 treatment strategy.The two antiviral drugs have a different mechanism of action, and their combination may demonstrate improved treatment efficacy by effectively tackling high viral loads in patients during an early stage of the disease, said the pharma major in a statement.Monika Tandon, Vice President and Head for Clinical Development Global Specialty and Branded Portfolio, said combining antiviral agents that have a good safety profile and act on different stages of viral life-cycle is an effective treatment approach to rapidly suppress initial high viral load and lead to an overall improvement in clinical parameters.“We consider Glenmark’s study will be pivotal in leading to the identification of highly effective and safe treatments against COVID-19 in India,” she said.“Beyond its many potential patient treatment benefits, we also hope the combination therapy will reduce infection risk among medical professionals and healthcare workers by reducing the duration of virus shedding from treated patients.”A total of 158 hospitalised patients of moderate Covid-19 infection will be enrolled in the combination study and randomised in two groups.Simultaneously, Glenmark is also conducting phase 3 clinical trials of Favipiravir as a COVID-19 monotherapy option with 150 patients, enrolled from nine leading government and private hospitals across the country. So far, 30 patients have been randomised.Glenmark Pharmaceuticals is a global research-led company with presence across generics, speciality and OTC business with operations in over 50 countries. Its key therapy focus areas globally are respiratory, dermatology and oncology. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/glenmark-to-start-new-phase-3-clinical-trial-of-covid-19-drug-combination/story-IK9v82Uf7iepeeHd7UZw5H.html
26-05-2020||India||Suspected ‘spy’ pigeon from Pakistan carrying ‘coded message’ captured in Jammu and Kashmir||A pigeon, suspected to be trained in Pakistan for spying, was captured along the International Border (IB) in Kathua district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said on Monday.They said the pigeon, carrying a “coded message”, was captured by residents of Manyari village in Hiranagar sector soon after it flew into this side from Pakistan.Security agencies concerned are working to decipher the “coded message”, the officials said.“The villagers handed over the pigeon (to the local police station) yesterday. A ring was seen attached to one of its legs with some numbers on it and a probe is on,” Senior Superintendent of Police of Kathua Shailendra Mishra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suspected-spy-pigeon-from-pakistan-carrying-coded-message-captured-in-jammu-and-kashmir/story-MOUUlWNV8yspRbWCgBSpcN.html
26-05-2020||India||Chhattisgarh: Quarantine centres in bad shape, says Opposition||Chhattisgarh’s main opposition, the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP), has alleged that the Bhupesh Baghel-led Congress government is responsible for the rampant mismanagement of state-run quarantine centres for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients, which have led to several deaths.The BJP has demanded that the state government set up an online monitoring mechanism of the quarantine centres.Click here for full Covid-19The Leader of Opposition in the Chhattisgarh legislative assembly, Dharamlal Kaushik, has alleged that widespread chaos has been reported from numerous quarantine centres and several deaths have also occurred in these facilities, as the state government is callous about the looming crisis.“These centres are in dire need of security. But the state government is not releasing the funds, which it has received from the Centre, to panchayats and urban bodies for the upkeep of these centres,” he alleged.State health minister Tribhuvaneshwar Saran Singh Deo rubbished Kaushik’s allegations and cited that deaths that occurred at these quarantine centres are all on record. He listed deaths were reported from quarantine centres in Mungeli, Balod, Balrampur and Bemtera districts, but none are them is related to Covid-19.Kaushik rattled off instances to bolster his argument. “On May 14, a 27-year-old committed suicide at a quarantine centre in Sarangarh and another youth, too, took his life at a similar facility in Balod district four days later. A teacher died on duty at a quarantine centre in Balrampur on May 19 and another youth also passed away on the same day in Bemtara district. These incidents show that the state government is not taking the occurrence of deaths at the quarantine centres seriously,” he alleged.The BJP leader alleged that these quarantine centres lack basic amenities. “It’s a torture for the stranded migrant workers, who have returned to their home state, and are lodged there. They’re all eager to run away from these centres,” he further alleged.Kaushik also blamed the state government for an inadequate number of kits to conduct Covid-19 tests. “All the migrant workers, who have come back to Chhattisgarh, haven’t been tested yet. They’re living in these quarantine centres and spreading SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, among their fellow inmates,” he alleged.Singh Deo said it’s an uphill task to manage four lakh migrant workers, who are lodged at quarantine centres located in rural areas.“The state government is doing its best. I can’t claim that all is well. But at least up to 95% of these quarantine centres are functioning properly. Besides, none of the deaths that have been reported from these quarantine centres is related to Covid-19. Eight people were tested after they passed away, but all of them tested Covid-19 negative,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-quarantine-centres-in-bad-shape-says-opposition/story-o3Kdp9SsQ0KS7EOeo0VhwO.html
26-05-2020||India||Family claims Briton unlawfully arrested in Bhopal, police say he violated lockdown norms||A British woman has accused Madhya Pradesh Police of unlawfully arresting her 29-year-old brother Sohail Hughes. As per report in British daily The Guardian, Hughes lives in Dewsbury in the United Kingdom, and had flown to India in February with the intention of returning on May 13.“Sohail Hughes, 29, had been on an extended holiday to visit family in the Gujarat region before undertaking a pilgrimage of mosques when he was detained last month,” his sister Aatika told The Guardian.“He was forced to take refuge in a mosque in Bhopal after being caught out by the swiftly implemented lockdown laws requiring people to stay off the streets. Sohail, alongside dozens of other men, had his passport seized before being kept in quarantine for more than a month inside a hostel,” Aatika, 35, futher said.The incident prompted Rajya Sabha member and Congress leader Vivek Tankha to write to Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan to withdraw charges and release the man.“The family, the British government and the British media complain that a British national has been detained for spreading Covid-19 and violating visa regulations after being caught in the mosque with other people when in fact, he has been repeatedly tested negative for Covid-19,” Tankha said in the letter, a copy of which he attached with his Twitter post on Monday. ⁦@guardian⁩ leading news daily of UK quoting Sohail Hughes Fmy describes his arrest & detention by bhopal police unlawful. He was a causal visitor with no covid + infection. Brit High Com seeks consular access. Bail application rejected. MEAs briefed. In bhopal jail. 1/2 pic.twitter.com/5gI6xuxUIZ“Am truly distressed with story of Sohail’s arrest. I have appealed to state CM and director general police MP to withdraw the FIR & seek closure of the case. Such arrests & investigations are a blot on our criminal justice system,” Tankha said.Additional director general (ADG) of police at Bhopal Upendra Jain said, “When we came to know about people in Nizamuddin markaz were found Covid-19 positive and many others who stayed with them visited different parts of the country, we searched all the mosques in Bhopal that led to detention of members of 32 jamaats including seven foreign jamaats. Each of jamaats had about 14 to 15 members. In all, 74 foreign nationals and a few other Indians with each of the jammats who accompanied them were detained.”He said, “Sohail Hughes was staying in a mosque at Ahata Rustam Khan at Shyamala Hills with another Briton and 12 others from the Ivory Coast. As per our investigation, he was a part of a jamaat and staying in the mosque. He was preaching his religion which was a violation of tourist visa conditions.”“All of them were detained and later booked for violation of tourist visa as well as under sections 188 (violation of order promulgated by government), 269 (negligently doing any act known to be likely to spread infection of any disease dangerous to life) and 270 (Malignantly doing any act known to be likely to spread any disease dangerous to life) of Indian Penal Code (IPC),” Jain further said.The police officer said that these people were produced before a local court on May 15 which sent them to jail under judicial custody for 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/family-claims-briton-unlawfully-arrested-in-bhopal-police-say-he-violated-lockdown-norms/story-cOG5IFRveRirWknXYW25EO.html
26-05-2020||India||Locusts invade Maharashtra, alert in Mathura and Delhi as swarm expands area||More parts of India are under locust attack now. The migratory pests have invaded eastern Maharashtra where four to five villages have come under attack from the locusts.The locusts are known for feasting on all sorts of plants and standing crops.The district and agriculture department personnel in Maharashtra have initiated chemical spraying on crops and vegetation to save them from the migratory pests.Also Watch: Crop-eating locusts wreak havoc in Rajasthan & MP “The swarm of desert locusts entered the state from Amravati district. It then went to Wardha and now it is in Nagpur’s Katol tehsil,” Joint director of agriculture department, Ravindra Bhosale, told news agency PTI.He further said that locusts do not travel in the night. The migratory pests travel during the day time and fly as per the wind direction. “Locusts are very dangerous to all types of vegetation. They feed on green leaves and known for devouring crops spread across on acres of land,” he added.In Uttar Pradesh’s Mathura, the district administration has formed a task force to deal with any potential locust attack in the district. The administration decided to go for early preparation keeping in view the growing locust threat.After crossing Pakistan, swarms of locusts entered India through Rajasthan on April 11. On Monday, locusts entered some residential areas of the Jaipur city.Mathura district magistrate said 200-litre Chloropyriphos has been kept as a reserve and its sellers in the area were advised not to supply the chemical outside the district.He said over a dozen tractors mounted with sprayers were kept on standby and fire brigade department asked to remain alert.The Union environment ministry had already warned in a statement last week that locust swarms have entered Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh. There is an alert for national capital Delhi.It said Rajasthan is the most affected state and added the swarm has entered the country earlier than expected.The United Nations has warned that armies of locusts swarming across continents pose a “severe risk” to India’s agriculture this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/locusts-invade-maharashtra-alert-in-mathura-and-delhi-as-swarm-expands-area/story-OLiq6r1QGebKQ5Mwh6bCYO.html
26-05-2020||India||Centre allows domestic air services by non-scheduled, private operators||The Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) on Monday said that domestic air services by non-scheduled and private operators including fixed-wing, helicopters and microlight aircraft shall resume with effect from May 25.“The government has decided for recommencement of domestic air travel by passengers with effect from May 25, which includes domestic air services by non-scheduled and Private (General Aviation) operators (Fixed Wing/Helicopters/Microlight aircraft),” read the Ministry’s directive.“In view of the need for precautionary measures to be taken by various stakeholders during COVID-19 pandemic, detailed general instructions; guidelines to be followed by passengers; and specific operating guidelines for major stakeholders (airlines, airport operators, ground handling agencies, etc) have already been issued by Ministry of Civil Aviation vide order dated May 21,” it added.Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said that 532 flights operated on Monday, the first day of resumption of domestic flights after suspension in the wake of lockdown.He said 39,231 passengers travelled by the flights and the number would increase further with the resumption of operations in Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal.The domestic flights were suspended in March due to lockdown imposed to contain the spread of coronavirus. The country is in the fourth phase of lockdown which will continue till May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-allows-domestic-air-services-by-non-scheduled-private-operators/story-QCReHxrflw3HHPAG8RBaIL.html
26-05-2020||India||After Uddhav Thackeray, Sharad Pawar meeting, Sena says ‘govt is strong’||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with NCP president Sharad Pawar here, senior Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said on Tuesday while asserting that the state government is “strong”.The two leaders met for about one-and-a-half hours late Monday evening, Raut said while dismissing speculations about the Thackeray-led government’s stability.The Sena Rajya Sabha MP, however, did not reveal what transpired between the two leaders.The meeting between Thackeray and Pawar took place after the NCP chief met state Governor B S Koshyari on Monday morning.NCP chief Sharad Pawar and Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had a meeting for one-and-a-half hours. Those doubting about the stability of this government are doing so out of their own grudge. This government is strong,” Raut tweeted in Marathi.Earlier, Pawar met Koshyari on Monday morning, following which the NCP claimed the meeting took place on the invitation of the governor and no political issues came up for discussion.However, the timing of the meeting is significant as it took place against the backdrop of strained relations between the Shiv Sena, which heads the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, and the Raj Bhavan.The NCP is one of the key constituents of MVA.Pawar was one of the key leaders from Maharashtra who had openly complained about Koshyari’s “intervention” in the functioning of the state administration.Recently, senior BJP leader and former state chief minister Devendra Fadnavis complained to the governor about the “failure” of the Thackeray government in handling the Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-uddhav-thackeray-sharad-pawar-meeting-sena-says-govt-is-strong/story-iRezLlBmUq2ZZdJPK0vGpM.html
26-05-2020||India||Despite bumper crop, prices of farm produce lowest in recent years due to Covid-19 lockdown||A kilogram of farm fresh cherry was sold at Rs 30 at Shimla wholesale market in Himachal Pradesh. The fruit of the season, Mango, was Rs 25 per kilogram at Saharanpur market in Uttar Pradesh. Tomato was selling at Rs 10 per kilogram at Siliguri (West Bengal) and onion at Rs 10 in Neemuch (Madhya Pradesh).These are the prices of vegetables and fruits in some of the wholesale markets in India in the past one week, which experts said showed a fall in the prices of non-minimum support price (MSP) farm produce. The low prices are expected to continue for some more time and experts don’t expect revival in prices of these horticulture produce in the coming few months.“The demand is at its rock bottom,” said Devendra Sharma, a Chandigarh-based independent farm expert. “The biggest consumer of the perishable products is the hospitality industry, other than individuals. There are no signs of the industry opening soon. And, when it opens, there would not be many customers. So, I don’t expect the demand to improve dramatically in the coming months,” he said.Agricultural economist in Odisha University of Agriculture and Technology, KK Sarangi, said demand for vegetables has gone down in the lockdown period as the bulk demand is not there. “Even households are not buying in huge quantities because of the infection fear. And, there are not much signs of prices reviving soon enough to last year’s level,” he said.India this summer has seen record production of fruits and vegetables due to above normal monsoon last year and good winter rainfall. The agriculture ministry’s advance horticulture produce estimate, which includes main fruits and vegetables, was 313.5 million tonne for 2020 season, highest in the past five years.The new horticulture crops start arriving in markets from March end. However, this year, a nationwide lockdown was imposed around the same time to check the spread of coronavirus disease, bringing entire country to a grinding halt. Restrictions were imposed on movement of trucks carrying non-essential goods. It created problems for farmers to take their produce to the markets. As the government eased transportation norms, some big vegetable wholesale markets, including Asia’s biggest fruit and vegetable market at Azadpur in New Delhi and Koyambedu in Chennai, were closed as they became Covid-19 hotspots.“Nobody (truckers) is willing to take my cherry produce to Delhi or Chandigarh,” said Surinder Singh Bragta, after selling his best quality cherry produce for Rs 30 a kilogram at Shimla’s wholesale fruit market. “Last year, I sold similar quality cherry for Rs 100 a kilogram in Chandigarh. I don’t know what will happen to pears and apples which could be harvested in the new few months. Commission agents are saying this would be worst year for fruits as demand is low.”More than 2,000 kilometres away in Neemuch, Tarun Baheti, a vegetable farmer, said there are no buyers in the market, other than the local ones. “After so many years, we had a good crop of vegetables. But, no one is willing to give the right price,” he said, blaming Covid-19 lockdown for crashing of the perishable goods market.“Due to lockdown restrictions, were cannot take produce to bigger markets. Vegetables like Lady finger, bottle gourd and sponge gourd used to be sold Rs 40 to Rs 50 per kg in this season but now the rate has come down to about Rs 15 per kg in the wholesale market. Pumpkin is being sold at Rs 5 to Rs 10 per kg,” he said.In Uttar Pradesh’s Barabanki district, Padma Shree awardee farmer Ram Saran Verma said this year he saw empty wholesale markets in a good harvest season. “There are no buyers. Even the cost to transport the produce to market is not being recovered,” he said. Another Barabanki farmer, Dinesh Rawat, said he has lost Rs one lakh in May alone as he was not able to send his cucumber produce to Lucknow, Sultanpur and Agra. “I had to sell it at a local mandi for whatever price it fetched,” he said. From some states such as Bihar, Odisha and Uttar Pradesh, there are reports of farmers throwing away their produce. Verma said most farmers have lost money this year and have either thrown away the produce or given it to cattle. “This year we left the produce in the field itself as there is no point in selling ladyfinger for Rs 2 per kg,” said Bechan Yadav, a farmer in rural area of Patna.Mritunjay Kumar, a farmer of Sohsarai in Nalanda district, said the cost of transporting vegetables to market is more than the selling price. “It is better to give vegetables to cattle, at least they will get some nutrition,” he said. In Odisha’s Dhenkanal district, pumpkin harvest is rotting in farms due to absence of market access as well as lower demand. Manas Barik, who had harvested 3 tonnes of pumpkins on his five-acre land in Dhenkanal found no takers. “The traders want us to sell pumpkin at Rs 5 a kg. It does not cover even transport cost,” Barik said.The distress is visible in the wholesale markets, too.In Gaddiannaram fruit market at Kothapet in Hyderabad, Telangana’s largest fruit and vegetable wholesale market, the prices are lowest in the recent years. “For the last four years, the price of mangoes was between Rs 60,000 to Rs 1.20 lakh per tonne depending on the variety. This year, it is Rs 20,000 to Rs 30,000 per tonne,” said Telangana Fruit Merchants’ Association president Ashok Kumar. He said the prices of sweat lime (Mosambi) have come down from Rs 50,000 a tonne to less than Rs 20,000 a tonne. “There is essentially no demand,” Kumar said, adding a large number of farmers were could not even recover the transport cost. At Siliguri, north Bengal’s biggest town, price of tomato on Sunday ranged between Rs 10 to 15 a kg, down from Rs 30-40 per kilogram before the lockdown came into force on March 24. In 2018, the price was around Rs 25 a kg while in 2019 it was around Rs 30, said a district agriculture officer. Ranjeet Singh, a commission agent at Delhi’s Azadpur market, said that only 20% of the buyers at turning up at the make-shift selling yard. “The prices have dipped by 70% to 80%,” Singh said.Dilshad Ahmed, a vegetable vendor in Lucknow claimed that the people were getting better quality produce at a lower price as farmers use to send their best produce directly to multi-brand retailer. “Due to lockdown farmers have been forced to sell their produce in markets,” he said. President of Neemuch Market vegetable sellers union, Hari Om, said, “Except potato, ginger and green chilli, prices of all other fruits and vegetables have fallen. Even people are not buying fruits and vegetables as they used to do earlier.” Patna district agriculture officer, Rakesh Ranjan, said the price of veggies might increase once the lockdown is fully lifted. “We hope that the farmer may start getting decent price from August onwards,” he said. Karnataka Horticulture Producers Co-operative Marketing and Processing Society (HOPCOMS) officials claimed that the prices have recovered in the past one week with easing of lockdown norms. “Prices of vegetables like onion, potato and others are more staple than the easier perishables such as greens, beans, tomato, capsicum, cucumber which wilt in the summer sun,” said an HOPCOMS official, who was not willing to be named. (With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/despite-bumper-crop-prices-of-farm-produce-lowest-in-recent-years-due-to-lockdown/story-C7b3Btu1TzGsWQWjtRtJfK.html
26-05-2020||India||Bhopal doctors claim homeopathy medicine cured Covid-19 patients, experts raise objection||A government homeopathy medical college in Bhopal on Monday night claimed to have treated as many as six Covid-19 patients successfully, prompting public health experts to raise objections against such a treatment. They also demanded an immediate ban the trial.“Six coronavirus infected patients who were admitted on May 14 are returning home having recovered from the disease. These included two children also whose parents were positive. These children too were given homeopathy medicines. No alloepathy medicine was given to children. They were only given homoepathy medicines,” a communiqué from district administration said on Monday.The communiqué quoted Dr Manoj Kumar Sahu as saying, “After knowing detailed history of all these patients homoepathy medicines were selected and the dose was decided. The result was surprising. After taking homeopathy medicines there was fast improvement in the condition of the patients and none of the patients needed oxygen support.”As per the official information, as many as 47 patients are still being treated at the homeopathy medical college.But health experts have questioned the treatment. “World health organisation (WHO)’s protocol of treatment talks about treatment only through specific alloepathy medicines. The advisory from AYUSH department of government of India is for consumption of Ayurveda decoction is only to boost the immunity of patients and others. As far as a clinical trial on Covid-19 patients through any alternative system of medicines is concerned no such trial has been allowed by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) so far,” public health expert Amulya Nidhi said.Demanding a ban on such a trial, Nidhi further said, “Such a trial and claim on successful treatment through homeopathy are not only dangerous for patients being treated this way but others also in the state and other parts of the country. The central government and the state government both are making appeals to people repeatedly to come forward to get themselves examined at alloepathy hospitals if they have any suspected symptom of Coronavirus. Such a claim on successful treatment through homeopathy may result in a section of people with Covid-19 symptoms avoiding going to government hospitals or any alloepathic doctor and relying on homeopathy treatment on their own.”Dr SN Shukla of the homeopathy medical college’s research wing said, “We are following all the protocol and guidelines of WHO in treating the patients. I can’t tell what medicines we are giving and what we are not giving. It’s the state government which earmarked our hospital as Covid care centre more than 10 days back.He also said that they are treating the patients in a scientific manner and with successful results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhopal-doctors-claim-homeopathy-medicine-cured-covid-19-patients-experts-raise-objection/story-UmioQT9i4wxGZGQdfgfPeJ.html
26-05-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally over 1.45 lakh, death toll at 4,167||India reported 145,380 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after 6,535 new infections were reported between Monday and Tuesday morning, the Union health ministry said.The health ministry data at 8am showed that 146 people, down from 154 fatalities on Monday morning, also died after contracting Covid-19. So far, 4,167 people have succumbed to the disease. The number of people who have recovered so far stood at 60,490, it said.More than half of the numbers come from four states.Maharashtra has 52,667 cases of the coronavirus disease and Tamil Nadu has the second-highest number of patients in the country with 17,082 people infected so far. Gujarat has 14,460 people who have been infected by Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19 till date and Delhi’s tally has jumped to 14,053. With a rising number of cases, more than 6,500 every day since the last four days, India now is the tenth most affected country by the coronavirus pandemic after the United States, Brazil, Russia, United Kingdom, Spain, Italy, France, Germany. India had overtaken Iran to become the 10th biggest hot spot of the pathogen, which has rapidly swept the globe.More than 5.49 million people have been infected and 346,232 have died across the world, according to Johns Hopkins Covid-19 tracker. The US has recorded a further 532 deaths from Covid-19, bringing the toll to 98218, with 16,62,375 cases of the virus, far more than any other nation.The rise in numbers come on the ninth day of the fourth phase of the lockdown, which is scheduled to end on May 31, as India has eased restrictions considerably including allowing domestic air travel.The Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) said it has collected around 24,000 blood samples from 60 districts in 21 states over the past two weeks for a sero-survey or a test of blood serum to check for exposure to the Sars-Cov-2 virus in the general population.The states from where samples were taken are Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, UP, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, West Bengal, and Jammu & Kashmir.Additionally, about 5,000 samples have been picked from 10 hotspot cities with maximum caseload: Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Thane, Pune, Indore, Kolkata, Hyderabad, and Aurangabad.The first batch of about 70% samples was dispatched to a central lab in Tamil Nadu for analysis on Sunday, and the results are expected in about three weeks.This community-based survey will hold the key for getting several vital clues on the disease trend, testing and so on, experts said.Apart from the sero-survey, the Union health ministry has a hospital-based active surveillance plan using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests among healthcare workers, outpatient department patients, and pregnant women in all districts.At least 10 hospitals—six public and four private—will be selected from each district for the sampling, with an overall target of lifting 800 samples a month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-over-1-45-lakh-death-toll-at-4-167/story-unQSC4EEiDo871pSKswJeM.html
26-05-2020||India||Houses damaged, animals killed after Pakistan violates ceasefire in J-K’s Poonch||Several houses were damaged and many cattle were killed after Pakistan violated the ceasefire in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir early on Tuesday, officials said.“Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and intense shelling with mortars along LoC (Line of Control) in Balakote sector,” defence spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Devender Anand said.The Indian Army retaliated befittingly to the violation, he added.Police said some houses were damaged in Balakot and Sandote area of Mendhar and many animals were killed and injured in the shelling by Pakistan.“Two cattle belonging to Mohammad Zaman Khan of Sawalah Balakote died and four others injured. Similarly, two cattle of Mohammad Azeem Khan of Sandote were injured and his house was partially damaged,” Ramesh Kumar Angral, Poonch’s senior superintendent of police, said.Angral added that cattle belonging to Mohammad Mafooz and Mohammad Kabir of Balakote were also injured.Pakistan has been regularly opening heavy fire on Indian posts and villages along the 744km-long LoC in J-K in the past few months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/houses-damaged-animals-killed-after-pakistan-violates-ceasefire-in-j-k-s-poonch/story-SXhHgwKSqdVE220PAavfjK.html
26-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Bihar inches towards 3,000-mark, officials blame influx of migrants for spike||Bihar is fast approaching the 3,000-mark in the number of coronavirus disease cases. On Monday, the state saw 163 fresh cases, which took the tally to 2,737, the state health officials said. However, the Union health ministry reported 2,730 cases in the state in its update on Tuesday morning.The number of infection has seen a rapid rise in the recent past mainly on the account of the influx of migrant workers, the health department said.The rate of infection in Bihar is 10.67 per cent, the highest in the country, according to data anlysis by Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan.It took 12 days for the infection to double in Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, 14 days in Delhi and just seven in Bihar, Hindustan further reported.The number of migrants testing positive in Bihar since May 3 is 1,754, which is close to 80 per cent of the total number of cases reported during the period. Special trains carrying them from far and wide began reaching the state on May 2.The majority of the infected migrants are those who returned from Delhi (411), Maharashtra (403), Gujarat (276), Haryana (146), Rajasthan (95), Uttar Pradesh (89), Telangana (81) and West Bengal (76), according to a break-up provided by the department.Among the 163 cases reported on Monday, Patna district accounted for 11, which caused its tally to reach 211. Two of these were reported from Lodipur and Samanpura localities of the state capital, while the remaining were from rural areas of the district, the worst-hit in Bihar.Significant numbers of cases were reported from districts like Begusarai, Katihar, Madhubani, Darbhanga, Katihar and Saharsa.Bihar had reported 180 new cases of Covid-19 from 15 districts on Sunday.Cases have been reported from all 38 districts of the state and nine of these - Patna, Rohtas, Begusarai, Munger, Madhubani, Katihar, Khagaria, Buxar and Jehanabad - have tallies in three-digits. Only Sheohar has reported less than 10 cases.Death toll in the state is 13, with Patna, Vaishali and Khagaria accounting for two fatalities each and one death reported from Munger, Rohtas, Begusarai, East Champaran, Sitamarhi, Siwan and Saran districts each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-bihar-inches-towards-3-000-mark-officials-blame-influx-of-migrants-for-spike/story-WLOXXQdl4Je0bGv9YCbtmO.html
26-05-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: Cases spike in Tamil Nadu as India crosses another grim milestone||In another single-day surge in Covid-19 cases, India reported fresh 6,535 coronavirus infections on Tuesday, taking the national tally to 1,45,380. The number of coronavirus fatalities in the country stands 4,167 while over 60,490 people have successfully recovered from the disease. Lakshadweep is the only state/union territory in the country which has not recorded a single Covid-19 case. Nagaland, which was untouched by the disease till now, reported three cases on Monday.Here’s a look at Covid-19 state-wise tallyThe worst-hit statesMaharashtraCovid-19 cases in Maharashtra reached 52,667-mark on Tuesday. The state has recorded 1695 deaths so far, highest in the country, while over 15,000 patients (15,786) have recovered from Covid-19. Tamil Nadu The southern state has the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country with 17,082 coronavirus cases so far. While 8,731 people have recovered from the disease here, 118 patients have died.GujaratPM Narendra Modi’s home state has witnessed 14,460 get infected from Covid-19 till date. Gujarat has seen 6,636 people recover from coronavirus while 888 people have died.DelhiThe Covid-19 tally in the national capital has jumped to 14,053. Two hundred and seventy six people have died from the infection here while 6,771 have made a recovery.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan reached 7,300 on Tuesday. The state has reported 167 fatalities while 3,951 patients have recovered from the infection in the state.Madhya PradeshAs many as 6,859 people have been infected from Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh till date. Three hundred people have died from Covid-19 in the state while 3,571 have recovered.Uttar Pradesh The number of Covid-19 positive cases have jumped to 6,532 in Uttar Pradesh. While 3,581 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 165 have died from the infection here.Situation in other statesIn West Bengal, coronavirus cases have crossed the 3,500-mark and are rapidly rising. The number of infected cases in West Bengal reached 3,816 on Monday. There have been 278 deaths and 1,414 recoveries in the state.States with under 3,000 coronavirus cases include Telangana, Odisha, Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Haryana and Bihar. With 847 Covid-19 cases, Kerala has under 1,000 cases of coronavirus infections. Jharkhand, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Tripura have reported under 500 Covid-19 cases while Goa, Puducherry, Meghalaya and Manipur have less than 100 Covid-19 cases. Union territory of Dadra Nagar Haveli has reported two cases of Covid-19.All coronavirus patients in Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Mizoram have recovered. Arunachal Pradesh has two Covid-19 patients and one of them has recovered.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-cases-spike-in-tamil-nadu-india-crosses-another-grim-milestone/story-Y4cBAlAO0DAHS0QiePjv6K.html
26-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Now, ‘Banana Covid’ hits plantations and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Now, ‘Banana Covid’ hits plantationsAs the coronavirus disease outbreak rages on, “fusarium wilt TR4”, a novel fungus strain that has devastated plantations across the globe this year, is setting up new hotspots and threatening output in India, the world’s largest producer of bananas. Read moreChina may have posted 5,000 soldiers across LAC, officials say as tension grows along borderChina may have marshalled close to 5,000 soldiers on its side of the disputed border in the Ladakh sector where India has also sent military reinforcements to strengthen its defences as tensions grow along the Line of Actual Control. Read more‘I’m exempted’: Union Minister skips quarantine after landing in BengaluruAfter opposition slammed Sadananda Gowda for skipping institutional quarantine after landing in Bengaluru from Delhi, the minister has said that he is exempted. Read moreWith designer outlets and stores reopening, here’s how Covid-19 has changed the retail sceneYour next visit to a designer or a retail store will no longer be the same. While masks and gloves are mandatory, some stores won’t allow you to use the trial room or even touch the clothes with unsanitised hands, and online transfer will be encouraged. Read moreBalbir sir had no airs despite his achievementsIf Dhyan Chand was a pillar of strength for Indian hockey in the pre-Independence era, Balbir Sr. was the face of it in the era after 1947. Read moreHackers update AnarchyGrabber trojan malware to steal Discord tokens, IDs and passwordsAs per reports, one of the popular Trojan malware has been updated by hackers so that it can steal passwords, user Discord tokens and disables two factor authentication besides spreading to victim’s friends. Read moreBihar Board 2020 Result: Bihar 10th result to be declared at 12:30 pm today, everything you need to know The wait of Bihar Board 10th result 2020 will finally be over in just few hours. Around 15 lakh candidates have been anxiously waiting for their BSEB matric results for last one week. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-now-banana-covid-hits-plantations-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Y6bAqUTCubvBQKDL1OHMBJ.html
26-05-2020||India||Top hottest cities in India, respite from heatwave after May 28||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned of heatwave conditions in Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, east Madhya Pradesh and Vidarbha till May 28.The weather bureau has said dust and thunderstorms will bring some to respite to northern India from the blistering heat on May 29 and 30.Dr Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said there will be a respite from May 28 night when the western disturbance will affect northwest India and easterly winds will also prevail in lower levels.“Dust storm and thunderstorm accompanied with strong gusty winds of 50-60kmph likely to occur on May 29 and 30 over Delhi-NCR,” he added.Here are some of the hottest cities in the country on Monday:Churu in Rajasthan 47.5 degrees CelsiusAkola in Maharashtra 47.4 degrees CelsiusPrayagraj in Uttar Pradesh 47.1 degrees CelsiusMaharashtra’s Nagpur 47.0 degrees CelsiusSriganganagar in Rajasthan 46.9 degrees CelsiusBanda in Uttar Pradesh 46.6 degrees CelsiusKhajuraho in Madhya Pradesh 46.6 degrees CelsiusAgra in Uttar Pradesh degrees 46.3 CelsiusDelhi’s Palam area 46.2 degrees CelsiusKhargone in Madhya Pradesh 46 degrees CelsiusJaisalmer in Rajasthan 46 degrees CelsiusHaryana’s Narnaul 45.8 degreesPunjab’s Bathinda 44.9 degrees Celsius||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-hottest-cities-in-india-respite-from-heatwave-after-may-28/story-86Kidmyfq7jQaAmmBzhIHN.html
26-05-2020||India||With 1 more death, Kerala’s Covid-19 toll rises to 7||Kerala’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) death toll went up to seven after a 62-year-old woman died at the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital on Monday night, health officials said. They said the woman, a resident of Kannur, was a paralytic and was suffering from many other ailments. Her husband, who works in a market in Thalassery, has also tested positive. The source of infection is not yet traced.Many such cases have been detected in north Kerala in the last few days.A woman, who was injured after a jackfruit hit her on her head, tested positive in Kannur two days ago. Nobody had tested positive in her neighbourhood or house before her. Similarly, a man with a spinal injury later tested positive. Kerala had a good track record with effective tracking and surveillance measures but after expatriates and people stranded in other states started flocking to the state in large the number of Covid-19 cases shot up.At least one lakh people have returned to the state in the last two weeks. Officials say at least 80% of the recent cases are imported. There are around 1.80 million Kerala residents working in Middle-Eastern countries alone. At least 50 flights are expected from the Gulf this week as part of the Vande Bharat evacuation plan.Kerala was first in the country to report a Covid-19 case in January after a medical student returned from China’s Wuhan. But it managed well in containing the virus in the first two stages with its effective intervention and surveillance. Another worry for the state is that at least nine health workers have been infected in the last three days. Out of the 896 Covid-19 cases reported in the state, 359 are active and around one lakh people are under observation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-1-more-death-kerala-s-covid-19-toll-rises-to-7/story-MYXzB4JdSPv3HJm3sGm6RK.html
26-05-2020||India||70,000 cases in 15 days: Tracking the rapid spread of Covid-19 across India||The rate of infection of the coronavirus disease has been increasing in the country, an analysis of the infection data by Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan shows. Nearly 7,000 cases were reported on Monday, taking the overall tally to 1,38,845.The infection has been steadily rising in Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi due to which there has been an 11 per cent increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in the last two days, according to Hindustan. More than 70,000 cases have been reported in the last 15 days. Before this, it took 100 days for the infection to increase by 68,000.It took 12 days for the infection to double in Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, 14 days in Delhi and just seven in Bihar. The rate of infection in Bihar is 10.67 per cent, the highest in the country. The rate has gone down in Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat. It now takes 18 days for the infection to double in these states.India on Sunday overtook Iran to become the 10th biggest hotspot of the pathogen. If the cases keep increasing at this rate, the tally will cross 1.5 lakh in two days.New Covid-19 cases dropped to zero for the first time on Saturday in China, the country where the pandemic originated, but surged in India and ravaged South America. Experts say that in countries with weak health care systems and impoverished populations, fighting the virus has proven to be difficult.The death toll has nearly doubled in India in the last 15 days. It has gone up by eight per cent in the last two days.Nearly 41 fatalities have been reported in Maharashtra, the state worst affected by the coronavirus disease. If data from Gujarat, Madhya Pradeshm West Bengal and Delhi is included, it accounts for 82 per cent of the total fatalities in the country.India’s trajectory of Covid-19 cases appears to be tracking that of Brazil, according to analysis of latest data. India’s case count on Sunday was where Brazil’s infections stood about 15 days ago.The disease’s doubling rate, which is defined as the average period it takes for a two-fold rise, decreased from 13.9days on May 18 - the day the cases hit 100,000 - to 13.1on Sunday. The doubling rate - which is calculated over a period of last seven days - was four days at the beginning of April. Several experts say the peak of the outbreak in India is yet to come.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/70-000-cases-in-15-days-tracking-the-rapid-spread-of-covid-19-across-india/story-osiFSn4uMyPhe7ycGwmAaJ.html
26-05-2020||India||In lockdown 4.0 in Rajasthan, taxis, auto rickshaws allowed in red zones||The Rajasthan government on Monday decided to allow taxis and auto rickshaws to operate in the red zones of the state. The state government has also lifted the ban on the sale of paan, gutkha and tobacco products while making it clear that spitting in public is still a punishable offence. Amending the lockdown 4.0 guidelines, the government allowed the use of taxis, including Ola and Uber, and auto rickshaws within the red zones on a condition that social distancing and sanitisation will be ensured. Public parks in red zones will also be open from 7 am to 6.45 pm. These activities are already permitted in orange and green zones of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-lockdown-4-0-in-rajasthan-taxis-auto-rickshaws-allowed-in-red-zones/story-KzlnBrKJX8xt6hDt4Y0CTP.html
26-05-2020||India||Jamaat chief Maulana Saad’s eldest son on Crime Branch radar, documents seized: Report||The Crime Branch of Delhi Police has seized the bank documents and other important papers of the son of Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad, Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan reported. The Crime Branch has been probing the event organised by the Jamaat at its markaz (centre) in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area in March which emerged as the biggest hotspot of coronavirus disease Covid-19.Saeed, eldest of the three sons of Maulana Saad, plays an important role in managing the markaz, Hindustan futher reported quoting officials in the Crime Branch.Also Read: ‘Few tested positive’: Tablighi chief’s comeback on Jamaat spreading Covid-19The Crime Branch had earlier seized passports and other documents of five members of the markaz. According to Hindustan, these five people were key in running the operations of the markaz. Since their passports have been seized, none of the five people can leave the country till investigation is complete.Maulana Saad’s three sons and a nephew are being investigated by the Crime Branch. They form the core team at the markaz.Apart from this, another Crime Branch team is probing Jamaat’s source of funds. The team has found that the Jamaat had been receiving money from various sources. They are trying to find the identities of the individuals and institutions behind these fundings.Also Read: 4,000 Covid-19 cases linked to Jamaat, says govt. But India isn’t the only oneThe Crime Branch officials said that they have given notice to 900 people, who attended the Jamaat’s event, and are beinf questioned, Hindustan reported. It said that a few members of the team probing the case were out of action because they contracted Covid-19, but now that they are back, the investigation will be completed soon, Hindustan further reported.Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had said on Sunday that India felt a “big jolt” with the sudden spike in cases following the Nizamuddin markaz incident. He asserted that the incident was a lesson for all communities that when a collective decision is taken by the country it must be followed with discipline.A large congregation organised in March by the Tablighi Jamaat in the Nizamuddin area of the national capital had emerged as a major hotspot. Some of the participants, who were later tested positive for coronavirus, had travelled to their home states and other areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jamaat-chief-maulana-saad-s-eldest-son-on-crime-branch-radar-documents-seized-report/story-EszTf9F0LdRA9Dxn537OyM.html
26-05-2020||India||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan’s hometown declared Covid-19 hotspot||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s home district Kannur has been declared a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hotspot after a review of data on Monday.The state reported 49 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday, including two prisoners and healthcare workers each, state health minister KK Shailaja said. Of the 49 new cases, 14 and 10 are reported from north Kerala’s Kasaragod and Kannur districts, respectively.The chief minister also declared three other locations as hotspots and currently, there are 59 hotspots in the state. Kerala has 359 active Covid-19 cases of the 896 reported to date. Around one lakh people are under quarantine, including 90% of them at their homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-s-hometown-declared-covid-19-hotspot/story-Ykqzjpq0T8EH7tfqjYRRWI.html
26-05-2020||India||Karnataka exempts ministers travelling across states on duty from quarantine||Ministers of the central government or state governments or officers on their official duty, who are travelling across states, will be exempted from requirements of quarantine, the Karnataka government said on Monday.The state government issued an addendum to Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for inter-state passengers.“Any person who gets a negative COVID test certificate (from ICMR approved lab) which is not more than two days old from the date of journey will be exempted from the requirement of institutional quarantine,” read the addendum.The state government has laid down new norms for those coming from other states (including those coming by domestic air flights).Passengers coming from ‘high prevalence states’ (Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh) would be required to undergo a seven-day “institutional quarantine”, which will be followed by home quarantine.The new norms also said that home quarantine of 14 days would be necessary for the passengers coming from other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-exempts-ministers-travelling-across-states-on-duty-from-quarantine/story-e3GJHOmYtu9WxxhgYZfFwK.html
26-05-2020||India||Skill universities on anvil for migrants in post-pandemic world||Setting up special skill development universities, revamping courses and training at over 2,700 Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) and polytechnics and creating a central board of vocational education -- these are some of the measures the skill development ministry is looking at in an attempt to reorient its own role and create a job-ready workforce for a post-Covid world.The turmoil caused by the pandemic has resulted in not just millions of workers moving back to the hinterland, but also created new demand patterns for jobs, explained officials overseeing the effort. The skill development ministry has created a detailed road map for this. HT has accessed a copy of the plan, a key component of which is to equip the workers with new skills.Rural logistics, sanitation, health-care and home delivery are all sectors where workers will be needed in a more health-conscious world that the pandemic is likely to usher in. The ministry is looking at the possibility of training workers in these areas.A database of migrant workers and their skilling needs could be created by the skill development ministry jointly with the rural development ministry and urban local bodies. The ministry is looking at updating its skill management information system (SMIS) to gauge the emerging trends.According to the plan, a Kaushal (Hindi for skill) app may be developed that individuals can use to locate and enrol themselves for skilling courses. The app may also be used to get in touch with employers.“The government is cognizant of the reverse migration that has happened due to Covid-19 pandemic and is trying its best to re-connect them back to employment opportunities in their respective regions,” skill development and entrepreneurship minister Mahendra Nath Pandey told HT. “It is imperative that their skills be best utilised at this point in time to {enable them to} earn their livelihood while supporting the local economies.”According to one official, who requested anonymity, the ministry is also looking at revamping the training imparted at the 2,700 ITIs and polytechnics.“Such activities shall certainly undergo reverse gravitational pull towards rural areas and smaller towns. This may prove to be a good outcome of Covid curse as it may result in more balanced growth,” said former University Grants Commission member Dr Inder Mohan Kapahy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/skill-universities-on-anvil-for-migrants-in-post-pandemic-world/story-2Uvurr8fZjbk1ucdqUjyCJ.html
26-05-2020||India||‘Buy PPE only from approved producers’: Govt advisory||The Union health ministry on Monday issued an advisory asking people to buy personal protection equipment (PPE) kits approved only by the labs identified by the government to ensure quality of kits as there have been reports of substandard kits being sold in the market. “The products under reference have no relevance to the procurement being made by the Central Government. HLL Lifecare Limited (HLL), the procuring agency of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, is procuring PPE coveralls from manufacturers/suppliers only after getting their coveralls tested and approved by one of the eight labs nominated by the Ministry of Textiles (MoT) for testing the same. It is only after their products qualify in the test prescribed by the ministry’s technical committee, that they are procured,” said health ministry in a statement.“Further, HLL is also undertaking random sampling of the supplies being made, for which a testing protocol has been devised. In case of any failure, the company is being disqualified for any supplies. All the States/UTs have been asked to ensure procurement which is being carried out at their level after following the prescribed testing for PPEs from MoT nominated labs,” it said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe government is also working to ensure all manufacturers, who have got their products qualified from the government approved labs, register with the online market place portal called ‘Government e-Marketplace (GeM)’ so that information on quality manufacturers is easily accessible for people .“The manufacturers who have got PPEs qualified have been advised by the MoT to get on-board the GeM so that the procurement by States can be carried out accordingly. For the private sector also, the dynamic information of manufacturers whose products have qualified the tests is available on MoT website,” said the health ministry statement.Also read: UP prison inmates make masks, listen to ‘jail radios’ amid coronavirus lockdownTo ensure quality of PPE kits, the ministry of textile had last month tightened norms for permits issued to coverall makers, according to which any domestic manufacturer of a coverall applying for approval certifications will have to attach a notarised affidavit declaring that they are not traders but manufacturers, and that they understand that if they do not follow the norms, their certifications could be cancelled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/buy-ppe-only-from-approved-producers-govt-advisory/story-sdQvfI7FRP1YPdQdH1VJgJ.html
26-05-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The past four weeks have not been kind to India.Between April 27 and May 24, India saw 78% of its coronavirus disease cases, and 78% of its deaths. According to the HT dashboard, the number of cases and deaths were 138,474 and 3,949 respectively on Sunday night.In the first of the four weeks, India added 14,540 cases and saw 516 deaths for an average of 2,077 cases a day and 74 deaths. In the second, it added 24,558 cases and saw 747 deaths. The per-day averages were 3,508 and 107.In the third week, the numbers were 28,571 and 812, and the averages 4,082 cases and 116 deaths a day. And in the fourth week, India added 40,480 cases and saw 998 deaths, translating into averages of 5,783 cases and 143 deaths a day. I’ve previously written about the lag in reporting both cases and deaths, but the numbers are indicative of the general trend.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Sure, the ongoing lockdown (which is tapering down) has helped reduce the number of cases; the growth rates of both cases and deaths are nowhere close to what they are in some of the worst-affected countries; and the case fatality rate, at 2.85%, is well below the world’s 6.32% (in India’s case, this number, as well as the recovery rate, have been improving over the weeks, a fact repeatedly pointed out in this column); but India should still be worried about the four-week trend.Experts say (and the data bears out) that India is yet to witness the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic, but that’s merely restating a fact that has been clear for a long time. What’s important now is that the country not fritter away the gains of the lockdown. The fact that fatality rates are decreasing and recovery rates increasing is an indicator that we aren’t – at least, not for now — but the challenge is to stay on the trajectory. India’s containment strategy seems to have ensured that the number of cases didn’t show the kind of sharp increase it did in countries such as Italy, Spain, and the US, overwhelming the health systems. It flattened the curve in that it reduced what in geometry is referred to as its slope, but didn’t flatten it to the extent that the curve started to dip.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Now, the country’s mitigation strategy needs to kick in. There are worrying signs there, as I wrote in the column yesterday. Hospitals in Mumbai (a total of 31,972 cases as of Sunday night, about 22% of India’s total), are struggling to cope with the high volume of cases. Delhi would appear to have learnt from Mumbai’s troubles; on Sunday, it earmarked more beds for Covid-19 patients in public as well as private hospitals in the city. It may not need them — while the number of daily cases in the Capital continues to rise (635 on Monday), most of the cases are mild, and do not require hospitalisation — but it needs to be prepared.Also read: Mixing patients may worsen Covid-19 spread, warn private hospitalsPart of the mitigation will also require state and district administrations to follow the Indian Council of Medical Research’s guideline on weekly random testing to be carried out in every district in the country. As India opens up, this system, if followed, can serve as an early warning system, red-flagging potential hotspots.And part of the mitigation will require the central governments and state governments to protect the most vulnerable population — people over the age of 65. It is surprising that travel advisories — air and rail services have both resumed — are silent on senior citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-mgVAv0kBJHD5e7hqx7zB4J.html
26-05-2020||India||Killing insects before monsoon crucial to halting second wave of locust swarms||Officials in three states are racing to control the desert locust swarms that have now spread to three states, adding to the logistical challenges of district officials at a time when containing the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has been the top-most priority.State and federal agencies need to eliminate as much of these locusts as possible prior to the arrival of monsoon, the point when the swarms could go through another round of breeding and turn into a bigger threat, said the Locust Warning Organisation under the Union agriculture ministry. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“If we are not able to control the sub-adults (the swarms that are already in MP and Rajasthan) they will grow into adults come back to the summer breeding sites along the Indo-Pak border in the desert. If there is good rainfall, moisture will make it conducive for egg laying in sandy soil. We may have to face a second generation of desert locusts then. If they are not controlled in hopper stage, then they turn into swarms that will again pose a challenge for us,” said KL Gurjar, deputy director, directorate of Plant Protection Quarantine and Storage, LWO.Also read: Locusts- The invasion of the food snatchersThe Food and Agriculture Organisation’s (FAO) situation update dated May 21 said spring breeding continues in southern Iran and southwest Pakistan where control operations are in progress against hopper groups and bands. As vegetation dries out, more groups and swarms will form and move from these areas to the summer breeding areas along both sides of the Indo-Pakistan border as several waves from now until at least early July. Good rains are predicted during the first half of June along the Indo-Pakistan border that would allow egg-laying to occur.FAO’s forecast maps also show summer breeding in India and Pakistan in June. “There is also a possibility that they enter India directly from the Horn of Africa in July by crossing the sea with the help of winds. The situation is being continuously monitored,” added Gurjar.According to FAO, favourable conditions for their breeding are moist sandy or sand/clay soil to depths of 10-15 cm below the surface, some bare areas for egg-laying, and green vegetation for hopper development.The LWO has a ground team of 50 people mainly to monitor and track the swarms. Drones are being used for aerial spraying of Malathion 96, an organophosphate insecticide and a potentially toxic chemical for non-cropped areas. For areas with agriculture, chlorpyrifos is sprayed by drones, fire brigades and tractor mounted sprays. Farmers are trying to disperse them by making noise which is not very effective but can help. Spraying takes place very early in the morning before they start moving again. .According to some assessments, the locust outbreak this time is linked to climate change. The World Meteorological Organisation earlier this year said unusually heavy rain in late 2019 was a factor in the severe desert locust outbreak in the Horn of Africa region. The outbreak was the worst in over 25 years, and the most serious in 70 years for Kenya. This is expected to spread further by June 2020 in a severe threat to food security.Originally, the locusts began migrating from the Horn of Africa last year. They migrated from the Middle East to Iran, Pakistan and then into India.“The outbreak started after warm waters in the western Indian Ocean in late 2019 fuelled heavy amounts of rains over east Africa and the Arabian Peninsula. These warm waters were caused by the phenomenon called the Indian Ocean Dipole—with warmer than usual waters to its west, and cooler waters to its east. Rising temperatures due to global warming amplified the dipole and made the western Indian Ocean particularly warm. Heavy rain triggers the growth of vegetation in arid areas where desert locusts can then grow and breed. “These locusts which migrated to India early this year might have found greener pastures as the pre-monsoon rains during March–May were in excess over north India this year,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, climate scientist at Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/killing-insects-before-monsoon-crucial-to-halting-second-wave/story-tNOfgjVLw3XnTPc6GHPhEO.html
26-05-2020||India||Locusts: The invasion of the food snatchers||Swarms of crop-munching desert locusts entered deeper into Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh over the weekend and are now close to the national capital, according to officials who said on Monday that they have put farmers on high alert and deployed insecticide spraying devices through drones, SUVs and tractors.Locust invasions are common in parts of Rajasthan abutting Pakistan, but this is the first time they have reached Jaipur, a city 700km from the border, after charting a journey that experts believe began in their natural breeding ground in East Africa. “There is a possibility that the locusts will move towards Delhi in the next few days if wind speeds and directions are favourable. As of today the wind speed moved them towards north,” said the Union agriculture ministry’s Locust Warning Organization (LWO) deputy director KL Gurjar.Gurjar said the agency was coordinating with the India Meteorological Department to determine the trajectory the insects might take. On Monday, the swarm reached Jaipur in what was described by officials as unprecedented. An agriculture department official in Uttar Pradesh said that the Jaipur swarm was one of three that was spreading. “Presently three groups are in action in this area and first one among them was moving towards Jhansi (Uttar Pradesh) based on wind direction. The second lot seems to be heading for Morena in Madhya Pradesh. The third in Jaipur region seem to be heading towards Gangapur city in Rajasthan,” said Ram Pravesh, the district plant protection officer in Agra. Locusts can fly up to 150km in a day and a one-square-kilometre swarm can eat as much food as 35,000 people, in terms of weight, in a single day, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO)’s Desert Locust Information Service bulletin.Locust invasions are known to cause a considerable drop in agricultural output. A moderate infestation chewed through winter crops in an estimated 300,000 hectares in Rajasthan and Gujarat in January. According to some assessments, the locust outbreak this time is linked to climate change and unusual rain. While there are no crops in Rajasthan at present, the summer-sown season begins next month. Most of the swarm seen at present consists of pink-hued sub-adult locusts. Officials fear these may arc back to their summer breeding area in the desert between India and Pakistan, where monsoon rains can help trigger a new round of breeding. “If we are not able to control the sub-adults, they will grow into adults and return to summer breeding sites along the Indo-Pak border in the desert. If there is good rainfall, moisture will make it conducive for egg-laying in sandy soil. We may have to face a second generation of desert locusts then. If they are not controlled in hopper stage then they turn into swarms which will again pose a challenge for us,” said KL Gurjar, deputy director, Directorate of Plant Protection Quarantine and Storage.The life of a locust varies between three and five months. These insects do not pose a direct risk to animals or humans.The LWO official said containment strategy depends upon the size of the swarm. “When it enters from Pakistan, a swarm of one square km can have 80 million locusts. As it moves ahead, we keep killing many of them and the swarm becomes less dense but it will still have 40 million locusts,” the joint director said.“This year, the locust attack is about eight times more aggressive than last year. Last year the locust swarm was first seen in Jaisalmer district on May 21, but this time its swarms started coming in from early May,” he added.According to officials in Jaipur, the swarm that arrived on Monday was spread 6km wide and stretched on for 2.5km. Locusts generally settle on vegetation around 8pm and fly off again around 9-10 am the next day, so insecticides are sprayed at them at night to kill them, he added. The LWO has a ground team of 50 persons mainly to monitor and track the swarms; drones are being used for aerial spraying of Malathion 96, an organophosphate insecticide and a potentially toxic chemical for non-cropped areas. For areas with agriculture, chlorpyrifos is sprayed by drones, fire brigades and tractor mounted sprays.“This year, we are able to launch control efforts only around midnight because they are settling late. The current breed of locusts unsettles on hearing sound of tractors, making our job more difficult. An unsettled swarm is highly mobile and can travel as much as 150 km a day if winds are favourable,” said Rajasthan’s agriculture commissioner Om Prakash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/locusts-the-invasion-of-the-food-snatchers/story-R78BBHUBb2TvLSrGm8ZYuI.html
26-05-2020||India||Ministers exempt from quarantine: Karnataka on Sadananda Gowda row||Bengaluru: The Karnataka government stepped in on Monday afternoon to extricate Union minister DV Sadananda Gowda who found himself mired in a quarantine controversy after flying to Bengaluru from Delhi and skipping the mandatory one-week quarantine specified by the state government. After both he and his aides tied themselves up in knots explaining why the quarantine did not apply to him, the state government issued an addendum to its guidelines issued on May 22 that said Union and state ministers and officers were exempt from the “requirements”. Interestingly, the addendum was dated May 23,although it was shared by the state at around 7.40pm on Monday.  Gowda , the Union minister for chemicals and fertilisers flew from Delhi to Bengaluru, but skipped the mandatory one week of institutional quarantine, followed by another week of home isolation, mandated by the Karnataka government for air passengers from high-rsk states amid the Covid-19 pandemic.After landing at the airport on a commercial flight, Gowda left by a private car even as other passengers were sent to a week of institutional quarantine the Karnataka government has mandated for passengers from states such as Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Delhi.Anyone tested within the previous 48 hours and found negative for Covid-19 is exempted from institutional quarantine, but is required to stay in home quarantine.An aide to the minister claimed that Gowda had come with a negative Covid-19 test report provided by an Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-approved lab. The minister himself did not refer to either the test or the state government guideline (issued later, but dated Saturday) and simply told reporters that being a minister, he was exempt from the quarantine rules and accused a section of the media of unnecessarily blowing up the issue.“I am also looking after pharma. It is my duty to ensure that there is no shortage of medicine supply in the country. If I don’t do that, then the number of cases will double,” he said. “If doctors are quarantined, if people who supply medicines are quarantined, how will we beat the virus.”The Karnataka Congress hit out at the Union minister for skipping the quarantine “…(Sadananda Gowda) flouts all Covid norms, lands from Delhi and walks (out) without quarantine, Karnataka government rules have no exemption for anyone! How come he comes up with how own rules? Is he not putting all his primary contacts under health risk? Why no action?” it said in a statement.Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson S Prakash said the minister had already clarified his stand on the issue.The addendum to the guidelines issued by the state said: “The ministers of union government or state governments or officers on their official duty who are travelling across states will be exempted from the requirements of quarantine as has been done for health professionals and others...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministers-exempt-from-quarantine-k-taka-on-sadananda-gowda-row/story-IB7T9yM6rhDPEOo9oBZkYO.html
26-05-2020||India||Snow leopard conflict cases rise in Ladakh||There have been around nine snow leopard conflict cases reported in Ladakh during the past two months of national lockdown where the elusive carnivores have killed or attacked livestock in village corrals, according to the wildlife protection department of Jammu and Kashmir.Out of the nine snow leopards found in conflict with habitation, six had to be caught and moved to the department’s rescue centre in Leh for a period of 15 days to a month. One of them continues to be at the rescue centre and will be released in the wild in a fortnight or so, according to Md Sajid Sultan, regional wildlife warden, Ladakh.“Snow leopards and Himalayan brown bears have been seen to be moving about more freely closer to habitation compared to the past two years. There have been around nine conflict cases involving snow leopards in less than two months which may be linked to less movement of humans during lockdown. There were two conflict cases last year,” he said, adding that the Himalayan brown bears have been spotted on highways and villages where they haven’t been seen in decades.The six snow leopards that were involved in conflicts and killing of livestock, including sheep and Pashmina goats, from villages at lower altitudes had to be confined to a rescue centre either because they had injuries, issues with their teeth, a weak pelvic girdle or worms.“This is also a lean season for them. They do not find enough prey in high altitudes and so tend to come down. February to March is the mating season and then they have the birthing season in May to July. They are tired and look for food during this time. Higher cases of conflict are also related to that,” added Sultan who has three snow leopards at the rescue centre presently, two caught before lockdown who may not be released in their lifetimes as they have serious injuries.Those released back to the wild are either radio collared or GPS tagged with a microchip to track their behaviour or movement.But those studying snow leopards say it’s not a good idea to capture them and confine them even for a few weeks following a livestock raid.“Livestock killing by snow leopards is not just common in India but in all range countries. I am not sure it’s the wisest thing to capture them. Communities should be helped to find better ways to protect livestock. But those on the frontline are dealing with a tough situation because herders are badly impacted if a large share of their livestock is raided,” said Ajay Bijoor, assistant director, conservation, high altitudes at Nature Conservation Foundation.“Lockdown may not have an impact on the livestock raiding behaviour of snow leopards. Lockdown and these raids could be coincidental. Snow leopards do periodically kill free grazing livestock. So, if herders haven’t been taking livestock out for grazing post lockdown, a particular snow leopard who is partially dependent on livestock, can get into a village in search of food, enter a corral and attack livestock,” said Anish Andheria, president - Wildlife Conservation Trust. “Two factors, hunger and familiarity can encourage a snow leopard to raid corrals. Once inside a corral, the snow leopard, in excitement, usually attacks and/or kill multiple animals. If the rescued snow leopard is not injured then it is best to release it immediately or in a day, after monitoring its conditions. If found with injuries, it can be treated at a rehabilitation centre, until it is fit for release, and then released in its territory, that is a kilometer or two from the village where it was found,” he added.Experts cautioned against capturing and confining snow leopards becoming the norm for conflict cases, giving them space to leave is more advisable as tranquilising them could pose a risk to their lives.A study led by Grimsö Wildlife Research Station; Snow Leopard Trust; Panthera in 2016 had found that 40% of the protected areas that included snow leopard habitat were too small to host even one breeding pair of cats. This is because the cats moved around quite a bit and their ranges varied in size. According to the Snow Leopard Trust, if snow leopards are captured and sent into captivity each time livestock is attacked, there may be a gradual reduction in snow leopard numbers in the wild in a short period of time. Capturing snow leopards that have killed livestock can also lead to local communities themselves starting to routinely capture them. Instead, the community can be engaged to both conserve the snow leopards and protect livestock.In India, snow leopards inhabit the higher Himalayan and Trans Himalayan landscape in an altitudinal range between approximately 3,000 m to 5,400 m above mean sea level in five states--Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh. This area contributes to only 5% of the global snow leopard range. There are around 500 snow leopards in India according to Wildlife Fund for Nature but no census has been conducted yet.The environment ministry has asked Wildlife Institute of India to study the impact of lockdown on wildlife in different parts of the country. “The wildlife department is supposed to minimise conflict as much as possible. If that is not possible the protocol is to capture them, treat them, keep them in rescue centres for a brief period and then release them. Snow Leopard conflicts are more common in Himachal Pradesh and Ladakh compared to Sikkim and Uttarakhand. Lots of animal sighting are happening now. Its natural because of less human movement and vehicular traffic. We have asked Wildlife Institute of India to study these findings,” said Soumitra Dasgupta, additional director general wildlife at environment ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/snow-leopard-conflict-cases-rise-in-ladakh/story-VFq4AG6y0t9zyQGDHxPGbL.html
26-05-2020||India||Now, ‘Banana Covid’ hits plantations||Scientists are describing it as the equivalent of Covid-19 in bananas. As the coronavirus disease outbreak rages on, “fusarium wilt TR4”, a novel fungus strain that has devastated plantations across the globe this year, is setting up new hotspots and threatening output in India, the world’s largest producer of bananas. The strain, Tropical Race 4 (TR4), was first identified in Taiwan, and has jumped from Asia to the Middle East and Africa, reaching as far as Latin America. It cripples plantations by first attacking the leaves, which turn yellow from their trailing edges before wilting away. There is no effective remedy yet. “One could say it is the Covid-19 of the plant world. Hotspots have been found in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, which we are trying to contain,” said S. Uma, the director of National Research Centre for Bananas (NRCB), Trichy. According to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, TR4 is one of the “the most destructive of all plant diseases”. As with Covid-19, there is no treatment yet. So, scientists recommend biosecurity measures including “plant quarantine” to slow its spread. The spreading disease has jeopardised the $26 billion global banana trade.A healthy snack, banana is the world’s most globally exported fruit, according to the FAO. That’s a reason for worry as the disease is breaching borders through imports. India produces 27 million tonnes of bananas annually and grows about 100 named cultivars (varieties). TR4 has infected the most commonly sold variety, the one you mostly likely have for breakfast: Grand Nain (musa acuminata), a curvy yellow fruit. Inability to contain TR4 could jolt farm incomes and push up banana prices. One medium banana (126 gms) provides about 110 calories, 0 gram fat, 1 gram protein, 28 grams carbohydrate, 15 grams sugar (naturally occurring), 3 grams fiber and 450 mg potassium and trace quantities of vitamin C and B6, according to the Hyderabad-based National Institute of Nutrition. Most of India’s bananas are consumed domestically. Equador, the largest exporter, is currently the epicentre and scientists haven’t been able to ascertain how TR4 entered India.Fusarium wilt is not new. It entirely wiped out Gros Michel, the dominant export variety of bananas in 1950s. It was in response to this that a new resistant variety, Grand Nain, came up. That has now fallen to TR4. The challenge is to now identify or develop new resistant varieties. That’s the only way to manage it, according to Uma, until an effective agent is found, just as the world is struggling to find a Covid-19 vaccine. “This strain entered India may be eight-nine months ago,” said KL Chaddha, known as the Father of Indian Horticulture and currently, the president of Indian Academy of Horticulture Sciences.The infestation of Grain Nain is bad news. “Grain Nain accounts for 55% of the banana area in the country and accounts for 62% of commerce, including exports,” Uma said.Katihar and Purnea in Bihar and Maharajganj in Uttar Pradesh are the hotspots in India. In UP, several districts are thought to be affected, according to the NRCB.In hotpsot Katihar, scientists have set up an experimental farm. In it, they are growing several cultivars and “32 have shown potential resistance to TR4”, Uma said. Trials are on. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research is advocating a set of measures, known as “biopriming”. It has asked farmers whose plantations have been affected to abandon them. They must grow rice for a year or two before returning to banana. “That way the chain is broken,” said R Selvarajan, a scientist with the NRCB. In a briefing document, the FAO states: “In view of the challenges associated with control of the disease and the risk posed to the global banana supply, it is evident that a concerted effort is required from industry, research institutions, government and international organisations to prevent spread of the disease.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-banana-covid-hits-plantations/story-2ZViGgde0fer1eGi6BnF1N.html
26-05-2020||India||SC for status quo on middle seats of aircraft till June 6||New Delhi: Air India may operate non-scheduled relief and rescue flights on international routes with middle seats occupied until June 6, the Supreme Court ordered on Monday, partly modifying a May 22 Bombay high court order that ordered the national airline to keep middle seats vacant while flying in passengers stranded abroad by the coronavirus crisis and the suspension of most international flights. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde allowed Air India to fill up middle seats of the rescue flights for 10 more days, after taking into account difficulties that passengers, including families, could face in the event middle-seat passengers are offloaded in foreign airports on grounds of social distancing.The top court remanded the matter back to the Bombay high court to pass an appropriate interim order on June 2, the next date of hearing of the case in the high court. Air India will have to comply with the interim order of the Bombay high court while operating non-scheduled flights after June 6.“You should be worried about the health of citizens and not about health of commercial airlines,” CJI Bobde told solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who was appearing for Air India and the central government.During the hearing on Monday, the Supreme Court bench, which also comprised justices AS Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy, remarked that there should be no distinction between international and domestic flights when it comes to adherence to social distancing norms. “There shouldn’t be a difference (between international and domestic flights). It is common sense that maintaining social distancing is important”, the court remarked.However, the Bombay high court specifically said that its order was applicable only to non-scheduled international flights, in light of the fact (as pointed out by the petitioner in that case) that some of the evacuees were coming from countries ravaged by Covid-19 and could be infected. This means that the Supreme Court’s decision today may not have any bearing on scheduled domestic flights, which began on Monday. “We are of the considered view that the petitioner, Air India, should be allowed to operate the non-scheduled flights with the middle seats booking up to 6th June, 2020,” the Supreme Court said on Monday. “However, after that (June 6) Air India will operate non-scheduled flights in accordance with the interim order to be passed by the Bombay high court”, the top court said. The apex court was critical of Air India’s logic in seeking to operate international flights without keeping the middle seats vacant. It also said that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) is free to alter any norms during the pendency of the matter in the interest of public health and safety of the passengers rather than commercial considerations.The petitioner before the high court, Deven Yogesh Kanani, who is an Air India pilot, pointed out that operating flights without keeping middle seats vacant was in violation of the circular issued by the DGCA on March 23. Air India took a stance that the circular of March 23 applied only to scheduled domestic flights and not non-scheduled international flights. Further,the airline argued that the March 23 circular was superseded by a circular issued on May 22 as per which there is no express mandate to keep centre seats vacant. In its order, the Bombay high court said that it cannot accept the submission of the Air India that social distancing measures provided by the March 23 circular so as to prevent spread of Covid-19 would apply only to scheduled domestic flights and not to non-scheduled international flights. Air India and the Union government approached the Supreme Court on Sunday, seeking a stay on the order.Solicitor general Mehta emphasised the difficulties that passengers may face if the middle seat bookings are cancelled. He told the court that one-third of the passengers who are expected to be brought in by the non-scheduled flights would be left stranded in foreign airports if the high court order was not stayed. “According to Mr. Mehta, this [Bombay high court order] has resulted in a lot of anxiety and difficulties arising from want of proper shelter, money, etc., at the foreign airports. Moreover, in some cases, the travel plan of families who were travelling together has been disrupted because those in the families who had middle seats have to be offloaded and remain behind”, the Supreme Court noted in its order. On May 7, India launched the Vande Bharat mission to bring back Indians stranded overseas since the last week of March, when scheduled flights to and from India were cancelled. Since then, over 400 flights have been organised from 98 countries, to rescue 259,000 Indians. On May 22, the Indian government extended the mission to include some categories of Overseas Citizens of India or OCIs. The central government also pointed out the difficulties in convincing airport authorities of foreign nations to offload passengers based on an order passed by a court in India. Besides, it was also submitted that keeping the middle seat unoccupied will not help much in preventing the transmission of the coronavirus.“How can you say it will not affect anyone? Outside [the aircraft], there should be a social distancing of at least 6 feet. Will the Virus know it is in the aircraft and is not supposed to infect ?” the court asked. Senior advocate Sanjay Hegde said: “The order would not possibly have been passed but for the tickets already having been sold. The court’s inclination appeared to be to insist on distancing within the aircraft which it has now mandated from June. Accepting a fait accompli from the government for tickets sold for one or two days is understandable. Once a concession is permitted by the court for over ten days, it appears quite likely that the government will give itself a fresh extension, by new administrative orders. In the meanwhile, those who will have flown in the interim period, may be exposed to unacceptable levels of risk.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-for-status-quo-on-middle-seats-till-june-6/story-sPjof7w9z8cIA1Dp4ALtxM.html
26-05-2020||India||Relief for homecoming passengers||It was a special journey for five-year-old Vihaan Sharma, who returned to Bengaluru on Monday with the resumption of domestic flight services. Not only because he met his mother after three months but also because he made the journey alone.The boy, who stayed with his grandparents in Delhi, was wearing a yellow jacket, blue gloves and a yellow mask. In one hand, he held a mobile phone. In the other, he clenched a placard saying “special category” passenger.“He has come back alone to Bengaluru after three months,” said the boy’s mother, Manjeesh Sharma, who received him at the airport.For thousands of passengers who boarded planes on the day India resumed air services after over 60 days, it was a journey to remember.At airports across India, people rejoiced their homecoming, after being stuck in different parts of the country for months with the government announcing unprecedented travel curbs across the country in March-end. That they have to undergo strict state-specific security protocols did not appear to be a dampener. Others were relieved that they could travel to attend to friends and relatives facing medical emergencies in other states. VK Tewari, a 44-year-old employee of a private company in New Delhi, was elated that he could finally visit his family in Lucknow. He has a rented accommodation in Ghaziabad and used to visit his wife, mother and father in the Uttar Pradesh capital on weekends. “On the first practical opportunity to meet the family, I booked myself on a plane and reached here...For two months, we connected over phone and video calls. It’s nice to come here again. I never lived away from my family for so long,” Tewari said.“I have been working from home (during and these few months have been emotionally challenging. Now, I will spend some time here,” he said.RK Singh, 55, too, arrived in Lucknow airport on Monday, but he was travelling to the national capital. “I am going to Delhi to see my brother who is not keeping well. It’s an emotional journey for me as I met him before three months. I was trying to go to Delhi for the last few days but was not able to do so,” he said.Amitesh Kumar Nag, a 40-year-old marketing executive with a multinational firm, returned to Patna with his wife and 10-year-old son over four months after undergoing a surgery in Navi Mumbai.“I underwent an operation at the Kokilaben Reliance Hospital at Navi Mumbai on February 27, and was discharged from the hospital on March 18. Doctors advised me to come for a review after a week, and then the lockdown was announced and I was stranded in Mumbai,” said the cancer patient.“Though I was staying with my aunt in Mumbai, I was desperate to return home and even arranged for movement pass by road when the government announced lifting of the embargo on domestic flights,” said Nag.Joymati Das, a 68-year retired government employee and a resident for Assam can’t wait for her flight back home. “I came to Anand in Gujarat in November to spend some time with my daughter who works in a school. The plan was to return towards the end of March, but the lockdown happened and I got stuck,” said Das, whose flight is scheduled to leave on Wednesday. Mohammad Ansari was happy that he could reach Allahabad from Mumbai to celebrate Eid. “I had enquired about my flight status a day before departure...I reached the airport and took off on time,” he said.But then there were others who did not have a pleasant experience. Rishi Goel, for example. The Shimla resident could board his Chandigarh-bound flight, but not before hiccups. “My airline first messaged me that my flight was cancelled and then sent an updated message that my flight was on time,” said Goel, who works in Mumbai. His wife delivered a baby in the lockdown period. Ashwini Pandey, a banker and a resident of Chennai, purchased tickets with four airlines to reach Mumbai, but all his flights were cancelled. “I have to join my work urgently on June 10. Only if I reach Mumbai now, I can join my new office after finishing my quarantine period. Two flights got cancelled today and two flights that were scheduled on Tuesday too have been cancelled,” Pandey said.Sudhanshu Pandey, who was on an official trip to Mumbai, has been stranded in the city for two months. “I had no idea that my flight was cancelled, and it was only at 6.30 am that I learnt about my flight status while I was entering the check-in area.”(With inputs from HTC in states)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/relief-for-homecoming-passengers/story-rStXjy4TGjXT9JLSMvGWAP.html
26-05-2020||India||Local explosives used to trigger Pulwama attack||Terrorists who planned and executed the February 14, 2019 Pulwama attack on a Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) convoy took advantage of pilferage in mineral blocks and stone quarries to procure about 500 gelatin sticks, purchased ammonium nitrate and ammonium powder locally in small tranches, and managed to smuggle in military grade RDX from across the border, according to people familiar with the investigation who gave granular details of the explosives used in the attack that took India and Pakistan to the brink of war last year.The Pulwama attack -- in which an explosive-laden Maruti Eeco was smashed into the CRPF convoy by suicide bomber Adil Ahmed Dar, killing 40 troopers -- led to India retaliating with an aerial attack on a terror camp in Balakot and a subsequent dogfight between the air forces of the two countries.A counter-insurgency official, sharing details of how explosive material was collected for the Pulwama bombing, said Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) commander Mudassir Ahmed Khan (killed in an encounter in Pinglish on March 11, 2019), Ismail Bhai alias Lambu (currently the main JeM commander in Kashmir), Sameer Ahmed Dar (Jaish’s second-in-command in the Valley) and Shakir Bashir Magrey (arrested by the National Investigation Agency on February 28, 2020) collected the gelatin sticks from the mining blocks and locations used by factories for blasting rocks in the Khrew (Pulwama), Khunmoh (Srinagar), Tral, Awantipora and Lethpora areas over a period of time.“These gelatin sticks, which have nitroglycerin, were collected in tranches of 5kg to 10kg to avoid raising red flags among the intelligence agencies,” said the official, who asked not to be named.The ammonium nitrate (around 70 kg) and the ammonium powder were also procured locally in tranches, while around 35kg military grade RDX was brought in from Pakistan, the official added. Some of the ammonium powder was ordered by another Jaish operative, Waiz-ul-Islam (arrested in March 2020 first week), he said.Forensic experts probing the case have already confirmed that ammonium nitrate, nitroglycerin and RDX were used in the suicide attack.A senior ministry of home affairs (MHA) official confirmed that NIA had gathered all the evidence on how the explosive material was collected, and who the people behind the delivery were. The RDX, the official said, was brought to India in tranches by JeM terrorists who sneaked into India from Pakistan.“Gelatin sticks are prohibited for sale in the open market, and only authorised companies or government departments {that} have permission from geology department can use it. However, it has often been seen that there aren’t proper checks at these sites, and explosives used at quarries for blasting mountains/rocks etc. reach the hands of criminals and terrorists. Several advisories have been issued in the past in this regard,” said the MHA official who spoke on condition of anonymity.The NIA has so far arrested key players in Pulwama attack – including Magrey, Mohammad Abbas Rather, Waiz-ul-Islam, Insha Jan, and her father Tariq Ahmad Shah. They were picked up in the last week of February and first week of March this year.The agency has also found “definite technical evidence” against the JeM leadership including Maulana Masood Azhar’s brother Abdul Rauf Asghar’s communications with outfit’s commanders in the Valley through which it was established that he was giving directions for the Pulwama conspiracy, a third person familiar with the matter said.The first charge sheet in the case is expected to be filed in August.HT reported on March 4, 2020 that the Pulwama attack was originally set to be carried out in the first week of February last year. However, when bad weather in the Valley forced a suspension of the convoy movements , the JeM terrorists waited for the next CRPF convoy to use the Jammu-Srinagar highway on February 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/local-explosives-used-to-trigger-pulwama-attack/story-h5F8JWsy2ivn8fH7VbYgjP.html
26-05-2020||India||Delhiwale: A sadhu in isolation||Who among us isn’t affected by the coronavirus pandemic? Aren’t we all fearing for our salary cuts, our jobs, our health, and especially for the life of our elderly friends and relatives?But there’s a group of men who are beyond these worries—theoretically speaking.“I have no family, I have no friend and I’m not even alive,” says Baba Julmi Nath, clad in a black turban and kurta. He’s an aghori sadhu, belonging to a sect of Shiva worshipping ascetics, famous for performing night-long sadhna (meditations) in the haunting grounds of Hindu shamshan (cremation) ghats.Currently in Gurugram, Mr Nath talks of “being stranded in the city”—he is talking this evening on WhatsApp video.But where is the human skull he is seen holding in his WhatsApp profile pic?Mr Nath smiles, seemingly amused by this abrupt query. “It’s called kapaal.” He informs all aghoris are required to keep it with them. “It’s inside my bag.... I take it out for chai or meals.” That skull is his cup as well as plate, he explains in layman’s lingo, while simultaneously Whatsapping a photo of himself holding the “kapaal.”In his mid-30s, Mr Nath spends his year visiting the various Shiva shrines spread across the subcontinent, though he often stops by in Gurugram for long durations. “We have an ashram here, near the shamshan ghat.” A pause, and then he asserts, “We aghoris always try to live on or near a shamshan.”Mr Nath is sitting in the hall of an ashram in Surat Nagar near the town’s railway station—this is the place he is staying in for the time. He says he hasn’t caught the “infection” and “while I’m responsible towards other people’s health, I’m not concerned for mine.” He declares he is beyond “sukh dukh (happiness and grief)” and that, in fact, he performed his own “pind daan” ceremony when he was 12. “I’m now dead, corona cannot do anything to my aatma (spirit).”Even so, he concedes he is “technically alive”—his “ID name” is Arvind Kumar. And he also graciously confesses that all said and done, somewhere within his heart “I too am worried for myself.” In fact, he and many of the aghoris he knows have been instructed by the elders of this secretive community to cease all travels for now, “especially after two sadhus were killed by a mob while on the road in Palghar (Maharashtra) some weeks ago.”Discussing the kind of fear that seizes everyone, especially during a time like this, Mr Nath feels that it is the attachment to people that keeps us nervous. “We’re constantly scared of the possibility of death of those we love.” Indeed, he says, aghoris like him try to attain a stage where they go past such concerns. “A true sadhu won’t feel anything if he discovered his parents are dead.”Mr Nath confirms he hasn’t been in touch with his family in Deoria, UP, for a long time.The sadhu says that he performs sadhna only in the four shamshan ghats situated in Ujjain, Kashi, Kolkata and Kamakhya. Last year he’d visited the Kamakhya in Assam.“If the lockdown hadn’t taken place, I would be in Kedarnath dham right now,” he says, recalling the snowy mountains and streams he had encountered during his previous visits to the said Himalayan pilgrimage place.Once the world gets back to its old pre-corona life, Mr Nath hopes to pick up the pieces of his life as an aghori sadhu and strive to become the ideal of a person “who is beyond the pains and pleasures of this world.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-a-sadhu-in-isolation/story-ojcLVj0Lrlk9hjcswx7UOP.html
26-05-2020||India||Post curbs, promotion of domestic tourism will be our focus: Prahlad Singh Patel||New Delhi: Union tourism minister Prahlad Singh Patel spoke to Amrita Madhukalya about the impact of Covid-19 on the tourism industry, protocols to revive the sector after the lockdown, and the focus on domestic rather than international tourism to get the sector up and running again. Edited excerpts:Tourism industry experts have estimated that losses to the sector have mounted to $5 trillion and 38 million jobs might be lost. How can the tourism ministry help address this crisis? Demand has collapsed the world over, and hotels and airline owners are not able to produce revenue. On the demand side, many customers will not travel in the near future because of health as well as economic reasons. Travel agents and tour operators -- the distribution and value-added reseller industry -- will revive only when customers are no longer afraid of the pandemic and have sufficient money to travel, provided hotel-owners have managed to keep their assets in a good shape. Our objective, therefore, is to revive demand as soon as possible. One way we can do this is to help overcome the fear of health while travelling. The ministry will soon be releasing new post-lockdown protocols for accommodation units to give confidence to clients to travel and stay safely. We are also coming out with a set of recommendations for different segments -- travel agents, tour operators, transport operators, and facilitators/guides.International travel may take a few months to kick-start and the Prime Minister has spoken about the need to rely on domestic travel. How will the government rework domestic travel and tourism norms? The revival of the tourism sector post Covid-19 will depend on domestic tourism to a very large extent since international tourism is expected to take longer to pick up. Promotion of domestic tourism will be given greater focus through our “Dekho Apna Desh” campaigns. In domestic tourism, the thrust should be given to co-create holidays with farmers and rural India. This way, new wealth will be created and distributed. So the typical packages will woo a traveller to spend a weekend in a village, stay in a one-acre farmland, in a mud house, pluck mangoes, and buy fresh vegetables. In short, spend the weekend amid nature and return home on Sunday night. We have constituted a National Tourism Task Force for the revival of the hospitality and tourism industry headed by me. This includes state tourism ministers, joint secretary-level officers of concerned central ministries, and representatives from associations such as Ficci, CII, Assocham, WTCII as well as heads of tourism and hospitality associations. This Committee will make recommendations for the revival of the tourism sector.If hotels and homestays open, what protocols will be put in place? In future, tourism will totally change. Safety, hygiene, and security will be the top concerns. Clients will travel to a destination only if they have proof that the place they are visiting , eating and staying is absolutely virus-free. protocols for accommodation units, restaurants, B&B and homestays, convention centres and exhibitions have been formulated and are in the consultation stage. These will be released soon. The new protocol aims to minimise all possible touch points between a staff and guest while at the hotel.Will there be any change in the different schemes of the ministry now, because most of the efforts are invested in wooing the international traveller, to revive the sector?I have requested my officials to work out reforms in the existing schemes like Market Development Assistance to extend it to promote domestic tourism, and to work our schemes to jointly support the marketing efforts of tour operators and the hospitality industry.There are many other factors that contribute to the tourism sector’s income. The overall stimulus given to the economy by Prime Minister Narendra Modi through a special economic and comprehensive package will have a positive impact on the tourism industry by creating demand and business as incomes will flow into the hand of people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/post-curbs-promotion-of-domestic-tourism-will-be-our-focus-prahlad-singh-patel/story-zsUNz6n5Edsi88lvn3xYkJ.html
26-05-2020||India||China may have posted 5,000 soldiers across LAC, officials say as tension grows along border||China may have marshalled close to 5,000 soldiers on its side of the disputed border in the Ladakh sector where India has also sent military reinforcements to strengthen its defences as growing tension along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) threatens to plunge the bilateral relationship to a new low, people familiar with the development said on Monday.Indian and Chinese soldiers are eyeball-to-eyeball at four locations along the LAC and several rounds of talks between local military commanders , including a meeting on Monday, have failed to end the standoff that began with a violent confrontation between rival patrols three weeks ago near Pangong Tso.Also Read: Army Chief Naravane’s 2012 prophecy on Chinese strategy rings true in Ladakh sectorThere have been troop reinforcements by China, around 5,000 of whose troops may now be present in the region, two officials said on condition of anonymity. The Chinese forces are not concentrated anywhere near the flashpoints, but scattered on their side, the officials said.Sending the military reinforcements, including troops, vehicles and heavy equipment, did not require much effort as China diverted the resources from an ongoing military exercise in the region, said one of the officials cited above.India is tracking all aspects of the Chinese deployments and parity in troop numbers is being ensured, said the second official cited above.China’s state-run media has described the latest tensions as the worst since the 2017 Doklam standoff that lasted 73 days.Also Read: China’s tactical play in Ladakh isn’t just about the boundaryOfficials and China watchers said that there was no need to get too fixated on numbers when it comes to troop reinforcements on either side of the disputed border.“As long as troops remain in their current positions and there are no further transgressions, it could set the stage for talks to defuse the situation,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd).He added that there was no space for the deployment of 5,000 troops along the LAC and it was quite possible that the reinforcements were in so-called “depth areas.” His reference is to areas within the Chinese side of the LAC.There has to be parity in troop numbers at the face-off sites and the back-up areas, said Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd), also a former Northern Army commander.“You have to show presence of troops to induce dissuasion. And you also have to be concerned about the military build-up escalating into a conflict.”Also Read: New chopper drone may be deployed along India border: Chinese state mediaArmy chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane made a low-key visit to Ladakh last week for a security review as tensions grew between India and China near Pangong Tso and three pockets in the Galwan Valley region where Chinese troops have pitched close to 100 tents and erected temporary structures to establish a presence.Chinese soldiers are also said to be constructing bunkers in some disputed areas.HT was the first to report on May 10 about tensions flaring between India and China in north Sikkim where 150 soldiers were involved in a tense standoff a day earlier. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured at Naku La during the confrontation.Around 250 soldiers from the two countries clashed near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5-6, with the scuffle leaving scores of troops injured. While an immediate flare-up was avoided as both armies stuck to protocols to resolve the situation, tensions spread to other pockets along the LAC.The latest standoff is not confined to a small area, has triggered an increase in troop numbers on both sides at multiple locations and seems to suggest a greater design rather than adventurism by local commanders, as reported by HT on Sunday.Experts said breaking the stalemate would require political direction and diplomatic intervention.Both India and China are locked in a war of words over the border row. Last week, India rejected Beijing’s allegation that Indian troops were responsible for triggering tensions, and instead accused the Chinese army of hindering Indian patrols.The Indian reaction came after China’s foreign ministry accused Indian troops of trespassing across the LAC and said Beijing had to take “necessary countermeasures” after the Indian Army allegedly obstructed patrols by Chinese troops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-may-have-posted-5-000-soldiers-on-lac-officials-say-as-tension-grows-along-border-in-ladakh/story-MrbTCUNY6ihfTNUGK40XcM.html
26-05-2020||India||Home isolation is key, hospitals ready: Delhi CM Kejriwal||New Delhi Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday that home isolation was effective for Covid-19 patients with mild or no symptoms and tried to ease concerns about the adequacy of Delhi’s hospital infrastructure to accommodate serious cases, as the city’s coronavirus disease tally rose past 14,000.Kejriwal, who ordered the addition of 1,500 more Covid beds in Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, pointed out how after May 17, when the lockdown was eased to allow restricted business and commercial activity, the city-state experienced a relatively low increase in hospital bed occupancy despite recording an increase of around 3,500 fresh cases in that period.“Between May 17, when several relaxations were implemented, and yesterday (Sunday), Delhi witnessed an increase of around 3,500 fresh cases but, in the same period, around 2,500 people have recovered from the disease,” Kejriwal said in a press briefing by video link. “Also, in the same period, the number of hospital bed occupancies rose by around 250 only,” Kejriwal said. “Till yesterday (Sunday), 3,314 individuals were in home isolation compared to around 2,000 individuals admitted in hospitals.”His comments came a day after the Delhi government ordered private hospitals with 50 or more beds to set aside 20% of their bed strength for Covid-19 patients in a measure meant to prepare the city’s health care system for a surge in infections. The capital has 117 private hospitals that will be covered by this rule, which officials said was necessitated because dedicated privately run Covid hospitals were now running close to their capacity.As of Monday, Delhi had reported 14,053 cases of Covid-19. Of these, with 7,006 active Covid-19 cases and 276 deaths, the chief minister stressed that the government was not running out of beds for treatment of serious patients. The Delhi government’s daily health bulletin recorded 15 new deaths on Monday.“We have a total of 3,829 beds in our Covid-dedicated government hospitals. Out of this, 1,478 are occupied and 2,351 are vacant. We have 250 ventilators, of which only 11 are being used at the moment,” the CM said. “At present, we have around 4,500 beds available, out of which around 2,500 are vacant. Once the 1,500 beds in GTB Hospital are ready, we will have more than 5,500 beds ready for Covid-19 treatment,” Kejriwal said.Also, on Monday, senior government officials said, the Delhi government engaged Geospatial Delhi Limited (GSDL) — its own subsidiary — for the geospatial mapping of Covid-19 home isolation cases for better monitoring and municipal ward-specific trend analysis on a daily basis.Geospatial mapping is a type of analysis that uses computer software that is capable of making maps, applying analytical methods to geographical datasets and processing spatial data. “Effective steps to streamline the monitoring of each and every home quarantine case are being taken. Steps are being taken to ensure accurate allocation of cases to appropriate districts through GSDL mapping,” Delhi’s chief secretary Vijay Dev said.GSD has so far been engaged in preparing a municipal ward-wise Covid-19 heat map of the Capital, but the ambit of the exercise has now been expanded to cover home quarantine cases separately. The maps, however, are not available in the public domain. GSDL had earlier helped the Delhi government in mapping the boundaries of Delhi’s 1,797 unauthorised colonies.Kejriwal said on Monday: “The number of cases is going up in Delhi. But we are prepared… What really would have concerned us was a spike in the number of serious patients, which could have led to a collapse of the health infrastructure system in place. But it is not so… Most cases that are surfacing these days are those of patients with either mild or no symptoms, which are not required to be admitted in hospital. A special team which my office monitors talks to the patients in home isolation and their families on a daily basis and reports their health status.”The home isolation facility, according to guidelines issued by the government, can be availed of by an individual who has tested Covid-19 positive but has mild or no symptoms.Charoo Hans, former head of the microbiology department in Delhi’s Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, said: “Home isolation for patients with mild symptoms and no co-morbid conditions can be an effective strategy to reduce burden on hospitals. But all necessary precautions have to be taken by the patients and the caregiver. The health of patients and caregivers has to be monitored.”The Delhi government had issued a detailed standard operating procedure (SOP) on May 1. The SOP demands isolation in a separate room for at least 16 days, a separate toilet, periodic calls from surveillance teams, house visit by health teams and making the patient and caregiver download the Aarogya Setu app. The SOPs also include putting an isolation sticker on the gate of the residence, wearing a triple-layered face mask by the patient that is to be routinely discarded, and by the caregiver when in the same room, use of hand gloves during any physical exchange, and avoiding contact with potentially contaminated items such as utensils, clothes, towels and bed sheets.The person will be allowed to come out of isolation only after two of his/her tests turn up negative for Covid-19. Once home isolation ends, the person will still be under surveillance for another 14 days, and they are not to attend any gathering, the guidelines say.Kejriwal also clarified that it was the responsibility of the hospitals to arrange a bed in a Covid-designated health facility if a patient gets infected by Covid-19 and take the patient there in its ambulance.“A private hospital had asked a patient to look for a bed himself when he got infected with corona. We have served a show-cause notice to that hospital as to why its license should not be cancelled,” Kejriwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-bats-for-hospital-while-ordering-augmenting-of-covid-beds-in-delhi/story-CKbi4fdP1rcf3k1joaFa9M.html
26-05-2020||India||Mixing patients may worsen Covid-19 spread, warn private hospitals||Reserving beds for Covid-19 patients in hospitals treating people with other ailments might lead to a further spread of the infection, warned private hospitals and doctors, who are writing to the government to review its decision.The Delhi government had on Sunday directed 117 hospitals – with 50 beds or more – to reserve 20% space for coronavirus patients, to deal with the surge in cases. This would have added around 2,000 beds for Covid-19 patients in private sector hospitals, apart from the 677 existing beds in 10 designated hospitals.Delhi on Monday reported 635 more cases, taking the count to 14,053, the Delhi government’s daily bulletin reported. Fifteen deaths were reported, taking the tally to 276.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “The bigger hospitals that have several blocks can manage to dedicate these beds. However, the challenge will be for smaller ones as they might not have enough space or separate entry and exits to ensure Covid-19 and non-Covid patients are segregated properly. This might lead to a spread of the infection within the hospitals,” said Dr Girish Tyagi, president of Delhi Medical Association.Dr PK Bharadwaj, secretary, Delhi Voluntary Hospitals forum, an association of large private hospitals, said, “We should learn from the experiences of other countries. In countries such as Italy and Spain, treating Covid-19 patients alongside non-Covid patients ed to several hospitals becoming transmission hot spots.” Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe Delhi government did not respond to multiple calls and messages for comment.Doctors from Italy have been reported as saying that the overloaded hospitals became sources of the contagion. In England, around 20% patients hospitalised with Covid-19 had contracted the disease while being treated for other ailments, according to a report by the Guardian a week ago.In lieu of the beds allocated for Covid-19 patients, the Delhi government allowed the hospitals to add 25% more beds by relaxing norms for space and manpower. “This means crowding of limited spaces in these hospitals, leading to a further increase in the risk of the spread of the infection. Plus, smaller hospitals might not have enough staff to have some exclusively working in Covid areas. Irrespective of the precautions taken, this is bound to spread the infection. The Centre must step in and reverse the order,” said a private doctor from the city, on condition of anonymity.Earlier, the Delhi government had decided to designate only independent hospitals or those with separate blocks for the treatment of Covid-19 patients such as one block in Max Smart Super Specialty hospital or the two independent hospitals under Sir Gangaram -- Kolmet and City.Also read| ‘Get ready’: WHO warns of ‘second peak’ in areas where Covid-19 decliningWhile scaling up Covid-19 facilities at its own hospitals, the Delhi government had initially reserved some beds in five of its hospitals in April first week. Fearing a mixing of Covid and non-Covid patients, the government decided to use two of its hospitals – the 2000-bed Lok Nayak and 500 bed Rajiv Gandhi Superspecialty hospital – in its entirety days later.At All India Institute of Medical Sciences, people with Covid are being treated at the Trauma Centre on Ring Road and the Cancer centre in Jhajjar, which are completely isolated from the main campus where non-Covid patients are being treated in the emergency department. At Safdarjung, a separate Superspecialty block and in Ram Manohar Lohia, a separate Trauma block are being used for Covid patients.“If the government needs to take over beds in the private sector, instead of getting 2,000 beds in over hundred hospitals, they can take over a few of the bigger hospitals,” said Dr Bharadwaj.Also read| ‘Buy PPE only from approved producers’: Govt advisoryExperts agree. “The government was to scale up its facilities during the lockdown. So why does it need to acquire private hospitals? And even if they do have to, they should take over whole hospitals, pay the rent and salary of the staff and manage cases there. There shouldn’t be any mixing of Covid and non-Covid cases. The Centre seems to have failed in clearly creating and communicating a master plan for management of Covid cases,” said Dr T Jacob John, professor emeritus and former head of virology department at Christian Medical College, Vellore.The Delhi Medical Association is also writing to the Delhi government to extend the health insurance for health care workers in the government sector to the private sector, ensure availability of PPE kits, masks, sanitisers, and respirators at government rates, and create a separate facility for treating health care workers with Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mixing-patients-may-worsen-covid-spread-warn-private-hospitals/story-OGOK0SpRrWVS352asbDihN.html
26-05-2020||India||BJP’s one year in office: Virtual rallies, letter from PM Modi to 10 crore Indians to mark anniversary||The Bharatiya Janata Party will organise a series of programmes both online and on the ground to mark its first year in office on May 30, said functionaries aware of the details.A letter with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s message to the countrymen will be distributed to about 10 crore households by booth level workers. The letter distribution, functionaries said, will be limited to those areas which do not fall under containment zones. As for containment zones, the letter will be delivered electronically and on social media platforms.According to a senior party functionary, a virtual rally will be organised, as will 1,000 online interactions across the country. “This is not the first time that the party is relying on the virtual world to connect with the masses, but now it is being scaled up,” said the functionary.Also Read: In exclusive interview, Modi’s reply on 3 big achievements as PMMarking party’s dominant return, the focus of the rallies and the interactions will carry the message of self reliance or Atama Nirbhar Bharat given by the prime minister. The celebratory interaction will also cover the Rs 20 lakh crore financial package announced by the government to revive economy hit by coronavirus pandemic. The interactions will also spotlight the efforts made by government to contain the spread of the virus outbreak in the country, which has claimed over three lakh lives globally.Additionally, BJP president JP Nadda will inaugurate the anniversary functions with an online address to the BJP workers through social media platforms such as Facebook live.Also Read: ‘Our workers have toiled to bring positive changes’: PM Modi extends greetings on 40 years of BJPNarendra Modi-led BJP swept back to power last year on May 24 with a majority bigger than in 2014. The party secured a run-away victory by winning 303 seats, far beyond the 272-mark they needed for a majority in the Lok Sabha. The 2019 results also showed rise in party’s seat share, which rose from 282 seats secured by BJP in 2014. In the past, the party had used 3D technology in its campaign for the Lok Sabha elections. Video conferences with 3D images of Prime minister Modi were also used to reach masses in remote areas during campaigning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-s-one-year-in-office-virtual-rallies-letter-from-pm-modi-to-10-crore-indians-to-mark-anniversary/story-icqNcUVV5SzsstsUx9utyJ.html
26-05-2020||India||Cancellations hit travellers hard as flights resume at Mumbai airport after 2 months||After being suspended for almost two months, commercial flight operations in Mumbai commenced on Monday morning in a calibrated manner. At Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA), 47 flights were operated (arrival and departure) throughout the day, where seven airlines catered to 14 sectors. The first flight departed for Patna at 6:45 am and a Lucknow flight was the first arrival at 8:20 am, both operated by IndiGo. Of the total 47 flights, eleven flights were operated to and from Delhi, four Kochi, Hyderabad, Varanasi, Bangalore and Patna, two were to be operated to and from Calicut, Diu, Lucknow, Nagpur, Chandigarh, Gorakhpur, Allahabad and one flight was due to take off for Jaipur. ALSO READ | Domestic flights resume today after ‘long day of hard negotiations’However, there was chaos and confusion due to last minute changes in flight schedules as a result of differences between the central and state governments. The restrictions on the number of flights placed by some states led to cancellation of scheduled services.Sudhanshu Pandey, who was on an official trip to Mumbai has been stranded for two months and was booked on an 8 am flight to Delhi on Monday. “I had no idea that my flight was cancelled and it was only at 6.30 am that I learnt about my flight status while I was entering the check-in area. I had booked three cabs in advance so that I don’t face issues while travelling to the airport. This is the second time that my air ticket money is blocked.” At least, 4,852 passengers (3,752 departing passengers and 1,100 arriving passengers) were flown to and from Mumbai airport on Monday. The highest passenger load capacity was seen on the Delhi route departing out of CSMIA. ALSO READ | Worried but work comes first: Flight attendants as domestic air travel resumesAirport sources confirmed that the airport will be operating 44 flights on Tuesday and Wednesday. Using its A320 aircraft, low-cost carrier- IndiGo operated 19 flights (eight arrivals and 11 departures) from CSMIA on Monday. SpiceJet is expected to operate ten flights (five departures and five arrivals). The airline will be utilizing its Boeing 738 aircraft for these flights. With the help of its A320 aircraft, Air Asia India operated two departures and two arrivals. Full service carrier Vistara too operated four flights (two arrivals and two departures) from Mumbai airport on Monday. National carrier Air India operated four flights using two aircraft- A320 for arrival and departure to Kochi and B787 for arrival and departure operations to the national capital- Delhi. Using its ATRs, Air India’s subsidiary- Alliance Air operated two flights (arrival and departure to Diu) while Air India Express, which too will operate two flights and will use its B738 aircraft. Jammu resident, Prashant Sharma, who was stuck in Mumbai after an event in March said, “I want to leave Mumbai as I am facing issues with my accommodation. Though I am currently residing in a friend’s home, the housing society members had made it clear to me that I won’t be given entry into the society premises if I return from the airport in case the flight is cancelled. Hence I decided to stay home. I have not received payment for the event for which I had come to Mumbai and I have lost Rs. 12,000 only in booking my tickets.”A passenger Devendra Nath Tripathi tweeted, “We are at the Mumbai Airport for AI-809 and have no confirmation for the flight. Air India online status shows flight on time. Ground reality is grim... No cabs to return…no water despite boarding pass. Terrible management by #Air India.” Ashwini Pandey, a banker and a resident of Chennai had purchased tickets of four airlines to reach Mumbai but all his four flights were cancelled. “I have to join my work urgently on June 10. Only if I reach Mumbai now, I can join my new office after finishing my quarantine period. Two flights got cancelled today and two flights that were scheduled on Tuesday too have been cancelled.”Rishi Goel, a Shimla resident who works in Mumbai said that he wanted to return as his wife delivered during the lockdown. Goel could board his Chandigarh-bound flight but termed his experience before reaching the airport troublesome. He said, “My airline first messaged me that my flight was cancelled and then sent an updated message that my flight was on time. Their website, however, continued to show my flight to be cancelled. It was only at 3 am that the airline website was updated with my flight status and I could take off at 9am.”It was however a happy day for Mohammad Ansari who could reach Allahabad to celebrate Eid. “I had enquired about my flight status a day before departure. As the flight was on time, I reached the airport and took off on time.”“Resumption of flights from May 25 has caused a lot of chaos for the passengers. The problem for passengers began with individual states rolling out their guidelines relating to the operationality of airports and post travel quarantine rules that left travellers high and dry. With only a fraction of flights allowed to operate from some of the busiest airports, this resulted in a spike in cancellations with majority of travellers left uncertain about their travel. To add to this the ability of Air India to manage the current situation has added to the angst of passengers,” said Nishant Pitti, co- founder, easemytrip.com.Senior airport officials revealed that the airport also handled a few non scheduled flights, Vande Bharat and cargo flights taking the total number of flights operated to around 84. Mumbai airport, which used to handle around 950 flights daily, has been shut from March 25, except for evacuation and cargo operations.According to the health ministry guidelines, all arriving passengers were screened for body temperature.“All the arriving passengers will be stamped on their left hand for identification and will have to undergo compulsory home isolation for the period of seven days as per the protocol by the municipal corporation. Passengers, who are coming in for a short duration and have planned for a return or onward journey, will have to share the details of the same and will be exempted from the isolation. Furthermore, the airport has created temporary isolation centres in case any passenger shows symptoms of the deadly virus during the screening process,” a MIAL spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cancellations-hit-travellers-hard-as-flights-resume-at-mumbai-airport-after-2-months/story-17PDpSqVYydSMcmJ0sSvJN.html
26-05-2020||India||Man sets off on foot from Mumbai for Bihar amid lockdown. Gets home in 27 days||Soon after the Maharashtra government announced shutdown of workplaces from March 21 to check the spread of Covid-19, Harivansh Choudhary set off on foot from Mumbai, not knowing that it would take him 27 days to reach his village.A native of Darbhanga district in Bihar, the 32-year-old was employed at a steel factory in Mumbai’s Bhayandar, when his employers suddenly asked him to proceed on leave. He had Rs 240, which was borrowed earlier in the month against his salary.With earning avenues shut, he decided to take the train to his native place. But to his shock, the train got cancelled after he had purchased an unreserved ticket for Rs 445.“All trains bound for Bihar, except the one going to Patna, were cancelled,” he was told by a railway enquiry staff member. Harivansh then called his father, Krishna Choudhary, who advised his only son to stay safe and make a practical decision.He then boarded a Patna-bound train, which after 5-6 hours of journey suddenly halted and was subsequently cancelled.Giving an account of Harivansh’s travails, mukhiya (village headman) of Panchobh panchayat, Rajiv Kumar Choudhary, said, “He had only Rs 500 out of which Rs 445 were already spent on buying a train ticket. It was his sheer grit that he decided to walk home, a distance of 1,800 km from the point where the train ended its journey.”Harivansh joined a group of 25 people from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar and began walking without knowing how long it would take for him to walk back home. “I would walk for hours along the railway tracks, on the road and at times with the group. At times we used to sleep under the shade of a tree. We usually walked from 5.30 in the morning till 8-9 pm daily, with breaks in between,” he recalled.“There was no food, but thankfully a few people offered us biscuits and water. Some also offered food,” he said, while talking to HT.Harivansh and his group were lucky that they got help from cargo truck drivers. “We got lift on trucks nearly 6-7 times. It gave respite to us from trekking for a period ranging between 45 minutes and 4 hours,” recalled Harivansh while showing his swollen feet.“Some truck drivers even guided us to take a particular route to reach our home state,” he said.At Itarasi in Madhya Pradesh, they were joined by a huge crowd walking towards their respective destinations in MP, UP and Bihar. “We never thought about distance. We just walked and walked,” recalled Harivansh, who was stopped by police at numerous checkpoints en route. “After we showed them our health certificate slips, which were issued in Mumbai, they would allow us to proceed,” he said.“My mobile phone died on me somewhere in MP and I lost touch with my family,” he said. “During the course of trekking, I got separated from the group. A policeman helped me and gave me Rs 200 for food. In Bihar’s Saran district, at one of the checkpoints, police forced him to undergo health screening by a medical team. They didn’t trust my medical slip, which had almost soiled by now due to excessive sweating,” he narrated.His long trek to Darbhanga finally ended on April 16, when he reached the village and his family heaved a sigh of relief.“It was like a nightmare. We cannot explain in words,” said the man’s father Krishna Choudhary.“We put him at a quarantine centre as soon as he entered the village and informed officials about his arrival. He was taken to Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital for health screening on April 17,” the father added. Darbhanga district magistrate, Thiyagrajan SM, when contacted on Tuesday said that he will ensure that the person concerned gets some work after completion of the 14-day quarantine period. People in the region do not doubt Harivansh’s claim of having walked so long. Doctors too say it is doable. “Walking for long depends on the physical power of the person and cardio respiratory status. A young man especially a labourer is adapted to the muscular exertion and the body supports him. The ejection fraction of the heart matters a lot because the cardiac condition determines the adaptability of stress,” said orthopedic expert Dr Amulya Kumar Singh. “If a person is walking 60 to 70 kms per day with proper food and water with intermittent rest, then he can walk and heart and lung can take stress but if the food habit is poor and body takes unaccustomed exertion, then the body will form lots of unwanted products like ketone bodies etc, and this will have detrimental effect,” Singh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-32-sets-off-on-foot-from-mumbai-for-home-in-bihar-gets-home-in-27-days/story-jZM00KBhPUyqQEqifaXydL.html
26-05-2020||Editorials||A wake-up call for Mumbai | HT Editorial||India’s financial capital, Mumbai, now has over 30,000 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19); more than 1,000 people have died due to the infection. On May 24 and 25, the city reported the second highest number of cases among cities anywhere in the world, right after Moscow. One in every five cases in India can be traced back to the city, while one in every four people who has died nationally has been a Mumbai resident. It has singularly made Maharashtra the most severely affected state in the country, with cases going beyond 50,000, and rising every day.There are, of course, immediate triggers for the surge in cases. To its credit, Maharashtra has also tested more people than the national average. But the systemic weaknesses are clear — the delay in screening passengers in the earlier part of the year (which was not unique to Maharashtra but appears to have had a greater impact in terms of spread), the failure to use the lockdown to ramp up health infrastructure, the absence of proper coordination which has resulted in patients having to rush from hospital to hospital in search of critical care services, and the high number of health care workers who have got infected.But these are symptoms of a wider crisis. Mumbai is a symbol of India’s flawed urbanisation and poor planning. It has a high density of population, with the least proportion of open spaces per 1,000 people. Slums occupy 7% of the city’s land area, but, according to the 2011 census, four out of 10 residents lived in slums — a proportion that may have grown. A corrupt nexus between political authorities, private businesses and real estate developers has meant that precious public land, which could have been used for public housing, has been taken over by private operators. Sixty per cent of the slum households don’t have toilets and there is a substantial shortage of public toilets. But instead of eradicating the squalor, the city has taken pride in it — to the extent of romanticising it. The disparity in health systems is stark, with super specialised private hospitals coexisting with an abysmal public health care system. While the overcrowded local train may be an iconic symbol of the city, it actually represents the weakness of public transport systems. Despite having the richest local government body in the country, municipal governance is weak. All of this — the absence of adequate public housing, public health, public transport, sanitation — has today come back to haunt the city. Mumbai must, for its sake and for the sake of India, use this crisis as a wake-up call.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/a-wake-up-call-for-mumbai/story-MrFQeGmbZyAWpORVH2t7YI.html
26-05-2020||Editorials||Home isolation works, but with responsibility | HT Editorial||Delhi chief minister (CM) Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said that home isolation was an effective option for patients with mild or no symptoms of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).This is in line with a health ministry advisory from the end of April, which had allowed home isolation, but under conditions — a 24x7 caregiver; constant communication between the caregiver and a hospital; and immediate medical help if severe symptoms developed, among others.The Delhi CM’s categorical call for home isolation is welcome. The number of Covid-19 cases is continuing to rise in the Capital, and the peak is, according to medical experts advising the government, yet to arrive. The health care infrastructure is under strain. Anticipating this, the Delhi government has put aside an additional 1,500 Covid-19 beds at a government facility, and asked private hospitals and nursing homes to reserve at least 20% of their total bed strength for Covid-19 patients. Many patients may also be able to cope better emotionally with the disease if allowed to recuperate with their families.The home isolation plan, however, will only work if there is strict monitoring on the ground, which in itself is not easy given India’s weak governance structure, and the State apparatus is busy tackling several other related crises. But it is, most crucially, dependent on the idea of citizens exercising responsibility and care, by being transparent about their health status, reaching out to doctors on time, and following the home isolation protocol in letter and spirit. Do it for yourself, for your families, for the community, and for the city you call home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/home-isolation-works-but-with-responsibility/story-I3MkWHzL3eD5MwojWGXa7O.html
