27-05-2020||News||When US threatened to leave WHO | Opinion||United States (US) President Donald Trump recently suspended financial support to the World Health Organization (WHO) and has threatened to quit the world body. This news took me back nearly 40 years when, while serving in the Union ministry of health and family welfare, I was involved in dealing with a similar threat from the US.It was May 1982. I was in Geneva to represent India in the annual session of the World Health Assembly (WHA) which, at that time, had over 160 member countries and met for two weeks to deal with varied health and medical issues. The large agenda was split and discussed in two commissions, named “A” and “B”. The 1982 WHA unanimously elected me to chair the functioning of commission “B”. Our then ambassador in Geneva, AP Venkateswaran, reported this event as a “diplomatic victory” for India, especially as it came without lobbying. As in the functioning of any United Nations organisation, WHO member-countries also never lost an opportunity to raise health issues which provided an opening for airing their views on current political controversies. Before the WHA proceedings began, I carefully read every agenda item entrusted to my commission. Neither I, nor the more experienced secretariat personnel, realised that a certain matter would generate an upheaval that would threaten the existence of WHO. This related to a draft resolution, moved by a group of Afro-Arab countries, which sought to focus attention on the poor health conditions of the Palestinians living in the Israeli-occupied territories. I was not overly concerned by this as there were similar items which sought the provision of health assistance to refugees in Cyprus and Lebanon and to the flood-affected in Yemen.Former WHO director-general, Halfdan Mahler, was on the dais with me when the aforesaid agenda item came up and I allowed the leader of the Palestine delegation to introduce it. Inter-alia, the agenda note referred to an expert committee report on the subject and to the reports presented by the Palestinian Liberation Organization, the Israeli health ministry and the specialised UN agency for providing relief to the Palestinian refugees. While calling for the establishment of WHO-supervised health centres in the occupied territories, reference was also drawn to an earlier UN General Assembly resolution on this matter. Before I could announce the name of the next delegate to speak on the subject, the leader of the US delegation, Dr John Bryant (also a member of the executive committee), wanted to make an urgent statement. Normally, comments from the floor were allowed only after the sponsoring country representatives complete their statements. Bryant raised serious objection to a portion of the operative paragraph of the draft resolution which, if accepted, would have the effect of cutting-off the membership rights and services of Israel. He announced that if this matter was discussed any further, he was under instruction to state that his country “here and now suspends its budgetary support” (which was about half of WHO’s annual budget) and withdraws from WHO. As soon as Bryant completed his statement, delegates from Israel and several other countries stood up and pronounced full support for the US’ stand. Delegates from Palestine and many Arab and African countries stood up and voiced support for the Palestinian cause. The ensuing pandemonium was unprecedented.I kept striking the gavel and calling for order till there was a lull in which I announced a break to consider how WHA could proceed further. After a brief exchange with Mahler, I stepped into the assembly hall and for the next hour-and-a-half held discussions with the leaders of the warring groups. I found that there was no ready meeting point and also realised that if the situation was allowed to go unchecked, there would be grave consequences for WHO, besides the failure of my chairmanship. It was already past the lunch hour. Getting back on the dais, I informed WHA that my parleys would continue and the commission would reassemble next morning at the scheduled time. For the next 12 hours, I held intensive discussions with protagonists on both sides and also met several eminent health ministers (attending WHA). I also met the iconic Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat arrrived late in the evening.After several rounds of negotiations with the Arab, African, Israeli, American and other delegations concerned, I managed to soften their earlier positions. Also, in the course of these discussions, I had virtually redone the original draft resolution. In the early hours of the next morning, I called a senior secretariat staff to arrange for copies of the revised draft resolution to be distributed before WHA commenced its work.An uneasy calm prevailed in the hall when I called the meeting to order. I spoke briefly about my efforts since the previous day and about the agreed changes made in the original draft. I read out the revised resolution and asked if there were any observations from any quarter. There was silence. I announced that the resolution was passed and struck the gavel to move on to the next agenda item. There was a perceptible sigh of relief . WHO had been saved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/when-us-threatened-to-leave-who/story-iyTyvGg6wQnhqEZm5qsiWO.html
27-05-2020||News||A blueprint to make local Indian brands truly global||Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi, on May 12, said, “Today it is the need of the hour that India should play a big role in the global supply chains”. With global supply chains disrupted by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, India can and must turn this crisis into an opportunity. A close reading of the PM’s speech revealed his vision for an aatma nirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India). It is about making India self-confident and self-reliant to take global competition head on. A passion for quality and excellence, achieving cost competitiveness through size and scale to penetrate global markets are the mantras that we need to follow to make India truly aatma nirbhar.Champion companies like Jio in telephony, Tatas in Steel, Mahindra in automobiles, Vedanta in metals and mining, ITC Limited in the fast-moving consumer goods sector, Amul in the dairy sector, among others, are making a name for themselves on both domestic and global stages. These brands, while gaining significant franchises across the world, are also creating enormous value for India. The nation needs to transform our local champions into global ones. Brands such as ITC and Amul have the processing capabilities and market linkages to serve the world, benefiting farmers in the process. ITC has invested in cutting-edge research and development to anchor domestic agri-value chains. The Amul success story bears no repetition. In automobiles, brands such as Tata, Mahindra, Hero and Bajaj are internationally recognised. FabIndia in garments and Forest Essentials in wellness and cosmetics are other examples. India must create a policy environment that enables local brands to thrive on the global stage.Many countries have enabled the creation of global giants, and we must learn from them. Japan’s auto companies such as Toyota and Honda have dominated the world. South Korea has created technology giants such as Samsung and LG. China has enabled the creation of giants in the electronics, toys, apparel and solar energy sectors. The Japanese economic miracle saw a war-ravaged country transform into a global leader. South Korea’s per capita income was $158 in 1960, compared to $82 in India and $89 in China. Its per capita income in 2018 was $31,362. China and India had similar levels of per capita income in 1990. By 2018, China’s per capita incomes accelerated to $9,770, compared to $2,010 for India. These countries nurtured domestic industry, focused on cost competitiveness, quality, size, scale and adoption of cutting edge technologies to enable global expansion.The government must facilitate the creation of an aatma nirbhar Bharat. The first avenue is to enable economies of scale in Indis’s manufacturing. For this, action will be required at the state level. Cross-subsidisation of energy, making it cheaper for consumers at the expense of industry, needs to go. We need to provide industries with a regular and cheap supply of power to boost their competitiveness, along with the creation of plug-and-play facilities. The second avenue is land. States must identify and develop large tracts of land and provide them with infrastructure. States must also ease the process of labour laws. Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have phased out older labour laws. Other labour-sending states must do the same, while taking care of the concerns of workers. Easing the regulatory environment will ensure that we attract both domestic and foreign capital to our industrial hubs.Related to all of this is urbanisation. Self-sufficiency in job creation and domestic demand will be driven by urbanisation. Urban innovation, decentralisation and municipal finance will serve as great tools to ensure that we implement the PM’s vision. Decentralisation will ensure that cities are able to govern themselves without depending on the state and central governments excessively. Next, we must connect our urban and industrial hubs through efficient infrastructure.The Centre must continue its push in elevating infrastructure to world-class standards. Timely land acquisition, environment clearances and release of funds must be ensured so that projects are completed on time. The ministry of road transport and highways has created a portal “Bhoomi Rashi” to fast-track the land acquisition process. All other government departments should adopt this model.Next, the government must drive efficiencies in the logistics sector. India’s port turnaround time is around 60 hours; China’s 20 hours and Korea’s 12 hours. So there is room for improvement. Digitisation of ports, moving processes to an online system will reduce compliance costs. Port collaborative decision-making must be implemented at the earliest. The development of 200 minor ports, through public-private partnerships, must be pursued.The government’s role is to create an enabling environment for large-scale manufacturing and sourcing. The private sector must also work to develop flexible and resilient supply chains. They must achieve cost competitiveness through frugal innovation, technology adoption and leadership, along with a focus on process efficiencies. The PM emphasised that we must raise the quality of products. Therefore, the adoption of global quality standards is imperative. The reforms in agriculture are being hailed as a 1991 moment for the sector. Commercial coal mining and putting out more than 500 mines for bidding will see our dependency on imports of minerals reduce. Reforms in the civil service and the judiciary are needed to reduce regulatory burdens. India must create an ecosystem encouraging innovation and the development of new technologies. Reforms in apprenticeship and education, along with expanding public investments in human capital are required so that our workforce is prepared to take the challenges posed by global competition head-on.Aatma Nirbhar Bharat is not anti-globalisation. It is about making India self-confident and self-reliant to take on global competition. It is about driving India’s socioeconomic transformation.Amitabh Kant is chief executive officer, NITI AayogThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/a-blueprint-to-make-local-indian-brands-truly-global/story-XUvbyw0ASjftpG5saeZOxM.html
27-05-2020||News||The five Ps of disaster management, writes Abhishek Singhvi||Representing West Bengal (WB), as I do in Parliament, I recall it seeing the deadliest cyclones in the world, especially the oxymoronically named Bhola (1970) which claimed 500,000 lives. Amphan was the first super-cyclone in the Bay of Bengal after 1999 (ie, wind speeds beyond 220 kph). Though the temporal stretch of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) seems bigger, chief minister (CM) Mamata Banerjee may be accurate, at least in temporal proportionality, when she calls Amphan “a bigger disaster than Covid-19”. A constitutional authority cannot be ignored if she says that 70% of the state’s population has been severely affected and when she underlines the quadruple whammy of Covid-19, the lockdown, migrants’ resettlement and the cyclone.In less than two days, Bengal lost around Rs 1 lakh crore. The cyclone left 80 dead, hundreds of thousands homeless, uprooted trees, ravaged houses, marooned dwellings, knocked out electricity and phone lines, flooded cities and villages, plundered embankments, fencings and boundaries. It wreaked ecological destruction and devastation, especially in the eco-sensitive Sundarbans. Not least was the ruination of Kolkata’s iconic Great Banyan Tree, among the world’s largest.Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s aerial tour yielded a relief package of Rs 1,000 crore ($132 million) for WB and Rs 500 crore ($66 million) for Odisha. These figures underestimate both the size of the disaster and, consequently, the size of the palliative.The Gujarat earthquake led to the central government releasing Rs 500 crore (at 2001 value, 20 years ago) plus ad hoc release of share in central taxes. The Centre is yet to release to Bengal the pending Goods and Services Tax refunds of approx Rs 2,400 crore for last quarter of FY 2019-20 (To be sure, Bengal is not alone in this regard). The CM has rightly reminded the PM about Rs 53,000 crore on account of social security refunds from central government schemes (such as the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, Food Security Act and so on) owed to the state. Elementary but elemental steps are needed to be taken on an emergency basis to ensure efficient rehabilitation and effective growth of the affected areas. First, there is a need for a genuinely non-discriminatory and equal approach qua all states. The Gujarat episode led many international agencies to come up with financial assistance including the European Union, United States (US) Agency for International Development, Canadian International Development Agency and World Bank ($300 m) and Asian Development Bank ($500 m). Irrespective of Bengal’s eligibility, capacity or political orientation, the Centre owes it to such states to specially reach out to international institutions. Second, there is a need to exponentially increase government allocation to fight natural disasters. We should not be afflicted by the same “fiscal stimulus inflexibility” syndrome, reflected in the PM’s supposed Rs 20 lakh crore Covid-19 package.Third, we cannot, on the one hand, rightly project India as a global leader and, on the other, pale when it comes to justifiable proportionate global comparisons. In the 2011 tsunami-earthquake, Japan allocated $167 billion for rehabilitation and recovery. It made a five-year plan to do so comprehensively. Similarly, the US Congress allocated $121.7 billion in hurricane relief in 2005 and 2008. Earthquake-prone Iran allocated 2% its national annual budget towards disaster risk reduction, including $4 billion in 2012. Though precise figures for allocation “per head of vulnerable group” are not available, it is clear that comparisons with India on per-affected-population basis yield a dismal picture.Fourth, random allocation is far less useful than targeted and focused relief measures. Japan’s targeted five-year plan focussed on each stakeholder — from fisheries to housing and power. Knee-jerk reactions in grand mega-announcements after cyclones, without specific sub-allocations, lose their limited vigour and vitality by the time they reach the ground target.Fifth, planned and targeted measures need to be coupled with a robust institutional framework. After 2011, the Japanese government enacted the “Act on the Development of Tsunami-resilient Communities”, to efficiently combine structural and non-structural measures to minimise damage. All municipalities had to draft their reconstruction plans based on modelling and the plans were based entirely on urban planning, land management, structural mitigation and relocation. Such innovations have barely been conceptualised in India, much less implemented and even medium-term thinking, much less long-term planning, is conspicuously overwhelmed by short-term ad hocism.Finally, and ironically given our cyclical annual natural disasters, we have very little policy focus on pre-disaster countermeasures. Prevention is always better than cure, and such countermeasures will be highly effective as well as cost-effective. Many countries in their disaster-prone coastal regions have constructed high seawalls to protect vulnerable communities. Odisha’s cyclone shelters are a praiseworthy-but-partial achievement, deserving emulation.We need five “Ps” to cope up with recurring disasters — prominence, as in the role of governments; a pool of funds; planning, especially long-term, of rehabilitation and development; policy qua institutional support; and preparedness qua countermeasures. There is light after the longest tunnels and only with these five “Ps” can we dream with French impressionist Paul Gauguin, who said, “The cyclone ends. The sun returns; the lofty coconut trees lift up their plumes again; man does likewise. The great anguish is over; joy has returned; the sea smiles like a child.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-five-ps-of-disaster-management/story-zi7NiH5Zloec7QueUay0DK.html
27-05-2020||Mumbai||Governor Koshyari issues notification to provide appeal rights to tribals||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari issued a notification to provide the state’s tribals with appeal rights against district-level committees over their forest rights or community forest rights. According to the notification issued on May 18, divisional level committees headed by divisional commissioners will be constituted to hear the appeals of tribals against a decision of the district-level committee. The Governor has powers conferred under Schedule V of the Constitution, to issue such a notification. The provisions were made in section 6 of the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/governor-issues-notification-to-provide-appeal-rights-to-tribals/story-KNKli36vAnf0DzIv1hfTsM.html
27-05-2020||Mumbai||ICMR puts Mumbai on list of cities to undergo blood surveillance to check exposure to virus||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has selected Mumbai as one of the 10 hotspot cities and 60 districts in the country to conduct sero-surveillance, or a survey by which the presence of specific substances in the blood serum of a population is monitored. On Wednesday, the city recorded 1,044 new cases of Covid-19 cases and 32 new deaths, taking the total number of cases in the city to 34,018, and deaths to 1,097. Mumbai now accounts for 62.99% of all Covid-positive cases in Maharashtra and 57.82% of all deaths due to Covid-19 in the state.Sero-surveillance in Mumbai is expected to help determine the spread of Covid-19 in the general population and their exposure to the infection. The result of the survey will help determine guidelines to prevent and control the spread of Covid-19 in high-risk areas.There are 24,507 active cases of Covid-19 in Mumbai, and 8,408 patients have recovered so far. Mumbai’s mortality rate stands at 3.22%. At present, the city accounts for 65.99% of Maharashtra’s active Covid-19 cases.Five clusters have been randomly identified for ICMR’s survey: Kandivli (West) and Kandivli (East), Dharavi, Deonar, Kurla, and Sakinaka. The survey will collect blood samples from individuals in randomly-selected households and test them for Covid antibodies. Presence of antibodies in the blood is a sign of exposure to the virus. This will be done after taking patients’ consent and their detailed history. Five hundred individuals from these five clusters will be selected for the survey in Mumbai.On Wednesday, Dharavi saw a dip in the number of new cases, reporting 18 new cases after recording higher numbers for the past few days (38 new cases were reported on Tuesday; 42 on Monday, and 27 on Sunday). Assistant commissioner of the G (North) ward, which has jurisdiction over Dharavi, Kiran Dighavkar said, “The last time number of cases were in the teen figures was April 18, when Dharavi had reported 16 new cases. Then the total number of cases in Dharavi was 117.”The total number of Covid-positive in Dharavi is 1,639, of which 946 are active. As of Wednesday, 41.8% of Dharavi’s total cases have been cured and discharged.As of Wednesday, there are 689 containment zones in the city, and 2,908 sealed buildings. There are 16,719 high-risk contacts quarantined in Covid care centres-1.About 75% of the total 18,142 beds available for Covid-19 patients are occupied as of May 25. These beds include oxygen beds, beds in intensive care units, ventilator beds, dedicated Covid hospital beds, dedicated Covid health centre beds, and beds in Covid care centres-2, which are for mildly symptomatic and asymptomatic patients. Of the total 4,116 oxygen beds, 63% are occupied. Of the 644 beds in ICUs, 96% are occupied and 66% of the 359 ventilator beds are occupied.BMC is also setting up an online portal that will be accessible to doctors who want to check the availability of dialysis beds in the city for confirmed and suspected Covid-19 patients. Comorbidity is one of the main factors contributing to mortality in Covid-19 patients and patients who need dialysis are among the most vulnerable. At present, there are 92 dialysis beds for such patients, according to BMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/icmr-puts-mumbai-on-list-of-cities-to-undergo-blood-surveillance-to-check-exposure-to-virus/story-SXRN7EhXsyCOALOPkEbPmL.html
27-05-2020||Lucknow||Buried alive, new born rescued by locals in UP||A new born baby boy who was buried alive by unknown people, was rescued by locals and admitted to community health center (CHC) Jogia in Sonar village of Sidhdhartha Nagar district on Monday, police said.SHO Jogia police station Anjani Kumar said, “The baby was first rushed to CHC then to district hospital. He is doing well now. A case under section 137 (abandonment of child under 12 years by parents or whosoever who cares) of IPC has been lodged against unidentified persons in this connection.”Locals said there were rumors that the baby was an illegitimate child so to avoid bad name his parents might have attempted to kill him by burying him alive. The baby is one day old and his umbilical cord was also not properly detached, said police.As per report, on Monday, one Manoj, a resident of the village, was leveling soil by tractor when he saw a hand of the baby in the mound of soil. He raised alarm then local rushed to the site and dug out the baby who was still alive but unconscious.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/buried-alive-new-born-rescued-by-locals-in-up/story-KEekf7ZwOzXKpqqbLIYH8M.html
27-05-2020||Mumbai||BMC hikes stipend of 300 PG doctors from ₹14K to ₹54K||After delaying the decision for months, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has increased the stipend of almost 300 post-graduation doctors from College of Physicians and Surgeons (CPS), who are on Covid-19 duty at the civic hospitals, from Rs 14,000 to Rs 54,000. For over two months, these resident doctors from CPS have been stationed at the Covid-19 ward in Dr RN Cooper Municipal General Hospital in Vile Parle. Though they have been managing the hospital wards with medical students from civic-run hospitals and working similar hours, CPS students were paid much lower than the BMC post-graduate students. “We are getting Rs 14,000 whereas, the BMC doctors get Rs 54,000 for doing the same amount of work. We are risking our lives to provide treatment to Covid-19 patients. So, why this discrimination?” said a post-graduation student from Cooper Association of Resident Doctors (CARD). After several complaints, the civic body on Wednesday agreed and promised to pay Rs 54,000 to the students. Amay Ghole, chairman of public health committee, BMC, said, “We have raised the stipend amount to Rs 54,000. All the 300 doctors from CPS will get the raised amount from next month.”Month-old cured of Covid-19A month-old child was cured of Covid-19 at the Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital, also known as Sion Hospital, and returned home on Wednesday. As per the information received from the hospital, on May 19, the infant was rushed to the hospital as he had fever and stiffness in the body. A swab test confirmed the presence of Sars-Cov-2-- the virus that causes Covid-19. “Within five days, the child turned negative for the virus. Other than his parents, the medical staffers also cheered for him,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of the hospital. Presently, there are 455 Covid patients at the hospital. The hospital has successfully conducted over 150 deliveries of Covid-infected mothers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-hikes-stipend-of-300-pg-doctors-from-14k-to-54k/story-6p8VkCuFv6I31P0aAHyWmM.html
27-05-2020||City||Covid set to transform our lifestyle ‘for a long time’||Let’s do a fast forward. The watchman of your favourite eatery that finally opened after months greets you as you alight from your car. But he greets you from a distance and as you come close he subjects you to a rather cold thermal scan!“Welcome sir, we have intimation of your pre-booked slot,” he tells you from behind his face mask, after dutifully spraying the sanitiser on your hands and clothes.In no time, your meal is served with masked and gloved waiters hovering around.On the table, a bottle of sanitiser is a reminder of the mask-sanitiser-social distancing drill that is going to be part of our lives at least till the coronavirus vaccine is ready.And, yes, no leisurely binging, for sometime at least. Because, you could well be trespassing on someone else’s slot. In any case, the waiter will remind you with, “Sir, 10 minutes left!” type reminder about the arrival of new slot-takers.Right! So you had ordered some packing too. On your way out, you could collect the parcel which has been passed through a UV (ultra violet) ray chamber to ensure cleanliness!Seems far-fetched? Well, ask Nittin (he goes by one name), founder and chef Pack-N-Chew restaurant who is getting ready for just such a change.“It’s clear that post lockdown phase, we are all in for a major change in the way we approach things,” Nittin said, adding the dining out model was set to undergo a metamorphosis.Many like Nittin are also diversifying into food retail business ostensibly to make up for revenue hit which almost all food businesses are preparing for. ICONIC EATERIES WAIT FOR GOVT NODAt least one prominent five star is looking to revive its mobile food truck which it had used during launch, say sources in the hotel industry. Some others are planning to modify existing spaces to introduce pre-sanitisation areas and ensure social distancing.Not all are poised to change, though. Some, like two prominent bar-restarurants, fearing major dip in revenue, are looking to shut shop.And owner of many iconic eateries, like Mohd Usman of Tundey Kebabs, say they are staring at an uncertain future. Rahim’s Kulche Naharis and Mubin’s Pasanda kebabs are just as uncertain because the owners of these usually crammed eateries too are looking for directions from the government to resume business.“We don’t really have a clue so far on how to open up. As of now, we aren’t getting supplies and our workers too have left for their homes. Let’s see what is in store,” said Mohd Usman.WHAT ABOUT KHOMCHE WALLA!The food business in Lucknow is huge with nearly 5,000 plus small and big listed restaurants.This is not to add hundreds of ‘khomche wallas’, the roadside vendors, the local chaat walas who made a living by selling cheaply priced stuff popular among the masses. “It’s not clear if we will be able to do business as before because in our stalls, social distancing isn’t possible. Even if we were to somehow ensure that, then sanitisation issue would come up. And there would be ambiguity on whether or not we can serve anyone turning up with cold,” said Rajat Kumar, a chaat-seller in Chinhat.FSSAI GUIDELINESThe Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) has already issued a detailed safety and hygiene guidelines for food businesses during Covid-19 pandemic.These guidelines, among other things, state buffet system should be disallowed. “These services would resume only under directions from concerned authorities,” reads one of the points in the elaborate guideline.“We aren’t yet sure how we are going to operate. We are waiting for the government to clear the air,” a restaurant owner with a popular buffet service said. LIFE IN FOR A MAJOR SPIN Yes! Life is in for a major spin.The laidback ‘Lakhnawi’ who would engage in friendly banter over smoke rings and endless tea from the neighbourhood chai walla, and those kitty party women who would chatter away their afternoons in restaurants, those carefree gorging on golgappas and those ‘mehfils’ (meetings) where the poetic minded would share poetry sipping the heady brew ... All of it is going to change. Many have already taken to virtual platforms to share poetry, craft and cuisine.The UP government has in any case banned big meetings till June 30 and it’s increasingly certain that social distancing would be here to stay for a while.So even a regular walk to your neighbour medical store will change,as ‘over the counter’ sale of regular drugs for fever, cold and cough would be subjected to scrutiny and details. In fact everything, from gyms to morning walks at favourite parks, are on hold. THE DOCTORS Sitting alone in his chamber at the King George’s Medical University (KGMU) Dr Anand Mishra, the head of the department of endocrinology, is engaged in preparing for post corona lockdown phase.Many of his breast cancer patients whom he had operated upon come to him for regular check-up. However, he hadn’t been able to do that out of their fear of contracting coronavirus infection on travelling down to KGMU.That’s when he thought of connecting with them virtually.The first virtual meeting of his breast cancer survivor support group was a hit with patients connecting with him from all over the state. “The practice run was successful. Nearly 50 of my patients, from various parts of the state connected with me to share their developments and concerns. My breast cancer support group also helps in allaying fears of those who may have been freshly diagnosed and fear the worst. So this support group also mentors new patients,” Dr Mishra said.“Now, hat I tried and it worked, my patients can connect with me virtually. Hence now onwards, I plan to put in place a regular system of virtual screening. This would continue post lockdown for coronavirus isn’t going away anytime soon,” he said.At the other end of the state capital, Dr Rajat Dikshit, a private medical practitioner with a large patient base, is readying to resume his private clinic in Kasaibada locality near Latouche Road.He has ordered a face-shield, apron and head cover for himself. He would get his private clinic sanitised daily with sodium hypochlorite and all patients reporting symptoms of high fever, cold and cough would be referred to fever clinic.“All patients walking in to my clinic would also have to fill up a form giving their basic details, their travel history, if they are symptomatic among other things. There are many patients who aren’t getting advice and treatment and for these patients I have decided to resume clinic but yes, we all have to undertake precautions,” he said.At Health City, Dr Vaibhav Khanna and his team of doctors have already put in place a regular drill, mandatory screening of all patients for Covid-19 who walk in at the private nursing home.YOGIC POSES Sudhir Sharma, who runs the city’s oldest Yoga centre opposite the Hanuman Setu, is busy devising ways to regulate the flow of yoga-learners at his centre.“We will have all our yogic drills wearing masks. The people will have to come at a pre-booked time slot and maintain social distancing. In pranayaam, the key yogic breathing exercises, masks would have to be done away with. But that we would have in a separate room, with participants sitting opposite each other for the purpose,” he says, adding ‘home delivery’ of yoga would also be promoted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-set-to-transform-our-lifestyle-for-a-long-time/story-L0ME88S7rNAE2Fd5Ux2cCI.html
27-05-2020||Mumbai||13 personnel of CISF unit guarding Mazagon Dock test positive for Covid-19||Thirteen personnel of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF)unit posted at Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Ltd (MDL) have tested positive for the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19.“They had come in contact with a person who had tested positive. All the personnel in the unit were tested which revealed that 13 were positive. There is a laid down procedure such as tracing the contacts, and they have been quarantined. All the measures for treatment have been initiated,” said CISF spokesperson assistant inspector general Hemendra Singh. “We are ensuring that there is no laxity and strict guidelines are been followed when it comes to social distancing, sanitising and wearing masks. Our headquarters has made it clear that services should not be affected,” he added.MDL is one of the leading shipbuilding yards in the country, producing warships for the Navy and offshore structures for the Bombay High offshore oilfield. It has built vessels including warships, advanced destroyers, missile boats, and submarines.A number of CISF personnel stationed across the city have become infected with the coronavirus. Twelve personnel who were posted at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) were among the first frontline staff in the country to test positive.“During the initial outbreak at the Mumbai airport, we were able to contain the spread after initiating measures such as testing the entire camp and isolating contacts,” said Singh. CISF is currently providing security cover to nuclear installations, space establishments, airports, seaports, power plants, sensitive government buildings, and heritage monuments among others. In Mumbai, CISF is guarding areas like CSMIA, Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT), Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) and Rashtriya Chemicals and Fertilisers (RCF).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/13-personnel-of-cisf-unit-guarding-mazagon-dock-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-MFsDjJNUc5wepHCqz2UFKK.html
27-05-2020||Mumbai||Another cop succumbs to Covid-19, death toll in Mumbai Police at 13||A 55-year-old police constable posted at Dadar police station, who tested positive for Covid-19, died on Wednesday, bringing the death toll in Mumbai Police to 13.The constable was on patrolling duty in Worli-Koliwada area, one of the affected areas and a containment zone.Divakar Shelke, senior inspector at Dadar police station, confirmed the death of the constable. The constable, a resident of Kisan Nagar in Thane, developed symptoms and took a Covid-19 test on May 20. The report on May 22 confirmed that he contracted the virus and was admitted to the quarantine facility at Police Training School, Marol in Andheri (East). “He was not feeling comfortable at Marol, so he was then shifted to NSCI club in Worli on May 23. On May 24, he started having breathing issues and was shifted to BYL Nair Hospital,” said a police officer. “On May 26, we received a call from the hospital stating his condition was deteriorating. A request was sent to the assistant municipal commissioner of G-south ward of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and doctors of Nair hospital, after which he was shifted to an intensive care unit (ICU) in the hospital. But he succumbed to the virus on Wednesday morning,” said a police officer.30 FIRs against 82 people for lockdown violations The Mumbai Police on Tuesday registered 30 first information reports (FIRs) against 82 people for lockdown violations and arrested 67. A maximum of 22 FIRs were for gathering in public, five for not wearing masks and remaining few against shops for operating despite being non-essential services and using vehicles in violation of lockdown rules. A majority of 17 cases were in the west and central region of the city. 22 deaths in Maharashtra Police so far About 22 police personnel have died due to Covid-19 in the state police force. While 13 of them are from Mumbai Police, three are from Nashik rural, two from Pune and one each from Solapur city, Solapur rural, Thane and Mumbai ATS. Covid cases in state police nears 2,000-mark The total cases of Covid-19 in state police were 1,964 till Wednesday morning. Out of 1,964, 849 have recovered while 1,095 personnel are still under treatment. A maximum of 1,741 were constables while remaining 223 were police officers. 6.5 lakh migrants sent back, 2 lakh on waiting list The Mumbai Police till Wednesday has sent back 6.5 lakh stranded people, mostly migrants, to their home states. Another 2 lakh are still on the waiting list. Pranaya Ashok, DCP (operations) and spokesperson for Mumbai Police confirmed the development. Three held for murderThe Aarey police on Wednesday based on CCTV surveillance tracked down and arrested three accused Kailash Waghat, 20, Vijay Waghat,22 and Vinesh Jethe, 25, and caught a 17-year-old minor for allegedly murdering an unidentified 40-year-old man at Aarey colony unit 13 in Goregaon (East) on May 25. The four accused felt that the unknown man abused them while passing by after which they assaulted him. The minor has been sent to Dongri observation home. Probe is on to identify the deceased. (With inputs from Jayprakash S Naidu, Manish K Pathak)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/another-cop-succumbs-to-covid-19-death-toll-in-mumbai-police-at-13/story-so35MwR9CcjqpOoRjFKsiM.html
27-05-2020||Mumbai||HT Salutes: BEST employee defeats Covid-19, resumes duty 4 days before retirement||With just a few days left for his retirement, Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) undertaking employee Ramchandra Shinde who was tested positive of Covid-19 on May 8, returned to work after recovering from the disease. After testing positive, he was shifted to a hotel in Kurla from his residence in Ghatkopar’s Asalpha. He was discharged two weeks later on May 22 when his superiors told him to take another 14 days rest. But Shinde did not want to do that.Shinde, who is to retire on May 31, wanted to spend his last few days at work in the city’s iconic red bus where he worked for 31 years. “I requested my superiors to let me resume on duty. I would have been really disappointed if I did not get a chance to retire while I was on duty,” said Shinde, who will be resuming work on Thursday at 5.30 am at the Marol depot, where he was posted for the last three decades. He was working at the depot till May 5 before testing positive.While he has worked as a conductor for the most part of his service, he was promoted as a ticket-checker in 2013. Shinde developed a fever on May 7. He was advised to get tested the next day when he and his wife, 54-year-old Heena Shinde also tested positive. “I was really scared. My wife was admitted to the hospital and I was quarantined in a hotel,” Shinde said. Till date, more than 160 BEST employees have been tested positive, of which more than 100 have recovered, however, nine employees have died. Those who retire from the BEST service are usually felicitated at the depot on the last day but Shinde said he would miss out on that owing to the lockdown. Rajendra Madne, additional general manager, BEST said, “Be it terror attacks, floods or a pandemic, BEST has employees like Shinde who are completely dedicated to their job. He has four days left to retire but he still wants to work for those four days. The younger generation must learn from people like him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ht-salutes-best-employee-defeats-covid-19-resumes-duty-4-days-before-retirement/story-EuuE9NCgngxOLykz2TzznJ.html
27-05-2020||Lucknow||CEPC to organise fairs to attract domestic market||Carpet Export Promotion Council (CEPC) president Siddhanath Singh that CEPC would seek business opportunities in domestic market to save the livelihood of the weavers and artisans in view of Covid-19 pandemic.Singh said that it would take at least 6-9 months to re-start the export as major carpet buyers like USA and Europe suffered badly due to the pandemic and so it was important to attract domestic market. He said that he had held discussions with union commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal on May 26 in this connection.The Minister said that as part of its efforts to explore business in domestic market, the CEPC was planning to organise carpet fairs in all four metros—Delhi, Mumubai, Chennai and Kolkata— and major cities like Chandigarh, Shimla, Amritsar, Puna, Ranchi among others. In the fairs, hand woven carpets of all ranges would be made available, he informed and added that a meeting would be held in June for discussing date and schedule of the series of carpet fairs. If all remained well, the first carpet fair would be held in mid or later part of September, he stated.Singh said that he had demanded imposition of 200 percent import duty on machine made carpets, being imported from Belgium, Turkey and China. He has also written to union minister of commerce and industry in this regard.Singh said that virtual fairs were also on the cards for the international buyers and made an appeal to domestic carpet buyers to buy handmade carpets.Around 4 lakh weavers are involved in carpet weaving in Bhadohi, Mirzapur and their adjoining areas in eastern UP. On an average, a weaver earns around Rs 300 daily if he works for seven to eight hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/cepc-to-organise-fairs-to-attract-domestic-market/story-6a7FIj5NgaaqqWhasjI8AL.html
27-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government plans to reduce premiums, speed up approval for realty projects||To provide respite to the real estate sector which is currently taking a beating due to the Covid-19 lockdown, the state government has announced plans to reduce the tax and premiums on realty projects as well as speed up approval processes.State housing minister Jitendra Awhad on Tuesday said the state will take all steps to help the real estate sector. “The premiums will be reduced but how much will be decided later,” said Awhad, adding that the approval process needs to be expedited. “We are planning a system where all approvals are granted within one month. Even if there are some issues, provisional permission will be granted so that the work begins,” he added.Builders had previously complained that the premiums charged by the local bodies, especially the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), are too high and contribute to an increase in the final price of the apartment, which is ultimately borne by the homebuyer. Besides, it takes years to get approvals and these delays result in an exponential increase in the project cost. Successive governments have tried various methods to curtail the approval processing time but were unable to succeed much.Builders and the housing activists have welcomed this latest move by the Maharashtra government.Harish Jain, vice-president, BrihanMumbai Developers Association (BDA) said such measures are needed to lift the real estate sector which is currently in bad shape. “Such steps will help to kick-start the projects and also spur housing demand,” said Jain.Housing activist Ramesh Prabhu, however, said that mere announcements will not be enough. “We need actual implementation and not mere slogans. The officials simply delay the process on flimsy grounds. Unless [decisive] steps are taken, the realty sector cannot be revived,” said Prabhu.The real estate sector has been in a slowdown since the last few years. Builders raised their prices, forcing buyers to postpone purchase plans. Now, the Covid-19 lockdown has complicated matters further.BOXA survey conducted by the Maharashtra Chambers of Housing Industry (MCHI-CREDAI) noted that 60% of builders expect business to get back to normal within nine to 12 months after the Covid-19 lockdown is lifted and 83% of respondents said they will continue with their real estate business. Around 45% said they are ready to acquire properties if the pricing is attractive.The survey was based on responses of 500 builders who have projects in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-plans-to-reduce-premiums-speed-up-approval-for-realty-projects/story-8CA3HsIJpxs3yjZbMKIIUI.html
27-05-2020||Mumbai||Can Pawar-Thackeray tide over this crisis too?||Last year, NCP chief Sharad Pawar and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray pulled off a coup when they put together an unexpected coalition of three parties and snatched power from the BJP after 2019 Assembly elections. They also managed to run the government smoothly for the past six months. Now, as Maharashtra is struggling to handle the pandemic, the duo faces the challenge of not only controlling the health crisis, but also bringing the state’s economy back on track. And if that is not enough, the current developments have led to speculation over political uncertainty in the state. The two leaders also have some differences over the issue of lifting the lockdown, especially in Mumbai, the financial capital of India.Pawar, who was the architect of the coalition, managed to convince the Congress leadership to support a Shiv Sena government. He also ensured that the coalition is led by Uddhav Thackeray, as the cabinet comprised several political heavyweights. Thackeray who never held any public office handled the job of chief minister without much trouble for six months and managed to handle the diverse coalition. The Covid-19 epidemic, however, has led to a health and economic crisis in the state and has become a tough challenge not just for him.Maharashtra has the highest nunber of Covid-19 cases in the country. Till Wednesday, the Covid-19 case count was 56,948 with 1,897 deaths. Mumbai is the most affected city with 34,018 cases and 1,097 deaths.State health officials say they are expecting the cases to increase further in June. The state may cross 1the -lakh mark next month. Preparing for this situation is a tough task for Thackeray and his government. The state does not have adequate health infrastructure if the number shoots up further.“This would have been difficult even for an experienced chief minister due to the unprecedented nature of the crisis. Thackeray had never handled any public office before he became the chief minister. As such, Pawar has been guiding him,” said a senior NCP minister who did not want to be named. “Since he took initiative to form this government, Pawar will have to step in if the crisis is affecting the state badly and it seems like he has been doing it,” said political analyst Hemant Desai.In the past few days, Pawar has met Thackeray thrice and held discussions on handling the crisis. The duo, however, has different opinions over exiting the lockdown which is in effect in the state. According to MVA ministers, Pawar is keen on reopening the city as early as possible, but Thackeray is apprehensive that there could be spike in cases if lockdown is lifted entirely in affected areas. Mumbai can’t be kept shut for a long time as it will badly affect the city and state’s economy, Pawar has apparently pointed this out. After all, Pawar knows this better than anybody else. In March 1993, following serial bomb blasts in Mumbai, there were apprehensions that life in the city would not normalise soon. However, Pawar who was then the chief minister of the state, ensured the share market and other financial institutions were reopened within 2-3 days.Thackeray’s overdependence on bureaucracy, too, is not going down well with the alliance partners. “Thackeray will have to now take a call whether to continue with the lockdown in June or whether to lift the restrictions. He is reluctant, but he will start reopening cities in a staggered manner,” said a Congress minister.However, the developments in the past few days, which saw Pawar meeting Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari (the two reportedly spoke about the state’s response to Covid-19 crisis) and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, making it clear that his party is not a decision-maker in the MVA government has raised doubts over future of the government.“Pawar meeting Governor Koshyari was a courtesy call. It was also to reduce the tension between the state and Central governments. You can’t handle the ongoing crisis without help from the Centre,” said a senior Shiv Sena leader. Desai does not see any chances of trouble between Pawar and Thackeray and also between the MVA partners. “To end speculations over the government’s future, they put up a united front by holding a meeting of three parties. Their priority will be to handle the crisis and not switch political sides. Nobody knows this better than Pawar,”said Desai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/can-pawar-thackeray-tide-over-this-crisis-too/story-2bgYXEcQBMFEo8FBtSNrAL.html
27-05-2020||Mumbai||MVA: Devendra Fadnavis’s ₹28,000-cr aid figure imaginary||Putting up a united front, ministers of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government on Wednesday punctured holes into the claims made by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, terming the ₹28,000-crore Central aid mentioned by him an “imaginary figure”.Leader of Opposition Fadnavis had on Tuesday attacked the Uddhav Thackeray-led government over claims that the Centre was biased against Maharashtra and had not given it enough assistance to tackle the pandemic.Ministers from the three parties – Shiv Sena, Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) – addressed a joint conference to put to rest speculation of disagreements and lack of coordination in the ruling coalition.On Wednesday morning, it was announced that state transport minister Anil Parab would address a press conference. However, Patil and Thorat joined the conference after a meeting of MVA ministers at Varsha bungalow. Patil clarified, “We [Thorat and Patil] were out of Mumbai, so our names were not announced till we were available.” Thorat said, “We are working together to combat the crisis today under the leadership of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. Everybody is working in coordination and have taken measures for patients, migrants, industries etc.”Shiv Sena’s Parab rebutted each point raised by Fadnavis and said that he had misled people by saying that the Centre is giving full support to the Maharashtra government. The minister said the state has only got ₹6,649 crore through various schemes from the Centre and not ₹28,000 crore as claimed by the former CM.Parab said Maharashtra has not got wheat under the PM Gram Kalyan Yojana. “The decision to provide wheat, dal and rice was taken for the entire country, not just for Maharashtra. Fadnavis said that wheat worth ₹1,750 crore has been given to Maharashtra, but the state has not received wheat at all.”He lashed out at Union railway minister Piyush Goyal saying the ministry sent trains at once to paint a picture that Maharashtra is unable to send back migrants. He added that the state spent money on all Shramik trains through the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. “Goyal alleges the trains are sent back empty, but the railways has changed the train schedule to create confusion and just gave us a one-hour notice before the departure. Everything was going well, but a confusing situation is being created to defame the state government,” Parab said. Patil said the Centre had not provided enough personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, N95 masks and gloves to the state. He also claimed the Centre had first claimed it would pay for it, but the state has spent from its funds. “We asked for 49 lakh masks, but received around 13 lakh; we asked for 17 lakh PPE kits, but till May 21, we got zero. We asked for 25 lakh gloves, but we received only 28,000. We got zero ventilators. We are not criticising the Centre, but Fadnavis should support the government, not criticise or destabilise it. The BJP is nowhere to be seen in the work we are doing and the state will remember it.”Fadnavis responded to the press conference, in a live video, calling it “incomplete” information. “The food grain at ₹2 and ₹3 are part of the Central scheme, so how can they claim they have not got wheat. They claim that they have not govt PPE kits, but the Centre has a dashboard for it. As on May 26, 9.88 lakh PPE kits and 16 lakh N95 masks have been given. They said they are purchasing it, but they forgot to add that the Centre has given ₹486 crore for it,” he shot back.Patil took a “strong objection” to Fadnavis’s statement that the economy would be hit as migrants have left for their home states. “He has underestimated the skill of people of Maharashtra. Does it also mean that he has no trust in PM Modi’s Skill India programme,” he said. In response, Fadnavis said that he was talking about skilled jobs and not unskilled labourers. “Jobs like diamond-cutting cannot be learnt in one day by any worker from any state,” he said.Patil said the government has been successful in keeping the numbers lower than what the Central team had projected. He said that the situation in Maharashtra is way better than in Gujarat, which had a much higher death rate. Fadnavis slammed the government over this. “The state has over 30% of the total cases, 40% of the total deaths, but the government is patting its own back instead of telling people what they would do to provide more hospital beds,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mva-devendra-fadnavis-s-28-000-cr-aid-figure-imaginary/story-m1lqVHZZOV1tkoD1SYVyXL.html
27-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Engineering College students stuck in Germany to be evacuated on Friday||As many as 14 students of the Panjab Engineering College (PEC) who were interning in Germany and got stuck there due to international flights being suspended amid the Covid-19 pandemic, will be brought back to India in an Air India flight on Friday.PEC director Dheeraj Sanghi said, “Some students had gone there to complete their sixth semester. They contacted me and said they want to come back fearing the present global scenario.”“Earlier, only students coming back to Chandigarh were being accepted into the flight as the evacuation is being done location-wise. After that, we wrote to the Indian Embassy and UT administration and asked if students can fill in PEC’s hostels as their addresses. Then, the students were accepted for evacuation,” Sanghi said.Father of 20-year-old Gurpreet Singh, Bhag Singh Kairon, said his son went to KIT Germany in January to complete his sixth semester of industrial training.“However, within two months, the situation across the globe deteriorated amid the Covid-19 pandemic and international flights were suspended,” he said.“The internship was supposed to end in July. However, we decided to ask our son to come back as soon as international flights resume. The university also co-operated and completed their training by May 25. On Wednesday, they were given all documentary proof and certification,” Kairon said.The students will board the Air India flight from Germany to India on Friday. The flight will land in Delhi following which they will be given an option to quarantine in locations specified by the UT administration.Germany is one of the worst-hit countries by the pandemic with over 1.8 lakh cases reported so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-engineering-college-students-stuck-in-germany-to-be-evacuated-on-friday/story-WfWcYvnEjwBjxbbgI3V8RP.html
27-05-2020||Mumbai||HC lets minor rape survivor terminate her 23-week foetus||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday allowed a 13-year-old rape survivor to terminate her 23-week pregnancy, which resulted from the attack by her father.A division bench of justice Nitin Jamdar and justice NR Borkar allowed the petition filed by the mother of the minor, primarily in view of the report of the medical board at Sir JJ Group of Hospitals.The board examined the girl on May 23, according to earlier orders of the court, and submitted its report recommending medical termination of the minor’s unwanted pregnancy.“Continuation of pregnancy in the minor may lead to pregnancy-related complications like anaemia, pregnancy-induced hypertension as well as and complications during labour,” said the medical board in its report. “It will also have a psychological impact on the pregnant minor with an uncertain future. Hence it is advisable to terminate the pregnancy at any convenient hospital of her choice.”In view of the opinion of the medical board, the bench said it would be necessary to permit the medical termination of pregnancy. The court thus allowed the minor to terminate her unwanted pregnancy at Sir JJ Group of Hospitals.The court has also directed the state-run hospital to preserve the blood and tissue samples of the foetus to carry out necessary medical tests, including DNA fingerprinting, to be used in the rape case. The investigating officer of the case has been directed to ensure that the samples are forwarded to the forensic science laboratory for analysis and preserved for trial.According to the petition filed by the minor’s mother, the teenager was sexually abused by her father while she was residing with her aunt at Thane, resulting in her pregnancy. On May 17, a first information report (FIR) was registered with Thane Nagar police station. Two days later, the minor underwent a sonography which revealed that she was 22-weeks pregnant.The survivor’s mother filed the petition seeking the high court’s permission for termination of the unwanted pregnancy, as under the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971, medical termination of pregnancy is not allowed beyond 20 weeks gestational period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-lets-minor-rape-survivor-terminate-her-23-week-foetus/story-uB50G5iKCt0LjH1Et2Cw4O.html
27-05-2020||Mumbai||Rahul Gandhi, Uddhav Thackeray speak amid ‘rift’ buzz||Wednesday saw hectic political activity to end the speculation over stability of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government.A day after his comment that the “Congress was only supporting the government and was not a key decision-maker in the ruling coalition”, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi spoke with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray over the phone and expressed solidarity with the government. Thackeray, too, assured him the Congress was an equally important coalition partner. Soon after, key ministers from the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi – Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party and Congress – held a joint marathon meeting at the chief minister’s official bungalow, Varsha.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar chaired the meeting, which was attended by senior ministers Jayant Patil, Subhash Desai, Balasaheb Thorat, Anil Parab, Varsha Gaikwad and Aslam Shaikh. CM Thackeray did not attend the meeting. Later, the three parties put up a united front with revenue minister and state Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat, water resources minister and state NCP chief Jayant Patil and parliamentary affairs minister Anil Parab (Shiv Sena) addressing a press conference to reply to the allegations made by Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday.Gandhi had, in a press conference on Tuesday, compared the party’s governments in Punjab, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh to Maharashtra and said there was a difference between running a government and supporting it. It had set the rumour mills abuzz and also upset the other ruling partners, pushing Shiv Sena and Congress leaders into damage-control mode.“Sena MP Sanjay Raut spoke to Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala, after which a call was arranged between Gandhi and Sena minister and CM’s son Aaditya Thackeray on Tuesday evening. This was followed by the call between Thackeray and Gandhi on Wednesday morning,” a senior Congress leader said. According to MVA insiders, Gandhi told Thackeray that his government was doing a good job to combat the pandemic, despite the difficulties the state was facing. “The air was cleared over the speculation after Gandhiji’s statement in the press conference. The Congress leader clarified his statement was blown out of proportion,” a Shiv Sena leader said. Gandhi also explained his stance, maintaining how he has been categorically stating how important Maharashtra is and it should be given more importance in the fight against Covid-19. In the MVA meeting which lasted for three hours, the leaders discussed various issues, including the strategy for gradual lifting of the lockdown and preparations to combat Covid-19 in Mumbai. “Chief secretary Ajoy Mehta and other officers made a presentation on the current status of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai and other parts. We discussed the strategy for gradual relaxation of lockdown in red zones after May 31 and narrowing down the size of containment zones further. A few more commercial activities are likely to be allowed in cities like Mumbai from next week,” said Shaikh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rahul-gandhi-uddhav-thackeray-speak-amid-rift-buzz/story-iZkyyHGHKpyIy7asN8y2GK.html
27-05-2020||City||Senior Delhi police officer tests Covid positive||New Delhi: The deputy commissioner of police (north district) tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, prompting the top brass to initiate contact-tracing procedures and screening of staff members at her office near Vidhan Sabha.The DCP is in home quarantine and the additional DCP has taken charge in her absence, said joint commissioner of police (central) Suvashish Chaudhary.More than 500 personnel tested positive in the city police. In the last few days, 20 to 30 personnel were tested infected with the virus every day. Over 160 of the infected personnel have recovered and discharged from various hospitals and quarantine facilities. One constable from northwest district died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/senior-delhi-police-officer-tests-covid-positive/story-HSKlBmdaLit5PaPy3aeVJI.html
27-05-2020||Mumbai||Locust swarm splits into two; fourth district in state gets hit||The locust swarm that entered Maharashtra earlier this week made its way to Bhandara on Wednesday, making it the fourth district to be affected.After pesticide was sprayed at Katol tehsil in Nagpur between Monday night and Tuesday morning, the swarm split into two groups; one moving towards Parseoni in Nagpur while the other entered Bhandara, said officials.At 10pm Wednesday, officials from the agricultural department were able to trace the movement of the locust swarm to Temani village, Tumsar taluka in Bhandara. “The swarm travelled over 100km on Wednesday from Andhalgaon, Mohadi taluka back into Ramtek tehsil in Nagpur, and again into Tumsar Bhandara. They have settled at orchards surrounding Temani where we will carry out overnight insecticide spraying drive to kill majority of the population,” said Ravindra Bhosale, divisional joint director agriculture.“The original distribution of the main 10-km-long and 2-km-wide swarm has reduced. We are facing trouble estimating exact numbers or current length of the swarms without satellite data since they move very fast,” said Bhosale.The state agriculture department issued a ‘locust warning alert’ for all 11 districts in Vidarbha and four districts in north Maharashtra — Nandurbar, Dhule, Nashik and Jalgaon — to keep a lookout for locusts near farmlands, take preventive measures, and inform state authorities, said officials. A similar advisory was issued by the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) agromet division for Vidarbha. “Large scale damage to fruit orchards is being expected across affected districts, and farmers need to take care,” said an IMD official.The Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) estimates the swarms can be as many as 40 to 80 million. However, the Locust Warning Organisation (LWO) said the escaping population that entered Maharashtra would not be more than 5 million.Along with five other states, Maharashtra is witnessing a surge of rapidly reproducing crop munching pests that can fly up to 150km a day and has the potential to impact food production. The swarm has invaded farmlands and fruit orchards across two talukas in Amravati, one in Wardha, and four in Nagpur till Wednesday morning. “By afternoon, we were informed that the swarm had entered Bhandara district near Andhalgaon in Mohadi taluka,” said Bhosale, who is in-charge of six Vidarbha districts. Containment efforts with the help from fire department were carried out at Parseoni on Tuesday night, he added.So far, control operations have been carried out across 85 hectares (ha) — 50 ha in Nagpur and 35 ha in Amravati. “As the swarm settles atop trees at night, we are using pesticide solution of 2.4 millilitres of Chlorpyrifos (pesticide) per litre of water or 1,200 ml of the pesticide in 500 litres of water to be sprayed across one hectare area,” said Subhash Nagare, divisional joint director agriculture and in-charge of remaining five Vidarbha districts.Meanwhile, agricultural department has asked orange and mango orchard owners in Vidarbha to use noise and smoke to drive away the pests. “Farmers have been banging steel utensils within their orchards, forcing the short horned grasshoppers to rush to adjoining fields. Other measures include lighting small fires emanating voluminous smoke and spraying neem-based pesticides,” said Nagare.Camera traps at Powai to track leopard movementThe Mumbai forest range and wildlife NGOs have set up camera traps to check the presence of suspected leopard movement at an apartment complex in Raheja Vihar in Powai. While residents said they spotted a leopard at the society, the forest department said there was no proof of the animal’s presence. “Leopard movement has not been observed in the past in this area. Along with conducting an awareness drive to ensure residents feel safe, the camera trap images will give us an exact idea,” said Jitendra Ramgaonkar, deputy conservator of forest, Thane.Two weather systems in Arabian Sea, no warnings for Mumbai as of now: IMD The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Wednesday clarified that two weather systems in the Arabian Sea would not be affecting Mumbai as of now. An existing cyclonic circulation over south west Arabian Sea is likely to concentrate into a depression in the same region. However, a second system formation is expected around May 30 towards south east Arabian Sea which is likely to be a low pressure area. However, no warnings have been issued by IMD yet as officials said the development of the system needs to be observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/locust-swarm-splits-into-two-fourth-district-in-state-gets-hit/story-SR4AW8MjlrBjMHe1IKOMiI.html
27-05-2020||Mumbai||45-year-old hospital employee found dead in lift||A 45-year-old woman, an employee at the government-run St George Hospital was found dead inside a hospital lift on Wednesday morning. She was on a Covid duty at the hospital.Her body was found inside a lift stationed on the second floor of the hospital. She was lying in a pool of blood with head fractures.Sources from the hospital alleged that she could have died due to an impact on her head when the lift malfunctioned. But the hospital has refuted the allegations. Police are investigating the death.The woman was working with the hospital since 2015. Dr Akash Khobragade, superintendent of the hospital said, “It is believed that her hair got stuck into the door when the lift started to move to the second floor, from the ground floor. But police is investigating and we have to wait until they submit their report.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/45-year-old-hospital-employee-found-dead-in-lift/story-0sP1MwFSlna3BPf5u5sObL.html
27-05-2020||Mumbai||City’s Covid growth rate 6.6%, but five areas see 10% rise daily||While the growth rate of Covid-19 is 6.6% in the city on an average, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has identified five neighbourhoods — Ghatkopar, Mulund, Bhandup, Vikhroli, Goregaon and Kandivli — where the daily growth rate is 10% or more as of May 22.BMC’s weekly data shows hotspots like Dharavi, Worli, Byculla, Mazgaon, Kurla, Bandra (East) are showing a slower growth rate (4%-7%). Areas with growth rates higher than 8% are termed high-risk, BMC officials said.High-risk areas include P (North) ward (Malad) where the growth rate is 11.9%; P (South) ward (Goregaon), where the growth rate is 10.9%; R (Central) ward (Borivli) where the growth rate is 8.9%; and R (South) (Kandivli) where the growth rate is 9.4%.In the eastern suburbs, N ward (Ghatkopar) has the highest growth rate (13.7%) followed by T ward (Mulund, 11.9%). F (South) Ward in central Mumbai (Parel, Lalbaug, Sewri) has a growth rate of 8.2%.When asked about the high growth rate in Borivli and Kandivli, deputy municipal commissioner Vishwas Shankarwar said, “We have a higher growth rate than others also because our cases are fewer. Our increase is reflected faster in terms of percentage owing to the smaller number when compared to areas with more cases. However, we are adopting all measures to contain the spread, especially in slums, by rigorous contact tracing.”Some corporators have recommended sealing slums. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) corporator from Goregaon, Sandeep Patel said, “No matter how much we try, the slums will remain a challenge. I feel all the slums should be sealed, irrespective of there being cases or not.” BJP Corporator Nehal Shah said, “They [BMC] should have sealed all slums in the beginning and should have tested for cases within the area.”Explaining Ghatkopar’s high growth rate of 13.7%, assistant municipal commissioner of N ward, Ajitkumar Ambi said, “There were several people who were getting tested by private laboratories without showing any symptoms. Due to this, the [number of] cases went up. We have to do focused testing now and cannot test everyone, considering the testing guidelines expected to be followed. The growth rate has come down compared to last week. Also, in government staff quarters, people are working and stepping out. Hence the chances of getting the virus increase. It is not that cases are coming only from slums, but also [residential] societies and high-rises.”Kishore Gandhi, assistant municipal commissioner of T ward, said citizens observing lockdown guidelines had brought Covid-19’s growth rate down in his area. “Our growth rate was 11% on May 22, but it has now come down to 8%. We have contained the spread in the slums by quarantining maximum possible high-risk contacts. However, the numbers now are increasing and we are getting cases from non-slum areas, from high-rises. There is no strategy but to implement the knockdown efficiently,” said Gandhi.Public health consultant Dr Sanjay Pattiwar said, “Containing virus in densely-populated areas like slums is a very difficult task, but the only thing that will help is to institutionally quarantine a maximum number of citizens from these areas. We cannot have movement in Mumbai like earlier until a vaccine is available. However, we can classify who can go out until then.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/city-s-covid-growth-rate-6-6-but-five-areas-see-10-rise-daily/story-i5ESM0hBsxAdvxaDE1oQ8H.html
27-05-2020||Mumbai||Day 3 of flight resumption: 50 flights operate to and from Mumbai||On the third day of resumption of flights operations, Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) saw a total of 50 scheduled flights that operated on Wednesday. These scheduled flights included 25 departures and 25 arrivals.The city airport that is currently handling all the flight movements from terminal-2 (T2), connected to 14 sectors which were operated by six airlines- Air Asia India, Air India, Alliance Air, IndiGo, SpiceJet and Vistara.CSMIA handled a total of 4,993 passengers on Wednesday. These include 3,592 passengers who departed from Mumbai and 1,401 passengers who landed in Mumbai.“The highest passenger load capacity was seen on the Delhi route departing out of CSMIA. The first flight departed to Ahmedabad at 6:15 hours, while the first flight arrived at 8:20 hours from Lucknow which was operated by Air India and IndiGo respectively,” said the airport operator- Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL)Mona Gowda, a Santacruz resident who was stranded in Mysore due to lockdown said, “I had been to my native due to personal reasons and got stranded, away from my children. I must appreciate all the staff at both the airports who have ensured contactless and easy travel for passengers.”Gowda added, “My flight had its middle seats vacant until two passengers from the same family insisted on sitting beside each other. After collecting my baggage, my temperature was checked and I was stamped for 14 days home quarantine.” An airport official said that the airport saw smooth passenger flow on Wednesday. “The flight schedules are being shared with the passengers on social media by the airport authority and the airlines are sending timely updates in order to avoid chaos at T2,” said an airport official.The city airport is scheduled to operate 50 flights on Thursday with its first arrival at 8.10am. This IndiGo’ flight flew from Lucknow to Mumbai. The airport will see its first departure at 6.05am. The SpiceJet flight will fly from Mumbai to Kolkata.“All passengers who want a refund instead of credit shell, would be refunded, currently AirAsia has done specifically with EaseMyTrip.com and we have refunded money to customers in their bank account, even though we were getting money from Air Asia in our ticketing wallet. Whereas other companies are refunding the money in their own wallet to customers. Now Indigo has also started refunding in our agency wallet balance, which we can use for buying fresh tickets with Indigo, so we are refunding money to customers in their bank account. This will boost trust factor among customers to book future tickets which are generally lower priced,” said Nishant Pitti, co-founder of EaseMyTrip.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/day-3-of-flight-resumption-50-flights-operate-to-and-from-mumbai/story-4s40RAViWrMzGrr1uQFfWN.html
27-05-2020||Lucknow||UP: Mango growers fear extensive losses||As the threat of desert locusts hovers over Uttar Pradesh, anxiety has gripped the mango growers in Malihabad . Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture (CISH) officials said if locusts attacked the mango crop, which was expected to hit the market from June 1, it would be destroyed completely.The agriculture department has stationed around 16 tractor -mounted pesticide sprayers at border areas and 12 technicians and more than 5,000 locals in the area, armed with drums, plates and other noise making utensils to scare away the locusts.CP Srivastava, deputy director agriculture, Lucknow said, “Desert locust attack is expected in Kanpur. It totally depends upon the wind direction. If it heads towards Lucknow, the locusts will come along. However, we have made elaborate arrangements in Malihabad, Mall and Kakori. Also we have deputed tractor-mounted sprayers on the borders to spray pesticides and also roped in locals and villagers to scare away the locusts.”“There seems no relief for us. First the yield was much less than expectation, then came corona, followed by lockdown and now the locust attack. We don’t have any option than to watch our crops being destroyed,” said Mohammed Miyan, headman of Mujasa village in Malihabad, a part of mango belt in the state capital.The mango belt here comprises Malihabad, Mall and Kakori tehsils.. “In all three tehsils, the records of the horticulture department suggest mango is produced on 23,589 hectares of land. Malihabad is said to be the largest contributor to the total mango production (from the mango belt) with over 10,000 hectares of land under mango farming,” said Insram Ali, president of All India Mango Growers Association. “This is a very crucial time for the mango crop since it is all set to hit the market. If any such attack occurs, it will totally destroy the crop,” said Ali.It would be a double whammy for the mango growers already facing the brunt of the lockdown. “In UP, every year, the mango growers exported around 10 tonnes of Dussehri mangoes to the Gulf countries but this year due to lockdown there are no buyers from abroad,” he added.Dr Shailendra Rajan, director, ICAR-Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture (CISH) that aims to train the farmers in getting maximum yield said, “If desert locusts attack the mango belt they would surely destroy the crop set to hit the market. This is a peculiar situation never seen before.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-mango-growers-fear-extensive-losses/story-i4c78XiNF1ZyOgdVcpTKgL.html
27-05-2020||Mumbai||KDMC headquarters shut after doctor from health dept tests positive||A day after a 40-year-old doctor from health department of Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) tested positive for Covid-19, the civic body headquarters in Kalyan (West) was shut on Wednesday for sanitisation.KDMC officials said the headquarters will remain shut on Thursday too. Four doctors and 15 employees who had worked with the doctor will be quarantined and tested.On Wednesday, three deaths of Covid patients were reported in Kalyan-Dombivli, taking the death toll to 26. A total of 57 new cases were reported, taking the tally of positive cases to 882.A 57-year-old man from Govindwadi in Kalyan (West) died in RR Covid hospital in Dombivli. A 75-year-old man died in a private hospital in Chembur on May 25; and a 73-year-old man died at Kalwa hospital on Wednesday.The Kalyan Doctor’s Army, which has around 190 private doctors from Kalyan- Dombivli working with KDMC and handling Covid patients, said that only those doctors who have symptoms will be tested.“Since many doctors are also getting infected, we have set a protocol of only testing those doctors who have symptoms,” said Prashant Patil, spokesperson of Kalyan Doctor’s Army.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kdmc-headquarters-shut-after-doctor-from-health-dept-tests-positive/story-D6JUcRVH1JWSLlibLW9mBN.html
27-05-2020||Chandigarh||178 Pakistanis return home via Attari-Wagah border||As many as 178 Pakistan nationals, who had been stranded in various states of India due to lockdown, returned to their home country via the Attari-Wagah border on Wednesday. These people, including several Hindus, who had come to India to meet their relatives and on pilgrimage visas, were allowed to cross over to Pakistan after conducting their thermal screening. This is the fifth batch of citizens from the neighbouring country whose repatriation was facilitated by the ministry of external affairs (MEA) on the request of the Pakistan high commission since the lockdown came into force. Earlier, MEA had issued a list of 179 Pakistan nationals who had to return, but one of them “could not reach” at the border on Wednesday. Of these, 10 were stranded in Gujarat, 36 in Maharashtra, 40 in Madhya Pradesh, 47 in Chhattisgarh, 12 in Delhi, 2 in Punjab, 14 in Rajasthan, 2 in Uttarakhand and 16 in Utter Pradesh.A senior Land Ports Authority of India (LPAI) official posted at the ICP said: “All the people were asymptomatic and they were allowed to cross the zero line after getting their medical screening done.”On May 5, 193 Pak citizens returned home. Nearly 300 Indians are also stranded in Pakistan and the process of their repatriation has been started, it is learnt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/178-pakistanis-return-home-via-attari-wagah-border/story-60OUccItzIQ7KnUjFQnsdK.html
27-05-2020||City||Covid recovery rate in Thane improves||A total of 186 patients were discharged from Thane hospitals on Wednesday, the highest so far. The number of recoveries in Thane has crossed 1,000. As per the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), 1,077 people have recovered so far. The recovery rate in the city is now 47%. On Wednesday, 156 new Covid positive cases were also reported, taking the total number of cases to 2,450.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “Three people, including a woman and two men, died on Wednesday. All three deaths are from Wagale Estate area. They were admitted to Thane civil hospital.”A 76-year-old woman and two 60-year-old men are among those who died after being infected. A total of 72 people have died so far due to Covid. “On Wednesday, 156 new cases were reported taking the total number of cases to 2,450 so far. A total of 34 new cases were reported from Lokmanyanagar Sawarkarnagar, followed by 28 in Kalwa and 26 in Naupada-Kopri,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-recovery-rate-in-thane-improves/story-NjzehOT1d9pKLAeZJGik6K.html
27-05-2020||Delhi||Plea in SC seeks CBI probe into lapses resulting in gatherings at Markaz and Anand Vihar ISBT||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought the response of central and Delhi governments on a plea seeking CBI probe into the alleged lapses by the Delhi government and Delhi police which led to the congregation at Tablighi Jamat Markaz in Nizamuddin and migrant workers at Anand Vihar bus terminal in Delhi.The petitioner, Supriya Pandita alleged that the Delhi police failed to arrest Nizamuddin Markaz chief Maulana Saad who organised the religious event in March, resulting in a surge in the spread of coronavirus across the country.The petition also sought a probe into the gathering of migrant labourers at Anand Vihar Inter-State Bus Terminal in New Delhi on March 28. Thousands of migrant workers hailing from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar had gathered at the bus terminal situated on the eastern border of Delhi in a bid to board buses to their home states.“At the request of Mr. Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General appearing for Union of India, list the matter next week to enable him to file reply affidavit”, the top court said in its order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/plea-in-sc-seeks-cbi-probe-into-lapses-resulting-in-gatherings-at-markaz-and-anand-vihar-isbt/story-V37wwNjczMFABtP5W3ikvJ.html
27-05-2020||City||Mourners booked for attacking house of accused minor’s relative||A group of people mourning the death of a murder victim were booked by Pune police on Tuesday for throwing stones at the house of an accused minor’s relative. The police are on a lookout for 6-7 people, all suspected to be residents of Panchasheel nagar area of Yerawada, Pune. The body of the deceased, Prateek Hanumant Vannale, 27, was being brought back to his family in Panchsheel nagar when the attack happened. The minor who is accused of murder has been apprehended and is currently in the observation home. “The house was shut and there was nobody inside. It was the accused boy’s relative’s house. The minor boy, and everyone else in the case, is apprehended and is inside the observation home,” said police sub-inspector Dinesh Gurjar of Yerawada police station who is investigating the case.The booked were mourning the death of Vannale, a resident of Panchsheel nagar area of Yerawada, Pune. He was beaten to death with a group comprising of eight men and 4 minors. One of them was carrying an axe, an attack which led to his death. The incident, and Vannale’s subsequent death, happened on Monday evening.Four adults were arrested while four minors were apprehended for Vannale’s murder. One of the four minor boys was known to the deceased man and had been in a fight on Monday afternoon after their vehicles brushed against each other while passing in a lane. The minor boy then called the 7 others who helped him beat Vannale to death, according to a complaint lodged by the deceased man’s father.When asked if the two families had known each other, PSI Gurjar said, “We cannot confirm that right now but the houses are located far away. Therefore, it does not seem likely.”A complaint in the matter was lodged by police naik Ajit Magdum of Yerawada police station who was present when stones were thrown at a relative’s house of the minor in Panchsheel nagar.A case under sections 143, 147, 148, 149, 188 and 427 of Indian penal code was registered at Yerawada police station against the attackers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mourners-booked-for-attacking-house-of-accused-minor-s-relative/story-Y13SLKSs3jxcEo0fttq6jJ.html
27-05-2020||City||Pune reports 11 deaths, 106 fresh Covid-19 cases||PUNE Pune reported 11 deaths and 106 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. This takes the count of progressive positive cases of the infection from the Sars-Cov-2 virus to 5,533 and the death count in the city to 283. One death was reported from Pune rural as well.A total of 184 were cured and discharged, taking the cured count to 3,059.Currently there are 2,190 active patients in the city, of which171 are critical.Of the 11 Covid-19-positive deaths, three were reported from Sassoon hospital, including a 37-year-old male residing at Nana peth who also suffered from diabetes and hypertension; a 75-year-old female residing at Mangalwar peth, who also suffered from hypertension and lactic acidosis; and a 60-year-old female residing at Bhavani peth, who also suffered from diabetes.Three deaths were reported from the Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital, including a 55-year-old female residing at Dharma Nagar Janwadi who also suffered from chronic renal failure; a 60-year-old male from Wadrwadi Kushalkar who also suffered from diabetes; and a 66-year-old male residing at Sinhgad road, having no comorbidity.Other deaths include a 54-year-old male from Market Yard reported dead at Noble hospital, who did not have any comorbidities.A 90-year-old male from the Kashibai Navale Hospital living at Padmavati, reported dead with no comorbidities.A 38-year-old female from Inlaks and Budhrani residing at Yerawada, who also suffered from morbid obesity and a 67-year-old female, residing at Yerawada and suffering from diabetes and hypertension, also died.One death from the rural was area reported from the Kashibai Navale hospital, who also reported the death of a 70-year-old male with acute kidney injury living in Daund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-reports-11-deaths-106-fresh-covid-19-cases/story-uPYG38y4vhXNGBSM1da0iP.html
27-05-2020||City||Three booked for raping woman, threatening her||Gurugram A 28-year-old woman alleged she was raped by a neighbour, who threatened to kill her husband if she revealed the incident, last Saturday in Farrukhnagar, the police said on Wednesday. The woman said that she did not report the incident earlier as she was suffering from mental trauma and also due to lockdown restrictions. According to the police, the incident was reported on Tuesday. The woman alleged that she was inspecting her plot in Farrukhnagar, the incident took place. The suspect lives in her neighbourhood and followed her there, the police said. In the police complaint, she said that he dragged her to an abandoned area behind the plot and raped her. “After assaulting me, he threatened to kill my husband if I told anyone about the incident. I started crying. When my sister heard me yelling and rushed towards me, he fled,” she said.She said that she was under trauma for a day and was coaxed by her sister to file a complaint. “We could not go to the police station earlier due to the lockdown. After the incident, the accused man sent me inappropriate text messages and when I went to his house to confront him, his father threatened to kill me and my husband. They made inappropriate remarks and lewd gestures towards me,” she said in the FIR.A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said the police had registered a case against three people, including a friend of the suspect’s father for threatening them during the confrontation. “Efforts are on to trace the accused persons,” said the police official. A case was registered under sections 376 (rape), 354 D (stalking), 506 (criminal intimidation), 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) and 34 (acts done by several persons common intention) of the Indian Penal Code at Farrukhnagar police station, said police. In another incident, a man was arrested for allegedly attempting to molest a seven-year-old girl in Kanhai village on Tuesday. The police said the man lured the girl to his room when she was playing near her house in the village slums. However, the girl raised the alarm, following which he was apprehended by villagers and handed over to the police.He was booked under relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act at Sector 40 police station, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-booked-for-raping-woman-threatening-her/story-tXj137vXelRzF1VudzSSzI.html
27-05-2020||Gurugram||Frequent power outages in rising heat make life difficult for city residents||With the mercury touching 45.5 degrees Celsius (˚C), the demand for power has gone up in Gurumgram, but so have the complaints of power outages and volage fluctuations.The problem is made more acute with children and senior citizens being forced to stay indoors due to the lockdown.In sector 46, residents said power supply has been erratic and that the existing power distribution infrastructure was inadequate to withstand the load. “There is frequent tripping of transformers, sometimes the power cables snapped and the residents are suffering. The government should privatize the power supply system as there is no solution to these issues,” said RK Yadav, president, sector 46 residents’ welfare association.Residents of sector 7, Mollahera sector 49, DLF phase 3, sector 14, sector 15, sector 17, sector 57, sector 31, Palam Vihar and other parts of the city also complained of frequent outages.HS Nanda, president, sector-14 RWA said: “People can’t go out (due to lockdown) and daily power cuts of up to 3 to 4 hours is making life insufferable.”Power utility company Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) that supplies to 500,000 consumers in the city, said that it had received around 1200 to 1300 complaints and that the situation was more or less under control. “There is no unscheduled power cut from feeders and supply is normal. If there is any problem it happens at local level due to snapping of a cable or a fuse but our teams are continuously working to rectify the problem,” said KC Aggarwal, chief engineer, DHBVN.  Haryana Power DISCOMs (Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam and Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam) have introduced the facility of trust reading for consumers to help rectify wrong meter readings in electricity bill, consumers can get the bill fixed by providing correct meter reading online. For this facility, the consumers will have to visit the Nigam’s website www.uhbvn.org.in or www.dhbvn.org.in. All information about the use of this facility is also available on the websites of the DISCOMs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/frequent-power-outages-in-rising-heat-make-life-difficult-for-city-residents/story-lVAdYLkxdqAoSGOcdPLPSK.html
27-05-2020||Gurugram||Lockdown threatens existence of single screen cinemas||The Covid-19 pandemic and the resultant lockdown imposed to curb the virus has sounded a possible death knell for single screen cinemas of Gurugram, which are taking heavy monetary losses. Though the government has eased out restrictions considerably in the fourth phase of the lockdown — that will end on May 31 — a ban on opening of cinema halls and theatres remains.Theatre owners and administrators said that while single-screen cinemas had stopped being profitable with the arrival of multiplexes, the lockdown had dried up even their meagre earnings and exacerbated losses.A decade ago, Gurugram had six single-screen cinemas of which only two survive today — Payal and Raj. A third one, Shakuntala, has not been running for several years now. While both Payal and Raj had been running in losses and struggling to stay afloat as multiplexes mushroomed, the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown could prove to be the last nail in the coffin for these cinemas.Bhanu Pratap Singh, who has been managing affairs at Raj Cinema for the past 20 years, said that the lockdown had added to the losses of theatres which were already struggling. “One has to pay for electricity and other routine activities. People working here have to be paid salaries. We have three people working for us in different capacities. Two of them are still around, while one has gone back to his hometown due to the lockdown,” said Singh. He added that employees were being paid during the lockdown, with concessions, considering the current financial situation. “The operator and the cleaners are permanent employees, who need to be paid,” he said. Singh said that on routine days, the revenue earned would be used for paying the salaries of employees and some other costs, but with that drying up, the losses were mounting with no relief in sight. Singh said that so far, the plan was to see how the situation develops once lockdown restrictions on cinema halls are lifted. Besides the financial loss, the loss of audience was a major cause of concern. “The plan is to run the theatre like before, once the lockdown ends. We were in losses earlier as well. This time, however, we have lost our audience as well. We will have to assess the situation, since people who usually watch films here are mostly migrant workers who have gone back to their hometowns,” said Singh.Payal cinema in sector 14 has also been shut since the lockdown began. Rameshwar Dayal, manager, Payal cinema, said that a decision on running the theatre would be taken by the owners, once lockdown restrictions are lifted. “Single screen cinema theatres were never making profits, but with the lockdown, even the meagre earnings have dried up. Guards and cleaners need to be paid for their services. The expenses continue as before and the losses are just adding up now,” said Dayal.The exodus of workers from the city is also likely to have a massive impact on the theatre’s future, he added. “We are not sure if and how the theatre will work post the lockdown. Our audience usually comprises labourers and with most of them going back to their hometowns, we are uncertain about the future,” said Dayal. He said that bouncing back might take many months, since cinemas were the first to shut down and might be the last ones to open.Joginder Kalra, one of the owners of Shakuntala Cinema, a single-screen theatre that stopped operations a decade ago, said single-screen cinemas had no or little earnings and the only way of survival was converting them into a multiplex. “Single screen cinemas don’t have an income source. They were running as a formality before the lockdown. Now, the losses will only multiply,” said Kalra. He added that single-screen cinemas can change into three-four screens cinema to keep with the changing times. Kalra said he has applied for the conversion of Shakuntala into a multiplex and the process was underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/lockdown-threatens-existence-of-single-screen-cinemas/story-dtI4BY0FoeVr4kTECYkPmK.html
27-05-2020||City||7 days institutional quarantine for those coming from abroad, Delhi Govt asks hotels to refund||New Delhi: The Delhi government has decided to go with the Centre’s guidelines on international arrivals, which was revised to seven days in institutional quarantine followed by another seven in home isolation -- from the old rule of 14 days institutional quarantine straightaway. It also issued an order directing hotels to refund surplus money to individuals who had paid for 14 days quarantine in advance.“Since they (people who arrive from other countries) can now leave for home quarantine after seven days, the amount paid by then for the remaining seven days should be refunded to them, which some hotels are refusing to refund... The undersigned (Delhi’s chief secretary Vijay Dev)... hereby directs all authorities concerned to ensure that foreign returnees who were quarantined in hotels and paid advance for 14 days, shall be refunded their balance amount without any delay,” said the order issued on Wednesday which HT has seen.Thousands of people came to Delhi under the Centre’s Vande Bharat Mission and were asked to choose from different hotels on payment basis. The hotels included Le Meridien, Red Fox, Taj Vivanta Dwarka and so on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7-days-institutional-quarantine-for-those-coming-from-abroad-delhi-govt-asks-hotels-to-refund/story-NNMemfCbXucxlw5sR4NlIM.html
27-05-2020||Gurugram||State prepared to meet locust threat: Agriculture minister||The Haryana agriculture department is working in close collaboration with local panchayats and farmers to ensure that the locusts that have entered some areas of neighbouring Punjab and Rajasthan don’t cause damage to the crops in the state. Emergency response teams have been formed and seven districts bordering Rajasthan have been put on alert to meet any situation, state agriculture minister Jai Prakash Dalal said.The locusts fly in large swarms and feed voraciously on crops and vegetation in large areas. The threat posed by locusts in Gurugram is less as there is no standing crop in the district, local agriculture officials said, adding that preventive measures have been put in place. The officials of the Locust Warning Organisation based in Faridabad also said that there was no threat of swarms entering Delhi on Wednesday as these were moving towards Dausa, Karauli and Dholpur in RajasthanThe state agriculture department, Dalal said, has been preparing for this threat since January as advisories and warnings regarding desert locusts were received much earlier. “We have alerted seven districts that border Rajasthan—Rewari, Mahendergarh, Sirsa, Fatehabad, Charkhi Dadri, Bhiwani and Hisar—and asked the local administrations to take preventive measures and keep a close watch on the situation,” he said.The minister said that guidelines have been issued to local functionaries, tractor spray machines deployed, meetings held with farmers and the areas in which the likely spread can take place mapped. “We can’t stop the locusts from entering the state but by working on the ground, we can ensure that the damaged is prevented by spraying insecticides and taking other measures. Agriculture officers are collaborating with local farmers and have formed groups at the local level and supplied them with an adequate amount of insecticide to neutralise the locusts. We are closely monitoring the situation as well,” he said.The cotton crop spread over 50,000 to 60,000 acres in the districts neighbouring Rajasthan is under threat because of the locust swarms, officials said. As per the latest information shared by an official of the Locust Warning Organisation based in Faridabad, the locust swarms are moving towards Dausa, Karauli and Dholpur in Rajasthan and there is no threat to Delhi as of now, an official said.Dr KL Gurjar, deputy director, directorate of plant protection, quarantine and storage, Faridabad, tweeted, “There is no possibility of reaching locust swarm in New Delhi upto 4 pm today as stated in the news. The swarms are moving towards Dausa, Karauli & Dholpur [sic].”No official from the directorate responded for comment despite repeated calls.The state agriculture department is also in touch with locust control units in the neighbouring states and is keeping a watch on their movement. Since January, the locusts have visited the state twice—once they were spotted in Elanabad and the second time in Loharu, the minister said.Locust swarms have not been witnessed in India in decades. There have been instances of locust breeding at the local level, but they were controlled, agricultural experts said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/state-prepared-to-meet-locust-threat-agriculture-minister/story-jibtr9sFIL9hM5bCoJ6ePL.html
27-05-2020||Chandigarh||MBBS fee in Punjab’s govt colleges hiked 80%||The Punjab cabinet increased the MBBS fee in government and private medical colleges of the state on Wednesday. The fee for the full five-year course in government-run medical colleges from this session will be Rs 7.8 lakh from Rs 4.4 lakh previously (an increase of around 80%).In private medical colleges, the fee for government quota seats has been hiked from Rs 13.4 lakh to Rs 18 lakh (35% increase) for the course. For management quota, the fee is now Rs 47 lakh instead of Rs 40.3 lakh (around 17% increase).“For Adesh institute in Bathinda, the government has decided to decrease the fee, which will be Rs 18 lakh for government quota seats and Rs 47 lakh for other seats. Till now, this institute used to charge Rs 65 lakh per seat for the full course, claiming that it does not come under the state government ambit as its medical college is affiliated with its own university. Now, we have regulated all such institutes,” said state medical education and research minister OP Soni, adding that all private medical colleges will follow this pattern.A spokesperson in the chief minister’s office said the MBSS fee for government medical colleges was last notified in 2015; for private colleges this was done in 2014. He added that with massive surge in costs, colleges were facing fiscal problems and were unable to meet the norms of the Medical Council of India, thus necessitating the fee hike.Rs 51,100 cr package sought from CentreThe cabinet has also sought Rs 51,102 crore from the Centre to help the state tide over the financial crisis due to the pandemic and the lockdown. A draft memorandum to this effect was approved, with the cabinet authorising the CM to make amendments before submission.In addition to direct fiscal stimulus of Rs 21,500 crore, the state plans to seek waiver of long-term Cash Credit Limit (CCL) debt, saying that this was imperative for its fiscal recovery. The draft document also adds that Central schemes should be 100% funded by the Government of India.A spokesperson added that the state also proposes to ask for Rs 6,603 crore for improvement of public health infrastructure in the long-term.To contain the spread of covid-19 in rural areas, ₹5,068 crore has been sought for liquid and solid waste management in villages. Capital outlay and targets under the MGNREGS have also been revised upwards.The state cabinet has also okayed a rural transformation strategy at a cost of Rs 5,655 crore to ensure funds for development of rural infrastructure and individual beneficiaries through convergence of funds under its schemes and programmes, such as the MGNREGS, the Smart Village Campaign, the Pradhan Mantri Gramin Awas Yojana (PMAY-G), as also finance commission grants and panchayats’ own money etc.Decision on lockdown on May 30The government will decide on the lockdown in the state on May 30, after the CM chairs a review meeting with all departments on the covid situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mbbs-fee-in-punjab-s-govt-colleges-hiked-80/story-pZfYGhV1ptQjEskFtJ7oZK.html
27-05-2020||City||St Stephen’s teachers allege damage to trees on campus, principal says all rules followed||New Delhi: Thirteen faculty members of Delhi University’s St Stephen’s College on Wednesday said the college administration has violated forest and tree protection law by causing damage to trees during construction activity on campus. The faculty members also filed a complaint with the Delhi forest department.In a letter sent to principal John Verghese on Tuesday, the faculty members, who are also on the panel of college’s governing body (GB), said, “We are shocked and dismayed to find that since 22.05.2020 various arbitrary activities have been carried out apparently on your instructions. A very large portion of the front garden of Teacher’s houses A-15 and A-16 has already been trespassed upon and there is illegal encroachment by the construction workers...The trees inside and outside teachers’ flats A-15 and A-16 have been seriously damaged. These are large ancient trees, part of college heritage and beauty, and a vital part of the green cover of the college.”The principal denied the allegations and said that he had acted in accordance with the college constitution and in response to the approvals sanctioned by the Governing Body. A senior official at the Delhi government’s forest department on Wednesday said that they had received a formal complaint from the teachers’ body of the college seeking action on “encroachment, felling of ancient trees, fences and hedges during construction activity on campus”.“In the inspection carried out at the campus by the tree officers, it was found that at least 10 mature trees of different species were damaged while one full-grown tree was pruned without securing any prior permission for the activity. The nature of the offence is grave. We will write to the police enclosing the complaint and photographs of the area and request them to lodge an FIR in the matter,” said a senior forest officer, who did not wish to be named.The forest officials also said that despite request the college administration did not cooperate with tree officers when they reached the spot for site inspection on Wednesday. The officials said they had to take help from police to enter the college premises. They said there spotted the violations, mentioned above, at the spot. The forest department had not filed any police complaint until late Wednesday night. But the principal said, “There are no arbitrary and illegal actions on the college campus in violation of environmental laws, forest and tree protection laws and the constitution of the college... As part of the relaying of the college roads, it was decided by the college on recommendation of the architect that the existing road at the Allnutt side would be slightly widened in order to comply with the safety precautions and regulations with respect to buildings and roads prescribed by the Municipal Council of Delhi.”Verghese added that Master Plan by the Town Planning Department of the MCD mandates that all internal roads are to be of 6m wide for unrestricted vehicular movement and fire tenders. “Sufficient surface parking needs to be provided to comply with the parking requirements specified by the Town Planning Department of the MCD. As a consequence, the hedges in front of the houses had to be removed and the road slightly widened. I had communicated this matter to all the residents in the area via my email dated 20 May 2020.He said that the college architect had certified that none of these were in violations of the forest laws, the tree protections laws in the directions/ guidelines issued by the Delhi High Court and the National Green Tribunal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/st-stephen-s-teachers-allege-damage-to-trees-on-campus-principal-says-all-rules-followed/story-B5PzeJnEYbdz6N6B36IY1H.html
27-05-2020||Gurugram||Haryana Vision Zero to shut operations due to lack of funds||The Haryana Vision Zero (HVZ), a road safety programme launched in May 2017 to achieve zero road fatalities across the state, has decided to end its operations on May 30, citing lack of funds caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. Every year, HVZ would receive a cumulative funding of Rs 3 crore from Honda company and Nagarro as part of corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds. The next batch of funding was to be initiated on May 1 this year, but HVZ officials said that further funding from the two companies was hindered due to the coronavirus outbreak, as a result of which their organisation has to be closed down. When asked, Manas Fuloria, chief executive officer of Nagarro, said, “The funding came up for renewal just when the Covid-19 crisis had started. The economic slowdown plus the uncertainty of when things will return to normal and the programme could restart led us to not renew our commitment. We will be happy to look at it in another avatar, maybe focused on Gurugram this time. Nagarro did not support the programme only monetarily, but also with our time, office space for holding HVZ training sessions, and with some IT and project management.”Representatives from Honda did not respond to requests for comment.The HVZ officials said that they are looking at restarting the programme in the future, but at a smaller scale that will solely focus on the aspect of road safety in the Gurugram district.“We tried our best to continue with the initiative for as long as we could. We will look back at this three-year period with pride as it brought down fatality rates across all parts of Haryana and above all saved lives. We will plan to see how we can reintroduce HVZ in some form or the other in coming time. In the meanwhile, we will continue supporting the state government in implementing the recommendations of the HVZ programme,” said Sarika Panda Bhatt, programme coordinator, HVZ.HVZ commenced operations in May 2017, after signing a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Haryana government. It is loosely based on the principles of the in Sweden’s Vision Zero programme which commenced operations in 1997.Initially, HVZ started with only 10 districts of Haryana and in 2018 expanded to cover all 22 districts in the state.With a team of 27 road safety experts, HVZ audited roads across the state to determine accident-prone stretches, black spots, and engineering defects that were all contributing towards road fatalities. Their audit reports, along with suggestions for executing engineering or infrastructure changes, were subsequently shared during district road safety meetings across all 22 districts in the state in the presence of various stockholders, such as Haryana police, public works department, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), local municipal corporations, and other local agencies for implementation.During its three-year tenure, the total number of road fatalities recorded in Haryana was 5,390 in 2017, 5,356 in 2018, and 5,125 in 2019. Similarly, for Gurugram, the total number of road fatalities was 484 in 2017, 469 in 2018, and 401 in 2019.Additional director general of police (ADGP), law and order, Navdeep Singh Virk, declined to comment on the matter stating that “this was not a police matter and rather was a government issue”.However, the Haryana transport minister, Mool Chand Sharma, said, “We have already asked for a file on HVZ to review its work and see which suggestions of theirs can be implemented in each district. We extend support to all road safety programmes engaged with the state government, especially to those that are making a difference on-ground.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-vision-zero-to-shut-operations-due-to-lack-of-funds/story-1FgDM7Li558tlMSxcysSFL.html
27-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi high court seeks details of steps for hospitalisation of serious Covid-19 cases||Taking suo moto cognisance of a video clip in which a man had alleged that his mother, who was suffering from Covid-19, was asked shift to hospitals, the Delhi high court on Tuesday directed the Centre and the Delhi government to state the arrangements made to deal with serious coronavirus patients who require immediate hospitalisation. The court sought the status of functional and responsive helpline numbers being operated by them, as many of them were said to be found non-functional.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar said the authorities “should assess the adequacy of the helpline capacity and state whether the same is sufficient to deal with the present call traffic and the traffic expected in the foreseeable future, keeping in view the continuous rise in the number of cases being reported each day”.“In our view, the helpline numbers of the GNCTD should also provide guidance and information to the caller as to which hospital has beds available for the treatment of serious Covid-19 patients — both in government and private hospitals, particularly in the proximity of the caller patient’s location. The capacity created to deal with calls made on the helpline numbers; the nature of assistance rendered, and; the log maintained for the same, if any, should also be placed before the court,” the bench said in an order uploaded to the website on Wednesday.The Delhi government’s standing counsel (criminal), advocate Rahul Mehra provided 10 helpline numbers, which include the numbers the caller had dialled, besides an interactive call number — 1031. He said the helpline numbers were found not to be functioning efficiently and instructions had been issued to set the system in order. He said it would be done in the next couple of days.Appearing for the Centre, standing counsel Kirtiman Singh told the court that number 1075 is an all-India helpline number and about 3 lakh calls have been received on it so far. Responding to the court’s observations, a Delhi government official said, “We will launch an app later this week. It is expected to further streamline the process”.The order comes after the court took note of a video by one Deepak Bhardwaj, who had said the deputy medical superintendent of Max Hospital, Patparganj, asked him to arrange a ventilator and bed in another hospital. Bhardwaj’s mother, Shyama Sharma, was admitted to Max Hospital, Patparganj, on May 19 and tested positive for Covid-19 on May 21.“The patient continues to be under treatment at Max Hospital, Patparganj, and the family is convinced with her course or treatment at the hospital. Since the matter is sub-judice, we would not like to comment any further,” said Max Healthcare in a statement.In the video clipping, he said he visited several hospitals but to no avail. He alleged he called the Centre’s helpline number — 1075 — multiple times and two of Delhi government’s helplines, but got no response. He said the district surveillance officer also did not respond to calls.“The patient continues to be under treatment at Max Hospital, Patparganj, and the family is convinced with her course or treatment at the hospital. Since the matter is sub-judice, we would not like to comment any further,” said Max Healthcare in an official statement.The court said the issues raised in the recording were of public concern in the present-day context. It said a person who, or whose family or friend is found Covid-19 positive, should be able to call the helplines to not only report such an occurrence but to also seek guidance and assistance about hospitals where such patients may be taken.“The helplines should render meaningful and effective help to the callers. If the experience of Dharmendra Bhardwaj is anything to go by, it appears, this aspect has not been adequately addressed by the respondents,” the court said. The court said the Delhi government should consider providing ambulance facilities to pick up serious Covid-19 patients for hospitalisation.The bench scheduled the next hearing for June 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/court-seeks-details-of-steps-for-hospitalisation-of-serious-covid-19-cases/story-fMNzrfuWe9BxhDlidhi7BI.html
27-05-2020||City||Gurugram’s Covid-19 cases with links to Delhi clustered in crowded areas of the city, says report||Gurugram: As a part of the contact tracing of coronavirus (Covid-19) disease patients to curb its spread, the district health department has found that at least 100 patients had links to Delhi, adding that most of these 100 are clustered in Dundahera, Khandsa and Jyoti Park.A report prepared by the health department on May 23, when the coronavirus tally in the city was 262, shows that a single patient who was infected with the SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes the coronavirus disease, in Delhi, transmitted the contagious virus to about five to 15 people in Gurugram.“After the ease in lockdown rules, the spill-over of infections from Delhi is likely to increase. We are collating data to review the situation. The purpose of the report is to study the contact tracing of cases so far and to find Covid-19 clusters where transmission could be prevented,” said Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer (CMO).In the last week of April, the Haryana government had closed the Delhi-Gurugram border to prevent movement of people to and from Delhi to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease. The borders are not yet unsealed and only those with valid movement passes are allowed. In peak hours, to avoid traffic congestion, employees and workers coming from Delhi are, however, allowed to cross the border without any pass. The report, accessed by HT, shows that the first patient having links with Delhi was detected in March, after the wife of a Covid-19 patient in Nirvana Country had tested positive. The husband was admitted to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi. Then, at least 17 people in Gurugram, who attended a Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin Delhi mid-March, had tested positive for Covid-19.A case was reported from Dundahera when a man had contracted the virus at Ram Manohar Lohia hospital in Delhi after he had to take his epileptic son there for treatment. The man returned to Gurugram on April 22 for a day while his son was undergoing treatment in Delhi. He got himself tested in Delhi before he came to Gurugram and returned to Delhi the next day. On April 25, he was confirmed for Covid-19 and was admitted to AIIMS, Jhajjar. Doctors in Delhi had then informed the Gurugram health team about the case. “When the team collected samples, three of them had tested Covid-19 positive,” said Punia.“Later, five people living in the same building where the man had visited were found coronavirus-positive. One among the five transmitted the virus to four other people. They further infected over five people,” he said. As per the report, one of them is a tailor in an export company. “It was found that more than 40 were living in the same building and one positive case transmitted the virus to at least 15 people,” said Punia, adding that all were put under institutional quarantine to prevent the virus’ spread. Notably, Dundahera shares a border with Delhi.Likewise, in Jyoti Park, a young man, who worked for a referral ambulance service in Delhi, also tested positive. Before his reports confirming the same, though, the man had already transmitted the infection to at least eight people, including three health staff members of a private hospital where he had gone for a health checkup.On May 4, at least nine cases were traced to Gurugram’s Khandsa mandi, the vegetable market. Of these, seven had links with Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi while two dealers had contacts with people in Nasik and West Bengal. But as the district health department increased surveillance, they found that at least 20 people had already contracted the coronavirus from Azadpur mandi.Other affected cases with links to Delhi are based in Sirhol, Palam Vihar, Sector 10A, Jawahar Nagar and Sector 53, the report adds.Gurugram deputy commissioner Amit Khatri did not offer a comment over the issue||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-s-covid-19-cases-with-links-to-delhi-clustered-in-crowded-areas-of-the-city-says-report/story-r0gsdC45crIR1HiKKX9aUM.html
27-05-2020||City||Mandatory screening, surveillance for domestic flight passengers at Chandigarh airport||Mohali deputy commissioner-cum-district disaster management authority chairperson Girish Dayalan has issued directions for the domestic air passengers at the Chandigarh International Airport for preventing the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19).All the passengers shall be screened for Covid-19 at the airport with the Mohali civil surgeon deploying adequate teams for the purpose at the airport. All asymptomatic persons belonging to Punjab or whose destination is Punjab, shall be required to undergo mandatory home quarantine for 14 days from the date of arrival. All symptomatic persons or any other cases as determined by the medical team shall be tested. If positive, the person shall be shifted to an isolation facility and if negative, shall still be required to undergo home quarantine for 14 days and self-monitor their health status and report to the nearest government health facility in case they develop any symptoms.All incoming passengers belonging to Punjab or whose destination is Punjab, shall install COVA app on their smartphones before exiting the airport. They shall also necessarily turn on the bluetooth and GPS. The airlines shall publicise this extensively to ensure that this information is made available to all the passengers boarding the flights well before their departure. In-flight announcements shall also be made in each flight regarding the protocol as laid down in these orders. The airlines shall be responsible for ensuring this to enable efficient tracking of passengers. Any violations shall invite penal action as per law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mandatory-screening-surveillance-for-domestic-flight-passengers-at-chandigarh-airport/story-gOP6gabsPk1oFS1uyLNvUK.html
27-05-2020||City||All arrested in Mohali being tested for Covid||In the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, the Mohali police is getting mandatory Covid-19 tests conducted for people arrested for any offence.Senior superintendent of police Kuldeep Singh Chahal said the tests are being done to check the spread of the virus. Civil surgeon Manjit Singh said: “Whenever police bring an accused for medical checkup, we conduct the Covid test. While the report is awaited, the accused is kept in police custody.”However, police are facing issues in getting the reports, which take about one day and till then the accused has to be kept in the police custody as a safety measure. “We take special permission from the courts to keep accused in the custody while the reports are awaited,” said a police official posted in Zirakpur. Ever since the outbreak took place, those arrested in Mohali are being sent to the Ludhiana jail.“Covid-19 free health certificates have been made mandatory for new prisoners. The jail authorities do not accept any prisoner without the corona test,” said a sub-inspector posted at the Kharar subdivision of Mohali.The jail authorities have set up a screening centre as well and before admitting any accused, they get all the tests done as per the updated list of health check up of prisoners. An assistant sub-inspector posted at the Dera Bassi subdivision of Mohali, requesting anonymity, said,“It is for our safety also. With most of the positive cases being asymptomatic, we do not know who could be positive, thus getting the test done is in a way keeping us safe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/all-arrested-in-mohali-being-tested-for-covid/story-4pDn5z2Hr5WTYfD2lkzgVM.html
27-05-2020||Delhi||Covid helpline receives more than 51,000 calls||The Delhi Police on Wednesday released data concerning calls they received on their Covid-19 helpline. The police received more than 51,000 calls inquiring about obtaining movement passes in the lockdown, the non-availability of food and money, medical emergencies, travel arrangements for migrants, and several distress calls.The helpline was launched on March 24, the day Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the lockdown in the country to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). According to the police, they initially received around 1,100-12,00 calls every day, a majority of them for movement passes. The number has now come down to between 400 and 500 per day in the last couple of weeksThe police said that 1,330 people called the helpline — 011-23469526 —from March 24 till Wednesday morning, regarding the non-availability of money, food, ration or other essential items. All the 1,330 people were called back on the mobile numbers through which they had contacted the police. “We found that 880 people have already left the city. We delivered ration kits, each containing four kg rice, five kg flour, two kg pulses, one kg salt, oil and spices, to the remaining 450 who are still here,” Delhi Police spokesperson Mandeep Singh Randhawa said.During the first three-four weeks, on an average, the police said they received 30 calls every day concerning the lack of food and money, but in the last couple of weeks, this number has come to two or four calls. Police data shows that a total of 51,041 calls was received on the helpline till 8am on Wednesday and a majority of them—32,127 calls—were regarding the issue of movement passes, which allow the movement of a person or vehicle during the lockdown. A total of 5,581 people called the helpline from outside Delhi.“A total of 402 callers were stuck at some other place, away from their family members, but wanted to return. We counselled many of them and told them to stay put wherever they were unless there is a medical or another emergency. About 565 calls were related to medical emergencies while 69 calls were from senior citizens for various queries,” deputy commissioner of police (licensing) Asif Mohammad Ali, who is supervising the helpline, said.The helpline also received 63 Covid-19-related calls and 21 psychological distress calls. A total of 9,074 were miscellaneous calls, the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-helpline-receives-more-than-51-000-calls/story-PeMOoNQykEypnP9BQd1F7M.html
27-05-2020||Noida||Irresponsible behaviour of a private hospital behind newborn’s death in Noida, probe on: Health officials||A day after a man narrated his ordeal on a video while cradling his newborn’s body and calling out the laxity of the state’s health care system, officials of the health department held a private hospital responsible.According to the chief medical officer (CMO), Gautam Budh Nagar, while the probe is still going on, the preliminary investigation showed that a private speciality hospital in Noida did not follow certain protocols, leading to the death of the newborn.Officials said that the private hospital did not provide a proper referral for the patient nor did it provide an ambulance with a proper ventilator, due to which the newborn, who had breathing issues, died.“Three major lapses were found on the part of the private hospital where the family took the newborn. The baby had breathing issues and thus was put on the ventilator; however, when his father said that he could not afford the treatment, the private hospital did not provide a proper referral slip or an ambulance with a functional ventilator. The four-hour-old baby could only breathe with help, but the hospital took it off life support and asked the father to go elsewhere,” CMO Dr Deepak Ohri said.He said that after the police called 108 and asked for an ambulance, due to a lack of referral and medical staff, the ambulance driver did not know where to go and took the baby to the Dadri Community Health Centre (CHC).“Dadri CHC did not have the expertise to treat the newborn, so they referred him to the Government Hospital, Noida, which referred him to Child PGI at Sector 30. However, the baby died before reaching the hospital,” Ohri said.He said that the two officials are already investigating the case and will take action against the hospital. When asked about the ambulance delay, issues with the oxygen cylinder and the poor role of the government hospitals as alleged by the father, Ohri said that they are yet to be ascertained.“The ambulance had the proper facility for administering oxygen, but the probe is on,” the CMO said.On Tuesday, Prem Kumar, a resident of Sector 36, Noida, was made to go from one government hospital to another to get his newborn treated.The distraught father said he had to wait for two hours for an ambulance to arrive and was made to go to three government hospitals with the unwell baby. The newborn was finally declared dead on arrival at the third hospital, the Child PGI, on Tuesday morning. The father later made a video narrating his ordeal while returning home with the body of his baby tied to his motorcycle.“After multiple calls, the ambulance arrived about two hours later. We took the baby off life support only to find that the ambulance did not have a functional oxygen cylinder onboard,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/irresponsible-behaviour-of-a-private-hospital-behind-newborn-s-death-in-noida-probe-on-health-officials/story-AG5bjqEODAUydsWDBkPAuM.html
27-05-2020||City||Mohali SSP marks probe over ‘misbehaviour’ plaint against Sohana SHO||A senior citizen has accused the station house officer (SHO) of Sohana village in Mohali of misbehaviour and forcibly taking away the keys to a portion of his house.Rajinder Singh, 60, of Landran village, complained against the SHO, inspector Daljeet Singh, to Mohali senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal, who entrusted an inquiry into the matter to SP (city) Harvinder Singh Virk on Wednesday.Rajinder said he had a two-storey house in Landran. He said he had disowned his son about six years back, while his daughter-in-law was staying on the first floor and he and his wife on the ground floor.Rajinder said he had lodged a police complaint against his daughter for harassing them a month ago, adding that the SHO came to his house on Tuesday night and took away the keys to the room on the second floor and even abused and threatened him and his wife with implication in a false case. However, denying the allegations, the SHO said, “It was a domestic dispute and I had taken the key of the room into custody so that the family members sort out their differences.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-ssp-marks-probe-over-misbehaviour-plaint-against-sohana-sho/story-8G48CXcfQrDyTKpy6CkrKL.html
27-05-2020||Delhi||Covid count crosses 15,000 mark in national capital Delhi||On Wednesday, a day after the number of new Covid-19 cases in Delhi fell below 500 (412) for the first time in a week, the national capital reported 792 infections of the disease, the Delhi government’s daily health bulletin said. The fresh cases took Delhi’s infection tally to 15,257 since the first Covid-19 case was reported on March 2.The bulletin said 15 more deaths have taken the toll from Covid-19 in the city to 303. The Covid-19 mortality rate in the city is now almost 2%, compared to 2.8% nationally. Delhi’s mortality rate has been going up since a three-member death audit committee started adding more deaths caused by the pandemic to the cumulative report from May 12. With 86 deaths and 7,639 cases, the mortality rate was 1.1% in Delhi on May 12.According to the daily data released by the Delhi government, more people are being tested and the percentage of people testing positive went up to 13.7% on Wednesday from 7.6% on May 18 when Delhi recorded 299 cases, one of the lowest in a day this month. This brings Delhi closer to the scenario for which a five-member advisory committee, to advise the CM on Covid-19, asked the government to be prepared for-- 1,000 cases daily. The first scenario was 100 and the second 500 cases daily.Experts warned the number of cases is likely to go up further. “The lockdown [to check the pandemic spread] was like a lid. People were staying indoors and not coming in contact with a lot of people, reducing the chances of infections. Once you lift the lid, more people are bound to get infected,” said Dr Lalit Kant, the former epidemiology and communicable diseases head at the Indian Council of Medical Research.Kant said that is the normal course of the infection. “The chances of the virus dying down on its own is minimal; it has not happened in any of the countries. The lockdown gave us time to prepare our systems. What we need to do is keep our vulnerable safe--the old, people with a compromised immune system, the poor bearing the brunt of the lockdown and who do not have good nutrition--to reduce mortality.”The Delhi government eased the lockdown last week and allowed public transport, reopening of the markets based on the odd-even formula and liquor shops, except those inside malls.The Delhi government has maintained since March that it is prepared to handle 1,000 cases daily. Given that 30% of all active cases in Delhi are currently hospitalised, 1,000 daily cases would at least lead to around 300 hospital admissions a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-count-crosses-15-000-mark-in-national-capital-delhi/story-zu5HXsoID0VwgrciqjfEsN.html
27-05-2020||City||Man shot at during morning walk in Sector 68||Noida: A 60-year-old man was allegedly shot at by an unidentified person in Sector 68 on Wednesday morning when he was out for a morning walk, the police said, adding that he is now out of danger. The victim, identified as Sukhpal Singh, is a resident of Garhi Chaukhandi village under Phase 3 police jurisdiction. According to the police, the incident took place around 5.15am.“An unknown person shot at the victim and fled the scene. We got to know about the incident when a jogger called the police helpline. Singh’s family members and passersby took him to a private hospital in Sector 71. He received an injury to his shoulder and is recuperating now,” said Ankur Aggarwal, additional deputy commissioner of police, Zone 2.Based on the complaint of the victim’s younger brother, Vijay Pal, a case of attempt to murder (Section 307 of the Indian Penal Code) has been registered at the Phase 3 police station, the police said.Police officials said that this was not a robbery attempt as the suspect did not try to take Singh’s valuables. Prima facie it seems that Singh was attacked by someone who was familiar with his routine, said the police.“The family has not mentioned any personal enmity. However, we are exploring all possible angles and nothing has been ruled out yet,” said Harish Chandra, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 2.The officials said that for now there are no clues about the shooter. The CCTV footage from the nearby areas will be scanned to trace the suspect, they said. The victim is a property owner which he had leased to multiple tenants and property disputes could also be behind the attack, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-shot-at-during-morning-walk-in-sector-68/story-9ZSeZa4MRE1cHoESMWLzFI.html
27-05-2020||Delhi||DMRC suspends breath analyser test for drivers due to Covid-19||To contain the spread of Covid-19, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Wednesday ordered that train operators will not have to take the breath analyser test when it resumes services.“As a precautionary measure to control the spread of Covid-19, breath analyser tests have been temporarily suspended. However, all train operators will be required to submit a declaration before they sign in for duty, till this practice stays in place,” Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communications, DMRC, said.According to the order, train operators will have to declare that they have not used any “alcoholic drink, sedative, narcotic or stimulant drug or preparation within eight hours before commencement of their duty or during it”.A breath analyser test, a DMRC official said, is crucial for the safety of train operations. It is mandatory, as per Section 29(5) of the Metro Rail General Rules, for train operators to undergo the test before starting their duty.The official said supervisors will conduct surprise checks to ensure operators do not flout the rules.Recently, three DMRC staff had tested positive for Covid-19 --- the contagious disease that has affected more than 15,000 people in Delhi and killed over 300. This is one of the many precautionary measures the Metro is taking to protect its staff and commuters, once operations restart, from Covid-19, the official said. Delhi Metro services were suspended on March 22, even before the first phase of the nationwide lockdown was implemented from March 25.In mid-March, DMRC employees had written to Mangu Singh, the managing director of DMRC, requesting the immediate discontinuation of the breath analyser test for train operators because of the Covid-19 outbreak. But no decision could be taken as Metro operations were halted.More than 1,500 train operators work with DMRC.Among other measures planned by DMRC to contain the spread of Covid-19 is thermal screening of commuters.Dayal said, “We have procured around 800 thermal guns/screening machines; they will be in place in time for the commencement of services. The screening process may involve both DMRC and CISF personnel, depending on the size of the station and the flow of passengers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dmrc-suspends-breath-analyser-test-for-drivers-due-to-covid-19/story-3UvnIjpq9OCWviVxX1yJaO.html
27-05-2020||City||NDMC officials test positive, offices sealed||New Delhi: The sixth floor of the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) headquarters and the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Place building, which houses commercial department of the municipality, were sealed on Wednesday after three employees tested positive for Covid-19.According to district administration officials, the report of 14 NDMC employees from these two departments, who had fever, also is awaited. The sixth floor of the NDMC headquarters houses accounts department of the civic body while the commercial department is housed in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Place building in Gole Market. Commercial department deals with the billing of water and electricity charges.“The premises are sealed for 48 hours after employees working at these offices were found Covid-19 positive. All other staff is directed to work from home during this period,” an order issued by director (coordination) and nodak officer for Covid-19, Virender Singh said on Wednesday.Officials of the New Delhi district administration said that those tested positive include two male employees from accounts department and one male employee from the commercial department of the municipality. “The contact tracing of patients is underway. The floor has been sealed for thorough sanitation exercises,” the official said. Now the number of Covid-19 cases in NDMC have reached to six in last two months. Last week the civic body had shut its Palika dispensary located in the NDMC headquarter after a doctor working there was found positive. The dispensary has now been opened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ndmc-officials-test-positive-offices-sealed/story-rosPoNkwev6zljFoT7FN5K.html
27-05-2020||City||Covid positive shelter home patients never brought to us: AIIMS||New Delhi: The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) informed the Delhi High Court on Wednesday that none of the 20 patients, who were found positive at the night shelter outside the hospital, were ever taken to the emergency department and that they were taken to different hospitals by officers of the District Surveillance Unit (DSU) and Integrated Disease Surveillance Unit.The hospital, in a status report, told the court that since the patients were not brought to them, they could not have been tested for the virus and subsequently admitted there. It said that out of the 20, six patients admitted in the Rajiv Gandhi Cancer Institute were shifted to the Jhajjar campus after a call from the DSU. The court was hearing a plea by a lawyer Karan Seth through his advocate Arjun Sayal, who sought better facilities for outstation patients who have been residing in the night shelter outside the hospital. Another petitioner, Rachna Malik, through her advocate Vaibhav Pratap Singh, had conducted an inspection on the last date after the court issued immediate action.The court, on the last date, had sought to know from the authorities as to why the patients had been sent to far off hospitals such as LNJP and Rajiv Gandhi Cancer Institute when they were being treated here. AIIMS said the hospital had been treating Covid-19 patients and has a total 1,500 patients till now.According to advocate Sayal, the Delhi government counsel said the patients could not be shifted to AIIMS Delhi because it is inaccessible. A detailed court order on the hearing is yet to be uploaded on the official website.Meanwhile, the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), told the court that due to the summer season, there was an issue of less pressure in the water pipeline and hence water jars of 20 litres capacity was supplied to meet drinking water needs.The board said the existing booster pump had now been replaced with a new one to increase the water pressure. Two water coolers of 150 litres capacity with water purifier systems had been installed at the night shelter.The court was informed toilets and bathrooms are cleaned and sanitised regularly by the shelter management agency’s sanitation staff. The infrastructure maintenance work has been carried out by the civil and electrical engineering divisions of DUSIB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-positive-shelter-home-patients-never-brought-to-us-aiims/story-djrgVNC9aInqHPNONXfRZJ.html
27-05-2020||City||Now, take appointment to meet officials at G Noida authority office||GREATER NOIDA: The Greater Noida authority has asked visitors to take an appointment if they want to meet any official at the authority’s administrative office in Knowledge Park-IV. The move is aimed at discouraging the people to visit the office in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, authority officials said.As per the officials, at least 1,000 visitors, including residents, plot allottees, developers and industrial plot owners, come to the authority office on a normal day. “If it is extremely important to meet any official, then the visitor will have to seek an appointment with the official concerned, and after the time is fixed he or she can come to discuss the grievance. Without appointment, the entry of visitors will not be allowed,” said Deep Chand, additional chief executive officer of Greater Noida authority.The authority has also directed its staff to sit at a distance of two metres and follow all standard operating procedures (SOPs) laid down by the government at the workplace. “We have decided to start making electronic files to approve any proposal related with civic issues, development work, land acquisition or individual grievance. If any residents or plot allottees want to get a work done or grievance to be addressed, then they can drop their complaint in a box installed at the gate,” said Chand.The authority has decided to sanitise the drop box at regular intervals and the staff will collect the proposals or complaints from the drop box after a certain time. The resident or property allottee will use drop box facility only if he cannot get work done via online services available at the portal of the authority, said the officials.Besides, it will make a separate entry and exit gates at the authority building so that staff also can keep certain distance from each other.Greater Noida is spread on 38,000 hectares of land and the authority has allotted land for group housing, schools, factories, industries, among others. “We have decided to set up a meeting hall at the ground floor with three chairs placed at a distance of at least 2 metres, so that the visitors can meet the official concerned,” said Chand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-take-appointment-to-meet-officials-at-g-noida-authority-office/story-QjkSWEhzNef10P2hF1jGCN.html
27-05-2020||Noida||Irked by low sales, GB Nagar traders demand change in curfew timings||The 7am to 7pm timing for shops and marketplaces is not working for the shop owners in Gautam Budh Nagar, who now get to open their individual shops only on alternate days. The representatives of different markets said their timings collides with the office timings and as Sunday has been mandated as sanitization day, the markets are yet to see sales picking up.Sushil Kumar Jain, president, Sector 18 market association, said taking cognisance of traders’ problems, the government must change the 12-hour curfew from 7pm to 7am. “Most of our customers are either at work or running their own businesses. They do not get the time to shop after returning offices. And, on Sunday, a holiday when many could hit the markets, the shops are mandatorily closed for disinfection and sanitization,” he said.Jain said traders do not have a problem with the 12-hour curfew. “We just want the curfew timings to change slightly. Even if it is rescheduled, say, from 10pm to 10am, we will be happy as most customers will then have time to visit our shops even after returning home from work,” he said.Echoing similar views, CB Jha, president of Atta market association, said in the present scenario, traders will not be able to sustain themselves for a long time. “Expenses have gone up due to the pandemic and the returns are negligible. The highest daily sale recorded at our market today (Wednesday) and was to the tune of ₹1,000. Even if it increases at a rate of 20%, the monthly income of a shopkeeper, who gets to open shop only every alternate day would be around ₹20,000. How can we meet the rent, staff salaries and other expenses with this earning? We are waiting for the Prime Minister’s speech Sunday. If he does not come up with some major relaxations, we have unanimously decided to down our shutters permanently,” he said.Zakir Hussain, who runs a jewellery shop in Sector 22, said despite giving regular GST returns, the small and medium businessmen are the biggest sufferers. “If the government can provide monetary assistance to farmers and MSME entrepreneurs, the small and middle level businessmen should also be the part of the beneficiaries’ bracket,” he said.Anita Singh, who runs a stationary shop in Sector 18, said shopkeepers of different markets in Noida are keeping their fingers crossed. “We are waiting for the fourth phase of the lockdown to end on May 31. After that, we will take a call on how to proceed. The government has nothing for us in its recently announced ₹2 lakh crore package. We have no subsidy on electricity bills. The interest on our bank loans is mounting up every day,” she said.When contacted, district magistrate Suhas LY said his administration is working on all possible relief measures for businessmen. “We will also consider the issue of changing the curfew timing,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/irked-by-low-sales-gb-nagar-traders-demand-change-in-curfew-timings/story-EuEZGBfs42ejGV7ysfLhzH.html
27-05-2020||Chandigarh||Monsoon a month away, only 10% road gullies cleaned in Chandigarh||Even as monsoon is stated to arrive on time from June 30, the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) has managed to clean only 10% of the 30,000 road gullies in the city so far.Confirming the same, MC executive officer Vijay Premi, who is in-charge of storm water drainage, said, “From June 1, we will work at a much faster speed since double the present 73 workers will be on the job,” he said, adding that they hope to complete the task before June 30.MC chief engineer Shailender Singh said. “The work had only started after the fourth phase of the lockdown. But we will definitely clean all road gullies before monsoon starts here.”FALLING SHORTMeanwhile, city residents are not happy with the ongoing road gully cleaning work. Claiming that MC workers weren’t cleaning the gullies from the inside, president of the Sector 8 residents’ welfare association (RWA) Ranvinder Singh Gill said, “The road gullies are cleaned only from the top without opening them. I had asked the workers to open up the gullies near my house but they refused.”Noting that the problem had only gotten this bad in recent years, chairman of the Sector 35 RWA, JS Gogia said, “Ever since we have started paying more taxes, the situation is getting worse. The V6 roads in Sector 35D are the worst hit, and road gullies remain blocked as well.”President of the Sector 44B RWA, Swadesh Talwar, added that road gullies were already blocked and leading to flooding even during the rain in May. “The situation will only get worse during the monsoon showers in June. I request MC to speed it up and clean the gullies properly from inside which generally is not done,” he said.Federation of Sector Welfare Associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC) chairman and president of the Sector 21 RWA, Baljinder Singh Bittu, said, “Maintenance of road gullies is an annual exercise and the Covid epidemic can be no excuse for delaying it. Every year, the authorities swing into action only after the first spell of rains and pre-monsoon takes place.”MC chief engineer Shailender Singh, however, denied these claims, “Even malba being taken out of the road gullies is being immediately lifted. If anyone thinks that cleaning was not done properly in their area, we will get it cleaned again.”Meanwhile, members of Chandigarh Resident Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) also received many complaints regarding the issue and chairman Hitesh Puri said they will apprise the MC authorities about them. MC ASKS UT TO CLEAN CHOESThe MC has taken up matter with the UT engineering department seeking cleaning of city’s seasonal drainage rivulets — N-choe, Sukhna choe and Patiala Ki Rao.An official said it was imperative to de-silt and de-weed the rivulets, especially N-choe and Sukhna choe, since all road gullies discharge rain water into these choes. “If the choes are not cleaned properly, their water-carrying capacity gets affected significantly during the monsoon, leading to waterlogging in the areas.”Earlier during the monsoon two years ago, the floodgates of Sukhna Lake had to be opened as the water level had increased beyond the permissible limit due to incessant rain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/monsoon-a-month-away-only-10-road-gullies-cleaned-in-chandigarh/story-yhUCEYPYON2nXYwtuLqsnM.html
27-05-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Sealing parameters for highrise societies relaxed; random sampling directed in trans-Hindon areas||Ghaziabad: In what may come as a breather for residents of residential highrises in Ghaziabad, the district health department officials on Wednesday said they have decided to redefine the parameters of sealing towers in residential societies, incase residents living there contract the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease. According to the chief medical officer (CMO) on Wednesday issued an order and relaxed the sealing of Jaipuria Sunrise Greens highrise in Indirapuram which was fully sealed on May 24.“I have issued an order to relax the full sealing of the highrise. As per the order, only one tower of the society, from where a 35-year-old resident was found positive, will be sealed. This will now be made applicable for all highrise societies in urban areas. Henceforth, if there is a single case in a society, only that particular tower (where the infected case lives) will be sealed,” CMO Dr NK Gupta said.He added, though, that the sealing parameters will depend on the number of cases in a highrise. “In case there is more than one case in a highrise and a cluster-like situation emerges, we will increase the area a bit to 400 metres and try that other residents are least affected. If there are more towers in the complex of the same society beyond this limit, they will not be sealed,” he added.In the directions, issued Wednesday evening, the CMO directed for sealing of only the L tower of the Jaipuria Sunrise Greens society, which has a total of 16 towers comprising as many as 1,103 flats.The Noida authorities on Tuesday had issued similar relaxation guidelines for sealing of towers in residential societies in the city.In another direction to check community spread of Covid-19, if any, the Ghaziabad CMO has directed for initiation of random sampling in areas of Indirapuram, Vaishali and Kaushambi.According to official records, the localities of Khoda (30 cases) and Loni (21 cases) have emerged as hotbeds for Covid-19 cases. The official statistics state that besides these two, localities of Vaishali and Indirapuram have witnessed about 19 and 15 Covid-19 cases so far, respectively.“We have been carrying on random sampling in Khoda and also from containment zones. Such sampling measures have now been directed in areas of Indirapuram, Vaishali and Kaushambi, etc. as cases continue to surface. Random sampling will help us deploy teams which will pick up random samples of residents. This method will help us check if there is any community spread,” Dr Gupta said.He further said that he has also given directions for speedy discharge of persons from quarantine facilities and is now stressing more on home quarantine.“Since the government order has also come for home quarantine of close contacts of Covid-19 patients, we have directed officials that such persons should be placed in home quarantine if they have separate rooms and toilets at their homes. Even those close contacts who have tested negative for the disease at least once or who have completed 14 days in quarantine facilities be sent home immediately,” the CMO added.SECTOR SCHEME TO BE DEPLOYED IN LONIIn another major directive for Ghaziabad, the district magistrate on Wednesday said that the Loni town will be subjected to the sector scheme with deployment of magistrates in different sectors and the movement of Loni residents will be restricted to areas of Delhi and Noida.“The sector scheme in Loni will be applicable from May 28 and will be on lines of Khoda, where for instance an entire locality was divided into sectors and managed by magistrates. Under the scheme, teams of health department will take up extensive surveys, sanitisation, surveillance, sampling and other activities in order to check for presence of Covid-19 affected persons,” Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said.“This is being done as there are a number of Covid-19 cases which have emerged from Loni and we need to enhance surveillance to check any further spread,” he added.According to the directions issued with respect to Loni, officials have been asked to make announcements that Loni residents should make arrangements for their stay in Delhi and Noida if they go to these cities for work.For the purpose of initiation of the sector scheme, Loni has been divided in four zones and eight sectors wherein every sector will have deployment of magistrates, police officers and teams of the health department.The administration on May 10 had sealed Khoda till further orders in order to prevent the spread of Covid-19 infection, after a number of cases were reported from there.“In Khoda, 30 persons were found positive while 1,183 persons were found negative. Out of 30, 26 have been discharged while only a single death case resulted, which was due to comorbid conditions of the patient,” the CMO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-sealing-parameters-for-highrise-societies-relaxed-random-sampling-directed-in-trans-hindon-areas/story-qf7nl4ZJlEypadrKOkujDJ.html
27-05-2020||City||BSF facilitates Ranbir Canal desilting on border despite Pak objections||The Border Security Force (BSF) has helped restore Ranbir Canal in RS Pura and Arnia sectors on the international border despite objections by the Pakistan Rangers.Amid the Covid-19 pandemic and intense shelling from Pakistan on the LOC, the BSF stood guard as workers from the irrigation department desilted the canal.Ranbir Canal is the major source of irrigation for farmers in the Jammu region. Constructed in 1905 over 59.55 km, it was a game-changing project that laid the foundation of rapid transformation of rural agricultural economy in Jammu. The famous Basmati rice of R S Pura owes its cultivation primarily to this canal.“The canal enters into the vicinity of the international boundary close to Pakistan. For the past many years, a large amount of silt had accumulated here which resulted in huge blockage in the canal system as the flow of water was also restricted. Farmers in the region were also constantly approaching the UT administration for desilting of the canal,” said a BSF spokesperson.The irrigation and flood control department of J&K approached the BSF authorities for assistance in desilting work close to the border.“Despite huge apprehension of firing by Pakistan to thwart the work, BSF’s timely help to the UT administration was made in the best interest of farmers. The work was taken up in the Arnia and RS Pura sectors under the supervision of senior officers with foolproof security to the civil staff working beyond the barbed fence. The work was completed in record time,” the spokesperson said.The spokesperson added, “Pak Rangers objected to the work and also adopted aggressive posture, but the deft and tactical handling of situation led to successful completion of the work. The locals are very happy as it will immensely benefit farmers in Jammu district.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bsf-facilitates-ranbir-canal-desilting-on-border-despite-pak-objections/story-qZeSdyDQpI0JMphwnWDSwM.html
27-05-2020||Noida||Duo held for raping, blackmailing teenager in Noida||Two men in their twenties were arrested by the Phase 2 police on Wednesday for allegedly raping a minor girl and then blackmailing her and uploading an objectionable video on social media.According to police, the incident came to light on May 26 when the 17-year-old girl’s older brother approached police. The suspects were identified as Chand (26), a native of Bulandshahr, and Shaan (21), a resident of Sorkha. Both of them work with private companies in Noida.“According to the complaint filed by the girl’s brother, Chand had raped her almost a year back by spiking her drink with an intoxicant while Shaan made a video of the incident. The duo kept blackmailing her over the past one year and threatened uploading the video in lieu of which they kept raping her,” said a police official.The suspects uploaded the video of the girl on social media recently.“When the objectionable video started doing rounds, the girl narrated her ordeal with her family and reported the whole incident after which a case was registered against the two,” said deputy commissioner of police, women safety, Vrinda Shukla.The duo had also threatened the girl’s family when they informed the police. Based on the complaint of the girl’s brother, an FIR was lodged against the two under sections 376 (punishment for rape), 328 (Causing hurt by means of poison, etc., with intent to commit and offence), 120B (punishment for criminal conspiracy), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences Act, the SC/ST Act and the IT Act.The suspects were arrested from Bhangel area of Phase 2 on Wednesday and produced before a magistrate after which they were sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/duo-held-for-raping-blackmailing-teenager-in-noida/story-pxF77QIU1iobKMFpukQomM.html
27-05-2020||City||Most migrants gone, Delhi govt working on exit plan from shelter relief scheme||New Delhi: With over two lakh stranded migrant workers leaving the capital for their home states over the past few weeks, the Delhi government has started working on an exit plan for the temporary shelter programme it has been running. To start with, it has reduced the number of meals being offered at the shelters from three to two. Breakfast is not given anymore. The move comes after the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) told the government that most of the temporary shelters set up in schools to house migrant workers had been closed since they had left for their home states. Also, the huge crowds and long queues at the over 1,600 government-run hunger relief centres had reduced by almost half, Delhi government officials said. DUSIB member Bipin Rai said breakfast was suspended temporarily because a review was being done. “We have recommended the government to restart distribution of breakfast from June 1. A decision will be taken around May 29-30 for how long the provision of all meals at the shelters as well as hunger centres will go on,” he said. The NGOs running the permanent shelters for the government had earlier this month raised concerns over breakfast distribution being stopped from May 14. During the lockdown, while NGOs were responsible for providing two meals, lunch and dinner, at these shelters, the government had roped in some private organisations for providing breakfast. Prior to the lockdown, there was no provision of free meals at the shelters. The homeless residents of Delhi at these shelters depend on Good Samaritans who provide food. Data with the Delhi government shows that with most of the migrants gone, the daily beneficiaries at its 1,669 hunger relief centres had declined by over four lakh. “Earlier we used to get a minimum 9 lakh people each during lunch and dinner. This has reduced. On Tuesday, the HRCs fed 701,073 people during lunch and served dinner to 694,241 people. The numbers have reduced because over 2 lakh migrants have been sent back home in Shramik trains form Delhi,” said a media advisor to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.The official said a lot of temporary shelters set up in schools had now been closed with the migrants gone. Another official, not wishing to be named, said at least a dozen such shelters had been cleared, though the final number could be higher. “The data is still being compiled and the complete list of shelters that are now empty is unavailable as of now,” the official said. Over 2 71,000 stranded migrants had left Delhi in 214 Shramik Special trains between May 7 and May 26, deputy CM Manish Sisodia had said in a statement on Tuesday. These trains are run in a special arrangement between the state governments, as per Central government guidelines.The Delhi government had converted 256 school buildings into temporary shelters to house the stranded migrants soon after the nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24. Besides this, DUSIB has around 243 permanent shelters where over 5,000 people are housed. These are people who live permanently at shelters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/most-migrants-gone-delhi-govt-working-on-exit-plan-from-shelter-relief-scheme/story-HgZlDcDnCuNNQp1kY8WaNN.html
27-05-2020||City||Restriction on working of domestic helps in Ghaziabad township||Ghaziabad:Days after the district magistrate directed that domestic helps and other self-employed persons like electricians and plumbers will not be restricted to enter the residential high-rises, some resident bodies have resorted to roll out their own set of instructions.In his written order issued on May 23, district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey had issued directions that arrangement of provision of services can be planned between the employer and the service provider and the local RWA will only have role of an advisor or convener.In the latest instance, the Crossings Republik Owners & Members Association (CROMA), an umbrella RWA body of Crossings Republik Township, has issued a set of ‘advisory’ to be followed against Covid-19 pandemic.“A domestic help will not work in more than three houses and the houses will be of the same tower. She will not be allowed to go to a different tower. Domestic helps will have to go out by 11am after finishing work, and thereafter the society will be sanitised,” said one of the directions issued by CROMA regarding the domestic helps.The Crossings Republik Township has presence of about 15,000 families living in about 28 residential high-rise projects.The directions issued by CROMA have also barred entry of delivery boys inside the society and the residents will have to pick up items from the main gate. Likewise, the delivery of milk has to be done by 11am at flats after which the lifts will be sanitised, they added.Tarun Bharat Chauhan, president of CROMA, said that the instructions have been issued in form of advisory.“There are number of high-rises and people were confused whether to call domestic helps or not. So, residents asked us to frame rules. The problem multi-storeyed buildings face is that when one person enters a high-rise, he uses different common facilities. If one person is infected, other residents will face issues in form of sealing, etc. Our rules are in form of advisory and individual apartment owners’ associations of different high-rises can make changes and implement,” Chauhan said.“At present, we have allowed domestic helps to work in only three flats. We have an in-house app through which domestic helps can be reshuffled to other flats,” he added.The district magistrate’s order on May 23 had specifically restricted the role of RWAs in terms of allowing domestic helps in any society. “The district administration has issued specific orders about the entry of domestic helps, vendors, etc, and it is arrangement between the service provider and the employer. If there are issues, residents can send complaints to the district magistrate or the additional district magistrate (city). We will take action,” Pandey said.Meanwhile, office bearers of other RWA bodies offered different views.Alok Kumar, founder member of Federation of Association of Apartment Owners, said that RWAs should not consider themselves as “administrative officers”.“The DM has already issued directions. The RWAs are caretaker of apartments. If there is anything wrong, RWAs can always approach authorities. If any service provider is posing any issues, complaints can be sent to district officials. The directions by DM should not be altered,” Kumar added.VK Mittal, president of Kaushambi apartments RWA (KARWA), said that district magistrate’s order has to be implemented in totality and RWAs cannot partially or fully modify the order.“We have circulated DM’s order to all our member RWAs and have asked them that they should advise the residents to work according to the order. It is a magisterial order and cannot be modified,” he added.However, Colonel (retired) TP Tyagi, president of Flat Owners’ Federation, said that RWAs are responsible for respective high-rises. “We support the order given by CROMA because the instructions issued by the district magistrate are not in the interest of public. The order by DM is basically confusing and to demean the RWAs. If any RWA has issued some impractical instructions, then course correction can be done,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/restriction-on-working-of-domestic-helps-in-ghaziabad-township/story-Wzab970AZHsXC23JtJAQEI.html
27-05-2020||City||Backdoor induction of govt in can be disastrous, says J&K politico||Panthers Party chairman Harsh Dev Singh on Wednesday cautioned the BJP central leadership to refrain from an “unwholesome and abhorrent political misadventure”, while referring to the rumoured formation of a political regime in J&K sans the democratic process.“J&K is not the UT to undertake such noxious experimentation given its peculiar circumstances and law and order sensitivities,” Singh told media persons at a press conference here.He said, “Handing over the reins to political turncoats and toddlers whose names are being repeatedly mentioned in the media would only aggravate the crisis and result in serious ramifications. People with questionable antecedents and dubious credentials, if given the command, could invite disaster in the UT and nullify the gains achieved in the past.”“Questioning the government’s moves, howsoever ridiculous or unconstitutional they may be, is treated with contempt and considered offensive by the present dispensation. It could entail imprisonment, house arrests or even invocation of PSA against those daring to exercise their democratic rights of questioning the government. And, those having the temerity to question further become ipso facto anti-nationals.Singh maintained that Panthers Party would oppose all undemocratic and authoritarian decisions of the government to uphold the noble values enshrined in our Constitution.He asked why a government should be formed at all by providing constitutional powers to those who are known for defying the people’s mandate by defecting to other political parties time and again. “Can such opportunist leaders do any good to the system or the people of J&K,” he inquired.The former education minister called for early restoration of democracy and revival of duly elected government in the UT in accordance with the procedure encapsulated in the Constitution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/backdoor-induction-of-govt-in-can-be-disastrous-says-j-k-politico/story-k3BshOZPZCNffSHa8pWANN.html
27-05-2020||City||SIT set up to crack Gopalganj triple murder||PATNAThe Bihar police Wednesday said a special investigation team (SIT) has been constituted to crack the Gopalganj triple murder, which took place Sunday evening.Additional director general (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said Saran range DIG Vijay Kumar Verma would monitor the case while an additional SP-rank official would lead the SIT.“A unit of special task force (STF) has been deployed at Hathua block. DIG (STF) Vinay Kumar also visited the spot. The STF is assisting the Gopalganj police in carrying out raids in several parts of district and adjoining areas,” he said.The ADG told media persons that a separate unit of CID team was collecting evidence against the criminals as well as JD (U) MLA from Kuchaikot, Amrendra Pandey alias Pappu Pandey, who has been named as accused in the case.He said that a case has been lodged against five persons on the basis of the statement of Jai Prakash Yadav, who was injured in the shooting while his father, mother and brother died. According to the FIR, Satish Pandey, his son Mukesh Pandey and Bateshwar Pandey were involved in the firing incident, while the JD (U) MLA has been named for hatching the conspiracy.The ADG said the murder of Shashikant Tiwari alias Munna Tiwari at Repura village in Gopalganj district on Tuesday was a revenge killing for the triple murder. Shashikant was a close relative of JD (U) MLA and a contractor.In this case, he said, one Munna Yadav has been arrested, while raids are on to nab two named accused, including Manu Tiwari and Parmendra Yadav. Jai Prakash Yadav, who is an RJD leader, has also been named as an accused in the case.The ADG said that all the accused belonged to the same village.According to police sources, the JD (U) MLA is facing several criminals cases, including of murder and extortion||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sit-set-up-to-crack-gopalganj-triple-murder/story-cPN5aLt50wOlCyisAlYPiK.html
27-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh man held with 10gm heroin||A Chandigarh man was arrested with 10gm heroin on Tuesday. The accused was identified as 24-year-old Krishna who resides at the University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET) campus in Sector 25 as his father works as a Class 4 employee there.Police said the accused was rounded up on suspicion and was later arrested after heroin was recovered from him.A case was registered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act at the Sector 11 police station. The arrested accused sent to judicial custody.Police said no prior cases had been found against the accused. Krishna who was unemployed consumed heroin regularly and also supplied it to nearby colonies, police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-man-held-with-10gm-heroin/story-k7pbhXjmCx2hTqhmTKXCPN.html
27-05-2020||City||Greater Noida: Part of ceiling collapses in high-rise, minor injured||Noida: A seven-year-old boy was injured when a part of the ceiling collapsed at a flat in a Greater Noida West high-rise on Wednesday morning. An FIR has been registered against four persons in the case, the police said.The incident was reported from the house of Sidharth Jaiswal, a resident of Ajnara Homes society, around 8.15am. According to his police complaint, a part of the ceiling in his master bedroom collapsed.“The incident occurred due to poor quality of construction material and negligence on the part of the developer. In the incident, my son who barely escaped received a head injury. My son is getting medical treatment. The builder should be booked under the relevant sections, along with other responsible parties,” said Jaiswal in his complaint.When contacted by HT, the family refused to comment.Based on the complaint, a case was registered at Bisrakh police station against the project manager and three others under sections 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) and others of the Indian Penal Code. “An FIR has been registered and a probe in the matter is underway. Due legal action will be taken,” said Harish Chandra, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 3.Ajnara officials said that they have issued a show cause notice to the contractor. “We have started repairing the damaged roof and will take care of the losses to the resident. We have also sent a show cause notice to the contractor. We will make sure that such incidents should not happen in other flats,” said Aditya Agarwal, GM (construction), Ajnara Homes.Residents have alleged that the quality of construction in the society is poor. “Today’s incident could have been much worse. No one from the builder’s end even came to the house, only some staff came to remove the debris. Officials from the Cherry County police post also visited the spot after which the family filed the complaint,” said a resident of the society, on condition of anonymity.He said that the building in which the incident happened is barely two years old and authorities should take cognizance of the matter before any fatal incident occurs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-part-of-ceiling-collapses-in-high-rise-minor-injured/story-HasKIiUiarfysurtKXfIwJ.html
27-05-2020||City||Jammu sees hottest day of season at 42.6°C||As heat wave continues unabated in the region, Jammu on Wednesday witnessed the hottest day of the season so far.The maximum temperature was recorded at 42.6 degrees Celsius — 3.5 degrees above normal — while the minimum was 26.4 degrees Celsius.On Tuesday, the maximum temperature was 41.9°C, while earlier the hottest day was May 23 with the mercury rising to 42.3°C.“The weather will remain mainly clear and dry for in Jammu for the next couple of days, while the maximum and minimum temperatures will hover around 41 and 26 degrees Celsius respectively,” a met department official said.In Katra, the maximum temperature was 37.5°C and minimum was 23.7°C. At Bhaderwah, the maximum temperature was 29.1°C while the minimum remained at 10.5°C.The prevailing heat wave in Jammu has forced the people to remain indoors, with very few people being seen on the roads. Pedestrians have been using umbrellas to avoid the scorching sun.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jammu-sees-hottest-day-of-season-at-42-6-c/story-06CtR4K2o6rJyxFuGtLbAM.html
27-05-2020||Patna||Bihar reports 15th Covid death, tally tops 3K||Bihar reported 15th death of Covid-19 infected patient at Jehanabad on Tuesday even as the cases crossed the 3,000 mark.Health officials said a migrant worker from East Champaran, infected by coronavirus, died at Jehanabad on May 23. His medical report, confirming the passenger had contracted coronavirus infection, came on May 26.“The deceased came by a Shramik Special and was unwell. When he did not disembark at Jehanabad station, a magistrate on duty arranged to get him out of the train and rushed the passenger to a government hospital in the district, where the doctors declared him brought dead. His sample was taken and sent for test, the report of which came on May 26,” Bihar health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said during a media briefing on Wednesday.Singh, however, did not disclose further details.On Wednesday, the count of positive patients increased to 3036 with detection of 68 new cases. The highest number of infected patients was found in Araria district.The age of infected persons ranged 13 to 65 years.While 14 cases were found in Araria, Madhepura reported 9, Saran and Darbhanga four each, Saharsa three, Begusarai two, besides Vaishali and Kishanganj one each.Singh said migrant workers accounted for two-third of the total cases in Bihar. Around 2,072 migrant workers of the over 18 lakh who had returned to the state after May 3, had so far tested positive for the virus.He said the percentage of Covid-19 positive cases, as compared to those tested, had gone up to 4.4%. Bihar had so far tested 68,292 samples of which 3,010 had tested positive for the virus till Wednesday afternoon.He said Bihar’s average capacity was to conduct around 3,300 tests every day. The department was making every effort to increase its testing capacity so that it was able to isolate and break the chain of coronavirus. Singh said while TrueNat machines had been installed in a few districts, they were in the process of being installed in some other districts as well.“We will very soon be able to achieve testing of 10,000 samples a day that we have been told to do by the government,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-reports-15th-covid-death-tally-tops-3k/story-Q1TJAkz2PTHzbuK5wXQHTM.html
27-05-2020||City||J&K admn sends labourer’s horse to 14-day home quarantine||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has sent a labourer’s horse into 14-day home quarantine in Rajouri district after it was ridden back from a red zone in Kashmir.The horse had ferried its owner from south Kashmir to Rajouri district via Mughal road on Monday.Additional district commissioner Sher Singh said, “A 21-year-old labourer had come to Thannamandi in Rajouri from a locality in south Kashmir’s Shopian which has 23 Covid-19 cases.”“The labourer had come via Mughal Road and we have surveillance teams at Dera Ki Gali. So as per the guidelines, this man was shifted to an administrative quarantine and his sample was also taken for testing. Doctors told us that the horse could also be a carrier. Thus, the animal was screened and examined by the vets of the animal husbandry department. They didn’t find any infection symptoms, but the animal was sent to 14-day home quarantine for precaution. We have advised the family not to touch the horse and feed him from a safe distance. We are waiting for the reports of its owner. If his reports are tested positive then the horse will also be treated accordingly,” said Singh.The ADC also recalled the media reports of four tigers and three lions being tested positive for Covid-19 in a New York zoo some time ago.Rajouri was among the four districts of Jammu region declared as green zones last week, while Shopian district was categorised as a red zone along with 10 other districts in the valley and parts of the Jammu region.Rajouri had recorded a total of 13 coronavirus cases till Tuesday evening. While four of the patients have been cured, the rest are undergoing treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-admn-sends-labourer-s-horse-to-14-day-home-quarantine/story-GruttDtuYZiTf4ndtCYwDO.html
27-05-2020||Patna||Another IAS officer tests Covid +ve in Bihar||A district magistrate in Bihar has tested positive for coronavirus, officials said on Wednesday.An MBBS doctor, the 2011-batch IAS officer, posted in a district of north Bihar, tested Covid-19 positive on Tuesday after he decided to take the test for the same on May 25.“The officer had low-grade fever, sore throat and loss of appetite for the past 4-5 days. Though he was taking precautions while going to quarantine camps and railway station, he decided to take the test. His sample was taken on May 25 and sent to the Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRIMS) in Patna, and he tested positive Tuesday,” said his colleague, requesting anonymity.“The officer and his wife have quarantined themselves in separate rooms, after his spouse too showed Covid symptoms. Her sample has also been sent for test,” he said.Despite going into isolation, the officer is still at work and was in touch with district officials over phone and on WhatsApp, said a district official.The district, where the DM is posted, has so far received over 50,000 migrant workers and continues to receive 6-8 Shramik Special trains every day.This is the second case of an IAS officer in Bihar testing Covid positive. Earlier, a 2017-batch IAS officer, posted as a sub-divisional magistrate in Nalanda, had tested positive on May 12.Bihar has reported 3,010 coronavirus cases with 15 deaths as of Wednesday afternoon. A total of 918 people have recovered from the disease so far.Migrant workers account for two-third of the total Covid-19 cases in the state, with 2,072 having tested positive out of the over 18 lakh migrant workers who have returned to the state so far after May 3.Bihar’s principal secretary, health, Uday Singh Kumawat, did not respond to phone calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/another-ias-officer-tests-covid-ve-in-bihar/story-ngTWDSwL8tHflWuEcpaSYO.html
27-05-2020||Noida||Nearly 550 migrants from Noida sent back to Uttarakhand in 3 days||Nearly 550 migrant workers have been sent back to their home state Uttarakhand from Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar in the last three days, officials said on Wednesday. Over the last few weeks, thousands of migrant workers stranded due to the coronavirus lockdown have been sent to their homes in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttarakhand, among other places, from Gautam Buddh Nagar adjoining Delhi, the officials said. The decision to arrange transport and send back the stranded migrant workers is in compliance of an Uttar Pradesh government order, District Information Officer Rakesh Chauhan said. “On Tuesday, 409 migrants embarked on journey to their homes in Uttarakhand on 12 buses. The buses were stationed at Greater Noida and in Noida. Earlier on May 24, 140 migrants returned to Uttarakhand on board six buses,” he said. The process was overseen by District Magistrate Suhas L Y, Police Commissioner Alok Singh and officer in-charge for COVID-19 response in Gautam Buddh Nagar Narendra Bhooshan, Chauhan said. Additional District Magistrate Diwakar Singh said all buses were sanitised and the passengers were given seats in compliance with the social distancing norms. “The passengers were screened for their fitness by the health department teams before they were allowed to board the buses for the hill state,” he added. Thousands of migrant workers and daily wage earners in Noida and Greater Noida were rendered jobless ever since the lockdown came into force to break the chain of COVID-19 transmission. Gautam Buddh Nagar district in western Uttar Pradesh has recorded 366 positive cases of coronavirus, including five deaths, till Wednesday, according to official figures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/nearly-550-migrants-from-noida-sent-back-to-uttarakhand-in-3-days/story-JNZSpVo0LZfCM7pMDSiQsN.html
27-05-2020||City||Lull in new cases: J&K admn mulls easing curbs in Srinagar||With no Covid-19 cases being reported for several days in the city, the Jammu and Kashmir administration is planning to ease restrictions in some parts which it deems fit for the same.Srinagar has been under lockdown since March 22 and enhancement of restrictions over the past couple of days had also led to altercations between the police and doctors at many places. However, the administration has now decided to relax these curbs phase wise.Deputy commissioner Shahid Choudhary also hinted at the easing of restrictions within the city.“The district disaster management authority conducted the comprehensive review of 36 containment zones in Srinagar. At least 12 such zones will see ease in perimeter restrictions like roads, lanes etc starting tomorrow. Zone-wise notification/advisories will be issued,” he said while thanking the people for their cooperation during the lockdown.A senior doctor who is part of the government’s Covid-19 response said things are stable in the city and now for many days no cases have been reported. “Though Srinagar is a red zone, it could turn into orange or green zone. Officials are working hard and with people’s cooperation, the war against Covid-19 could be won,” he said.For the past few days, there has been a slight increase in the movement of traffic. Government offices and banks are working in the city, however, there is no public transport plying on the roads and all the schools are shut. With the easing of restrictions, the activities within the city could get stimulus.Officials, however, said that containment zones and the places from where Covid-19 cases will be reported will see no ease in curbs.“The city should get some relaxation now. There is no surge in the cases and situation is quite better than a month ago,” said Lateef Ahmad, who runs a furniture business in the old city area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lull-in-new-cases-j-k-admn-mulls-easing-curbs-in-srinagar/story-AQwope7f4RxYxvrWoRvlSM.html
27-05-2020||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal thanks Covid-19 warriors, shares their stories on social media||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday thanked all those who are at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19 and shared their stories on Twitter. He said doctors, nurses, police, civil defense volunteers, and many others are working day and night without caring for their lives. Kejriwal called them the real heroes of Delhi. “Most of us are locked in our homes during the Covid epidemic. But some Delhiites are serving the people of the city and the country. The entire Delhi salutes these #DilliKeHeroes. I will begin sharing the stories of such heroes on social media from today,” he said in a tweet in Hindi. In a video posted by Kejriwal on Twitter, Vijay Yadav, a cook at the Delhi government’s food distribution centre, asked if people like him go back home, who will feed 30-35,000 people daily? Rajendra, a civil defense volunteer associated with food distribution in the hunger relief centres in the national capital, said he feels proud to be working for the people of Delhi. Narrating her story in the video, a nurse at the LNJP hospital said she worked for 14 days in shifts without any leave. Dr Ajit, the nodal officer at Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital, said, “I have not gone home in the past two months. I am in the hospital only and all our necessities are being taken care of. We reach our hotel at around 2 am and come back on duty in the morning at around 7-8 am.” He also served as the head of the cardiac surgery department at the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-thanks-covid-19-warriors-shares-their-stories-on-social-media/story-Wm6vPyF9MZTYgWkyVN7okN.html
27-05-2020||City||J&K admn brings back 95,420 stranded residents so far||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has evacuated 95,420 residents so far via Lakhanpur in buses, special trains and flights amid strict observance of Covid-19 guidelines, officials said on Wednesday.The concerned district administrations are pro-actively working to ensure that all returnees go through the medical screening, followed by 14-day quarantine.As per the official data, the districts administrations have received 27,512 stranded passengers in 34 special trains at Jammu and Udhampur railway stations from different states and UTs so far, while about 67,908 persons have been evacuated through Lakhanpur.Meanwhile, about 652 passengers, including students, have been brought back in four special flights under the Vande Bharat Mission.According to a detailed break-up of figures, about 736 stranded passengers have entered through Lakhanpur from May 26 to May 27, while 715 passengers have returned on Wednesday in the 14th special train at Jammu. So far, 14 trains have reached Jammu with 11,872 passengers belonging to different districts, while 15,640 have arrived at Udhampur in 20 special trains.Among the 67,908 returnees evacuated through Lakhanpur till now, 16,296 came from Punjab, 20,635 from Himachal Pardesh, 21 from Andhra Pardesh, 6,638 from Delhi, 1,370 from Gujrat, 2,858 from Rajasthan, 3,932 from Haryana, 150 from Chattisgarh and 3,414 from Uttarakhand. As many as 1,035 returned from Maharashtra, 4,333 from Uttar Pradesh, 63 from Odisha, 267 from Assam and 998 from Madhya Pradesh, 88 from Dehradun, 1,137 from Chandigarh and 684 from Telengana. From Karnataka came 114, while 19 returned from Tamil Nadu, 52 from Chennai, 303 from Bihar, 155 from West Bengal, 72 from Jharkhand, 3 from Nepal and 3,271 from other states and UTs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-admn-brings-back-95-420-stranded-residents-so-far/story-UwxZgcLbgdnB3wPYGJDW8M.html
27-05-2020||City||Police use charm offensive, a day after they are flayed for high-handedness while dealing with docs||A day after doctors’ protest against police high-handedness towards them, policemen in the valley mended fences with the medical fraternity members by presenting them flowers and sweets on Wednesday.For the past couple of days, the police was facing strong criticism for heckling senior doctors at different places. However, both the parties have now decided to bury the animosity and verbal war on the social media.On Wednesday morning, cops led by senior officers went to hospitals and offered flowers and sweets to the doctors and paramedical staff.“May 27 should be declared as Covid Warriors’ Valentine’s Day with a pledge that all the warrior valentines express true love and respect each other or else it might sound like April Phool’s day … Let there be clear cut directions for smooth, respectful, hassle and heckling-free movement of all Covid warriors,” said doctor Ijatiba Shafi.“After beating some doctors and stopping them from doing their duty, police is now presenting flowers to the health staff outside SMHS hospital,” said Athar Parvaz, an environmentalist.After a senior cardiologist on his way to the hospital was beaten up by the police and detained for several hours on May 23, and Bandipore chief medical officer was stopped at a checkpoint, Kashmir inspector general of police Vijay Kumar had on Tuesday issued instructions to his officers to be respectful to the people, especially doctors who on Covid-19 duty.“We can understand that the frontline workers are facing many problems at different levels, but judging others’ mode of duty and their shortcomings is not appropriate,” Baramulla SSP Abdul Qayoom told his officers in a message. “We all must adhere to our basic parameters within the legal and conventional framework of coexistence in the system,” he added.He also told his officers that though they have a tough job, other departments expect a cop to behave in a way that is suitable to them, which sometimes enrages officers on the ground. “I appeal to my officers on the ground to maintain cool, have patience and perform in the larger interests of the society of which they are also a part,” he said.On Tuesday and Wednesday, doctors and paramedical staff had held protests at various places demanding action against the erring cops. The police had already promised inquiry into the detention of senior cardiologist Syed Maqbool. Following these incidents, senior police officers directed cops to be respectful to the people especially medical staff who are performing duties in extreme conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-use-charm-offensive-a-day-after-they-are-flayed-for-high-handedness-while-dealing-with-docs/story-csTQgBg0efeQBLXnmW5hDI.html
27-05-2020||City||26 more test positive in Himachal, state tally crosses 270||Twenty-six more people were tested positive for coronavirus in Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday, resulting in the state tally crossing the 270-mark.A maximum of 15 cases were reported from Hamirpur, seven from Bilaspur, three from Kangra district and one from Una.With this, there are 198 active cases in state, said special secretary (health) Nipun Jindal. Kangra DC Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said that among the three new cases in district one is a 29-year-old man of Talara village in Fatehpur subdivision.“He and his family travelled from Delhi about four days,” said Prajapati adding that the samples of the family members have been sent for testing.The other person is a 30-year-old man of Khaniara village near Dharamshala. He had returned from Gurugram three days ago. Both the patients were asymptomatic and have been shifted to covid-care centre at Dadh.The third case is a 28-year-old man from Palampur subdivision.Earlier in the day two taxi drivers from Delhi were tested positive in Bilaspur. One, aged 38 years, brought passengers hailing from Kullu and was quarantined at the state border.Another, 40-year-old, was ferrying 16 passengers from Delhi. The passengers originally came from Bhubaneswar in Odisha, said Bilaspur DC Rajeshwar Goel.Himachal has witnessed a spurt in Covid-19 cases after May 4 with 233 people testing positive for the virus. As many as 181 cases have been reported over the week.So far, a total of 273 cases have been reported including five fatalities. Three men and two women are among the dead.Hamirpur is the worst-hit district with 93 cases followed by Kangra with 65 cases. Thirty-two have been reported in Una, 20 each in Solan and Chamba, 18 in Bilaspur, 11 in Mandi, nine in Shimla, four in Sirmaur, and one in Kullu. As many as 66 people have recovered so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/26-more-test-positive-in-himachal-state-tally-crosses-270/story-gO5xbjhmsMjqIkoID1v3TN.html
27-05-2020||City||2 more Covid deaths in Kashmir, J&K records biggest single-day spike of 162 cases||As two more patients succumbed to coronavirus disease in Kashmir on Wednesday, the death toll in the Union territory has risen to 26.Of the total 26 fatalities, 23 were from Kashmir and three from Jammu division.The UT also reported its largest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases, with 162 new infections, pushing the count to 1,921, officials said.Of the fresh infections, 124 cases were reported from Kashmir division – Kulgam 27, Kupwara 26, Pulwama 21, Srinagar 20,Shopian 12, Baramulla 10, Anantnag 4, two each from Bandipora and Budgam – where the tally has risen to 1,535.In Jammu division, 38 persons were tested positive on Wednesday, with 11 each from Udhampur and Poonch, four from Jammu, three each from Reasi, Kathua and Samba, two from Rajouri and one from Ramban, taking the count to 386.Meanwhile, out of 1,921 positive cases in the UT, 759 in Kashmir and 95 in Jammu division have recovered so far.Kashmir has 753 active cases while Jammu has 288.Till date, 1,46,152 travellers and persons in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance. Of them, 31,919 persons have been quarantine at home and facilities operated by the administration, 57 are in hospital isolation and 35,843 under home surveillance. Besides, 77,266 persons have completed their 28-day surveillance period.As per the official bulletin, 1,43,241 samples have tested negative.1,289 PASSENGERS LAND IN 15 FLIGHTSWith 1,289 passengers on board, 15 domestic flights landed at Jammu and Srinagar airports on day three of resumption of air travel in the Union territory on Wednesday.Seven flights carrying 217 passengers arrived at the Jammu airport, while eight flights with 1,072 passengers landed at Srinagar airport.On arrival, all the passengers were screened for Covid-19 and transported to their destinations from both the airports amid strict observance of the preventive protocols.Meanwhile, three Shramik special trains carrying about 4,878 Madhya Pardesh and Chattisgarh-bound migrant workers left from Katra on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-more-covid-deaths-in-kashmir-j-k-records-biggest-single-day-spike-of-162-cases/story-Y8ypL9NyHPlyQBFJYewZsI.html
27-05-2020||City||Entire Kamothe node not a containment zone||Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has taken off Kamothe from the list of 139 containment zones. Till Wednesday, Kamothe had reported 163 Covid cases.Municipal commissioner Sudhakar Deshmukh said, “We surveyed the PCMC area and demarcated new containment zones. Only those buildings, societies or areas which have case will be sealed. Only if a sector has many cases, then it will be a containment zone.”Kamothe has got 50 smaller containment zones. “Economic activity with curbs will start in areas which are not containment zones,” said Deshmukh.For the past few days, there has been a decrease in cases and Tuesday saw only two positive cases from Kamothe.Kamothe has reported 163 positive cases and eight deaths.Jamir Lengarekar, additional municipal commissioner, said, “Now, that the entire node is not a containment zone, shops can open some in node. If the shop is in the containment zone or building, then it will remain shut.”PCMC has given permission for standalone shops to open on specific days from 7am to 5pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/entire-kamothe-node-not-a-containment-zone/story-LQqA8LGjSj5TJ5RamzzjLJ.html
27-05-2020||Mumbai||HC directs petitioner to implead registrar general of HC, principal judge of district court in plea seeking court premise for isolation ward||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed a petitioner to implead the registrar general of the HC and the principal district judge of Kolhapur in his public interest litigation (PIL) after he informed the court that the principal district judge refused a request by a magistrate and chairman of the district disaster management authority to hand over a vacant premise of the district and sessions court of Kolhapur to an adjoining hospital. The request for the court building was meant for setting up a temporary isolation ward for Kolhapur city as the adjoining hospital did not have sufficient space to accommodate the increasing number of Covid-19 patients.A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice KK Tated while hearing the PIL filed by Dilip Desai, a social worker and philanthropist from Kolhapur, on Tuesday through video conferencing was informed by senior advocate Satish Talekar that there was only one government hospital in Kolhapur, the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje (CPR) district hospital, which was providing treatment to both Covid and non-Covid patients from the same premise. This, Talekar said, was creating an unsafe environment for non-Covid patients, especially expecting mothers who got admitted to the hospital. Talekar submitted that there was an urgent need to set up a separate isolation unit for Covid positive patients.Desai’s petition further said that as per information received under the Right to Information (RTI) Act, the district magistrate and chairperson of the district disaster management authority on April 28 had written to the principal judge sessions court seeking temporary handover of four buildings of the old district and sessions court situated across the road from the hospital to enable setting up of separate spaces for Covid-19 and regular patients. Talekar said as the district and sessions court had been shifted to a new premise, barring the ground floor of one of the four buildings in the old court complex, the remaining buildings were vacant and hence the district magistrate and disaster management authority had requested for the buildings to set up an isolation ward away from the main CPR hospital building.Talekar stated that as per a communication from the Building Committee of the HC on May 8, the request was rejected without assigning any reason. In light of this and the fact that there could be a spurt in the number of Covid positive cases in Kolhapur, the plea prayed for directions to the disaster management authority to requisition the old district and sessions court building for segregation of patients and to submit a report on measures taken to segregate Covid and non-Covid patients visiting the CPR hospital and other reliefs.After hearing the submissions, the bench observed that as the HC’s building committee and principal judge of the district and sessions court were necessary parties they should be impleaded in the petition and posted the matter for hearing on May 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-directs-petitioner-to-implead-registrar-general-of-hc-principal-judge-of-district-court-in-plea-seeking-court-premise-for-isolation-ward/story-Gx7Svum1ciW0KZc31MtY0I.html
27-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports record 105 Covid-19 deaths and 2,190 new cases||Maharashtra on Wednesday reported the highest number of Covid-19 deaths at 105, taking the count of fatalities in the state to 1,897, a Health official said.The number of cases spiked by 2,190 to 56,948, he said.This is for the first time that Maharashtra has reported deaths in three digits, the official said, adding that they included 32 fatalities from Mumbai.“Of the 105 deaths, 39 deaths occurred in the last two days and rest 66 between April 21 and May 24,” he said.A total of 964 patients were discharged after recovery, taking the number of such cases to 17,918, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-record-105-covid-19-deaths-and-2-190-new-cases/story-FR8ubpFxOUkh6AQoZu5lUM.html
27-05-2020||Chandigarh||Washing car, watering of lawns banned in Chandigarh from June 1||The Chandigarh municipal corporation has banned washing of cars and watering of lawns and courtyards between June 1 and July 31, in order to maintain sufficient water supply this summer. Apart from it, overflowing overhead or underground tanks or leakages in water meter chambers will also be considered as water misuse. MC chief engineer Shailender Singh said 18 teams have already been formed to check the wastage. The violation carries ₹2,000 fine. It will be recovered through water bills. Repeat offenders will face snapping of connection and will have to pay ₹5,000 for restoring it. Last year, around 200 people were penalised.What is prohibited?Washing of vehicles, courtyardsWatering of lawnsWaste or misuse of water for any other reasonOverflow from overhead/ underground water tanksLeakage from water meter chamber and desert coolerWastage of water due to non-installation of bib tapsInstallation and use of booster pump on water supply line||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/washing-car-watering-of-lawns-banned-in-chandigarh-from-june-1/story-4wwr97PGmAUY9J4uccesaK.html
27-05-2020||City||Hit hard by lockdown, Ludhiana’s IELTS, visa consultants seek relief from rent||Impacted by the Covid-19 lockdown, owners of International English Language Testing System (IELTS) coaching centres and visa consultancy firms here have urged the government to provide relief to them by directing their to charge only 50% of the total rent for this year. There are around 750 IELTS and visa consultancy firms in the district, most of them located in Model Town Extension, Feroze Gandhi Market, near the ISBT, Sector 32, Khanna, Doraha, Samrala and Macchiwara.Recently, these centres and firms, attached to the Study Abroad Association, gave a memorandum to deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal in this regard and the DC recommended the memorandum to the chief minister’s office. The coaching centres, that prepare around 35,000 to 40,000 candidates to go abroad every year, are located in the prime locations of the city with a monthly rent of Rs 1 lakh to Rs 2.5 lakh. With no income, the firms are only buying time from landlords to pay rent. President of the association Mitesh Malhotra, who runs seven IELTS and visa consultancy centres in Ludhiana, said the period between April and September was peak season, when a majority of aspirants joind universities or colleges abroad, while in January, there are primarily those applicants, who could not clear IELTS in the first round or didn’t get admission for other reasons. “Even if we start IELTS classes by June or July-end with 30% of the total capacity, only 1/4 of the students of the total average of 40,000 annually will be able to go abroad in the January intake and the commission, that we will get from the universities for January intake, will arrive by April next year,” he said.Criticising the government for not supporting coaching and consultancy establishments at this time, Malhotra said while the government holds NRI sammelans (congregations) to appreciate the contribution made by NRIs for the development of the state, they have no regard for the establishments, that help in making these people NRIs. “We coach and help so many people to go abroad for studies. Coaching and consultancy centres have always played a big role in providing quality life to many Punjabis, who have settled abroad, but the government never thinks of announcing any relief for us,” he said. Gagneet Singh Grewal, who runs a visa-cum-consultancy centre in the Ferozepur Gandhi Market, said, “If the government fails to curb the spread of coronavirus, some countries might not allow the migration of Indians due to which many students, who had earlier planned to study abroad, might decide to pursue their graduation here.” As the nationwide lockdown is expected to end on May 31, the centres have requested the government to allow them to function with full strength from June. “Even if the government allows us to resume operations with 30 to 50% of the total strength, it will not be beneficial for us as we have to increase staff strength for teaching the students in different batches, pay them salaries, GST, electricity bills and also monthly rent. Considering our plight, the government should let us function fully by next week,” said Mittal, managing director of visa consultancy-cum-IELTS centre, based in the Model Town marketASPIRANTS UNCERTAIN, BUT HOPEFULNIneteen-year-old Dimple, a resident of the Jalandhar Bypass area, who had enrolled abroad for electrical engineering, said things didn’t go as per her plan, but she had not lost hope yet. “My maternal uncle is based in Canada. I keep taking an update from him about the situation there. I will take up a job in the city till the situation,” she said. Lakhwinder Singh, 21, a resident of Jagraon, who had planned to go to Canada for pursuing his degree in designing by September, said considering the uncertain scenario due to Covid-19, he had decided to apply for the refund of college fee and postpone his plan for moving abroad till next year. “My parents are also concerned and don’t want me to go this year. Till the situation normalises, I will help my father in his business, but I won’t take admission here. I’m determined to complete my higher studies in Canada,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hit-hard-by-lockdown-ludhiana-s-ielts-visa-consultants-seek-relief-from-rent/story-jab7jkNW6v7cJTFhSvBmEJ.html
27-05-2020||City||Two Thane corporators test positive for Covid-19||After two corporators from Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, they took to the social media to announce that they have been infected.Bharat Chavan from Bharatiya Janata Party and Mukund Keni from Nationalist Congress party are asymptomatic patients.Keni said, “I have constantly been working with the people and have tested positive. I will get well soon and will be back among the people to serve them.” Keni was admitted to a hospital in Thane.Chavan was admitted to a hospital in Mumbai. “Since the virus outbreak, I was on the field helping people in my ward.”The political parties alleged that it was difficult to get a bed for them in a private hospital.A TMC official said, “Both of them have tested positive. We have stopped providing beds for asymptomatic patients. But, we will inquire the reason for their problem.”A woman corporator from TMC had tested positive last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-thane-corporators-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-WRLAhWDUW35ZiU6A9z6QCJ.html
27-05-2020||City||PMC allots 106 rooms for doctors, para-medical staff in various hotels||PUNE: Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has allotted 106 rooms at various hotels in the city for doctors and para-medical staff working in Covid care centres.Recently, doctors from Naidu hospital raised the issue of accommodation as they were uncomfortable going home, being in such close proximity to Covid-19 positive patients.The state government has already allotted hotel rooms for doctors working at Sassoon hospital, but doctors working in PMC-run hospitals were left in the lurch… until now.PMC officer Rajendra Muthe, who is in charge of the accommodation facilities, said, “We have arranged accommodation facilities for doctors and para-medical staff in various private hotels and till date, 106 rooms are allotted. We got a request for 207 medical staff and their arrangements are being made in two institutes and four private hotels.”Muthe said arrangements have been made for staff working at Naidu Hospital, Kamla Nehru Hospital, Sanas Ground quarantine centre, Dropadabai Khedkar hospital and Sonawane hospital.Muthe said that along with accommodation, PMC has also made arrangements for food at these places.“PMC is in talks with more private hotels should the need for accommodation for frontline medical staff increase,” Muthe said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-allots-106-rooms-for-doctors-para-medical-staff-in-various-hotels/story-2SglYI7OIeG4s6ZkkqEqQI.html
27-05-2020||Mumbai||Cannot differentiate between contractual workers, employees working to contain Covid-19: HC to NMMC||Observing that it would be “extremely unfair and unjust” to differentiate between contractual workers and regular employees of the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) undertaking Covid-19 duties, the Bombay high court (HC) has granted interim relief to over 3,000 contractual workers by directing the corporation to pay them the special daily allowance of ₹300 which is being paid to regular employees and officers.A single bench of justice SJ Kathawalla, while hearing a petition filed by Samaj Samata Kaamgaar Sangh, a union representing over 6,000 contractual workers who undertake various civic duties for NMMC, was informed by advocate Bhavesh Parmar that the civic authorities were being unfair towards contractual workers. Parmar submitted that while NMMC was paying a special daily allowance of ₹300 to its employees and officers who were directly involved in Covid-19 containment duty, it refused to extend the benefit to contractual workers as they were employees of the contractor and not directly employed by the corporation.Parmar pointed out that while regular employees of the corporation were “fulfilling their responsibilities by risking their lives”, around 3,261 contractual workers/kamgaars involved in solid waste management, including day-to-day road cleaning and transportation of garbage; 693 kamgaars employed in the health department, which includes duties at four corporation hospitals and 23 urban health posts across Navi Mumbai, and 65 kamgaars employed on cemetery cleaning duty, were also risking their lives, hence refusal by the corporation to pay them the special daily allowance was discriminatory.In light of these submissions, Parmar sought directions to NMMC to not only pay the special daily allowance but also extend the benefit of the central insurance scheme for persons who succumb to Covid-19 while discharging their duty in containing the spread of the virus.On its part, the corporation, through advocate Sandeep Marne argued that as the kamgaars are employed by the contractors to carry out the work of the corporation, they are not entitled to claim parity and receive the said allowance which the NMMC has agreed to pay to its officers and workers.After hearing the submissions, the court observed, “In my view, the risk taken by the employees/workers/kamgaars in carrying out Covid-19 related duties for the corporation cannot be distinguished on their employment being directly with the corporation or through the contractors. In so distinguishing between its own employees and the kamgaars, the corporation is seen to be making a tacit statement, that the kamgaars, though discharging the [same] Covid related duties as the corporation’s own employees, are either not ‘risking their lives’, or despite doing so, need to be paid differently only due to their employer being the contractor and not the corporation. To say the least, this would be an extremely unfair and unjust yardstick to use to value human lives differently.”Thus saying, the bench passed an urgent interim order directing the NMMC to pay certified kamgaars the special daily allowance and posted the matter for further hearing on June 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cannot-differentiate-between-contractual-workers-employees-working-to-contain-covid-19-hc-to-nmmc/story-KxkHV9chKMOwmS2oim2AyI.html
27-05-2020||City||Action against doctors and nurses who do not report for Covid duty: TMC chief||The Thane civic commissioner has initiated the process of filing criminal charges against those doctors and nurses who do not report on duty in three Covid hospitals in the city. The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has claimed that most nurses and doctors in these hospitals do not report for duty, burdening the remaining staff which affects the healthcare of the patients. Cases will be registered against doctors and not the hospital, for not reporting to work, clarified the corporation.The corporation has also chosen three medical officers, one for each of the three hospitals to make a list of doctors, nurses and other medical staff who do not report to duty.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC said, “The staff including doctors and nurses from Kaushalya Medical Trust Foundation Hospital, Thane Healthcare Hospital and Horizon Hospital was reportedly absent from duty. We have appointed three medical officers, one for each of these hospitals who will make a list of these medical staff and register cases under section 188 (disobedience to follow orders) of the Indian Penal Code. Cases will be registered against the staff and not the hospital.”He said that as per their survey staff of three hospitals were found being absent from duty. Malvi added, “We have appointed few private hospitals as Covid hospital to effectively deal with the increasing number of Covid cases in the city. These hospitals are chosen along with their entire staff, we have issued directives that the hospital and the entire staff is appointed to provide treatment to Covid patients and should follow the guidelines of the corporation.” The private hospitals are facing severe crunch of nurses, doctors and other medical staff to tend to the increasing number of Covid patients.A spokesperson from Kaushalya Hospital said, “It is true that we are facing a shortage of nurses, Resident Medical Officers (RMO), doctors and ward boys. We had already informed the TMC regarding the issue and to take appropriate measures.”Corporation looking at five plots to set up hospitalsThe corporation has done a survey of five plots across the city to find a place to set up another Covid hospital to occupy an increasing number of patients in future. The corporation has at present undertaken a 1000 bed hospital in Global Impact hub in Saket and another in Wagale Estate. The civic commissioner on Wednesday did a survey of plots in Anandnagar, Ovala and Kasarvadali to find a suitable plot.Malvi added, “The commissioner surveyed Thane Municipal Transport (TMT) bus depot in Ovala-Anandnagar, Boriwade ground near Kasarvadavli, Police training academy in Saket, Irrigation department ground in Kharegaon and Mafatlal Compound in Kalwa East. He asked the concerned engineers to prepare a map of these plots and check their feasibility to set up a hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/action-against-doctors-and-nurses-who-do-not-report-for-covid-duty-tmc-chief/story-8AZMdHBSOpepDFujJPYveM.html
27-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi Air Traffic Control complex attendant succumbs to Covid-19||A 58-year-old attendant posted at the air traffic control services complex at Delhi airport succumbed to Covid-19 while undergoing treatment at a city hospital last week. The man had contracted the virus last month.Senior officers said the attendant was not in close contact of any staffer as the ATC was functioning only with skeleton-staff due to suspension of flight operations owing to the Covid-19 outbreak.According to a senior officer, the attendant had undergone a liver transplant a few months ago. On April 27, he developed some complications and was tested after developing symptoms of Covid. The man latertested positive.“On Saturday, the man succumbed while undergoing treatment at a hospital,” said the officer, requesting anonymity.Vineet Gulati, member, Air Navigation Services, confirmed the death and stated that the man had tested positive for the virus.On Monday, the Delhi Air Traffic Control had reported its first case of Covid-19, when an assistant general manager tested positive for the virus. As a result, 17 others who were in close contact with him were asked to quarantine themselves at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-air-traffic-control-complex-attendant-succumbs-to-covid-19/story-vGG9sZye9TS23qCV4Hz9gP.html
27-05-2020||Dehradun||69 new Covid-19 cases take Uttarakhand’s tally to 469||As cases continue to rise, 69 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported from Uttarakhand on Wednesday taking the tally of total cases to 469.The evening bulletin released by the state health department informed that 31 more patients had tested positive for Covid-19 in the state after the initial 38 cases detected on Wednesday afternoon.The cases were reported from Almora (6), Dehradun (1), US Nagar (7), Nainital (3), Tehri (11) and Pithoragarh (3). All patients had returned from outside the state namely, Maharashtra, Gurugram, Delhi and Ahmedabad. Earlier in the day, a bulletin released by the state health department mentioned that 37 Covid-19 cases were reported from districts Tehri Garhwal (16), Haridwar (6), Pauri Garhwal (13) and Dehradun (2) on May 26 around 11:45 pm.The patients who tested positive had travel history from Noida, Mumbai, Tehri, Delhi and Maharashtra. One patient was a close contact of an earlier found positive patient while another patient who tested Covid-19 positive had been undergoing treatment at Government Doon Hospital.The health department also issued a clarification that on Tuesday, the department had reported ten positive cases from Nainital district whereas only nine samples had tested positive. There was an error of one sample due to duplication.On Wednesday, 15 people including 12 people from Udham Singh Nagar district and three from Dehradun district had also successfully recovered. So far, Uttarakhand has tested 23, 975 samples of which 18,645 have tested negative and results of 3939 samples are awaited.Meanwhile, a 17-year-old from Balatadi village in Champawat district died while she was in home-quarantine on Tuesday evening.Dr RP Khanduri, chief medical officer of Champawat district said, “We have sent a team of doctors to take samples of the person who died. The woman had returned from US Nagar to her village on May 13 and had been put under home quarantine after spending seven days in an institutional quarantine facility.”The chief medical officer added that the girl complained of a headache after which she collapsed suddenly and was unconscious after which she died while the family members were taking her to the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/69-new-covid-19-cases-take-uttarakhand-s-tally-to-469/story-2svo7ngaQj5uGpNOvPeJ8O.html
27-05-2020||Chandigarh||Three fresh cases in Bapu Dham take Chandigarh’s Covid-19 tally to 282||Three fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Bapu Dham Colony, taking its total tally to 209 and that of Chandigarh’s to 282 on Wednesday.Those infected include two men, aged 20 and 32, of the same household. The third case is that of an 18-year-old youth. According to officials, all are contacts of previous positive cases.Chandigarh now has 91 active cases, of which 89 are from Bapu Dham Colony.The colony accounts for 74% of the total cases and 98% of the active. In fact after a change in testing strategy from May 23, this containment zone in Sector 26 has recorded 62 of its 206 cases within just five days. The first case in Chandigarh was recorded on March 18 and Bapu Dham Colony reported its first infection on April 24.Meanwhile, 46 people who upon recovering were moved to the post-discharge quarantine centre at Sood Dharamshala, Sector 22, were sent home on Wednesday..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-new-covid-19-case-in-chandigarh-after-10-days/story-kOCkUQHo60aMY4WqAOJkUM.html
27-05-2020||Mumbai||Traffic cop loses leg after dumper rams into him, drags him on EEH||A 32-year-old traffic police constable Chandrashekhar Chaudhary lost his leg after a speeding dumper crashed into him and dragged him several metres on Annabhau Sathe Bridge on Eastern Express highway (EEH) on May 24. The incident took place at around 5.30pm when Chaudhary was heading towards Chembur on his motorcycle from his residence at Naigaon in Dadar.The dumper driver did not stop and fled from the spot, leaving Chaudhary on the road. Police officers have been checking footages from nearby CCTV cameras to identify the vehicle and its driver, said inspector Pradeep Kadam of Bandra traffic police station. “Chaudhary is currently being treated at Fortis hospital in Mulund (West). Doctors, after making all possible efforts, had to amputate his left leg,” said Kadam.The incident took place when there was nobody around, and the traffic constable was helped by a citizen who took him to a hospital in Chembur. “Chaudhary, who was conscious till that point, gave the number of his colleague to the citizen. The citizen alerted the number and also informed the control room,” said an officer from the traffic department.A case has been registered in Chembur police station against an unknown vehicle, added the officer. “Chaudhary was on night duty and had left his residence at 5pm for some work in Chembur and was supposed to report to work at Bandra traffic police station. After we learnt about the accident and saw his condition, he was shifted to Fortis Hospital the same day,” said his colleague Mahendra Darekar.Chandrashekhar’s elder brother Yogesh Chaudhary, who is also in the police department and is posted at Jalgaon, said, “I was informed by Chandrashekhar’s colleague and came to Mumbai the very next day. I have not informed our parents about his condition as they are old, and there is no one at home to take care of them.”A native of Jalgaon, Chandreshekar had joined the police department in 2007 as police constable under sports quota and was attached to Bandra traffic police station since the past two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/traffic-cop-loses-leg-after-dumper-rams-into-him-drags-him-on-eeh/story-YWZwoPcFjs5j6EanRMsHAO.html
27-05-2020||City||Ludhiana vegetable vendor’s murder: Third accused arrested||ludhiana@hindustantimes.comFour days after arresting two men for allegedly killing a 30-year-old vegetable vendor and robbing him in Chander Nagar, the Haibowal police arrested their accomplice on Wednesday. The police also recovered a sharp-edged weapon from the possession of Tarun Kumar, alias Bumb, of Jassiyan Colony in Haibowal Kalan.On May 20, three men on a scooter had intercepted the victim, Ramu, near Malhi Palace when he was on his way to the vegetable market around 5.15am. When Ramu resisted their attempt to rob him, one of the accused stabbed him in the chest and fled the spot after snatching his wallet.Two of the accused, Nitin Verma, alias Nik, of Durgapuri and Rohan Kumar Verma of Ranjodh Park in Haibowal Kalan were arrested on May 23, and the scooter used in the crime was recovered.According to the police, the accused are drug addicts and robbed the victim to meet their need for drugs.Sub-inspector Mohan Lal, station house officer (SHO), Haibowal police station, said a day after killing the vegetable vendor, the accused had also robbed a woman of Rs 5,000. Earlier on March 18, they had robbed a man of Rs 7,000 in Haibowal, and accused Tarun had snatched a mobile phone and stolen a motorcycle on May 16, he added.The SHO said the accused were already facing trial in at least six cases of snatching and hatching conspiracy of robbery.They have now been booked under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-vegetable-vendor-s-murder-third-accused-arrested/story-0KYekl9NtGrlbMdRxfsP0K.html
27-05-2020||City||PSPCL launches helpline numbers ahead of paddy season in Punjab||In view of the upcoming paddy season, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited’s (PSPCL’s) central zone has released a list of contact numbers of nodal centres for the immediate redressal of grievances of consumers during summer season and farmers sowing crops.The central zone of PSPCL comprises Ludhiana (East), Ludhiana (West), Khanna and suburban circles. The department will also start helpline number 1800-180-1512 from June 1 where people can make a complaint by giving a missed call from their registered mobile numbers. Ludhiana central zone engineer-in-chief Daljit Inder Pal Singh Grewal said since a large number of complaints were received on 1912 during summer, the nodal centres’ numbers had been issued for convenience of the power consumers and farmers. The official also said that the staff had been directed to resolve the complaints within the same day, adding that an additional call centre will be set up in Mohali for four months from June 1 to register the complaints. The official also said that the workers going to the field for the redressal of grievances will be equipped with safety kits and modern equipment. CONTACT NUMBERS OF NODAL CENTRESAll these numbers will be functional from June 1.KHANNA CIRCLEKhanna division 9646-112-119Doraha division 9646-112-124Mandi Gobindgarh division 9646-112-126Amloh division 9646-112-021Sirhind division 9646-111-993LUDHIANA EAST CIRCLECity Centre division Daresi Chaura Bazaar 9646-112-051CMCH 9646-111-217Focal Point 9646-111-316Sundernagar 9646-111-214LUDHIANA SUB-CIRCLEAddha Dakha division 9646-112-097 Jagraon 9646-112-101Raikot 9646-112-099Ahmedgarh 9646-139-994Lalton Kalan 9646-122-363LUDHIANA WEST CIRCLE Aggar Nagar Unit (1) 9646-114-711Haibowal Agar Nagar Tech (2) 9646-112-093Model Town (Dhandran) 9646-114-715Model Town 9646-114-714Estate 9646-114-687Janta Nagar 9646-114-716||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pspcl-releases-helpline-numbers-for-paddy-related-complaints/story-r2hI38ofKiclcqEFC5MKRL.html
27-05-2020||Mumbai||Animal Welfare Board ask states to report on animals stranded in circuses during lockdown||The Animal Welfare Board India (AWBI) – a central government advisory body - has asked all states to submit a report after an animal welfare group People for Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) highlighted the plight of stranded animals in circuses across India during the Covid-19 pandemic. States need to identify circuses in each district, inspect how animals are doing, check, housing conditions, and feeding practices and submit a report of each circus to the board.HTC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/animal-welfare-board-ask-states-to-report-on-animals-stranded-in-circuses-during-lockdown/story-AmDwnsf8Wppzw81eD6nQ5M.html
27-05-2020||City||19-year-old boy attacked with knife for failing to return money||A 19-year-old boy, who supplies chicken in Kalyan, was allegedly attacked by a man with a knife on Tuesday.Bhushan Bhoir, who has chicken business, went to Ambivli to supply chicken. He met Avinash Patil, 35, who was also into the same business till he started supplying electrical equipment. According to the police, Bhoir had borrowed ₹10,000 from Patil around nine months ago.Patil has not been earning anything in the past two months of the lockdown. He asked Bhoir to return his money. When Bhoir said he did not have money to return him, Patil got angry and attacked him with a knife.An officer from Khadakpada police station said Patil was arrested immediately. “Some of our police personnel were patrolling the area and immediately arrested the accused and took Bhoir to hospital. Bhoir suffered minor injuries. We have registered a case under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of Indian Penal Code against the accused.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/19-year-old-boy-attacked-with-knife-for-failing-to-return-money/story-TiVKiOledqr9CVB5pLKYEP.html
27-05-2020||Mumbai||Man killed, one injured for objecting sale of marijuana||A 26-year-old man was murdered in Ghatkopar after he and his friends indulged in a quarrel with four persons who were selling marijuana and alcohol in a slum on Tuesday night.The deceased was identified as Sarfaraz Khan. Two persons — Abdul Latif Shaikh, 34, and Yogesh Shah, 32, — were arrested and police are looking for two more persons.According to Ghatkopar police, the complainant in the case, Allahrakh Shaikh, 32, had come to meet his mother who lives in Ramrahim Mitra Mandal area in Ghatkopar (West). “Since the beginning of the lockdown, Allahrakh was living with his friend at Parksite in Vikhroli and decided to meet his mother in Ghatkopar along with two of his friends which included the deceased Sarfaraz and one Salman,” said Madan Patil, police inspector, Ghatkopar police station.Allahrakh reached Ghatkopar on Tuesday night when he indulged in an altercation with four persons. As per his complaint, he objected Abdul who was selling marijuana and alcohol. Further, Abdul and his friends had also indulged in an argument with a woman living near Allahrakh’s residence.During commotion, Sarfaraz was attacked with sword and knife. He succumbed to his grievous injuries. Salman too was injured in the attack and was hospitalised. The police were informed who have traced two persons and a case has been registered under Indian Penal Code (IPC) section 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder) among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-killed-one-injured-for-objecting-sale-of-marijuana/story-wMye4mfCpn0SlDiKhOttpL.html
27-05-2020||City||Woman survives 35-foot fall into well||A 45-year-old woman from a small village in Mokhada, Rakmi Phufane survived a 35-foot fall after she slipped filling water from a well. As the well had little water, she hit the rocky bottom and suffered injuries on her head and face. Locals rescued her using the stone jutting and took her to a government hospital in Jawhar. She is undergoing treatment at the hospital.Phufane is a resident of Dapti village in Mokhada which houses around 319 tribal families who work as farm hands. As the lone well in their village dried up in February, the residents were relying on neighbouring villages for water. Phufane’s husband Sakharam said, “My wife and other women decided to walk 3km to another village, by climbing a small hill, to reach another well which had water.”There were a number of people gathered near well for water. However, when Phufane was fetching water she slipped and fell into the well. As the base and the sides of the wall had sharp stones, she got injured. Some people called a few men from the village who climbed down to the well and rescued her.Vijay Shetye, Tehsildar, Mokhada, visited Phufane and assured them of help. Shetye also inquired as to why there was a delay in water tanker reaching her village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-survives-35-foot-fall-into-well/story-iZsc3e78hUdLI3dMKc11LO.html
27-05-2020||Mumbai||Masters programme admission process for TISS goes online||The Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai, has restructured its admission process for Masters programmes doing away with any physical visits by candidates to the campus. The institute has cancelled the pre-interview test (PIT) and candidates will now be interviewed online, said the institute administration in a notice issued on Sunday.The TISS National Entrance Test (TISS NET) and Management Aptitude Test (TISS MAT) were conducted in January this year. However, owing to the nationwide lockdown, the institute had to defer the second stage of the admission process wherein candidates selected in the two tests had to take the PIT and visit the campus for interviews.However, the institute has now clarified that the second stage, sans the PIT, will kick off from the second week of June. “TISS plans to restart the admission process from early June. Given the public health concerns and mobility challenges due to travel restrictions, it is decided to restructure the admission process. The modifications detailed below are made keeping in mind the challenges for candidates in times of Covid restrictions. These modifications are applicable only for the current admission process,” read the notice.TISS deputy registrar MP Balamurugan said that the admission process has been restructured to facilitate online interviews of selected candidates. Accordingly, the scoring pattern has been modified: TISS-NET: 60% (for human resource management and organisation development, change and leadership programme, the score will be combined of TISS NET and TISS MAT in 40:20 ratio) and personal interview: 40%. The revised schedule for interviews for Mumbai, Tuljapur and Hyderabad campus is June 8 to 17, and for Guwahati campus is June 29 to July 4, 2020. The first merit list will be out on July 20 and the new academic session will kick off on August 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/masters-programme-admission-process-for-tiss-goes-online/story-Y4qKrYn8wVKYN9YSSJYUqN.html
27-05-2020||Mumbai||Surgery removes coin, bead stuck in bodies of two children||A coin and a metallic bead, lodged in the food pipe and nose of two children respectively, were removed via an endoscopic surgery in a hospital at Mira Road on Monday. Dr Neepa Vellimuttam, consultant ENT surgeon at Wockhardt Hospital, Mira Road carried out the two surgeries. In the first case, a one-year-old boy had swallowed a Re 1 coin and in the second, a metallic bead was stuck in a 4-year-old girl’s nose. “The kid had swallowed the coin while playing and had difficulty in swallowing. His parents rushed him to the hospital where the emergency surgery was done,” said Vellimuttam . An x-ray confirmed the position of the coin, lodged in the cricopharynx (the narrowest part of the food pipe), she said. “An endoscope was inserted into his throat to pull out the coin,” added Vellimuttam. The same day, a 4-year-old girl was admitted with a metallic bead lodged in the posterior part of her nose. “The child had inserted the metal bead while playing. Using an endoscope, we removed the bead,” said the ENT surgeon. Both patients were discharged on Tuesday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/surgery-removes-coin-bead-stuck-in-bodies-of-two-children/story-Sh69g7D2x99jO7GGHNPA0I.html
27-05-2020||City||24-year-old AC mechanic hangs himself in Ludhiana||A 24-year-old AC mechanic allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan at a house in Nanak Nagar.Police said the deceased hailed from Nagar village in Phillaur, Punjab, and was living in the house of his employer’s relatives in Ludhiana’s Nanak Nagar where he worked at a shop.Inspector Vijay Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Daresi police station said no suicide note was recovered from the spot, and according to the deceased’s father, the youth had not complained of any issues.The SHO said according the deceased’s employer, he had provided him makeshift accommodation in Ludhiana as he often used to finish work late.On Tuesday, the youth took Rs 200 from his employer and returned to his room. He was found hanging on Wednesday morning.After the police were informed, the body was sent to the Ludhiana civil hospital for autopsy. Police have initiated inquest proceeding under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/24-year-old-ac-mechanic-hangs-himself-in-ludhiana/story-QwilonT2w8qZFR0vFnVauO.html
27-05-2020||Education||West Bengal schools to remain closed till June 30, says Partha Chatterjee||Schools in West Bengal will remain closed till June 30, the state government announced on Wednesday. Education Minister Partha Chatterjee said the decision was taken as several school buildings were damaged by cyclone Amphan in eight districts and there is also a possibility that some of the buildings may be used as quarantine centres for the migrant workers. The government had earlier announced that schools will remain closed till June 10. The rescheduled dates for Class 12 state boards exams remain unchanged and they will be held on June 29, July 2 and July 6 as announced last week, Chatterjee said addressing a press conference in Bikash Bhavan here. He said the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education has been asked to put in place all necessary precautions for holding the exams in 1,058 examination centres. “If necessary, the buildings of some colleges can also be used for the higher secondary exams,” he added. The cyclone has caused damage to 462 examination centres and alternative venues are being scouted, the minister said. These affected exam centres are located in Kolkata, North 24 Parganas, South 24 Parganas, East Midnapore, East Burdwan, Nadia, Hooghly and Howrah districts. The minister, who earlier in the day met senior officials of the education department, said as per preliminary estimate the damages to educational institutions, including colleges, due to the cyclone has been pegged at Rs 700 crore and the department will soon be submitting a report to the state government for help. To make up for the prolonged disruption in classes, the government will ask coordinators to ensure that teachers take classes of students at home if they live in the same locality, he said. “We will work out the modalities in this regard very soon,” Chatterjee said. The department was also actively considering the proposal to provide free textbooks to the cyclone-affected students, particularly those in the higher secondary level, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/schools-in-west-bengal-to-remain-closed-till-june-30-says-partha-chatterjee/story-0d4oXDNIUM2yxBphfz2qfP.html
27-05-2020||Chandigarh||Rain, hailstorm lash Himachal, yellow warning issued for next three days||Isolated places in Shimla, Solan, Sirmaur, Kullu, Mandi, Chamba and Kangra districts received heavy rainfall along with hailstorm, thunderstorms and gusty winds on Wednesday. The state meteorological department had issued a yellow warning for lower and middle hills of the state for May 28, 29 and 30.The state’s meteorological department director Dr Manmohan Singh said due to a fresh western disturbance, rainfall accompanied by hailstorm and thunderstorms were likely to take place throughout the state till June 2.Despite the rainfall, the heat wave continued to scorch the state. The minimum temperatures were normal and maximum temperatures were one-two degrees above normal.Shimla, the state’s capital, witnessed light to moderate rainfall and recorded a maximum temperature of 28.4°C.Dharamshala, Manali, Dalhousie and Kufri recorded maximum temperatures of 32.2°C, 25.8°C, 24.1°C and 20.2°C, respectively. Solan, Bilaspur, Hamirpur and Nahan recorded a maximum temperature of 35.4°C, 39.5°C, 39.2°C and 36.6°C, respectively.With a minimum temperature of 5.8°C, Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was coldest in the state while Una was the hottest at 43.2°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rain-hailstorm-lash-himachal-yellow-warning-issued-for-next-three-days/story-pJfuH7asBt0Slj5XO5r0QN.html
27-05-2020||Jaipur||Heat wave continues in Rajasthan but some relief in sight from May 29||Severe heat wave conditions continued to prevail over most parts of Rajasthan on Wednesday. However the met department has forecast some relief from the scorching heat from May 29.with thundershowers and dust storms in several areas.The temperature in most districts is above 40 degrees Celsius. Churu recorded a high of 50 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, the second highest maximum temperature recorded in Churu the month of May in the last ten years. On May 19, 2016, Churu had recorded a maximum of 50.2 degrees Celsius, the met office said.The met department has said heat wave conditions will continue for the next 24 hours in 26 of 33 districts in the state.However some relief from the heat wave is expected from May 29 to June 2 with dust storms and thunder storms predicted, said Met department director Shiv Ganesh.He said there is a western disturbance over Afghanistan and neighbouring areas and a cyclonic circulation over Punjab and its neighbourhood which will bring thundershowers and dust storms over the next few days.Heat wave conditions are forecast in Bikaner, Churu, Hanumangarh, Sriganganagar, Barmer, Jalore, Jodhpur, Jaisalmer, Nagaur Pali, Alwar, Jhalawar, Kota, Bundi, Baran, Bharatpur, Chittorgarh, Dausa, Jhunjhunu, Karauli, Sawai Madhopur, Tonk, Dholpur, Sikar, Bhilwara, Jaipur and Ajmer districts.Jaipur had a high of 45 degrees Celsius and the heat wave will continue over the next 48 hours, the met department said. However the district will witness thunderstorms and dust storms from May 29 to June 3.The maximum temperature recorded in Churu was 50 degrees which was 7.4 degrees above normal. Sriganganagar and Bikaner recorded 47 and 47.4 degrees Celsius respectively.Jaisalmer, Sawai Madhopr, Kota and Pilani were all above 46 degrees. Jaisalmer recorded 46.4 degrees, Sawai Madhopur was at 46.6 degrees, Pilani was at 46.9 degrees and Kota was at 46.5 degrees Celsius, between 3 and 4 degrees above normal.Phaldi had a high of 45.8 degrees, 2.7 degrees above normal while Barmer was at 45.7 degrees. 3.5 degrees above normal. Jaipur had a high of 45 degrees Celsius, 3.4 degrees above normal. The minimum temperature is hovering between 30 degrees and 34 degrees Celsius in most cites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-s-churu-records-50-c-for-second-consecutive-day/story-g5PCXZRRatpUK8S63jyFsK.html
27-05-2020||Mumbai||Ozone concentration in Maharashtra cities spikes during lockdown||Despite a decline in vehicular pollution during the lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic, there has been an increase in urban ground-level ozone, a harmful pollutant, across 10 Maharashtra cities, according to an analysis of the National Clean Air Program (NCAP).The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) comprising - Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai and Kalyan - witnessed a spike in urban ozone during the first three phases of the lockdown over two months (March 24 to May 24), according to an analysis released as part of the NCAP tracker on Tuesday by Mumbai-based air quality research group Respirer Living Sciences (RLS) and Delhi-based communications initiative, Climate Trends. The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) confirmed the findings were accurate.Surface ozone (O3) is a photochemical oxidant, which is formed when volatile organic compounds and oxides of nitrogen (NOx) chemically react in the presence of heat and sunlight. Ground-level ozone is harmful for humans as it can aggravate asthma, cardiovascular diseases and other ailments.The latest study found a 10.3% rise in ozone across 10 Indian cities during the two month lockdown period. Among monitoring locations across Maharashtra, Khadakpada in Kalyan has shown the highest average ozone levels at 70 micrograms per cubic metre (μg/m³) against the safe limit of 80 μg/m³ (for 24 hours), followed by the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation Khutala station in Chandrapur at 64 μg/m³. While the concentration ranged between 23-37 μg/m³ for MMR, a 50% increase in average O3 levels was witnessed when compared to 2019. Comparatively, a 50% reduction for Mumbai and 58% for Thane was witnessed for nitrogen dioxide (NO2) levels that comes mostly from burning of coal and vehicular exhaust.“The analysis indicates that when NO2 levels remain low, surface ozone is higher as photochemical production can become more efficient during summer months,” said Ronak Sutaria, founder and director, RLS. “Breathing air with high ozone poses a risk for people with asthma and other lung ailments especially for children, older adults, and those active outdoors such as daily wage workers.”MPCB said they were investigating the spike in the pollutant by comparing different station readings.“Based on our preliminary data collection, ozone is going up across Maharashtra cities,” said SC Kollur, chief scientist, MPCB. “It may be a secondary pollutant arising from the reduction of other major pollutants. Industrial areas do witness such spikes but the increase for major cities comes as a surprise. We have to analyse the source.” For Mumbai, MPCB plans to study background data from the Borivli station (near the national park) to check reasons for an increase in ozone. “The station data is down due to a broken cable for a week. The data is crucial as it gives background data and human induced emissions are not present,” said Kollur. All 10 Maharashtra cities are part of the NCAP where the Centre seeks to reduce pollutant concentrations by 20-30% by 2024 with the target pollutant as particulate matter (PM2.5 and PM10). Data was compiled from state pollution control board monitoring stations over two months. The tracker is a web portal that monitors the achievement of state specific air quality targets for 122 Indian cities, and whether funds released for each city are being appropriately utilised. “Assessing how pollutants behaved during the lockdown the rise in ozone is an alert at a time when cities are already facing a health crisis. The findings should equip policy making and callsfor more studies to identify the impact of other pollutants apart from PM,” said Aarti Khosla, director, Climate Trends.A recent study by the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi and two Chinese universities also showed a 20% rise in ozone for western parts of India. The study suggested that secondary pollutants such as ozone need to be considered by NCAP. “China witnessed a similar rising trend for ozone and adopted measures to reduce the pollutant. India is already showing the indication of higher O3 when other pollutants reduce. During summer months, the Centre should consider precursors to ozone for non-attainment cities and in addition to PM, O3 has to be kept in mind while preparing action plans,” said Harsha Kota, professor, IIT-Delhi.NCAP apex committee and professor, Indian Institute of Technology-Kanpur, SN Tripathi said, “Ozone has not been a problem in India over the years barring occasional spikes, which is regularly observed abroad across cities. An increase has been observed during lockdown due to its function as a precursor to declining NOx concentration but remained below safe limits. Ozone should be considered by NCAP as a secondary pollutant. Studies show PM followed by ozone contributes to 85-90% human related adverse health impacts. The current data is giving us the opportunity to understand O3 mitigation strategy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ozone-concentration-in-maharashtra-cities-spikes-during-lockdown/story-zMuEoy8e55Zeu2VjT9fI2H.html
27-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s Bathinda town sizzles at record high of 47.5°C, hottest day in 20 years||Punjab was in the grip of a severe heat wave with Bathinda recording a record high of 47.5°C, followed by Amritsar at 43°C, Chandigarh and Jalandhar at 42°C, and Ludhiana at 40°C.As per the agro-meteorological centre of Punjab Agricultural University’s regional research centre this is the highest temperature recorded in Bathinda since 2000. The second highest temperature recorded in this period was 47.2°C on June 8, 2014. RAIN ON THE CARDS IN CHANDIGARH, LUDHIANAThe temperature in Chandigarh had touched 42°C by 2:30pm but the mercury is expected to go higher by the evening. Relief in the form of rain can be expected on Thursday.Though different stations in Punjab and Haryana experienced the heat wave, Chandigarh has escaped it so far.India Meteorological Department (IMD) director Surender Paul said western disturbances will be active in the region from May 28 and light rain up to 20mm along with gusty winds blowing at 40km/h can be expected everyday till May 30.The maximum temperature had reached 43.1°C on Tuesday, the highest this year. However, it is likely to fall back into the 30s Thursday onwards.WHAT NOT TO DOAvoid alcohol, tea, coffee and carbonated soft drinks, as they dehydrate the bodyAvoid high-protein foodDo not leave children or pets in parked vehicles or allow them to play outdoors in the afternoonAvoid direct sunlight The western disturbances will bring respite to Ludhiana residents, who can expect light to moderate rainfall on May 29 and 30, said met officials in Ludhiana. Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) head of the department of climate change and agricultural meteorology Dr Prabhjyot Kaur said the heat wave will continue for next 24 hours.She also cautioned that high velocity winds, which will blow at the speed of 30-40pm per hours are expected to hit the region before the arrival of rain. The minimum temperature in the region was 25.4°C. AMRITSAR TEMP TO DIP FROM MAY 29The temperature continued to hover around 43°C for the second consecutive day in Amritsar. The minimum temperature in the district was 26°C.However, on Thursday the maximum temperature will further dip to 35-30°C from May 29 to June 2. What to do Use oral rehydration therapy (ORS), homemade drinks like lassi, torani (rice water), lime water, buttermilkCover hats, use umbrella and wear sunglasses when outdoorsThose affected by sun stroke should be given first-aid immediately, their heads bathed with water (room temperature) and bodies wiped with wet towels to bring down body temperature before they are taken to hospitalJALANDHAR WEARS A DESERTED LOOK At 42°C, Jalandhar recorded the highest temperature on Wednesday. Met department officials say the temperature in the district will vacillate between 42°C and 44°C in the coming week. People remained captive indoors despite relaxation in lockdown due to the sweltering heat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-chandigarh-swelter-in-summer-heat-bathinda-records-hottest-day-in-20-years/story-t5oxCwVxQRxsMzsFvEu8YI.html
27-05-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal BJP chief Rajeev Bindal quits week after scam in health dept||Shimla: Exactly a week after a medical equipment purchase scam surfaced in Himachal Pradesh and led to the arrest of then health director Dr AK Gupta, state Bharatiya Janata Party chief Rajeev Bindal resigned, citing moral grounds after the BJP’s name was dragged into the controversy.In his resignation letter to BJP national president JP Nadda, who had handpicked him for the post only in January, Bindal, 55, said: “I’m the president of the state party and we all want a free and fair probe into the alleged corruption without any pressure. In view of my high moral values, I am resigning from the post.”On May 20, the state vigilance and anti-corruption bureau arrested Dr Gupta for demanding a bribe of Rs 5 lakh after an audiotape of his telephonic conversation with a Renuka-based medical equipment supplier surfaced. The vigilance has sealed bank accounts of Gupta and his relatives and recovered documents of purchases made by the health department from his house.‘PARTY IS CLEAN’With the opposition Congress demanding a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation, Bindal said, “The state government acted swiftly and arrested the officer. The probe was promptly handed over to the vigilance and anti-corruption bureau. The BJP has nothing to do with this episode. The party is clean.”The five-time legislator and former health minister said that “pointing a finger at the BJP for this incident was not only injustice but an insult to the services the state government has provided during the coronavirus pandemic”.WAS UNANIMOUS CHOICE FOR CHIEF Bindal was formally declared state BJP chief on January 18 this year at a function attended by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur.His name was announced by national BJP secretary Sunil V Deodhar in the presence of Union ministers Ramesh Pokhriyal and Anurag Thakur besides outgoing state BJP president Satpal Singh Satti, who had been at the helm for eight years.Nadda had nominated Bindal for the post, considering his organisational skills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-pradesh-bjp-chief-rajeev-bindal-quits-denies-involvement-in-health-department-scam/story-ky2lMIfonkJJSFdjehxUeO.html
27-05-2020||Mumbai||Yes Bank Fraud: Wadhawans sent to judicial custody till June 11||The special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Wednesday remanded Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL) promoters Dheeraj Wadhawan and Kapil Wadhawan to judicial custody till June 11.The brothers were arrested on May 14 by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and have been in their custody since. As their ED custody ended on Wednesday, the two were produced before the special PMLA court. After completion of 14 days in ED custody, the agency sought for their judicial custody. The two would now be lodged in one of the jails in Mumbai.The Wadhawans were arrested by the ED over money laundering charges. The agency had initiated proceedings against them based on a first information report (FIR) registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on March 7, 2020, against Yes Bank promoter Rana Kapoor and the brothers. It is alleged that between April and June 2018, Yes Bank invested Rs 3,700 crore in short-term, non-convertible debentures of DHFL and Kapoor received Rs 600 crore as kickbacks from DHFL, in the form of loan advanced to two firms, DOIT Urban Ventures (India) Private Limited and Morgan Credits Private Limited. While Kapoor’s daughters hold 100℅ stake in DOIT, Morgan Credits is controlled by his wife.The Wadhawans, however, maintained that these transactions were entered into the regular course of business. They sought pre-arrest bail, claiming that there was no fraudulent misrepresentation and no wrongful loss was caused to the bank in the transactions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/yes-bank-fraud-wadhawans-sent-to-judicial-custody-till-june-11/story-QQC1IjI0aF5ctEIPc6q3HP.html
27-05-2020||Chandigarh||Cherries abound in Kashmir but farmers find no market||Cherry trees in Kashmir are blooming with luscious fruit but despite it farmers are staring at massive losses due to limited demand amid the Covid-19 crisis.The railways have stepped in to ease farmers’ burden. Jammu and Kashmir officials said they had requested northern railways to help transport Kashmiri cherries from Amritsar.Manzoor Ahmad Mir, deputy director horticulture planning and marketing, said, “From June 1, the Northern Railways will transport 4-6 metric tons of cherries daily from Amritsar to Delhi and Mumbai. We had requested them to transport the fruits from Jammu but that did not materialize.” FARMERS DEMAND FREE MOVEMENT OF TRUCKS Farmers have demanded free movement of fruit trucks till Amritsar.Mir said, “Kashmir has produced approximately 12,000 metric tons of cherry this year. Last year, the number was around 11,700 metric tons. The Valley annually sends around 3,500-4,000 metric tons of the fruit to other states.”Despite a good produce, famers are a worried lot due to decrease in demand due to closure of markets and difficulties in transporting fruit from farms to the markets amid Covid-19 restrictions.CHERRIES NOT FETCHING A GOOD PRICE “The market is down and we are not getting a good price for cherries. I received Rs 45-50/kg this year against last year’s Rs 75-90/kg. The shops and markets here are closed,” said Manzoor Ahmad Sheikh, a farmer of Lar Ganderbal in central Kashmir.There are four types of cherries in Kashmir- Awwal Number, Double, Mishri and Makhmali. The latter two are exported to other states.“This year we were hoping to get a profit from the cherry crop as the apple produce was affected due to bad weather during flowering. Our livelihood and the education of our children are dependent on this. If something is not done immediately our families will suffer,” Sheikh said. FRUIT MAY GO BAD Apart from the low demand, there are difficulties in transporting the fruit even inside the state triggering fears that the fruit will go bad if not harvested immediately.“Cherries are extremely perishable with a very brief shelf-life. We are unable to transport fruit as there are no movement passes. Those with passes are alos not able to move freely due to the lockdown,” said Pardeep Singh, whose family owns a farm in north Kashmir’s Baramulla.MATTER TAKEN UP WITH DIVISIONAL COMMISSIONER Deputy director Manzoor Mir said they had taken up the matter with the Kashmir divisional commissioner. “We have requested the divisional commissioner to prioritise fruit transportation and to ensure fruit trucks do not face any hindrance,” he said.Cherry are produced on an estimated 2,713 hectares of land in Kashmir and over the years the production has been increasing. From 8,282 metric tons in 2016-17, production increased to 11,280 metric tons in 2017-18 and to 11,789 in 2018-19.Not only are the farmers suffering because of low demand and difficulty in transportation, they are also facing logistical issues. NO PACKAGING MATERIAL “Fruit is ready but there are no cardboard boxes in the market to pack the fruit. Industries are closed so there is scarcity of boxes,” said Mudasir Ahmad Lone, a farmer from Baramulla.“The government should buy some fruit themselves and open industries and mandis,” he said.A senior official at the horticulture department, requesting anonymity, said they had already submitted proposals to the government for opening cherry processing industries.“We have around 25 cherry processing food units for canning of fruit. We have asked the government to provide transportation and packing to farmers besides permission for opening these units. The proposal for providing minimum support price to farmers was not passed. Let’s see what happens as time is running out,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cherries-abound-in-kashmir-but-farmers-find-no-markets/story-dnTH3xUsJqQpnpaLP1Vb2K.html
27-05-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka CM has betrayed people by not fulfilling 1,610 crore Covid-19 package promise: Siddaramaiah||Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Wednesday hit out at Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa-led Karnataka government for allegedly “betraying” the people by not fulfilling its Rs 1,610 crore Covid-19 package promise. Taking a dig at Yediyurappa over the matter, the Congress leader tweeted, “Chief Minister of Karnataka BS Yediyurappa has betrayed people by not fulfilling his Rs 1,610 crore package promise. He seems to be following his @BJP4India leader @PMOIndia @narendramodi.”“Crisis and vulnerability should not be misused for political gains and BJP for India is insensitive towards the same,” the former Karnataka Chief Minister said. On May 6, Yediyurappa had urged migrant workers to stay back as construction activities have resumed and announced a Rs 1,610 crores Covid-19 financial package for the state.“A package of Rs 1,610 crores will be released as Covid-19 financial relief. One time compensation of Rs 5,000 will be given to 2,30,000 barbers and 7,75,000 drivers,” the Chief Minister said. Referring to media reports, Siddarmiah cornered the state government for asking the licence to release funds for unorganised sector workers. “How can we expect washermen and other unorganised sector workers to have licence for their work?” he asked.It looks like Karnataka Chief Minister is very far from reality, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-cm-has-betrayed-people-by-not-fulfilling-1-610-crore-covid-19-package-promise-siddaramaiah/story-kQTC5VVq9nyJda9RRr3OuN.html
27-05-2020||Bangalore||Covid-19 cases in Karnataka near 2,500-mark, death toll at 45||A 69-year-old woman from Yadgiri became the 45th Covid-19 related fatality in Karnataka, where 122 fresh cases have been reported, taking the total number of infections in the state to 2,405, the health department said on Wednesday.With 45 deaths and 762 discharges, there are 1,596 active coronavirus cases in the state, the department said in its mid-day bulletin.It said, the deceased woman, a returnee from Maharashtra was brought dead to designated hospital in Yadgiri on May 20 and tested positive for Covid-19.Fourteen patients have been discharged in the state so far on Wednesday.Of the 122 new cases, 108 are returnees from neighbouring Maharashtra, three from Tamil Nadu, and one each from Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala and Delhi. While two are returnees from foreign countries- one each from UAE and Nepal. Remaining four cases are contact of patients earlier tested positive. Among the districts where new cases were reported, Kalaburagi accounted for 28, Yadgiri 16, Hassan 15, Bidar 13, Dakshina Kannada 11, Udupi 9, Bengaluru Urban 6, five each from Uttara Kannada and Raichur, Belagavi 4, Chikkamagaluru 3, two each from Bengaluru Rural and Vijayapura, and one each from Ballari, Mandya and Tumakuru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-near-2-500-mark-death-toll-at-45/story-8qyeJtFsf2dN8D8241v60K.html
27-05-2020||Kolkata||Bengal govt to run buses on 40 routes as more offices start functioning||The West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC) has decided to run buses on 40 routes from Wednesday, as more government and private offices start functioning amid the coronavirus lockdown, an official said.The buses, including air-conditioned ones, would run on various routes across the city as well as in the suburbs and districts from 7 am to 7 pm, a notification issued by the managing director of WBTC said. The number of passengers would depend on the bus size, health and safety norms, it said. The WBTC had been operating skeletal bus services during the lockdown period on some popular routes for emergency purposes and health workers. As offices started to reopen with reduced staff, the services were increased to 15 routes in the city to facilitate movement of commuters, officials said. State government buses will also ply on some routes to and from Nadia, South 24 Parganas and North 24 Parganas districts from Wednesday, the notification said. Private bus operators have not resumed services after their demand for increasing fares were not met by the West Bengal government.Autorickshaw operators, too, are undecided about recommencing operations with only two passengers as mandated by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-govt-to-run-buses-on-40-routes-as-more-offices-start-functioning/story-YFJjH7LcVC7MUzy3OLARHJ.html
27-05-2020||Delhi||Covid death toll in Delhi mounts to 303 ; highest spike of 792 cases||The coronavirus death toll in Delhi climbed to 303, while 792 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported on Wednesday, the highest single-day spike in the city, authorities said.The previous highest spike in fresh cases -- 660 -- was recorded on May 22.This is the first time in Delhi that over 700 Covid-19 cases have been reported in a day.In a bulletin issued on Wednesday, the Delhi health department said, the death toll from coronavirus infection has risen to 303, and the total number of cases mounted to 15,257.It, however, added that the cumulative death figures refers to fatalities where primary cause of death was found to be COVID-19, as per the report of the Death Audit Committee on the basis of case sheets received from various hospitals.On Tuesday, the total number of cases stood at 14,465, including 288 deaths.  With 792 fresh cases, the total number of coronavirus cases in Delhi has climbed to 15,257.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-death-toll-in-delhi-mounts-to-303-highest-spike-of-792-cases/story-cnLM1g4d2g86A7nJEtIz5N.html
27-05-2020||Kolkata||Cyclone Amphan: Drinking water, electricity restored in most parts of Kolkata||Drinking water and electricity was restored in most parts of Kolkata on Wednesday, a week after a cyclonic storm tore through the state, decimating houses, uprooting trees and snapping power cables.There was no report of fresh protest in any part of the city on Wednesday, Kolkata Police sources said.However, in Barasat and Duttapukur area of North 24 Parganas district, hundreds of people blocked the Jessore Road to protest against non-resumption of power by the West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd (WBSEDCL), police said.Also read: TMC MLA injured in clashes between people in Kolkata’s Metiabruz areaPrivate power utility, CESC Ltd, which supplies power to most parts of the metropolis claimed that 95 per cent of 33 lakh consumers have been reconnected to power.“We are committed to work on a war footing to ensure normalcy. Of 33 lakh consumers, 32 lakh have been connected. Teams are working round-the-clock. You have been very patient. We seek your cooperation as we work 24/7 to restore normalcy,” the CESC tweeted.Meanwhile, there were reports of power not yet restored in some parts of the city like Behala.A senior official of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) said, “Our job is almost complete. Now the issue of power restoration is being looked into by CESC. They have assured us that power would be restored in remaining areas soon”. In some pockets of the city, KMC personnel assisted by other agencies and a team from Odisha were busy clearing the roads even as vehicular movement resumed in most areas, the official said.Also read: Infighting in Bengal Trinamool Congress over Cyclone Amphan relief work, Opposition BJP says proves its chargeTrinamool Congress legislator Abdul Khaleque Molla and four others were injured on Tuesday while they were trying to persuade a group of people protesting over disruption of electricity. The protest was held by residents of Kanchantala under Nadial police station in the port area of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/cyclone-amphan-drinking-water-electricity-restored-in-most-parts-of-kolkata/story-SLtoOf3BCLL3sGBujyMzuI.html
27-05-2020||Delhi||Video clip claims no arrangements on ground for Covid-19 patients: HC seeks Centre, Delhi govt stand||Taking note of a video clipping on social media of a man who had to run from pillar to post to get his mother hospitalised after testing positive for Covid-19, the Delhi High Court has directed the Centre and the AAP government to place before it arrangements made to deal with such patients.Observing that the video “raises serious issues of public concern in the present day context”, a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar issued several directions, including making effective the helplines for reporting coronavirus cases, assessing their adequacy to deal with the increasing call traffic and providing ambulance facility to pick up patients.It directed the two governments to place before it the status of functional and responsive helpline numbers being operated by them. It also appointed an amicus curiae to look into the grievances raised in the video clipping.“The amicus curiae shall also call the helpline numbers and report with regard to their effectiveness in providing help to the callers,” the bench said.   The court, which took suo motu cognisance of the clipping, also directed the Delhi government and the Centre to respond to the grievances narrated by the man -- Dharmendra Bhardwaj -- who has alleged in the video that “tall claims” of both the governments regarding arrangements for Covid-19 patients “are far from true on the ground”.He said his mother was admitted in a private hospital on May 19 and she tested positive for Covid-19 on May 21.Thereafter, the private hospital asked him to arrange for a ventilator and bed in some other hospital, he has claimed and added that he went to several hospitals, but to no avail.Even the helpline numbers publicised by the Delhi government and the Centre were non-responsive, Bhardwaj has alleged in the video which has been taken on record by the high court.Taking note of his grievances, the bench observed that a person, who or whose family or friend is found Covid-19 positive, should be able to call the helplines to not only report such occurrence, but to also seek guidance and assistance with regard to the hospitals to which such patient may be taken – if hospitalisation is necessary keeping in view of the condition of the patient.  “The helplines should render meaningful and effective help to the callers. If the experience of Dharmendra Bhardwaj is anything to go by, it appears, that this aspect has not been adequately addressed by the respondents (Centre and Delhi government),” the court said.It directed them to “assess the adequacy of the helpline capacity and state whether the same is sufficient to deal with the present call traffic and the traffic expected in the foreseeable future, keeping in view the continuous rise in the number of cases being reported each day”.   The bench was also of the view, “the helpline numbers of the GNCTD should also provide guidance and information to the caller as to which hospital has beds available for treatment of serious Covid-19 patients – both in Government and Private Hospitals, particularly in the proximity of the caller patient’s location.  “The capacity created to deal with calls made on the helpline numbers; the nature of assistance rendered, and the log maintained for the same, if any, should also be placed before the Court,” it said.The bench further directed the Delhi government to consider providing ambulance facility for pickup of Covid-19 serious patients for hospitalisation, once a caller reports a serious case which appears to require hospitalisation looking to the condition reported.  During the hearing, Delhi government standing counsel (criminal) Rahul Mehra told the bench that there were around 10 helpline numbers and admitted that they were “found not to be functioning efficiently and instructions have been issued to set the system in order”.  He told the court that the same would be done within the next couple of days. Mehra also informed the bench that a mobile application is under development to give live updates of the hospital beds available in Delhi government hospitals and private hospitals, and other related information.He told the court that the mobile application would be launched in the next couple of days. “We direct the Central Government, as well as the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi, to file their status reports on all the aspects mentioned in the said video recording and those taken note of by us, before the next date of hearing,” the court said. It directed the registry to place the matter on June 3 before the bench headed by the Chief Justice as it deals with PILs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/video-clip-claims-no-arrangements-on-ground-for-covid-19-patients-hc-seeks-centre-delhi-govt-stand/story-Q7EGfWNVVPvBjBBeYWh1fJ.html
27-05-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka to open religious places after May 31: CM Yediyurappa||Karnataka is likely to allow religious places to open in the state after May 31, when the fourth phase of the Covid-19 lockdown is scheduled to end, reports said on Wednesday.Temples, mosques, churches and other religious institutions have been shut for the last two months due to the coronavirus disease-induced lockdown across the country.“We are going to open temples, mosques and churches in the state after May 31,” Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Yediyurappa, however, added that they will wait for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s decision over their re-opening.State minister Kota Srinivas Poojary had said on Tuesday that temples in the state will be opened for public from June 1.“We have had discussions with the chief minister regarding Muzrai department, during which it was decided to open temples from June 1,” Poojary, the minister for Hindu religious institutions and charitable endowments (Muzrai), had said.Poojary, however, had said that even as temples will be opened to offer prayers and daily rituals, temple fairs and events will not be permitted.Most restrictions have been relaxed in lockdown 4.0 with public transport, shops and the movement of people allowed across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/karnataka/karnataka-to-open-religious-places-after-may-31/story-CYkBdg4e7Ti9qWU06FpBGI.html
27-05-2020||Chandigarh||Amid Covid-19 lockdown, retail liquor vends sold for Rs 35.52 crore in Himachal||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh principal secretary, excise and taxation, Sanjay Kundu said here on Wednesday that despite the lockdown and recession due to the Covid-19 pandemic in the state, retail liquor vends that were left out of the auction earlier in Shimla, Nurpur, Kangra and Sirmaur zones have been sold for Rs 35.52 crore.He said that against the retail liquor vend business of Rs 1,190 crore, the excise and taxation department has been able to sell the business for Rs 1,180 crore in the state.“Except Wednesday’s auctions, the rest of the business has been sold at full value. Liquor vends have been sold for the first time without negotiation on renewal tender-cum-auction basis,” Kundu said. Last year, the retail liquor business was worth Rs 1,085 crore and after negotiation, the price went down to Rs 126 crore and net business was Rs 959 crore. He said that against Rs 959 crore last year, this year the business was sold for Rs 1,180 crore.Kundu said that the liquor vends in Shimla zone have been sold for Rs 2.3 crore, in Nurpur for Rs 6.03 crore, in Kangra for Rs 4.8 crore and in Sirmaur for Rs 22.39 crore. With this, the excise and taxation department has sold all retail liquor vends in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-covid-19-lockdown-retail-liquor-vends-sold-for-rs-35-52-crore-in-himachal/story-e89QF07N3WoJtmWH1Ny5YO.html
27-05-2020||Jaipur||Two more Covid-19 deaths in Rajasthan; number of infections rise to 7,645||Rajasthan on Wednesday recorded two Covid-19 deaths and 109 new cases of the virus, an official said.The number of cases in the state now stands at 7,645 and fatalities at 172.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Two deaths have occurred in Jaipur and as many as 109 fresh cases were reported in the state,” additional chief secretary (health), Rohit Kumar Singh, said.Of the 109 fresh cases, Jhalawar recorded 64 cases followed by 16 in Kota, 12 in Nagaur, six each in Jaipur and Bharatpur, two in Jhunjhunu and one each in Bikaner and Dausa, officials said.A total of 3,773 people have been discharged. There are 3,180 active cases in the state, they said.Jaipur has recorded maximum 83 deaths and 1,866 positive cases in the state followed by 17 deaths and 1,278 cases in Jodhpur.Of the total positive cases in the state, there are 2,029 migrants who had returned to Rajasthan from other states.The state is under lockdown since March 22 and massive screening and search is underway to trace the contagion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/two-more-covid-19-deaths-in-rajasthan-number-of-infections-rise-to-7-645/story-cDpYNpFlPHyCrKPubN7MkN.html
27-05-2020||Pune||14 SRPF jawans test positive for coronavirus in Pune||Fourteen State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) jawans based in Pune have tested positive for coronavirus, a senior official said on Tuesday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage Two companies from Pune’s Group II of the SRPF were posted in Mumbai and they recently returned to the headquarters here, he said.“Swab samples of jawans from the two companies were taken. On Tuesday, the reports of 14 jawans came out positive,” he said.With this, number of positive cases in SRPF’s Pune unit has reached 70, 40 of whom have recovered, said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/14-srpf-jawans-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-pune/story-EzZ3qAY5EKFHNncKcffrPJ.html
27-05-2020||Kolkata||TMC MLA injured in clashes between people in Kolkata’s Metiabruz area||Trinamool MLA Abdul Khalek Mollah sustained injuries as clashes erupted between people from two slums in Metiabruz area here over electricity supply which has been affected following Cyclone Amphan. The dispute between the people of two slums erupted on Tuesday when power was restored in one of the slums while another remained bereft of it. The locals blocked the road in protest against the non-availability of power in their area for the past six days. When the MLA of Metiabruz arrived in his constituency to pacify the protestors, the angry crowd refused to hear him and demanded immediate power supply. Police tried to disperse the crowd as bricks were hurled from both sides. One of the brick hit MLA’s head. The MLA was found bleeding profusely and he was taken to a private hospital. The police had to resort to lathi-charge and lob tear gas shells to control the crowd. Later the situation was stabilised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/tmc-mla-injured-in-clashes-between-people-in-kolkata-s-metiabruz-area/story-izx43g8JtZ1Cj77ZkQgvBL.html
27-05-2020||Chandigarh||Delhi man tests positive for Covid-19 in Mohali||A 32-year-old banker from Delhi tested positive for Covid-19 in Punjab’s Mohali district on Wednesday. Working in Delhi for the past two years, the man had come to his home town Mohali on May 22. He was admitted to the local civil hospital after he exhibited influenza-like symptoms and was sampled on May 24.Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said as the patient is a Delhi resident, his case will not be included in the Mohali district count. “The patient has been shifted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur and the Delhi health department has been informed. However, we will be taking samples of his 11 family members with whom he came in contact here. In case their reports turn out to be positive, they will be included in the Mohali count,” he said.Mohali has recorded 106 Covid-19 cases. With 102 people being discharged and three fatalities, the district has only one active case right now — a Nayagaon woman who tested positive on May 25, two days after delivering a child at Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/32-year-old-man-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-mohali-count-touches-107/story-z0Qbuf9ZAZWc38wC5mUYUP.html
27-05-2020||Dehradun||In a first, IMA to hold passing out parade without family of officers||The Indian Military Academy (IMA) in Uttarakhand’s Dehradun will hold the passing out parade of its gentleman cadets for spring term without their family members due to the coronavirus pandemic, officials said on Wednesday. Lieutenant Colonel Amit Dagar, IMA’s spokesperson, said the decision was taken “to ensure the health safety of the GCs and the staff” of the academy, one of the premier training institutes of Indian Army officers. “The PoP for the spring term will be held on June 13. However, this time the family members and the dear ones of the passing out GCs would not be able to attend the event at the academy due to the pandemic. This would likely be for the first time in our academy’s tradition,” Lt Col Dagar said.He said the institute will try that the event is covered as much as possible in real time. “Because this time the family members would not be attending the event, we would put in maximum efforts to ensure that it is covered extensively in real-time through media so that they could witness their dear ones gloriously passing out as officers of Indian Army,” the spokesperson said. The number of those who will join the parade will be “completely ascertained in a few days along with the decision of whom to invite as the reviewing officer of POP.”Before this, the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) had conducted an e-passing out parade (e-PoP) for the first time in its history for 42 directly appointed gazetted officers, who joined the ceremony wearing masks and gloves, in April.The newly-inducted officers were at the force’s academy at Kadarpur in Haryana’s Gurugram for the webinar passing out parade held amid the Covid-19 lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/in-a-first-ima-to-hold-passing-out-parade-without-family-of-officers/story-orwbdzTJupyUHDOC5I5pEP.html
27-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet to meet today as impasse over CS prevails||Amid continued deadlock over the ministers’ demand for removal of the chief secretary, all eyes will be on the Punjab cabinet meeting scheduled to be held here at 3pm on Wednesday.The meeting has been convened to discuss the post-Lockdown 4.0 strategy, state finances and the hike allowed by the centre in the state’s borrowing limit, but the ongoing row between senior cabinet ministers and chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh is expected to be the hot topic of discussion.In the last cabinet meeting on May 11, the ministers had “unanimously” decided to boycott the chief secretary due to his “rude behaviour” with some of them, giving an ultimatum to chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to remove the IAS officer from the top bureaucratic position or they will not attend cabinet meetings in which he is present.Though Amarinder took the luncheon diplomacy route and held meetings with cabinet ministers Manpreet Singh Badal, Charanjit Singh Channi and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and some other MLAs in the past one week, the deadlock appeared to be unresolved. Manpreet and Channi told the chief minister on Monday to call the cabinet meeting and discuss the issue with all the ministers.The notice for the cabinet meeting was issued by the chief secretary on Monday evening. However, it is not clear whether the CS would attend the cabinet meeting as he had taken half day’s leave and skipped the May 11 meeting which was conducted by additional chief secretary, home, Satish Chandra in his absence.Though the ministers had announced the officer’s boycott together, three of them – health minister Balbir Sidhu, medical education minister OP Soni and food minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu – had later attended a Covid-19 meeting in which the chief secretary was also present. Manpreet, Randhawa and Channi did not respond to calls or text messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-cabinet-to-meet-today-as-impasse-over-cs-prevails/story-hRrhZoCIQOgkVWVipXlj7L.html
27-05-2020||Lucknow||‘Parks can be opened during morning’: UP CM Yogi Adityanath directs authorities||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed that parks across the state can be opened during morning time, State Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthi said on Tuesday.Addressing a press conference here, Awasthi said, “CM Yogi Adityanath has directed that parks across the state can be opened during morning time. So, today itself a decision will be taken on timings for the opening of parks. Concerned authorities will ensure that social distancing norms are strictly followed at parks.”Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAdityanath has also said that the patrolling should be strengthened at all important places including financial and industrial institutions. He has also said that the taxis should be allowed with two passengers and one driver at the airport,” Awasthi added.Awasthi further said that around 17 lakh people have returned to Uttar Pradesh in more than 1265 trains. “Around 17,00,728 people in more than 1265 trains have returned from different states till 2 pm today,” said Additional Chief Secretary Awasthi.A total of 229 new Covid-19 positive cases have been reported in the state, taking the total number of cases in the state to 6724, said Directorate of Health Service, Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday.(The story has been published from a wire feed without any modifications to the text, only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/parks-can-be-opened-during-morning-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-directs-authorities/story-4zIL5wjLbBuo6zYJ9blbZP.html
27-05-2020||Lucknow||UP: With 229 new Covid-19 positive cases, count reaches 6,724||A total of 229 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 6,724, according to the Directorate of Health Services, Uttar Pradesh.According to a media bulletin issued by the Directorate of Health Services, the death toll due to Covid-19 stands at 177, and 2,284 patients have recovered so far after receiving treatment in the state.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe bulletin further informed that the cumulative number of persons under observation stands at 3,62,729. There are 862 active hotspots/containment zones in the state.The results of 1,574 samples are awaited, the bulletin informed.Earlier today, with 6,535 more coronavirus cases having been reported in India in the last 24 hours, the Covid-19 count in the country rose to 1,45,380, according to the MoHFW. (The story has been published from a wire feed without any modifications to the text, only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-with-229-new-covid-19-positive-cases-count-reaches-6-724/story-o2zVpaHG4ueDzUztDKWUpK.html
27-05-2020||Jaipur||Gehlot orders impact study of measures taken to contain Covid-19||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday directed officials to conduct impact study of measures taken to contain the novel coronavirus in all the districts. Chairing a review meeting, Gehlot said the study would be helpful in chalking out future action plan to handle the Covid-19 pandemic.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage Gehlot said the state government did not leave any stone unturned to control the spread of the deadly infection. He said some experts had opined that the number of cases might rise in the coming days, therefore, the level of alertness should remain the same in the state. The chief minister asked the officials to ensure food and other facilities at quarantine centres in the state. Chief Secretary D B Gupta informed that three task forces of officials had been formed for preparing action plans for departments related with MSME, agriculture and construction. The task forces will submit their reports by June 5. Additional Chief Secretary Veenu Gupta said 1,306 cases of breaking quarantine protocol had been reported so far and 604 of them were sent to institutional quarantine from home quarantine. Steps like penalties or registration of FIR was taken on 702 people. Health Minister Raghu Sharma and other senior officials were present in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/gehlot-orders-impact-study-of-measures-taken-to-contain-covid-19/story-s0VjRXZkznAzqpzaDUSekN.html
27-05-2020||Jaipur||Man attempts to commit suicide near Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot’s residence||A man allegedly tried to commit suicide by consuming poison near Rajasthan Chief Minister’s residence on Tuesday, said Assistant Commissioner of Police, Ashok Gupta.“A man attempted to commit suicide by consuming poison near the resident of Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday. Police rushed him to the hospital and now he is out of danger,” the police officer said.“The man had left a note saying he was receiving threats. The police are investigating the matter,” the ACP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/man-attempts-to-commit-suicide-near-rajasthan-cm-s-residence/story-ezMrcHJezw4qRwEm9OwmQP.html
27-05-2020||Lucknow||MNNIT develops mobile app to watch corona spread||A new mobile application, developed by Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology (MNNIT)-Allahabad for enabling district administration and corona control room to track spread of Covid-19 virus and suspected corona patients more effectively, was formally launched on Tuesday. Named ‘AMRIT’ (Assessment, Monitoring, Reporting and Intelligent Tracking), this mobile app would help chemist shops, medical practitioners and other organisations submit information about suspected corona patients easily to the administration or corona control rooms.The district magistrate Bhanu Chandra Goswami formally launched this app. “Administration was in touch with MNNIT for the last few days to develop the app which would help in preventing community level spread of COVID-19 infections”, said the DM. Earlier CMO Dr GS Bajpai had called representatives of Allahabad Medical Association (AMA), chemists shops and nursing homes owners to gather feedback for customising the app. ““We are hopeful that AMRIT app will be helpful to administration in tracking suspected corona patients with the support of nursing homes, drug dealers and ASHA workers”, said the CMO.The app would keep a track of people who are purchasing over-the-counter medicines for suppressing symptoms like cough, cold fever and unknowingly spreading the infection to those who are coming in their contact.The app is designed and developed by a team of faculty members of MNNIT including Ashutosh, Ambak, Sameer, NK Singh, Prof Shivesh Sharma, Prof Geetika, Vikalp Singh, Himanshu Kashyap and director of MNNIT Prof Rajeev Tripathi.The admin panel of the app will keep record and information about all the registered patients or customers, chemist shops, medical practitioners and other organisations like government offices, hospitals, nursing homes etc. The app also has ASHA workers registration feature and has been designed to help ASHA workers/ anganwadi workers in easily submitting the information to control room.“Whenever a patient with cough-cold-fever-breathing problem visits a clinic or purchases drugs, related to these symptoms, all the information like name, mobile number, address, date and time of prescription or sale will be sent directly to corona control room”, informed Prof Tripathi. The app has facility to directly scan the QR code from patient’s mobile and upload prescription which will save time in comparison to entering the details manually, however manual entry option is also there. The administration can track such suspected corona patients easily and testing can be performed which will save time and resources, he added. The app has been designed to facilitate door to door survey by health workers where they can easily send information about suspected corona patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/mnnit-develops-mobile-app-to-watch-corona-spread/story-hfqfCq5pQVLDQOKjfo5sMN.html
27-05-2020||Education||BSEB announces Bihar Board class 10th results, 80.59 % students pass, full details here||Himanshu Raj of Janta High School, Rohtas, topped the matriculation exam conducted by the Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) this year.State education minister Krishna Nandan Verma declared the matriculation result on Tuesday, in the presence of additional chief secretary R K Mahajan and BSEB chairman Anand Kishor. Topper Raj has scored 96.20 % by obtaining 481 marks out of 500. While Durgesh Kumar of S K High School, Samastipur bagged the second rank by scoring 96% . On the other hand, Shubham Kumar, Rajveer and Juli Kumari have shared the third rank by scoring 95.6% each.Follow Bihar Board 10th Result Live Updates hereThe overall pass percentage this year is 80.59%, which is 0.14 % less than the previous year’s score of 80.73%.A total of 41 students have made it to top 10 list including 31 boys and 10 girls.Out of 14,94,071 students who appeared for the matriculation exam this year, 7,29,213 boys and 7,64,858 girls passed.While 4,03,392 students secured first division, 5,24,217 secured second division and 2,75,402 got third division. The passing percentage of boys’ remained higher than girls’ by 0.14 percent.Minister Verma praised BSEB for conducting and declaring matriculation and intermediate examination before any other education board in the country. BSEB chairman Anand Kishor attributed the better planning and team work of board members behind declaring results on time.Bihar Board 10th Result out: Check Live Updates hereKishor said, “The board carried out physical verification of toppers’ copies followed by their interview by expert through video call to double check merit of toppers.”More than 15 lakh students had filled the form to write matric examination which was conducted by BSEB from February 17 to February 24 spread across 1,368 exam centres in the state.Check Bihar Board 10th Result 2020 at HT Result portalResult at a glance:Students enrolled-15,29,393Students appeared- 14,94,071Pass percentage- 80.59%Boys’ pass percentage- 80.98%Girls’ pass percentage-80.20%No. of students in 1st division- 4,03,392No. of students in 2nd division- 5,24,217No. of students in 3rd division- 2,75,402Pending results: 04Passing percentage of last four years:2017: 50.12 %2018: 69.89%2019: 80.732020: 80.59%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/bseb-announces-bihar-board-class-10th-results-80-59-students-pass-full-details-here/story-vEryfSoYCdIQd75ZH5P4iJ.html
27-05-2020||Bhopal||Farmers in MP’s Jabalpur arrange water tankers, chemicals against locust attack||Farmers in Madhya Pradesh’s Jabalpur have arranged water tankers and chemicals for spraying in a bid to drive away locusts from attacking their farms.“Locust swarms can be repelled by making loud sounds and spraying. All such arrangements have been made in the district, if locust swarms attack we will be ready for it,” said Bharat Yadav, Jabalpur District Magistrate.“Farmers have arranged water tankers and chemicals for spraying as advised by the agricultural department,” added Yadav.Meanwhile, farmers in Budhni and Nasrullaganj areas of Madhya Pradesh’s Sehore district have been beating utensils in a bid to drive away locusts. Disinfectants are also being sprinkled on trees and crops to protect them from locusts in these areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/farmers-in-mp-s-jabalpur-arrange-water-tankers-chemicals-against-locust-attack/story-GrUWyu0S8f71a9nTtiR1lI.html
27-05-2020||Lucknow||Lady teacher gets clean chit in Pak glorification case||Police gave clean chit to a Muslim lady teacher, who was accused of glorifying Pakistan through her online teaching content, and said she posted the objectionable content owing to human mistake. The school teacher while teaching students online gave examples of proper noun like ‘I will join Pakistan army’, ‘Pakistan is our dear home land’ and ‘Rashid Minhas (Pak plilot) was a brave soldier’ but she emerged unscathed in the police investigation on Sunday as the probe found that she did it due to human mistake.The school teacher, Shadab Khan, a resident of Rahmat Nagar, was in the eye of the storm for sharing the controversial content on the school’s WhatsApp group, created for teaching students during the coronavirus-triggered lockdown, prompting netizens to call her ‘desh drohi’ or ‘anti national’. However, the teacher quickly clarified and posted a written apology for the ‘human mistake’.The teacher, while searching example of proper noun on Google, had found the content. She subsequently copied it and pasted it in the original form and forwarded it to her husband who converted it in PDF file and sent it back to her for sharing it with students in the WhatsApp group.In haste, the couple did not even bother to check the objectionable content, inviting anger of parents who complained it to the school authorities. The school authorities in turn lodged a written a complaint with police and also suspended the teacher beside serving her a show cause notice with seven days time to respond. A BJP leader also briefed media persons on the matter.On Sunday, the teacher along with her husband was called to Gorakhnath police station by CO Praveen Singh who with the help of cyber team got their mobile phones checked and recorded the statement of teacher only to find that the act was not intentional and was human mistake.“It has been found that carelessness on the part of teacher and human mistake led to the incident. As a teacher she should have been more alert.” CO Praveen Singh said.Teacher Shadab said, “I have tendered apologies before students who are like my children and also to the parents and school administration. It all happened just by mistake. However, if any evidence surfaces against me, I am ready to face any action. Hang me if I am guilty. I am an Indian and will die as Indian.”After she was given clean chit, local people and also those from Hindu community came out in support of women. They also demanded that her suspension should also be revoked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lady-teacher-gets-clean-chit-in-pak-glorification-case/story-IHOByPUIwPUHZCh35fkuBL.html
27-05-2020||Lucknow||As curbs ease and life gets normal, air quality is back to ‘worst’||At least four Uttar Pradesh cities recorded the ‘worst air quality’ in the country, days after life started limping back to normal after lockdown curbs were eased by the government, claimed experts.Ghaziabad, Greater Noida, Meerut and Bulandshahr recorded ‘poor’ air quality since May 24, according to the data released by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).All these places were among top five cities with worst air quality across the state.Bulandshahr recorded an AQI of 248 on Monday and was the second most polluted city.Muzzafarnagar, the other city in West UP, also recorded poor air quality. On Tuesday, the AQI of these places was recorded close to the ‘poor’ category.“The current AQI reflects on the increase in human activities like construction, vehicular movement and industrial work that affects the quality of air. Exposure to poor air quality for longer duration can lead to breathing discomfort,” said senior environmentalist Pramod Kamble. “We are experiencing the phase with the best air quality of the century,” he added. “The AQI will turn worse in coming days as more activities resume,” he addedThe depleting air quality has ended the longest streak of good air that Uttar Pradesh experienced in recent times during lockdown.Uttar Pradesh experienced the cleanest air of the century during the lockdown period caused by all time low vehicular movement, suspended industrial work and halt on construction activities.The state capital also recorded AQI as low as 70 during this period which reflected in the improved visibility of the city’s skyline.“One could see a highrise complex on Gomti Nagar Extension and Aliganj from Hazratganj. One can see the iconic clock tower in Thakurganj from almost five kilometers away. People who go out for a morning walk also claimed to experience better and cleaner air outside.“The air outside is light and cleaner. Breathing the clean air makes one lively,” said Dharampal Singh, a retired army veteran who goes out for a morning walk religiously.The AQI of Lucknow was recorded above 150 in the last few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/as-curbs-ease-and-life-gets-normal-air-quality-is-back-to-worst/story-u9X8WNjNdJo3Cgtcyhih0N.html
27-05-2020||Patna||Lockdown 4.0: Maharashtra can send as many Shramik trains as required, says Bihar Chief Secy||Chief Secretary Deepak Kumar on Tuesday said that the Maharashtra government can send as many trains as required with migrants from Bihar.He said that Maharashtra has informed the Bihar government about 24 trains.According to Indian Railways, as many as 3,274 Shramik special trains have been run till May 25, carrying 44 lakh passengers to their home states. On May 25, 223 Shramik specials ferried 2.8 lakh passengers.The Railways is running the special trains after the Centre granted permission for movement of stranded citizens including migrants labourers, workers, students, tourists to return to their native towns due to coronavirus-induced lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/lockdown-4-0-maharashtra-can-send-as-many-shramik-trains-as-required-says-bihar-chief-secy/story-OjoL2WynGn0rotDqhNRO1K.html
27-05-2020||Lucknow||34-year-old Lucknow resident living with HIV beats Covid-19 in six days||A 34-year-old man living with HIV/AIDS was declared coronavirus free after six days of treatment at the King George’s Medical University (KGMU). He was discharged on Monday evening.The patient has been advised home quarantine for 14 days and asked to come for follow up after that, said doctors.“The man was returning to his native place in Gonda from New Delhi when he met with a road accident and sustained severe head injury. When he was admitted, the head injury was so severe that he lost control over himself,” said Prof MLB Bhatt, vice-chancellor, KGMU, in a press statement.He also tested positive for coronavirus and told doctors he was having medicines for HIV. “In the first-of-its-kind case, we could complete his treatment in six days. The patient has been discharged from the Infectious Disease Hospital (IDH), where we treat coronavirus patients,” said Bhatt.“We treated the patient maintaining protocol,” said Dr D Himanshu, senior faculty, medicine department, who is treating Covid-19 patients.The man was discharged after two consecutive test reports came negative in 24 hours time.“The recovery is satisfactory for us as we could treat him and declare him infection free in six days. This also shows dedication by our medical team,” said added Bhatt. “Among coronavirus patients admitted with co-morbidity, we had discharged one who was earlier treated for cancer at our institute. There are a number of others with diabetes or chronic respiratory illness we treated and discharged,” said Prof SN Sankhwar, chief medical superintendent, KGMU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-living-with-hiv-beats-covid-19-in-six-days/story-e9Dc4LperMiiKTzVC37onN.html
27-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Covid-19 doubling rate now 14 days, death rate falls||The number of Covid-19 patients in Maharashtra are now doubling over a period of 14 days unlike every three days earlier and the death rate has been brought down to 3.25 per cent from 7.6 per cent in April, Chief Secretary Ajoy Mehta said on Tuesday.“Success has been achieved in increasing the period over which the number of Covid-19 patients doubled in the state to 14 days from earlier 3 days,” Mehta told reporters during a press conference held online.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageOn Tuesday, the death toll due to Covid-19 in the state rose to 1,792 while the tally of coronavirus cases reached 54,758.He was accompanied by principal secretary of health department Pradeep Vyas and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) Commissioner IS Chahal during the briefing.Mehta said that 75,000 beds have been kept ready in Mumbai, which has emerged as the hotspot of the disease, and “Chase The Virus” mission is being implemented for contact tracing in the country’s financial capital.Also read: Political tussle intensifies in worst-affected MaharashtraThe number of tests in Maharashtra is going up, Mehta said and added 27 new laboratories will be operational in the state.At present, 72 laboratories are operational in Maharashtra.He said that there are 16,000 surveillance squads in the state and 66 lakh people have been surveyed till now.He also claimed that the government laid stress on contact tracing to break the chain of coronavirus transmission.Meanwhile, Vyas said 2.70 lakh isolation beds are available for patients.He said that 20 per cent of the patients in the state need oxygen and 10 per cent need the intensive care units.“There are three thousand ventilators available in the state and 8,400 beds in the ICU. 95 per cent of the patients in the state are in municipal corporation areas and of these, 70 per cent are from MMR,” he added.Chahal said that the BMC is taking steps to bring down the death rate due to the Covid-19 in the city to 3 per cent from 3.2 per cent.He said under “Chase The Virus” initiative, 15 persons who come in close contact of a person who has tested positive will be strictly put in institutional quarantine.Chahal said a dashboard is being prepared where the availability of beds in Mumbai will be uploaded after every half an hour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-covid-19-doubling-rate-now-14-days-death-rate-falls/story-GHop26JgnZpKvD8arEI65K.html
27-05-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow university graduate sanitises temples and lanes in the city||||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/ht-eaup-nation-001-1210-storyd/story-IZ7fMJYvlko1JbN4I5mh5M.html
27-05-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: 81% of Maharashtra’s 54,758 cases have come in last 26 days||After reporting 3,041 cases, the highest ever single day tally of Covid-19 cases on Sunday, Maharastra state saw a drop in cases for the last two days and added 2,091 infections in the last 24 hours taking the tally to 54,758 cases, the health department said.However, it recorded the highest single day death toll as 96 patients died on Tuesday taking the casualties to 1,792. Mumbai, the country’s worst affected city, saw a drop in the cases in the last two days to 1,002 cases in the last 24 hours taking the tally to 32, 974 cases. The city, however, continued to record more than 1,000 cases over the last two consecutive weeks, even as the state government announced that it was chalking out the strategy to graded relaxations from the lockdown. Chief secretary Ajoy Mehta said that while the government was planning graded relaxations they also expected a surge in positive cases after the curbs are lifted.“There will be a surge in the positive cases after relaxations given in the lockdown. We are planning to ease out the restrictions in phase and calibrated manners to avoid a sudden surge and will be announced in stages. However, the health infrastructure is being ramped up to ensure surge was handled effectively,” he said at a press conference.He hinted that there would not be total lifting of lockdown after May 31.Of the 97 deaths on Tuesday, 39 were in Mumbai, 15 in Thane, 10 in Kalyan Dombivali, 8 in Pune, 7 in Solapur, 5 each in Aurangabad and Mira-Bhayandar, 3 each in Malegaon and Ulhasnagar, one each in Ratnagiri and Nagpur City. This month has seen 44,260 cases and 1,333 deaths in Maharashtra so far, which included 25,913 cases and 775 deaths in Mumbai. This means 80.83% cases and 74.39% deaths in the state have come in the past 26 days. The first case of Covid-19 in the state was on March 9.Mehta said that the removal of lockdown cannot be at one go. “The lifting of the lockdown policy is well thought through and based on the extent and acceleration of infection in particular areas. The relaxations will be informed well in advance to avoid panic moving out. The priority will be given to the necessities first and to the choice later while choosing the things that are excluding from the curbs. There will be a surge in the case once the curbs are lifted but we are ready to handle it with the help of awareness among people and the best medical advice, which is best in the world, is available to us,” he added. Mehta said that the relaxations in municipal corporations like Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon and Amravati were not given in the fourth phase even though they had less number of cases because the health infrastructure there was not enough to handle the surge after relaxations.According to officials, reconciliation of figures with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) portal is still in process, resulting in a difference in the cumulative figures.After having crossed 25,000 cases on May 13, the next 5,000 in the state were reported in just three days. The 40,000 mark was breached on May 21 in just five days and another 5,000 were crossed in just two days. The 50,000 mark was crossed on May 24, in just one day. On May 9, the state tally had touched 20,220. The state took 53 days for its first 10,000 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-81-of-maharashtra-s-54-758-cases-have-come-in-last-26-days/story-23icYYdbmRy8uIxsPvY3oJ.html
27-05-2020||Ranchi||18 new Coronavirus cases reported in Jharkhand, state tally at 428||Eighteen Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Jharkhand on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases to 426, said the state health department.The statewide coronavirus tally includes 247 active cases.India’s Covid-19 tally rose to 1,45,380, including 60,491 cured/discharged/migrated and 4,167 deaths, as per the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/18-new-coronavirus-cases-reported-in-jharkhand-state-tally-at-428/story-I6p9KOb62nuNqspAzdQIQK.html
27-05-2020||Noida||GB Nagar revisits containment zone plan for high-rises, to seal only towers||A day after residents of a Greater Noida west township held a protest against the authority’s decision to seal the entire society after three positive Covid-19 cases were reported from the housing complex, the district administration has redefined the containment zones for high-rises.According to Uttar Pradesh government guidelines, any residential area with multiple cases will become a containment zone and will be sealed for a period of 21 days. However, in a statement released by the office of the district magistrate Suhas Lalinakere Yathiraj on Tuesday, the radius of the containment zone will now depend on the number of cases.“In consultation with the state government, containment zones have been redefined for multi-storied buildings and societies in urban areas. If a single case is reported in a multi-storey society, only that particular tower will be sealed, and if more than one case is reported, the previous rule will be applicable according to which sealing radius will be 500 metre for containment and 250 metre for the buffer zone,” the order said.The order further stated that in case towers of the same society fall outside the 500 metre radius, they will not be considered as part of the containment zone.Residents of various high-rises have welcomed the district administration’s move.“It is very difficult for high-rises that have thousands of people living in them to have them sealed. It’s a question of their livelihood. People in hot spots cannot even get administrative passes. Not all societies have grocery shops within their premises, thus creating further problems,” Abhishek Kumar, president, NEFOWA, a Greater Noida West association of high-rises, said.The administration’s decision comes 24 hours after residents of Supertech Ecovillage had held a protest on Monday evening when their society had been sealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gb-nagar-revisits-containment-zone-plan-for-high-rises-to-seal-only-towers/story-u2wPUR60HRoZQnLqppmbQM.html
27-05-2020||City||44 flights with 4,224 fliers operate from Mumbai airport on Day 2 day of resumption of air services||Forty-four flights operated with 4,224 passengers from the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) on Tuesday, day 2 of resumption of air services.On Wednesday, the airport scheduled 50 flights for operations.“The airport saw 25 departures [3,114 passengers] and 19 arrivals [1,110] operated by six airlines,” a Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) spokesperson said. According to MIAL, the highest passenger load capacity at Mumbai airport was seen on the Mumbai- Delhi route.“Smooth operations of domestic civil aviation. Our airports have handled 325 departures & 283 arrivals with 41,673 passengers till 5pm on 26 May 2020, the 2nd day after recommencement of domestic flights. Final report for the day will be prepared after details come in at midnight,” tweeted aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri.The first flight departed from CSMIA at 6.30am to Ranchi, while the first flight arrived at 8.20am from Lucknow. While IniGo operated 20 flights, SpiceJet operated 10 flights, Air Asia, Air India and Vistara operated four flights each and Alliance Air operated two flights. According to airport officials, the passenger flow was smooth on Tuesday unlike Monday when many passengers had to return home after learning about their flight cancellations only after reaching terminal 2 (T2) of CSMIA.MIAL spokesperson said that flights operated with around 65% occupancy. The situation at Mumbai airport on Tuesday was much better as compared to Monday. All the flights which were scheduled to operate from Mumbai operated with 60% to 65% occupancy. The Maharashtra government has also introduced some relaxations, with the quarantine period for passengers arriving to the city being reduced to seven days instead of 14. This will boost air travel in the coming days,” said the spokespersonA Dehradrun bound IndiGo passenger said, “Apart from having smooth flight journey, my experience at Mumbai airport was commendable, as the authorities have done a great job and are ensuring that all the norms are being followed by the passengers.”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/41-flights-with-4-224-fliers-operate-from-mumbai-airport-on-day-2-day-of-resumption-of-air-services/story-eU5CwlEgp8cTvFb4eTdXsN.html
27-05-2020||City||Kalyan records 21 new cases, one death||Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) on Tuesday reported 21 positive cases.A 75-year-old woman from Govindwadi in Kalyan died on Tuesday after testing positive. “The woman was suffering from hypertension and diabetes. She complained of breathlessness and was admitted to a hospital five days ago. She tested positive and died on Tuesday. Her family members have been quarantined,” said Dr Pratibha Paanpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.The 21 cases reported on Tuesday include a seven-year-old girl from Parshuram Wadi in Kalyan and a five-year-old girl from Umesh Nagar Dombivli. KDMC has reported a total of 825 positive cases, among which, 280 have recovered. It has recorded 23 deaths so far. An employee of the health department of KDMC tested positive on Tuesday. The administration building will be shut on Wednesday for sanitisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-records-21-new-cases-one-death/story-faG4rcWPJ4vSN47kc5sIQP.html
27-05-2020||Mumbai||27 Shramik trains depart from Maharashtra on Tuesday||Even as the state and the Union railway ministry continued to blame each other over the issue of Shramik Special trains for migrants, 27 trains left from various stations across Maharashtra until Tuesday evening with migrant workers to their hometowns. The railways said it was ready to operate 145 Shramik trains to ferry migrant workers back to their hometowns in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Uttarakhand and Kerala. However, in the evening, Union railway minister Piyush Goyal evening tweeted that of the 85 trains that were scheduled to be leave the state by 6pm, only 27 had been operated “due to non-arrangement of passengers by the state government”. “I request the Maharashtra government to please help us to take the poor labourers to their homes,” part of Goyal’s tweet read. According to Central Railway (CR), the first train left from the state at 12.30pm. “Eighteen trains had to depart from Maharashtra by noon, but the departure could not happen owing to lack of passengers. The first boarding for the train started at 12.30pm. The passenger movement is very slow on part of the state government.” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officers, CR.Home minister Anil Deshmukh however, has alleged that the railway ministry sent 34 Shramik trains to ferry migrants to West Bengal despite the eastern state requesting Maharashtra government not to send any trains until Tuesday in the wake of Cyclone Amphan. Deshmukh has said that WB chief secretary Rajiv Sinha had written a letter to the railway ministry on May 22 over the issue. “Now rail minister Piyush Goyal is blaming Maharashtra for not departing the trains notified to originate from our state. He should not indulge in this cheap politics,” Deshmukh has said.Maharashtra transport minister Anil Parab has also slammed the Centre and alleged that the trains were scheduled at the last minute to defame the state government and to depict its incapability. Parab has said that Maharashtra had sought 172 trains over the next few days, but after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s address, in which he said the trains are not enough, the railway ministry sent a schedule at 2.30am on Tuesday for trains to depart from Maharashtra before 12 noon.“The Railway ministry had sent the schedule at 2.30am for trains that left Maharashtra before 12pm the same day. The police personnel have been under stress owing to the Covid duty. It is not possible for trains to depart before 12pm at such a short notice. This has been done to defame the Maharashtra government and to show that the Centre is providing trains but the state is not able to send migrants,” Parab said in a video statement.The minister also alleged that the railway ministry provided 43 of the 48 trains together sought by the state, despite knowing that only two trains would leave for West Bengal due to the weather condition there. “In all, we had sought 48 trains for West Bengal to ferry migrants in the coming days, but 43 trains were scheduled for departure on a single day. The West Bengal government had requested us that only two trains daily will be allowed to enter to the state owing to the weather conditions there and we had accepted their request. By scheduling 43 trains, the Centre wants to portray that they want to provide trains but the Maharashtra government does not have the administrative strength to send migrant labourers.”Even as confusion over the departure of the trains prevailed, hundreds of migrant workers along wih their families gathered outside Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Lokmanya Tilak Terminus(LTT) and waited In queues to enter the railway station premises.State minority affairs minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik On Tuesday night asked Goyal to stop playing mind games. “Mr @PiyushGoyal, you said that you have alloted 49 trains for migrants from Lokmanya Tilak Terminus in Mumbai. The DRM at LTT says only 16 trains can be released.You must come clear on this issue, stop playing dirty politics and mind games. People have gathered there hoping that all 49 trains will leave as promised by you. You must now make sure that all 49 trains take these migrants to their respective destinations,” the minister tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/27-shramik-trains-depart-from-maharashtra-on-tuesday/story-MXvukWLArjyNPaMf2R0E2M.html
27-05-2020||Mumbai||Migrant, family survive only on water for 3 days||A migrant worker, his wife and their one-and-a-half-year-old daughter travelled from Mumbai to the village of Jaunpur in Uttar Pradesh (UP), surviving on nothing but water.Ashish Vishwakarma, a carpenter who lived with his family in Nallasopara and worked at Vidyavihar, had been out of work since March 22 because of the lockdown. With most of their neighbours returning to their villages, the Vishwakarmas decided to do the same. For Rs 6,000 he got a place on a truck for himself and his family, to make the journey to UP. He was told there would be 35 others in the truck, but ultimately, there were about 50 people. “The truck was to leave at night. Then there were rumours that they have found Covid-positive patients in my area so the truck left in a hurry in the afternoon,” Vishwakarma said. They left Mumbai on May 10 and in the rush, the Vishwakarmas were not able to organise any food for themselves. All the hotels along the way were shut and the family survived on only water for the duration of the journey. “We had some powdered milk for our daughter. We needed clean water to mix that also. She cried a lot all the way as it was unbearably hot,” he said.They reached Jaunpur on May 14. At present, the Vishwarmas are staying in a field adjacent to their house, to distance themselves from the rest of the family, which includes Vishwakarma’s two-and-a-half-year-old son who has been living in Jaunpur with his grandparents. In the village, the family is surviving on food they’d bought earlier. “We haven’t been buying vegetables. We don’t have any farmland in the village,” said Vishwakarma, who hopes to return to Mumbai once regular train services become operational. He said he has seen two to four trucks with migrants arrive in Jaunpur each day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/migrant-family-survive-only-on-water-for-3-days/story-eawmVvHuPr9SDAa2V61e2H.html
27-05-2020||City||Panvel crosses 400 mark with eight positive cases||Panvel crossed the 400 mark on Tuesday with eight more Covid positive cases being recorded in the region. The total in Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) touched 401 on Tuesday. Of the total cases reported till now, 60 are from Kalamboli, 157 from Kamothe, 89 from Kharghar, 62 from New Panvel, 27 from Panvel and six from Taloja.Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) reported 63 new cases on Tuesday. The total cases in Navi Mumbai are 1,774. Among the new Covid cases are six children, including a 16-month-old baby from Nerul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panvel-crosses-400-mark-with-eight-positive-cases/story-5HeYlcScYmJZrlaZvPh8qL.html
27-05-2020||Mumbai||First major locust attack in Maharashtra since 1993; 3 districts hit||Maharashtra is facing its first major locust invasion since 1993, with a swarm of short horned grasshoppers having invaded six talukas across three districts — Amravati, Wardha and Nagpur — in Vidarbha. While major food crops are not under threat, fruit orchards and vegetable farms are likely to be affected.According to the state agriculture department, the swarm is reported to be at least 10-km-long and two-km-wide, which has covered a distance of around 120km between May 24 and 26, and it continues to spread.The main affected areas include 22 villages across Morshi and Warud talukas in Amravati; Ashti taluka in upper Wardha district; and Katol, Kalmeshwar and Narkhed talukas in Nagpur. “The invasion began from Katol on Monday morning. While major crop damage is not expected since we are close to monsoon and sowing in these areas begins by June 7, but orange orchards are threatened by the invasion. A 25% loss is being estimated for those owning these orchards,” said Ravindra Bhosale, divisional joint director agriculture, Nagpur division. “The swarm is now moving further deeper into rural areas of Nagpur division. At Kalmeshwar taluka, on Tuesday, we were informed of damage to vegetable crops across 5-6 hectares,” said Bhosale.The last time Maharashtra witnessed such an invasion was in 1993 in Dhule district, the Locust Warning Organisation (LWO) under the Union agriculture ministry said. “An escaping population of desert locusts made their way from Madhya Pradesh into Amravati district on May 24 owing to the current wind direction and the presence of forest patches where they can grow and breed. Over 48 hours, they have covered two more districts, showing an unusual swarming behaviour,” said Dr KL Gurjar, deputy director and national coordinator on mitigating locust attacks, LWO. Subhash Nagade, divisional joint director agriculture, Amravati division, said, “There is fear and panic among villagers and farmers. With the Covid-19 pandemic underway and extremely hot weather in Vidarbha, the locust outbreak has made the situation worse. We are working with the municipal authorities for awareness drives across all affected areas.” Between Monday night and early Tuesday morning, district officials with the help of the fire department carried out a six-hour drive to kill the locusts by spraying pesticides on the affected areas in all three districts. “We learnt that the swarms move during the day and sleep on the fruit bearing citrus trees at night. Villagers informed us about their exact locations, and an overnight extermination drive saw thousands of dead insects across a 17-km stretch at Katol. However, on Tuesday morning, those that survived began swarming other talukas,” said Bhosale.Nagade said a similar thing was witnessed in Amravati. “The swarm has reduced here and moved towards greener pastures in Wardha and Nagpur. However, we fear the possibility of another swarm making its way from MP,” he said.“We are constantly in touch with local officers overseeing this. We expect the invasion to be controlled within a few days in Maharashtra. However, another escaping population from MP cannot be ruled out,” said GurjarThe country is witnessing a severe locust outbreak active across Rajasthan, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, and now Maharashtra. These rapidly reproducing crop munching pests can eat daily amounts equal to its weight, and can fly up to 150km in a day. Central and state bodies have stepped up efforts to control the menace as it poses crop vulnerability and threat to food safety if the outbreak is not contained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/first-major-locust-attack-in-maharashtra-since-1993-3-districts-hit/story-hll1tdD0Hty70JvAlKAGXL.html
27-05-2020||Mumbai||Mahrashtra CM reviews state’s monsoon preparedness||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday reviewed the state’s monsoon preparedness and said that monsoon-related diseases should be dealt with in a competent manner. Thackeray, during a meeting with district administrations and other officials held via video-conferencing, sought for better coordination between all agencies to avoid flooding.The state health machinery is stretched too thin currently in combating the Covid-19 crisis. Communicable diseases during monsoon could further strain the health infrastructure in the state. The CM asked for division-wise and district-wise meetings with the doctors to ensure there are no cases of infectious diseases in the monsoon.“While we are fighting the Covid-19 crisis, communicable diseases during the monsoons will also have to be dealt with in a competent manner. The CM asked officials to ensure coordination between various agencies and take measures in advance to ensure that diseases would not spread,” a statement from the CM’s office said.For Mumbai, Thackeray stressed on cleaning and deepening of stormwater drains and ensure that there are no potholes in the city and in rural parts of the state.“It is important that stormwater drains in Mumbai be cleaned and deepened for the timely discharge of rainwater. Pumping stations must function properly. It must be ensured that pipes which discharge water are clean. It should be ensured that there are no potholes on roads in cities and rural areas, and these potholes, if any, must be repaired immediately,” the statement said.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar, minister of state for relief and rehabilitation Prajakt Tanpure, chief secretary Ajoy Mehta, BMC commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, divisional commissioners, along with officials from Indian Railways, navy, army, air force, coast guard and India Meteorological Department (IMD) were present in the meeting.The chief minister gave directions over the prevention of floods in Kolhapur and Sangli district like last year. He directed the officials to coordinate with Karnataka government on the release of water from the southern state’s Almatti dam. “To prevent a flood situation like last year in Sangli and Kolhapur, discharge of water from dams should be planned and regulated. The CM asked for coordination to be ensured now with the department concerned for the release of water from the Almatti dam in Karnataka,” the statement added.Thackeray said that though there are weather forecasts, monsoon may some times defy the forecast. He directed all agencies to coordinate with IMD. Referring to the Mahalaxmi Express train that was stuck in the inundated tracks during 2019 monsoon, Thackeray said that like flight operations take the weather into account, the railways must plan its journeys after looking at the weather forecast on the route.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mahrashtra-cm-reviews-state-s-monsoon-preparedness/story-UTlH2gXwpMpNz456l1akuM.html
27-05-2020||City||Don’t admit asymptomatic patients: Thane civic body to private Covid hospitals||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has sent notices to the private hospitals dedicated for Covid treatment in the city on Monday, directing them not to admit asymptomatic Covid-19 patients and reserve the beds only for symptomatic patients. If private hospitals are found violating the rule, a case under the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Indian Penal Code (IPC) will be registered against them. The corporation said the step has been taken to increase the availability of beds in hospitals and put a check on private hospitals from fleecing patients. The city currently has 2,172 coronavirus cases but the hospitals have been finding it difficult to accommodate the growing number of patients. In the past few days, there have been reports of patients losing their lives owing to the unavailability of beds in hospitals.RT Kendre, officer on special duty for Covid, said, “As per the data, 70% percent of the positive patients are asymptomatic or have minor symptoms, while 15% patients recover without any medication. Ten percent of the patients, however, suffer from breathlessness or have other symptoms, for which they need to be treated in a hospital. However, we have observed that private hospitals admit patients who have no symptoms and charge them exorbitant fees, leaving symptomatic patients without beds.”A medical team has been appointed to keep a check on private hospitals and ensure that the orders are followed. The team will pay a visit to each of these hospitals to see if asymptomatic patients are admitted. The team will also have to present a report regularly to the health department.There are around 700 beds available at these private hospitals, of which 400 have been occupied. But according to a survey by the civic officials, only 150 of these patients are in need of treatment at the hospitals, as the others are asymptomatic, informed Kendre. “As per the notice, we will register cases under the Epidemic Act and the IPC against such hospitals who admit symptomatic patients. This decision will help increase the number of beds in the city and ensure emergency patients do not suffer and we can control the death rate. The hospitals will also have to discharge the asymptomatic patients if they are admitted. We also appeal the residents and the corporators to support the notice and not to insist on the admission of asymptomatic patients,” said Kendre.After receiving the notice, 147 asymptomatic patients were discharged on Monday and Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/don-t-admit-asymptomatic-patients-thane-civic-body-to-private-covid-hospitals/story-gjuJY1HvUwD28qpQyC9rVO.html
27-05-2020||Chandigarh||Two roads in Chandigarh’s Industrial Area to be widened for ₹10 crore by December-end||For decongesting the Madhya Marg and Dakshin Marg, and for improving the connectivity to Panchkula, the widening of two roads in the city’s Industrial Area, Phase 1, is slated to begin in a month’s time.The ₹10-crore project is scheduled to be completed by year-end.The first road connects the Poultry Farm Chowk (Junction 39 on the Dakshin Marg) to the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) workshop in the Industrial Area. The second one runs parallel to Madhya Marg and Dakshin Marg, passing through the Industrial Area and connects Purv Marg to the Chandigarh railway station.“The road coming from the Poultry Farm Chowk will be widened by 14 feet, and extended from its current width of 40 ft to 54 ft. Six feet will be added on one side, and eight on the other,” said a senior UT engineering department official privy to the development. From CTU to railway station light point, the road will be widened by 6-8 ft.The widening of these two roads will considerably reduce traffic on Madhya Marg and Dakshin Marg, and support the new underpass to be constructed through the Chandigarh railway station connecting Chandigarh and Panchkula. The underpass is part of the railway station’s development and expansion plan. To be constructed by the railways, the 258-metre-long underpass will run from Garcha Chowk to Mauli Jagran. It is planned to be 5.5 metres high and 15-metre wide.CYCLE TRACK TOOIn addition to the widening of the road, construction of a cycle track from Junction 39 to CTU workshop is also part of the project. “While there is no space for a cycle track between CTU workshop and the railway light point, space for a track on the other road has been earmarked. It will be constructed alongside the relaying and widening road project,” the official said.36 NEW BUS LAYS TO BE CONSTRUCTEDFor better traffic management on city roads, the UT engineering department will be constructing 36 new bus lay-bys. A bus lay-by is a designated spot on the side of a road where buses pull out of the flow of traffic to pick up and drop off passengers. It is often indented into the sidewalk or other pedestrian walkway.The work on the ₹22-lakh project will start by June-end and is scheduled to be completed by September. The bus lay-bys will come up on Dakshin Marg, Shanti Path, near sectors 4, 27, 19, 21, 22, 23, 42, 51 and 46.“The department conducted a study and concluded that bus lay-bys were required at these spots otherwise stopping of buses was causing traffic jams here,” said the official.RENOVATION OF 80 BUS QUEUE SHELTERSThe UT engineering department will carry out renovation work of 80 bus queue shelters of heritage design at a cost of ₹20 lakh. The renovation will allow these shelters to be used for incorporating bus information systems under the intelligent transport system (ITS). The ITS is being developed under the aegis of the UT transport department. It allows for live updates on geo-location of the buses and display timings of arrival of CTU buses at the shelters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-roads-in-chandigarh-s-industrial-area-to-be-widened-for-10-crore-by-december-end/story-zW7aPr1l8l7yHA4bQRulRP.html
27-05-2020||City||Rapid Action Force deployed at 3 Thane wards with high coronavirus cases||With the number of coronavirus cases witnessing a steady surge at Lokmanyanagar and Savarkarnagar, Wagle Estate and Mumbra, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) and Thane Police on Tuesday have roped in the Rapid Action Force (RAF) for deployment at these areas. In a bid to ensure that lockdown orders are followed to prevent the cases from rising further, 170 RAF personnel will conduct marches in these areas every morning. A team of 60 personnel each will be deployed at Lokmanyanagar and Savarkarnagar and Wagle Estate areas, while 50 RAF personnel will be deployed at Mumbra. “Thane has a huge population and a high number of positive cases in the state. To ensure that locals follow the rules and additional manpower is available [to authorities], RAF teams have been posted at areas with more number of cases,” said TMC commissioner Vijay Singhal.“All the three areas are containment zones, where special rules ought to be followed to prevent the outbreak from spreading further. RAF personnel will help in ensuring that the residents follow law and order strictly,” said Balasaheb Patil, deputy commissioner of police, Thane. Mumbra, which will be under complete lockdown from Tuesday midnight, already has State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) personnel stationed from the past one month. “We had given a leeway to the residents during Ramzan, so that they could shop for groceries and fruits. However, with Ramzan coming to an end, we have to ensure that laws that come into effect during epidemics are implemented and followed strictly. So a team of 50 RAF personnel will also be monitoring the areas in Mumbra, in addition to the 120 SRPF personnel already deployed here,” said P Thorat, inspector, Mumbra police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rapid-action-force-deployed-at-3-thane-wards-with-high-coronavirus-cases/story-WkTsN5j2Lu3dU4nGTfyekK.html
27-05-2020||City||Covid outbreak: Thane adds 74 new containment zones||The containment zones in Thane have increased in the past two weeks, with Covid cases in the city reaching 2,172. Seventy-four new containment zones were added, taking the total to 235.The maximum number of zones is in Mumbra ward followed by Lokmanyanagar Sawarkarnagar, Naupada-Kopri and Wagale Estate – all slum areas.Thane had only 300 cases on May 1. The Thane Municipal Corporation claimed that the increase is because of increase in testing.A TMC official said, “There are 39 containment zones in Mumbra, 35 in Naupada-Kopri, 33 in Lokmanyanagar Sawarkarnagar and 27 in Majiwada Manpada.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-outbreak-thane-adds-74-new-containment-zones/story-09O5SBDOglcq8FxQ69OoZK.html
27-05-2020||City||Maharashtra government got ₹28K-crore from Centre in three months to fight Covid pandemic, says Fadnavis||Leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday hit back at the Thackeray-led government over claims that the Centre was biased against Maharashtra and had not given it enough assistance to tackle the pandemic.Fadnavis, who held a press conference, said the Central government had given the state financial assistance worth ₹28,000 crore over past three months to directly and indirectly, through foodgrains for public distribution system (₹19,000 crore) under the Garib Kalyan Yojana, direct cash assistance under PM Kisan Samman Yojana, Jan Dhan Yojana, besides assistance to procure farm produce (₹9,069 crore), relief camps and trains for migrant labourers (₹1,911 crore), assistance for health equipment such as purchase of PPE kits and N-95 masks (₹2,160 crore), devolution of taxes (₹5,648 crore), etc.Fadnavis said that he studied the central funds and assistance packages given by the Centre to Maharashtra to address “false claims and statements” being made in the media by those in the government. “Consistent efforts are being made in the state to show that the Centre has not been helping Maharashtra. The state is facing injustice at the hands of the Central government. This is completely false, but when fake statements are reiterated often a wrong perception can be created,” said Fadnavis.The MVA allies refuted Fadnavis’s figures as computation of Centre’s share in various schemes and taxes which is mandatory.The former CM also said the state could access nearly ₹78,000 crore of the fiscal package announced by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. While he said that not everything announced by Sitharaman could be divided state-wise, rough number-crunching showed that Maharashtra was poised to get big advantage from the package for Micro Small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), subsidies for housing and power sector.Making a case for the state government to take “bold steps” and raise loans, Fadnavis said the Centre had increased fiscal space for all states by increasing loan limit to five per cent of the GDP. He said this would enable Maharashtra to raise ₹1.60 lakh crore in loans from the market to tackle the pandemic, given that there would be a loss of nearly six months of goods and services tax (GST). “It’s not enough to say we don’t have money so we can’t announce package. If the RBI and the Centre is permitting you, bold decisions must be taken. Several states including Karnataka, Gujarat and even Congress-ruled Chattisgarh governments have announced a package,” he added.The state BJP unit has sought ₹50,000-crore package from the state for daily-wage earners and farmers.Overall, Fadnavis claimed the Maharashtra government can access ₹2.70 lakh crore of the Centre’s finances directly or indirectly. “No package has been given to the state. This computation of ₹28,000 crore includes share of the Centre in various schemes and taxes, which is mandatory for the Union government. This has not benefitted the government in any way to tackle the crisis,” said NCP spokesperson and minister Nawab Malik. He also slammed Fadnavis for advising the state to raise loans from the market.Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said Karnataka had announced a package worth ₹1,610 crore, Gujarat worth ₹670 crore, while Fadnavis had demanded ₹50,000 crore from the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-government-got-28k-crore-from-centre-in-three-months-to-fight-covid-pandemic-says-fadnavis/story-ilYT9ygqPPgFIYll0PtCnL.html
27-05-2020||Mumbai||58-year-old woman dies while waiting for special train token in Vasai||A 58-year-old woman, Vidothma Surendra Shukla, died on Tuesday afternoon while waiting for her token pass for Shramik Special train to Uttar Pradesh’s Jaunpur from Vasai Road station. The incident occurred at Suncity grounds in Vasai(East) where more than 15,000 people were present to collect their tokens in the scorching heat. The administration were running seven Shramik Special trains to UP, Rajasthan,Odhisha among other states.Shukla was amongst the crowd with her 30-year-old son at around 5 pm she feeling uneasy due to heat. “Her son then her to sit under a pandal but Shukla felt unconscious and soon started to vomit. The police present at the spot called a private ambulance and rushed her to a hospital when she died en route,” said PI Rajendra Kamble of Manickpur police. According to her son, the victim was a diabetic and had blood pressure and may have skipped her medicines so that she could get a paper token to board one such train to UP. The victim stayed in Nalla Sopara and was a homemaker. We have registered a case of accidental death and are awaiting the post mortem report said police.This is the first death recorded in regard to people waiting for a token to board Shramik Express trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/58-yr-old-woman-dies-while-waiting-for-special-train-token-in-vasai/story-QbaTQCgK8vK7LWnz0omR4M.html
27-05-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali man, four kin booked for dowry death||A man and four family members were booked for dowry death on Tuesday, after his wife was found hanging at their house in Kharar’s Chajjumajra colony on Friday.Police have arrested the deceased’s husband, Rakesh Kumar, and his father Kuldeep, while his mother, brother and sister-in-law are absconding.The deceased woman has been identified as Shalu, a native of Jagraon in Ludhiana.The case was registered based on the complaint of Shalu’s brother, Vishal, who said Shalu called her younger sister Neha on Friday, and said her husband and in-laws are demanding money from her.After some time, Shalu called Neha again and said they were beating her, following which, they informed the police control room in Mohali, the complaint said. But before police could reach, Rakesh’s aunt called them and informed them of Shalu’s death. Shalu married Rakesh, who runs a grocery shop, in October 2018. Shalu’s father Bhandari Lal said they have an 11-month-old son from the marriage.Lal said that her husband and in-laws had been harassing her for dowry.“I had taken a loan and given them money earlier,” he added. Police had initially started proceedings under 174 of CrPC, but based on the complaint by the deceased’s family, a case was registered under Section 304B (dowry death) of the Indian Penal Code at Kharar (city) police station.The arrested accused were presented before a court and sent to two-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohali-man-four-kin-booked-for-dowry-death/story-UeuIkZYpV88OqVop6dpfuN.html
27-05-2020||City||From desert coolers for large cats to ice candies for bears, Mohali’s Chhatbir Zoo is ready to beat the heat||While humanity battles with a pandemic amid scorching heat, three Royal Bengal tiger cubs are busy playing in a water pond at the Mahendra Chaudhary Zoological Park popularly known as Chhatbir Zoo.To shield the seven-month-old cubs, who were born to white tigress Diya in November last year, from the soaring temperatures, the zoo authorities have created water ponds—one inside the night shelter and one outside in the enclosure. These water ponds are part of the measures taken by the zoo authorities to save animals from summer heat.“Our focus is to protect the cubs from the rising temperatures for which water ponds have been dug,” says zoo field director M Sudhagar.The zoo was closed on March 16 as a precautionary measure against the Covid-19 outbreak, thus giving the cubs and their mother Diya enough time to train without being exposed to human interference. Royal Bengal tiger Aman, father to the cubs, has had no interaction with them to date.With the changing temperature, the zoo authorities have made certain changes in the diet as well as the feeding time. “Frozen fruit ‘candies’ have been introduced for bears this year to enrich their dietary experience during summer,” says Sudhagar.“Papaya has been replaced with bananas and other seasonal water-based fruits, cabbage leaves make for spinach leaves, and radish has been replaced with cucumber,” he adds.These ice blocks are provided to each bear, every day. Water-based fruits such as watermelon have been added in the diet for monkeys, bears and elephants. Glucon-D powder is mixed in the drinking water of all the carnivores and omnivores to prevent dehydration.Sudhagar says, “Special seasonal arrangements are made for the animals on a case to case basis during summer to help them cope physiologically and for their better up-keep.”Desert coolers and air circulator fans are provided in the night shelters of all tigers, leopards, lions, bears and other large cats. Water ponds have been dug and natural cooling tubs have been kept in most of the enclosures to minimise the physiological effects of scorching heat. Water tankers and tractors are kept in standby to ensure an uninterrupted supply of water in the zoo.To keep the enclosures mosquito free, the windows have been covered with mesh. Shallow muddy pools have been created in elephant enclosure, Manipur deer enclosure, Swamp deer enclosure and deer safari for wallowing and mud bath. Concrete water pools are also being maintained round the clock as part of summer management activities.All bird cages have been covered with agro-net of 75% density and jute mats sprinkled with cool water to save birds from hot air and harsh sunlight and prevent heat stroke. “In a special measure for the aviary, misting facilities have been added for the free flying birds to dissipate the high body heat,” added Sudhagar. The sprinkler/showers have been provided in pheasantry and small bird aviaries, too, to help birds spend the summer comfortably.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/from-desert-coolers-for-large-cats-to-ice-candies-for-bears-mohali-s-chhatbir-zoo-is-ready-to-beat-the-heat/story-jihG4K8avMrTcKeuq5OzEK.html
27-05-2020||City||Pawar, Raut refute BJP’s claims of instability in Maharashtra, say government will complete full term||A day after Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar met chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray at his residence amid speculation of a rift between the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Tuesday cleared the air saying there is no need to worry about the stability of the state government. He said the Thackeray government will complete its full term.On Monday, Pawar reached Matoshree – the Thackeray residence – after meeting Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. There were speculations that Pawar was not happy with Thackeray’s handling of the Covid-19 outbreak, while Thackeray was unhappy with Pawar’s stand to reopen economic activities in the state.Raut tweeted on Tuesday morning, “Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Sharad Pawar met at Matoshree last evening for 1.5 hours. There are some who are spreading false stories about the stability of this MVA govt. That is nothing but heartburn. This government is stable. Don’t worry.”Speaking to reporters in Mumbai later, Raut said: “This period during the pandemic is painful for the Opposition. Politics is in quarantine. They must be doing this [speculating about fall of the government] to kill time. The Thackeray government of the Congress, NCP and Shiv Sena will complete its full term. There is no danger to the government. The Opposition should worry about their party. We have support of 170 legislators. The independents, which had backed the BJP, are in our contact. No legislator [from the MVA] will switch sides.”Raut, in his interaction with the media, said that Pawar met Thackeray to discuss the course of action for the state government and measures to be taken to tackle Covid-19. “If we take Pawar saheb’s suggestions and guidance on these matters, what is the harm? The country’s prime minister too takes his guidance, you all know that.”Responding to demands of President’s rule in Maharashtra, Raut said, “If the Opposition feels that enough is not being done to tackle the coronavirus outbreak and President’s rule should be imposed, Gujarat is a fit for it. The Gujarat high court’s observations are serious. The governor there should summon the [Gujarat] CM and the Opposition party in Maharashtra should go there and launch an agitation.”Nawab Malik, NCP spokesperson and minister in the state government, expressed confidence that the state government would complete its full term. “The government is strong and stable and the three parties are united. The numbers [of legislators] are in favour of MVA,” Malik told a channel. “Some people within the BJP have been spreading rumours since past few days that President’s rule will be imposed in Maharashtra, and that this government will collapse.”He added that the state government is handling the Covid-19 as per the guidelines of the Centre. “The Maharashtra government has been strictly adhering to the Centres guidelines on combating Covid-19. The number of people tested and traced in Maharashtra is highest in the country,” he claimed.Pawar, Thackeray, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and other senior MVA ministers held meetings at the Bal Thackeray memorial site in Shivaji Park this month. Raut said that Pawar is a veteran leader, who had run the government in Maharashtra for several years and is an experienced administrator.The Thackeray government has been criticised by the Bharatiya Janata Party and Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis. The former CM had led an agitation against the government last week. Fadnavis is scheduled to address the media via video-conferencing on Tuesday evening.Former Sena leader and BJP leader Narayan Rane also met the governor on Monday and demanded the implementation of President’s rule in the state as the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government he said failed to tackle the crisis. He also demanded all government hospitals should be taken over by the military as the present system has failed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pawar-raut-refute-bjp-s-claims-of-instability-in-maharashtra-say-government-will-complete-full-term/story-yfxtc5ba2IsPYXjp40s7ZP.html
27-05-2020||Chandigarh||Rupnagar residents up in arms over water shortage||Residents from various localities of Rupnagar, who said they are facing water shortage for the last two weeks, staged a protest outside the office of Punjab water supply and sewerage board, on Tuesday.They said localities including Ali Mohalla, Chhota Kheda, Mil Mil Nangar, Preet Colony, Nehru Nagar, Bhandari Chowk, Uchha Khera, Mata Rani Mohalla and Malhotra colony were receiving no water.The residents said they had sought answers from the municipal council, as the civic body is responsible for supplying water in the town. However, residents said MC officials told them that the board didn’t release sufficient water, which is causing the shortage.On the other hand, officials of the MC and water supply and sewerage board were seen passing the buck from one shoulder to the other.Assistant municipal engineer Kuldeep Aggarwal said that though the Punjab Water Supply and sewerage Board set up a ₹56 crore project including over water head tanks; but, there was no plan to increase the quantity of water to be supplied in the town.On the other hand, the board’s officials claimed tenders for work to increase water supply could not be floated amid the lockdown, resulting in the shortage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rupnagar-residents-up-in-arms-over-water-shortage/story-IgIPqTtViUM4ICqpAP5HPM.html
27-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai jail reports first Covid-19 death||After 158 inmates and 26 staffers tested positive, Arthur Road Mumbai Central Jail reported its first victim of Covid-19. Harun Bashir Shaikh, an undertrial prisoner who was in Arthur Road jail, was admitted to Sir JJ Hospital in the last week of April for treatment of diabetes. He succumbed to Covid-19 on May 9. Shaikh is the first inmate to die in Mumbai. According to an affidavit submitted by jail authorities to Bombay HC on Tuesday, three inm-ates in the state have died of Covid-19 so far. Shaikh was asym-ptomatic and tested positive for Covid-19 after he passed away. A senior jail officer, requesting anonymity, said, “Shaikh was suffering from diabetes and in the last week of April, he was admitted to Sir JJ Hospital. After treatment, he was not allowed to enter Arthur Road prison again and was send to Taloja Central Jail in Navi Mumbai.” Shaikh was quarantined in Taloja jail but his health deteriorated within a day and he was taken back to Sir JJ Hospital, where he passed away on May 9. “After his death, a Covid-19 test confirmed he was positive. He was asymptomatic,” said the jail official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-jail-reports-first-covid-19-death/story-tx4HAI147asMU3WZojQFwK.html
27-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University syndicate to take a call on introducing new courses||A decision on the introduction of new courses from the 2020-21 academic session will be taken at the meeting of the Panjab University syndicate On May 30. Proposals for introduction of eight new courses will be tabled for discussion.Usually, the introduction of new courses need approval from respective boards of studies, following which, respective faculties must give their consent. Then, the matter is taken up by PU’s academic council. The final decision is then taken by the syndicate, which is the apex executive body of the university.However, this year, amid the Covid-19 lockdown, meetings of faculty members could not be held in March. Also, according to university, conducting the meeting of the academic council in June, is not a feasible option, this year. So, introduction of new courses will directly be taken up by the syndicate.WHAT ARE THE NEW COURSES?PU is planning to start BSc honours in mathematics and computing. The course was approved by the board of studies concerned, but, is yet to be approved by PU’s faculty of science and the academic council. Also, a decision will be taken on the introduction of a one-year diploma in inclusive education for NRI/foreign nationals. The course is proposed to have 25 seats.Also, members of the syndicate will take call on the introduction of a self-financed PhD course at University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (UIPS). The proposed fee for the course is ₹2.5 lakh per annum. They will also deliberate on the starting of MSc instrumentation course at the University Centre for Instrumentation and Microelectronics (UCIM).The decision on the introduction of a PG diploma in photography at University School of Open learning (USOL) will also be taken up by the syndicate members. The course is proposed to have 100 seats. A call will also be taken on the introduction of a PG diploma in cognitive sciences and human factors at the department of philosophy.Syndicate members will also decide on the introduction of certificate course at Dr BR Ambedkar centre and certificate and diploma courses at VVBIS and IS Hoshiarpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-syndicate-to-take-a-call-on-introducing-new-courses/story-KPrrzwt4ghYT7KlLVgBZRK.html
27-05-2020||City||6 positive, 4 negative Covid test reports raise questions over sampling process||Inconsistencies which emerged in the sampling results of a Covid-19 patient from Hisar have raised questions on the testing process of the state health authorities.The 29-year old patient was subjected to 10 tests to check the presence of coronavirus in his body over a month. The man was in for an ordeal as he tested positive in six and negative in four reports. The uncertainty over his Covid-19 status continued for a month before he finally walked out of the isolation ward of Maharaja Agrasen Medical College, Agroha, on Tuesday as a corona-free man. The inconsistencies in the outcome of the tests have been puzzling even as his month-long fightback after returning from Ghaziabad is inspiring. The patient, who is a resident of Hisar, also wrote an email to health minister Anil Vij on May 22, raising questions over the testing process. He told the minister that two days after he returned from Ghaziabad on April 23, where he runs a transport business, he was tested positive for coronavirus and sent to the isolation ward of Agroha medical college. As per his email, his first three samples were tested positive for Covid-19, while his fourth and fifth samples tested negative. He said he was still asked to stay at the hospital’s isolation ward. “On Tuesday, one month and four negative tests later, I finally returned home. I do not understand that despite testing negative for a couple of times and being asymptomatic, why was I kept in the isolation ward for so long. However, I will remain quarantined in my home just for the safety of my pregnant wife and other family members,” the patient said.Dr Yogesh Sharma, chief medical officer of Hisar civil hospital, said there is no difference between the tests conducted at Hisar’s National Research Centre on Equines (NRCE) and Rohtak’s Post Graduation Institute of Medical Science (PGIMS). “In some cases, a patient might even take 40 days before his report turns out to be negative. It depends on the body’s immunity,” Sharma said, adding that in most of the cases, patients are asymptomatic. Haryana’s nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Dhruv Chaudhary also ruled out any difference between tests conducted at NRCE and PGIMS. “Though, there are different types of methodology for examining samples for Covid-19. There is a difference in sensitivity of kits as well. Some people take 10 to 14 days before their reports come out negative, while some may take up to six weeks. Positivity in the tests simply means that there is presence of the virus in the body.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/6-positive-4-negative-covid-test-reports-raise-questions-over-sampling-process/story-zsK81qVVnteUN4VOcsqT7M.html
27-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana sees steepest single-day spike, tally crosses 1,300 mark||With 94 new cases, Haryana registered its steepest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases on Tuesday and the state’s tally reached 1,305. Maximum new cases were detected in Gurugram (33), followed by Faridabad (22). Five more people, including two women, tested positive for the virus in Panipat, taking the number of infected persons to 58 in the district. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Sant Lal Verma said among the patients are two men aged 30 and 22 from Noorwala village, who had recently returned from Delhi and self-reported to the district health department. The case history of the fifth patient, a 30-year-old man from Vikash Nagar, is being investigated. Kurukshetra CMO Dr Sukhbir Singh said the new patients in the district included a 60-year-old woman from Jandheri village of Shahbad, who had gone to Ambala civil hospital for treatment, a 28-year-old vegetable vendor from Gobindgarh village, who brought his stock from Ghaziabad and a 46-year-man from Ban village, who works as an arhtiya in Ladwa vegetable market. Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said they registered three new Covid cases. The patients are a 32-year-old man from Kunjpura village, who had returned from Delhi, a 42-year-old woman from Nirmal Vihar in Karnal city and another 28-year-old woman from Sector 8, who had come from Varanasi.MAHENDERGARH: 15 TEST POSITIVE IN A DAYMahendergarh district witnessed a spike in Covid-19 cases after 15 people, who had returned from other states, tested positive on Tuesday. The state bulletin, however, only mentioned 12 cases.So far, the district has reported 36 cases, which include 34 people with travel history to other states, a Mahendergarh resident who had brought his father – a Rajasthan Police employee – from Delhi, and his one contact. The district has 30 active cases. 6 CASES SURFACE IN AMBALASix people in Ambala, including an army employee, were found infected on Tuesday. CMO Dr Kuldeep Singh said of these six, two had a travel history to Delhi and one returned from Mumbai. Among the remaining patients are a truck driver who returned from Bihar, a Kurukshetra resident and an army employee serving at the military hospital. COP FOUND INFECTED IN REWARIA policeman in charge of the security of a 22-year-old gangrape victim and her family tested positive for the virus in Rewari. The cop, a resident of Jhajjar’s Siwana village, had returned from his home last week. Another woman, who is battling cancer and had visited AIIMS extension in Badsa, was found infected. In Bhiwani, three persons, including a Haryana cop’s mother and friend, tested positive. Two new cases were also reported from Rohtak’s Rajendra Nagar and Garhi Bohar village. JAIL INMATES ISOLATED IN SIRSAIn Sirsa, a man, who was arrested under the Excise Act on May 21 and sent to jail, was found infected. “He got bail on May 22 and was later tested positive for the virus. We have quarantined all occupants of his barrack and cops who came in his contact in the jail,” CMO Dr Surender Nain said.Meanwhile, taking a U-turn, the state health authorities on Tuesday included the death of a 50-year-old Jind resident, who also suffered from cancer, into the state’s Covid-19 toll.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-sees-steepest-single-day-spike-tally-crosses-1-300-mark/story-vc3sACthHmGFVyiIft91KL.html
27-05-2020||Chandigarh||Arbitral tribunal slaps ₹1,737-crore damages on HSIIDC||In a blow to the state government already struggling with finances, a three-member arbitral tribunal has ordered Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC), a government owned public limited company, to pay ₹1,737 crore damages to IDBI Bank.IDBI was the lead banker to have financed the Kundli Manesar Palwal (KMP) expressway project before the concession agreement with the initially appointed contractor was terminated in March 2015 on account of default. The fresh financial burden comes at a time when owing to Covid lockdowns the state government is dependent on market borrowings to raise resources for running its day to day affairs and the HSIIDC is also facing financial crisis on account of huge accumulated debt and annual interest burden of Rs 1000 crore.The bank had filed a case before the tribunal stating that HSIIDC had in 2015 awarded the execution of the balance work of the expressway to two contractors in utter disregard of rights of senior lenders and in breach of its obligation under the substitution agreement and other financing documents. The substitution agreement conferred a right to senior lenders to step in or substitute the contractor.The tribunal comprising three former Supreme Court judges – Justices RM Lodha, KS Panicker Radhakrishnan and J Chelameswar – in its March 24 order said had HSIIDC not acted in breach of the substitution agreement, the new concessionaire while getting the contract for completion of the balance work would have taken over the liability relating to the dues of senior lenders arising from the loan disbursed to the project contractor. Actually, this is the amount claimed by the IDBI as damages, the tribunal held.“The IDBI Bank is thus entitled to damages amounting to ₹1,737 crore from HSIIDC to offset the loss suffered due to breach of the substitution agreement. The extent of damages is the total principal amount outstanding as on May 31, 2016, (₹1,027 crore) and the interest during this period amounting to ₹709 crore,” the order said.“The sum would be paid in four equal instalments of about ₹434 crore on or before June 30, 2020, September 30, December 32 and March 31, 2021.When asked about the payment of damages to the lending banks, HSIIDC managing director Anurag Aggarwal said the board of directors has decided to challenge the arbitral tribunal orders in Delhi high court.The tribunal also said that HSIIDC will be entitled to reimbursement of such amount from IDBI which it would recover from KMP Expressways Ltd, the SPV appointed for implementing the project, towards its outstanding dues pursuant to the orders of the debt recovery tribunal.The previous Congress regime had proposed ₹1,300 crore payment for terminating the concession agreement with the then contractor of the e-way project.The project, which was first allotted to M/s KMP Expressways Ltd during the Congress rule, had got derailed as it was mired in legal and financial complications. Looking for a “bail out”, the then Congress government decided to go beyond the provisions of the concession agreement, thereby terminating the deal with mutual consent and giving the project to a new company.As part of the bail-out plan, the previous government had also decided the termination payment of about ₹1,300 crore to be paid to M/s KMP Expressways and the project lenders by the new company. The ₹1,300 crore fixed as termination payment was on account of the work done on the delayed project by the then contractor. The BJP government, however, rejected the ₹1,300-crore payment, saying the project cost was less than that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/arbitral-tribunal-slaps-1-737-crore-damages-on-hsiidc/story-lNwBtDSQDa05AZGqYjORZJ.html
27-05-2020||City||Pbi varsity fails to pay pensioners for April, advances semester fee date||Struggling to meet its committed expenditure, mainly payments of pensions and salaries, due to acute financial crisis, the Punjabi University has now directed students to submit fee by June 8.Around 2,000 former employees have not been paid pension for April till date.The varsity’s proposed expenditure on committed expenses is pegged at ₹241.8 crore. The monthly expenditure on clearing pensions is ₹4.5 crore.As per the budgetary proposals for 2020-21 fiscal, the university is expected to generate an annual income of ₹218.3 crore from academic fees and registration charges.“It is sad on the part of university authorities to demand semester fee from students by June 8 to meet its committed expenses. Moreover, the varsity is putting a financial burden on the students and their parents at the time of pandemic, which has already affected the savings of every household,” said Varinder Khurana, state secretary of All India Students Federation.He added that the varsity has also advanced the last date of submitting fee by June 8 as earlier the semester fee was charged in July.In a notification issued by the varsity, fee deposited after the due date will attract fine.On the other hand, pensioners say this is for the first time in the history that the varsity failed to clear their monthly dues.“It seems that the varsity is going through a financial crunch as fee as it has to depend upon students to pay salaries and pensions. If the situation persists longer, the employees will not be paid in the coming month too,” said a senior professor who returned recently.It may be mentioned that the varsity has failed to implement the repeated orders of the Supreme Court and the high court to ensure that pensioners are paid between the 7th and the 10th of each month. For not doing this, the university has to pay 10% interest.Varsity registrar Prof Manjit Singh Nijjar said the pensions were delayed due to dearth of funds. “We are still waiting for the funds. On the notification regarding fee submission, he said even that shall not serve the purpose and the university might consider changing the dates for depositing semester fee,” Prof Nijjar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pbi-varsity-fails-to-pay-pensioners-for-april-advances-semester-fee-date/story-5jgcOIt7BnP9SGzov4VrqI.html
27-05-2020||City||15 returnees test positive in a day in Mahendergarh||Mahendergarh district on Tuesday witnessed a spike in Covid-19 cases after 15 persons, who had returned from other states, tested positive on Tuesday.So far, the district has reported 36 cases, which include 34 returnees, a Mahendergarh resident who had brought his father, a Rajasthan Police employee from Delhi, and his one contact. The district has 30 active cases and 6 patients have returned home after recovery.Mahendergarh civil surgeon Dr Ashok Kumar said the district reported 15 cases on Tuesday, and all of the infected persons had returned home from other states recently.“The new cases have been reported from 13 different villages and one patient belongs to Adarsh Nagar in Mahendergarh. The patients had returned from Delhi, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Rajasthan. The cases include a barber, two Delhi Police cops, a 23-year-old student, two health workers, a tailor and carpenter and among others whose professions are yet to be ascertained,” the civil surgeon said.He said all the new patients except a Delhi policeman, who had returned on May 23, have been admitted to the isolation ward of the Covid-hospital in Narnaul.MAHENDERGARH SAW 36 CASES IN 19 DAYSMahendergarh had recently become the second district in Haryana to lose the green zone tag on May 8 after two government railway police (GRP) personnel tested positive for coronavirus disease.However, before May 8, Mahendergarh district administration was being praised for not letting the deadly virus enter its territory even though it shared border with Rajasthan.SURVEILLANCE HELPED IN DETECTING CASESThe civil surgeon said proper surveillance and testing has helped the district administration in detecting the infection among people returning from other states.“People coming from other states are being monitored by doctors and health workers. We have asked the returnees to strictly go into home quarantine and approach us if they notice any symptoms of Covid-19. All the patients, except one of the contacts of an infected man from Mahendergarh, had contracted the disease in other states before returning home,” Dr Kumar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/15-returnees-test-positive-in-a-day-in-mahendergarh/story-xlHEhAR3SRwQXAqn0FzzNI.html
27-05-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 brings fresh challenges for Maharashtra’s MVA govt||The Uddhav Thackeray-led government in Maharashtra is feeling the heat over the handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, with the rise in the number of cases and fatalities. The state now has 54,758 Covid-19 cases, with Mumbai making up nearly three-fourths at 32,974 cases.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday hit out at the Thackeray-led government with former chief minister and leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis alleging the Thackeray-led government has lost its grip on the situation and Maharashtra needs “assertive leadership and bold decision-making”. In an online press conference on Tuesday evening, Fadnavis pointedly ruled out the claim that his party was making any attempts to bring down the government. “In Mumbai, people are dying on the streets, hospitals are overcharging ... The numbers of cases and fatalities are alarming. On an average, we have done 3,500 tests every day for the last month and we have case positivity of 32% against the national average of 4.5%,” said Fadnavis. “We are not a part of these statements or discussions. We are in no rush to form the government. We are focussing only on battling the coronavirus. The governor makes observations and independently reports to the Centre. We will continue to pressurise the government to wake up and address the grim situation before them...This government will fall on its own due to its internal contradictions.”BJP MP Narayan Rane (who met the governor on Monday), sought President’s rule or Army’s help to tackle the situation.There have also been hectic movements in the Raj Bhavan over last week, starting with Fadnavis leading the ‘Maharashtra Bachao’ agitation to governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari complaining against the state to NCP chief Sharad Pawar paying a “customary visit” and Rane calling for dismissal of the government. What has worsened the situation and public perception for Thackeray was Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s statement that his party was part of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi, but did not have a significant say in running the government. The Congress is part of the MVA government with 11 ministers in the Thackeray’s cabinet. “We are only supporting the government and are not a key player,” said Gandhi. Fadnavis slammed the statement and said the Congress was shirking its responsibility.Clarifying on claims of bias, Fadnavis said the Centre had given the state nearly ₹28,000 crore in the past three months through food subsidies, devolution of taxes, direct benefit transfer, assistance for migrant labourers and health equipment. Both NCP chief Sharad Pawar and Sena MP Sanjay Raut rebuffed the claims of “instability” and “inefficiency”. Pawar said, “There are no differences in the MVA, there is no doubt that the government will last the entire term. It’s surprising that the BJP thinks the government in unstable. The meeting with the governor was customary. We are all focussing on coronavirus pandemic.” In an interview to NDTV, he also slammed Fadnavis for being “impatient”. “This period is painful for the Opposition. Politics is in quarantine. They must be doing this [speculating about the fall of the government] to kill their time. The Thackeray government of Congress, NCP and Shiv Sena will complete its full term,” said Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut, speaking to reporters on Tuesday. He added that Pawar met Thackeray to discuss the course of action for the state. “What is the harm in taking Pawar saheb’s suggestions and guidance on these matters? As you know, the country’s prime minister too takes his guidance.”Pawar met Thackeray for 1.5 hours. This was his third meeting with the chief minister in recent weeks.Responding to demands of President’s rule in Maharashtra, Raut said, “The situation in Gujarat is perfect for President’s rule. The Gujarat high court’s observations are serious. The governor there should summon the [Gujarat] CM and the Opposition party in Maharashtra should go there and launch an agitation.”The state Congress also slammed the BJP saying they must first focus on their own states of Gujarat and UP.Maharashtra Congress’s general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said the Gujarat High Court had remarked that the hospitals in Ahmedabad were “as good as dungeons”. “Even advocate general of the Gujarat government has admitted in his affidavit submitted to the court that the government was testing less as they fear that 70% of the population in Ahmedabad will be revealed infected if the tests are done. This means a minimum of 40 lakh people in Ahmedabad alone are infected people. The situation in other BJP-ruled states like Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh is no different,” said Sawant.NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik rushed to the defence of Gandhi and said there was nothing wrong in his statement. “It is a coalition government of three parties and we are all working together.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tough-times-ahead-for-maharashtra-cm/story-K7PMI8pQPLv8Glu3asezFO.html
27-05-2020||City||ICMR team takes blood samples to assess Ludhiana residents’ immunity against coronavirus||A team of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) from Delhi visited various areas of the district on Tuesday and took random samples of blood of residents to check the level of immunity against coronavirus.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga said, “An ICMR team from Delhi visited Baddowal village under Sudhar block, Majri village under Sidhwanbet, Doraha under Payal, Ghungrali village under Manupur, Sham Nagar in the city and took random blood samples of people for testing. The purpose of taking samples is to check the level of immunity of the people against Covid-19.”“The team will take a total of 400 samples. It will then separate plasma from the blood and send it to the ICMR’s Chennai-based institute for analysis at the central level. This analysis will make it easier to understand the extent of antibodies in humans in the district,” said Dr Bagga.“From the survey, the team will also assess as to what stage the exposure of coronavirus has spread in the community. The survey report will be compiled at the national level followed by the statewide data,” he added.The civil surgeon said only four districts of Punjab were selected for the survey. The survey was first conducted in Patiala, followed by Jalandhar and then in Gurdaspur. Now the survey was being carried out in Ludhiana, he said. The team is covering 69 districts of 21 states of the country. The districts have been selected by the ICMR through GPS based cluster selectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/icmr-team-takes-blood-samples-to-assess-ludhiana-residents-immunity-against-coronavirus/story-CgmA3LxxlD5SWZbhCQWDWM.html
27-05-2020||Delhi||250 homes gutted in Tughlaqabad fire||A fire in a slum in South Delhi’s Tughlaqabad in the early hours of Tuesday destroyed at least 250 homes. Social distancing norms, in place to control the spread of Covid-19, were ignored as the tragedy left many with just the clothes on their backs.Authorities said there were no casualties in the fire and that it was likely caused by a short-circuit.According to Atul Garg, chief fire officer (Delhi Fire Services), the fire broke out around 12.45am in Tughlaqabad village . The department deployed 28 fire tenders that took four hours to douse the flame and another two hours to finish the cooling operation.“The operation was difficult because the slum is on a hilly terrain, the area is poorly lit and the materials with which the homes were constructed were highly inflammable,” said Garg, adding that there was no real threat of his men contacting Covid-19 as they didn’t have to rescue the residents who had escaped by then.The impact of the blaze was such that exploding cylinders flew across a wide road, affecting a smaller cluster of jhuggis on the other side. RP Meena, deputy commissioner of police (south-east), said: “We are yet to ascertain the trigger for the blaze, but we suspect it was due to short-circuit. We are registering a case.”Rinku Mandal, a scrap dealer, said that dense smoke woke her up. “I had withdrawn all my savings of ₹16,000 when the lockdown began. While trying to save my three children from the fire, I forgot about the notes,” she said, holding a plate of yellow rice in her hands.There were many like Mandal and even more like Ram Phal, a restaurant employee who lost 35 kg of rice and wheat. “Many of us had hoarded food to keep us going during the lockdown,” he said. His family now took shelter under a cloth supported by four sticks.Many wished they had returned to their home villages after the lockdown was imposed from March 25 to control the spread of Covid-19. “I stayed back in the hope that the lockdown would be lifted. I returned to work as a domestic help just a week ago, but now I am back to where I was when I moved to Delhi four years ago,” said Aklima Khatoon, a 45-year-old woman.People from the neighbourhood came out to provide relief. Mazhar Alam, a teacher, and his friends collected ₹6,000 from the neighbourhood colonies to prepare food and buy water. Kakoli Das, a domestic help, collected used clothes to distribute to the slum dwellers.“We tried to practice social distancing all this while, but now it may not be possible anymore,” said Parvez Ali, an e-rickshaw driver who allowed a family of four to move in to his home. A few unaffected homes that were unoccupied -- their owners had returned to their home towns and villages during the lockdown -- were quickly occupied by those affected.By early afternoon, the government began setting up tents to serve as a temporary solution.“We are trying to ensure social distancing. We’ll provide them space and meals till the time they can rebuild their homes,” said BL Meena, sub-divisional magistrate of Kalkaji.By late afternoon, the Delhi government announced a financial aid of ₹25,000 to each affected family. The families will be provided food and accommodation in the nearest government school, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said.A few slum dwellers, meanwhile, tried to salvage whatever they could from the burnt debris. “I have collected all the burnt items from my jhuggi. I’ll see if I can find the gold ornaments I had purchased for my daughter’s future,” said Sapan, a scrap dealer. No one in his six-member family wore masks. “For us, life is no more about coronavirus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/250-homes-gutted-in-tughlaqabad-fire/story-EdgcedLrlIsWa5QtGv8OiM.html
27-05-2020||Noida||Borders turn choke points as UP tightens travel rules||Long traffic jams were reported on Tuesday from Delhi’s borders with Noida and Ghaziabad as the Uttar Pradesh government tightened restrictions on the movement of commuters in a bid to contain the spread of Covid-19 infections in the state.At UP Gate near Ghazipur, where Ghaziabad shares a border with east Delhi, commuters were stranded after the police did not allow people, barring exempted categories, to enter the capital on district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey’s orders .The Ghaziabad administration had on Monday again restricted movement between Delhi and Ghaziabad, citing an increase in Covid-19 cases with links to Delhi, especially since the beginning of May.“There were jams at the border as we conducted checks in compliance with the district magistrate’s order . We have opened the UP Gate and Anand Vihar-Kaushambi border, but people are allowed passage to Delhi only on the basis of passes issued by the administration,” Anshu Jain, Indirapuram’s circle officer, said.“So far, we have allowed passage to vehicles involved in essential services at UP Gate,” she said.Jaivir Singh from Vaishali in Ghaziabad, one of those stuck at UP Gate on Tuesday, said he was not allowed entry to Delhi.“I was sent back by cops who said I need a pass to go to Delhi. The Delhi government opened its offices and the Ghaziabad police are not allowing us to cross the borders even though I showed them my official ID,” Singh, who works with the municipal corporation of Delhi, said.Neeraj Kumar, who works with a private company in Lajpat Nagar said: “The police did not allow me entry to Delhi and I had to return home,” Kumar, a resident of Sanjay Nagar, Ghaziabad, said. Vehicles engaged in essential services have been allowed to move without any restrictions while doctors, paramedics, police and bank employees will be asked to produce their identification cards.Likewise, media persons and lawyers can also cross by showing their identity cards. Employees of private firms with offices in Delhi will have to apply for passes.At the Noida border, snarls continued at all three border checkpoints with Delhi -- the DND Flyway, Kalindi Kunj, and Mayur Vihar -- especially during peak hours. Despite relaxations in the fourth phase of the lockdown allowing interstate movement of public, the Gautam Budh Nagar administration continues to keep its border sealed, allowing only vehicles of essential services, lawyers, travellers with confirmed tickets and people with administrative passes to pass through.“Traffic volume has gone up since all offices in Delhi and Noida are now open and to manage the situation, we have opened more lanes on DND Flyway (the access-controlled highway connecting Delhi and Noida). But there are still many people out there who are trying to travel without any particular reason,” deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Sankalp Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jams-continue-at-noida-ghaziabad-borders/story-kd2lxwd0L7mUhKWfw8pdlK.html
27-05-2020||Delhi||First case in IGI air traffic control after staffer tests +ve, 17 in home quarantine||A Delhi air traffic controller tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, the day domestic flight services partially resumed after two months, since the nationwide lockdown to control the disease was enforced. Air Traffic Control (ATC) officials said flight operations were unaffected as they had measures in place to prevent such an outbreak and contingency plans in case an outbreak occurs in this critical arm of the airport.The new ATC duty roster, in place to control the spread of infection among employees, gives at least 10 days’ rest to each controller. Senior officers said the infected controller was last on duty on May 17. With airport services yet to fully resume, only minimal staff members are required to keep operations running. Vineet Gulati, member, Air Navigation Services, said keeping in mind the sensitivity of their job, they had enforced strict social distancing measures. “The infected controller had first tested negative for the virus, but then a second test returned positive on Monday. He is asymptomatic and under home quarantine. Seventeen other ATC officers who came in close contact with him have been asked to quarantine themselves at home,” he said.An ATC official, who asked not to be named, said the officer may have contracted the disease from his daughter, who had tested positive for the virus earlier. Authorities have since sanitised the main access areas of the 26-storey control tower. The Delhi ATC has a strength of around 400 controllers and handles at least 1,300 flight operations every day on average in normal times. On Monday, the first day of resumption of services, around 380 flights (both arrivals and departures) were scheduled to take place, of which 82 were cancelled. On Tuesday, the airport saw 137 departures, 147 arrivals and 25 cancellations.ATC officials said the new roster has been in force since March when flight operations were suspended in the country in view of the lockdown. “Earlier, 60 controllers used to work a shift, but from March, this was down to only 20 per shift. From the March 25 to till May 25, flight operations were not even 5% of what we usually handle, so 20 controllers are enough to do the job. We are keeping 40 controllers on standby at any given time. If any controller shows signs of an illness, we can ask the entire shift to quarantine themselves and a fresh lot of controllers can take over without delay ensuring round-the-clock operation of the ATC,” an ATC officer, who did not wish to be named, said.Gulati said strict social distancing is in force at the control room. Another ATC officer said a number of precautions and sanitisation measures are in place to ensure minimal chance of infection. “If the ATC is crippled due to the infection, it will be another jolt to the aviation sector that has just resumed partial services. If cases multiply at some pace, it will be difficult for us to fill in for the controllers. Following the safety guidelines, we have placed self-dispensing hand sanitisers, the entire building is fumigated and workstations are cleaned after every shift. All controllers are required to wear masks and gloves while working. Even in other areas, physical distancing rules are being followed and our staff is seated at an adequate distance from each other. All necessary measures are being taken,” said the second ATC officer requesting anonymity.The new protocols, however, do not require officers to test themselves for Covid-19 before attending to their duties.In the last 24 hours, at least 18 central industrial security force (CISF) personnel deputed at the airport also tested positive for the virus.“All were at the CISF’s isolation facility for the last 10 days. Contact tracing is being done and their families have also been asked to quarantine themselves at home,” said a CISF spokesperson, adding that the force now has 54 confirmed cases in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-air-traffic-control-reports-first-coronavirus-positive-case-17-quarantined/story-eAnkBefTqVGV66LBHIIwoL.html
27-05-2020||Delhi||Around 271k migrants have left Delhi aboard 214 special trains: Sisodia||Around 271,000 stranded migrants left Delhi aboard 214 Shramik Special trains between May 7 and May 26, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Tuesday, even as he urged people to apply for train passes through the government portal instead of walking back to their home towns.“Between May 7 and Monday, around 241,000 people left Delhi for their home states in as many as 196 trains arranged by the government. On Tuesday, another 18 trains left Delhi with around 30,000 more people… The highest number of trains have left for Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, and then to other states that include West Bengal, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh,” said Sisodia.He further said, “All passengers are screened at designated centres and only asymptomatic individuals are allowed to travel, after a list is prepared. Other than paying for their train tickets, the government also provides them food and water.”Under the rules drafted by the central government, the states send requests for trains to specific destinations to the Union rail ministry. “We want to tell people that we have adequate arrangements for them in the city in terms of food and shelter. If they still want to go, we request them to apply for trains through the government portal instead of starting journeys on foot,” said Sisodia in a video press briefing.He also said the city currently has 2,500 hunger centres that provide people in need with meals twice a day. “The number of people in hunger centres is slowly reducing, with more migrants leaving the city,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/around-271k-migrants-have-left-delhi-aboard-214-special-trains-sisodia/story-kDPumJxwNB4EzRHlPMyIjP.html
27-05-2020||Pune||Man bludgeoned to death in Pune||A 23-year-old man with a criminal record was found bludgeoned to death in Hadapsar on Tuesday morning.The deceased man was identified as Basavraj alias Bashya Kamble, a resident of Ashtavinayak colony in Hadapsar. He was found to be a member of a local gang and has a record of cases against him at Hadapsar police station. He was found with his head bashed in with a hard object like a rock.The police are looking for suspects in the case. A case under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Hadapsar police station against unidentified people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-bludgeoned-to-death-in-hadapsar/story-Iin0nYlPQ7Pf9iBEMQhNiM.html
27-05-2020||Pune||No mask, no ride: PMPML buses begin plying in Pimpri-Chinchwad||Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) began to ply its public buses in Pimpri-Chinchwad twin on Tuesday, after close to two months.PMPML’s bus service has not resumed in Pune.There was a mixed response from commuters on the first day of the reopening.Among the social distancing ruled that commuters have to now follow is that only 21 passengers are allowed per bus. Passengers are also to be seated in a zig-zag manner, as per seat markings and no standing passengers are allowed on the bus.At the Nigdi bus stop, commuters must first sanitise their hands before entering the bus. Sanitisation facilities have been deployed at the bus stops.All passengers must wear masks and no children below the ag10 and senior citizens above the age of 65 will be allowed to board the buses.Nayana Gunde, chairman and managing director, PMPML, said: “PMPML buses have resumed in Pimpri-Chinchad because it is free from red zones. We have allowed the buses to operate at 50 per cent capacity. The three depots in PCMC areas, namely Pimpri, Bhosari and Nigdi, will have 80 buses ply from Tuesday.”Gunde added, “The buses started mostly in industrial pockets like Bhosari, Chakan and Hinjewadi IT sectors. The buses will be sanitised at regular intervals. In addition, special sanitising teams have also been deployed at bus stops to clean the metal handles and seats. The conductors were asked not to allow , on board any passenger who did not have face mask on.”She also said that PMPML also planned to keep sanitaisers inside the buses.Pornima Jagtap, a passenger from Dehuroad said, “There is a fear in the mind. I kept the sanitiser bottle in my bag and applied it after touching the bars of buses. I am travelling by bus after a gap of three months.”Sadashiv Kale, a passenger from Nigdi , said, “It is good thing that the authorities have started the bus facility because the companies are functioning, so it has been difficult for us to commute.”Sarita Gaikwad, a passenger going to Kamshet from Nigdi, said, “I have never seen a PMPML bus with so many vacant seats and no rush at the bus stops. The authorities have taken all the safety measures.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/no-mask-no-ride-pmpml-buses-begin-plying-in-pimpri-chinchwad/story-1nBfQAXPfDv3POsl8FgmLJ.html
27-05-2020||Pune||In action plan to reopen Pune’s Tulshibaug, business and shopping will not override safety||On any given day, Tulshibaug market on Bajirao road teems with action. However, the last two months have been an exception, as Covid-19 (coronavirus) cast a shadow over the market.Businesses are making a comeback as the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is easing the lockdown restrictions and Pune’s iconic Tulshibaug market will reopen in a few days, said officials.Nitin Pandit, secretary Tulshibaug shop owners association said, “We had a meeting with the PMC commissioner last week and will submit our action plan to reopen the market. There are 300 shops and 300 hawkers registered at Tulshibaug. The market has six lanes. One lane will have 10 shops open, five on each side with proper social distancing. So 60 shops will be open and one shop will get a chance to be open twice a week,” he said.“We will keep sanitiser stands outside all shops. Security guards will be present at the entrance of the lanes, where thermal screening will take place. Shops will be open from 10am to 7pm. Shop owners will not allow workers residing in containment zones to enter the market. The market will open in the next three to four days after a final meeting with the commissioner,” added Pandit.Vinayak Kadam, vice-president of Tulshibaug small shops and hawkers association said, “We are not going to start our hawkers business immediately, to avoid overcrowding. We will look at the response to the shop owners and what all precautions they are taking, and then slowly we will also start our business.”PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said, “I have met with the association. Once they share their plan, we will study it and if feasible to give some relaxations to open the market. Norms will have to be followed curb the virus spread.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/in-action-plan-to-reopen-tulshibaug-business-and-shopping-will-not-override-safety/story-BhTPWyYOHDDADfAzjTF9kM.html
27-05-2020||Pune||Pune radio telescope helps discover new class of powerful astronomical explosions||The Giant Metrewave Radio Telescope (GMRT) near Pune, operated by the National Centre for Radio Astrophysics of the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (NCRA-TIFR), has helped a team of international scientists discover a new class of powerful astronomical explosions caused by a Fast Blue Optical Transient (FBOT) named CSS161010..While supernova- the super-powerful explosion of a star- is the biggest explosion seen by humans- the discovery of the FBOT named CSS161010 in late 2016, and follow-up radio and X-ray observations, revealed that it is more powerful than a normal supernova, NCRA scientist Poonam Chandra said at a press conference here on Tuesday. “What makes these luminous FBOTs unique is they prima facie look like supernova explosions, but flare up and vanish much faster. They’re also extremely hot, hence appear more blue in color than the standard supernovae, the NCRA scientist said. This FBOT can eject large amount of material into space-- 1 to 10 percent the mass of the Sun-- at speeds close to half the speed of light, thus proving to be a new class of transient,” she said. “CSS161010 is the second closest FBOT and lies at a distance of around 500 million light years,” said Deanne Coppejans, a postdoctoral fellow at Northwestern University. Data from the GMRT along with the Karl G. Jansky Very Large Array (VLA) at Soccorro, New Mexico and the Chandra X-Ray Telescope deployed on the space shuttle Columbia, was used for the research into this astronomical discovery. “The GMRT provided the most crucial measurement at low radio frequencies to estimate the speed of the ejected material. This is only the second such highly-luminous transient known and this discovery establishes a new class of transients with extremely powerful central engine,” Chandra said. She along with A. J. Nayana, represented NCRA-TIFR and worked together with Deanne Coppejans and R. Margutti from Northwestern University; Mari-Ela Chock from W.M. Keck Observatory and several others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-radio-telescope-helps-discover-new-class-of-powerful-astronomical-explosions/story-HsJCXqwchBYY42zVi2p1VL.html
27-05-2020||Pune||Two corporators in Pimpri-Chinchwad detained, released for opposing civic body’s action||Pune: Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) corporator Raju Misal and Shiv Sena corporator Amit Gawade were detained on Tuesday as they opposed the civic body’s preventive step to quarantine residents at Pimpri Chinchwad College of Engineering, which falls under a green zone in Akurdi Pradhikaran.The two Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) corporators were later released.Rajendrakumar Rajmane, senior inspector of Ravet police chowky, said, “They were charged under Sections 68 and 69 of the Bombay Police Act, 1951 on Tuesday and released after two hours as per the notice served under Section 149 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), 1973.”The two corporators had opposed PCMC move to quarantine people in the educational institute located in the densely populated residential area of Pradhikaran.Misal and Gawade, along with residents from the area, staged a protest on Saturday and Sunday in front of the Pimpri Chinchwad College of Engineering, sector 26, Akurdi Pradhikaran.Protestors put beds in front of the gate of the college and staged protest throughout the night. The civic body has quarantined 14 people inside the campus.The residents in quarantine belong to the Anandnagar slums located in Chinchwad, a red-zone belt.PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar told them that the opposition in the Akurdi Pradhikaran area was wrong because it’s a question of the entire city.Misal said, “In the afternoon the police told us to accompany them. The civic body did not take us into confidence while taking such big decision. They should have informed the corporators.”He said the residents in the locality, for the last two-and-a-half months, have been strictly following social distancing and taking necessary precautions, so the area falls in a green zone. PCMC should shift these people to a school located in Anandnagar.Meanwhile, the residents were upset over the action taken by the authority and said that the corporators had taken the step for the safety of senior citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-corporators-detained-released-for-opposing-pcmc-action/story-KPNiaYST0jccqbJL97w5KN.html
27-05-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: Ludhiana police launch exercise module for cops on frontline||Ludhiana police with the help of Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) doctors have made an exercise module for the police personnel on field duty during the coronavirus lockdown. As per the police officials, some of the police personnel have complained of body aches and pain in neck and joints. With the help of the new module, they can do exercise two to three times a day to relax their muscles while performing their duty.Dr Shekhar Singhal and Dr Ajay Kumar have made a three-minute exercise module for the same.‘DUTY HOURS STRETCHED’Ghumar Mandi police post in-charge sub-inspector Kulbir Singh said, “Amid the lockdown, our duty hours have been stretched. We are performing duty for 12-13 hours daily due to which we are facing physical problems, including body aches and pain in neck, joints and back. Despite these problems, we cannot ignore our duty.”Dr Shekhar Singhal said they are giving demonstration of the brief workout to the police personnel on frontline duty. “The exercises include stretching of neck, leg muscles and patting self on the lower back,” he said. Deputy commissioner of police (headquarters) Akhil Chaudhary said the department has already launched a physiology helpline and a mobile medical unit for the police personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-ludhiana-police-launch-exercise-module-for-police-personnel-working-on-frontline/story-gaTZYmZDWJkTSHdG9Au20O.html
27-05-2020||Pune||Drop in footfall hits revenue at Pune’s Katraj Zoo; development programmes halted||Animal exchange and other development programmes at the Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park and Wildlife Research Centre, Katraj, have come to a halt due to Covid-19 and drop in revenue.Rajkumar Jadhav, the zoo’s director, said the centre had undertaken construction of four new cages for large cats like leopards and jungle cats and had finished about 80% of the work. However, that work remained incomplete due to the lockdown.The animal exchange programme with the Hyderabad zoo to exchange a Royal Bengal tiger at the Katraj zoo with a white Royal Bengal tiger at Hyderabad zoo had not progressed, he said.The zoo was hoping to touch a revenue of Rs 5.50 crore for the current financial year, but that is unlikely due to drop in footfall and loss of revenue after the Covid-19 pandemic, he said.The zoo has remained closed to the public since March 14. On any normal weekday, the zoo would see 5,000-10,000 visitors while on weekends, the number would rise to 12,000-18,000 visitors, he said.The zoo currently has 448 animals and about 100 staffers who keep the zoo guarded and take care of animals. Jadhav said the staff at the zoo has been coming regularly as they are also part of essential services, and have been provided with gumboots, gloves and masks while looking after animals or even otherwise.Only the staff living in red zone areas are not allowed to come, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/drop-in-footfall-hits-revenue-at-katraj-zoo-development-programmes-halted/story-UuMP4Y8YouQ7soGWlMvuoJ.html
27-05-2020||Pune||High mortality Covid rate at Pune’s Sassoon continues to remain an issue||Pune: Sassoon General Hospital, under focus for high mortality rate during April, continues to report higher number of Covid-19 deaths.According to statistics shared by the health department, the government-run hospital has mortality rate of 35.42% as on May 26 even as the Pune Municipal Corporation figure remains at 5.09%.Dr Ajay Chandanwale, the hospital dean, was transferred to Mumbai as joint director, directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) on April 17. Dr Chandanwale was replaced by Dr Murlidhar Tambe as the acting dean of BJ Medical College and Sassoon General Hospital. The hospital administration has been maintaining from the beginning that most patients who were admitted came at a very critical stage.According to Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar, of the 264 Covid deaths in Pune, 89% had pre-existing ailments while 11% did not have any other illness. “Most of them who died after contracting Covid were senior citizens,” said Mhaisekar.On the high mortality rate, Mhaisekar said, the Sassoon mortality rate had peaked in the middle of April and things are relatively better now. “It is true that the mortality rate at Sassoon as compared to other hospitals is high as maximum number of critical patients are visiting the hospital.” According to Mhaisekar, of the 125 patients who are critical and in ICU, 47 are in Sassoon alone.As of May 25, Pune reported 5,181 progressive positive cases out of which 2,182 were active and still admitted in hospitals. The city also reported 264 deaths and as of Monday, there were 179 critical patients. Out of these Sassoon hospital alone had reported 446 positive cases out of which 158 are still in hospital as active cases and out of those 57 are in critical condition. Out of the 264 deaths reported in PMC limits, 139 were reported from Sassoon alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/high-mortality-rate-at-pune-s-sassoon-continues-to-remain-an-issue-even-after-change-of-guard/story-2fc9RjmIWLpRToqDGy2qSO.html
27-05-2020||City||Factory worker dies in road mishap in Ludhiana, wife escapes unhurt||A 32-year-old factory worker died in a road mishap while his 30-year-old wife had a miraculous escape after their motorcycle crashed into a truck near Old Octroi Post in Nandpur, Sahnewal, police said on Tuesday.After the incident, the truck driver fled from the spot.Wife of the victim, Rajan Kumar, of Pakka Darwaja, Sahnewal, Simranjit Kaur, told police that they were going towards Ludhiana on their bike on Monday. When they reached near Old Octroi Post in Nandpur, a truck plying in front of them took a sharp turn following which her husband lost control over their bike and it crashed into the truck, she told the police, adding that her husband fell on the road and got crushed under the truck, while she fell on the other side and escaped unhurt.CASE REGISTEREDInvestigating official assistant sub-inspector Raghubir Singh said a case has been registered under Sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 304-A (causing death by negligence) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code against the accused identified as Bhupinder Singh of Kot Sekhon village, Ludhiana, at Sahnewal police station. A hunt is on for the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/factory-worker-dies-in-road-mishap-wife-escapes-unhurt/story-wuNrO3xKwuvH1eYSr4kIEO.html
27-05-2020||Chandigarh||84-year grandma a lockdown star with soulful singing of Punjabi folk song||When Mumbai-based actor Mansi Multani recorded a favourite song of her maternal grandmother and posted it on her Timeline on the Facebook she had not anticipated that it would become the quarantine hit.The folk song, ‘Paona hi main laal ghaghra’ (I want to wear a red skirt), was sung melodiously and went straight to the hearts of the people leading it to be shared copiously on social media and appearing in WhatsApp with the silver-haired beauty, charming one and all with her joie-de-vivre.A guessing game started on the singer’s identity and someone decided that this was the 93-year-old yesteryear film star Kamini Kaushal singing and thus the post circulated till rebuttals started coming from many music buffs, including Sunaini, grand-daughter of famous Punjabi singer late Surinder Kaur, who said: “The song is beautifully sung but she is not Kamini Kaushal auntie!”Certainly not, she is Romila Arora who had migrated with her family and parents from Lahore to Delhi at the time of The Partition in 1947. Looking back she says, “I was very fond of singing and would copy all the songs I heard. In Delhi, I would participate in the children’s singing programmes of All India Radio.” Her grand-daughter Mansi adds, “She could not pursue her music and after completing studies, she worked in the Punjab National Bank to augment the family income of the migrant family as she was the eldest of six siblings.” Mansi adds that her grandma had been her inspiration and it was this particular song which had become the grand finale for a prominent play ‘Piya Behrupia’, Atul Kumar’s musical adaptation of Shakespeare’s ‘Twelfth Night’ which was part of the London Cultural Olympics in 2012.Romila, who moved from Kolkata after her husband’s death, chose to live at a senior citizens’ complex in Bhiwadi to be independent as well as close to her children in Delhi. “I am very happy to be in Bhiwadi as I did not want to live in Delhi and they take good care of us here.” Mansi and she share a special bond, “I decided to record some of her songs to preserve the magic of her singing and I had no idea what a warm response she would get from the people!” Romila in turn adds, “Mansi is taking forward my love of music and it gives me joy to hear her sing so well!”An endearing shot before the singing is when grandma chides Mansi that it is important for her to arrange her ‘dupatta’ because the senior woman wants to look ‘nice’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/84-year-grandma-a-lockdown-star-with-soulful-singing-of-punjabi-folk-song/story-q2z0wOiyxQatXd72ubz9wO.html
27-05-2020||Pune||Sangamner’s youth undertake doorstep food delivery to avoid crowding||Daily wage earners, housemaids, and jobless restaurant workers are among the nearly 500 people in distress who are being provided with daily food and rations by a youth organisation in Sangamner taluka of Ahmednagar district.Inspired by Swami Vivekananda’s thought ‘Service to Mankind is service to God’ the youth brigade of Sangamner taluka on the Nashik-Pune highway, has been providing meals twice a day to the poor and the needy at their doorstep.These youths belong to Chatrapati Foundation Sangamner’s ‘Shiv Jayanti Ustav Yuvak Samiti’, a non-political youth organisation. They launched the ‘Annchtra’ (food security) programme in the Covid-19 lockdown period and have won the heart of many.The youths are engaged in managing, preparing and distributing meals twice a day to the needy families. Simultaneously, they have undertaken other social activities such as arranging fodders for stray cattle, grocery kits, sanitising drives in the town and providing drinking water to policemen on lockdown duty.Manish Malve, founder-member of the Samiti and a former president of the organisation said, “When the lockdown was declared in the entire state, we observed that the administrative staff and sanitary workers in the town need healthy and timely meals. We then started providing 100 tiffin boxes from March 23 itself.”They then saw the suffering of daily wagers and their teams studied the situation and collected data. “We unanimously decided to distribute grocery kits and food at the doorstep of these people. Since social distancing was important, we decided to deliver food at their doorstep,” he said.Samiti president Kalpesh Pogul said a team of 10 members was appointed to handle the cooking. They would cook the afternoon meal from 8 am to 11 am and start preparing the evening meal at 5 pm.“Once the food was ready, the other teams would make the parcels in disposable containers and then deliver them,” he said.Other prominent activists such as Rahul Nehulkar, Shailesh Kalntri and Amar Katari said the samiti has nearly 6,000 members and donations of Rs 2000 to 5000 were collected from each member to start the meal service. “We began from March 24 with 500 meals twice a day. People from the town have been contributing by donating vegetables and grocery items on their own. Our team members used their two-wheelers for doorstep delivery of meal parcels to families on time. These members bear the fuel cost for their work,” said Nehulkar.Kalantri said, “It gives us immense happiness that the youths in our town are engaged in this social cause.” He said that 300 grocery kits had been provided to needy families during the lockdown.Katari noted that volunteers from their team undertook fumigation drives in the entire town after there was panic over the Covid-19 positive cases that began surfacing.The Padmashali samaj offered its Markenday Mandir premises, located in the middle of the town, free of cost to run the community kitchen with some volunteers coming forward to assist with the cooking.Formed nine years ago, this youth organisation holds a grand event every year on the occasion of Shiv Jayanti, the birth anniversary of the warrior-king, Chhatrapati Shivaji. Social activities undertaken by this group includes distribution of notebooks to children from 150 school in the neighbouring villages; insurance policies for their members and assistance in times of adversity. adverse situations. Recently, this social welfare group helped a family in the rehabilitation of a rape victim.Beneficiaries speak:Seema Pardeshi, a household maid her family of seven members including three small children, husband and in-laws was facing a crisis in the lockdown. Her husband, who runs a saloon, was also out of work. The family survived on the daily meals distributed by Samiti, she said.“We received the meals on time. It would consist of chapati, bhaji, dal and rice. Sometimes, there would be sweets. Recently, we received aamrus (mango juice) and gulab jam,” she said.Raju Pavale, a restaurant worker who lives with his two sons, one of who is disabled, and old mother, said, “We had lost hopes of survival after the lockdown was announced. We are very grateful to this youth organisation for providing meals for the last 60 days,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sangamner-s-youth-undertake-doorstep-food-delivery-to-avoid-crowding/story-MfbkX3NXdMNBHKFOakPXuK.html
27-05-2020||Pune||Once basketball infrastructure is in place in India, players will benefit: Adi Vase||Adi Vase was five months old when he left Pune, but he still remembers St Vincent’s School, shrewsbury biscuits, and Irani chai – thanks to stories from his father which has kept his bond with the city intact. Spending his childhood in Dubai and then moving to the US to pursue his dream of being part of the National Basketball Association (NBA), Vase has done everything right to be a well-known name in the basketball circuit.Vase is currently the assistant performance coach for the Golden State Warriors and is urging to come back to Pune to spread the knowledge of basketball. “I have heard a lot of stories about Pune, the city has immense talent when it comes to basketball. Now, St Vincent’s School also has an indoor basketball court which is great news for the improvement of the sport. Definitely, I will return to the city where I was born, someday,” Vase said.According to Vase, in other parts of India as well there is a lot of talent but there is a lack of infrastructure for basketball in the country.“Once the infrastructure is in place, it will benefit players,” Vase said who wanted to become a basketball player, but switched to becoming a coach.“I was 17, (in Dubai) when I had a couple of knee injuries, and it made me take this decision. If I cannot play physically, I can still motivate and encourage my team and this brought me into the field of coaching,” Vase said. Vase said the decision to switch to coaching was very challenging. “You need to be self-aware as a player but as a coach, you need to keep track of your team and you need to keep them motivated even when the team loses and it is important to keep players in a healthy state of mind,” Vase said who used to play as a shooting guard and small forward during his playing days.NBA academies adding to popularityThe NBA is conducting many activities across India which is helping the sport reach the masses and attract more players.“In India, cricket is the most popular game and one needs just a bat and ball to play it, stumps could be made up of anything but for basketball, we need proper courts and NBA knows this and that’s why they have opened up academies in India. Once there is an academy in every part of the country, the game will easily grow,” Vase said.Focus on fitnessAccording to Vase, some Indian players reach a height of 7 feet, but if you are 6 feet 5 inches or 6 feet 8 inches, there is always a great demand in the NBA. “I think, soon there will be many Indian players who will be making the cut to the NBA. They just need to focus on fitness along with basketball. I have seen many Indian players, they have skills but fitness is something on which they don’t focus and it keeps them behind,” added Vase.Name: Adi VaseAge: 29Coach: Assistant performance coach, Golden State WarriorsBest players coached: Stephen Curry (Golden State Warriors), Kawhi Leonard (Los Angeles Clippers), Brandon Ingram (New Orleans Pelicans), Tim Duncan (San Antonio Spurs), Manu Ginobili (San Antonio Spurs)Favourite player: Stephen Curry (Golden State Warriors) - Great leadership skills and competitivenessPast coaching experience: Athletic development quality assurance assistant at San Antonio Spurs, Assistant strength and conditioning coach at Los Angeles Lakers. What NBA players are doing in lockdownIt is an uncertain time, especially for teams who are in the race for the playoffs and championship. Players are unsure whether they will play again, so all stars are working out to stay fit and healthy in case the season starts again and the NBA finishes the playoffs. Stars are also giving back to their community, throwing virtual graduation celebrations for many high school kids since schools are shut down. Additionally, many have taken time to do public service announcements in the fight against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/once-basketball-infrastructure-is-in-place-in-india-players-will-benefit-adi-vase/story-qV6a7xUQAGO6YfmW3nLGeO.html
27-05-2020||World||Trump, Biden take on each other over the issue of wearing face mask||As the United States deals with the sobering implications of the Covid-19 deaths nearing 100,000, a third of the global toll, President Donald Trump waged a culture war with Joe Biden - his presumptive Democratic challenger for the White House - over face masks that his own health officials have strongly recommended for Americans.Trump, who has refused to appear in public wearing a mask, started this round by retweeting a post Monday that had a picture of former vice-president Joe Biden wearing a mask. The tweet by Brit Hume read, “This might explain why Trump doesn’t like to wear a mask in public. Biden today.”Asked if he meant to criticise the former vice-president for wearing a mask, Trump, said Tuesday, “No, Biden can wear a mask, but he was standing outside with his wife -- perfect conditions, perfect weather. They’re inside, and they don’t wear masks.” This might help explain why Trump doesn’t like to wear a mask in public. Biden today. pic.twitter.com/9l1gw1ljBEPublic health officials have, in fact, recommended masks be worn whenever in social situations where social distancing is difficult, indoors or outdoors.Biden, whose picture on the post was taken during his visit to an event to commemorate Memorial Day, was right for wearing a mask in that situation. “He’s a fool, an absolute fool to talk that way,” Biden said in a CNN interview about the president. “Presidents are supposed to lead, not engage in folly and be falsely masculine.”Even at the time Trump announced recommendatory use of masks, as required by the Centers of Disease Control and Prevention early April, the president had said he won’t be wearing one, suggesting he had to deal with other heads of states and governments.And the president has steadfastly refused to wear one since. The one time he did, during a tour of an automobile manufacturing plant last week that had switched to making ventilators, he removed it before facing reporters.Masks have become a tool in a culture war in which some conservatives and right-wing activists have turned them into a sign of weakness. There have been instances in which people wearing masks have been shouted at by others at grocery stores and other public places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-biden-take-on-each-other-over-issue-of-wearing-face-masks/story-YVVhpNjIXsLEznVOTAyXyM.html
27-05-2020||World||PM Boris grilled on adviser row but won’t budge||Prime Minister Boris Johnson faced forensic questions on the conduct of his controversial chief adviser Dominic Cummings from members of the Liaison Committee of the House of Commons on Wednesday, but refused to budge on supporting him in the face of demands to sack him.Johnson and Cummings have been the subject of considerable anger and more across the UK for the latter breaching curbs imposed to deal with coronavirus. Johnson was accused by MPs of putting national health at risk by endangering public trust in official guidance by not dismissing the aide.Johnson again refused to order an inquiry into Cummings’ actions to drive over 260 miles in end-March when his family had virus symptoms, and when official advice was to stay at home. According to him, the inquiry would not be a good use of official time.Repeating that public discourse should now “move on”, Johnson said he understood the anger and indignation of millions of Britons who have flooded email inboxes of MPs on the issue. But he did not think that the row would encourage people to break guidance.He told MPs: “I know there is a great political interest in this and I totally understand the public indignation, but... I have said what I have said about the whole business and it would be much better if we could move on.”Nearly 40 Conservative MPs have openly asked Johnson to dismiss Cummings in order to dispel the growing impression – as borne out in opinion polls – that there is one rule for those in power and another for the people.The government is due to announce its latest assessment of the stage at which the UK is in dealing with the virus on Thursday. As of Wednesday, there have been 37,460 deaths and 267,240 cases in the UK, making it the worst affected in Europe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pm-boris-grilled-on-adviser-row-but-won-t-budge/story-KGX6a8oKhm9qTV1EvTsaBN.html
27-05-2020||World||Anthony Fauci says coronavirus vaccine in 2020 viable||Anthony Fauci, the U.S. government’s top infectious-disease expert, said there’s a “good chance” a vaccine may be deployable by November or December.Cases soared in Brazil, and police opened an investigation into Rio de Janeiro’s handling of the crisis, while Mexico had its deadliest day yet. The European Union will propose a fiscal package worth more than $800 billion, and Japan is planning new economic stimulus valued in excess of $1 trillion.The euro-area is faring worse than hoped, facing a recession as bad as the European Central Bank’s more pessimistic forecasts. In Britain, pressure mounted on Prime Minister Boris Johnson to fire his chief aide and the government may look at lockdowns on a local level if cases flare.U.S. fatalities approached the 100,000 level, though infections rose at the slowest pace since March and President Donald Trump unveiled plans to increase testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/anthony-fauci-says-coronavirus-vaccine-in-2020-viable/story-cN8NyEVLOabzzefiGc9u8O.html
27-05-2020||World||Trump threatens to ‘close down’ social media after Twitter fact check||President Donald Trump on Wednesday threatened social media companies with new regulation or even shuttering a day after Twitter added fact checks to two of his tweets.The president can’t unilaterally regulate or close the companies, which would require action by Congress or the Federal Communications Commission. But that didn’t stop Trump from angrily issuing a strong warning.Claiming tech giants “silence conservative voices,” Trump tweeted, “We will strongly regulate, or close them down, before we can ever allow this to happen.”And he repeated his unsubstantiated claim — which sparked his latest showdown with Silicon Valley — that expanding mail-in voting “would be a free for all on cheating, forgery and the theft of Ballots.”Trump and his campaign angrily lashed out Tuesday after Twitter added a warning phrase to two Trump tweets that called mail-in ballots “fraudulent” and predicted that “mail boxes will be robbed,” among other things. Under the tweets, there is now a link reading “Get the facts about mail-in ballots” that guides users to a Twitter “moments” page with fact checks and news stories about Trump’s unsubstantiated claims.Trump replied on Twitter, accusing the platform of “interfering in the 2020 Presidential Election” and insisting that “as president, I will not allow this to happen.” His 2020 campaign manager, Brad Parscale, said Twitter’s “clear political bias” had led the campaign to pull “all our advertising from Twitter months ago.” Twitter has banned all political advertising since last November.Trump did not explain his threat Wednesday, and the call to expand regulation appeared to fly in the face of long-held conservative principles on deregulation.But some Trump allies, who have alleged bias on the part of tech companies, have questioned whether platforms like Twitter and Facebook should continue to enjoy liability protections as “platforms” under federal law — or be treated more like publishers, which could face lawsuits over content.The protections have been credited with allowing the unfettered growth of the internet for more than two decades, but now some Trump allies are advocating that social media companies face more scrutiny.“Big tech gets a huge handout from the federal government,” Republican Sen. Josh Hawley told Fox News. “They get this special immunity, this special immunity from suits and from liability that’s worth billions of dollars to them every year. Why are they getting subsidized by federal taxpayers to censor conservatives, to censor people critical of China.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-threatens-to-close-down-social-media-after-twitter-fact-check/story-SYe4jfTR2kLZO0kE1Io7PI.html
27-05-2020||World||Pandemic creating ‘lockdown generation’ as one in six youths stop work: UN||The Covid-19 pandemic has caused surging unemployment worldwide, but has hit young workers especially hard, forcing more than one in six people aged under 29 to stop working, the UN said Wednesday.In a fresh study, the International Labour Organization warned that the novel coronavirus crisis has disproportionately affected young people, and could impact upon their work opportunities and career options for decades to come.“I don’t think it is giving way to hyperbole to talk about the danger of a lockdown generation,” ILO chief Guy Ryder told a virtual press conference.“As we recover from the pandemic, a lot of young people are simply going to be left behind. Big numbers,” he said, warning that “the danger is... that this initial shock to young people will last a decade or longer.“People will be permanently scarred by the immediate effects of the pandemic.”Even before the crisis, the global youth unemployment rate stood at 13.6 percent in 2019 -- far higher than for any other group -- while some 267 million young people were neither employed nor in education or training (NEET).Overall, the ILO study said it expected the coronavirus crisis to obliterate 10.7 percent of working hours worked globally during the second quarter of 2020 compared to the final three months of 2019 -- the equivalent of 305 million jobs.- ‘Massive increase’ -But while all age groups are suffering, the UN agency pointed to recent data from a range of countries indicating “a massive increase” in youth unemployment since February, with young women particularly hard-hit.In Canada for example, the overall jobless rate rose six percentage points from February to April, but for young men it swelled by 14.3 percentage points (to 27.1 percent) and for young women it ballooned by 20.4 percentage points to 28.4 percent.Similar trends were seen in the United States and a range of other countries, the report said.The ILO said it did not yet have enough data to determine the overall youth unemployment rate since the crisis began.But in a survey of people aged 29 and under, it found that globally, over 17 percent of those who were working when the pandemic hit had been forced to stop.And those who have continued to work have meanwhile seen their working hours cut on average by 23 percent, the study found.The report warned that young people are facing a “triple shock” from the crisis, which is not only destroying their employment but has also disrupted education and training, and has made it far more difficult to try to enter the labour market or move between jobs.It found that around half of students expect their education to be delayed, while 10 percent now believe they will be unable to complete their training at all.And a full 60 percent of young women and 53 percent of young men surveyed viewed their career prospects “with uncertainty or fear”, the report found.The ILO report called for an urgent and large-scale response to the crisis, including employment and training guarantee programmes for young people.“If their talent and energy is sidelined by a lack of opportunity or skills it will damage all our futures and make it much more difficult to re-build a better, post-Covid economy,” Ryder warned.- Step up testing, tracing -As a growing number of countries begin loosening lockdown measures, the ILO also called on them to step up testing and tracing of suspected Covid-19 cases to help get more people back to work. The report found that rigorous testing and tracing was “strongly related to lower labour market disruption”, with the average fall in working hours up to 50 percent lower in countries that had followed this path.This, it said, was linked to the fact that testing and tracing reduced the need for strict confinement measures, and boosted public confidence to visit shops and restaurants.It also stressed that testing and tracing could create new jobs, even if only temporary, which could be targeted at young people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pandemic-creating-lockdown-generation-as-one-in-six-youths-stop-work-un/story-qCRoMY5JJESbSy3xD1KXdJ.html
27-05-2020||World||In Wuhan, swab samples are being mixed to carry out quick group tests||Chinese health authorities in Wuhan carried out mixed testing of nose or throat swabs of residents to check for Covid-19 so that millions of samples could be tested in quick time, local media reports said.Between May 15 and 25, Wuhan medics tested more than 6.5 million residents, a state media report said, adding at least 218 among them were found to be asymptomatic.The current nucleic acid tests are being carried out after Wuhan where the coronavirus emerged late last year opened up on April 8 after a 76-day lockdown.Wuhan, a city of 11 million people, was badly affected by the outbreak, accounting for over 50,000 infections and around 3,800 deaths.The mass testing is part of China’s efforts to fortify against a potential “second wave” after a cluster of cases emerged in a residential community earlier this month.To carry out the tests in time, health workers collected and mixed 10 to 20 samples and carried out a single test on them; If the collected sample was positive, each individual was tested again to identify which person was positive.An unnamed medic told the Caixin news website that the authorities believed that the approach works well as long as the testing follows procedure.“Disease control agencies have used this approach before and trial testing is usually conducted in advance to set a minimum concentration level for testing,” the staff member told Caixin.“This is the only way to speed up the process, otherwise Wuhan cannot test as many samples within such a short time,” Peng Zhiyong, director of the intensive care unit of the Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University, told state media.The largest single-day number tested was on May 22 when 1,470,950 nucleic acid tests were performed.The local health commission said the tests are being carried out free of charge. Priority was given to residential compounds that had previously reported infections, as well as old and densely populated compounds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-wuhan-swab-samples-are-being-mixed-to-carry-out-quick-group-tests/story-bqnwz16r3Ltjxyur90omqJ.html
27-05-2020||World||South Korea sees biggest jump in coronavirus cases in seven weeks||South Korea reported its biggest jump in coronavirus infections in seven weeks on Wednesday, driven by a fresh cluster at an e-commerce warehouse on Seoul’s outskirts, as millions more pupils went back to school.The country has been held up as a global model in how to curb the virus and has rushed to contain new infections as life returns to normal.But officials announced 40 new cases Wednesday -- taking its total to 11,265 -- with most new infections from the densely populated Seoul metropolitan area.It was the largest increase since 53 infections were announced on April 8.An outbreak at a warehouse of e-commerce firm Coupang in Bucheon, west of Seoul, has seen 36 cases so far, the KCDC added.“It is suspected that the basic regulations were not enforced at the warehouse,” said vice health minister Kim Gang-lip.“If quarantine rules are not implemented at workplaces, it could lead to a dreadful result of a mass infection.”But officials said the possibility of parcel recipients being infected was low.Social distancing rules have been relaxed in South Korea and facilities such as museums and churches have reopened while some professional sports -- including baseball and soccer -- started new seasons earlier this month, albeit behind closed doors.More than two million students returned to classes on Wednesday, as part of the phased reopening of schools.Some high schools were forced to turn back pupils shortly after resuming classes last week over concerns of new virus cases in their neighbourhood.The country endured one of the worst early outbreaks of the disease outside mainland China, and while it never imposed a compulsory lockdown, strict social distancing had been widely observed since March.But it appears to have brought its outbreak under control thanks to an extensive “trace, test and treat” programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-korea-sees-biggest-jump-in-coronavirus-cases-in-seven-weeks/story-UfRoj5uo74cdz3E8VVWSfJ.html
27-05-2020||World||China’s survey team summits Mt Everest to remeasure its height||A Chinese survey team on Wednesday reached Mount Everest through Tibet to remeasure the exact height of the world’s tallest mountain.According to China’s measurement the height of Mount Everest is 8844.43 meters which is four meters less than Nepal’s calculations, the state media reported.On May 1, China, which differs with Nepal over the height of Mount Everest, began a new survey to measure the altitude of the world’s highest peak.The event marked a crucial step in China’s mission to remeasure the height of the world’s highest peak, which scientists believe will enhance human knowledge of nature and help boost scientific development, state-run Xinhua news agency reported.After summiting, team members began erecting a survey marker on the snow-covered peak, which measures less than 20 square meters, the report said.Chinese surveyors have conducted six rounds of scaled measurement and scientific research on Mt Everest and released the height of the peak twice in 1975 and 2005, which was 8,848.13 meters and 8,844.43 meters respectively, the report said.In Tibetan language, Mount Everest is known as Mount Qomolangma.China and Nepal settled their border dispute in 1961 with the boundary line passing through the summit of Mount Everest.More and more international climbers are reportedly using the Tibetan side of Mount Everest as China has improved infrastructure facilities compared to that of Nepal.China which closed Qomolangma National Park in southwest China’‘s Tibet Autonomous Region as a precaution following the coronavirus outbreak reopened it on May 1 coinciding with May Day holidays.Nepal closed all of its Himalayan peaks including Mount Everest in March in view of the coronavirus outbreak. Chinese tech firm Huawei is working with China Mobile to build two 5G stations on Mount Everest.The stations are expected to cover the summit of the mountain. The two installations will be the world’s highest terrestrial 5G base stations, Global Times reported on May 1.“The 6,500-meter-high point will likely be the highest place where Huawei is able to build a 5G station, but whether the signal can extend as high as the summit at 8,848 meters still needs to be tested. We are striving to make that happen,” Zhang Bo, Huawei project manager said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-s-survey-team-summits-mt-everest-to-remeasure-its-height/story-snh11Jgl5S04q1t50JhaDK.html
27-05-2020||World||France halts hydroxychloroquine use for Covid-19 cases: Govt||French doctors are no longer allowed to use hydroxychloroquine to treat Covid-19 cases, according to new government rules Wednesday, after two French advisory bodies said the drug could pose serious health risks.Use of the drug, normally a treatment for rheumatoid arthritis and lupus, has proven controversial after some prominent doctors and even US President Donald Trump began backing it during the coronavirus outbreak, despite a lack of sufficient trials on its effectiveness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-halts-hydroxychloroquine-use-for-covid-19-cases-govt/story-YZLzHMy2g4R64r8GBHxzaM.html
27-05-2020||World||Twitter calls out US President Donald Trump, he responds||US President Donald Trump on Wednesday hit back at Twitter for tagging two of his tweets with a fact-checking warning label. He accused the micro-blogging website of “interfering” in the US election and “completely stifling” free speech.“Twitter is now interfering in the 2020 Presidential Election. They are saying my statement on Mail-In Ballots, which will lead to massive corruption and fraud, is incorrect, based on fact-checking by Fake News CNN and the Amazon Washington Post....,” Trump tweeted on Tuesday. .@Twitter is now interfering in the 2020 Presidential Election. They are saying my statement on Mail-In Ballots, which will lead to massive corruption and fraud, is incorrect, based on fact-checking by Fake News CNN and the Amazon Washington Post....“Twitter is completely stifling FREE SPEECH, and I, as President, will not allow it to happen!” he said in another tweet.Twitter had on Tuesday for the first time prompted readers to check the facts in tweets sent by Trump, warning that his claims about mail-in ballots were false and had been debunked by fact checkers.The move marked a dramatic shift for the social network, Trump’s primary tool for getting an unfiltered version of his message out to his political base, after years of permissive policies around content on its platform.The company has been tightening those policies in recent years amid criticism that its hands-off approach had allowed abuse, fake accounts and misinformation to thrive.Trump, who has more than 80 million followers on Twitter, claimed in tweets earlier in the day that mail-in ballots would be “substantially fraudulent” and result in a “rigged election.” He also singled out the governor of California over the issue, although the state is not the only one to use mail-in ballots.Hours later, Twitter posted a blue exclamation mark alert underneath those tweets, prompting readers to “get the facts about mail-in ballots” and directing them to a page with information aggregated by Twitter staffers about the claims.Twitter said the application of a fact-checking label to the president’s tweets was an extension of its new “misleading information” policy, introduced earlier this month to combat misinformation about the coronavirus.It said at the time that it would later extend the Covid-19 policy to other types of disputed or misleading information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/twitter-calls-out-us-president-donald-trump-he-responds/story-myojgJcB5tiu29nV8gVqLP.html
27-05-2020||World||Remdesivir improves time to recovery in Covid-19 patients: Study||Remdesivir, the antiviral under clinical trials for treatment against novel coronavirus infection, is superior to the standard of care given to COVID-19 patients, according to a new study. The analysis, published in the New England Journal of Medicine, is based on data from the Adaptive COVID-19 Treatment Trial (ACTT), sponsored by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) in the US. In the randomised, controlled trial, clinicians enrolled adults hospitalised with COVID-19 who showed infection in the lower respiratory tract and suffered from moderate to severe disease. The researchers, including those from the New York University in the US, found that remdesivir was most beneficial for hospitalised patients with severe disease requiring supplemental oxygen. “Preliminary results of this trial suggest that a 10-day course of remdesivir was superior to placebo in the treatment of hospitalised patients with Covid-19,” the scientists wrote in the study. Findings about benefits in other patient subgroups were less conclusive in this analysis, they said. The study began on February 21, 2020 and enrolled 1,063 participants in 10 countries, with patients providing informed consent to participate, the researchers said. They said the patients were randomly assigned to receive local standard care and a 10-day course of the antiviral remdesivir intravenously, or local standard care and a placebo. According to the study, the trial was double-blind, meaning neither investigators nor participants knew who was receiving remdesivir or placebo. The preliminary findings, based on an analysis of 1059 participants, noted that patients who received remdesivir had a shorter time to recovery than those who received placebo. “We are awaiting final visits, data entry, monitoring, and data lock for the last of the 1063 patients enrolled, after which an update of the results will be provided,” the researchers noted in the study. The study defined recovery as being discharged from the hospital or being medically stable enough to be discharged from the hospital. The median time for this, the researchers said, was 11 days for patients treated with remdesivir compared with 15 days for those who received placebo. According to the study, the clinicians tracked patients’ health status daily using an eight-point ordinal scale ranging from fully recovered to death.When the scientists compared clinical status between the study participants on day 15, they found that the odds of improvement in the ordinal scale were higher in the remdesivir arm than in the placebo arm of the trial. The study also suggested a survival benefit, with a 14-day mortality rate of 7 per cent for the group receiving remdesivir compared to nearly 12 per cent for the placebo group. However, the scientists noted that the difference in mortality was not statistically significant. But they said the findings support remdesivir as the standard therapy for patients hospitalised with Covid-19, and requiring supplemental oxygen therapy. The researchers said the mortality rate of 7 per cent at 14 days in the remdesivir arm indicated the need to evaluate antivirals with other therapeutic agents to continue to improve clinical outcomes for patients with Covid-19. “However, given high mortality despite the use of remdesivir, it is clear that treatment with an antiviral drug alone is not likely to be sufficient,” the scientists noted in the study. PTI VIS VIS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/remdesivir-improves-time-to-recovery-in-covid-19-patients-study/story-4DecS4GSCopinEc5CnKReI.html
27-05-2020||World||Only half of Americans would get access to Covid-19 vaccine: Poll||Only about half of Americans say they would get a Covid-19 vaccine if the scientists working furiously to create one succeed, according to a new poll.That’s surprisingly low considering the effort going into the global race for a vaccine against the coronavirus that has sparked a pandemic since first emerging from China late last year. But more people might eventually roll up their sleeves: The poll from The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research, released Wednesday, found 31% simply weren’t sure if they’d get vaccinated. Another 1 in 5 said they’d refuse.Health experts already worry about the whiplash if vaccine promises like President Donald Trump’s goal of a 300 million-dose stockpile by January fail. Only time and science will tell -- and the new poll shows the public is indeed skeptical.“It’s always better to under-promise and over-deliver,” said Dr. William Schaffner, an infectious disease specialist at Vanderbilt University Medical Center.“The unexpected looms large and that’s why I think for any of these vaccines, we’re going to need a large safety database to provide the reassurance,” he added.Among Americans who say they wouldn’t get vaccinated, 7 in 10 worry about safety. “I am not an anti-vaxxer,” said Melanie Dries, 56, of Colorado Springs, Colorado. But, “to get a Covid-19 vaccine within a year or two ... causes me to fear that it won’t be widely tested as to side effects.” Dr Francis Collins, who directs the National Institutes of Health, insists safety is the top priority. The NIH is creating a master plan for testing the leading Covid-19 vaccine candidates in tens of thousands of people, to prove if they really work and also if they’re safe.“I would not want people to think that we’re cutting corners because that would be a big mistake. I think this is an effort to try to achieve efficiencies, but not to sacrifice rigor,” Collins told the AP earlier this month.“Definitely the worst thing that could happen is if we rush through a vaccine that turns out to have significant side effects,” Collins added.Among those who want a vaccine, the AP-NORC poll found protecting themselves, their family and the community are the top reasons.“I’m definitely going to get it,” said Brandon Grimes, 35, of Austin, Texas. “As a father who takes care of his family, I think ... it’s important for me to get vaccinated as soon as it’s available to better protect my family.” And about 7 in 10 of those who would get vaccinated say life won’t go back to normal without a vaccine. A site foreman for his family’s construction business, Grimes travels from house to house interacting with different crews, and said some of his coworkers also are looking forward to vaccination to minimize on-the-job risk.The new coronavirus is most dangerous to older adults and people of any age who have chronic health problems such as diabetes or heart disease. The poll found 67% of people 60 and older say they’d get vaccinated, compared with 40% who are younger.And death counts suggest black and Hispanic Americans are more vulnerable to Covid-19, because of unequal access to health care and other factors. Yet the poll found just 25% of African Americans and 37% of Hispanics would get a vaccine compared to 56% of whites.Among people who don’t want a vaccine, about 4 in 10 say they’re concerned about catching Covid-19 from the shot. But most of the leading vaccine candidates don’t contain the coronavirus itself, meaning they can’t cause infection.And 3 in 10 who don’t want a vaccine don’t fear getting seriously ill from the coronavirus.Over 5.5 million people worldwide have been confirmed infected by the virus, and more than 340,000 deaths have been recorded, including nearly 100,000 in the U.S., according to a tally kept by Johns Hopkins University. Experts believe the true toll is significantly higher.And while most people who get Covid-19 have mild cases and recover, doctors still are discovering the coronavirus attacks in far sneakier ways than just causing pneumonia — from blood clots to heart and kidney damage to the latest scare, a life-threatening inflammatory reaction in children.Whatever the final statistics show about how often it kills, health specialists agree the new coronavirus appears deadlier than the typical flu. Yet the survey suggests a vaccine would be no more popular than the yearly flu shot.Worldwide, about a dozen Covid-19 vaccine candidates are in early stages of testing or poised to begin. British researchers are opening one of the biggest studies so far, to test an Oxford University-created shot in 10,000 people.For all the promises of the Trump administration’s “ Operation Warp Speed,” only 20% of Americans expect any vaccine to be available to the public by year’s end, the poll found. Most think sometime next year is more likely.Political divisions seen over how the country reopens the economy are reflected in desire for a vaccine, too. More than half of Democrats call a vaccine necessary for reopening, compared to about a third of Republicans. While 62% of Democrats would get the vaccine, only 43% of Republicans say the same.“There’s still a large amount of uncertainty around taking the vaccine,” said Caitlin Oppenheimer, who leads NORC’s public health research. “There is a lot of opportunity to communicate with Americans about the value and the safety of a vaccine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/half-of-americans-would-get-a-covid-19-vaccine-poll/story-mEPS41IpnJrNYBFNiPT4KI.html
27-05-2020||World||Covid-19: China’s industrial firms profits fall in April but at slower pace||Profits at China’s industrial firms fell at a slower pace in April, helped by improvements in automobiles and electronics, but the economy faces persistent pressure as activity and demand remains weak after the coronavirus outbreak.Profits at China’s industrial firms in April fell 4.3% year-on-year to 478.1 billion yuan ($67 billion), after plunging 34.9% in March, the statistics bureau said on Wednesday. China’s economy has shown patchy signs of recovery as it reopens after several weeks of tough virus containment measures.But fallout from the pandemic, which paralysed business activity and triggered the first quarterly economic contraction on record, is expected to keep earnings under strain for most of this year.For the first four months, industrial firms’ profits fell 27.4% year-on-year to 1.26 trillion yuan, compared with a 36.7% slump in the first three months. Automobiles, special-purpose equipment, electrical machinery and electronics industries notched up significant recoveries in profits in April. Twenty three out of 41 sectors surveyed posted growth last month versus eight in March. However, the overall profit outlook is not optimistic as market demand has still not recovered, industrial goods prices remain low, and pressure from costs are still high, Zhu Hong, an official at statistics bureau, said in a statement.Recent data from factory activity to trade have underscored a weak outlook for China and the global economy.Beijing has stepped up tax and credit relief for virus-ravaged companies since February, but it has refrained from massive economic stimulus for fear of rekindling debt risks.The uncertainty stoked by the pandemic has forced China to drop its growth target for gross domestic product (GDP) for 2020 for the first time since such annual goals were set three decades ago. Earnings at China’s state-owned industrial firms were down 46.0% year-on-year for the first four months, versus a 45.5% decline in the quarter ended March, the statistics bureau data showed. Liabilities at industrial firms rose 6.2% on year at end-April, versus 5.4% growth as of end-March. Private sector profits declined 17.2% in January-April, narrowing from January-March’s 29.5% fall.The industrial profit data covers large firms with annual revenue over 20 million yuan from their main operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-china-s-industrial-firms-profits-fall-in-april-but-at-slower-pace/story-CbLPRDofKfyZu6UyhyyNxL.html
27-05-2020||World||Covid-19: Most viruses, other germs do not spread easily on flights, says report||Most viruses and other germs do not spread easily on flights, the US Center for Disease Control and Prevention has said in its Covid-19 guidelines which do not recommend following social distancing between two passengers inside a plane or keeping the middle seat unoccupied. As a result of coronavirus pandemic, air traffic inside the US has come to a near halt. Air traffic is said to be down to about 90 per cent. For all travellers coming from overseas, the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has recommended 14 days quarantine. “Most viruses and other germs do not spread easily on flights because of how air circulates and is filtered on airplanes,” the CDC has said in its set of Covid-19 guidelines for air travellers. However, it noted that the air travellers were not risk-free specially in the time of the coronavirus pandemic and recommended Americans to avoid travel as far as possible.“Air travel requires spending time in security lines and airport terminals, which can bring you in close contact with other people and frequently touched surfaces,” it said.“Social distancing is difficult on crowded flights, and you may have to sit near others (within six feet), sometimes for hours. This may increase your risk for exposure to the virus that causes Covid-19,” the CDC said.But instead of recommended social distancing inside commercial planes, the CDC has advised a series of preventive and hygienic measures to be taken by the airlines pilot and crew to prevent the spread of coronavirus.The US Department of Transportation and Federal Aviation Administration in its latest safety alerts for operators on May 11 said that air carriers and crews conducting flight operations having a nexus to the US, including both domestic and foreign air carriers, should follow CDC’s occupational health and safety guidance.The CDC issued its guidelines in first guidelines for the airlines and airline crew on March and again in May. The CDC, which has issued an exhaustive social guideline measures in various sections, is silent on keeping the middle seat of a plane unoccupied so as to maintain the six feet distance between two passengers.It calls for the plane crew to report to the CDC a traveller with specific Covid-19 symptoms like fever, persistent cough, difficulty in breathing and appearing unwell.Asking the airlines and cabin crew to review infection control guidelines for cabin crew, the CDC recommends several measures for cabin crew to protect themselves and others, manage a sick traveller, clean contaminated areas, and take actions after a flight. Prominent among them include wash hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, particularly after assisting sick travellers or touching potentially contaminated body fluids or surfaces and use of alcohol-based hand sanitizer (containing at least 60 per cent alcohol) if soap and water are not available.Airlines should consider providing alcohol-based hand sanitizer to cabin and flight crews for their personal use, it said. The CDC guidelines do not recommend following social distancing inside a plane between two passengers or keeping the middle seat unoccupied. But it asks to minimise contact between passengers and cabin crew and the sick person. “If possible, separate the sick person from others (by a distance of 2 meters or 6 feet, ideally) and designate one crew member to serve the sick person. Offer a facemask, if available and if the sick person can tolerate it. If a facemask is not available or cannot be tolerated, ask the sick person to cover their mouth and nose with tissues when coughing or sneezing,” said the CDC guidelines. If no symptomatic passengers were identified during or immediately after the flight, the CDC recommends airlines to follow routine operating procedures for cleaning aircraft, managing solid waste, and wearing PPE. “If symptomatic passengers are identified during or immediately after the flight, routine cleaning procedures should be followed, and enhanced cleaning procedures should also be used,” it said. Clean porous (soft) surfaces (e.g, cloth seats, cloth seat belts) at the seat of the symptomatic passengers and within 6 feet of the symptomatic passengers in all directions, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-most-viruses-other-germs-do-not-spread-easily-on-flights-says-report/story-CXjmE2U6cZXKNYbus4ZnfM.html
27-05-2020||World||More peacekeeping operations, fewer troops in 2019: Report||The number of international peacekeeping missions rose slightly in 2019, but the number of personnel deployed continued to decline, researchers said Wednesday.The number of multilateral peace operations, both by the UN and others, rose by just one to 61, according to a report by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI).But the number of troops, police and civilian staff decreased by 4.8 percent, with all 10 of the world’s largest operations either withdrawing staff or keeping the level stable.The lower number of personnel continues a four-year trend and is a reflection of reductions or closures of several of the UN’s larger peacekeeping operations.“The UN still has the same number of operations, but the newer operations are smaller in size and they’re mostly political missions,” Jair van der Lijn, director of SIPRI’s Peace Operations and Conflict Management Programme, told AFP.In sub-Saharan Africa, personnel decreased by 5.8 percent, though the region still accounts for 71 percent of all staff in peace operations.Some of the bigger operations, such as UNAMID in Darfur and MONUSCO in the Democratic Republic of Congo are moving towards the end of their lifetime. “Although the situations are not completely stable, the situations have definitely improved compared to what they were,” van der Lijn told AFP.Adding to that, there is “less willingness to deploy new large operations” in the UN’s Security Council, he said, pointing to conflict areas such as Syria, Yemen and Libya where potential UN peacekeeping operations could have been up for debate previously.The reduced willingness can be traced to Security Council members, particularly the US, wanting to cut back on costs, along with a sense that peacekeeping operations are not that effective.A false assumption according to van der Lijn, who says that from a quantitative perspective the results of peacekeeping operations are actually often positive, though people often focus on failed examples like those in Rwanda or the former Yugoslavia.With the reduction of personnel in sub-Saharan Africa, the focus of peacekeeping operations is slightly shifting to the Middle East and Northern Africa (MENA), the only regions to see a small increase in the number of peacekeeping personnel.Among UN peacekeeping operations, MINUSMA in Mali continues to be relatively lethal while most other UN operations suffer relatively few deaths from hostile attacks.A total of 28 deaths among UN peacekeeping staff were attributed to malicious acts in 2019, one more than the year before.Of those acts, 23 targeted uniformed personnel, all but one of whom were deployed with MINUSMA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/more-peacekeeping-operations-fewer-troops-in-2019-report/story-iXVvUdlONxywzMnqxierhM.html
27-05-2020||World||In a first, Twitter adds fact-check warnings to Trump tweets||For the first time, Twitter has flagged some of President Donald Trump’s tweets with a fact-check warning.On Tuesday, Twitter added a warning phrase to two Trump tweets that called mail-in ballots “fraudulent” and predicted that “mail boxes will be robbed,” among other things. ....Twitter is completely stifling FREE SPEECH, and I, as President, will not allow it to happen!Under the tweets, there is now a link reading “Get the facts about mail-in ballots” that guides users to a Twitter “moments” page with fact checks and news stories about Trump’s unsubstantiated claims.The move comes after years in which Twitter has declined to apply its community guidelines and other rules of the road to the 45th US president. It’s too soon to tell whether this action represents a turning point for Twitter in its treatment of Trump. But the warning labels suggest that the president has finally crossed a line that the company was not willing to move for him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-a-first-twitter-adds-fact-check-warnings-to-trump-tweets/story-q2RVx0BBqdWzTeTqbkOZUI.html
27-05-2020||World||1st wave far from over, warns WHO||As South America and South Asia struggle with surging coronavirus cases, a top global health expert is warning that the world is still in the very middle of the outbreak, dampening hopes for a speedy global economic rebound and renewed international travel.“Right now, we’re not in the second wave. We’re right in the middle of the first wave globally,” said Mike Ryan, the World Health Organization’s (WHO) executive director. “We’re still very much in a phase where the disease is actually on the way up,” Ryan said, pointing to South America and South Asia.In South America and South Asia, the virus has taken hold in some of the poorest, most densely populated areas.In Brazil, the WHO warned that before reopening the economy, authorities must have enough testing in place to control the spread of the virus. Brazil has 375,000 coronavirus infections and has counted over 23,000 deaths, but many fear Brazil’s true toll is much higher.In Europe, Russian President Vladimir Putin announced that the postponed military parade marking the 75th anniversary of the allied victory in the World War II will take place on June 24. Putin also said the country has passed the peak of the outbreak. Russia reported a record one-day spike on Tuesday of 174 deaths.Wall street stocks surge as Nyse opensWall Street stocks surged early on Tuesday on optimism about coronavirus vaccines as the New York Stock Exchange resumed physical floor trading for the first time since late March.About 30 minutes into trading, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 2.4% at 25,038.94. The broad-based S&P 500 gained 1.7% to 3,007.76, while the tech-rich Nasdaq Composite Index advanced 1.2% to 9,434.99.The gains came after New York Governor Andrew Cuomo, wearing a mask, rang the opening bell to signal the start of the day for traders, also clad in masks and separated by plexiglas.The NYSE, which closed on March 23 as coronavirus cases were soaring in New York, is ramping up slowly with only a fraction of the normal trading staff. Traders are required to wear masks and have their temperatures taken and must respect social distancing rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/1st-wave-far-from-over-warns-who/story-UPDHcd64tQ8dCAO93X1k1I.html
27-05-2020||India||Boarding school students need not travel for CBSE exams||New Delhi: Union human resource development (HRD) minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on Thursday announced that students, who have moved to different states or districts during the Covid-19 lockdown, can opt to take their board exams there.The announcement came on the day when HT reported that a section of students studying in residential schools may still have to travel hundreds of miles to sit for the exams even as the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) is increasing the number of exam centres from 3,000 to 13,000 to ensure students get the exam centres of their choice.“Class 10 and Class 12 students, who have moved to different states or districts during the Covid-19 lockdown, can appear for pending board exam there,” said Nishank.Officials said the decision was taken in view of the long distances that some students would have had to undertake and the quarantine measures that school authorities would have been forced to make.HRD ministry alone runs 661 residential Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas mostly in rural areas and would have had to make quarantine arrangements for their students to take the exams.Several residential schools had brought the long-distance travel many students would have had to undertake in Covid-19 hit areas to CBSE and HRD ministry’s notice.“Keeping in view the problem of the candidates who have shifted to other districts than the district of their examination centre, the CBSE has decided to shift their examination centres to their present districts. A notification will be issued by the CBSE in this regard in June. Such candidates are informed that they should remain in touch with their schools,” CBSE secretary Anurag Tripathi said in a statement.Class 10 and 12 board exams postponed due to the Covid-19 lockdown are being conducted from July 1 to 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boarding-school-students-need-not-travel-for-cbse-exams/story-SUca01A46zEae2l1y9K0sM.html
27-05-2020||India||Uncertainty in flights because of some states: Hardeep Singh Puri||The government may not be able to provide a financial bailout for airlines, aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said in an interview. And international flights are unlikely to resume anytime soon. .Edited excerpts:Domestic flight resumption was off to a shaky start on Monday with a lot of confusion and cancellations. Has the situation improved now?It is not correct to use the term confusion here. There was uncertainty because some states decided to not resume flight operations on May 25. We had multiple discussions with them prior to the announcement on the {resumption of} domestic flights. We also issued a central SOP {standard operating procedure} for domestic travel but many (states) went ahead and issued their own guidelines. Many of their SOPs came in very late and our meeting with the airlines ended by around 9 pm (on Sunday). Many cancellations occurred due to this. The situation has now stabilised and much better with just six flight cancellations on day two and 445 flight departures ferrying 30,944 passengers and 447 arrival flights with 31,697 passengers. (arriving flights included 24 that departed just before midnight the previous day)Would it have been more sensible to take states on board prior to the announcement?We did take states on board from day one, contrary to what is being said. Discussions with them started as early as 15th May; when we announced the resumption on 22nd, we had held several rounds of discussion...we decided to give it three more days. There are issues you have to look at; whether the state is willing to accept -- some states were not keen but when they were told economic activity is needed, they changed their mind; are the airports ready? All our airports were ready on the 15th, airlines were ready but they wanted six days’ notice. What happened in this was (that) two or three states could not receive flights, they told us very frankly ...so we said you take your time…It is not a question of explaining why but the press became a commentator, it played headlines like “total chaos” and some people said let’s not fly. What is the chaos? The chaos is on some flights being cancelled. What are the reasons some flights are cancelled? It is very clear because the state government has a problem. Second issue was that the SOPs were issued by the states very late. Now the SOPs are in place. Andhra Pradesh has opened up. West Bengal will on 28 May. A few Covid-19 positive cases have been reported in flights since the resumption. Were you prepared for it?We are prepared for it. We have taken the precautions at airports where you don’t need any human contact; you print out your boarding pass, your luggage gets sanitized, then you are inside the aircraft with the protective gear and the aircraft is also disinfected. You take as much measures as humanly possible. But I keep saying there is a risk in everything. There is a massive conflict between those who want things to desperately open and go about their work and those who pick up any case and make a big thing about it. Airlines are equipped to deal with cases, if they have a positive case and they decide to ground the crew, the airlines will have to pay that price. What about international flight operations? Are we prepared to resume them? I don’t see that happening for some time. International civil aviation traffic is dependent on something completely different, it depends on other countries, international trade and business activity. Will the demand of international traffic continue to be low, what will be the new norm? (Economist) Arvind Panagariya had said (that) even when you had big disruptions earlier trade still picked up globally. I see it picking up again, but it is too early to say. In India we have a pretty stable domestic traffic, it will pick up as people will want to move. But you had earlier said it could resume by August?I was asked if you will be able to start international civil aviation by August or September, I had said we could do that even earlier. What does that mean? We have two months to go. The number of people we are bringing back on Vande Bharat (flights for Indian passengers stranded abroad), we are already scaling that up. Our idea was to bring those people back who were genuinely stranded and distressed. But many of the people coming back are not stranded in the manner in which we originally envisaged when the scheme was announced.How much is your estimate of the total hit on the aviation sector? You can only do a damage assessment when the resumption has taken place because the damage is on a continuing basis. Do you see any Indian airline closing down?I hope not but they are under stress. I am not going to get involved in that but there are two issues involved. As a government we have to be acutely cautious and mindful of all that needs to be done on the health front and make sure people are safe and that is paramount, but equally we also have to conscious about what is happening to the economy. It’s been two months since airports and airlines have not had any revenue, even parked aircraft on ground cost money. And even if you don’t have 100% flights running, you can at least have some cost being recovered. When can we expect a financial bailout of the sector? First of all, if financial bailouts were taking place why would so many global airlines have gone bust?... It is a difficult situation. We have given a large number of measures to mitigate their stress. But I am not sure that the system as it is structured right now is geared to giving any bailout. The business model of airlines is particularly precarious. But the government can’t give billion-dollar bailouts. It doesn’t happen for any sector in India. We will support their demands on Aviation Turbine Fuel taxation, that will get rationalized ,among other measures, but we can’t bail out an individual. That will mean we are giving taxpayer’s money to bail out an individual business. What happens to the Air India divestment plan? It goes on. Air India has to be divested, there is absolutely no question on that. At this stage, to keep anything (running) by subsidy is almost impossible to justify. Will we see further easing of restrictions after May 31?100%, I am speaking in my personal capacity, of course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uncertainty-in-flights-because-of-some-states-hardeep-singh-puri/story-KwMGYcqqwbe9pEkubAz2iP.html
27-05-2020||India||ASI unearths 9th century Shiva Lingam at Vietnam temple site||New Delhi: The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has unearthed a Shiva Lingam, or representation of the Hindu deity Shiva, dating back to the 9th century during restoration work at Vietnam’s Cham temple complex.External affairs minister S Jaishankar announced this on Twitter on Wednesday, saying the development underscored the “civilisational connect” between the two countries and was a “great cultural example of India’s development partnership”.“Reaffirming a civilisational connect. Monolithic sandstone Shiv(a) Linga(m) of 9th c CE is latest find in ongoing conservation project. Applaud @ASIGoI team for their work at Cham Temple Complex, My Son, #Vietnam. Warmly recall my visit there in 2011.”The Cham temple complex, a part of the UNESCO world heritage site of My Son in Quang Nam province of Vietnam, was built in the 9th century AD during the reign of King Indravarman II along with the famous Dong Duong Buddhist monastery in the same region.A four-member ASI team is currently engaged in the fourth season of restoration and conservation work at My Son. This year’s work schedule runs from January to June. Over the past three seasons, ASI has restored temples in two different groups at the complex, and the team is now working on the third group of temples.“During the current restoration work at the temples, ASI team found the Shiva Lingam. It is a monolithic structure with decorative patterns of very exquisite cultural value,” said an official on condition of anonymity. “Before this, six other Shiva Lingams were found in the My Son temple complex. But the latest find is believed to be the most magnificent.”French experts discovered the temple complex in a dilapidated condition in 1903-04. During excavations at that time, French archaeologists described the presence of a Shiva Lingam in the group of temples that is currently being renovated. However, due to limited excavation capabilities in those days, this Shiva Lingam could not be recovered. Subsequently, political disturbances and wars in Vietnam led to the destruction of the temple complex.The external affairs ministry created a new Development Partnership Division in January to coordinate and undertake culture and heritage conservation projects abroad, including identification, planning, and implementation of schemes in consultation with technical agencies.The new division will also act as a repository of all such projects being undertaken by India abroad, and be instrumental in the dissemination of information of projects and cooperation in culture and heritage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asi-unearths-9th-century-shiva-lingam-at-vietnam-temple-site/story-E9ujyZJVueqo3jud407KfJ.html
27-05-2020||India||Nepal defers map update amid row; India hopeful of better ties||New DelhiThe Indian government believes the debate in Nepal’s parliament over a constitutional amendment to give legal backing to a new map, which depicts Kalapani and Lipulekh as part of Nepalese territory, reflects the importance attached to improving bilateral ties, people familiar with developments said on Wednesday.The government of Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli was forced to defer its plan to move the constitutional amendment in parliament to update the map after the main opposition Nepali Congress party sought time for more discussion on the issue.There were also reports from Kathmandu that the move could be linked to efforts for back channel contacts between the two sides to address a row that erupted after India recently inaugurated an 80-km road to Lipulekh on the Chinese border. Nepal, which claims Lipulekh, protested the opening of the road but the external affairs ministry contended it was “completely within the territory of India”.The people cited above, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the Indian side is monitoring the situation and has noted the larger ongoing debate on the border issue within Nepal.“The debate underlines the seriousness of this issue. It also demonstrates the value being attached to relations between Nepal and India,” said one of the people cited above.“Border issues are sensitive by nature and require trust and confidence to be resolved to mutual satisfaction,” the person added.People familiar with developments in Kathmandu said the country’s budget for fiscal 2020-21 is scheduled to be presented in parliament on May 28, which would mean that the constitutional amendment to alter the country’s political map is unlikely to be taken up anytime soon.“The focus will move to the budget and this could create some space for negotiations on the border issue,” said a person who declined to be identified.However, the Nepal government is apparently miffed that the country’s ambassador to India, Nilamber Acharya, has not yet been granted a meeting with senior officials in the external affairs ministry to discuss the border issue.The Oli government planned to table the constitutional amendment in parliament on Tuesday to give legal backing to the new political map released on May 18 that shows Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura as part of the country’s territory. All three regions are the subject of disputes with India. The constitutional amendment will have to be passed with a two-thirds majority by the House of Representatives and the National Assembly.When Oli called a meeting of all political parties on Tuesday to seek backing for the amendment, two parties from the Madhes region demanded that their calls for constitutional amendments should be incorporated, while the main opposition Nepali Congress said it needed to discuss the proposal further, The Kathmandu Post reported.“We support the territorial integrity of the country and we also support the government’s release of the map,” Nepali Congress leader Krishna Prasad Situala said. “But a decision on the amendment to update the map will be made at the forthcoming Central Working Committee meeting. So we requested that the amendment be put on hold for the time being.”The ruling Nepal Communist Party has a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly, but needs support from other parties to pass the constitutional amendment in the House of Representatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-defers-map-update-amid-row-india-hopeful-of-better-ties/story-igENIz0JOSXSELh8l67t3J.html
27-05-2020||India||Locusts reach Jhansi, other UP districts on alert||After attacking crops in Madhya Pradesh, a swarm of locusts reached Jhansi district on Wednesday, an Uttar Pradesh official said. Other districts in the region are also on alert.Locusts struck the district last week as well, but they authorities said they eliminated half of that swarm with the help of local people. The latest swarm was spotted in neighbouring Madhya Pradesh’s Datia district. Anticipating its arrival, the Jhansi administration had already deployed fire brigade vehicles loaded with pesticide. The locusts reached Skill village in Garautha tehsil around 4.30 pm and efforts were on to drive them away, Jhansi division’s Deputy Director (Agriculture) Kamal Katiyar told PTI. The swarm is spread over an area of about one square kilometre, he said. Insecticide is being sprayed, he said. Farmers have been advised to play loud music to deter locusts. “A relatively small swarm of locusts was also spotted in Datawali village under the Samthar police station area,” Katiyar said. Locusts had earlier attacked some parts of Jhansi district on May 22 and 24. Taking cognisance of the problem, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed district magistrates of districts bordering other states to take appropriate measures to deal with the menace. Instructions were issued to DMs of Jhansi, Lalitpur, Agra, Mathura, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat, Mahoba, Banda, Chitrakoot, Jalaun, Etawah and Kanpur Dehat. Adityanath and Agriculture Minister Surya Pratap Shahi instructed the DMs and officers of the Agriculture Department to take appropriate action, a statement issued here on Wednesday said. At the state-level to control the menace, teams have been formed, and control room established, which will inform the movement of the locusts to these districts to take protective measures. At the district-level, a nodal officer has been made, and a task force and control-room already set up. Instructions were also issued to prepare details about the dangers posed by the locusts, ways to protect from them and precautions. These will be circulated among all departmental officials in all districts through social media and made available to farmers and the public. An advisory has been issued to beat drums, tin containers and metal plates to create noise and shoo away locusts in case of an attack. Agriculture Department officials have been told co-ordinate with members of the locust warning team, local residents and farmers. Instructions have already been issued to take assistance of agriculture universities and pest management centres. Two fire brigade vehicles with insecticide were deployed in all four Jhansi tehsils. In addition, six vehicles were kept ready at the district headquarter. Ten municipal employees with two insecticide spraying machines have been posted in every block, Katiyar said. Locusts don’t target animals or humans but can devastate crop fields. Banda, Mahoba, Hamirpur and Chitrakoot districts in UP are also on alert to the possibility of locusts flying in from Madhya Pradesh, where swarms have been spotted in Chhatarpur and Panna districts as well. Swarms of locusts from Pakistan entered Rajasthan last month, affecting several districts and then spreading to other states. Banda DM Amit Singh Bansal Wednesday said a committee has been formed under the chief development officer and all field officers alerted. Bansal said farmers have been told to inform their village `lekhpal’ as soon as they come to know about locusts arriving in their areas. Rashtriya Kisan Manch president Shekhar Dixit said the government should conduct a physical verification to assess the damage caused in locust attacks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/locusts-reach-jhansi-other-up-districts-on-alert/story-OsHRcxdWtyZwUyDrRnjsmK.html
27-05-2020||India||Child tries to wake dead mother at Muzaffarpur railway station||Muzaffarpur: The woman’s body is in a makeshift shroud on a railway platform; her two-and-half year old son, unaware that his mother his dead, keeps trying to wake her up. At one point, he puts part of the shroud over his own face, and then takes it off playfully. In the background, the loudspeaker announces the arrival of yet another Shramik Special train.This heart-rending video clip barely 14 seconds long, went viral on social media on Wednesday, although the incident is believed to have taken place on Monday at Muzzaffarpur railway station in Bihar. On May 25, a Shramik Special from Gujarat ferrying 1650 migrants from Ahmedabad pulled into Muzaffarpur at 3.30 pm. Among them was Arvina Khatoon, a 35-year-old resident of Srikol Marandanga in Katihar, who had passed away barely hours before the train reached her home district of Katihar, which was the final stop of the train. Accompanied by her two children, including a 4-year-old, her sister, brother-in-law, Mohammed Wazir and their seven-year old child, Khatoon had reportedly died at noon during the journey. Her body was placed on the platform and covered with a shroud soon after the train reached the station. It remained there for well over an hour.“When the train reached Muzaffarpur railway station, we were informed about the body of a woman in the train. We took the body out and asked for her relatives. Mohammed Wazir came forward and provided details. They were headed to Katihar. Wazir also told us that the woman was unwell for four days before catching the train. She died in the train by 12 noon on Monday,” deputy superintendent of the government railway police, Ramakant Upadhyay said.According to Indian railways protocol on deaths in trains, the railway police takes charge of the body, prepares an initial report and a post-mortem is carried out. However, Khatoon’s body was not sent for post-mortem, district officials said.A release issued on Tuesday by the district public relation officer of Muzaffarpur Kamal Singh stated that Khatoon’s death was declared a natural death by a team of doctors deputed at the railway station to monitor incoming migrants and a post-mortem was not carried out. At 5.30 pm, an ambulance took the family and Khatoon’s body to their village where her father Mir Islam lives in their ancestral home. She was buried on Tuesday. As the video of her body lying prone on the platform went viral, several remarked that she had died due to hunger and dehydration -- a charge that the railway authorities were quick to dismiss.“The woman’s family members have said she was already unwell. Request all not to spread fake news,” said Rajesh Kumar, spokesperson of east central railway. He added that a doctor attached to the east central railways also examined the woman’s body. “She was ill before boarding the train,” Wazir, a labourer who worked in a textile factory in Surat, told HT. The family of six had hired a taxi to ferry them from Surat to Ahmedabad -- a journey of 200-odd kilometres that cost them Rs 4000 -- on May 23. They boarded the train the same day. Khatoon’s children will continue to live with their maternal grandfather and Khatoon’s sister. Their father is migrant worker in Ahmedabad, and had divorced Khatoon a year ago.  According to the ministry of railways, over 3500 Shramik Special trains have ferried more than 4.8 million passengers till date; 80% of them were destined for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/child-tries-to-wake-dead-mother-at-muzaffarpur-railway-station/story-66JIkqEiVkUGwWhRGP8MJK.html
27-05-2020||India||Week after Amphan, squall hits Kolkata||Even before the city could start dealing with the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan, a squall hit the city on Wednesday evening with wind speed up to 96km per hour. Exactly a week ago, Cyclone Amphan had battered the city with winds gusting up to 130km per hour. The city and is still limping back to normal and power supply is yet to be restored in some pockets.On Wednesday, a fire brigade official was electrocuted to death when he accidentally touched a live wire while carrying out restoration work in Howrah.“We have lost a fire brigade officer. The power supply corporation had given us misleading information saying that supply had been cut off. The officer SS Roy was electrocuted to death. It is a criminal offence. I have asked the police to investigate and take action against the person responsible,” Mamata Banerjee, chief minister of West Bengal, said.The state government has already announced a compensation of ₹10 lakh for his family and has also promised a government job for one family member. The squall hit Kolkata around 6.20 pm, bringing rain. The India Meteorological Department’s regional weather forecasting centre in Kolkata has forecasted that Friday could see some rain too. Strong winds have been blowing over the city and districts of south Bengal over the past few days.“Some pockets where power connection was restored a few days after the cyclone, were again plunged into darkness on Wednesday after the storm as power lines snapped,” an official of the state power department said. On May 20, Cyclone Amphan had hit the West Bengal coast with a wind speed up to 185km per hour. Large parts of south Bengal in eight districts plunged into darkness as more than 1.5 lakh km of power lines, including 30,000 km of high tension wire, snapped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/week-after-amphan-squall-hits-kolkata/story-KwEwXI0bRMCi5c2mBR5EcJ.html
27-05-2020||India||Covid-19: PM Modi says India stands ready to extend support to Sri Lanka||Days after Colombo sought a $1.1 billion currency swap facility from New Delhi to boost foreign currency reserves amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told his Sri Lankan counterpart Mahinda Rajapaksa that India “stands ready to extend all possible support”.Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa sought the currency swap facility, in addition to $400 million the country has sought from India under the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) framework, during a telephone conversation with Modi on May 23.Modi spoke on Wednesday with Mahinda Rajapaksa to congratulate him on completing 50 years since first entering Sri Lanka’s Parliament. He recalled Mahinda Rajapaska’s contributions to Sri Lanka’s development and wished him the best for his future.“The leaders discussed the health and economic impact of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic and the measures being taken in the two countries to counter them. Prime Minister assured H.E. Rajapaksa that India stands ready to extend all possible support to Sri Lanka during this challenging time,” the external affairs ministry said in a readout.Modi also conveyed his condolences at the sudden demise of Arumugan Thondaman, a prominent leader of Indian-origin Tamils in Sri Lanka, on Tuesday. He recalled Thondaman’s role in taking forward the development partnership between the two countries.Sri Lanka has been battered by the pandemic, which has led to the complete drying up of revenues from tourism, one of the mainstays of the economy. China’s development bank provided a $500 million loan to Sri Lanka in March to bolster the country’s official reserves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-says-india-stands-ready-to-extend-support-to-sri-lanka-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-a2JNEO53RbKPS2mTOTHAZM.html
27-05-2020||India||Week after Cyclone Amphan, Kolkata hit by squall at 96 kmph||Before Kolkata could come out of the shock of Cyclone Amphan, a squall hit the city on Wednesday evening with wind speed up to 96 km per hour. Exactly a week ago, Cyclone Amphan, had battered the city with wind speed of 130 km per hour. The city is still limping back to normal with power supply yet to be restored in some pockets.On Wednesday, a fire brigade official was electrocuted to death when he accidentally touched a live wire while carrying out restoration work in Howrah.“We have lost a fire brigade officer. The power supply corporation had given misleading information saying that supply had been cut off. The officer, SS Roy, was electrocuted to death. It is a criminal offence. I have asked the police to investigate into it and take action against the person responsible,” Mamata Banerjee, West Bengal chief minister said.The state government has already announced a compensation of Rs 10 lakh for his family and has also promised a government job for one family member. The squall hit Kolkata around 6:20 pm triggering rain. The India Meteorological Department’s regional weather forecasting centre in Kolkata has predicted that there could be rain even on Friday. Strong winds have been blowing over the city and districts of south Bengal over the past few days.“Some pockets where power connection could be restored for some days after the cyclone passed again plunged into darkness on Wednesday after the storm as power lines were snapped,” said an official of the state power department. On May 20, Cyclone Amphan had hit the Bengal coast with wind speed going up to 185 km per hour. Large parts of south Bengal in eight districts plunged into darkness as more than 1.5 lakh km of power lines, including 30,000 km of high tension wire, were snapped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/week-after-cyclone-amphan-kolkata-hit-by-squall-at-96-kmph/story-phba3qOjc5TWmvti0UOCRP.html
27-05-2020||India||Migrant worker hitching to his home in Bengal dies in Raipur||A 29-year-old migrant worker died in Raipur while travelling to his home state West Bengal from Maharashtra on Wednesday evening, officials said.Hapijul Rahman was hitchhiking along with others to his home in Bengal’s Howarah district.Raipur municipal commissioner and acting district collector Saurabh Kumar said a group of migrants had reached Tatiband square on a truck in the evening.“Rahman was unwell when he reached Tatiband square and died by the time the ambulance reached the spot,” said Kumar.Two others who were travelling with him were also unwell.“We have admitted them at isolation centre at Lalpur and treatment is going on. The samples of all the three will be sent for testing for Covid-19,” the collector said. Police said that the body has been sent for postmortem.On Tuesday, samples of a 36-year-old migrant labourer, who died in Durg district on May 24 while travelling to his home in West Bengal from Maharashtra, tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-worker-hitching-to-his-home-in-bengal-dies-in-raipur/story-o0UmvjSdjrrNCoxgsSbkXM.html
27-05-2020||India||For the third month, Telangana employees face pay cuts as coffers stay dry||Government employees and pensioners in Telangana will continue to face salary cuts ranging from 10 per cent to 60 per cent for the third consecutive month because of severe financial crunch in the state on account of lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19, according to a statement for the chief minister’s office (CMO).While there will be 50 per cent salary cut for all state government employees, all India service officers will continue to face 60 per cent salary cut and outsourced and contract workers will have 10 per cent cut in their salaries for May.All the elected public representatives – from sarpanches to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao – will face a deduction of 75 per cent in their salaries. The 25 per cent deduction for the government pensioners will also continue.A decision to this effect was taken at a high-level review chaired by chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao at Pragathi Bhavan in the evening.An official release from the chief minister’s office said people below poverty line would not be getting direct cash transfer of Rs 1,500 per family from this month, since they are able to go to their daily work because of relaxation of lockdown guidelines. “However, these families will continue to get 12 kg of rice free of cost,” the official statement quoting the chief minister said.The meeting decided to continue payment of pensions to all the eligible persons and also pay loan installments to various lending agencies.Stating that the financial position of the state was precarious even after the relaxation of lockdown norms in most parts of the state, the chief minister said as against the expected revenue of Rs 12,000 crore to the state every month, it could get only Rs 3,100 crore, including the state’s share in the central taxes, which is Rs 982 crore. “If we have to pay full salaries to the employees, we require Rs 3,000 crore and the entire treasury will go empty,” he said.KCR said the state government had to pay debt installments of Rs 37,400 crore per year without fail. “The State has requested the Centre to re-schedule the loans, but there was no response. Though there was an increase in the FRBM Limits by the Centre, the state could not raise additional loans due to conditions imposed by the Centre,” he said.Reviewing the Covid-19 pandemic in the state, the chief minister said there was no need for any panic, as the spread of the virus was not on an alarming scale. However, the people should be cautious and alert. “Even if there is an increase in the positive cases, the medical and health departments are ready to offer medical services to any number of cases,” he assured.He said the death rate in Telangana was 2.82 per cent against the country rate of 2.86 per cent and most of them had history of other ailments. He urged the people to take personal precautions though there was relaxation in the lockdown guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-the-third-month-telangana-employees-face-pay-cuts-as-coffers-stay-dry/story-DuVh2DOW3XGQv8wFQVgtEK.html
27-05-2020||India||In Chhattisgarh, psychologists to counsel labourers in quarantine centres||The Chhattisgarh government on Wednesday announced a slew of measures to help labourers lodged in quarantine centres of the state, including hiring psychologists to counsel them.The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel at his residence this evening to discuss post-lockdown measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19 and a strategy to resume economic activities in the state.The meeting was attended by all the ministers and senior officials of the state government.“The chief minister gave instructions to arrange for televisions, radio sets etc for entertainment of migrant labourers in quarantine centers and also directed to take services of psychologists for counselling of labourers. Instructions to conduct yoga and other motivational activities in quarantine centers with the help of NGOs were also given,” said a senior government official.According to a government statement, Baghel said that it is important to solve the food and employment related problems of labourers returning to the state. For this, ration cards and MNREGA job cards should be issued to them as soon as possible. List of skilled and semi-skilled labourers should be prepared and provided to the local industries. This will help labourers to get regular employment and the industries will get the manpower required.The government also decided that the shops in the state will open six days a week with proper measures and precautions.The meeting also discussed restarting the maximum number of industries in the state. After the third phased of lockdown 1,371 factories in the state have started functioning again. Nearly 1.3 lakh labourers have returned to work in these factories, the statement said.According to the government, 2.12 lakh migrant labourers have been brought back to the state so far.The district collectors have been sanctioned Rs 18.24 crore from State Disaster Relief Fund and Rs 4 crore by State Government for helping the labourers stranded in other states. A total of Rs 66. 73 lakh was transferred into the bank accounts of migrant labourers in various states till now. Health Department was also provided Rs 75 crore from State Disaster Relief Fund, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-chhattisgarh-psychologists-to-counsel-labourers-in-quarantine-centres/story-QAgksqghfIlLku7o9NmTaL.html
27-05-2020||India||‘Uncertainty on domestic flights caused by states’: Hardeep Puri||Some states were not ready to resume domestic flight operations, said aviation minister Hardeep Puri, underlining that they had to be persuaded to come on board. The minister talked about the Centre’s exit strategy from the lockdown, why the government may not be able to provide a financial bailout to airlines in an interview with Hindustan Times’ Anisha Dutta.Here are the edited excerpts from the interview: Q: Domestic flight resumption took off with a lot of confusion over flight cancellations. Has the situation improved now?A: It is not correct to use the term confusion here. There was uncertainty because some states decided to not resume flight operations on May 25. We have had multiple discussions with them prior to the announcements on the domestic flights. We had also issued a central SOP for domestic travel but many went ahead and issued their own guidelines. Many of their SOPs came in very late and our meeting with the airlines ended by around 9 pm. Many cancellations occurred due to this. The situation is now stabilised and much better with just six cancellations on day two and 445 flight departures ferrying 30,944 passengers and 447 arrival flights with 31,697 passengers. Q: Would it not have been easier if states were taken on board prior to the announcement?A: The states have been on board from day one, contrary to what is being said. Discussions with them started as early as May 15. When we announced the resumption on 22nd, we had held several rounds of discussion, before deciding to give it three more days. There were a few things. First, whether the state is willing to accept, some states were not keen but when they were told economic activity is needed, they changed their mind. Second, are the airports ready? All our airports were ready on the 15th, airlines were ready but they wanted six days’ notice. What happened in this was two or three states could not take flights, they told us very frankly our doctors and all are not in a position, they are in a cyclone condition so we said you take your time…It is not a question of explaining why but the press became a commentator, it played headlines like “total chaos” and some people said let’s not fly. What is the chaos? The chaos is on some flights being cancelled. What are the reasons some flights are cancelled? It is very clear because the state government has a problem. Second issue was that the SOPs were issued by the states very late. Now the SOPs are in place. Andhra Pradesh has opened up. West Bengal will on May 28. Q: There are a few Covid-19 positive cases reported in flights since the resumption. Were you prepared for it?A: We were. We have taken the precautions at airports where you don’t need any human contact; you print out your boarding pass, your luggage gets sanitised, then you are inside the aircraft with the protective gear and the aircraft is also disinfected. We have taken as many measures as humanly possible. But I keep saying there is a risk in everything. There is a massive conflict between those who want things to desperately open and go about their work and those who pick up any case and make a big thing about it. Airlines are equipped to deal with cases. If they have a positive case and they decide to ground the crew, the airlines will have to pay that price. Q: What about international flight operations, are we prepared to resume? A: I don’t see that happening for some time. International civil aviation traffic is dependent on something completely different, it depends on other countries, international trade and business activity. Will the demand of international traffic continue to be low, what will be the new norm? Aravind Panagariya had said, even when you had big disruptions earlier trade still picked up globally. I see it picking up again, but it is too early to say. In India we have a pretty stable domestic traffic, it will pick up as people will want to move. Q: But you had earlier said it could resume by August?A: I was asked if you will be able to start international civil aviation by August or September, I had said we could do that even earlier. What does that mean? We have two months to go. We are already scaling up the number of people we are bringing back through Vande Bharat Mission. Our idea was to bring those people back who were genuinely stranded and distressed. But many of the people coming back are not stranded in the manner in which we originally envisaged when the scheme was announced.Q: How much is your estimate of the total debt in the aviation sector? A: You can only do a damage assessment when the resumption has taken place because the damage is on a continuing basis. Q: Do you see any Indian airline closing down?A: I hope not but they are under stress. I am not going to get involved in that but there are two issues involved. As a government, we have to be acutely cautious and mindful of all that needs to be done on the health factor and make sure people are safe and that is paramount, but equally we also have to be conscious about what is happening to the economy. It’s been two months since airports and airlines have not had any revenue, even parked aircraft on ground also cost money. And even if you don’t have 100% flights running, you can at least have some cost being recovered. Q: When can we expect a financial bailout of the sector? A: First of all if financial bailouts were taking place why would so many global airlines have gone bust?... It is a difficult situation. We have given a large number of measures to mitigate their stress. But I am not sure that the system as it is structured right now is geared to giving any bailout. Even the media sector is facing a lot of financial stress, many newspapers are going to go and channels are also facing problems. Is the government going to give a bailout? I can be polite and say, yes press is very important but I don’t see that happening. The business model of airlines is particularly precarious. But the government can’t give billion dollar bailouts. It doesn’t happen for any sector in India. We will support their demands on Aviation Turbine Fuel taxation, that will get rationalized among other measures but we can’t bailout an individual. That will mean we are giving taxpayers’ money to bail out an individual business. Q: What happens to the Air India divestment plan? A: It is on. Air India has to be divested, there is absolutely no question on that. At this stage, to keep anything going by way of subsidy is almost impossible to justify. Q: Will we see further easing of restrictions after May 31?A: One hundred per cent. I am speaking in my personal capacity, of course.Q: What is the exit strategy from the lockdown going forward? A: Mr Rahul Gandhi says lockdown has been a failure. Let us look at the situation, you had two months of lockdown, at the very least the lockdown has succeeded in keeping the numbers at a very low level. The mortality rate today is 2.7%. It has come down from 3%, total number of cases, my figure may not be exact, at 150,000 and around 70,000 recovered. But the lockdown achieved another significant objective—it kept the numbers low and it gave us time to build the health infrastructure. We were able to go from complete import of PPEs to a massive domestic production, where today we are one of the largest producers of PPEs in the world. Reviving the economy, agriculture sector, opening factories, starting construction etc, that is the exit strategy. Q: So, you’re saying the main idea of the lockdown was to get time to prepare the medical infrastructure, and be prepared for more cases?A: When the virus hit us, we were one of the first countries to act fast on it. I cancelled flights from China in a big decision, we stopped flights to the extent possible from other hotspots, we began screening, as our international airports we screened more than 15 lakh people coming in, we evacuated people from outside and finally and most importantly we were able to get a system in place to prepare our health infrastructure across states. Our figure now looks high but the total number of deaths is very low, about 4,000 or so, those are the number of deaths you have in five days in traffic accidents. The mortality rate is 2.7% whereas for SARS it was 17%. You have to learn to live with the virus. Mr Gandhi said lockdown was a failure, what is plan B? Lockdown has not been a failure, it has enabled us to control the numbers and build your infrastructure and to prepare for the exit strategy. You have to, in any system, take precaution, which we did in a timely manner and succeeded in controlling the numbers. Being permanently in lockdown is not a solution, you have to prepare an exit strategy. Mobility is an essential part of the exit strategy. When you are in lockdown, the economic activity takes a severe beating and you have to revive that. The strategy is to open up the supply chain and start operation of essential goods and services and mobility is very much a part of that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uncertainty-on-domestic-flights-caused-by-states-hardeep-puri/story-82Cjz8spC6aeD0vEhEsBqN.html
27-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Tripura chief minister asks villages to set up quarantine centres||Tripura government on Wednesday asked all panchayat secretaries and village councils to set up village quarantine centres in their respective areas to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease Covid-19. “Through Teleconference instructed all Panchayat Secretaries & Village Councils to set up at least one institutional quarantine center each at their respective areas, which will be under Health Dept’s supervision. Concerned authorities shall maintain proper hygiene of these centers,” Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb wrote on his Twitter.  Through Teleconference instructed all Panchayat Secretaries & Village Councils to setup atleast one institutional quarantine center each at their respective areas, which will be under Health Dept's supervision. Concerned authorities shall maintain proper hygiene of these centers. pic.twitter.com/XaYkd6nOoNEarlier this month, the state had constituted Corona Monitoring and Awareness Committees in panchayat and village councils with public representatives as members. The committees were asked to set up at least one quarantine centre in their respective areas.The state also issued a 10-point guideline for setting up of village quarantine centres.According to the guidelines, all the returnees may be quarantined for 14 days in the village quarantine centres and thereafter they may be released by the panchayat or village committee with proper records. These village quarantines would be regulated by the sub divisional magistrates under guidance of district magistrates who would ensure social distancing norms, frequent sanitisation, wearing of face-masks and regular health check-up are maintained properly. Law minister Ratan Lal Nath on Wednesday evening told the media,” We are laying stress on people returning to state to remain in home quarantine. We are conducting tests on them on the basis 1:5 ratio. Our way of tackling the Covid-19 pandemic is the best model in the country.”The total number of Covid-19 patients in Tripura stands at 230 while 165 patients have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-tripura-chief-minister-asks-villages-to-set-up-quarantine-centres/story-EhOQ11RTE5Yez2ODS8ZmMM.html
27-05-2020||India||In Odisha, Covid-19 positive couple allowed to stay in home quarantine||For the first time since ICMR changed its guidelines on home isolation of Covid-19 positive patients with mild or no symptoms, the Odisha government has put a couple from Kendrapara district in a home isolation facility.The couple from Kendrapara municipality area was put in home isolation from May 19 after their reports returned positive, said Kendrapara district collector Samarth Verma. The couple who live in a rented house in Jaipura area under Kendrapara municipality had returned from Bangalore with their son on May 17.After their return, the couple and their son stayed in a government quarantine centre in a high school in Bandhapada gram panchayat. On May 19, their swab samples were sent for Covid-19 testing. On May 25, the results of the swab test for the couple returned positive while it was negative for their son.However, before the swab test results arrived, the couple had gone back to their rented home with their son.“As the man was diabetic and his wife had issues with her spinal cord, their son had written to us requesting that they be allowed home isolation in view of their health conditions. As they were asymptomatic, we had allowed home isolation. Now that they have tested positive, we have asked them to stay in home isolation for 17 days instead of being admitted in a dedicated Covid-19 hospital as per ICMR guidelines,” Collector Verma said.Additional chief secretary, health department, PK Mohapatra said though the ICMR in its amended guideline had allowed home isolation of asymptomatic Covid-19 positive patients in both rural and urban areas for patients with separate toilet facilities, Odisha was doing it in urban areas only. “As the couple is unlikely to move out and have separate toilet facilities, they were not admitted in a Covid-19 hospital. Quarantine stickers have been put outside their home and the health officials from Kendrapara municipality will carry out regular surveillance. Their son, who tested negative is also staying in home isolation in that house,” said Mohapatra.However, he said if such patients develop symptoms, they will be rushed to the nearby Covid-19 hospital.Meanwhile, the number of Covid-19 cases in Odisha inched close to 1600 as 76 new positive cases were reported on Wednesday taking the total tally to 1,593. So far, 774 people have been discharged from various Covid-19 hospitals while the number of active cases in Odisha stood at 812.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-odisha-covid-19-positive-couple-allowed-to-stay-in-home-quarantine/story-Jz88yjZ9PEPBxIsm8lfgSK.html
27-05-2020||India||Mercury nears 50-degree mark in Rajasthan; IMD says no immediate respite in sight||Parts of northern and western India reeled under scorching heat on Wednesday, with temperatures hovering near the 50 degree-mark in Rajasthan, while the IMD said no immediate respite is likely from the ongoing heatwave conditions.In the national capital, the mercury settled six notches above normal in most areas. Palam remained the hottest with a maximum temperature of 47.2 degrees Celsius, marginally less than Tuesday’s 47.6 degrees Celsius.In large areas, a heatwave is declared when the maximum temperature is 45 degrees Celsius for two consecutive days and a severe heatwave is when the mercury touches 47 degrees Celsius for two days on the trot.In small areas, like the national capital, a heatwave is declared if the temperature soars to 45 degrees Celsius even for a day, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for Delhi, recorded a maximum temperature of 45.9 degrees Celsius.The last time the mercury touched the 46-degree mark at the Safdarjung weather station was on May 19, 2002, said Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the India Meteorological Department (IMD).The all-time record for Safdarjung in May is 47.2 degrees Celsius. It was recorded on May 29, 1944.The IMD said the weather stations at Lodhi Road and Ayanagar recorded maximum temperatures of 45.1 degrees Celsius and 46.7 degrees Celsius, respectively.Severe heatwave conditions prevailed in Rajasthan. Churu was the hottest place in the state with a maximum temperature of 49.6 degrees Celsius, according to the meteorological (MeT) department.On Tuesday, Churu had recorded a high of 50 degrees Celsius -- the district’s second-highest maximum temperature in the month of May in the last 10 years.Ganganagar, Bikaner and Kota recorded maximum temperatures of 48.9 degrees Celsius, 48 degrees Celsius and 47.2 degrees Celsius, respectively, on Wednesday.Jaisalmer recorded a high of 46.1 degrees Celsius, Barmer 45.9 degrees Celsius, Jaipur 44.8 degrees Celsius and Ajmer 44 degrees Celsius.The weather department said heatwave conditions will continue in the state for the next 24 hours.Neighbouring Haryana, too, reeled under blistering heat, with Narnaul recording the highest maximum temperature at 47.2 degrees Celsius, the weather department said.Hisar recorded a maximum temperature of 46.3 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal.Among other places in the state, Ambala sizzled at 43.8 degrees Celsius, while the mercury settled at 42.8 degrees Celsius in Karnal.Sweltering heat also swept Punjab, where Patiala recorded a high of 44.2 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal.Amritsar and Ludhiana also recorded above-normal temperatures of 43.5 degrees Celsius and 44.2 degrees Celsius, respectively.Chandigarh, the common capital of Haryana and Punjab, also experienced a hot day at 42.9 degrees Celsius -- four degrees above normal.Jammu recorded the hottest day of the season as the mercury settled at 42.6 degrees Celsius, 3.5 notches above the season’s average, the MeT department said.The city recorded a low of 26.4 degrees Celsius, which was also 1.5 degrees above normal, it said.Srinagar recorded a maximum temperature of 30.3 degrees Celsius -- 4.2 notches above normal. It is a marginal drop from Tuesday’s 31.7 degrees Celsius.Katra, the base camp for pilgrims visiting Vaishno Devi shrine in Reasi district, recorded a maximum temperature of 37.5 degrees Celsius and a minimum of 23.7 degrees Celsius.The weather department predicted isolated light rain or thunder in most parts of Jammu and Kashmir during the next 24 hours. But there will be an increase in precipitation over the subsequent two days.The IMD said the ongoing heatwave conditions in several parts of north and central India are very likely to continue on Thursday. It said some respite can be expected only towards the end of the week.“Due to the prevailing dry north-westerly winds over plains of northwest India, central India and the adjoining interior parts of eastern India, the present heatwave conditions are very likely to continue during next 24 hours,” it said. Heatwave conditions at many places with severe heatwave in isolated pockets are very likely over Vidarbha, west Rajasthan, it added.Heatwave conditions are also likely in some pockets over Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and east Rajasthan, and in isolated pockets over Punjab, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Saurashtra and Kutch, central Maharashtra and Marathwada, Telangana and north interior Karnataka during the next 24 hours, according to the IMD.A western disturbance is likely to give some relief on May 29 and 30. During this period, parts of north India are likely to witness dust storms and thunderstorms, it said.Western disturbance is a cyclonic circulation which originates in the Mediterranean Sea. Traversing central Asia, it brings rains to the hills and plains when it comes in contact with the Himalayas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mercury-nears-50-degree-mark-in-rajasthan-imd-says-no-immediate-respite-in-sight/story-XKm5MzLvh8GTJXr25mIw4M.html
27-05-2020||India||Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh employ drones to kill locusts||Swarms of desert locusts have affected around 50 districts in the country and drones are now being used in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh to spray chemicals for killing the pest.According to global forecast by the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations (FAO), in addition to the current outbreak, locust swarms from new areas can also enter the Indian border from June 22. KL Gurjar, deputy collector, Locust Warning Office, said some adult groups and swarms were expected to arrive in the country from the spring breeding areas. “Vigilance will have to be maintained towards the expected invasion of locusts in coming days,” he said.On Wednesday, the swarms from Dausa in Rajasthan, where 22 districts are affected, reached Agra in Uttar Pradesh. In fact, UP is getting locust swarms from two directions: in east from Rajasthan and in south from Madhya Pradesh.According to officials in UP and Madhya Pradesh, at least 10 districts in each of these states have seen locust attacks in the past week or so.In Madhya Pradesh, swarms of desert locusts have entered mainly from two areas - Neemuch in the Malwa region and Sheopur in the Gwalior-Chambal region - both close to the Rajasthan border, more than two weeks back. The 10 districts where locusts are active: Gwalior in northern MP, Agar Malwa and Dewas in the Malwa region, Rajgarh, Betul and Hoshangabad in the central region, Sidhi and Satna in the Vindhya region and Damoh in the Bundelkhand region, said Ajeet Kesari, MP’s principal secretary, department of agriculture.Rajasthan has been under the grip of locust attacks since mid-April, when they came from Baluchistan in Pakistan. Two swarms were present in Jaipur on Tuesday night – one in Samode and the second in Langariyawas gram panchayat.“There was a massive control operation against the two swarms and we managed to kill almost 70% at both locations,” said BR Kadwa, deputy director of the agriculture department in Jaipur.The state government used drones to kill locusts in Samode, about 40km north-west of Jaipur. Agriculture commissioner Om Prakash said they plan to hire 30 drones to kill locusts, which has spread to 22 districts of the state. The drones are used to spray chemicals on breeding sites of the locusts.Gurjar said the agriculture drones are being used to kill the pests and the Centre will provide additional drones to the states to control the spread of the locust in the coming days. “We are increasing the air potential and also our ground teams,” he said.This year’s outbreak started on April 11 when locust swarms entered Rajasthan from Hindumalkot in Sriganganagar and Babla in Jaisalmer.“The immature locusts spread to Jaisalmer, Barmer, Ganganagar and parts of Jodhpur until May 1. After that, the swarms began to wander farther, coming as far as Jaipur, which is about 700km from the international border,” said Dr Suwa Lal Jat, joint director (plant protection) of agriculture department, adding that 120 teams for survey and monitoring of movement of locusts have been constituted.In Maharashtra, the impact of locust could be seen in three districts --- Wardha, Amravati and Nagpur districts, which are very close to Madhya Pradesh. “The invasion started on Monday morning. The most impacted are orange orchards. A 25% loss is being estimated as of now,” said Ravindra Bhosale, divisional joint director agriculture, Nagpur division.“The swarm is now moving deeper into rural areas of the Nagpur division. At Kalmeshwar taluka on Tuesday, we were informed of damage to vegetable crops across 5-6 hectares, including cabbage, ladyfinger, cauliflower, and kidney beans.”In Haryana, four districts, Sirsa, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri and Rewari have been put on alert after swarms reached the bordering areas in Rajasthan’s Sikar district. “We have put several districts on alert. We have also instructed all the farmers that if they encounter any swarms then they should inform the government so that we can kill them,” Haryana Agriculture Minister Jayaprakash Dalal said.Gurjar said, “Intensity of swarms of locusts is decreasing by the day as we are able to control them from 30% to 60% every time wherever they settle in the evening, by spraying chemicals over them.”“We are using tractors, spray pumps and also fire brigade tenders to spray chemicals over the swarms. As per the report that we received from all the affected districts in the evening we were able to control the groups with chemicals varying in degree in different districts from 25% to 45%,” he said.Unlike other insects, the increase in temperature does not kill locust.“There is hardly any impact of high temperature in summers on the desert locusts. They just move ahead looking for food,” said Gurjar.(With input from Anupam Pateriya in Sagar and agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-madhya-pradesh-employ-drones-to-kill-locusts/story-ivBzYEyqLRQQcHrogWvwiL.html
27-05-2020||India||Amid border row, India hopes for better ties as Nepal defers map update||The Indian government believes the debate in Nepal over a constitutional amendment to give legal backing to a new map, which depicts Kalapani and Lipulekh as part of Nepalese territory, reflects the importance attached to improving bilateral ties, people familiar with developments said on Wednesday.The government of Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli had to defer its plan to move the constitutional amendment in Parliament to update the map after the main opposition Nepali Congress party sought time for more discussions on the issue.There were also reports from Kathmandu that the move could be linked to efforts for back channel contacts between the two sides to address a row that erupted after India recently inaugurated an 80-km road to Lipulekh on the Chinese border. Nepal, which claims Lipulekh, protested the opening of the road but the external affairs ministry contended it was “completely within the territory of India”.The people cited above, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the Indian side is monitoring the situation and following developments, and had noted the larger ongoing debate on the border issue within Nepal.“The debate underlines the seriousness of this issue. It also demonstrates the value being attached to relations between Nepal and India,” said one of the people cited above.“Border issues are sensitive by nature and require trust and confidence to be resolved to mutual satisfaction,” the person added.People familiar with developments in Kathmandu said the country’s budget for fiscal 2020-21 is scheduled to be presented in Parliament on May 28, which would mean that the constitutional amendment to alter the country’s political map is unlikely to be taken up anytime soon.“The focus will move to the budget and this could create some space for negotiations on the border issue,” said a person who declined to be identified.However, the Nepal government is apparently miffed that the country’s ambassador to India, Nilamber Acharya, has not yet been granted a meeting with senior officials in the external affairs ministry to discuss the border issue.The Oli government had planned to table the constitutional amendment in Parliament on Tuesday to give legal backing to the new political map released on May 18 that shows Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura as part of the country’s territory. All three regions are the subject of disputes with India. The constitutional amendment will have to be passed with a two-thirds majority by the House of Representatives and the National Assembly.When Oli called a meeting of all political parties on Tuesday to seek backing for the amendment, two parties from the Madhes region demanded that their calls for constitutional amendments should be incorporated, while the main opposition Nepali Congress said it needed to discuss the proposal further, The Kathmandu Post reported.“We support the territorial integrity of the country and we also support the government’s release of the map,” Nepali Congress leader Krishna Prasad Situala said. “But a decision on the amendment to update the map will be made at the forthcoming Central Working Committee meeting. So we requested that the amendment be put on hold for the time being.”The ruling Nepal Communist Party has a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly, but needs support from other parties to pass the constitutional amendment in the House of Representatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-border-row-india-hopes-for-better-ties-as-nepal-defers-map-update/story-KlI8Z1dIOsip3TGlUf6WCP.html
27-05-2020||India||SC seeks govt response on plea for CBI probe into Tablighi Jamaat meet||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought the response of the Centre and the Delhi government on a plea seeking a CBI probe into the alleged lapses by the Delhi government and Delhi police which led to the congregation of devotees at Tablighi Jamaat Markaz in Nizamuddin and migrant workers at Anand Vihar Bus Terminal in Delhi.The petitioner, Supriya Pandita alleged that the Delhi police failed to arrest Nizamuddin Markaz chief Maulana Saad who organized the religious event resulting in a surge in the spread of coronavirus across the country.“Ignoring all social distancing norms to avoid the deadly coronavirus, hundreds had been staying in the 100-year-old mosque since March 8. More than 2,000 delegates from Malaysia, Indonesia, Saudi Arabia and Kyrgyzstan attended the congregation of Tablighi Jamaat,” Pandita pointed out.The Nizamuddin area in Delhi was sealed on March 30, after it came to light that several people, who had attended a religious event held in March at Nizamuddin by a Muslim organisation called Tablighi Jamaat, were found to be infected with coronavirus. At least 16,500 people had visited Tablighi Jamaat’s headquarters in Nizamuddin between March 13 and 24.Several people who attended the gathering tested Covid-19 positive in various parts of India causing “cluster transmission” of the virus across the country, Pandita submitted.“At the request of Mr Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General appearing for Union of India, list the matter next week to enable him to file a reply affidavit,” the top court said in its order.The petition also sought a probe into the gathering of migrant labourers at Anand Vihar Bus Terminal in New Delhi on March 28. Migrant workers hailing from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar had gathered at the bus terminal situated in the eastern border of Delhi in a bid to board buses to their home states.Pandita told the court that the Delhi police and the Delhi government had failed to control people from coming out of their houses despite the Prime Minister having proclaimed a complete lockdown on March 24.“They (Delhi government and Delhi Transport Corporation) arranged buses to drop the migrant workers at Anand Vihar Bus Terminal despite knowing that buses were not allowed on roads and movement of people was restricted,” the petition stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-govt-response-on-plea-for-cbi-probe-into-tablighi-jamaat-meet/story-rO3JpKcJl6rVmFIxQQRXOP.html
27-05-2020||India||SC reserves order on funding for Amrapali’s stalled housing projects||The Supreme Court on Wednesday reserved orders on the crucial aspect of mobilizing funds for completing the stalled housing projects of stressed real estate giant Amrapali Group.The Receiver in a note to the court pointed out that work on these projects had hit a wall for lack of funds. He suggested a slew of steps to be taken by the Centre, the Noida and Greater Noida Authorities and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to resume work with immediate effect.The Ministry of Finance, represented by Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Vikramjeet Banerjee told the Court that the Government had empowered SBI Capital Markets (SBI CAPS) for any seed capital funding of the Amrapali projects. The National Buildings Construction Corporation (NBCC) is executing these projects since July 2019 after SC ordered cancellation of Amrapali’s registration under the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, in short RERA, for alleged siphoning of homebuyers’ money.A bench of Justices Arun Mishra and UU Lalit told senior advocate Harish Salve that his client SBI Caps should bear in mind that no private player is involved in the project construction which involves the Receiver handling the projects and NBCC executing the works.Salve sought a week’s time to discuss the matter with his client and apprise the Court on the possibility of fund release. The Court had proposed a release of Rs 500 crore during the hearing in the case last week.Senior advocate R Venkatramani, the Receiver appointed by the Court was confident that his suggestions on home loan disbursement by banks, funds from SBI Caps, utilization of unused floor area ratio (FAR) and waiver of GST by Noida and Greater Noida authorities will be favourably considered by the bench.“The Court is pushing all authorities and governments into quick motion as regards the funding and execution of projects. It is also looking into more than one direction for source of funding by relaxing the current criteria with regard to loans and taxes for the projects,” Venkatramani told HT.One of the suggestions by the Receiver requires the RBI to relax rules to enable banks to release the balance loan amount of homebuyers, including those falling under the NPA category. The Centre informed the Court that a decision in this regard cannot be taken by RBI as it is best left to be considered by the individual lending banks.The Receiver’s note also suggested GST waiver on construction that could help save close to Rs 1,000 crore and sale of unused FAR in the projects, instead of returning it to the land owning authorities. The UP land authorities opposed these suggestions. They put the onus on homebuyers to clear all pending dues of the land owning authorities.The bench responded tersely, “You must be more accommodating with regard to charging of interest. Some relaxation you must give or else all projects will fall through.” The homebuyers disputed the claim for dues by Noida/Greater Noida authorities. Their lawyer ML Lahoty cited the Court’s judgment to show that buyers have paid up dues and are entitled to compensation on account of delayed construction. The Court asked homebuyers to be pragmatic and not be under any impression to enjoy the property without paying up any dues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-reserves-order-on-funding-for-amrapali-s-stalled-housing-projects/story-vamEU4LUVIP8f5tj9EwDFN.html
27-05-2020||India||Russia announces postponement of Brics and SCO Summits in wake of Covid-19||Russia announced on Wednesday that summit meetings of the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) grouping and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), which it was to host in July, has been postponed because of the Covid-19 pandemic.The two summits were to be held in St Petersburg during July 21-23. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was expected to attend both meetings.“In view of the coronavirus pandemic and the related restrictions, the Organising Committee to Prepare and Support Russia’s SCO Presidency in 2019-2020 and BRICS Chairmanship in 2020 decided to postpone the BRICS leaders’ meeting and the meetings of the SCO Heads of State Council, initially scheduled to take place on July 21-23, 2020, in St Petersburg,” said an official statement from the Kremlin.“The new dates for these summits will be determined on the basis of the epidemiological situation in the states participating in these associations, and around the world,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russia-announces-postponement-of-brics-and-sco-summits-in-wake-of-covid-19/story-MXxNTgwQgjkQT7HGu8ojEI.html
27-05-2020||India||RSS hands out Giloy saplings in Uttarakhand to boost immunity against Covid-19||The Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) has started distributing saplings of Glioy (Tinospora Cordifolia), a medicinal plant, to households in Dehradun to boost immunity of the people against infections like Covid-19.Uma Dutt, RSS vibhag sewa pramkukh Dehradun said they decided to distribute Giloy saplings to households in Dehradun after many Ayurvedic practitioners and medical experts suggested that medicinal herbs like Glioy enhance immunity and could be help in protecting against infections like Covid-19.Dehradun had the maximum Covid-19 cases in Uttarakhand, before Nainital took over as the district with the maximum cases in the state a few days back.“Even yoga guru Ramdev has suggested that consuming ‘kaada’ (decoction) of Giloy and Tulasi with black pepper, turmeric and ginger would boost the immunity of people against viral infections,” he said.The RSS campaign to distribute the saplings began less than a week ago.Krishnanand Bhatt, RSS Nagar Sanchalak Kedarnagar Dehradun said they have plans to distribute over 5,000 saplings of Giloy to people in Dehradun.“We have already distributed over 2,100 saplings of Giloy saplings to households in our area. Our RSS workers are going from door to door and distributing these saplings. Even the union Ayush ministry has suggested the use of Ayurvedic herbs for boosting immunity. In the coming days, we will distribute more,” he said.The union ministry of AYUSH (Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy) has suggested use of some herbs for boosting immunity and also invited suggestions on its website from AYUSH practitioners and institutions for restraining the spread of the Covis-19 pandemic or manage the disease. However, it has also put a disclaimer on its website that its advisory “does not claim to be treatment for Covid-19”.Prof Neeraj Misra from Lucknow University, who has expertise in biophysics said they studied the efficacy of substances found in some medicinal plants including Giloy on the inhibition of Covid-19 in April, while collaborating with the experts from Gorakhpur University in Uttar Pradesh. He said their paper titled ‘On the Inhibition of Covid-19 Protease by Indian Herbal Plants: An In Silico Investigation’ is currently being peer-reviewed. In silico means research conducted by means of computer modelling or computer simulation.“We extracted 18 compounds from 11 medicinal plants including Giloy and evaluated their inhibition properties against Covid-19 receptor protease. The virus binds with the receptor protein on the human cell to enter it and cause infection. If we can bind this receptor protein with any chemical substance, then the virus’s ability to enter the cell is inhibited. We studied the binding of Covid-19 protease (6LU7) receptor with the extracts of Indian herbalplants like Giloy by molecular docking. And our analyses suggested that the Covid-19 protease can be inhibited to varying degrees by the extracts of Indian herbal plants, including Giloy,” Prof Misra said.Prof Ambrish Srivastava, a biophysicist from Gorakhpur University said, “Our calculations on the binding affinity of the extracted compounds suggested that Harsingar (night jasmine or parijat) had the maximum inhibition potential followed by aloe vera, Giloy, turmeric and so on,” he said, adding, “it is promising predictive study and needs to be corroborated with clinical studies”, he said.Uttarakhand has so far reported 438 cases of Covid-19 with infection rate of 2.28% and doubling rate (in last seven days) of 3.99 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-hands-out-giloy-saplings-in-uttarakhand-to-boost-immunity-against-covid-19/story-P0FxoSCmySliRfYaAKkEqI.html
27-05-2020||India||Migrants’ kid dies as father hunts for milk at railway station||The four-and-a-half- year-old son of migrants from Bihar based in Delhi died at the railway station here on arrival by a ‘Shramik Special’ train, while his father desperately hunted for some milk he believed will save his child.Maqsood Alam alias Mohd Pintu, the bereaved father, worked as a house painter until the coronavirus-induced lockdown rendered him jobless and drove him to penury, forcing the family to leave their rented home in a Delhi slum and head home after selling off their meagre belongings.Accompanied by wife Zeba and son Ishaq, Alam had started the journey with some excitement, trying to forget the travails of the past and hoping to reach his native place in West Champaran district on Monday, the day Eid would be celebrated.The child had fallen ill, apparently because of oppressive heat. By the time our train reached Muzaffarpur junction his condition had deteriorated considerably. I ran pillar to post searching for some milk for my son. The administration took too long to respond and the child lost the battle for life, alleged Alam.We saw the prospect of reaching home on Eid as a good omen. Who knew that God had something else in store for us, said the grief-stricken father, his wife still in a state of shock and unable to speak.Deputy Superintendent of Police, Railway, Ramakant Upadhyay, however, claimed the boy was ailing for some time and had died before the train reached Muzaffarpur station.The family boarded a Danapur-bound train and the boy, who was apparently in poor health for some time, fell seriously ill on board. From Danapur they took one of the intra-state trains, headed for Sitamarhi, which was to make a stopover at Muzaffarpur junction.“The child had died before the train pulled up at the platform here and we rushed as soon as we got information, Upadhyay said.He said arrangements were made for the family’s journey to West Champaran by the administration, which also made an ex-gratia payment.Incidentally, on the very same day and around the same time, a train pulled up on a different platform carrying hordes of migrants. Among whom was a woman who breathed her last shortly before Ishaq’s death.Arvina Khatun (35), a widowed mother of two and said to be mentally disturbed, lived in Gujarat with her sister and brother-in-law. She fell ill on the Shramik Special they had boarded for reaching their native district of Katihar.She died a few minutes before the train reached Muzaffarur junction around noon on Monday and her body was brought down by her relatives with the help of co-passengers.Video footage of her younger child, barely a year old, playing with a blanket placed on the womans body, as if in an attempt to wake her up, has gone viral and triggered outrage on social media.Upadhyay said the body was taken into custody for postmortem and sent to Katihar after completing the legal formalities.According to some estimates, more than 15 lakh migrant workers have returned to Bihar from across the country while five lakh more are likely to arrive over the next few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrants-kid-dies-as-father-hunts-for-milk-at-railway-station/story-k16TMTqCjg1Bnsm2rXzZJL.html
27-05-2020||India||Tipplers rejoice as wine shops in Kerala set to open on Thursday||The long wait of tipplers in Kerala is finally over with the state government giving its nod to an app to supply alcohol through the state-run Beverages Corporation outlets and bar hotels from Thursday.Liquor outlets in the state were closed on March 24 when the first round of lockdown was imposed in the country. But a few days into the lockdown, wine shops had briefly opened for some days before the government shut them down for good.Later the state government had asked startup firms to develop an app to ensure hassle-free supply and zeroed in on one, ‘BevQ.’ The selection had also its share for controversies as the opposition alleged a kickback in the contract.The new app can be accessed from Google playstore and there is an SMS service option for those who don’t own a smartphone. Once logged in a time slot will be given to the customer and not more than five people will be allowed at a time. Once the location is identified, the app allots the nearest outlet to the user. Nobody without an e-token will be allowed to buy alcohol.“We have tested the app several times and are satisfied with its functioning. Customers will have to ensure social distancing norms strictly. We will keep a strict watch on all outlets,” said excise minister T P Ramakrishnan.A customer can buy a maximum of three litres of alcohol at a time and can log in only after five days. He said there was no plan for home delivery now.Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan also said the new app will ensure a hassle-free supply.“Three cheers. We were left without it for more than two months. I will store my stock on the first day itself,” said a regular drinker . But he was sceptical that an unusual rush may force the government to backtrack.All outlets - 301 state beverages outlets, 576 bar hotels and 290 beer and wine parlours - came back to life after authorities allowed stocking of bottles.Last year the state earned Rs 14,500 crore from liquor. On an average the Beverages Corporation sells liquor worth Rs 40 to 45 crore a day. Excise duty on liquor is between 300 per cent and 500 per cent in the state which means a Rs 100 bottle of rum in the brewery will cost Rs 400 to Rs 500 in the market. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tipplers-rejoice-as-wine-shops-in-kerala-set-to-open-on-thursday/story-mV39ESnnB7Oe4KdpE4gxjI.html
27-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ‘Migrants sent in trains at random to politically disturb me’, says CM Mamata Banerjee and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Migrants sent in trains at random to politically disturb me’: CM MamataThe Centre is sending millions of migrant workers back to Bengal in trains at random to politically disturb her as Covid-19 cases are spiking in villages that were earlier unaffected, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee alleged on Wednesday. Read more. Floods in Assam affect 2.71 lakh in 11 districts, claim one lifeThe first floods of the year in Assam claimed its first victim on Wednesday with a person drowning in Goalpara district. The total number of those affected by the floods, meanwhile, rose to over 2.71 lakhs. Read more. SC seeks Centre’s response on free Covid treatment in private hospitalsThe Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the Centre to identify private hospitals across the country for treating Covid-19 patients either for free or at a nominal cost. Read more. Cyclone Amphan destroys one-third of world’s largest mangrove delta, tiger habitatAround one-third of the world’s mangrove delta – the Sunderban --- has been damaged by Cyclone Amphan, according to a preliminary assessment of the West Bengal forest department. Read more. Man says Sonu Sood is the next Amitabh Bachchan, his humble response wins over the InternetActor Sonu Sood has been helping migrants return to their home towns amid the lockdown for past two months. However, he has remained modest in the face of immense praise coming his way both in real life and social media. Read more. TikTok rating improves as Google removes more reviewsTikTok rating on Google Play Store has fairly improved to 2.9 stars as more negative reviews have been taken down. The app’s reviews have now been reduced to 20 million on Google Play. Read more. FDCI announces India’s first ever digital fashion weekThe Fashion Design Council Of India (FDCI) is ushering in a new era of digital showcase and re-wiring the fashion system. The apex body goes digital as it announced India’s first ever digital fashion week. Read more. ‘Dangerous’ and ‘amazing’: How Instagram is reacting to this woman’s split on two carsYou’ve probably seen all those scenes of actor Ajay Devgn pulling off the incredibly difficult split on two cars or bikes or even two horses. Well, this video of Aleksandra Kiedrowicz, winner of the eighth edition of Poland Got Talent, reminded of all those videos. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-migrants-sent-in-trains-at-random-to-politically-disturb-me-says-cm-mamata-banerjee-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Pcv6NDZpYbvdZJAM5oDhYO.html
27-05-2020||India||Floods in Assam affect 2.71 lakh in 11 districts, claim one life||The first floods of the year in Assam claimed its first victim on Wednesday with a person drowning in Goalpara district. The total number of those affected by the floods, meanwhile, rose to over 2.71 lakhs.According to the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), 321 villages in 21 revenue circles of Dhemaji, Lakhimpur, Nagaon, Hojai, Darrang, Barpeta, Nalbari, Goalpara, West Karbi Anglong, Dibrugarh and Tinsukia districts have been affected by floods.A total crop area of 2,678 hectares has been submerged by flood waters and 16,720 persons who have been displaced due to flooding are taking shelter in 57 relief camps in the state.Flood waters damaged embankments in Golaghat, Barpeta and Nalbari districts, damaged roads in all the 11 affected districts and damaged bridges in Chirang and Baksa districts.Landslides damaged 30 houses in Dima Hasao district and caused one train to remain stuck at Maibang railway station, ASDMA reported.The water level of Brahmaputra has been rising gradually due to continuous rainfall in the last three-four days. The IMD has warned that the state is likely to receive heavy to extremely heavy rainfall for the next four to five days, reports PTI. Reviewing the flood situation on Wednesday, Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal instructed officials to ensure that all Covid-19 protocols are maintained at the flood relief camps to ensure that the disease doesn’t spread in the community.He instructed officials of the power department to cut off electricity to transformers submerged in flood waters so that deaths due to electrocution do not take place.Sonowal directed the public works department to repair the 157 roads damaged by floods. He informed that Centre has released a first instalment of Rs 386 to the state disaster relief fund.EOM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/floods-in-assam-affect-2-71-lakh-in-11-districts-claim-one-life/story-0uoJQopVdIfuVulPq8rotL.html
27-05-2020||India||Supreme Court seeks Centre’s view on timely disposal of mercy petitions||Six years after the Supreme Court ruled that inordinate delay in deciding upon mercy petitions will result in commutation of death sentence, the apex court on Wednesday sought the Centre’s reply on a plea seeking direction to the government to frame specific procedure, rules and guidelines for timely disposal of mercy petitions.There is currently no time limit for disposing clemency pleas filed before the President.Hearing a petition filed by Shiv Kumar Tripathi in public interest, a three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice SA Bobde said it was keen to explore the possibility of setting a time limit for the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), the nodal Ministry dealing with clemency appeals, to give its recommendation to the President.The bench, also comprising Justices AS Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy, clarified that this exercise will be limited to the role played by Government and not the action of the President in disposing of the mercy pleas. The Centre has been asked to file its response in four weeks.A similar exercise was undertaken by the Supreme Court in 2014 in the case of Shatrughan Chauhan v Union of India. It became a landmark case as the Court released 15 death row convicts after noting “inordinate delay” in disposal of their mercy petitions. Back then, the Court was asked to lay down guidelines for the timely disposal of mercy petitions filed before the President under Article 72 and before the Governor under Article 161, but it simply refused.The judges in Shatrughan Chauhan said, “Although, no time frame can be set for the President for disposal of the mercy petition but we can certainly request the concerned Ministry to follow its own rules rigorously which can reduce, to a large extent, the delay caused.”According to Anup Surendranath, Assistant Professor of Law and Executive Director of Project 39A at Delhi’s National Law University, the Supreme Court’s latest move is uncalled for. Based on Project 39A’s extensive work on death penalty, he explained, “There are MHA guidelines already which require the Centre to call for material and consider peculiarities of each case before formulating their advice to the President. These documents have to come from a variety of sources, including states and prison authorities. Artificially imposing a time limit on the Centre will preclude a proper and detailed consideration of mercy pleas.”The petition by Tripathi has stressed on the need for guidelines in the interest of transparency. It said, “A fair procedure is the natural demand of Article 21 and no procedure itself indicates the possibility of arbitrary exercise of the power.”At present, broad guidelines prescribed by MHA for deciding mercy petitions relate to personality of the accused such as age, sex or mental state of the accused, circumstances of the case, conduct of the offender, medical abnormality falling short of legal insanity, difference of opinion between High Court judges, appearance of fresh evidence, and delay in investigation or trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-seeks-centre-s-view-on-timely-disposal-of-mercy-petitions/story-vAbjBPz5rB8BA0QHYMdqkO.html
27-05-2020||India||80-yr-old woman who fell ill in Visakhapatnam gas leakage incident, dies||An 80-year-old woman, who had fallen sick in the aftermath of the styrene gas leakage at the LG Polymers plant in Andhra Pradesh’s Visakhapatnam 20 days ago, died on Tuesday night. However, the doctors could not immediately confirm if the death was due to the after-effects of the gas leakage. The gas leakage on May 7 had claimed 12 lives and over 500 had fallen sick. Eighty-year-old Pala Venkayamma from RR Venkatapuram village where the LG Polymers plant is located, died of cardiac arrest on Tuesday night after battling for life for nearly a week at King George Hospital at Visakhapatnam. “She was brought to the hospital on May 19 with serious complications like dehydration and kidney-related ailments. We had put her on ventilator and made all efforts to save her life, but she had high electrolytic imbalance and succumbed on Tuesday evening,” hospital superintendent Dr G Arjuna told Hindustan Times.He, however, said it could not be ascertained immediately whether Venkayamma died because of the impact of Styrene gas leakage. “We have sent the body to post-mortem and medical examination. Only then would we be able to tell whether she had died of gas leakage or some other age-related ailments,” he said.As part of the latest health protocol, the hospital authorities first sent her throat swab sample for testing for Covid-19 and only after this test report, they would take up post-mortem, he said.The doctor said Venkayamma was one of the hundreds of persons who was admitted to the hospital immediately after the leakage of Styrene from LG Polymers plant on May 7. “She had been treated like all other patients and discharged on May 14, after full recovery. She was also paid a compensation of Rs 1 lakh by the state government like other hospitalised gas leak victims. But she was brought back to the hospital on May 19,” he said.The KGH superintendent did not rule out the possibility of the old woman dying due to after-effects of Styrene gas leak. “So far, we have not come across any such cases of people complaining about long-term effects of Styrene gas, since it was first such incident ever took place. We have to wait for the autopsy report and other tests,” he said.The YSR Congress government has paid Rs 1 crore each to the families of 12 persons who died of Styrene gas leakage from LG Polymers’ plant. The family members of Venkayamma also demanded that they be paid the same amount as ex gratia.Meanwhile, Telugu Desam Party president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu announced financial assistance of Rs 50,000 to each of the families of the gas leakage victims on behalf of the party. He expressed regret for not being able to call on the families of the victims due to lockdown restrictions.The TDP’s two-day Mahanadu held on digital platform observed two-minute silence over the deaths in Visakhapatnam gas leakage incident.Meanwhile, the Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to entertain the plea of LG Polymers India Ltd for a stay on the Andhra Pradesh high court’s order for seizure of the Visakhapatnam plant till the investigation is completed.It, however, allowed 30 employees of the company to supervise round-the-clock safety measures at the sealed plant. It asked the company to give a list of 30 personnel to the district collector. “This interim direction will continue till the high court considers the matter and passes appropriate directions,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/80-yr-old-woman-who-fell-ill-in-visakhapatnam-gas-leakage-incident-dies/story-e7ch0nREwjCcCMsla3JATK.html
27-05-2020||India||SC seeks Centre’s response on free Covid treatment in private hospitals||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the Centre to identify private hospitals across the country for treating Covid-19 patients either for free or at a nominal cost.The direction came from a bench headed by Chief Justice SA Bobde while hearing a PIL filed by lawyer Sachin Jain on the aspect of private hospitals charging high rates from Covid-19 patients who had nowhere to go.“When the nation is fighting a battle against the pandemic, all such private hospitals which are running on public land (allotted at concessional rates) or are running under the category of ‘charitable institutions’ should be called upon to provide the hospitalization and treatment to the Covid-19 patients pro bono publico (free of cost) or on no-profit basis,” Jain said in his petition.He also informed the Court that majority citizens cannot afford the high cost of treatment at private hospitals and many are not covered under health insurance schemes.He argued that given the resource crunch of government-owned hospitals, “It becomes apparent that the government/public health sector alone may not be able to manage the fallout, and hence, extensive participation of the private healthcare sector would be required.”At present, private hospitals are free to charge any amount from the patients admitted for Covid-19 treatment. The petition said that the concession could be given with regard to hospital bed and basic treatment, while keeping out the surgical operations or procedures from the ambit of free or concessional treatment.The bench, also comprising Justices AS Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy, found merit in this submission and asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to take instructions from the Centre and respond within a week. The bench told Mehta, “These hospitals have been given land either free of cost or at concessional rates. They should treat patients also for free.”Mehta informed the Court that a decision of this nature concerns a policy and must be left to the wisdom of the Government. However, he agreed to take instructions and respond to the concern expressed by the Court within a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-centre-s-response-on-free-covid-treatment-in-private-hospitals/story-VRsuiL1ZWS8WQmysjzKgOP.html
27-05-2020||India||Brazil’s Marcos Troyjo is NDB’s new President, India’s Anil Kishora is VP||Marcos Prado Troyjo, former deputy economy minister of Brazil will replace KV Kamath as the president of the New Development Bank’s (NDB), a multilateral financial institution set up to mobilise resources for infrastructure and sustainable development projects in BRICS and other emerging economies, according to an official statement.The board of governors also appointed Anil Kishora, an Indian, as vice president of the NDB. Kishora, a banker, has 38 years of experience at India’s largest bank, State Bank of India (SBI). Before joining the NDB, he worked as the deputy managing director and chief risk officer of the state-run SBI. The board of governors of NDB on Wednesday unanimously elected Marcos Prado Troyjo as the president. He will take charge on July 7, 2020, the bank said in a statement.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman attended the board meeting through video-conference. Brazilian minister of economy Paulo Guedes, Russian minister of finance Anton Siluanov, Chinese vice minister of finance Jiayi Zou and South African minister of finance Tito Titus Mboweni also attended the virtual meeting.In her opening remarks, Sitharaman commended the contribution of NDB in funding the infrastructure development, which has positively impacted the development agenda of the member countries, including India, the finance ministry said in a statement.“Within a short span of time, NDB has approved 55 projects of member countries for an amount of $16.6 billion, which is quite a remarkable achievement,” it said.Kamath was appointed president of NDB on July 7, 2015 at the inaugural meeting of the board of governors on the eve of the Ufa Summit, when the bank formally came into existence as a legal entity. BRICS countries -- Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa -- are its founders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brazil-s-marcos-troyjo-is-ndb-s-new-president-india-s-anil-kishora-is-vp/story-trXGfcHeec7OxkmQ8gPpuO.html
27-05-2020||India||‘Migrants sent in trains at random to politically disturb me’: CM Mamata||The Centre is sending millions of migrant workers back to Bengal in trains at random to politically disturb her as Covid-19 cases are spiking in villages that were earlier unaffected, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee alleged on Wednesday.Banerjee sought the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “I would like to ask the Prime Minister to please help us,” Banerjee said.Claiming that no state has the infrastructure to screen the passengers of so many trains arriving every day, she said, “While talking over phone I told Union home minister Amit Shah, a few days ago, to take charge of the coronavirus crisis in Bengal. I am thankful that he said how can a government elected by people be dismantled,” Banerjee said. Banerjee made the remarks while addressing bureaucrats at an administrative meeting at the state secretariat. She also addressed the media from the meeting.“The Union railway ministry should have discussed with the state and followed the schedule we had sent. They are sending the trains at random. Eleven trains are arriving tonight and 17 more will arrive tomorrow. How can we screen so many people?” said Banerjee and referred to the post-Amphan crisis her government is facing. “Earlier there were no Covid-19 cases in the villages. Do not do politics,” said Banerjee, addressing the Centre.In a new move, the chief minister announced that quarantine at government facilities for 14 days will be mandatory for migrant workers returning from five states. These are Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu. “Around 25 per cent of these returnees are turning out to be Covid-19 positive. This is bad news for the state,” Banerjee said. These people will be kept in empty school buildings she added and formed special task forces in every community block area.Incidentally, two days ago, the chief minister said those returning to Bengal could stay in home quarantine for two weeks as long as they followed the regulations and their movements were monitored by the health department. Reacting to Banerjee’s statement, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national secretary Rahul Sinha said, “Banerjee is trying to divert attention because right from the beginning she did not want to take responsibility of the migrant workers.”“The chief minister is a failure in every area, be it the Covid-19 crisis or Cyclone Amphan. Now she is begging the Centre to make her look like a martyr because she knows that people in her party are in touch with Amit Shah,” CPI(M) legislator Sujan Chakraborty said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrants-being-sent-in-trains-at-random-to-politically-disturb-me-mamata/story-dHpUyGdHc3gQCRyxH1fAyL.html
27-05-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: J-K govt to ease restrictions in Srinagar district in phases||The Jammu and Kashmir government is planning to ease restrictions in parts of Srinagar district which have reported a decline in the number of Covid-19 cases in the past several days. The district has been under strict lockdown since March 22 and expecting rush on roads just before Eid, authorities had imposed fresh restrictions which also led into altercations between the police and doctors at many places. However, now the administration has decided to gradually ease out some of the restrictions in phases. Deputy Commissioner, Srinagar, Shahid Choudhary hinted at easing out the restrictions, starting Thursday. ‘’The District Disaster Managment Authority conducted a comprehensive review of 36 containment zones in Srinagar. At least 12 zones to have ease in perimeter restrictions like roads, lanes etc starting from tomorrow. Zone wise notification/advisories to be issued,’’ he said while thanking people for cooperating during the lockdown period.’’ Srinagar district has recorded 209 coronavirus positive cases so far, according to the government data released on Wednesday evening. Of these, 126 have recovered while the death toll rose to seven with the death of a 55-year-old man in Srinagar on Wednesday. However, doctors say there has been a decline in the cases in the last two weeks and the fresh cases within the district have been of those who have arrived from different parts of the country.A senior doctor who is part of the government’s Covid-19 response team, said that things are very much stable in the city and for many days now, no new cases have been reported. “The only thing is that people had to remain vigilant and take proper precautions especially wear face masks and use soap and sanitizers.’’ He said that despite this, Srinagar city is still in a red zone area; however it could turn into orange and green zones. “The officials are working hard and with people’s cooperation, the war against Covid-19 could be won,” the doctor added. Officials, however, said that restrictions won’t be eased in containment zones and places from where the Covid-19 cases are reported.In the fourth phase of lockdown, government offices and banks are working in Srinagar, however, there is no public transport plying on the roads and all the schools are shut.“Srinagar had witnessed a long lockdown soon after article 370 was abrogated by the government on August 5 last year. The city should now get some relaxation. There is no surge in the cases and the situation is quite better compared to a month ago,’’ said Lateef Ahmad who runs a furniture business in theold city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-j-k-govt-to-ease-restrictions-in-srinagar-district-in-phases/story-wMEh7r8oz7uUn36Z8gWfxJ.html
27-05-2020||India||Social distancing missing as 400 people jostle to meet Union minister||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on a visit to Sheopur - part of Morena parliamentary constituency that he represents in the Lok Sabha - was surrounded by more than 400 people, depicting an abject lack of social distancing.The minister reached Sheopur, 402 kilometres north of Bhopal, on Monday night and attended certain programmes the day after.At the Nishadraj Bhavan, Tomar felicitated 40 corona warriors. Subsequently, at the collectorate he had a meeting with district officials and public representatives to review the Covid-19 situation.At this point, a large crowd of BJP workers and others, more than 400, gathered to welcome him and also to hand over applications and complaints to him for several works, as per a district administration officer.The video from the scene shows the minister, wearing a mask, walking into a waiting crowd, even as a police officer is trying to push people away. Outstretched hands, holding papers, are being pushed towards the minister as he makes his way to the waiting car.Surendra Jaat, the district BJP president of Sheopur, admitted that social distancing discipline was lacking, but blamed the Congress leaders, workers and others for the situation.“Tomar Saheb repeatedly made an appeal to all to maintain social distancing. The BJP leaders and workers were disciplined. But the Congress MLA Babu Jandel, district Congress president Atul Chauhan, their followers, and also certain other people who wanted to meet the minister to hand over their applications and complaints created the chaotic situation,” alleged Jaat.Congress’ Babu Jandel said the allegations levelled by the BJP are “baseless”.“I met the minister leading a delegation of six to seven party workers with all of us wearing masks and following social distancing norms as decided by the administrative officers whereas most of the BJP workers, more than 200 in number, and surrounding the minister were not wearing masks and not following the social distancing norms.“There were about 200 others who wanted to meet the minister to draw his attention to different problems they are facing,” said Sheopur district Congress president Atul Chauhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/social-distancing-missing-as-400-people-jostle-to-meet-union-minister-narendra-singh-tomar/story-SiBbPmuenq7w3j3lCmgX7K.html
27-05-2020||India||‘Sometimes it’s good to have a quiet birthday’!||Actor Karan Nath, who is busy writing a script these days, spent a birthday under lockdown recently. “Birthdays are fun when you are all at peace but unfortunately, mine came at a time when there is so much chaos around. Never in my wildest dreams had I thought that I would have a birthday like this. Cases of the pandemic are on the rise and everything has taken a back seat for now,” he said.Talking about how his day went, Karan said, “Sometimes, it’s good to have a quiet birthday. This year, it was a family affair with a small, simple cake made by my sister and home food. Also, as I lost my dog recently, I just wanted the day to pass without much hubbub. Besides, in lockdown, nothing much can be done. Yes, wishes did pour in and in such times we all need blessings and good thoughts. Life is so tough at present with people struggling to survive, migrants walking home, and it is all so sad and depressing.”Karan had a release in February and then everything went on hold. Talking about his work plans, he said, “Maharashtra is the worst hit and Mumbai has reported maximum cases that is more worrisome for all of us. Starting shooting in full force seems like a distant dream at present and it will be difficult not just making films but releasing them too, as bringing people to the theatres will be tricky. Luckily, my film had a theatrical release as it was out in late February though business was impacted like it happened with all the films releasing at that time.” His last release ‘Guns of Banaras’ was completely shot in Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh and will see an OTT release soon.These days, writing is taking up most of his time. “Yes, my synopsis is done and scripting is in full swing. Soon, this will be done and then we will start casting. Once we get all fixed with an OTT platform then all will be on a roll. But seeing the current scenario I think not before this year-end will we be able to start the project.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/sometimes-it-s-good-to-have-a-quiet-birthday/story-g8op9jalPI3OkRIcWvv4sL.html
27-05-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 recovery rate pegged at 42%, over 64k cured of coronavirus: Health Ministry||A total of 1,51,767 Covid-19 cases have been reported from the country in which 64,426 persons have been cured with the recovery rate being pegged at 42.4%, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said on Wednesday.The fatality rate is 2.86% whereas the world average is 6.36%, the Ministry said. The Ministry said it utilised the lockdown period for creating health infrastructure required for COVID-19 management. Also Read: India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 150,000-mark, death toll at 4,337“There are now 930 dedicated COVID hospitals with 1,58,747 isolation beds, 20,355 ICU beds and 69,076 oxygen-supported beds available in the country,” said the Ministry. It also said that a total of 2,362 dedicated COVID health centres with 1,32,593 Isolation beds; 10,903 ICU beds and 45,562 oxygen-supported beds have been operationalised. “There are at least 10,341 quarantine centres and 7,195 COVID care centres with 6,52,830 beds available to combat COVID-19 in the country,” said the Ministry. Click here for complete coverage on coronavirusAccording to the Health Ministry, the Centre also provided 113.58 lakh N95 masks and 89.84 lakh Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) to the States, UTs and Central institutions.The testing capacity has increased in the country through 435 government laboratories and 189 private labs (total 624 labs). Cumulatively, 32,42,160 samples have been tested so far for COVID-19, whereas 1,16,041 samples were tested in 24 hours, said the Ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-pegged-at-42-over-64k-cured-of-coronavirus-health-ministry/story-W78uFYTrXc5wWakGaqFI4K.html
27-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan destroys one-third of world’s largest mangrove delta, tiger habitat||Around one-third of the world’s mangrove delta – the Sunderban --- has been damaged by Cyclone Amphan, according to a preliminary assessment of the West Bengal forest department. However, there is no confirmation of deaths of tigers or other animals in the delta, officials said. “Around 1500 sq km of forest area has suffered massive damage in the cyclone. The nylon net fencing that was set up to prevent tigers from straying into villages has also been damaged. There are no reports of any animals killed so far in the storm,” said Ravi Kant Sinha, chief wildlife warden of West Bengal. The Sunderban delta comprises 102 islands of which 54 have human settlements while the rest have forests. It has around 4200 sq km of forests crisscrossed by rivers and creeks. This is the only mangrove in the world where tigers live. There are around 100 tigers in the Indian part of the Sunderban. “We have surveyed almost 70% of the forest area using mechanized boats. Two drones were also used to assess the damage. Extensive areas of mangrove forests have been damaged. But we haven’t found any carcasses of animals yet. We didn’t even see birds circling above any particular area of the forest which could have hinted that there could be a carcass,” said S Kulandivel, joint director of Sunderban Biosphere Reserve.Located at the southern tip of Bengal at the mouth of the sea, the dense mangrove is known to protect human settlements including the city of Kolkata, acting as a shield against cyclones.“The mangroves do not just help to reduce the wind speed drastically when the storm moves through the delta but even helps to break the waves and the storm surge triggered,” Sugata Hazra, professor at School of Oceanographic Studies at Jadavpur University said.It had saved Kolkata from the wrath of Cyclone Aila in 2009 and from Cyclone Bulbul in 2019. But this time the mangrove forest has suffered the most, a forest department official, said after preliminary stock taking. A detailed survey is still going on, he said.Between 2017 and 2019 the delta had already lost nearly two percent mangrove cover, according to the state of forest report 2019. The FSI report also said that since 2011 the very dense mangrove cover, which comprise pristine and thick mangrove forests, has come down from 1038 sq km to 996 sq km in 2019.“As incidents of tiger straying was a major problem in the Sunderbans, nylon net fencing has been put up along the forest boundary surrounding the fringe villages. But out of the 211 km of fencing around 100 has been ripped apart by the storm,” said Sinha.The Forest Department has already repaired the fencing along 60 km which was in ‘most trouble-some’ areas such as Kultali, Ajmalmari, Uttar Gurguria and Dakshin Gurguria. These areas had witnessed the maximum cases of tigers straying in the past.Even though there have been no reports of animal deaths after the storm and no carcasses have been found, former top forest officials have warned that tiger straying could increase in the coming months.“After Cyclone Aila wild boars could not be found as they could not bear the 4-6 hours of water inundation and died and were swept away. We could not find their carcass. Large animals like tiger and deer survived. But due to shortage of pray (as wild boars were small in number) tiger straying (human- tiger conflict) started. It was a nightmare for forest staff and villagers. I fear that,” PK Vyas, former chief wildlife warden of West Bengal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-destroys-one-third-of-world-s-largest-mangrove-delta-tiger-habitat/story-PaUpb9SC51TeOB51W2jkFK.html
27-05-2020||India||Oil India reports blow out at well in Assam, at least 25 families evacuated||Oil India Limited (OIL) authorities in Assam’s Tinsukia district shifted at least 25 families to safety after a natural gas producing well reported a blowout on Wednesday morning.An OIL press statement said that blowout occurred at the Baghjan-5 well at 10.30am. A blowout is the uncontrolled release of crude oil or gas from a well when pressure control systems fail.The well suddenly became very active while the operation was on, the statement added.“As a consequence, the ongoing operations had to be immediately suspended and the well started releasing natural gas in an uncontrolled manner. All efforts have been made to mobilise men and equipment at the site so that the well can be brought under control,” it said.The blowout happened while work was underway to produce gas from a new oil and gas-bearing reservoir at a depth of 3,729 metres.Earlier, the well was producing around one lakh standard cubic metre per day (SCMD) of gas from a depth of 3,870 metres.“All arrangements are being made now to bring the well under control. Water spraying and all adequate safety measures including installing a blow out preventer (BOP) is being done,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oil-india-reports-blow-out-at-well-in-assam-at-least-25-families-evacuated/story-HMDlC4eDw0D2mjLzFG471O.html
27-05-2020||India||Chandrababu Naidu’s Mahanadu conclave attended by 25,000, address via Zoom||Amid restrictions and a nationwide lockdown in place, the Telugu Desam Party began its two-day conclave – Mahanadu – on digital platform Zoom on Wednesday. The party claims the event was attended by 25,000 delegates.Held once every two years to elect the party president and other committees, it also deliberates upon various issues ranging from national to state affairs.Chandrababu Naidu addressed those delegates through Zoom webinar application. The Mahanadu is expected to adopt 13 resolutions during the two-day conclave.Technology and innovation, Naidu said, would provide solutions to any problem faced by the human society. He added, if the TDP was able to overcome limitations of social distancing during Covid-19 mandated lockdown, it was due to the early steps that the party took towards digital socialisation. “Digital Mahanadu 2020 is also a part of this initiative,” he said.Recounting that earlier Mahanadu conclaves used to be held in presence of thousands of activists and followers, the TDP chief said because of restrictions due to lockdown, he chose to hold an online conclave. “The TDP has emerged as the first political party to hold India’s first digital political conclave,” said Naidu.Stating that the TDP had to go through a very tough time in the last one year, Naidu said the party was able to fight back all the setbacks with the self-confidence of the party cadre. “In an unprecedented manner, the YCRCP government had targeted the TDP leaders and cadre, attacked their financial roots, crippled their business activities and even engineered physical attacks. It was a painful year with hundreds of TDP activists being implicated in false cases and put in jail for no fault of theirs,” he said.Launching a blistering attack on chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy and his party, he said the one-year rule of Jagan had wrecked all sections of the people: politically, socially and financially. The TDP chief alleged that CM Jagan has pushed the state economy into an irrecoverable, bankrupt situation.The TDP chief alleged that the Jagan government has not spent a single rupee on irrigation projects or launched a new one. Even the lifeline project of Polavaram, he added, has come to a halt and was now stuck in legal hurdles in the court.Naidu further alleged that Jagan ‘s policies led to flight of investments and industries from the state, eventually causing huge loss of job opportunities to workers, youth and other sections. While several industries like Kia Motors, Hero Motors, Asian Paints and others had come to India during the TDP regime, proposed Adani Data Centre, Reliance Electronics and other industries had been shelved during the Jagan regime, he alleged.By stopping works worth thousands of crores of rupees in Amaravati Capital City, the Jagan government had caused serious harm to farmers who sacrificed their lands, said the leader, who was also the former CM of the state.“While the farmers were still holding their protests braving hot summer and coronavirus lockdown, the chief minister was deriving sadistic pleasure,” he alleged.The TDP wondered whether Jagan had asked for ‘one chance’ from the people to destroy the state in every way possible. He deplored that Jagan had imposed an additional burden of Rs 50,000 crore on the people in the form of new taxes and hike in power tariff and liquor prices.Naidu stressed the need for both Andhra Pradesh and Telangana to sort out their differences over Krishna water sharing.Stressing the need for using latest technology, innovation and digital socialisation, Naidu called upon the TDP cadres and people of Andhra to fight back anti-development policies of the state government.Several resolutions on various subjects like coronavirus pandemic, increase of power tariff and protection of temple properties were passed through voice vote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chandrababu-naidu-s-mahanadu-conclave-attended-by-25-000-address-via-zoom/story-YNbu1hTyNre9K1zDCR0CTJ.html
27-05-2020||India||Karnataka to name new flyover after Savarkar, opposition parties rage||The decision of the B S Yediyurappa-led BJP government in Karnataka to name a new flyover in Yelhanka, Bangalore in honour of V D Savarkar has been opposed by the two chief opposition parties in the state-- Congress and Janata Dal (Secular). The newly-built flyover will be inaugurated by Chief Minister Yediyurappa on Thursday, which is the 137th birth anniversary of Veer Savarkar.Senior Congress leader and leader of opposition in the Assembly, Siddaramaiah questioned the state government’s move to name the flyover in honour of Savarkar saying, “This is an insult to the freedom fighters of the state. The government should immediately drop this idea and this should be named in the honour of a freedom fighter from the state. This incident only shows that puppet masters behind the scenes are controlling the government rather than an elected government taking decisions. If the government genuinely wants the cooperation of opposition parties, it should drop such anti-people moves.”Former chief minister and JDS leader H D Kumaraswamy also opposed the state government’s move to name the flyover in Savarkar’s name. “There are several freedom fighters from the state who fought for our independence. There are several who contributed to the state’s development even after independence. They could have named the flyover in the honour of any one of them? Do other states honour our freedom fighters? I request the government to reverse its current decision.”However, BJP spokesperson S Prakash said that the state had taken the decision after much consideration. Accusing the Congress of never honouring anybody outside the Nehru-Gandhi family he said, “Why Indira canteens? Why Rajiv Gandhi hospital? Savarkar is a giant amongst our freedom fighters. It is only a token of respect for such a great soul who sacrificed for the country.”The flyover has been built at an estimated cost of Rs 34 crore and measures about 400 metres in length. State government officials said that Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) under which the flyover comes has also passed a resolution approving the naming of the flyover in honour of Savarkar. They said the CM will go ahead in inaugurating the same in spite of the protests by opposition parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-to-name-new-flyover-after-savarkar-opposition-parties-rage/story-Zp1t8AdHWOpEv9lekwEbVJ.html
27-05-2020||India||Uttarakhand minister Satpal Maharaj’s residence put under quarantine||The private residence of Uttarakhand tourism minister Satpal Maharaj has been put under quarantine following the visit of some people from Delhi, officials have saidThe Dehradun district administration put a notice on the minster’s house which stated that “members of the house are advised to stay inside and not meet people outside from May 20 to June 3.”Confirming the development, Maharaj said, “The quarantine notice was put by the administration after a few of my guests came a few days ago. I am happy that the officials concerned noticed that and put the notice which is for everyone’s safety only.”However, he clarified that the quarantine notice is for the guest house and office area of his residence which is ‘separate from the premises where he and his family live.’“The area which has been quarantined has its entrance from 1/1 Circular Road while the entrance to my residence is from 13 Municipal Road in Dehradun. The premises are different with separate entrances and exits. It’s nothing to be worried about for me and my family who are cautious but completely fine,” said Maharaj. The minister also added that following the development, he has closed the office at his private residence and moved it to a new location.“I have now opened my office in the Subhash Road area of the city with all the necessary precautions amid the pandemic,” he said.The Dehradun district administration said that it had put the notice as per the norms in the ongoing lockdown. Asheesh Srivastava, district magistrate Dehradun said, “We have put the guest house and office at his residence in quarantine which is towards the Circular Road area. The part where the minister lives is towards the Municipal Road, which has not been put under quarantine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-minister-satpal-maharaj-s-residence-put-under-quarantine/story-m7CTZoS1CRSJ1hYFoTYvVP.html
27-05-2020||India||Donald Trump offers to mediate ‘raging’ India-China border dispute||US President Donald Trump on Wednesday waded into the tense border standoff between India and China, saying he was “ready, willing and able to mediate” between the two sides.Trump, who has in the past repeatedly offered to mediate between India and Pakistan on the issue of Kashmir and been rebuffed, made the latest offer through a tweet. He also said he had informed India and China of his offer.“We have informed both India and China that the United States is ready, willing and able to mediate or arbitrate their now raging border dispute. Thank you!” he tweeted. We have informed both India and China that the United States is ready, willing and able to mediate or arbitrate their now raging border dispute. Thank you!Also Watch | ‘On the brink of a new cold war’: China on ties with US after Covid outbreak There was no immediate response from Indian officials. It also could not be confirmed whether Trump had formally conveyed the offer to the Indian side.Thousands of Indian and Chinese troops are locked in eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), particularly in Ladakh sector following violent clashes early this month that left soldiers on both sides injured.The Indian government made it clear yesterday that it would not allow any change in the status quo on the LAC and that it would respond to China’s actions with “strength and restraint”.Also read | In huge setback to PM Oli, Nepal’s new political map hits a roadblockTrump’s remarks came a week after his administration’s outgoing pointperson for South Asia, Alice Wells, strongly backed the Indian position in the border row and said such disputes are a “reminder of the threat posed by China”.Wells, the outgoing head of the state department’s South and Central Asia bureau, said like-minded nations such as the US, India, Australia and Asean states have rallied together in the face of China’s “provocations and disturbing behaviour”.She had said: “The flare-ups on the border, I think, are a reminder that Chinese aggression is not always just rhetorical. And so whether it’s in the South China Sea or whether it’s along the border with India, we continue to see provocations and disturbing behaviour by China that raises questions about how China seeks to use its growing power.”She added, “What we want to see is an international system that provides benefit to everyone and not a system in which there is suzerainty to China. And so I think in this instance, the border disputes are a reminder of the threat posed by China.”China’s foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian had dismissed Wells’ remarks as “just nonsense” and reiterated the allegation that Indian troops had trespassed across the LAC. India should work with China and “refrain from unilateral actions” that complicate the situation, he had said.India has dismissed allegations that its troops trespassed across the LAC and instead accused Chinese troops of hindering activities on the Indian side of the LAC.Also read | PM Modi’s ‘Doklam team’ back in action to stand up to China in Ladakh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/donald-trump-offers-to-mediate-raging-india-china-border-dispute/story-s1cZGvwkF7pYtiZ0QLcxbP.html
27-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ‘China’s way to create distraction’, says Union minister on LAC tension in Ladakh and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘China’s way to create distraction’: Union minister on LAC tension in LadakhUnion minister VK Singh has said that China is trying to distract the world’s attention by increasing activity on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Read more.Rahul Gandhi speaks with Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray, assures supportA day after his comment led to speculations that all was not well within Maharashtra’s ruling coalition, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi spoke with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray over the phone on Wednesday morning. Read more. Your career will be over: Curtly Ambrose recalls when he threatened to ‘knock out’ Steve WaughWest Indies legend Sir Curtly Ambrose recalled the time when he got into a heated argument with former Australia captain Steve Waugh during a Test match in Trinidad in 1995. Ambrose, who picked up 405 wickets in 98 Tests, was known for his quiet demeanour on the pitch. Read more. Virat Kohli aces 180-degree landings in first attempt, Arjun Kapoor hilariously trolls him. Watch videoCricketer Virat Kohli shared a new workout video on his Instagram account, in which he is seen nailing 180-degree landings in his very first attempt. “My first shot at 180 landings. Top exercise,” he captioned the clip, which has already garnered more than 4 million views. Read more. iPhone 11 beats iPhone XR to become the most popular smartphone globallyApple’s iPhone 11 turned out to be the most popular smartphone model in Q1, 2020 based on data by Omdia. iPhone XR which had been the most popular iPhone so far has now passed the throne to iPhone 11. Read more. Menstrual Hygiene Day 2020: To attain menstrual health, we require community involvementMenstruation is a normal biological process, which is the key in maintaining the reproductive well being of a woman.Myths and taboos in the society have resulted in a high level of secrecy about the basic menstruation facts -- leading to shame and exclusion for women and girls. Read more. Alligators engage in fight on golf course, fascinating video captured. Don’t forget to turn the sound onA video of two alligators engaged in an epic fight is fascinating, intriguing, and scary – all in equal parts. Captured at the Hilton Head Lakes golf course in Hardeeville, South Carolina, the video of these unwanted guests was shared on Facebook and it has now left people with varied thoughts. Read more. TISS takes Masters programme process onlineThe Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai, has restructured its admission process for Masters programmes doing away with any physical visits by candidates to the campus. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-china-s-way-to-create-distraction-says-union-minister-on-lac-tension-in-ladakh-and-all-the-latest-news/story-uWumOI7hudx2rdKrSDAjvJ.html
27-05-2020||India||4 cops injured in clash with migrants at quarantine centre in Bihar’s Nalanda||The Station House Officer (SHO) of Bind police station in Bihar’s Nalanda and three other personnel were injured in a clash between police and the inmates of a quarantine centre at Kathrahi late on Tuesday evening, an officer said. “Four policemen, including the SHO Rakesh Kumar, were attacked by quarantined people who were demanding better quality food. They damaged three vehicles including one belonging to the Block Development Officer (BDO). Some of the inmates snatched a police rifle and cartridge, which was later recovered,” a senior police officer said.Confirming the incident, Nalanda Superintendent of Police Nilesh Kumar said that the police team led by BDO Suraj Kumar reached the quarantine centre after getting information about the ruckus created by some migrant workers over the food being served to them. When the team arrived, people attacked them with bamboo sticks and pelted stones at them.At least 121 people are staying at the quarantine centre at Gurukul Vidyalaya and they demanded ‘puri’ instead of roti in their meal. Following the ruckus, hundreds people from adjoining villages assembled there and provoked them, according to SP Nilesh Kumar. The SP said that reinforcements reached the spot, brought the situation under control and dispersed the mob. The injured cops were taken to the primary health centre. A case was registered against unidentified people and the police have started investigation, he added.According to Nalanda Police, the incident at Kathrahi involving irate migrants is not an isolated one. There are reports of over dozen such incidents where angry migrant workers in quarantine centres created ruckus, staged protests, blocked road and even turned violent at some places.Upset over poor facilities at the quarantine centres in government-run school buildings, panchayat buildings etc, thousands of migrant workers have taken to protesting in over two dozen districts in Bihar over the past few days.Recently, 88 migrant workers at a quarantine centre in Dwarka Amrit Asharfi High School in Shambhuganj block of Banka district protested at the alleged poor quality of food being provided to them. The police resorted to lathi-charge to control them. In the ensuing melee, a young migrant worker fractured his hand while some others sustained minor injuries.Concerned at the rising Covid-19 cases in the state, the Bihar government last week announced that migrants labourers returning from seven states will be lodged in quarantine camps.According to the order by Disaster Management Department, Government of Bihar, migrant labourers coming to Bihar from Surat, Ahmedabad in Gujarat; Mumbai, Pune in Maharashtra; Delhi; Ghaziabad, Faridabad, Noida in Uttar Pradesh; Kolkata, West Bengal; Gurugram in Haryana and Bengaluru, Karnataka will be kept in quarantine camps||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-cops-injured-in-clash-with-migrants-at-quarantine-centre-in-bihar-s-nalanda/story-0CcUVdtaBvmC7nyQG8SUMK.html
27-05-2020||India||BJP launches 2021 assembly poll campaign in Bengal, calls it ‘Aar Noi Mamata’||Coinciding with the Mamata Banerjee government in Bengal completing nine years in power, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the principal opposition party in the state, launched a campaign on Wednesday, called ‘Aar Noi Mamata’, urging people to topple the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government in the state in the 2021 Assembly elections.The high-voltage campaign, which literally means ‘no more Mamata’ was launched at a time when large parts of south Bengal is yet to return to normalcy following the devastation caused by Cyclone Amphan. The Mamata Banerjee government is facing a three-fold challenge – combating the outbreak of Covid-19, dealing with the huge influx of migrant workers returning to the state and restoring normal life and infrastructure in the cyclone-hit areas.The party on Wednesday released a 57-second video clip calling for the removal of the TMC regime and launched a Twitter hashtag named #AarNoiMamata. BJP’s national general secretary and Bengal in-charge Kailash Vijayvargiya posted on Twitter on Wednesday, using the hashtag #AarNoiMamata, that the Mamata Banerjee government was not worthy of any congratulations for completing nine years in power. “Nine years of old wine in new bottle, nine years of communist continuity sold as change, nine years of oppressive rule after promising liberation, nine years of breaking people’s trust and mandate. This is the Mamata government for you. Bengal cries for change,” Vijayvargiya tweeted.The party’s national executive member Mukul Roy tweeted, “Mamata has failed her own people of West Bengal. Not to forget she is also the home minister and the health minister. Six days over and metro city Kolkata is on the streets protesting for basics.”Union minister Debasree Chowdhury too accused the government of “failing on all fronts”, and the party’s state women’s wing chief and Hooghly MP Locket Chatterjee wrote, “9 years of Mamata misrule added to 34 years of CPM misrule. Come 2021, we need BJP’s govt in West Bengal to fulfill the aspirations of common people.”BJP state unit’s IT cell in-charge Ujjwal Pareek wrote on Twitter, “Mamata report card: Cyclone Amphan – fail, Covid-19 – fail, migrant labourers – fail, ration for poor – fail, women’s security – fail, infiltration – fail… the list is long … #AarNoiMamata.”BJP is likely to release a “charge-sheet” against the Mamata Banerjee administration on Wednesday evening.Trinamool Congress said the BJP was “stooping too low.”“This is unbelievable how they are indulging in political campaigns at the hour of the state’s great crisis. It’s time to rebuild the state. Bengal has never faced such a natural calamity. Everyone should fight such disasters by being united. There is a lot of time left to launch political campaigns,” said TMC secretary-general and state education minister Partha Chatterjee.Congress’ Lok Sabha leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, who is an MP from Berhampore in Bengal, and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) have also accused the Mamata Banerjee government of lacking in preparedness to tackle Covid-19 and Cyclone Amphan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-launches-2021-assembly-poll-campaign-in-bengal-calls-it-aar-noi-mamata/story-3O0nUA0PEzik6JLOh6MmeJ.html
27-05-2020||India||Yes Bank case: Kapil, Dheeraj Wadhawan sent to judicial custody till June 11||The special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Wednesday remanded Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL) promoters Dheeraj Wadhawan and his brother Kapil to judicial custody till June 11.Earlier, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) authorities had arrested the two brothers on May 14. The judicial custody was extended till June 11 after their 14-day judicial custody ended on Wednesday.The Wadhawans, who have been arrested by ED on charges of money laundering, will be lodged in one of the jails in Mumbai, the ED authorities said. ED had initiated proceedings against the duo based on a first information report (FIR) filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on March 7 against Yes Bank co-promoter Rana Kapoor and the Wadhawans.It is alleged that between April and June 2018, Yes Bank invested Rs 3,700 crore in short-term, non-convertible debentures of DHFL and Kapoor received Rs 600 crore as kickbacks from the finance firm in the form of loan advanced to two companies -- DOIT Urban Ventures (India) Private Limited and Morgan Credits Private Limited. While Kapoor’s three daughters hold 100℅ stakes in DOIT, Morgan Credits is controlled by his wife.The Wadhawans, however, maintained that these transactions were entered into the regular course of business. They sought pre-arrest bail, claiming that there was no fraudulent misrepresentation and no wrongful loss was caused to the bank in these transactions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yes-bank-case-kapil-dheeraj-wadhawan-sent-to-judicial-custody-till-june-11/story-PIHVIq7VSBckjzjuWL3vOP.html
27-05-2020||India||ASI unearths 9th century Shiv Linga during restoration of temple complex in Vietnam||A Shiv Linga or representation of the Hindu deity Shiva dating back to the 9th century has been unearthed at Cham temple complex in Vietnam during restoration work by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI).External affairs minister S Jaishankar announced the find on Twitter on Wednesday, saying the development underscored the “civilisational connect” between the two countries and was also a “great cultural example of India’s development partnership”.“Reaffirming a civilisational connect. Monolithic sandstone Shiv Linga of 9th c CE is latest find in ongoing conservation project. Applaud @ASIGoI team for their work at Cham Temple Complex, My Son, #Vietnam. Warmly recall my visit there in 2011.Cham temple complex, part of the UNESCO world heritage site of My Son in Quang Nam province of Vietnam, was built in the 9th century AD during the reign of King Indravarman II, who was also responsible for the famous Dong Duong Buddhist monastery in the same region.A four-member team from ASI is currently engaged in the fourth season of restoration and conservation work at My Son. This year’s work schedule runs from January to June. Over the past three seasons, ASI has restored temples in two different groups at the complex, and the team is now working on a third group of temples.“During the current restoration work at the temples, the ASI team found the Shiv Linga. It is a monolithic structure with decorative patterns of very exquisite cultural value,” said an official who declined to be named. “Before this, six other Shiv Lingas were found in the My Son temple complex. But the latest find is believed to be the most magnificent,” the official added.French experts discovered the temple complex in a dilapidated condition in 1903-04. During excavations at that time, French archaeologists had described the presence of a Shiv Linga in the group of temples that is currently being renovated. However, due to limited excavation capabilities in those days, this Shiv Linga could not be recovered. Subsequently, political disturbances and wars in Vietnam led to destruction of the temple complex.The external affairs ministry created a new Development Partnership Division (DPA-IV) in January to coordinate and undertake culture and heritage conservation projects abroad, including identification, planning and implementation of schemes in consultation with technical agencies.The new division will also act as a repository of all such projects being undertaken by India abroad, and be instrumental in dissemination of information of projects and cooperation in culture and heritage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asi-unearths-9th-century-shiv-linga-during-restoration-of-temple-complex-in-vietnam/story-rSzk6fCRSPvejJ6PyZM4AP.html
27-05-2020||India||Tourists missing, Kerala’s Munnar has elephants strolling the streets||With a nationwide lockdown in place, the only visitors Kerala’s misty getaway Munnar gets these days is a herd of wild elephants.Almost every day, these pachyderms can be seen roaming on the streets like stray cattle. Local residents complain that these jumbos have vandalised shops. Humans, say locals, have not been attacked till date.Watch | Tourists missing, Kerala’s Munnar has elephants strolling the streets A worried forest department has decided to depute a couple of forest wardens in the town.“It is free run for jumbos in Munnar these days. Earlier they used to come to estates but now with movement of people and vehicles restricted, they enter the town easily. They raided at least five vegetable shops in the last three days,” said senior journalist MJ Babu, who hails from the area. He said ideal conditions helped the jumbos to roam around freely and local residents have named some of the frequent visitors Padayappa, Kutti Komban, Ganesan, among others.Angry residents are now planning an agitation to scare away these pachyderms. “With no tourists around, we are finding it difficult to piece together our lives. Raiding jumbos have made our life more miserable. What is disturbing is that their numbers are on the rise these days,” said TK Shaji, a local shopkeeper.Two days ago, Youth Congress activists held a dharna in front of the forest warden’s office demanding steps to chase away animals. “We have deployed six forest wardens in Munnar and surrounding areas. They will track the movement of jumbos and chase them away using crackers and high-power lights,” said a senior forest officer of the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tourists-missing-kerala-s-munnar-has-elephants-strolling-the-streets/story-AryBGXYBsgQNARsCPBeKON.html
27-05-2020||India||Darbha valley Maoist attack: Chhattisgarh police registers fresh case||Raipur: A case has been registered in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma district’s Darbha Valley ambush on Congress leaders, in which 27 people, including lawmaker Mahendra Karma, was killed on May 25, 2013, allegedly by outlawed Communist Party of India (Maoist) members.Jitendra Mudliyar, son of slain Congress leader Uday Mudliyar, filed a complaint and the case was registered on Tuesday under Section 302 (murder) and Section 120(B) (criminal conspiracy) of the India Penal Code (IPC), the police said.“We’ve registered a case against unknown persons on Tuesday. An investigation will be carried out,” said Sunderaj P, inspector-general of police (IGP), Bastar.National Investigating Agency (NIA) is probing the case since 2013, and a charge sheet has also been submitted in an NIA Special Court. In November 2019, NIA nabbed Maoist commander Sumitra Punem, who was allegedly involved in the ambush, and 26 more rebels are still wanted in the case.Deepak Jha, superintendent of police (SP), Bastar, said Mudliyar has submitted a complaint. He has alleged that the 2013 killings were a criminal conspiracy and the case should be reinvestigated by another agency other than NIA in a bid to know the truth, the SP added.“We’re waiting for NIA’s closure report. The agency didn’t record any statement from the victims’ family members. We’re suspicious of the conspiracy theory. The case needs to be reinvestigated. We’ve come to know through an RTI (Right to Information) petition that police were informed about the movement of the Maoist rebels on the day the incident occurred on May 25, 2013,” Mudliyar stated in his complaint.According to an NIA charge sheet filed in 2014, the conspiracy of the ambush was hatched in a Maoist meeting held in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district in February 2013.NIA had charge-sheeted senior Maoist commanders, including Surender, who headed the Darbha division committee; along with Barse Sukka, Hapka Manoj, Tippiri Tirupati, Kishore Korram and Modiyam Ramesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/darbha-valley-maoist-attack-chhattisgarh-police-registers-case/story-dZAb2y6gBlK7nZ6fG6IvmN.html
27-05-2020||India||Heatwave likely to continue during next 24 hours: IMD||The ongoing heatwave over several parts of north and central India is likely to continue during the next 24 hours, the India Meteorological Department said on Wednesday, even as the southwest monsoon made further advancement in parts of Bay of Bengal. North and central India have been reeling under a severe heatwave and temperatures have soared over 47 degrees Celsius at a few places. “Due to the prevailing dry north-westerly winds over plains of northwest India, central India and the adjoining interior parts of eastern India, the present heatwave conditions are very likely to continue during next 24 hours,” the IMD said. Heatwave conditions at many places with severe heatwave in isolated pockets are very likely over Vidarbha, west Rajasthan, the IMD said. Heatwave conditions are also likely in some pockets over Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and east Rajasthan, and in isolated pockets over Punjab, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Saurashtra and Kutch, central Maharashtra and Marathwada, Telangana and north interior Karnataka during the next 24 hours, the IMD added. A western disturbance is likely to give some relief on May 29 and 30. During this period, parts of north India are likely to witness dust storms and thunderstorms. Western disturbance is a cyclonic circulation which originates in the Mediterranean Sea. Traversing central Asia, it brings rains to the hills and plains when it comes in contact with the Himalayas. On the progress of the southwest monsoon, the national weather forecasting centre of the IMD said it has further advanced into some more parts of south Bay of Bengal, most parts of Andaman Sea and Andaman and Nicobar Islands.  “Conditions are becoming favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon into some parts of Maldives-Comorin area and adjoining southeast Arabian Sea, remaining parts of Andaman Sea and some more parts of south and central Bay of Bengal during next 48 hours,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heatwave-likely-to-continue-during-next-24-hours-imd/story-C8wy3yPL4kO3yh2ltfahnI.html
27-05-2020||India||BJP not trying to topple government in Maharashtra: Ravi Shankar Prasad||Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Wednesday dismissed allegations that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is trying to topple the Maharashtra government as “scurrilous”.Accusing the Congress of running away from taking responsibility for the Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra, which tops the list of states with the maximum number of infections and deaths, Prasad said the allies in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government need to put their house in order.“They (the state government) need to take firm steps to control the situation in Maharashtra. Mumbai has become a hot spot in the world,” Prasad told journalists during an online news briefing.The Congress-NCP-Shiv Sena government in Maharashtra has accused the BJP of trying to topple it, even as BJP leaders pushed for the state to be brought under President’s Rule.Reacting to the MVA’s allegation and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s comments that his party only supports the government and is not a key player, Prasad said, “Maybe things are not under the control of the chief minister and there are issues within the coalition in the state.”A war of words has erupted between the state government and the railway ministry on requisitioning trains for migrant workers, and Prasad defended his Cabinet colleague, railway minister Piyush Goyal. He said Goyal has offered trains, but the buck stops with the Uddhav Thackeray government.Maharashtra is staring at political upheaval even as it grapples to contain the spread of the Coronavirus.On Tuesday, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said the state government will fall on its own because of internal differences between allies. Senior BJP MP Narayan Rane met Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and demanded President’s Rule in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-not-trying-to-topple-government-in-maharashtra-prasad/story-byJNWVbJCeZ7yYaG6kHiKL.html
27-05-2020||India||Flying to Kolkata tomorrow? Here’s what you need to know||The domestic flight services will resume in West Bengal on Thursday, two days after air travel was thrown open in the rest of the country.The Bengal government had asked the Centre to not resume the flight service as the state has been ravaged by Cyclone Amphan. On Tuesday, Home Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said the state government no longer had the infrastructure to support lakhs of returning migrant workers.Ahead of the resumption of services, the West Bengal government has said that the Kolkata and Bagdogra airports in the state will handle only 20 flights each per day.The state government on Tuesday released fresh guideline for domestic air travel keeping in mind the safety of passengers during the coronavirus pandemic. Here’s what you need to follow if you are planning to travel to West Bengal:• All passengers are required to submit “filled up self-declaration form” at the time of arrival to the state health officials.• All passengers will have to undergo health screening at the point of departure and only “asymptomatic” passengers shall be allowed to board the plane.• On arrival, health screening shall also be done for all the passengers.• The government further said in the guideline that all samples will be collected for coronavirus test from all symptomatic passengers.• The guideline said asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to go with the advice that they shall self monitor their health for 14 days. In case they develop any symptoms, they shall inform the local medical officer or state call centre at 1800 313 444 222/033-23412600,2357 3636/1083/1085 for medical interventions.• Those with moderate or severe symptoms will be admitted to the dedicated Covid-19 health facility and managed accordingly. Those with mild symptoms will be asked to go for home or institutional isolation.• Further, medical interventions will be taken as per the test result.• Adequate publicity for maintenance of social distancing norms and health hygiene protocol should be done at the airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flying-to-kolkata-tomorrow-here-s-what-you-need-to-know/story-s5KDS02QUJa7NM53pdEfyM.html
27-05-2020||India||‘Nobody can stare down Modi’s India’: RS Prasad on border standoff with China||Amid the standoff between Indian and Chinese troops at the Ladakh border, the ruling BJP on Wednesday asserted that no country can stare down India under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“Narendra Modi ke Bharat ko koi aankh nahi dikha sakta (No country can stare down PM Modi’s India),” BJP leader and Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said in Hindi during a press conference.He was asked about India’s standoff with China and also differences with Nepal.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had asked the Modi government on Tuesday to be transparent about the border situation with China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nobody-can-stare-down-modi-s-india-rs-prasad-on-border-standoff-with-china/story-8KUnrscHcmkLXchpn1R0yO.html
27-05-2020||India||Rajasthan high court grants bail to second accused in Rakbar lynching case||The Rajasthan high court on Tuesday granted bail to the second accused in the 2018 Rakbar Khan lynching case in Alwar, the special public prosecutor for lynching cases in the state said Wednesday.There are four accused in the case; the bail application of the remaining two is likely to be heard by the court on Friday. The trial in the case will resume in Alwar court on June 1.Rakbar Khan, 28, of Kol village in Haryana’s Nuh district was allegedly beaten by local villagers in Lalavandi village of Rajasthan’s Alwar district on July 21, 2018, while he and another man named Aslam Khan were taking two cows bought from Ladpura village. The villagers suspected them to be cow smugglers. Rakbar was declared dead when taken to government hospital by police. Aslam Khan managed to escape.Police arrested three people – Paramjit Singh and Dharmendra Yadav and Naresh Kumar – on charges of unlawful assembly, wrongful restraint, voluntarily causing hurt and murder the next day (July 22, 2018). The charge sheet against them was filed on September 7, 2018. The fourth accused, Vijay Moortikar, was arrested on August 22, 2019, and charges were framed against him on September 13, 2019.After facing flak for sloppy investigation into the Pehlu Khan lynching case that led to acquittal of all six accused, the Rajasthan government appointed Ashok Kumar Sharma as special public prosecutor for lynching cases in Alwar on the day the fourth accused was arrested.The case against the four accused is under trial in an Alwar court. The first accused Paramjit Singh got bail from the high court on February 26 this year. Naresh Kumar is the second accused to get bail.“The remaining two accused have also filed bail application in the high court. The date of hearing is May 29,” he said.Sharma said the trial will resume on June 1. “The last hearing was on March 16. Due to the lockdown, the trial was put on hold and the next date of hearing is June 1,” he said.Sharma said so far 24 prosecution witnesses have recorded their statements. “Statements of 32 more witnesses are to be recorded,” he added. Rakbar’s counsel Kasim Khan said the new witnesses in the additional charge sheet may turn the case in his favour after the initial goof-up in police investigation. A four-member committee headed by the then additional director general of police (law and order) NRK Reddy had found lapses by police in handling the case. “We found that there was some error in judgment. There was a time lapse of three hours, and the incident could have been avoided if the police had responded more efficiently,” Reddy had told HT after the probe concluded.Assistant sub-inspector Mohan Singh was suspended, and three constables were transferred to the Alwar police lines after the probe report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-high-court-grants-bail-to-second-accused-in-rakbar-lynching-case/story-TqtiHf89nH9SEoDhBI583M.html
27-05-2020||India||‘China’s way to create distraction’: Union minister on LAC tension in Ladakh||Union minister VK Singh has said that China is trying to distract the world’s attention by increasing activity on the Line of Actual Control (LAC).“China is under scrutiny, the whole world is accusing them of spreading Covid-19. Many companies are shifting from China. It’s their way to create distraction. They’ve done it many times,” Singh said.China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has deployed two brigades along with border with India in the Ladakh sector. The aggressive posturing is designed to browbeat the government to stop building border infrastructure in the Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO) sector as it may threaten the Lhasa-Kashgar highway in Aksai Chin, senior government officials said.The scale of PLA deployment indicates that the move has the sanction of Beijing and not limited to local military commanders.India is constructing the Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldie road, which, once fully metalled, will give India a major advantage in terms of access and military mobilisation. A key part of this is the construction of a bridge at Daulat Beg Oldie,the last military post south of the Karakoram Pass, that China wants to stop.“The Darbuk-Shyok-DBO road will be completed this year and will raise the Indian capacity to rapidly deploy in the area. If the road project is blocked, the Indian Army will be forced to live off aerial supply lines and prepare for an arduous route linking Sansoma to Murgo to DBO through glaciated Saser La,” a national security planner in the government said.China has plans to stare down India into submission with its all-weather ally Pakistan deliberately initiating troop movement in neighbouring Gilgit-Baltistan region. But officials say that India cannot afford to budge from its position as this will amount to acceding to Xi Jinping’s cartographic expansion in the area through military muscle.The idea is to not allow any alteration of Indian territory and to face the Chinese challenge with “strength and restraint”, sources said. And that is why India has moved troops to counter Chinese forces stationed in the region, they added.The move to increase the troops in the border area is the result of a meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi, National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat.China, meanwhile, is facing the heat from many countries about the coronavirus outbreak, which began from Wuhan city in its Hubei province in December last year. The United States is leading the charges with President Donald Trump accusing Beijing of not disclosing full information about the virus. China has denied these allegations.At a World Health Assembly meeting earlier this month, more than 100 countries backed a resolution on finding the source of Covid-19. As the pressure mounted, China too agreed for a probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-way-to-create-distraction-union-minister-on-lac-tension-in-ladakh/story-gHKEDV7mGifPLrOguCZB3N.html
27-05-2020||India||Rajasthan to explore possibilities of aircraft MROs to boost economy||The Rajasthan government is exploring possibilities in new sectors such as maintenance, repair and overhauling (MRO) of aircraft to boost the state’s economy, officials said.The government has directed the industries department to study possibilities of MRO in the state following Chief Secretary D B Gupta’s meeting with various departments on Tuesday to discuss ways to boost the economy and provide employment.In wake of the Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package recently announced by the Centre to kickstart the economy amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Rajasthan is keen on new sectors such as MROs. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman recently said that steps will be taken to make the country a hub for MRO of aircraft.“Rajasthan has tremendous potential in this area. We have the required infrastructure with 19 state owned airstrips,” said Kesari Singh, Director Aviation department.A senior official, who participated in the meeting on anonymity, said the meeting focused on how economy and employment can be boosted and in relation to aviation, it was exploring MROs and privatisation of airports.He said Rajasthan has 32 air strips, 19 of which are state-owned, and rest is of air force and private. The state is coming out with a new aviation policy, which will cover MROs and aviation academy too. “Currently, there are around 4-5 MROs operational in India (Mumbai, Hyderabad and Bangalore) but still aircraft are going to other countries such as Dubai, Singapore, France etc. Growth in aviation sector necessitates the development of adequate MRO facilities for aircraft. The state can facilitate and incentivise the proposal for setting up new MRO centres,” he said.Around 60-70 flights operate daily from Rajasthan and if MRO is available then aircraft do not have to fly out and spend large sums. The MRO will not only generate employment but help in providing training to students of aeronautic engineering, he said. The official said the state government in recent years has worked on developing airstrips in the state and almost all are capable of handling big planes. “Jhalawar airport is bigger than Jaipur, and there big planes such as Airbus can land. Earlier, there were discussions to develop MRO at Jhalawar. On the same lines, now dialogues could be held with stakeholders such as Airbus and Boeing,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-to-explore-possibilities-of-aircraft-mros-to-boost-economy/story-JnawDtSRmN9IBAm13KgJuI.html
27-05-2020||India||Covid-19: BJP accuses Rahul Gandhi of falsehood||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday accused Congress leader Rahul Gandhi of trying to create “falsehoods” about the Centre’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic, and questioned why his views were being sidestepped by Congress-ruled states.Addressing the media via video conference, Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad also accused Gandhi of trying to weaken the country’s resolve to fight this challenge since the start of the Covid-19 outbreak. Prasad said Gandhi’s campaign was based on falsehood, deliberate twisting of facts and misinterpretation.He said anyone with better solutions should offer suggestions, and the government would be willing to look into them.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageOn Tuesday, Gandhi criticised the government’s decision to continue with the nationwide lockdown and said contrary to expectations, infections had spiked during this period.Prasad said, “Barring China, in the 15 counties which have been hit by the pandemic, the population is 142 crore and India has 137 crore, and so far we have 3.43 lakh deaths globally and in India 4,345. The recovery percentage is also high.” Criticising Gandhi for spreading “negativity, misinformation and fake news”, Prasad questioned why the Congress governments of Punjab and Rajasthan imposed lockdown at the earliest if such a measure isn’t a solution for Covid-19.“Maharashtra (where the Congress is a partner in the ruling alliance) extended it till May 31. Do your CMs not listen to you?” Prasad said.Attacking the Congress leader, Prasad said even as Congress president Sonia Gandhi said the credit for the “Bhilwara model” should go to Rahul Gandhi for his early warning, the sarpanch of the area had refuted the claim.“He said his constituency was recognised by the health ministry for tackling the pandemic, whereas it was declared as a hot spot. He’s asking for the Nyay scheme whereas the Modi government has announced a Rs 20 lakh crore package…he spoke about passing on benefits of the global oil price crash, but there was a VAT hike in Rajasthan and Punjab raised diesel prices,” Prasad added.To a question on Gandhi’s remarks that the government should come clean on the border standoff with China, and that there should be transparency on a border row with Nepal, Prasad said, “Narendra Modi ke Bharat ko koi ankh nahi dikha sakta (No one can browbeat India.)”On the Supreme Court’s observation that concentrated efforts are required to address the issues of migrant workers, he said the court had “issued notice and the government of India or the state government, as the case may be, will respond on what steps have been taken”.He added, “I can only respond in all humility that all governments are doing their best. These are very challenging times, if anyone has better solutions to offer suggestions, we are willing to look into that. But in the given situation the best possible efforts are being done and will continue to be done.”Referring to the spread of the Coronavirus in Gujarat, he said the Centre has already sent the director of AIIMS to guide the state in controlling the pandemic. “We don’t want to see the political colour of any state government, but the whole country has to work in unison. We have to overcome this crisis and I am confident that we shall overcome it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-bjp-accuses-rahul-gandhi-of-falsehood/story-1lcvrb2q8sSaBN75EgMilN.html
27-05-2020||India||In huge setback to PM Oli, Nepal’s new political map hits a roadblock||A constitutional amendment pushed hard by Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli to alter Nepal’s map has been put on hold, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times on Wednesday.The new political map placed Indian territories of Kalapani, Limpiyadhura and Lipulekh in Nepal and was seen as an effort by PM Oli to consolidate himself in the Nepal Communist Party government by whipping up ultra-nationalistic sentiments against India.But he wasn’t able to build consensus around the new map among Nepal parties, many of them saw through his effort to invoke gorkha nationalism for personal gains, political sources in New Delhi and Kathmandu said.PM Oli, who has been facing problems within the ruling Nepal Communist Party, is seen to have prompted loud protests in Kathmandu this month at a 80-km stretch of road opened by India from Uttarakhand’s Dharchula to Lipulekh. He responded to this ‘public sentiment’ a few weeks later with a new political map that depicted Lipulekh and Kalapani as part of Nepalese territory.The map, released within a day of the cabinet approval, showed Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as part of Byas rural municipality in Nepal’s Sudurpaschim province.Also watch | Rahul Gandhi demands transparency on faceoff with China & ties with Nepal Also read: Lipu Lekh: The past, present and future of the Nepal-India stand-off| AnalysisPM Oli had next raced to parliament to get its endorsement. But that plan appeared to have fallen apart after the main opposition party, Nepali Congress, made it clear that it could spell out its stand only after its Central Working Committee takes a decision.India had rejected the new political map, underlining that it includes parts of Indian territory.“This unilateral act is not based on historical facts and evidence…. It is contrary to the bilateral understanding to resolve the outstanding boundary issues through diplomatic dialogue. Such artificial enlargement of territorial claims will not be accepted by India,” the external affairs ministry in New Delhi had said.Army chief Gen Manoj Mukund Naravane had articulated the assessment in New Delhi when he suggested that the protests could be at the behest of “someone else” – a veiled reference to China.Also Read: Real targets of Nepal PM Oli’s new political map are in KathmanduThat remark had riled PM Oli so much that he asked Nepal’s Chief of Army General Purna Chandra Thapa to deliver a public rebuttal to General Naravane. But General Thapa is learnt to have declined, top sources said, pointing that this was a political issue and had nothing to do with the military. Like the Indian Army Chief Naranave who is an honorary General of the Nepal Army, Nepal’s Army Chief Thapa is the honorary General of the Indian Army.It is only after General Thapa declined to be dragged into the government’s politics that the Nepal defence minister Ishwor Pokhrel issued a statement criticising General Naravane.For PM Oli, Wednesday’s developments come as another setback. This is the second time in two months that he has had to move in reverse gear. Last month, PM Oli had to scrap two ordinances that he had cleared within five days of being notified.But the Oli government attempted to put up a brave face and claimed that he would be back with the constitution amendment bill within 10 days. It has only been deferred, not cancelled, PM Oli said on Wednesday..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-puts-on-hold-constitution-amendment-for-new-map-that-upset-india/story-A9XnqDS9nE487hNd3huZvJ.html
27-05-2020||India||Goa amends SOP for arrivals, Covid-19 test now mandatory||The Goa government has made it mandatory for all those stranded people returning to the state amid the easing of nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were imposed in end-March to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, will have to undergo swab sample tests and has withdrawn the option of being quarantined at home following a public uproar.On Wednesday, chief minister Pramod Sawant briefed media persons after a meeting of the state cabinet that a decision to this effect was taken after it was found that only a less-than-expected number of people have returned to Goa since the resumption of domestic flight services from Monday. The domestic flight services were suspended on March 25 after the nationwide lockdown restrictions were enforced.“We discussed the SOPs (standard operating protocols) and have decided to make some changes to them. Earlier, the returnees were given three options: either produce a Covid-19 free certificate from a registered ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) laboratory that’s issued 48 hours prior to their arrival; to undergo a swab sample test on arrival or be quarantined at home under our watch. The third option has been withdrawn with immediate effect,” the CM said.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverage“Now, any person returning to Goa has to either produce the Covid-19 certificate or take the test,” Sawant said.The CM pointed out that initially, the home quarantine facility was offered because the state authorities were anticipating a daily influx of 4,000 people, including 2,000 by air. So far, 200 people have arrived by air on the first two days --- on Monday and Tuesday – since the resumption of domestic flight services.“At present, around 1,000 people are returning to Goa daily, including by road and rail. We’ ve the capacity to conduct 1,000 tests per day, and the results are being made available the following day. However, if we’re looking at 4,000 returnees a day, it’d take at least four days for their results to be made available. If the load increases, then there’ll be a rethink on the strategy,” the CM said,Earlier, around 50% of the air passengers opted against taking the test. Of the 94 passengers, who arrived in Goa via the three flights, including two from Delhi and one from Bengaluru, which landed on Monday, 50 chose to undergo the test at a cost of Rs 2,000 each and all of them tested Covid-19 negative.For air travellers, the throat swab samples are being collected at the airport and they are allowed to proceed home. The results are communicated to them via a text message within 24 hours. The air passengers have been advised to maintain self-isolation until the results are made available to them.Rail passengers are ferried to test centres by buses and those arriving by buses are escorted to these facilities before they are allowed to leave. If any returnee tests positive via a TrueNat test, the traditional real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test is carried out for confirmation.Sawant also announced that there would be no need for a separate SOP for those arriving in Goa from Maharashtra, which has reported the maximum number of Covid-19 positive cases and deaths in the country so far.On Tuesday, the CM, however, had insisted on a separate set of guidelines for returnees from Maharashtra, citing that 90% of new Covid-19 positive cases have been reported from those coming back from the neighbouring state.Opposition lawmakers have criticised the state government’s move to make the Covid-19 screening optional.“Unless the returnees are screened properly, Covid-19 positive cases are bound to increase. We’ve been urging the government to ramp up its surveillance mechanism. We must not take any chance against the viral outbreak,” said Digambar Kamat, leader of the opposition. Goa has recorded 67 Covid-19 positive cases, of which 28 patients have recovered to date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-amends-sop-for-arrivals-covid-19-test-now-mandatory/story-Zp3g7VSVDam8YTfnIEtl7L.html
27-05-2020||India||Cherries in abundance in Kashmir but farmers find no markets||Cherry trees across the Kashmir Valley are laden with fruit after a good season but farmers are staring at the possibility of heavy losses due to a lack of transportation because of the Covid-19 lockdown.The railways have offered to ease the burden of farmers by transporting the fruit to various states from Amritsar. However, farmers continue to be worried because of problems related to the movement of trucks till Amritsar.Officials said they requested Northern Railways to help transport Kashmir’s cherries and this was accepted on the condition that the fruits are delivered to the railhead at Amritsar.“From June 1, Northern Railways has agreed to transport four to six metric tonnes of cherries daily from Amritsar to Delhi and Mumbai. We requested them to transport the fruits from Jammu, but that didn’t materialise,” said Manzoor Ahmad Mir, deputy director for horticulture planning and marketing.Mir said tentative figures showed the production of cherries in the Kashmir Valley this year is about 12,000 metric tonnes. Last year, the figure was around 11,700 metric tonnes.Kashmir exports some 3,500 to 4000 metric tonnes of cherries to other states every year, he said.Despite the sizeable yield, farmers are a worried lot because of the lack of demand following the closure of markets and difficulties in transporting the cherries from farms to markets amid Covid-19-related restrictions.“The market is down and we aren’t getting good rates here. I am getting Rs 45 to Rs 50 a kg this year as against last year’s Rs 75 to Rs 90 a kg. Shops and markets here are closed and our cherries must reach other states, otherwise they won’t survive,” said Manzoor Ahmad Sheikh, a farmer from Lar Ganderbal in central Kashmir.Kashmir produces four types of cherries – Awwal Number, Double, Mishri and Makhmali – with the latter two being sold to other states.“This year, we had a lot of expectations from the cherry crop as apple trees suffered damage due to bad weather during flowering. Our livelihood and the education of our children are dependent on this. If something is not done immediately, our families are going to suffer,” Sheikh said. Apart from low demand, there are difficulties in transporting the fruits even within the region, and this has triggered fears the fruits could get spoiled if they are not harvested immediately.“Cherries are extremely perishable, with a very short shelf life. We aren’t able to transport the fruits as there are no movement passes. Even if some have passes, free movement is still not allowed owing to the lockdown,” said Pardeep Singh, whose family owns a farm in north Kashmir’s Baramulla.Deputy director Mir said authorities have taken up the matter of transportation with Kashmir’s divisional commissioner. “We have requested t divisional commissioner that fruit transportation should get priority on the national highway and there should be no hindrance to the movement of trucks,” he said.Cherries are grown on an estimated 2,713 hectares in Kashmir and over the years, the production has increased. From 8,282 metric tonnes during 2016-17, the figure increased to 11,280 metric tonnes in 2017-18 and further to 11,789 metric tonnes in 2018-19.The farmers said they have also been hit by logistical issues.“The fruit is ready but there are no cardboard boxes in the markets to pack them. Industries are closed and so there is scarcity of boxes,” said Mudasir Ahmad Lone, another farmer from Baramulla.“The government should do something, they should buy some fruit themselves and open industries and mandis,” he said.A senior official of the horticulture department, speaking on condition of anonymity, said authorities had submitted proposals to the government for opening cherry processing units.“We have 25 cherry processing units for canning the fruit. We have asked the government to provide transportation and packaging for farmers, besides permission to open these units. The proposal for providing minimum support price to farmers did not mature. Let’s see what will happen as time is running out,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cherries-in-abundance-in-kashmir-but-farmers-find-no-markets/story-DmdxJiy4eQemMuI6YIGg6N.html
27-05-2020||India||IAF chief Bhadauria flies Tejas single-seater aircraft at Sulur airbase||Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria flew a Tejas single-seater light combat aircraft at the Sulur air force station on Wednesday. Officials said Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria, who worked with the team that developed the Tejas jet, flew the aircraft which is part of the IAF’s 45 Squadron.The Chief of Air Staff was in Sulur to operationalise the IAF’s 18 Squadron, which is codenamed as ‘Flying Bullets’. It will be the second squadron in the Indian Air Force to fly the Tejas aircraft.The Tejas has been developed by the Aeronautical Development Agency and the HAL. The lifespan of the jet would be a minimum of 30 years just like any other front-line combat aircraft.The combat jets are classified under various generations depending on their avionics, capability and weapons systems. The current fleet of fighter jets with the IAF range from three-and-half generation to the fourth generation.The Indian Air Force has already placed an order for 40 Tejas and is likely to seal a contract “very soon” with HAL for another 83 aircraft at a cost of around Rs 38,000 crore. A naval version of the Tejas light combat aircraft is in development stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-chief-bhadauria-flies-tejas-single-seater-aircraft-at-sulur-airbase/story-yhoCLKfNsoo8NyYoCGq6vN.html
27-05-2020||India||Congress to launch ‘SpeakUp’ campaign to raise voice of poor, migrants, small businesses||The Congress will launch a ‘SpeakUp’ campaign on May 28 to help raise the voice of the poor, migrants, small businesses and the middle class people before the central government.Congress spokesperson Ajay Maken said the party leaders, workers and sympathisers will run the online campaign from 11 am to 2 pm on Thursday.“We demand that transport be made available to all migrants to ensure that they reach home safely, increase their employment days to 200 under MGNREGA and provide Rs 10,000 as immediate financial help to the poor besides a financial package for small industries,” he told reporters.Congress social media department head Rohan Gupta said all party leaders and workers would put out messages through their Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Youtube accounts to help the voice of the poor, migrants and small businessmen and traders reach the government.The party also launched a small video on the campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-to-launch-speakup-campaign-to-raise-voice-of-poor-migrants-small-businesses/story-wJbmlaUjEClqQRuCykx1yJ.html
27-05-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi speaks with Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray, assures support||A day after his comment led to speculations that all was not well within Maharashtra’s ruling coalition, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi spoke with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray over the phone on Wednesday morning.Rahul Gandhi had said in a press conference on Tuesday that his party was only playing a supporting role in Maharashtra and it was not a key decision-maker. Congress is a partner in the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) also comprising the Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). Congress leaders later said that Rahul Gandhi’s statement was twisted. On Tuesday, he told Uddhav Thackeray that his government was doing a good job to combat the coronavirus pandemic despite the difficulties the state has been facing. “Rahulji and Uddhavji had a telephonic conversation in the morning and air was cleared over the speculations after former’s statement in the press conference. The Congress leader clarified that his statement was taken out of proportion and the Congress stands in full support of the government,” a Shiv Sena leader said. Rahul Gandhi also explained his stand behind the statement and how he has been categorically stating how important the state is and how it should be given more importance in the fight against Covid-19. He also said that the Congress is with Maharashtra and the MVA government is capable of taking a decision in its fight against the pandemic. Thackeray too reportedly assured Rahul Gandhi that the Congress, junior partner in the MVA, has been given equal importance in the decision making.Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray will meet with the members of the alliance partners on Wednesday afternoon against the backdrop of a spurt in political activities in the last few days.The meeting, to be held at the chief minister’s official residence Varsha, is expected to be attended by key ministers from the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, an MVA minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-speaks-with-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-assures-support/story-crzjr8DC0wm4x53MYi139O.html
27-05-2020||India||‘Are in big numbers, there will be difficulty’: Union minister on migrants||The Indian government is ready to provide migrant workers with trains, said union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, adding “itni badi sankhya hai kuch toh pareshani hoti hai (They are in such large numbers, there will be some difficulty)”. The minister made the comments at a press conference on Wednesday. Referring to Congress’ Rahul Gandhi’s meet with migrants, Prasad dismissed it as an attempt at theatrics. Speaking about his meeting with migrant workers, the Congress leader said there is a sense of hopelessness. “Bharosa toot gaya (Have lost faith)” is what Rahul Gandhi said the workers told him.The Congress will launch a ‘SpeakUp’ campaign on May 28 to help raise the voice of the poor, migrants, small businesses and the middle class people before the central government.On Tuesday, the Supreme Court issued notices to the Centre and state governments over the migrants’ plight, saying there have “been lapses”. The bench said the central and state governments should immediately provide adequate transport arrangement, food and shelters “free of costs”.Media reports, the court said, had been “continuously showing the unfortunate and miserable conditions of migrant labourers” walking on-foot and cycles from long distances.“Not proper for me to make observations on the Supreme Court’s remarks. The state and central governments will respond to the notice. All the governments are doing their best, these are very challenging times,” said the law minister.Earlier, the Congress had accused the central government and the rail ministry of charging migrants for train tickets in this hour of crisis. Stepping in, Congress president Sonia Gandhi had said her party will bear the cost for the rail travel of all such workers stranded due to the coronavirus lockdown.Since then the party has attacked the BJP for the same. “Rahul Gandhi also made false allegations that ticket money is being taken for workers’ tickets in Shramik Special trains. The government has repeatedly told that the fare is not being charged from the labourers, the railway ministry is carrying 85% of the ticket fare and the state governments 15%,” said Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/are-in-big-numbers-there-will-be-difficulty-ravi-shankar-prasad-on-migrants/story-UPpWwSRHbnHKeNy1XFWFVN.html
27-05-2020||India||Covid-19 deaths in India could top 18,000 soon, says report||Covid-19 cases are expected to peak in early July in India, where deaths from the pandemic could top 18,000, an Epidemiologist and a public health expert said.The country is still in the ascending limb of the epidemic, said Prof D Prabhakaran, Director, Centre for Control of Chronic Conditions (CCCC).Prabhakaran, also Professor at the Department of Epidemiology, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, the UK, said there can be no single number when asked about his assessment on eventual Covid-19 deaths in India.We should peak around early July.This is based on a study of various published models and observing how the epidemic has risen and fallen in other countries, he told PTI on Wednesday.Given that we are expecting around four to six lakh cases and with an average of three per cent mortality, it (Covid-19 deaths in India) would be around 12,000-18,000, added the Adjunct Professor, Rollins School of Public Health, Emory University in the US.On low mortality rate in India and possible reasons for it, he said we will know if the mortality is actually low when the epidemic ends.However with limited data it appears that mortality is low.To me I think it is the age structure as compared to Italy or the US which is much younger in India, the Vice President - Research & Policy, Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), where he is also Professor, Epidemiology, said.Age is an important risk factor and the older you are the chances of having these problems are higher.Other reasons including universal BCG vaccination, Malaria endemicity, exposure to repeated infections, unsanitary conditions increasing our immunity, hot weather have been implicated but we don’t have any clear proof of their role, he added. Director of Indian Institute of Public Health-Hyderabad, Prof G V S Murthy said the lowest mortality in the South Asia region has been reported from Sri Lanka (0.4 per million) while India, Singapore, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Malaysia have similar low rates per million population. It is difficult to say why the mortality is lower in these countries, Profesor Murthy said.All these countries initiated a community lock down early in the course of the pandemic and therefore this may have reduced the contact with active cases of Covid-19 unlike in Europe and the US where such steps were delayed.Evidence available globally and in India shows that the risk of mortality is highest among those aged 60 years or older , he said.In India, 50 per cent of all Covid-19 deaths have been among those older than 60 years.The proportion of population aged 60-plus in India is 9.9 per cent compared to 22.4 per cent in the US, 24.1 per cent in the UK and 29.4 per cent in Italy.Because of the early lockdown, exposure of this high risk population in India along with those with co-morbidities like diabetes and hypertension was reduced significantly.This could be the main cause of low mortality, Professor Murthy told PTI.He added that in a fortnight, dengue, malaria and diarrhoea will start creating havoc.Lessons learnt from Covid-19 on importance of personal hygiene and self-care are the mantras for curtailing the adverse effects of infectious diseases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-deaths-in-india-could-top-18-000-soon-says-report/story-C7NOknS1hkjyLi8AF8P3HO.html
27-05-2020||India||Three industrial towns of Chhattisgarh have toxic air: analysis||A new air quality analysis of three industrial areas of Chhattisgarh has revealed that there is severe PM 2.5 pollution and the air is laden with heavy metals such as nickel, manganese, silica and lead.The analysis was conducted in the industrial areas of Korba, Champa and Raipur by the State Health Resource Centre of Chhattisgarh, an autonomous body that provides technical support to the state health department. It collected air samples from these towns between January and February. At nine sites close to coal mines and thermal power plants in the three town, samples were collected for 24 hours from roofs of houses and public health centres. Sampling revealed that concentrations of PM 2.5 (or fine, respirable pollution particles) ranged from 186 micrograms per cubic metre to 549.9 micrograms per cubic metre, which is 3.1 and 9.1 times higher than the national standard of 60 micrograms per cubic metre.Manganese concentrations in eight of the nine samples exceeded the US Environment Protection Agency (EPA) reference of 0.05 micrograms per cubic metre, and also the World Health Organization’s (WHO) safety guideline of 0.15 micrograms per cubic metre. Nickel concentrations exceeded the WHO guideline (based on cancer risk) in all samples. Silicon concentrations too were unsafe in all the samples. In most environments, the predominant form of silicon in ambient air is crystalline silica. Coal ash and iron and steel operations, both common to the region, have high levels of crystalline silica and could be prominent contributors, the analysis said. Lead concentrations exceeded the US EPA standard in two out of the nine samples.“Multiple studies have shown that there are linkages between PM 2.5 and respiratory diseases and cardiovascular problems. In addition, manganese, lead and nickel are well known toxins and their effects on human health have been well documented,” Prabir Chatterjee, former executive director of the State Health Resource Center, was quoted as saying in the analysis.“Manganese and lead are predominantly neurotoxins while nickel is a carcinogen. The measurement of such toxic substances from the rooftops of human settlements and health care facilities is indeed a cause for concern,” he added. The analysis recommended the government should set up specialised healthcare facilities at the polluters’ cost, under the “polluter pays” principle, to cater to health issues of residents of Korba, Champa and Raipur. This should include facilities such as spirometry at the district hospitals.A pollution cess is levied on units and activities not conforming to national air quality standards, the analysis suggested.Due to the Covid-19-linked economic slowdown, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman recently said India would further open up commercial coal mining. This would mean more emissions from thermal power plants and coal dust emissions from mines. A report by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) released last week found that 70% of thermal power plants in India won’t meet new emission standards for sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, and particulate matter by 2022, a deadline given to them by the environment ministry. “Chhattisgarh needs to immediately find out where they stand. The new standards have to be met by 2022 but if the tendering process for emission control equipment has just started, then they will not be able to meet the deadline. There has to be a deterrence strategy for these plants to ensure they comply. On mining, there is very little information on the scale of pollution,” said CSE executive director Anumita Roy Chowdhury.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-industrial-towns-of-chhattisgarh-have-toxic-air-analysis/story-VtczgPgiR7HKle1a8hxOUK.html
27-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ‘Do your CMs not listen to you?’, Union minister to Rahul Gandhi on lockdown and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Do your CMs not listen to you?’: Union minister to Rahul Gandhi on lockdownIf lockdown is no solution, why did your state governments imposed it in the first place, asked Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad to Rahul Gandhi, a day after Congress leader said the idea had failed to achieve its objective. Read morePM Modi’s ‘Doklam team’ back in action to stand up to China in LadakhIndia has pushed in high altitude warfare troops with support elements to the eastern Ladakh theatre to counter Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) aggressive posture designed to browbeat the government to stop building border infrastructure in the Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO) sector as it may threaten the Lhasa-Kashgar highway in Aksai Chin. Read moreNot a Harry Potter spin-off: JK Rowling releases first chapters of new story, The Ickabog, online for freeRenowned children’s author JK Rowling is publishing a new story called The Ickabog, which will be free to read online to help entertain children and families stuck at home during the coronavirus pandemic. Read moreCovid-19: WHO warns 1st wave far from over, ICMR removes price cap on testsHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of covid-19 cases in India, WHO’s warning to South Asia and South America, politics in Maharashtra amid pandemic, charge sheets filed against 82 foreign Jamaat participants and more. Watch the full video for more.Read morePUBG Mobile’s new secret map to have monster trucks, healing springsPUBG Mobile told us about taking a break and ‘breaking new ground’ a few days ago and that suggested that the devs were all set to drop a new map for players to explore. Read moreICC Board Meeting: T20 World Cup to be postponed to 2022, October window for IPL- ReportThe postponement of this year’s T20 World Cup in Australia to 2022, which might open up a window for the lucrative Indian Premier League in October, is expected to be formalised when the International Cricket Council’s all-powerful board holds a tele-conference on Thursday. Read moreMeet the explorer Gharial that travelled 1100 km from Nepal to IndiaWhen you hear about a crocodile, the first image that comes to your mind is that of a huge scary reptile, with vivacious eyes and scary teeth, basking in the sun or just waiting in the water. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-do-your-cms-not-listen-to-you-union-minister-to-rahul-gandhi-on-lockdown-and-all-the-latest-news/story-1FaUuTR4NCOTfAkBHYwIoN.html
27-05-2020||India||There will be a Covid-19 vaccine by next year: Global health expert to Rahul Gandhi||Acclaimed American public health expert Ashish Jha has told former Congress president Rahul Gandhi that three vaccine candidates are showing promising results in the fight against the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and expressed confidence that there could be a new vaccine by next year.“Three vaccine candidates are showing promising results. These are from America, China, and Oxford University. For now, they all seem promising and maybe one or all of them may turn out to be effective. I’m confident that the vaccine will be available by next year. India has to prepare a plan on how to avail the vaccines for its population,” he added.Jha is a professor of Global Health at TH Chan School of Public Health and director, Harvard Global Health Institute. He made the remarks during his interaction with Gandhi, who has been holding a series of dialogues with global experts on various aspects of Covid-19 via video-conference since the viral outbreak.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageAsked by Gandhi, if the Bacillus Calmette–Guérin (BCG) vaccine, which is used against meningitis and tuberculosis in children, is helpful and the virus doesn’t operate in hot weather, Jha said: “BCG vaccine can be helpful. There is some circumstantial evidence that these vaccines can be helpful, but it’s not very good evidence. New testing is underway and we’ll know in the next few months if these vaccines play a major role. There is some evidence that the weather makes a difference. There is less transmission of the disease in being outdoors than indoors.”He added: “It’s a new virus. There is new testing. New studies are going on and in the next couple of months, we’ll know much more. Some nice randomised trials are being carried out. I suspect that in the next three months, we’ll know much more if these vaccines will play a major role. I’m personally sceptical that the BCG vaccine will be an important mediator. I don’t know, but we’ll know soon. But there’s certainly not enough evidence to make policy as of now.”Jha said there is some evidence, which shows that the weather makes a difference. “There’s going to be easy transmission if 15 people are staying in one small room. But once these people are outdoors, and there’s the air that would make the situation a bit better.”Jha claimed that the world is entering an age of pandemics.“I’m confident that this is not the last large global pandemic you and I are going to see in the next 20 years. We got lucky that in the 2009 H1N1 swine flu didn’t cause that much harm, even though it was declared a pandemic. A virus that gets started somewhere spreads very quickly globally,” he added.“There are also big environmental changes. All of this economic growth that you see in China and India and many other places have lifted people out of poverty. But the growth also led to deforestation and rampant encroachment on animal habitats. Most pandemics that come to humans jump from animals. This virus has existed in bats but there was a small change probably in the genome and all of a sudden it became suitable for human hosts. I think climate change is going to make many of these things worse,” he said.“The other thing that has happened with economic growth is that people are eating a lot more meat, which means more interactions between humans and animals. Put all of it together. If you look at the last 100 years, you’ll see the increasing frequency of these kind of outbreaks and Covid-19, of course, is the worst in a hundred years. But, I’m confident that we’re going to have more global pandemics in the coming years and decades. We have to ask ourselves: how we are going to better prepare for the next one?” Jha asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/there-will-be-a-covid-19-vaccine-by-next-year-global-health-expert-to-rahul-gandhi/story-reXFPRQv8RKXxXTAN68f6M.html
27-05-2020||India||Woman ends life with children after husband accuses her of having illicit relation: Police||Four people - a woman, her two daughters and a son - ended their lives by jumping before the train in Uttar Pradesh’s Chandauli district late on Tuesday evening.The police said that a goods train driver informed railway officials and Government Railway Police (GRP) that some people jumped before the train on the railway track near Hinauta village. The officials reached the spot where they found the four bodies.The woman was 40-year-old, said the police, adding that her daughters were aged 20 and 16 and son was 19. They were identified from their mobile phones recovered from the spot, an officer said.She was the wife of a vegetable vendor. Police said that the man suspected that his wife was in an illicit relation. They used to fight over the matter and even had an altercation on Tuesday, the cops added.According to the police, all four left home at around 6 pm on Tuesday and walked to Hinauta where they jumped before the train. The woman was perhaps hurt by the blame, and took the extreme step along with her children, said the police.“All four have been identified as resident of Sudam Maidhi village. The initial probe revealed that the vegetable vendor suspected of having illicit relations with someone. They (husband and wife) were having strained relations,” Superintendent of Police Hemant Kutiyal said.Their bodies have been sent for the post-mortem, he said, adding that further investigation is on. A team of police has been sent to Sudam Maidhi village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-ends-life-with-children-after-husband-accuses-her-of-having-illicit-relation-police/story-YryGloTuvfgEaRMNL7AqlL.html
27-05-2020||India||Govt didn’t consider oppn steps on migrants’ issue: Congress’ Randeep Surjewala to Supreme Court||Congress leader Randeep Surjewala has told the Supreme Court the Centre has failed to formulate any joint committee with opposition parties for addressing the issue of stranded migrant labourers.Randeep Surjewala said this in his intervention in the suo motu case in the Supreme Court on migrant labourers. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe Congress spokesperson said the government has, therefore, been unable to consider the measures suggested by him and the opposition party or any member of Parliament not belonging to the ruling dispensation.The top court had on Tuesday taken suo motu cognizance of the crisis two months after it started and pointed to inadequacies and lapses in measures taken by the Centre and state governments in addressing difficulties faced by migrant workers because of the Covid-19 lockdown.A three-judge bench of the top court, headed by justice Ashok Bhushan, issued a notice to the Centre and state governments and ordered them to make immediate arrangements for the migrant workers’ transportation, food and shelter free of cost.The court asked the Centre and states to file their responses, treating the matter as urgent. The case will be heard again on Thursday when the central government’s second senior-most law officer, solicitor general Tushar Mehta, will have to assist the court on the measures taken by the central government to alleviate the sufferings of the migrant workers.The top court’s order came a week-and-a-half after another bench refused to intervene on a petition that wanted the government to identify stranded migrant workers, take care of their needs and provide free transport to them. “How can we (migrants) stop them from walking,” one of the judges on this bench had said.After the nationwide lockdown was enforced by India on March 25 to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease, migrant workers were left jobless and a way to return to their homes. Some states started bringing back these migrant workers from other states using buses and on May 1 the government began special trains for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-didn-t-consider-oppn-steps-on-migrants-issue-congress-randeep-surjewala-to-supreme-court/story-3S0gjrZP9mOD6D7v0ub7mI.html
27-05-2020||India||‘Do your CMs not listen to you?’: Union minister to Rahul Gandhi on lockdown||If lockdown is no solution, why did your state governments imposed it in the first place, asked Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad to Rahul Gandhi, a day after Congress leader said the idea had failed to achieve its objective. “Rahul Gandhi earlier said that lockdown isn’t a solution against Covid-19. On the contrary, Punjab and Rajasthan imposed lockdowns at the earliest. Maharashtra extended it till May 31. Do your CMs not listen to you?” asked Ravi Shankar Prasad on Wednesday.Rahul Gandhi, at his press conference on Tuesday, pointed out that there has been one lockdown after another but the coronavirus cases have been on the rise. The country is in the fourth phase of lockdown, which will end on May 31.The BJP leader said if the Congress leader has a new exit plan, “he should tell us”. The law minister added that he should first “tell his chief ministers”.The minister highlighted that coronavirus has become a big problem in 15 nations of the world whose total population is 142 crore and has seen 3.43 lakh deaths till May 26. Contrasting the situation with India, the minister said it was the result of lockdown that India reported only 4,345 deaths. “India has a population of 137 crores and 4,345 people have died in our country. More than 64 thousand recoveries have been made. By the way, death is unfortunate anywhere. Prime Minister has united the country through lockdown, it is the result of that,” said Prasad.The minster accused Rahul Gandhi of “spreading negativity” and weakening the country’s resolve against coronavirus.“I can tell you five ways by which Rahul Gandhi has tried to weaken the resolve of the country: Spreading negativity, working against the nation in times of crisis, taking false credit, saying something and doing something else, spreading false facts and false news,” said Prasad. Gandhi, at this press conference, expressed concern that India is the only country which is relaxing the lockdown when the virus is “exponentially rising”.He said that if the government functions haphazardly and takes ad-hoc measures during the non-lockdown period, the country will face a second wave of coronavirus which will be “extremely devastating”.The Congress leader asked the prime minister to play aggressively on the front foot and tell the country on what he intends to do moving forward. He said the prime minister who initially played on the front foot has now gone on the back foot as he is not seen. The BJP leader, however, stressed that the “PM is playing on the front foot and we can see the results”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/do-your-cms-not-listen-to-you-union-minister-to-rahul-gandhi-on-lockdown/story-e2AvNBRpkHX1TYp65GcfdP.html
27-05-2020||India||Mounting pressure senior lawyers changed SC approach on migrant labourers||The Supreme Court’s order directing the Central and state governments to provide free transport, food and shelter to migrant workers on an urgent basis is in stark contrast to the approach it had adopted throughout the Covid-19 lockdown.Up until Tuesday, when it issued the order, the top court had shied away from taking up cases and passing strictures against the government in cases related to the lockdown and migrant workers.But the apex court, in its order, took serious note of the plight of migrant workers and asked the Centre and all states to file responses regarding measures put in place by them to help the workers. It also listed the matter for hearing on Thursday, a departure from its usual practice of adjourning most cases for two weeks or more. Also read: Chhattisgarh reports first Covid-19 death after migrant passing through tests positiveMoreover, the order was passed suo motu, that is, on its own and not in response to any petition.So what led to the sudden change in its stance?Twenty-one lawyers from Delhi and Mumbai had written to the Chief Justice on Monday, urging the Supreme Court to intervene in the humanitarian crisis caused by the lockdown.“We address this letter because we believe that the Hon’ble Supreme Court’s failure to protect the rights of the hapless millions of migrant workers in March and its failure to scrutinise carefully the executive’s actions, which resulted in them (migrant labourers) being compelled to stay in cramped unhygienic accommodation without employment and wages and often without proper food and with a much higher risk of Covid infection,” the letter said.The letter was signed by leading lawyers such as P Chidambaram, Anand Grover, Indira Jaising, Mohan Katarki, Siddarth Luthra, Santosh Paul, Mahalaxmi Pavani, Kapil Sibal, Chander Uday Singh, Vikas Singh, Prashant Bhushan, Iqbal Chagla, Aspi Chinoy, Mihir Desai, Janak Dwarkadas, Rajani Iyer, Yusuf Muchhala, Rajiv Patil, Navroz Seervai, Gayatri Singh and Sanjay Singhvi.Also read: Migrant, family survive only on water for 3 daysThey said the lockdown was imposed from March 25 without any consideration paid to the plight of the poor, especially migrant workers who earn a livelihood in major cities, and for whom social distancing is a utopian impossibility.Deprived of their employment and definite source of food, migrant workers were forced to start walking to their home states, often thousands of kilometres away, with little children, family members or elderly parents, the letter said.It also pointed out that the Supreme Court had refused to intervene when a petition highlighting these concerns came up before it in March. It said: “This failure to intervene in March, subsequently resulted in a massive migration of millions of workers by early May, when migrant labourers who were fed up with being virtually incarcerated for the previous six weeks, without employment or wages, decided that they would be better off trying to go back to their homes.”The lawyers urged the court to use public interest litigation jurisprudence developed by it, along with its powers under the Constitution, to redress problems faced by migrant workers.“This Hon’ble Court has the power bestowed by the Constitution of India to undertake any measure to do complete justice. The show of helplessness does no justice to the moto of this court ‘Yato dharmastato Jaya’,” the letter stated. The Supreme Court itself acknowledged in its order of Tuesday that it had received letters and representations from different sections of society, highlighting the “unfortunate and miserable conditions of migrant labourers” walking on foot and using bicycles to travel long distances. Several high courts, including those in Gujarat, Madras, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, have passed orders to redress grievances of migrant workers, though the Supreme Court continued to be silent on the issue till Tuesday.Former Supreme Court judge Gopala Gowda had, in a scathing article in Deccan Herald, described the Supreme Court’s response to the migrant crisis during the Covid-19 crisis as the “darkest moment” in its history, worse than the infamy the apex court had acquired during the national emergency of 1975, when it had approved the executive action of detaining political leaders without trial.Senior advocate and Supreme Court Bar Association president Dushyant Dave had also criticised the court’s handling of Covid-19 cases. At a webinar organised by the All India Lawyers Union on May 23, he said the judiciary failed to protect the rights of citizens during the crisis and remained silent as citizens suffered.He said judges should have taken suo motu cognisance of the issue instead of waiting for cases to be listed before them.“What is stopping outstanding judges from taking up matters (relating to Covid-19) suo motu? They should confront the chief justice’s powers of master of roster. But they are remaining silent,” Dave said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mounting-pressure-senior-lawyers-changed-sc-approach-on-migrant-labourers/story-9zB3TDDVnSHNdueHcl8b7H.html
27-05-2020||India||Covid-19: As Rajasthan crosses 7,500-mark, Jhalawar records 64 cases in 24 hours||Rajasthan has seen further spike in the number of coronavirus disease cases and the overall figure has crossed the 7,500-mark.The Rajasthan health department said on Wednesday that 109 new Covid-19 positive cases and two fatalities have been reported till 9 am today. “The total tally of positive cases in the state has risen to 7,645,” the department said.In the last 24 hours, the highest number of cases (64) was recorded from Jhalawar, followed by six each in Jaipur and Bharatpur. However, the highest number of cases are in Jaipur (1866), followed by Jodhpur (1,278), according to data shared by the state health department.Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot held a review meeting on Tuesday where he directed officials to conduct impact study of measures taken to contain the spread of the disease.He said some experts had opined that the number of cases might rise in the coming days, therefore, the level of alertness should remain the same in the state.The chief minister also asked the officials to ensure food and other facilities at quarantine centres in the state.Chief Secretary D B Gupta later informed the media that three task forces of officials had been formed for preparing action plans for departments related with Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), agriculture and construction. The task forces will submit their reports by June 5.While there are 3,180 active cases in the state, a total of 3,773 patients have been discharged from hospitals after recovering from the disease.Jaipur has recorded a maximum of 83 deaths in the state, followed by Jodhpur with 17 deaths and Kota with 16 fatalities.Among the total 7,536 cases in the state are 2,029 migrants who have recently returned to Rajasthan from other states/UTs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-as-rajasthan-crosses-7-500-mark-jhalawar-records-spurt-with-64-cases-in-24-hours/story-4LWEXVj7oevNobktE3XfgJ.html
27-05-2020||India||New world order post Covid-19, balance of power between US, China will change: Rahul Gandhi||“People say 9/11 was a new chapter, this [Covid-19] is a new book,” former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said on Wednesday, contending there will be a new world after the pandemic ends.He also contended that the balance of power between China and the US will change after the pandemic.Gandhi’s remarks came during a video interaction with American health expert and Harvard Global Health Institute director Ashish Jha. Gandhi was asked by Jha how the coronavirus will change society and what social norms and interactions will look like in India two years from now.Also Read: ‘Do your CMs not listen to you?’: Union minister to Rahul Gandhi on lockdown“I don’t think there will be one response to this disease. Every state will have its own response. You can already see that some states are doing better than others because of their nature, their design, their political system. I get the sense that the more decentralised states, the states that spread more power closer to the people, will do better,” Gandhi said.“That’s my sense. I think the large urban centres will get hurt badly. I hope that this disease will bring people together and bring them to the realisation that you can’t fight this disease as different religions, or different communities, different castes, different genders,” he added.However, Gandhi said there is a potential opportunity due to the pandemic.Also Read: ‘If 9/11 was a new chapter, Covid-19 is a new book’: Rahul Gandhi“There is an opportunity that in fighting this disease, we are able to start a conversation, we are able to understand that everybody is required to fight this disease and we are able to work together to get out of this,” he said.“I think there is a potential for that. We will also have to prepare ourselves for significant pain. I do worry about our older people, I also worry about our younger people who are sort of critical for the future growth of this country.”At the global level, the former Congress chief said, the virus is operating at two levels.“One, it is operating at a healthcare level and two, it is attacking the globalised structure. If you look at the places that are vulnerable, they are all nerve centres of globalisation. And if you look at the people who are vulnerable, they are all people who have been damaged by the food chain. Heart disease, particular types of diets, particular types of behaviour, all come from globalisation and the virus is attacking them,” he said.“I am convinced you are going to have a new world after this virus. I also think for example, I think it is going to reshape Europe. Many people won’t like what I say…But I think Europe will have real, real difficulty staying together. I think the balance of power between the US and China will change. I think we are entering…people say 9/11 was a new chapter, this is a new book,” Gandhi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-world-order-post-covid-19-balance-of-power-between-us-china-will-change-rahul-gandhi/story-hXAcyyjfsx67QpsKHw1w6H.html
27-05-2020||India||The India we love: Muslim man breaks fast to save a Hindu woman and her child||A few days ago, Rupesh Kumar, a distressed father-to-be from Shamli, Uttar Pradesh,was hoping for a miracle. Amid the lockdown, his wife Dolly had to undergo a caesarian operation and she urgently required two units of B+ blood. Abid Saifi, a social worker got this information through Sandeep Kumar, admin of Jai Hind Blood Group, a WhatsApp group that helps patients connect with donors.Dolly, who lived in Kaka Nagar was admitted in Jyoti nursing home. Husain immediately responded to the message on the group, confirming that he was ready to donate blood. Without thinking for a minute, he broke his fast to be able to donate blood, and rushed to the hospital. Dolly received blood in time and she gave birth to a healthy baby boy. Her husband, advocate Rupesh Kumar was very moved by Saifi’s gesture and called to thank him for saving his wife’s and son’s life. He also requested Saifi if he could help him choose a name for the newborn child.Saifi says that he is very grateful to God for giving him an opportunity to help someone in the Holy month of Ramzan. “When we Muslims say Alhamdulillahi Rabbil Alamin, it implies, praise be to Allah, the Lord of the entire universe, the Lord of all those who inhabit this earth, nowhere it’s written, He is the Lord of just Muslims, so there’s no way a Muslim can ever discriminate among human beings. As a Muslim, I can’t be happier that I got an opportunity to help someone!,” he says.The social activist says that the whole idea of fasting in Ramzan is to please God, and God can’t be happier that he broke his fast to save two lives. “Humanity will always be above religion! Many are trying to spread hate in the name of religion, but we understand how wrong it is to discriminate,” says Saifi, who every year, in the month of sawan, hosts worshippers of Lord Shiva that take part in Kanwar Yatra. He organises rest camps for the kanwariyas, serves them food and drinks and also applies ointments to the pilgrims’ sore feet.Love will always have the power to magically conquer hatred. This is the India we love, the India we live for!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/work-from-home/the-india-we-love-muslim-man-breaks-fast-to-save-a-hindu-woman-and-her-child/story-LSTcawOEfCHFZS9I2aYwkI.html
27-05-2020||India||18-year-old record broken in Delhi, Churu sizzles as world’s hottest place: All you need to know about heatwave||A heatwave is singing the northern part of the country, with most places recording temperatures above 45 degrees Celsius.Rajasthan’s Churu recorded a maximum temperature of 50 degree Celsius on Tuesday, said Ravindra Sihag, Scientist at Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). This was the highest temperature in the world yesterday, said Sihag.National capital Delhi too sizzled on Tuesday, recording the highest temperatures in May in at least a decade at the Palam weather station and 18 years at Safdarjung station.Back in 2010 in Palam and 2002 in Safdarjung, the same temperatures were recorded - 47.6 degrees Celsius in the former and 46 degree Celsius in the latter.The temperatures come on the back of an exceptionally pleasant April in the capital; even the first half of May saw maximum temperatures well below normal in the city. Delhi does get hotter (sometimes), but only in June.What is a heatwaveWest Rajasthan, west Madhya Pradesh, south Haryana, Delhi, south Utter Pradesh, north Madhya Pradesh and Vidarbha are reporting severe heatwave conditions. On Tuesday, Ganganagar in Rajasthan recorded a temperature of 47 degrees Celsius, Bikaner, also in Rajasthan, recorded 47.4 degrees Celsius, Hisar in Haryana, 48 degrees Celsius, and Banda in UP 48 degrees Celsius - all in the severe heatwave category.There are two criteria for recording heatwaves: A maximum temperature of at least 40 degrees Celsius which is 4.5 degree Celsius to 6.4 degrees Celsius higher than the usual; or a maximum temperature of at least 45 degrees Celsius for two stations in a sub-division for two consecutive days.A severe heatwave is declared when the maximum temperature is at least 40 degrees Celsius and the departure from normal is more than 6.4 degrees Celsius or the actual maximum temperature is more than 47 degrees Celsius.Health impactThe health impacts of heatwaves typically involve dehydration, cramps, exhaustion and/or heat stroke. The National Disaster Management Authority has losted following signs and symptoms:• Ederna (swelling) and Syncope (Fainting) generally accompanied by fever below 39 degrees Celsius 102 degres Fahrenheit.• Fatigue, weakness, dizziness, headache, nausea, vomiting, muscle cramps and sweating.• Body temperatures of 40 degrees Celsius i.e. 104 degrees Fahrenheit or more along with delirium, seizures or coma. This is a potential fatal condition.Relief from ThursdayDue to dry, north-westerly winds over plains of northwest India, central India and adjoining interior parts of eastern India, present heatwave conditions are likely to continue for the next 24 hours, IMD said in a statement adding that severe heatwave conditions are likely over pockets of Vidarbha on May 27, and the heatwave will continue over parts of Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and East Madhya Pradesh on May 26 and 27.The situation is likely to change from Thursday.Under the influence of a western disturbance and formation of east-west trough (area of low pressure) in lower levels, rain and thunderstorms are likely in many parts of northwest India on May 28 and 29 following which heatwave conditions will abate.“Super cyclone Amphan sucked out all the moisture from other parts of the country and very dry, northwesterly winds from land side was blowing over northwest India. Plus, we had clear skies and direct sunshine which also led to the peaking of maximum temperatures. There was no intense western disturbance which could change this kind of wind pattern or cause clouding,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.According to National Disaster Management Authority’s guidelines for preparation of heat action plan released in 2017, heatwaves have caused 25,716 deaths between 1992 and 2016 across various states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/18-year-old-record-broken-in-delhi-churu-sizzles-as-world-s-hottest-place-all-you-need-to-know-about-heatwave/story-wbax5MsJunWXrUVMeMN1WI.html
27-05-2020||India||PM Modi’s ‘Doklam team’ back in action to stand up to China in Ladakh||India has pushed in high altitude warfare troops with support elements to the eastern Ladakh theatre to counter Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) aggressive posture designed to browbeat the government to stop building border infrastructure in the Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO) sector as it may threaten the Lhasa-Kashgar highway in Aksai Chin. The specialised Indian troops are familiar with the Tibetan Autonomous Region of China and are tuned for operating at rarefied altitudes.The scale of PLA deployment - two brigades strength and more - indicates that the move has the sanction of Beijing and not limited to local military commanders.“From Australia to Hong Kong to Taiwan to the South China Sea to India and right up to the US, a bellicose China is staring at the world for domination at all costs,” said a senior government official after a meeting convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to review the situation on Tuesday.Also Watch | ‘China hindering patrolling’: India slams Beijing after Ladakh, Sikkim fistfights For three faces at PM Modi’s strategy meeting, this was the second time in three years that they were faced with a similar situation. National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and Foreign Minister S Jaishankar. This was the team that had crafted India’s response to the Doklam standoff in 2017 that lasted 73 days. General Rawat was then the army chief and Jaishankar, India’s foreign secretary.Also Read: India matches up to China’s military in standoff near Karakoram PassThe messaging from Tuesday’s meeting mirrored India’s response to the 2017 standoff when Indian troops dug in and stood their ground in the face of a rapid mobilisation by the Chinese side.Officials said while India favours de-escalating the situation on the LAC through mutual respect and dialogue under the peace and tranquility mechanism in place, PM Modi’s ‘Doklam team’ has been told to prepare for all eventualities.Standoff in a nutshellChina has moved two brigades strength of soldiers to eastern Ladakh sectorChina wants India to stop building roads in Ladakh’s Daulat Beg Oldie sectorDaulat Beg Oldie is the last military post south of the Karakoram PassPakistan has initiated troop movement in neighbouring Gilgit-Baltistan region in support of its iron brother Govt has made it clear New Delhi will not back down from standoff with ChinaIndia will stand up to China in terms of troops, capacity and resourcesAjit Doval, S Jaishankar and CDS Gen Bipin Rawat are crafting India’s responseIn purely military terms, the Chinese dominance and deterrence posture in the DBO sector is an effort by the PLA to try to prevent India from executing its rapid border infrastructure building plan. This summer is the last chance it has.“The Darbuk-Shyok-DBO road will be completed this year and will raise the Indian capacity to rapidly deploy in the area. If the road project is blocked, the Indian Army will be forced to live off aerial supply lines and prepare for an arduous route linking Sansoma to Murgo to DBO through glaciated Saser La,” a national security planner in the government said.Also Read: China’s tactical play in Ladakh isn’t just about the boundaryTo be sure, there has been friction between the Indian Army and PLA in Pangong Tso, Galwan and Depsang Plains for the last two years. But most of these were taken care of.“Just as China has built infrastructure within its own claim line without any objections from India, the former is opposed to any Indian infrastructure build up as if New Delhi has military objectives while Beijing has done this to promote tourism,” said a former army chief, a reference to the infrastructure on the Chinese side where all military outposts are linked by metalled roads to the base camps.Also Read: Resolution of the Doklam stand-off is a case study on how to deal with ChinaWhile China has all plans to stare down India into submission with its all-weather ally Pakistan deliberately initiating troop movement in neighbouring Gilgit-Baltistan region, India cannot afford to budge from its position as this will amount to acceding to Xi Jinping’s cartographic expansion in the area through military muscle.It is in this context that the Indian Army has inducted more troops in the theatre with others undergoing through the acclimatization process as this may be a long haul.“The Chinese have already initiated psychological operations through its mouthpieces to remind India of the 1962 border skirmish in the same area. But this is 2020 and the leader is Narendra Modi,” said a senior cabinet minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-doklam-team-back-in-action-to-stand-up-to-china-in-ladakh/story-F1E9vWFXP9qGghwExg90ZM.html
27-05-2020||India||Another meeting in Maharashtra, this time between CM Uddhav Thackeray and allies||Maharashtra will see another meeting on Wednesday amid speculation of a rift in the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition as the state fights the coronavirus pandemic.Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray’s meeting with the members of the alliance partners shortly will come after a series of similar talks even as the ruling party’s leader Sanjay Raut said the government will complete its full term.Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar met the chief minister after having tea with Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Monday.There were speculations that Pawar was not happy with Thackeray’s handling of the Covid-19 outbreak in the worst-hit state, while the Sena chief was unhappy with the NCP leader’s stand to reopen economic activities in the state.“Whatever is being said in the media over Maharashtra political situation, there is no such situation in the state,” Nana Patole, state Congress leader, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“At this time, we are only working towards fighting Covid-19. We are following all guidelines of the government of India,” Patole, who is also the assembly speaker, said.The Thackeray government has been criticised by the Bharatiya Janata Party and opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis, who led an agitation against the government last week. Fadnavis has stepped up its attack on the state government’s handling of the pandemic and at the same time denied the BJP was seeking to destabilise the government. Speculation over the fate of the government had picked up on Monday when Pawar—widely considered the key architect of the coalition comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP and the Congress formed after the 2019 assembly elections—met Koshyari and also had his third meeting in the span of weeks with Thackeray, who is under criticism for his handling of the pandemic.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s comment that his party was not the “key decision-maker’ in the state has also prompted allegations that the Congress is seeking to distance itself from the state government of which it is a part. On his part, Sharad Pawar claimed the government is safe and accused Fadnavis of being “impatient”. The Shiv Sena claimed the meeting between Pawar and Thackeray as routine.“Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Sharad Pawar met at Matoshree last evening for 1.5 hours. There are some who are spreading false stories about the stability of this MVA govt. That is nothing but heartburn. This government is stable. Don’t worry,” Raut had tweeted on Tuesday morning.Pawar, Thackeray, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and other senior MVA ministers held meetings at the Bal Thackeray memorial site in Shivaji Park this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-meeting-in-maharashtra-this-time-between-cm-uddhav-thackeray-and-allies/story-uCo2bB2biXL5PXCmvTQx9I.html
27-05-2020||India||Army chief to discuss Chinese aggression at Commanders’ Conference||Army Chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane is presiding over the Commanders’ Conference that began on Wednesday.During the three-day meeting, the top brass of the force is likely to discuss security issues along with other points. The stand-off at the border with China in Ladakh is also likely to be discussed.The meeting comes amid the Indian Army increasing presence of its troops to match the strength of the Chinese Army, which has deployed over 5,000 of its personnel on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) at different locations in the Ladakh sector.The stand-off centres around a strategic bridge being built near Daulat Beg Oldi, the last military post south of the Karakoram Pass.The movement of the troops has been done with the idea to not allow any alteration of Indian territory and to face the Chinese challenge with “strength and restraint”, according to people familiar with the matter who asked not to be named.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had chaired a high-leve security meeting with National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval and Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat to assess the situation along the LAC. The CDS briefed PM Modi on the military inputs and suggestions to handle the situation in Ladakh.In many ways, India’s position is a reiteration of the stance it adopted during the 73-day standoff at Doklam in 2017, when Indian troops dug in and stood their ground in the face of a rapid mobilisation by the Chinese side.Indian and Chinese soldiers are eyeball-to-eyeball at four locations along the LAC and several rounds of talks between local military commanders have failed to end the standoff that began with a violent confrontation between rival patrols three weeks ago near Pangong Lake.Defence minister Rajnath Singh had on Tuesday reviewed the situation in the Ladakh sector of the LAC during a meeting with the CDS and the three service chiefs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-gen-naravane-presides-over-commanders-conference-chinese-aggression-in-lac-on-agenda/story-C0I09eG1LbJknkdzVP0P1K.html
27-05-2020||India||Covid-19: 168 churches in Mizoram offer halls to be used for quarantine facility||With Mizoram facing shortage of quarantine facilities many churches in the Christian majority state have offered their halls to the state government to be used for quarantine purpose.Chairperson of the task group of quarantine facilities Esther Lal Ruatkimi said Mizoram is facing shortage of quarantine facilities as a large number of people are returning to the state from various parts of the country.She said that the government and churches have so far set up more than 500 quarantine facilities to accommodate 14,358 people but the state government require quarantine facility for at least 20,000 people.The task group chairperson said that at least 168 churches from various denominations like Presbyterian Church, Baptist Church of Mizoram (BCM), Salvation Army (SA), Lairam Isua Krista Baptist Kohhran (LIKBK), Evangelical Church of Maraland (ECM), United Pentecostal Church (NEI) and United Pentecostal Church (Mizoram) have offered their halls to be used as quarantine facilities.She said that more than 10,000 stranded people in different parts of the country will return to the state.She thanked churches, village or local level task forces, NGOs and other stakeholders for extending invaluable helps to the government.Meanwhile, an official of the task group on quarantine facilities said at least 2,518 people are currently placed under quarantine across the state.Of these, 1,940 people are quarantined at government designated facilities, 414 at church halls, 163 placed under home quarantine and seven others are lodged at hotel on their own expense, he said.Earlier, state chief secretary Lalnunmawia Chuaungo had said that the government allowed returnees clearing Rapid Antibody Test or permitted and recommended by competent authorities to be placed under home quarantine as the state government does not have enough institutional quarantine facilities to accommodate them all.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-168-churches-in-mizoram-offer-halls-to-be-used-for-quarantine-facility/story-ajbumiBvMtVdsliKk0RyLM.html
27-05-2020||India||IAF operationalises no.18 Squadron, equips it with LCA Tejas||The Indian Air Force (IAF) on Wednesday operationalised its no.18 Squadron, the “Flying Bullets”, at Sulur near here, equipping it with the fourth generation Mk1 LCA (Light Combat Aircraft) Tejas.The indigenous tailless compound delta wing aircraft was inducted at an official ceremony in the presence of Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria at the Sulur Air Force Station.The No.18 Squadron will be the second one to have the home-made Tejas, after the 45 Squadron based here.An all-faith prayer was held and a coconut broken to mark the induction of Tejas today.Watch: ‘Flying Bullets’ operationalised, IAF Chief flies Tejas aircraft The No 18 Squadron, formed in 1965 with the motto “Teevra aur Nirbhaya” meaning “Swift and Fearless,” was earlier flying MiG 27 aircraft.The Squadron “actively participated” in the 1971 war with Pakistan.The Squadron was “resurrected” on April 1 this year at Sulur.Tejas is equipped with fly-by-wire flight control system, integrated digital avionics and multimode radar, while its structure is made of composite material.It is also the “lightest and smallest” in its group of fourth generation supersonic combat aircraft,” a Defence release on Monday said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-to-get-second-indigenous-lca-tejas-fighter-plane-squadron-today/story-g3Y7d9GljNFXNaL3WJaDrJ.html
27-05-2020||India||‘If 9/11 was a new chapter, Covid-19 is a new book’: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Wednesday that the Covid-19 crisis will change the existing structure and order in the world.Globally, the virus is operating at two levels: First, at the healthcare level and secondly, by attacking the global structures. If you look at the places which are most affected, they all are the nerve centres of globalisation. I am convinced that we will have a new world after this. People say 9/11 was a new chapter. Well, this is a new book,” Gandhi said.Gandhi was holding a dialogue on the Covid-19 crisis with global public healthcare expert Dr Ashish Jha and epidemiologist, professor Johan Geisecke of the Karolinska Institute, Sweden.“I have a sense that large urban centres will be hurt badly. People will have to come together and realise that you can’t fight this disease as different communities, different religions or different genders,” said the former Congress president.“We have to prepare ourselves for significant pain,” he added.Speaking on the extreme temperature in India and its effect on the coronavirus, Professor Jha said, “It is not evidence I would bank on.”He also said that the only way to stop the spread of the virus is to increase the testing capacity. The Harvard University professor also dismissed reports that Indians are immune to the virus because of the vaccinations that they get.“I am sceptical that BCG vaccine can act as mediator. There is very less evidence about that, I would not make a policy based on that evidence,” said professor Jha.The conversation is part of a series of dialogues that Gandhi is holding with global and Indian thought leaders to discuss the Covid-19 crisis and its consequences on the Indian economy.Gandhi has previously spoken to Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee and former Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Raghuram Rajan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-9-11-was-a-new-chapter-covid-19-is-a-new-book-rahul-gandhi/story-sD7d8kaDeWlRqTFrG8EInM.html
27-05-2020||India||NCW slams Assam news channel for sacking pregnant journalist||The National Commission for Women (NCW) on Tuesday sought an explanation from an Assamese television news channel for reportedly sacking a women journalist because she was pregnant.Ranjita Rabha, a reporter with more than 13 years of experience, was asked to submit her resignation by authorities at PRAG NEWS earlier this month. Her plea for leave without pay was allegedly turned down by the channel.Reports said that the channel terminated her services as the organisation needed only “agile persons” as reporters and Rabha’s pregnancy restricted her abilities.“Of all the rights of women, one of the rights is motherhood; however, a recent incident from Assam has exposed the double standards of organisations towards its pregnant employees,” a release from the commission said.“The Guwahati-based channel blatantly refused salary to the woman journalist and asked her to put down her papers. The NCW condemns the insensitive attitude of the channel towards its pregnant employee,” it said.The commission said it was “deeply perturbed” by the violation of provisions of the maternity benefit act and directed PRAG NEWS for feedback on the incident at the earliest.The Maternity Benefit (Amendment) Act, 2017, provides for paid maternity leave for women for 12 weeks, in addition to paid leave and extension of leave without pay or work from home facilities.Earlier, the India Journalists Union (IJU) and the Network for Women in Media, India (NWMI) also expressed “deep shock” on Rabha’s removal from her job at PRAG NEWS.“The NWMI is shocked at the blatant disregard for the law by PRAG NEWS. Its contention that the organisation has no provision for paid leave or any other facility for maternity leave is patently illegal and indefensible,” NWMI said in a statement on May 22 urging the channel to reinstate Rabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncw-slams-assam-news-channel-for-sacking-pregnant-journalist/story-kn9geyahPriDhHtyizFaYI.html
27-05-2020||India||‘Need lockdown exit strategy to end uncertainty’: Harvard professor in conversation with Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday held a dialogue with global public healthcare expert Dr Ashish Jha and epidemiologist, Professor Johan Geisecke of the Karolinska Institute, Sweden, on the Covid-19 crisis.“The reason for a lockdown is that you are trying to stop the spread of the virus. Humanity has never seen this virus. This means we are all susceptible, said professor Jha, the director of the Harvard Global Health Institute.“You can slow down the virus through a lockdown, but it has great economic repercussions. But authorities should utilise that time to prepare their testing infrastructure. It’s about planning everything for the time that’s coming,” he added.“Now, when you open the economy, you have to give people confidence. Economy works on confidence,” said professor Jha.Gandhi, who had recently met migrant labourers moving across the country to get to their hometowns during lockdown, shared his thoughts saying the biggest fear they had was uncertainty. Professor Jha agreed and said the government needs to have a strategy for exiting the lockdown.The conversation is part of a series of dialogues that Gandhi is holding with global and Indian thought leaders to discuss the Covid-19 crisis and its consequences on the Indian economy.Earlier this month, he spoke to Nobel Laureate Abhijit Banerjee who said that India should consider a big stimulus and give cash in hand to create demand and prevent chains of bankruptcies to save the economy hit hard by the nationwide coronavirus lockdown.“Spending is easiest way to revive economy. It will have stimulus effect,” Banerjee had said.On April 30, Gandhi was in dialogue with former Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Raghuram Rajan who suggested that the government transfer cash directly to the poor and supply food through the public distribution system (PDS) to as many people as possible to help them tide over the impact of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak and the consequent 40-day lockdown, estimating the effort will cost Rs 65,000 crore.The money is small given that India’s gross domestic product is to the tune of about Rs 200 lakh crore, he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-lockdown-exit-strategy-to-end-uncertainty-harvard-professor-on-covid-19-crisis/story-I9NZFxvgVU3ByjhaNEIKtO.html
27-05-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 150,000-mark, death toll at 4,337||The number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Wednesday crossed the 150,000-mark after 6,387 new infections were reported across the country in the last 24 hours, Union health ministry data showed.This is the sixth day in a row that India has reported more than 6,000 cases of Covid-19. On May 22, 6,088 people tested positive and 6,535 contracted for the respiratory disease on Tuesday.The country’s death toll stands at 4,337 after 170 people died between Tuesday morning and Wednesday morning. There were 64,425 patients who have recovered and sent home so far.Also read| Out of India’s 24-hour Covid-19 total, one-third in Maharashtra: State tallyMaharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Delhi continued to report a rise in Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra’s tally of has reached 54,758 and the death toll due to Covid-19 in the state rose to 1,792.The number of Covid-19 patients in Maharashtra are now doubling over a period of 14 days unlike every three days earlier and the death rate has been brought down to 3.25% from 7.6% in April, the state’s chief secretary Ajoy Mehta has saidTamil Nadu is inching towards the 18,000-mark with 17,728 cases and the southern state’s death toll is at 127, data shows. In Gujarat, 915 people have died and 14,821 people have been infected by Sars-Cov-2, the virus which causes the disease. The national capital of Delhi has witnessed 14,465 infections to date and the number of fatalities due to Covid-19 is 288.The government has said the doubling rate of infection is 13 days as the country entered the tenth day of the fourth phase of the lockdown to curb the spread of the disease.Also read| Covid-19: Bihar closes in on 3,000-mark, capital Patna worst hitThe Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Tuesday removed the price cap of Rs 4,500 on the reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test, billed as the gold standard for detecting the Covid-19. States have been given a free hand to negotiate with the approved laboratories and fix the cost of Covid-19 testing.In a letter written to the states, ICMR director general Dr Balram Bhargava said that as testing capacity and infrastructure had improved significantly since the beginning of the outbreak, the ceiling price fixed earlier was not applicable. With domestic production being ramped up, the dependence on imported testing kits is also negligible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-150-000-mark-death-toll-at-4-337/story-0gXG7t3LwJgurZl7MGUaYM.html
27-05-2020||India||Pakistan new breeding ground of locusts, say experts||Pakistan has become a new breeding ground of desert locusts, entering Rajasthan from adjoining areas in Pakistan, said BR Kadwa, deputy director of the agriculture department.“Swarms of locusts are entering Rajasthan from adjoining areas in Pak every 2-3 days since a month. Pakistan has become the new breeding ground of the locusts and hence we are seeing the repeated attacks of locusts in the state. Four swarms have entered Jaipur recently,” Kadwa told news agency ANI.He further said that fortunately, Rabi crop has been harvested and Kharif sowing season is yet to arrive.The desert locust is one of about a dozen species of short-horned grasshoppers.This swarm originated in the Horn of Africa, where excess rains triggered a breeding boom. According to Indian experts, the swarm entering India now had another round of breeding in Baluchistan, Iran and Pakistan.Locusts entered Rajasthan from Pakistan in April, and then drifted into other parts of western India. They are currently active in Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. Rajasthan is currently the worst-affected state, according to the Union Environment ministry.Adult desert locust swarms can fly up to 150 km a day with the wind and adult insects can consume roughly their own weight in fresh food per day. A single square kilometre swarm can eat as much food in a day as 35,000 people.They feed on nearly all green vegetation - leaves, flowers, bark, stems, fruit, and seeds - and crops including millet, rice, maize, sorghum, sugarcane, barley, cotton, fruit trees, date palm, vegetables, rangeland grasses, acacia, pines and banana.Desert locusts change their behaviour from acting as individuals to becoming part of a group, forming dense and mobile hordes. Swarms can be several hundred square kilometres and extremely dense, with up to 80 million adults in each square kilometre.The last major infestation was in 2003-2005 when more than 12 million hectares were treated in west and northwest Africa, costing hundreds of millions of dollars, including food aid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-new-breeding-ground-of-locusts-say-experts/story-qe5pw1dxpnBdPxZEch5YrL.html
27-05-2020||India||Out of India’s 24-hour Covid-19 total, one-third in Maharashtra: State tally||It was another day of spike for India in Covid-19 cases, which took the nationwide tally to over 1.5 lakh on Wednesday. According to the Union health ministry update, India recorded 6,387 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours (between Tuesday and Wednesday).The number of coronavirus fatalities in the country stands 4,337 while over 64,425 people have successfully recovered from the disease.Delhi reported 412 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday, taking the city’s tally to 14,465 cases. The number of new cases in the state fell below 500 for the first time in a week.Here’s a look at Covid-19 state-wise tally.The worst-hit statesMaharashtraCovid-19 cases in Maharashtra reached 54,758 on Wednesday. Yesterday, the number was 52,667. The state has recorded 1792 deaths so far, highest in the country, while 16,954 have recovered from Covid-19.Tamil NaduThe southern state has the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country with 17,728 coronavirus disease cases so far. While 9,342 people have recovered from the disease here, 127 patients have died.GujaratIn Gujarat, the third worst-hit state by the coronavirus pandemic, the total number of Covid-19 cases reached 14,821 on Wednesday. Gujarat has seen 7,139 people recover from coronavirus while 915 people have died.DelhiThe Covid-19 tally in the national capital has jumped to 14,465. Two hundred and eighty eight people have died from the infection here while 7,223 have made a recovery.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan reached 7,536 on Wednesday. The state has reported 170 fatalities while 4,171 patients have recovered from the infection in the state.Madhya PradeshAs many as 7,024 people have been infected from Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh till date. Three hundred and five people have died from Covid-19 in the state while 3,689 have recovered.Uttar PradeshThe number of Covid-19 positive cases have jumped to 6,548 in Uttar Pradesh. While 3,698 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 170 have died from the infection here.Situation in other statesIn West Bengal, coronavirus cases have crossed the 4,000-mark and are rapidly rising. The number of infected cases in West Bengal reached 4,009 on Monday. There have been 283 deaths and 1,486 recoveries in the state.States with under 3,000 coronavirus cases include Telangana, Odisha, Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Haryana and Bihar.Kerala is approaching the 1,000-mark in the number of Covid-19 cases. On Wednesday, the state’s tally stood at 963.Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Tripura have reported under 500 Covid-19 cases while Goa, Puducherry, Meghalaya and Manipur have less than 100 Covid-19 cases.Union territory of Dadra Nagar Haveli has reported two cases of Covid-19.All coronavirus patients in Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Mizoram have recovered. Arunachal Pradesh has two Covid-19 patients and one of them has recovered.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/out-of-india-s-24-hour-covid-19-total-one-third-in-maharashtra-state-tally/story-yuhqyccY7PG1ZFCFV5dCRP.html
27-05-2020||India||From loud music, to beating utensils and spraying: How farmers are dealing with locust attack||India is battling its worst desert locust outbreak in decades with swarms reported in seven heartland states of the country from north to west, threatening some vegetable and pulse crops.Government officials and farm experts said desert locusts have engulfed around 35,000 hectares in Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh since entering India on April 11. The crop munching insects currently headed to Dausa and Karauli districts in Rajasthan may tilt direction towards Delhi if wind patterns change, experts have warned.Also read: Wind patterns unpredictable, locusts may tilt towards CapitalA swarm can cover a distance of 15 km in a day and one that covers an area of a square kilometre can eat as much food as 35,000 people in terms of weight.Central and state bodies have stepped up efforts to control the menace as it poses crop vulnerability and threat to food safety if the outbreak is not contained.Also read: First major locust attack in Maharashtra since 1993; 3 districts hitHere’s how they are dealing with the locust plague:* The Locust Warning Organisation (LWO) has a ground team of 50 people mainly to monitor and track the swarms. Drones are being used for aerial spraying of Malathion 96, an organophosphate insecticide and a potentially toxic chemical for non-cropped areas. * For areas with agriculture, chlorpyrifos is sprayed by drones, fire brigades and tractor-mounted sprays. * In Madhya Pradesh’s Jabalpur, farmers have arranged water tankers and chemicals for spraying in a bid to drive away locusts from attacking their farms.* Farmers in Budhni and Nasrullaganj areas of Madhya Pradesh’s Sehore district have been beating utensils in a bid to drive away locusts. Disinfectants are also being sprinkled on trees and crops to protect them from locusts in these areas.* In Uttar Pradesh’s Prayagraj district, officials have told farmers that they can scare away locusts by beating tin drums, plates etc. They have also been advised to spray pesticides on their crops to protect them from locusts.* Police have been asked to blow sirens from their vehicles in Prayagraj. * The Agra district administration has deployed 204 tractors equipped with chemical sprays to keep the pests at bay. The Jhansi district administration has directed the fire brigades to remain on standby with chemicals and also to blow sirens to ward off the insects.* In Madhya Pradesh, teams continue to track the swarms wherever they are going and spray chemical over them. * Farmers in Hoshangabad, Raisen, Sehore, Sagar, Chhatapur, Harda and several other districts too beat drums, tin cans, burst firecrackers and even arranged bonfires. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-loud-music-to-beating-utensils-and-spraying-how-farmers-are-dealing-with-locust-attack/story-yxyZU5BqHrnPKtJ0OXcTPN.html
27-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Infighting within Trinamool Congress over Cyclone Amphan relief work and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Infighting in Bengal Trinamool Congress over Cyclone Amphan relief work, Opposition BJP says proves its chargeThe Trinamool Congress (TMC) government in West Bengal is facing flak for the cyclone relief work in the state. And it’s not just the Opposition, even those within the party have raised their voices. Read moreOf the world’s 15 hottest places, 10 are in IndiaOut of the 15 hottest cities in the world in the last 24 hours, 10 were in India with the others in neighbouring Pakistan, according to weather monitoring website El Dorado. Read moreIndia matches up to China’s military in standoff near Karakoram PassIndia has decided to not back down from a standoff with China , along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh, and has moved troops to counter Chinese forces stationed in the region, according to people familiar with the matter who asked not to be named. Read moreMigrant, family survive only on water for 3 daysA migrant worker, his wife and their one-and-a-half-year-old daughter travelled from Mumbai to the village of Jaunpur in Uttar Pradesh (UP), surviving on nothing but water. Read moreOnline masterclasses a boon for boxing coachesSantiago Nieva adjusts the screen on his laptop and steps back. Indian boxing’s high performance director, a diminutive Swedish man who has transformed India’s Olympic boxers since he joined the team in 2017, is standing inside the boxing hall at the National Institute of Sports in Patiala, with two other coaches. Read moreGirija Shankar on playing Dhritrashtra in Mahabharat at age of 28: ‘I trained myself to look straight, was asked to try lenses’Girija Shankar is better known as Dhritrashtra from the hit BR Chopra show, Mahabharat. However, not many know that the actor was just 28 when he played the visually challenged father of the Kaurvas and sported a white beard.  Read moreBlazer and pajamas? Priyanka Chopra’s Zoom meeting look takes ‘business casual’ literallyShowcasing her incredible sense of fashion as well as humour, Priyanka Chopra took to her Instagram account to share her what she wears during a virtual meeting amid the coronavirus pandemic. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-infighting-in-bengal-trinamool-congress-over-cyclone-amphan-relief-work-and-all-the-latest-news/story-yLl0QnOQ1R9SAKImhEgT6H.html
27-05-2020||India||PM Modi pays tribute to Jawaharlal Nehru on his death anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday paid tribute to India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru on his 56th death anniversary.“Tributes to our first PM, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru Ji on his death anniversary,” PM Modi said on Twitter.The Congress too tweeted its tribute for Nehru. “The ‘architect of Modern India’, first & longest-serving Prime Minister Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru’s vision, intellectual calibre, commitment & high ideals have made India the republic it is today. We strive to uphold his inspirational legacy, today & always,” the party said on Twitter.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi called Nehru a freedom fighter and a visionary.“Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru Ji was a brave freedom fighter, the architect of modern India & our first PM. A visionary, he is immortalised in the world class institutions he inspired, that have stood the test of time. On his death anniversary, my tribute to this great son of India,” he said in his tribute posted on Twitter.Nehru was born in Allahabad (now Prayagraj) on November 14, 1889. He died in Delhi on May 27, 1964.One of the principal leaders of the Indian freedom struggle along with Mahatma Gandhi, Nehru became the first prime minister of the country after Independence, a post which he held till his death. He died at the age of 74.Nehru is known as an architect of modern India.He was instrumental in the formation of non-aligned movement in the world leading to the creation of a new world order.Nehru firmly believed and followed the ideals of secularism and socialism in view of the pluralistic character of this nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pays-tribute-to-jawaharlal-nehru-on-his-death-anniversary/story-077yzt7q9rZlmYg7ExNdTN.html
27-05-2020||India||‘Badly-timed, serious infestation’: Official on locust attack||With a locust outbreak ravaging parts of western India, a Union Environment Ministry official said on Tuesday that it was a very badly-timed “serious infestation” that has occurred when the country is already in the middle of a pandemic.“Locusts are a regular feature in the country but this attack is huge. It is a once-in-a-three-decade situation and timed very badly for us as we are already dealing with coronavirus,” Soumitra Dasgupta, Inspector General, Wildlife, Ministry of Environment, told news agency PTI.The locusts are currently active in Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. Rajasthan is currently the worst-affected state, according to the Union Environment ministry.Experts warn that if wind patterns change, the locusts currently headed to Dausa and Karauli districts in Rajasthan may tilt direction towards Delhi. Swarms of the crop destroying insects entered India on April 11. On Monday, parts of Jaipur were overrun by locusts.Scientists at the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the wind patterns have been unpredictable this year on account of the western disturbances over northern India. “At present, the winds in Delhi are blowing from Rajasthan side. This means that the locust attack could hit Delhi. (However) from May 28, the wind pattern might change to easterly,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.Many agriculturists and government officials say that the locusts have changed their pattern and the size of their swarms has increased over the years.“Yesterday night, we have destroyed a swarm of about 6 KM in length and 1 KM in breadth. Locusts have changed their nature and they are flying on heights more than they used to fly. It is becoming difficult for us to control. Still, we are doing our best to control the situation,” said BR Kadwa, deputy director of the agriculture department.Locust swarms have been recorded in the Arabian peninsula and some African countries since biblical times, but unusual weather patterns exacerbated by climate change have created ideal conditions for insect numbers to surge, scientists say.These warms have infested 23 countries across East Africa, the Middle East and South Asia in 2020, the biggest outbreak in 70 years, the World Bank said. Last week, the bank approved a record $500 million in grants and low-interest loans to help countries in Africa and the Middle East fight swarms of desert locusts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/badly-timed-serious-infestation-official-on-locust-attack/story-qMsPoxIVHsNQrXnfDKX8AN.html
27-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Bihar closes in on 3,000-mark, capital Patna worst hit||The total number of coronavirus disease cases in Bihar rose to 2,968 after 231 fresh cases were reported on Tuesday. The disease has claimed 15 lives in the state so far.Patna is the worst-affected district in the state. It reported six fresh cases which took its tally to 217. Among those testing positive, four were personnel of the Bihar Military Police.The second worst-hit district, Rohtas, saw a sudden spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases. It reported 35 cases in a day, and its tally breached the 200-mark. Those testing positive in the district, which has reported a total of 201 cases, included four children under five years of age, the youngest being a one-year-old boy, according to figures made available by the state health department.A boy and a girl, both a year-old, were among 31 people testing positive in the remote north Bihar district of Madhubani, which now ranks third with 176 cases.Significant numbers of cases were also reported from districts like Darbhanga, Banka, Sheikhpura and Kishanganj.In addition to the three worst-affected districts, Begusarai, Munger, Khagaria, Katihar, Buxar and Jehanabad have tallies in three digits. None of the 38 districts in the state has a tally below 10.The latest casualty due to Covid-19 in the state is a 40-year-old man from Nalanda district, who died at a hospital in Pawapuri. He had tested positive for the disease, civil surgeon Ram Singh said on Tuesday. The man had come from Noida on May 20 and and was admitted to a local hospital. He died four days later.Singh said that the deceased had been lodged at a quarantine centre in Bihar Sharif, the district headquarter town, but was rushed to the Pawapuri-based facility upon developing severe symptoms of fever and cough.The results triggered panic in the area with family members refusing to attend the funeral, which was conducted by the administration.The other districts reporting casualties are Patna, Vaishali, Khagaria, Rohtas, East Champaran, Munger, Sitamarhi, Saran and Siwan.The state health department said that 800 people have so far recovered from Covid-19.The migrant workers returning to Bihar from various parts of the country comprise a major chunk of those testing positive, the state administration said.According to Anupam Kumar, Secretary for Information and Public Relations Department, 15.41 lakh migrant workers have come back to Bihar during the lockdown by 1,026 Shramik Specials so far and another 5.29 lakh are scheduled to arrive soon in 321 special trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-bihar-closes-in-on-3-000-mark-capital-patna-worst-hit/story-aWV7kWzo34sHYeqoC2vh7L.html
27-05-2020||India||Over 15,000 pigs dead due to African swine fever in Assam: State minister||Over 15,000 pigs have died due to African swine fever in Assam, said state animal husbandry minister Atul Bora on Tuesday.“African swine fever is increasing day by day. Till today, there have been 15,600 deaths,” Bora told ANI.The minister said that the government has decided on giving certain relaxations in selling and consumption of pork products in the state in a bid to give relief to pig rearers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-15-000-pigs-dead-due-to-african-swine-fever-in-assam-state-minister/story-4c6bSQ3Bl0nALBxksqKoFO.html
27-05-2020||India||Infighting in Bengal Trinamool Congress over Cyclone Amphan relief work, Opposition BJP says proves its charge||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) government in West Bengal is facing flak for the cyclone relief work in the state. And it’s not just the Opposition, even those within the party have raised their voices.State minister Sadhan Pande blamed the TMC-run Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) for “lack of planning” in dealing with the crisis.“Had there been proper planning, the cyclone crisis could have been averted in a much better way. There was no proper planning. None of us was also consulted on how this crisis could be dealt with in a much better way,” Pande said. “Anybody who fails to perform should resign from his post. The chairman of KMC didn’t call any meeting of the MLAs of the city. Firhad Hakim should have consulted his predecessor Sovan Chatterjee,” he alleged.Senior TMC leader and Chairman of Kolkata Municipal Corporation board of administrators Firhad Hakim hit back by saying “it is easy to lecture others by sitting inside AC rooms”.“Why is he criticising now? What was he doing for the last one week? He should have come to KMC with an alternative plan. All of our officials and staff are busy in restoration work because we believe it is easier to criticise than to work,” he said.Cyclone Amphan, which ravaged the state last week, claimed 86 lives and left thousands without power and other basic necessities. Many parts of state capital Kolkata are also without electricity and the residents are protesting against the state administration.A TMC leader was injured in one such protest while trying to persuade the protesters.Residents of Kanchantala locality in the Port area started a road blockade on Tuesday evening as electricity was not restored even six days after cyclone hit the state, police said.They were protesting that when electricity was restored to an adjacent area, why were they not getting it, according to the police.The demonstration soon turned out ugly when Metiabruz MLA Abdul Khaleque Molla intervened and tried to persuade them to stop their protest, a Kolkata Police officer said.It was then when a brick thrown by the protesters hit him on his head. Some of his aides were also injured, the officer said.Meanwhile, Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) welcomed Pande’s statement saying “criticism by a TMC minister only proves the opposition charge of the state government’s failure in dealing with the crisis”.West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Tuesday said the state government should have called the Army much earlier for restoration work in the metropolis and its surrounding areas in the wake of the damage caused by cyclone ‘Amphan’.The state government requested Army support on May 23, three days after the cyclone struck.“The Army should have been called much earlier. Maybe, it was not done due to ego problems,” Ghosh told reporters here.Ghosh also alleged that he was stopped twice while visiting the cyclone-affected people to provide aid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/infighting-in-bengal-trinamool-congress-over-cyclone-amphan-relief-work-opposition-bjp-says-point-proved/story-WumbzWzU0L0dqRxO1hex1N.html
27-05-2020||India||Podcast: Roshan Kishore on India’s flagging economy, the impacts of the lockdown, and the government’s policy response||Two weeks ago, the Modi government announced a series of economic measures intended to get the Indian economy back on track after the country’s prolonged lockdown in the wake of the COVID-19 crisis.Over five days, the Finance Minister addressed a series of daily press conferences in which she outlined the government’s plan of action to assist the country’s poorest citizens, reform the country’s regulatory framework, and stimulate new investment. To break down the meaning of these latest moves, Roshan Kishore, Data and Political Economy editor at the Hindustan Times, joins Milan Vaishnav (Director of the South Asia programme at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace) this week on the show. The two discuss India’s long-term economic downturn, the immediate impacts of the nationwide lockdown, the Modi government’s economic relief package, and the state of the political opposition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/roshan-kishore-on-india-s-flagging-economy-the-impacts-of-the-lockdown-and-the-government-s-policy-response/story-0DxTtmKjd9nJ5dpIpSvyjK.html
27-05-2020||India||Of the world’s 15 hottest places, 10 are in India||Out of the 15 hottest cities in the world in the last 24 hours, 10 were in India with the others in neighbouring Pakistan, according to weather monitoring website El Dorado.Rajasthan’s Churu, about 20km north of state capital of Jaipur, recorded the country’s highest temperature of 50 degrees Celsius on Tuesday.Churu, known as the gateway to the Thar desert, was matched by Jacobabad in Pakistan as the hottest place on Earth on Tuesday. Bikaner, Ganganagar and Pilani were the three other cities from Rajasthan which were on that list.Also read: No homes, and now this heat: No respite for migrant workers in LudhianaTwo cities were from Uttar Pradesh and two from Maharashtra.UP’s Banda and Hisar in Haryana also recorded extreme temperatures of 48 degrees Celsius on Tuesday. The others in the list of hottest cities were New Delhi at 47.6 degrees Celsius, Bikaner at 47.4 degrees Celsius, Ganganagar at 47 degrees Celsius, Jhansi at 47 degrees Celsius, Pilani at 46.9 degrees Celsius, Nagpur Sonegaon at 46.8 degrees Celsius and Akola 46.5 degrees Celsius—both in Maharashtra.Churu recorded the second-highest temperature in May in the last 10 years. Before this, Churu had recorded a temperature of 50.2 degrees Celsius on May 19, 2016, according to the local weather bureau.Churu has witnessed severe heat conditions since May 22 when the highest temperature recorded in the town was 46.6 degrees Celcius. After that it has been increasing every day—it was 46.6 on May 23, 47.4 on May 24 and 47.5 on May 25, the met office said.Two other towns in the state also recorded temperatures beyond 45 degrees Celsius. The highest temperature in Kota and Jaisalmer was 46 degrees, the weather report said.Heatwave conditions in isolated places in Kota and Bundi in eastern Rajasthan and in Bikaner, Churu, Hanumangarh and Sriganganagar in the western part of the state has been forecast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/of-the-world-s-15-hottest-places-10-are-in-india/story-i7z7pGDp8J6Tf9aN6LLg3H.html
27-05-2020||India||Chhattisgarh reports first Covid-19 death after migrant passing through tests positive||A migrant labourer from West Bengal, who died on May 24 in Chhattisgarh’s Durg district, became the state’s first coronavirus disease (Covid-19) victim after his swab samples tested positive on Wednesday.The migrant labourer was travelling from Mumbai to his home state when he died.“A person travelling in a bus from Mumbai to West Bengal was discovered dead when the bus broke down. The body was handled with all due precautions and test samples were taken. The test at AIIMS Raipur has turned out to be positive,” TS Singhdeo, the state’s health minister, tweeted on Wednesday evening.Durg district administration claimed the man was returning to South 24 Parganas in West Bengal from Mumbai in a bus when the bus broke down near Charaudha town.The victim complained of chest pain and later died.“Four other relatives of the victim remained with the deceased and the rest of the migrants were sent to West Bengal after the bus was repaired,” a senior official of the health department said.The administration sent the sample to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Raipur on Monday and the report came on Wednesday.Meanwhile, the relatives of the dead labourer were tested through rapid testing and found negative.“The four relatives are kept in quarantine centre and their samples,” the health official said.Chhattisgarh reported 68 fresh cases of the Covid-19, which is the highest single-day rise so far, on Wednesday.Most of the new patients are either migrant labourers who have recently returned to their home districts from different parts of the country or those who came in their contact.In the last five days, 229 new cases have been detected in the state.There are 361 Covid-19 cases in Chhattisgarh out if which 282 are active and 79 people have been discharged from hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-reports-first-covid-19-death-after-migrant-passing-through-tests-positive/story-EFk4Af8MaoYEVCQhe9tXOO.html
27-05-2020||India||Delhiwale: A tree is reborn||The lockdown has eased. One has to get used to stepping out of the house carefully (gloves and mask) and to get acquainted again with the city’s little nooks and corners, that make up its soul. One such place is a peepal tree near south Delhi’s East of Kailash Enclave, just opposite the new multi-storey police station.The area around the gigantic tree feels like a village square, and it’s easy to imagine its social life unfold throughout the day, with people sitting and gossiping in its shade. A tiny temple is scooped into the peepal’s trunk. The idols of Lord Ganesh and Hanuman are sitting snugly, facing the road that is yet to recover its former traffic.The ground beneath the tree is like a coarsely woven carpet made of tree leaves’ shadows. The mild afternoon breeze is making the shadows flutter, giving a feeling of steady motion, like a softly flowing stream.This is just one aspect of the place.The trunk on the other side has a different kind of shrine. It’s a chai stall and... it’s open. “We restarted just two days ago,” says owner Sant Lal. His kindness can be felt in the tone of his voice—something harder to work out from his masked face (obviously).The establishment has absolutely no frills—just a laminated menu hanging from a branch and a few stoves and kettles. The makeshift character belies the stall’s durability. It has been here since 1985. “I established it after arriving from my village in Jaunpur (UP).”Sitting on a low matted trunk behind his tea stove, Mr Lal wonders if things will get back the way they were before the coronavirus altered the very texture of life.He confesses being anxious about the future, as he tries to reclaim the old days. His masked cooks are making samosas. One is filling the samosa pastry with spiced aloo mash, while the other is deep frying the samosas in the kadahi. A few masked customers are standing about the stall, standing apart from each other.Everything looks like the pre-corona days, except of course for the masked faces. And for the fact that hand sanitiser bottles are prominently placed on a table for customers. There are also white circles drawn about the tree, for customers to obey the precepts of physical distancing.And yet there is something out of the ordinary about this tree refuge. Of course, it’s the temple idols—they are the only faces that aren’t masked.The stall opens daily from 7am to 7pm. Tea is good and samosas delicious.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-a-tree-is-reborn/story-mUdrRQGlXlrbIp3jR7mZiI.html
27-05-2020||India||Wind patterns unpredictable, locusts may tilt towards Capital||Experts warn that if wind patterns change, the locusts currently headed to Dausa and Karauli districts in Rajasthan may tilt direction towards Delhi. Swarms of the crop destroying insects entered India on April 11. On Monday, parts of Jaipur were overrun by locusts. Scientists at the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the wind patterns have been unpredictable this year on account of the western disturbances over northern India. “At present, the winds in Delhi are blowing from Rajasthan side. This means that the locust attack could hit Delhi. (However) from May 28, the wind pattern might change to easterly,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre. “From Jaipur, their current trajectory till Tuesday afternoon was towards Dausa and Karauli districts in Rajasthan. If the wind pattern further changes towards Delhi then these locust swarms may reach the city,” said K L Gurjar, deputy director, Locust Working Organisation.Senior Delhi government officials said that they are waiting for the final alert from the meteorological department and they are ready to tackle the problem. The swarms are capable of covering a distance of 150 km a day and a swarm that covers an area of a square kilometre can eat as much food as 35,000 people in terms of weight. “The preparations demand insecticides to be spread. But it is to be done in the day time after the locusts are seen in an area,” a senior official in the city government’s agriculture department who did not wish to be named said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wind-patterns-unpredictable-locusts-may-tilt-towards-capital/story-k35OwKak8ZWSfZI9blrSRI.html
27-05-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||On Monday, schools in Australia’s New South Wales province officially reopened, signalling a “return to normal” that the country, which has seen around 7,100 coronavirus disease cases and 102 deaths, hopes to achieve in stages by July.On Tuesday, two private schools in Sydney, the state’s biggest and most important city, closed after a student tested positive in each; both schools had already opened last week after the state decided it was alright to do so because the number of cases was declining. To be sure, the response to the schools having to close so soon after opening (and, hopefully, temporarily) has been just what it should be – even, non-hysterical, and pragmatic. The state’s education minister said school closures brought about by students testing positive were “something we are going to have to live with”, according to a report in The Guardian. Four other Australian states, including Queensland, have also resumed face-to-face schooling (as it is now called; another coinage necessitated by the pandemic). On Monday, news agency AP reported Queensland’s premier Annastacia Palaszczuk as saying that “we have to take each day as it comes”.Somehow there’s nothing that quite signals a “return to normal” as well as children attending school does – as parents can vouch, it changes the entire rhythm of households in the morning (and not always for the better, but that’s another story).Denmark reopened schools in April. Japan opened some in May, as did Korea. Even China reopened schools in Wuhan, where it all began, in May.There are reports that India plans to reopen schools in July, at least for some classes. That’s the beginning of the term in some parts of the country (including Delhi). Schools reopen earlier in other parts of the country; in Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, for instance, the school term starts in June, but given the disease burden in these states (Maharashtra has the highest and Tamil Nadu the second-highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country) that seems unlikely.Still, open they will all have to at some time. Online education privileges the privileged and excludes others. Schools and classrooms try to provide as level a playing field as they can (many fail, and that, too, is another story). Sure, interventions are possible; the state can provide devices (tablets or laptop computers) but it cannot ensure that all students are in an environment that is conducive to learning. Schools, good old-fashioned brick-and-mortar schools, with face-to-face schooling, are still the best way to do that.What does science say on pandemics and school closures?A review of epidemiological studies published in BMJ suggests that closing schools does seem to reduce the transmission of influenza. While the coronavirus disease is not the flu, it can be safely assumed that school closure will reduce its transmission too. However, there’s still no authoritative research on the role of children as transmitters of the coronavirus disease. There are papers suggesting that they don’t get infected much; do not show symptoms even if they are; and are not as contagious as adults who are infected – but none of these are established facts as yet. These are important questions to answer – especially knowing that older people are more vulnerable to Covid-19, and that many children in India still continue to live in joint families, or in nuclear families with at least one parent of a parent being a member of the household.And these are just some of the variables administrators and policymakers will have to factor in while taking a call on how and when schools should be reopened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-8pUYrmSWG4FclZoW3iGNFL.html
27-05-2020||India||India, Australia to sign pact at ‘virtual summit’||New Delhi: India and Australia are expected to make bilateral diplomatic history by signing an agreement for reciprocal access to military logistics facilities and other pacts aimed at developing alternative supply chains when the two sides hold their first “virtual summit” on June 4.The summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison, yet to be formally announced, will be held against the backdrop of heightened friction with China for both countries.It will be Modi’s first virtual bilateral summit and the first time several bilateral agreements will be concluded virtually since the Covid-19 outbreak, two people familiar with development said. The Mutual Logistics Support Agreement (MLSA), finalised at the “2+2” or combined dialogue of the foreign and defence secretaries in New Delhi last December, was to be signed during Morrison’s visit in January, which was called off due to the Australian bushfires.With joint exercises and defence cooperation between India and Australia on the upswing, MLSA will remove the need for protracted negotiations for reciprocal access to logistics support every time a manoeuvre is organised, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. It will also improve interoperability between the armed forces of the two sides.Between 2016 and 2019, India has signed similar logistics exchange agreements with the US, Singapore, France and South Korea. While the conclusion of MLSA is significant as the two sides have been negotiating it for some time, there is greater buzz about agreements to be signed in science and technology, research, pharmaceuticals and medical equipment, and rare earth metals and critical minerals which are aimed at creating supply chains in strategic areas that are less dependent on China, the people said.Even before the Covid-19 crisis, the two sides were exploring the possibility of cooperating on rare earth metals such as lithium, neodymium and dysprosium, of which Australia has the world’s sixth largest reserves. More than 90% of India’s imports of rare earth metals, worth $3.4 million in 2016, come from China.The two sides will also look at enhancing their partnership in education as part of measures to shift the focus of Australian universities on the Chinese market, the people said. Prior to the Covid-19 crisis, Australia was home to some 90,000 Indian students.“We’re also looking at agreements in the maritime sphere and water resources and negotiations are underway on some other issues. Research and collaboration on Covid-19 will also figure in the discussions,” said one of the people cited above.Morrison has described India as “a natural partner for Australia”, and Australian high commissioner Barry O’Farrell has said the two sides have had regular discussions about how they can shape the post-Covid world order. In this context, O’Farrell said Australia supports India’s call for reforming the World Health Organization (WHO) after overcoming the Covid-19 crisis.While tensions between India and China are at a high following the standoff between their border troops in Ladakh, Australia’s relations with China too took a hit after Canberra called for an independent investigation into the origins of the Covid-19 pandemic. Nitin Pai, director of the Takshashila Institution, said it made “absolute economic sense” for India and Australia to reduce the risk of their exposure to China even if the two countries were not grappling with tensions with China and the Covid-19 crisis.“It makes a lot of sense to find a diversity of suppliers on one hand, and to find a diversity of customers for products on the other,” he said, adding the existing geopolitical risks, the pandemic, and travel restrictions make it vital not to put all eggs in one basket and to build a diversity of economic partnerships.On Tuesday, defence minister Rajnath Singh tweeted that he had spoken on telephone with his Australian counterpart Linda Reynolds and discussed the response of both sides to the Covid-19 pandemic and possible areas of cooperation.“India-Australia strategic partnership provides a good base for both the countries to work together in dealing with the post COVID challenges. We are committed to take forward the initiatives of bilateral defence and security cooperation under the Strategic Partnership framework,” Singh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-australia-to-sign-pact-at-virtual-summit/story-E7bMfB8uYTyFMqb3MhlG4I.html
27-05-2020||India||Apni Party-led new advisory council likely in J&K||Speculations are rife in Jammu and Kashmir about the Centre setting up an advisory council led by Altaf Bukhari in early June as an alternative political front.Apni Party leaders, however, said they discussed the matter last at the March meeting of the party leadership with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah to test political waters before Covid-19 struck. It’s not clear whether it is going to take shape or not.The top leaders of Apni Party, including Altaf Bukhari, are silent on the new advisory council, but the leaders who met both the Prime Minister and home minister in New Delhi in March said that the prospect of an interim government was discussed at the time.Political activities came to standstill after a lockdown was enforced across the country, including J&K, to slow the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid19).A senior Apni Party leader and former legislator who was part of the delegation that met Modi and Shah in March confirmed that the prospect of setting up an interim government in J&K before the elections was discussed. “This could be on the table as an option in New Delhi, but council members taking an oath in the first week of June is just a rumour,’’ the former PDP leader said, adding that New Delhi now feels that bureaucrats have failed miserably in J&K and that an advisory council led by a senior politician could help remedy the situation. “This time, there is a political vacuum in J&K and many leaders in New Delhi think that new leadership could act as a buffer between J&K and New Delhi, as Delhi is being blamed for everything wrong in Kashmir and there is visible anger on ground,’’ he said. Another former legislator who resigned from the Congress and joined the Altaf Bukhari-led Apni Party said that it was ambiguous whether the interim setup discussed between the Apni Party leadership and New Delhi had been cleared by the Centre, as everyone was now busy fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. He, however, added that speculations could be true. “Under the Union Territory (UT) model of Pondicherry, the President of India has powers to appoint a council which can function in a UT. That can be the case for our UT as well.’’BJP state spokesman Altaf Thakur termed this a mere rumour spread by politicians. “There is no provision in the constitution which allows the setting up of any advisory council in the UT,’’ he said, adding that those who are being tipped to be part of the new ‘advisory council’ have themselves denied it. J&K Pradesh Congress president Ghulam Ahmad Mir said that BJP government had taken several unconstitutional and undemocratic steps in the last one year and bifurcated the state into small pieces. “We can expect anything from them, but the 12.5 million people of J&K have not endorsed that decision and won’t endorse this as well.’’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apni-party-led-new-advisory-council-likely-in-j-k/story-nKsq46Tqxep85IUdTiKheO.html
27-05-2020||India||Nearly 200k in Assam affected due to floods||With continued rainfall in northeastern parts of the country on account of Cyclon Amphan, the Central Water Commission has sounded a flood alert even as nearly 2 lakh people have been affected by flooding in 229 villages in seven districts of Assam.Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) said that villages in 17 revenue circles of Dhemaji, Lakhimpur, Darrang, Nalbari, Goalpara, Dibrugarh and Tinsukia have been affected by floods and nearly 9,000 villagers have been moved to 35 relief camps set up in some of these districts. Around 1007 hectares of fields have been submerged and 16,500 domestic animals and poultry have been already affected, the ASDMA report stated.The Central Water Commission (CWC) has issued a severe flood situation alert for the Brahmaputra in Assam’s Neamati Ghat and Jiabharali in Jorhat and Sonitpur districts, respectively. The highest flood level for the Brahmaputra in the Jorhat stretch is 87.37 metres and the current level is 85.78 metre according to the bulletin issued on Tuesday. In Jiabharali, the highest flood level is 78.5 metres and the current level is 77.36 metres.Beki in Barpeta, Lohit in Tinsukia and the Dibrugarh stretch of the Brahmaputra and many of its tributaries have also recorded above-normal flood levels.Incessant rainfall in Arunachal Pradesh led to a landslide at Arzoo village in Dibang Valley district, killing three members of a family. Chief Minister Pema Khandu announced ex-gratia of Rs 4 lakh each to next of kin of the deceased persons. District officials have also been asked to move people to safer areas.IMD in its Tuesday bulletin said that heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely over parts of Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura over the next five days. “Cherrapunji has received 1,105 millimetres of rain in the last four days. We’re still compiling the data, which is a departure from normal. There’ll be more flooding in the region, as rains are not likely to stop for the next few days. But the intensity of rainfall may reduce after two-three days. Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura will experience rainfall soon,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology and climate, Skymet Weather.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-200k-in-assam-affected-due-to-floods/story-QkKci8hxJxeBRyNOS1xHzK.html
27-05-2020||India||Cabby’s Rs 4 lakh traffic challan exposes glitches||New Delhi Mehboob Ali, a taxi driver, has been running in and out of the Delhi Traffic Police headquarters for three days. On Friday, he got a traffic ticket asking him to pay a fine of Rs 4 lakh. The notice said that he was being censured for a host of violations — speeding (Rs 2,000), rash and negligent driving (Rs 5,000), not driving within his lane (Rs 1,000) and jumping a red light (Rs 1,000).Though he was charged with multiple offences, Ali says the fine amount should have been Rs 9,000 (if the prescribed fines for the violations is added up), and not Rs 4 lakh.Ali, whose challans were based on camera-based traffic tickets issued during the lockdown, is not the only one who has complained to the traffic police’s notice department that they are being charged exorbitant amounts for violations and being provided inadequate or incorrect evidence due to alleged glitches in the automated system.Between January and March, 113 of all e-challans issued in Delhi were accepted for “review” (in other words, it was found that there was come discrepancy in them), out of over 1.5 million challans that were issued in the period. Since May 13, when a virtual court was set up to clear challans and examine complaints, 1,528 e-challans have been reviewed in 12 days (till May 25), out of nearly 18,000 that have been admitted in virtual courts.“On Monday, I visited the traffic police headquarters for the third time to clarify that there has been some mistake. The fine amount is too high and I will not be able to afford to pay this much money,” said Ali, who will contest the amount in the virtual court that is presided over by district judges.According to two officials from the Delhi Traffic Police’s notice department who asked not to be named, the apparent glitches thrown up by the automated system fall into four broad categories: one, a single photo is shared as evidence for an offence but challans for multiple violations are issued against it; the vehicle sent as evidence does not match the one being fined; the fine amount adds up to a much more than the sum total of the challans; and the same challan notice is issued multiple times.Joint commissioner of police (traffic) Narendra Singh Bundela said more camera-based fined were being issued to avoid physical proximity between drivers and traffic officials during the Covid-19 pandemic.“We have shifted our strategy from physical enforcement to electronic enforcement in order to protect the health of our personnel and the public. We had come up with the concept of virtual courts to strengthen the system for camera-based prosecutions,” Bundela said.But the system, according to some of the complainants, may not be without its problems.Sunil Saxena, a resident of south Delhi’s East of Kailash, says he started going back to work after the lockdown last Monday, and his first week on the road, received fine demand of Rs 1.23 lakh.“I checked the traffic police website and the proof of the violation is not even my car. I have ‘not accepted’ the fine on the website, but have been asked to come with my drivers’ licence and the vehicle documents within the next 60 days,” said Saxena.Though the increase in the number of people contesting their fines has raised questions about the camera-based challan system as a whole, the traffic police department says the problems are still a small percentage of the total fines issued, and that violations are verified multiple times by a team of traffic officials at the control room.Since March 25, traffic police have issued 100,436 e-challan notices through SMS, and 80 through speed posts. How many of these have been challenged was not immediately available from the traffic police’s notice department.Hardyal Singh, traffic engineering expert from IIT-Delhi, said that since if an integrated traffic management system was in place in the city, such discrepancies could have been avoided.“Delhi has been talking about an integrated traffic management system for traffic prosecutions for many years now, but we are still struggling with basics such as camera installations. However, now that the police is moving towards tech based prosecutions even though it is facing some initial teething problems, it will set the base for a strong prosecution system,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabby-s-rs-4-lakh-traffic-challan-exposes-glitches/story-imtmliXnrrPkVoNIJBEd3J.html
27-05-2020||India||47.6°C: Delhi sizzles on hottest May day in years||Delhi sizzled on Tuesday, recording the highest temperatures in May in at least a decade at the Palam weather station and 18 years at Safdarjung station, under the influence of dry northwesterlies. It is likely to stay hot till the latter part of the week when a western disturbance could bring some rain — and respite from the heat. Back in 2010 in Palam and 2002 in Safdarjung, the same temperatures were recorded — 47.6 degree Celsius (C) in the former and 46 degree C in the latter. To find a higher temperature than those measured on Tuesday, one would have to go back to 1998. The temperatures come on the back of an exceptionally pleasant April in the capital; even the first half of May saw maximum temperatures well below normal in the city. Delhi does get hotter (sometimes), but only in June. Palam’s 47.6 degree C, was 6 degrees above normal and fell in the severe heat wave category; Safdarjung’s 46 degree C was 6 degrees above normal and bordered on the severe heat wave criteria. Churu in Rajasthan recorded the highest temperature in the country at 50 degree C.Last year, Palam recorded its hottest June day ever with a temperature of 48-degree C, only half a degree C above Tuesday’s maximum.The all-time high in May in Safdarjung was recorded on May 29, 1944 — 47.2 degree C and the highest ever for Palam was recorded in 1998 at 48.4-degree C. Safdarjung recorded 46.5 degree C in 1998- and 46-degree C, in 2002. Palam also recorded 47.6 degree C, in 2010, the same as Tuesday.Churu in Rajasthan recorded 50 degree C, seven degrees above normal and the highest in the past four years. Severe heat wave conditions were reported from west Rajasthan, west Madhya Pradesh, south Haryana, Delhi, south Utter Pradesh, north Madhya Pradesh and Vidarbha. Ganganagar in Rajasthan recorded 47 degree C, Bikaner, also in Rajasthan, recorded 47.4 degree C, Hisar in Haryana, 48 degree C, and Banda in UP, 48 degree C — all in the severe heat wave category.There are two criteria for recording heat waves: a maximum temperature of at least 40 degree C which is 4.5 degree C to 6.4-degree C higher than the usual; or a maximum temperature of at least 45 degree C for two stations in a sub-division for two consecutive days. A severe heat wave is declared when the maximum temperature is at least 40 degree C and the departure from normal is more than 6.4 degree C or the actual maximum temperature is more than 47 degree C.Due to dry, north-westerly winds over plains of northwest India, Central India and adjoining interior parts of eastern India, present heat wave conditions are likely to continue for the next two days, IMD said in a statement adding that severe heat wave conditions are likely over pockets of Vidarbha on May 27, and the heat wave will continue over parts of Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and East Madhya Pradesh on May 26 and 27.Under the influence of a western disturbance and formation of east-west trough (area of low pressure) in lower levels, rain and thunderstorms are likely in many parts of northwest India on May 28 and 29 following which heat wave conditions will abate.“Super cyclone Amphan sucked out all the moisture from other parts of the country and very dry, northwesterly winds from land side was blowing over northwest India. Plus, we had clear skies and direct sunshine which also led to the peaking of maximum temperatures. There was no intense western disturbance which could change this kind of wind pattern or cause clouding. We can expect some relief in Delhi from May 29,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre. The minimum temperature at Safdarjung on Tuesday morning was 28.2 degree C and Palam, 29.1 degree C. According to National Disaster Management Authority’s guidelines for preparation of heat action plan released in 2017, heat waves have caused 25,716 deaths between 1992 and 2016 across various states. “It is likely that the number of actual heat wave related deaths is much higher than the number reported as heat related illnesses are often recorded inaccurately and figures from rural areas are hard to attain. The combination of exceptional heat stress and a predominantly rural population makes India vulnerable to heat waves. Vegetable vendors, auto repair mechanics, cab drivers, construction workers, police personnel, road side kiosk operators and mostly weaker sections of society are extremely vulnerable to the adverse impacts of heat waves such as dehydration, heat and sun strokes,” the guidelines say.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/47-6-c-delhi-sizzles-on-hottest-may-day-in-years/story-qxK0ewuP9hxBFnbsPW1BZM.html
27-05-2020||India||Jyoti Kumari starts cycling trial training||DARBHANGA: A 15-year-old girl, who cycled 1,200 km from Gurugram to Darbhanga in Bihar with her ailing father during the ongoing national lockdown, has started training at the Cycling Federation of India (CFI) .Jyoti Kumar hit the national headlines after Ivanka Trump tweeted about her. Kumari caught the attention of CFI chairman Onkar Singh, who extended an invitation to participate in trial next month as a precondition to clear her selection as a trainee under the aegis of the National Cycling Academy, New Delhi.A native of Sirhulli village in Darbhanga, Kumari said on Tuesday that she started practising since Monday. Kumari, who had earlier expressed hesitation about accepting the offer, asserted that she had no second thoughts about accepting the CFI offer anymore. “ I will participate in trial when they (CFI) call me and fix a date for the trial next month”, she said. Kumari claimed she rode a racing cycle (to practice for trial) gifted to her recently.Meanwhile, state food and consumer protection department minister and JD-U leader Madan Sahni paid a visit to Sirhulli village on Monday. He felicitated Kumari while promising her help on behalf of the state government. However, he was criticised for violating the lockdown. Earlier, BJP MLA Sanjay Sarawai also presented her with gifts and a bicycle. Kumari’s 14-day home quarantine period is not over as she had arrived in the village in the night of May 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jyoti-kumari-starts-cycling-trial-training/story-Kbbs1k4K7Rl1N5aSjibdaI.html
27-05-2020||India||HT Salutes: Mumbai’s autodriver sets up community kitchen in Covid-affected area||Cheetah Camp is home to nearly 15,000 dwelling units spread across one kilometer-square in Mumbai’s M-East ward that was once ranked the lowest among all city wards in the Mumbai Human Development Report brought out by the United Nations Development Programme. A decade later, the ward — spread across Govandi, Shivaji Nagar and Mankhurd — is still majorly populated by slums, and is witness to some of the highest incidences of coronavirus infection.While things may not have changed in terms of the human development indices, Cheetah Camp’s residents know how to bail each other out in tough times.In the past two months of the national lockdown, as employment opportunities have dried up for the slum’s migrant worker and labourer residents, 35-year-old autorickshaw driver Salim Shaikh set up a community kitchen that prepared meals for at least 250 to 300 residents every day.Putting together the kitchen was the least of the problems, he said.“We got funds from some people, some gave us ration and we got utensils from those in the catering business to set up this kitchen,” he said. The trouble was that Shaikh had never tried his hand at cooking before. The lockdown made him into one: he learnt to cut vegetables and plan meals and assist his friend Abdullah, who would do the most of the cooking. Another friend Shakir Shaikh, who owns a small shop in the area, would also offer help.Set up in the chota maidan of sector D — a small field in the Camp where tents would come up during weddings or festivals — the kitchen begins operations at 2 pm. At least 20 residents of the Camp are involved: some like Shaikh chop vegetables; others sift out the ration available for that day; still others plan the meal. By 5.30 pm, the stoves are fired up, and everything from pulao to khichdi to egg curry is prepared. By 8 pm, the food is ready for packaging in plastic bags, which are then distributed among the residents by volunteers.During the month of Ramzan, which culminated Monday with the festival of Eid, special treats like ragda and bhajiyaas were prepared for iftaar.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has also supplied at least 300 food packets daily since March. As a result, Shaikh decided to keep the kitchen for evening meals. He has been an auto-driver for six years and lives in Cheetah Camp — named, according to historian Deepak Rao, after the Indian naval ship Cheetah, in the 1960s —lives with his wife, parents, grand-parents and sister in the Camp.“People don’t know how long the lockdown will continue. They have suffered losses in their businesses also,” Shaikh said.“An area in the camp where most migrant workers used to live is almost empty now. Many have left and most are planning to leave,” Shaikh said.Several migrant workers from Mumbai have left for their villages in states like Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, even as the number of cases in the city has crossed 30,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-s-autodriver-sets-up-community-kitchen-in-covid-affected-area/story-6j5hsjeu68JQFi8oAeN3NI.html
27-05-2020||India||Sharp drop in vegetable prices as buyers stay in||Cherries for Rs 30/lg wholesale in Shimla; the fruit of the season, mango, for Rs 25/ kg wholesale in Uttar Pradesh’s Saharanpur; and tomato for Rs 10/ kg wholesale in Bengal’s Siliguri . The prices of fruits and vegetables in wholesale markets over the past week highlights the steep fall in the price of farm produce in the face of a drop in consumer demand during the lockdown imposed to curb the coronavirus pandemic, experts said. No rebound is likely in the coming weeks and months, they added. “Demand is at rock bottom,” said Devendra Sharma, a Chandigarh-based independent farm expert. “The biggest consumer of the perishable products is the hospitality industry, other than individuals. There are no signs of the industry opening soon. And when it opens, there will not be many customers. So, I don’t expect the demand to improve dramatically in the coming months.”.India expects a bumper production of fruits and vegetables because of an above-normal 2019 monsoon and good winter rainfall. The agriculture ministry’s advance horticulture produce estimate was 313.5 million tonnes for the 2020 season, the highest in five years.The absence of bulk purchases during the lockdown enforced on March 25, which shut public eateries and confined residents indoors, has dented overall demand.“Even households are not buying in huge quantities because of the fear of infection. And there are not many signs of prices reviving soon enough to last year’s level,” said KK Sarangi, an agricultural economist in Odisha University of Agriculture and Technology.New horticulture crops typically start arriving in the markets from March -end . The lockdown took public transport for non-essential goods off the roads, impeding their transport to the markets this year. As the government eased transport norms, some big vegetable wholesale markets including Asia’s biggest fruit and vegetable market at Azadpur in New Delhi and Koyambedu in Chennai were closed because they turned into Covid hot spots.“Nobody (truckers) is willing to take my cherry produce to Delhi or Chandigarh,” said Surinder Singh Bragta after selling his best quality produce for Rs 30 a kilogram in Shimla’s wholesale fruit market. “Last year, I sold similar quality cherry for Rs 100 a kilogram in Chandigarh. I don’t know what will happen to pears and apples which could be harvested in the nest few months. Commission agents are saying this will be worst year for fruits as demand is low.” More than 2,000 kilometers away in Madhya Pradesh’s Neemuch district, Tarun Baheti, a vegetable farmer, said there were no buyers in the market other than local traders. “After so many years, we had a good crop of vegetables. But no one is willing to pay the right price.” “Due to lockdown restrictions, we cannot take the produce to bigger markets. Ladies’ finger (okra) bottle gourd, sponge gourd used to be sold for a maximum of Rs 40 to Rs 50 per kg in the last season but now the rate has come down to about Rs 15 per kg in the wholesale market. Pumpkin is being sold at Rs 5 to Rs 10 per kg,” he added. In Uttar Pradesh’s Barabanki district, Ram Saran Verma, a farmer who has won the Padma Shri award for work in agriculture, said wholesale markets were empty in what has been a good harvest season. “There are no buyers. Even the cost to transport the produce to market is not being recovered,” he said. Another Barabanki farmer, Dinesh Rawat, said he lost Rs 1 lakh in May alone because he was not able to transport his cucumber produce to Lucknow, Sultanpur and Agra. “I had to sell it at a local mandi for whatever price it fetched,” he said. In some states such as Bihar, Odisha and Uttar Pradesh, there have been reports of farmers throwing away their produce. Verma said most farmers already lost money this year and either threw away their produce or fed it to cattle. “This year we left the produce in the field itself as there is no point in selling ladies’ finger for Rs 2 per kg” said Bechan Yadav, a farmer in rural Patna. Mritunjay Kumar, a farmer of Sohsarai in Nalanda district, said the cost of transporting the vegetables to the market was more than the selling price. “It is better to give vegetables to cattle, at least they will get some nutrition,” he said. In Odisha’s Dhenkanal district, the pumpkin harvest is rotting in the farms. Manas Barik, who harvested three tonnes of pumpkins on five acres of land in Dhenkanal, said he found no takers for his produce. “The traders want us to sell pumpkin at Rs 5 a kg. It does not cover even transport cost.” The distress is visible in fruit markets, too. In Gaddiannaram fruit market at Kothapet in Hyderabad, Telangana’s largest fruit and vegetable wholesale market, the prices are the lowest in years. “For the last four years, the price of mangoes was between Rs 60,000 to Rs 1.20 lakh per tonne depending on the variety. This year, it is Rs 20,000 to Rs 30,000 per tonne,” said Telangana Fruit Merchants’ Association president Ashok Kumar. He said the prices of sweet lime (mosambi) had come down from Rs 50,000 a tonne to less than Rs 20,000 a tonne. “There is essentially no demand,” Kumar added Some are and hoping things will be normal after Lockdown 4.0 ends on May 31.“We hope that the farmer may start getting decent price from August onwards,”said Patna district agriculture officer Rakesh Ranjan.Officials at the Karnataka Horticulture Producers Co-operative Marketing and Processing Society (HOPCOMS) claimed that prices have recovered in the past one week with the easing of lockdown norms.“Prices of vegetables like onion, potato and others are more stable than the easier perishables such as greens, beans, tomato, capsicum, cucumber which wilt in the summer sun,” said a HOPCOMS official who requested anonymity.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharp-drop-in-vegetable-prices-as-buyers-stay-in/story-e0TrkYrB80a2bfl7RB2rRI.html
27-05-2020||India||2 months on, lockdown has failed in its purpose: Rahul Gandhi||New Delhi: Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said the four phases of the nationwide lockdown have failed to contain the Covid-19 pandemic and claimed that the tally of cases is rising sharply, drawing a sharp and swift riposte from the government that he is politicising the public health crisis.Gandhi also reiterated that the coronavirus disease outbreak and lockdown have multiplied the unemployment problem and forced many small and medium businesses to go bankrupt.In his fourth video news conference since the nationwide lockdown came into effect on March 25, Gandhi urged the Centre to spell out its strategy for opening up the country. The current phase of the lockdown will end on May 31.“On March 24, the Prime Minister said the war against the coronavirus would be won in 21 days. Sixty days later, it is now clear that the lockdown has not been able to defeat the virus. Its aim and purpose have failed,” Gandhi said.Maintaining that the number of new cases in many areas around the country is increasing exponentially, the Congress Lok Sabha member said it was clear that the Prime Minister and his advisors had underestimated the scale of the battle against the viral disease.“The Prime Minister was quick to take centre-stage in the early stages of this battle. But now, when his leadership is most needed, he has stepped back,” Gandhi said.The government denied Gandhi’s claims. “He (Gandhi) gave a wrong statement. I want to tell him, when the lockdown was imposed the doubling rate of infection was three days; now the infection takes 13 days to double. This is India’s success and everyone’s success,” Union minister for information and broadcasting Prakash Javadekar said.The Congress leader also urged the Centre to inform the country about its exit strategy from the lockdown. The country risks facing a second wave of the pandemic which will be “extremely devastating” if the strategy is haphazard, he warned.On the crisis of migrants who have left the cities and are headed to the hinterland in an exodus triggered by the pandemic and the lockdown , Gandhi said the workers he met told him that they had lost faith in the state and again urged the government to announce an immediate cash transfer of Rs 7,500 to them.“They have a sense of hopelessness, they have been left alone. They have told me ‘hamara bharosa toot gaya’ (we have lost faith). I don’t like hearing those words. I don’t want a single Indian person to say those words. They are saying it more and more. Nobody should lose their faith,” he added.Javadekar countered the charge that the government failed to address the concerns of the migrant workforce and said 300,000 workers had been safely transported in 3,000 special trains, and claimed that Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka (both ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party) had given money to migrant workers. The former Congress chief, who called for monetarily empowering the states to fight the battle against the coronavirus, said if money is not put in the hands of the poor and small and medium industries, there could be “serious economic damage”. He asked the government how it planned to support the migrants and the states in dealing with the crisis.“We need an injection of money and capital. It will be fatal if we do not do it. The unemployment situation in the country has been compounded by the coronavirus problem,” he added.Asked if it was a mistake to prioritise health over the economy, the Congress leader said: “I don’t think it is either health or economy. We are smart enough and intelligent enough that we work out a path that will create a successful compromise between health and economy. However, India has been facing a very serious unemployment problem and this is not new.”Political analyst A Narayana of the Bengaluru-based Azim Premji University said Gandhi had once again stressed the need for putting money in the hands of the people to help them tide over the crisis.“He has also drawn the nation’s attention to the fact that the Centre is not financially helping states which are desperately trying to balance between tackling the pandemic and addressing its economic fallout. Possibly, Gandhi should do more than merely addressing press conferences to put pressure on the government,” he added.In his video conference, Gandhi also addressed the current tensions between Indian and Chinese troops across the Line of Actual Control“What we would like to see is some more transparency on what is going on. It becomes difficult for us to have a position without understanding the facts. I think the government should make it clear to the people of India what exactly is happening on the border,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-months-on-lockdown-has-failed-in-its-purpose-rahul/story-iSXi6aWnIDeFaq7ZcdO8PJ.html
27-05-2020||India||President Kovind yet to approve labour law changes||The Union labour ministry is examining a set of radical changes made by Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat to their labour laws, including moves to freeze them altogether, and may suggest several modifications because some changes could be against “acceptable norms”, a government official said, asking not to be identified. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled states passed ordinances to give effect to various changes, some of which effectively suspend labour laws. None of the ordinances has received approval from President Ram Nath Kovid, according to people with knowledge of the matter. Madhya Pradesh sent its ordinance for the president’s approval on May 18. The UP government sent its ordinance soon after the state’s governor Anandiben Patel approved it on May 14. Gujarat too sent its soon after the state’s governor Acharya Devvrat gave his nod. Under the Constitution, labour falls under the concurrent list, which means the Union government and states have joint jurisdiction. Therefore, changes by state need to be ratified by at the federal level. “The main concern is violation of accepted universal norms. Industrial dispute resolution mechanisms, compensation etc are important considerations. Can you simply suspend all labour laws? Legal views matter in this,” the official cited in the first instance added, without elaborating. Uttar Pradesh suspended key labour laws for all units for three years on May 6 through an ordinance. Madhya Pradesh announced on May 7 it was taking a similar course to put all labour laws on hold for new units, barring some provisions of the Factories Act, 1948, for the next 1,000 days.This changes signalled the start of an experiment to remove rigidities in the country’s labour markets and stringent rules on hiring and firing, as global companies start shifting their supply chains away from China and reduce their dependencies on factories in the neighbour. Five other states -- Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Assam and Odisha -- have increased working hours from 8 hours to 12 hours a day for three months. Rajasthan too extended work hours, but rescinded it . However, the moves drew criticism from labour experts, who say suspending the laws not just eased regulation but infringed on workers’ rights. The labour ministry is examining whether the changes impact conventions of the International Labour Organisation (ILO). Ten central trade unions wrote to the Geneva-based ILO, stating that changes in labour laws by these states violate workers’ rights and ILO convention No 144, to which, India is a signatory. ILO convention 144 enjoins signatories for tripartite consultations among government, employers and workers.“The moves to simply suspend labour laws effectively brings the North American hire-and-fire model to the Indian hinterland economy. However, they will also lead to a basic violation of universal workers’ rights,” said economist KR Shyam Sundar of the Xavier Labour Relations Institute, Jamshedpur. The ILO has said it was deeply anguished by the move and issued an appeal to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 25. ““Please allow me to assure you that the ILO director general has immediately intervened, expressing his deep concern at these recent events and appealing to the prime minister to send a clear message to central and state governments to uphold the country’s international commitments and encourage engagement in effective social dialogue,” an ILO letter addressed to the trade unions stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prez-yet-to-approve-labour-law-changes/story-Gq45G2x8VTpmLNCNRlhMkO.html
27-05-2020||India||Congress plans online protest demanding aid for migrants||In the absence of mass protests amid social distancing norms during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, the Congress has shifted gears to open online fronts. The opposition party is planning to hold an online nationwide protest on Thursday to put pressure on the Centre to accept its demands for providing immediate financial assistance to farmers, migrant workers, daily wage earners and small businesses hit by the pandemic.In a letter to all state unit chiefs, Congress general secretary incharge (organisation) KC Venugopal has asked them to mobilise around 5 million participants on all social media platforms to register their protest and highlight the “sufferings” of migrant workers, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) and other distressed sectors.The online campaign will run from 11am to 2pm. “As you know, lakhs of migrant workers, farmers, workers in the un-organized sectors, MSMEs, small scale businesses, fishermen and daily wage earners are in grave distress. They are struggling, without money, food, job and other essentials items,” the letter read.“For over two months now, since the nationwide lockdown began, our nation’s soul has been pained by the pictures and videos of our migrant workers desperately trying to get back to their hometowns and villages. From walking hundreds of kilometres on our highways to packing into trucks, trailers and every form of transport available, many of them have died on their long journey,” it added.In the letter, Venugopal also said the Congress has been undertaking relief efforts and providing all possible support to migrant workers. “Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi have been giving suggestions to the central government to alleviate the sufferings of our migrant workers, farmers and daily wage earners. But instead of providing support, the central government continues to ignore the plight of them and has failed to take any meaningful measures.”Venugopal has also asked the state unit chiefs to ensure the participation of over 5 million workers and “sympathisers” in the campaign to be run on different social media platforms such as Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and YouTube.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-plans-online-protest-demanding-aid-for-migrants/story-s3z6bOvK7ndWFIpzpchnUN.html
27-05-2020||India||Air operations smooth on Day 2, 1 flyer tests +ve||After the resumption of domestic flights the previous day following a two-month suspension was marred by confusion and cancellations amid the reluctance of some states to allow inbound travel,operations on Tuesday were smooth, with airports handling 325 departures and 283 arrivals till the evening civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri said.Around 41,673 passengers had flown until Tuesday evening, Puri said, the day after the suspension imposed for the coronavirus lockdown ended. “Airports are abuzz, and passengers are back in the air. Operations have started in Andhra Pradesh from today. These numbers are all set to soar higher,” the minister said, adding that a final report on the how the day’s flight operations went will be prepared after details come in at Tuesday midnight.On Monday, more than half the expected 1,100 flights had to be cancelled as airlines had to reconcile to the varying public health rules of various states and rework their flight schedules. According to civil aviation ministry’s data, 428 flights departed on Monday ferrying 30,550 passengers. There were 404 arrival flights, which means 24 flights had departed just before midnight and would have arrived on Tuesday morning. The maximum number of flights took off from Karnataka with 67 flights ferrying 5,602 passengers of which 60 flights were from Bengaluru alone. The states agreed with the Centre on Sunday to allow a graded reopening of flight operations after putting in place local measures to quarantine and isolate passengers to avoid a spiralling of Covid-19 infections. The number of flights operating across airports were capped, with the Centre allowing only a third of domestic operations.Flights to and from West Bengal will resume on May 28 and those operating from Andhra Pradesh were scheduled to commence from Tuesday while Maharashtra allowed a limited number of flights to depart and arrive in Mumbai. According to the civili aviation ministry, 38 flights departed from Maharashtra on Monday, ferrying 5,124 passengers; they included 24 flights from Mumbai. One hundred and eleven flights took off from Delhi with 8,168 passengers.Concerns over the possible spread of the coronavirus disease following the resumption of domestic travel have been rife. On Monday, a passenger flying on an Indigo flight from Chennai to Coimbatore was found Covid-19 positive. “We received confirmation from the Coimbatore airport doctor that a passenger who travelled on 6E 381 from Chennai to Coimbatore on 25th May evening, has tested positive for COVID-19. He is currently quarantined at ESI state medical facility at Coimbatore. He was seated on-board the aircraft with all precautionary measures including face mask, face shield and gloves, as were the other passengers. Additionally, no one else was seated in his vicinity, significantly reducing the possibility of transmission,” Indigo said in a statement on Tuesday. “All our aircraft are regularly sanitised as a standard operating procedure, and the aircraft operating this flight was also immediately disinfected as per protocol. The operating crew has been grounded for 14 days and we are in the process of notifying other passengers as per the government guidelines, to ensure safety of our passengers and staff,” it added.The two-month suspension of flights has already left the civil aviation sector, globally and in India, reeling. According to the International Air Transport Association (IATA) the airline industry’s global debt could rise to $550 billion by the year-end. That’s a $120 billion increase over debt levels at the start of 2020.“A tough future is ahead of us. Containing COVID-19 and surviving the financial shock is just the first hurdle. Post-pandemic control measures will make operations more costly. Fixed costs will have to be spread over fewer travellers. And investments will be needed to meet our environmental targets. On top of all that, airlines will need to repay massively increased debts arising from the financial relief. After surviving the crisis, recovering to financial health will be the next challenge for many airlines,” said Alexandre de Juniac, IATA’s director general and CEO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-operations-smooth-on-day-2-1-flyer-tests-ve/story-gR5jEB6tDOK0suaSmROMDM.html
27-05-2020||India||SC asks govts to arrange food, transportation for migrants||A week-and-half after it said it couldn’t intervene in the ongoing migrant crisis, the Supreme Court on Tuesday pointed to inadequacies and lapses in measures taken by the Centre and state governments in addressing difficulties faced by migrant workers because of the Covid -19 lockdown, as it took suo motu (on its own) cognizance of the crisis two months after it started.A three-judge bench of the top court headed by justice Ashok Bhushan issued notice to the central and state governments and ordered them to make immediate arrangements for the migrant workers’ transportation, food and shelter free of cost.“We take suo motu cognizance of problems and miseries of migrant labourers stranded in different parts of the country….Adequate transport arrangement, food and shelters are immediately to be provided by the Centre and state governments free of cost,” the order said.The court asked the Centre and states to file their responses, treating the matter as urgent. The case will be heard again on Thursday when the central government’s second senior-most law officer, solicitor general Tushar Mehta, will have to assist the court on the measures taken by the central government to alleviate the sufferings of the migrant workers.“We direct the suo motu petition to be taken up day after tomorrow and we request the learned solicitor general to assist the court and by the next date of hearing bring to the notice of the court all measures and steps taken by the government of India and to be taken in this regard”, the bench, which also comprised justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MR Shah, ordered.The apex court’s order of Tuesday was in contrast with the approach it adopted throughout the lockdown, which started on March 25, while handling cases related to Covid-19, particularly petitions highlighting the plight of migrant labourers who left the cities and tried to head home to their homes in the hinterland after losing their livelihoods.On a plea seeking free transport for migrant workers to their states, the top court, on May 15, left it to the states to take action to deal with the problem, maintaining that it cannot pass orders based on media reports.“How can we stop people from walking? It is impossible for this court to monitor who is walking and who is not walking”, the court remarked, commenting on reports of migrant workers walking long distances to get back home.Earlier, in March, in relation to the same case, Mehta tod the court that no migrant was walking back home.Soon after the lockdown was imposed on March 25, migrants by the thousands, who had lost their jobs, started walking back home because no public transport was available. Many were stopped at state borders and sent to shelters. Others continued to walk along train tracks or on highways. In late April, the government announced guidelines for transporting them back home by bus. On May 1, it launched special trains for them, but many continued to walk back home because they did not want to wait for the trains or did not have the documentation required to board them. On May 9, 16 workers walking back home to Madhya Pradesh from Maharashtra, and who had stopped to rest on railway tracks (and fallen asleep) were run over by a goods train. Another plea for payment of minimum wages to migrant workers during the lockdown was also disposed of by the apex court on April 21 without any concrete directions. “If they are being provided meals why do they need money for meals”, Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, who was hearing that case, asked.The order passed on Tuesday had a different tenor to it as the court relied on media reports highlighting the “unfortunate and miserable conditions of migrant labourers” walking and cycling long distances. “This Court has also received several letters and representations from different sections of society highlighting the problem of migrant labourers”, the order said.Twenty advocates practicing at the Supreme Court and the high courts wrote a letter on Monday to the CJI highlighting the plight of migrant labourers and urging the court to intervene.The court in its order seemed to have accepted that the problems of migrant labourers are far from over.“The crises of migrant labourers is even continuing today with large sections still stranded on roads, highways, railway stations and State borders”, the order said.In the present situation, migrant labourers need “succor and help”and a concentrated effort will be required to redeem the situation, the court added.“We, thus, issue notice to the Union of India and all States / Union Territories to submit their responses looking into the urgency of the matter”, the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-asks-govts-to-arrange-food-transportation-for-migrants/story-q654zXcJSzoGar5Sw15o3K.html
27-05-2020||India||ICMR says will review use of HCQ in Covid treatment||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will review whether to continue use of hydroxycholroquine (HCQ) to treat coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients in India after the World Health Organisation (WHO) suspended human trials till it assess data on its safety and efficacy. The use of the anti-malarial drug as a prophylaxis -- preventive medicine -- will continue in an attempt to ward off infection in people at risk, such as health care workers.“Our experts will be meeting tomorrow ( Wednesday) to assess the evidence that is before us in treating patients with a combination of HCQ and antibiotic azithromycin that is currently being used. A call will be taken after the discussion and a fresh advisory could be issued in this regard based on what experts say,” said an ICMR official, who did not wish to be identified. On Friday, ICMR revised its March 23 advisory on approving prophylaxis use of HCQ, and expanded the pool of people who should be given the medicine to prevent infection, including asymptomatic surveillance workers deployed in containment zones and paramilitary/police personnel involved in Covid-19-related activities.In March, ICMR approved “restricted use” of the drug in the country after available global studies showed there was viral load reduction in Covid-19 patients who took it.“We were always looking at the drug’s efficacy in preventing infection; not really for treatment purposes,” the ICMR official added ICMR also began the use of the drug under observational study mode to get proof of concept, and also did some in-vitro studies in a lab in the National Institute of Virology, Pune, to generate data on its efficacy.“ Many drugs are being repurposed for treatment and for prophylaxis purposes, of which HCQ is one. It’s a safe drug and has been in use for nearly 100 years, which provided the sense of its safety, and the lab studies showed the drug had anti-viral activity. Data generated over the past five to six weeks has shown that it may be working, with no major side-effects.The ICMR advisory is clear that it is to be taken as a prophylaxis drug for actual benefit,” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, ICMR .The data on assessment of HCQ prophylaxis among 1,323 health care workers indicated adverse effects such as nausea (8.9%), abdominal pain (7.3%), vomiting (1.5%), hypoglycemia (1.7%) and cardio-vascular effects (1.9%). The data from the Pharmacovigilance programme of India reported 214 instances of adverse drug reactions associated with prophylaxis HCQ use.The observational prospective study of 334 healthcare workers at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, out of which 248 took HCQ prophylaxis also showed that those taking HCQ prophylaxis had lower incidence of the Sars-CoV-2 infection than those not taking it.“However, there are certain contraindications for not taking the drug that have been listed in the advisory, and the drug is not to be taken on an empty stomach as that could have caused nausea in maximum cases,” said Dr Bhargava.The dosage given to people in India is 400mg, twice a day, for one day, and subsequently 400mg once a week. The course is recommended for seven weeks.Doctors say some more evidence is required before confidence in the drug can be reinstated.“We are not giving the drug now as enthusiastically as it was given in the beginning given the kind of evidence before us. We will have to look into all aspects of the evidence available; we will talk to experts on this,” said Dr Yatin Mehta, critical care specialist, Medanta Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-says-will-review-use-of-hcq-in-covid-treatment/story-CoiAxnhvOBsBa1odmpmbYP.html
27-05-2020||India||Covid tests set to get cheaper as ₹4,500 price cap removed||In a move that will likely bring down the cost of testing substantially, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Tuesday removed the price cap of ₹4,500 on the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test, billed as the gold standard for detecting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). States have been given a free hand to negotiate with the approved laboratories and fix the cost of Covid testing.In a letter written to the states, ICMR director general Dr Balram Bhargava said that as testing capacity and infrastructure have improved significantly since the beginning of the outbreak, the ceiling price fixed earlier was not applicable. With domestic production being ramped up, the dependence on imported testing kits is also negligible.“At the beginning of the Covid pandemic, there was a global crisis of testing kits and reagents as India was heavily reliant on imported products for molecular detection of viruses.As such in mid-March no rates for RT-PCR test for Coronavirus was available for reference in the country. Keeping in view the cost of imported kits and efforts involved in carrying out the test, ICMR suggested the upper limit of a single test as INR 4500,” said the letter, a copy of which was reviewed by Hindustan Times.Karnataka took the lead last month and capped the Covid testing price at ₹2,250 in private labs within the state for samples sent by the government.Private labs elsewhere have already begun the process of cost revision. “We have already reworked our costing, and to Delhi government we are offering Covid test at about ₹3,500. It’s a done deal from our side,” said Dr Arvind Lal, chairman and managing director, Dr Lal PathLabs.India has 428 government and 182 private labs engaged in Covid-19 testing, with a capacity of conducting about 140,000 tests a day.“… keeping in view the evolving prices of the testing commodities, the earlier suggested upper ceiling of INR 4500 may not be applicable now and therefore all state governments/UT administrations are advised to negotiate with private labs and fix up mutually agreeable prices for samples being sent by the government and also private individuals desirous of testing by these labs,” said the advisory.The government has been working with domestic manufacturers “…by handholding and promoting them to locally manufacture swabs, viral transport medium and RNA extraction kits.. now testing supplies are also stabilising and many of you have started procuring such kits from local market. Due to varied options of testing materials/kits including indigenous ones, the prices are becoming competitive and are undergoing reduction,” added the advisory sent to all state chief secretaries. Another private lab owner, on condition of anonymity, said lowering prices of Covid testing further could compromise the quality of testing. “The cost hasn’t changed much except for say PPE {personal protection equipment} kits and masks. The test kits are still expensive and cost me say about Rs.1,600 for each test. I haven’t had the confidence in Indian kits yet. We had wanted it to be much higher when ICMR was fixing prices initially but it was capped at ₹4,500. We aren’t making any money out of it, and will get into significant losses.”The domestic kit manufacturers say it is going to be some time before pricing changes significantly.“Pricing depends on multiple factors, not just bulk production; for example the cost of technology plays a role that is usually expensive. An increased production volume does make a difference in lowering costs but how much the cost comes down will hinge on other factors also. For a lab it may help if they are doing more tests in a day because overheard charges will remain somewhat same. But I can say for sure that in some time India is going to be a competitive market globally,” said Hasmukh Rawal, managing director, Mylab Discovery Solutions, a Pune-based manufacturer of RT-PCR diagnostic kits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-tests-set-to-get-cheaper-as-4-500-price-cap-removed/story-8vXIP6t9ObXV1GhlDY5JWN.html
27-05-2020||India||Charge sheets filed against 82 foreign Jamaat participants||New Delhi: Delhi Police on Tuesday filed 20 charge sheets against 82 foreigners who allegedly attended a religious congregation organised in March by the Tablighi Jamaat, an Islamic missionary group, at its headquarters in New Delhi’s NIzamuddin area, in violation of their visa conditions and the Indian government’s guidelines on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Police said that the Central government has cancelled the visa of the 82 foreigners and blacklisted them. The headquarters, known as the Markaz, went on to emerge as the biggest Covid-19 cluster in India, leading to a spurt in the rate of infection in the city. The charge sheets, running to 15,499 pages, were submitted in the afternoon before duty magistrate Saema Jamil at the Saket court by the crime branch. The court is expected to decide on cognizance of the charge sheets on June 12. A charge sheet is a document that mentions charges and evidence collected against people accused of committing an offence. The court starts a trial only after taking cognizance of the charge sheet. The 82 foreigners against whom the police filed the charge sheet are from 20 different countries. They include 14 from Fiji, 10 from Saudi Arabia, eight Algerians and seven each from Brazil and China, six each from Sudan and the Philippines, five from the US, and four from Afghanistan. Police also filed charge sheet against two each from Australia, Kazakhistan, Morocco and the UK and one each from Ukraine, Egypt, Russia, Belgium, Jordan, France and Tunisia.They all have been booked under Section 14 (b) of the Foreigners Act, Section 3 of the Epidemic Disease Act, 51 of the Disaster Management Act and four sections of the Indian Penal Code, 188, 269, 270 and 271, for violating visa conditions, lockdown rules, spreading the virus, and breaking quarantine rule, Delhi Police said in a statement. “These foreign nationals had entered India on tourist visa and had participated in the Markaz illegally. In addition to violating the provisions of visa, these foreign nationals also led to a situation where a highly infectious disease such as coronavirus (Covid-19) infection spread and threatened the lives of the inmates and the general public at large,” the police statement read.The punishment for various offences under the penal provisions ranges from six months to eight years of imprisonment.More than 900 foreign nationals belonging to 34 different countries have been questioned in the case after they purportedly attended the religious congregation despite having entered the country on a tourist visa, the conditions of which prohibits the visa holder from engaging in any missionary activities, crime branch officials associated with the probe said. “The charge sheets have been filed against 82 foreigners since there were enough evidence against them. Charge sheets are being prepared against other foreign nationals, who are accused in the case, country-wise. The remaining charge sheets will be submitted in the next few days,” said a senior crime branch official, requesting anonymity.The HC was also informed by advocate Rahul Mehra, standing counsel of the Delhi government (criminal), that more charge sheets would be filed within this week against the foreigners.The crime branch had filed a criminal case against Tablighi Jamat chief Maulana Saad and six other top officials on March 31 for defying a series of government directives, which curbed religious and large gatherings, issued to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the national capital. Charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder and criminal conspiracy were added to the case after some of the attendees of the religious congregation died due to the virus. Police are yet to summon Saad for interrogation, but have got a lookout notice issued against him to prevent him from leaving the country. More than 2,300 people, including foreigners, were evacuated from the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in March-end and lodged in various quarantine facilities in Delhi by the authorities. Many other foreigners were found staying in different religious and residential buildings across the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/charge-sheets-filed-against-82-foreign-jamaat-participants/story-qKF6TdLYzFPscm1TDNrNLO.html
27-05-2020||India||‘Districts in green zone to help BJP campaign for MP bypolls’: Congress||The Congress has accused the BJP-led Madhya Pradesh government of putting districts in the green zone to help party leaders campaign for the yet to be announced state assembly bypolls. The principal opposition party, which was in power until two months ago, also complained that the BJP leaders are violating the social distancing norms while out on the campaign trail.Stressing its point, the Congress highlighted the situation in three regions.In Gwalior, cases have increased from 72 on May 19 to 107 on May 25; in Morena, they have increased from 38 to 83; while in Bhind they have increased from 25 to 49 during the same period.Ajay Yadav, Madhya Pradesh Congress spokesperson, said the entire Chambal-Gwalior belt, which has 16 of the 24 constituencies, has been declared a green zone despite the high number of Covid-19 cases there.“This has been done to allow BJP leaders and their followers to campaign without any hindrance in the region,” he said.State BJP vice president Vijesh Lunawat said the allegation of the Congress showed that they were giving up already.“The norms are the same for all. There is no exception for the BJP leaders,” he said.The bypolls, necessitated by the resignations of 22 Congress MLAs who rebelled against Kamal Nath, are to be held before September.The 22 rebel MLAs later joined the BJP. The resignations were accepted on March 15 and the elections are to be held within six months. Two seats are vacant because of the death of sitting legislators.Tulsi Silavat, water resources minister in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet, who is expected to contest the bypoll from Sanver, the seat he resigned from, visited the constituency last week, accompanied by BJP MP from Indore Shankar Lalwani and MLA Ramesh Mendola.MP Congress secretary Rakesh Yadav alleged that there was violation of lockdown restrictions and social distancing norms as a crowd surrounded the minister and other leaders. Silawat, however, said the visit had nothing to do with the bypolls and that he was on an official visit to the constituency.“There was no restriction to move around in my constituency,” he said.On May 24, state BJP leaders claimed that 200 Congressmen from Sanchi in Raisen district joined the BJP at the state BJP headquarters in Bhopal in presence of ex-minister Prabhuram Chaudhary. The latter is likely to re-contest from Sanchi. On this occasion too, the Congress accused the BJP of ignoring social distancing rules.The leaders of the BJP and the Congress have held several meetings to prepare for polls in the Gwalior-Chambal region.Union rural development minister Narendra Singh Tomar, who represents Morena in the Lok Sabha, had several meetings with party workers last week in his constituency. Five of the total six assembly seats in Morena district would go to polls.Gwalior is another key district with three assembly seats going to polls out of the total six. MP health minister Narottam Mishra and Pradyumn Singh Tomar, who resigned as minister from Kamal Nath government, has held several meetings in the region. Tomar is likely to contest on a BJP ticket from the Gwalior seat.“The day CM renamed Chambal expressway as Chambal progress way, the party’s campaign in the region started. Leaders are holding small public meetings to inform people about the Congress misrule of 14 months,” Lunawat said.The Congress has appointed Ashok Singh, former Gwalior mayor as Gwalior district president, and has asked senior party leader Gobind Singh to look after the campaign in the region.Another prominent Dalit leader of the Gwalior-Bhind region, Phool Singh Bhariya, was given the Rajya Sabha ticket to strengthen the party’s vote base among Dalits in the region. The Congress has also shifted its war room to Gwalior, indicating that the party was preparing for the polls. “Our biggest challenge is selecting the candidates as the established leaders have joined the BJP. That is an opportunity to prop young leadership in the region,” said a senior Congress leader, who is tasked with candidate selection.Gwalior-based political analyst, Jayant Singh Tomar, said, “The reason why the BJP is ahead of the Congress in the poll campaign is the fact that there is no confusion in the party on candidates’ selection. Also, the party has to ensure its victory on at least nine seats to retain power. The Congress is struggling in the candidate selection process.”The strength of the house has been reduced to 206 from 230 because of the resignation by Congress legislators and death of two BJP lawmakers.The BJP, with 107 legislators, is comfortably ahead of the majority mark of 104.Yadav said the Congress was confident of the victory despite the ruling party creating hurdles for its leaders to campaign. “The high number of Covid cases have exposed the inability of the Shivraj Singh government to handle any crisis. We worked for welfare of the farmers and downtrodden,” he said.Lunawat countered by saying that people would vote against the Congress as they were fed up with their misrule of 14 months. He alleged that the Congress rule brought back corruption in transfer and postings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/districts-in-green-zone-to-help-bjp-campaign-for-mp-bypolls-congress/story-irTLrwZ2BbAMzlcoWBIgvI.html
27-05-2020||India||Maharashtra: New academic session for schools to begin from June 15||Mumbai: Maharashtra education department has announced that it would begin the new academic session for schools in the state from June 15, irrespective of whether the school authorities can reopen their institutions because of the prevailing lockdown restrictions, which were imposed in end-March to contain the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.“The new academic year for schools in the state will begin from June 15. We’ll use online learning mode, where schools cannot be reopened because of the pandemic,” said Vishal Solanki, education commissioner, Maharashtra. Schools, however, cannot be reopened from mid-June in Mumbai, a red zone.Earlier, the department had sought suggestions from the stakeholders, including school owners, principals, and parents, for reopening schools in the state. Most responses opposed any bid to reopen schools before at least till the end of July. “If the academic year doesn’t begin on June 15, a lot of students are likely to drop out especially in rural areas and from poor urban households. These students shouldn’t be denied an education. Even if some schools open, it’ll be a relief, as children will get mid-day meals, when many parents are struggling to provide for two square meals a day,” said Hemangi Joshi, a social activist.In Maharashtra, about 30% of students have access to smartphones, or the technology required for e-learning, according to the data available with the state education department. “It’s going to be a challenge, when the new academic session starts on June 15. Most schools are likely to remain shut because of the viral outbreak. While the rest of the students don’t have any access to e-learning tools. Besides, e-learning is not just about staring at a computer screen, as students need to get acquainted with its modes,” said a principal of a Mumbai-based school.The education department is currently sharing online links for students between Class 1 and VIII, which can be accessed through the DIKSHA mobile application. It has also released portable document format (PDF) copies of all the textbooks – from classes 1 to XII — on the website of Balbharti, the state’s school textbook publication bureau.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-new-academic-session-for-schools-to-begin-from-june-15/story-AtPhx2rwE3HmH1bOgYECCM.html
27-05-2020||India||BSEB Bihar 10th Result 2020 Latest Updates: Bihar Board class 10th result declared at biharboardonline.com||Bihar Board matric toppers from LakhisaraiSannu Kumar ---477Saurav Kumar ---469Krishna Kumar ---467Vijay Kumar --- 466Alok Kumar --- 465Bihar Board matric result 2020: Top 5 rank holders from MungerAkash Kumar ---470Rimjhim Kumari --- 452Ritik Kumar --- 452Ruchi Kumari --- 451Ritesh Kumar --451Rachi Prasoon --- 449Abhay Raj -- 449Saurav Kumar--- 449Priya Kumari --- 448Gaurav Kumar--- 448Abhinav Kumar --- 448Bihar Board 10th Result 2020: Top 5 rank holders from Araria districtAnkit Raj -- 475/500Payal Kumari --- 471/500Sadan Kumar- -- 470/500Jyotish Anand --- 466/500Suchi Kumar --- 465/ 500Bihar Board 10th Result 2020 HighlightsBihar Board 10th Result 2020 was declared on Tuesday. 80.59% students passHimanshu Raj, son of a vegetable vendor in Rohtas district of Bihar has topped the state by scoring 96.2% Read full highlights hereBihar Board 10th Result 2020: Top 5 rank holders in PurneaShubham Raj -- 473/500Anjali Kumari--- 467/5000Ejaz Ahmed -- 467/500Saurabh Kumar --- 464/500Sayem Alem--- 463/500Mani Muskan --- 462/500Bihar Board 10th Result 2020: Farmer’s son Durgesh Kumar is the second topperDurgesh Kumar, a student of S K High School, Jitwarpur, Samastipur has secured the second rank by scoring 96%. Born in a farmer’s family, Durgesh wants to prepare for the IIT entrance exam and become an engineer.BSEB class 10 topper Himanshu Raj wants to become a software engineerHimanshu Raj of Janta High School Tenyaj, Rohtas has topped the Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) Class 10th examination 2020. He has scored 481 marks out of 500 which is 96.20%. He is the son of a vegetable vendor, and wants to become a software engineer.Bihar Board 10th Result 2020: SAV’s supremacy in Bihar board endsThis year, Simultala Awasiya Vidyalay (SAV) has no student in the top 5, while there are just three students among the 41 students in the top 10 Bihar Board first to declare board results this year: Anand Kishor“Bihar board became the first board to declare the results of class X and XII in the country as most of the boards have either not completed the examination or could not complete the evaluation of answer sheets because of the lockdown enforced in the country to contain the spread of Coronavirus infection,” the BSEB chairman Anand Kishor said. 5.2 lakh students pass in 2nd divisionOut of 5,24,217 who passed in second division, 2,57,807 are boys and 2,66,410 are girlsBihar Board 10th Result 2020: Check pass percentage, topper list, full details hereBihar Board 10th result has been declared. Over 12 lakh candidates have passed the examination making a pass percentage of 80.5. Check full details here. Bihar Board 10th Result 2020: Check full toppers’ list hereCheck Bihar Board 10th Result 2020 toppers’ list here Check Bihar Board 10th Result on Hindustan Times Result portalThe Bihar Board 10th Result website is not opening due to heavy traffic. Alternatively check your scores here at Hindustan Times Result portal. Direct link to check Bihar Board matric result 2020 Bihar Board 10th Result 2020: 4 lakh students pass with first divisionOut of 4,03,392 who passed in first division, 2,38,093 are boys and 1,65,299 are girlsBihar Board 10th Result 2020: See pass percentage trends from previous yearsPass percentage in 2017: 50.12%  2018: 68.89%, 2019: 80.73%, 2020: 80.59%Bihar Board 10th Result 2020: Himanshu Raj of Rohtas is the topper with 96.2% marksHimanshu Raj of Janta High School Tenyaj, Rohtas has topped the Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) Class 10th or matric examination 2020. He has scored 481 marks out of 500 which is 96.20%. Check Bihar Board 10th topper list here2.8 lakh students failed in the examination2,89, 692 students have failed in the Bihar board examination. Results of four candidates have been kept pending.Bihar Board 10th Result 2020: 14 lakh candidates appeared14,94,071 students had appeared in which 7,29,213 are boys and 7,64,858 girls. Check details hereBihar Board class 10th Result 2020 declaredAfter a long wait, BSEB has finally declared the Bihar Board 10th result 2020 at onlinebseb.in and biharboardonline.com. Bihar Board 10th Result 2020: Few minutes to goIn just few minutes the Bihar Board candidates will be able to download their results online at biharboardonline.com and onlinebseb.in. Stay tuned for updates.Bihar Board 10th Result 2020 to be declared shortlyBihar Board 10th result 2020 will be declared shortly at onlinebseb.in and biharboardonline.com. The education minister of Bihar will announce the results at 12:30 pm.BSEB Bihar 10th Result 2020: State Education Minister to announce results soonBSEB chairman Anand Kishor announced that the Bihar Board class 10th result 2020 will be declared by the state Education Minister Krishana Nandan Prasad Verma at 12:30 pm.BSEB Bihar 10th Result 2020: One hour to go!Bihar Board 10th result 2020 will be declared in an hour. BSEB will upload the Bihar 10th results on its official websites. Candidates will be able to login and check their results online at biharboardonline.com and onlinebseb.inBihar Board 10th Result 2020 shortlyEducation minister of Bihar Krishna Nandan Prasad Verma will soon announce the Bihar Board 10th results 2020 today at 12:30 pm. Stay tuned for more updates.Bihar Board Matric Results: Take a look at last year’s topperSawan Raj Bharti of Simultala Awasiya Vidyalaya (SAV) in Jamui had topped the BSEB Class 10th examination 2019. He had scored 97.2%. Out of the top 10 students in the merit list, 9 were from Simultala Awasiya Vidyalaya (SAV) in Jamui.BSEB Matric Result 2020: Last year pass percentageIn the year 2019, the pass percentage of Bihar Board matric exam was 80.73%. In the year 2018, the pass percentage was 68.89%. BSEB matric result 2020: No press conference this yearThe Bihar Board 10th result will be declared online on the official websites of BSEB. Candidates will not be able to watch it live as there will be no press conference this year. However, we will provide you all the latest updates here.BSEB matric result 2020: How to check Bihar Board 10th result on mobileCandidates do not have to go to cyber cafe to check their Bihar Board 10th results. The official websites of BSEB onlinebseb. in and biharboardonline.com are mobile friendly too. They can check their results online using a smartphone as well. Click here to know more.Bihar Board 10th Result 2020: Why the results got delayed this yearEvery year BSEB declares the Bihar Board 10th results within a month after concluding the exams. Last year the Bihar Board matric result was declared in record 29 days on April 6, 2019. This year the result got delayed due to the coronavirus pandemic. The matric evaluation had to be suspended due to the coronavirus lockdown. The evaluation resumed on May 6 and concluded on May 17 after which the result was prepared. Bihar Board 10th Result 2020: List of websites to check BSEB matric resultThe Bihar Board 10th result 2020 will be uploaded on various official sites of BSEB. Here’s the list of websites on which the BSEB Bihar matric results can be checked: onlinebseb.in, biharboardonline.com, biharboardonline.bihar.gov.in, biharboard.online, biharboard.ac.inBSEB Bihar Board 10th result 2020: BSEB Matric Toppers’ ListBSEB will release the list of Bihar Board matric toppers after the result is declared. The list will have the details of toppers like name and roll number along with their scores and their parents’ name and the name of their school. The list will have details of to 10 rank holders. Last year the top 5 rank holders were from Simultala Awasiya Vidyalaya. We will provide you the toppers list here.Bihar Board 10th Result 202: Just 3 hours leftIn next three hours, over 15 lakh students will get their Bihar Board 10th result 2020. The result will be declared at 12:30 pm on Tuesday at onlinebseb.in. Bihar Board 10th Result 2020: Get instant SMS alert after the result is outCandidates can get their Bihar Board 10th result alert as soon as the result is declared by the board. Register here on our HT result portal for free. The registered candidates will receive an alert text and the direct link to check their matric result on their mobile number as soon as the result out. Click here to register nowBihar Board 10th Result 2020: Keep your admit cards readyCandidates are advised to keep their Bihar Board matric admit cards ready so that they can enter their roll number, roll code and registration number as mentioned in their admit card to login on their result page. BSEB Bihar class 10th exam 2020: Education minister to announce the results at 12:30 pmThe education minister of Bihar Krishna Nandan Prasad Verma will announce the Bihar board 10th result 2020 in presence of RK Mahajan, the additional chief secretary of education department Bihar at 12:30 pm on Tuesday.Bihar Board 10th Result 2020 will be declared soonIn just four hours, candidates who have appeared in the exam will be able to check their Bihar Board 10th Result online. Students have been waiting for their result anxiously for the last one week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/live-update/bihar-board-10th-result-2020-live-updates-bseb-bihar-class-10-matric-result-at-biharboard-ac-in/story-orbUmg1E13YzihHngX9kwJ.html
27-05-2020||Editorials||India is right to be firm on China | HT Editorial||India has signalled it will not back down at any of the border confrontations it has with China. Presumably, this means that the Narendra Modi government will settle for nothing less than Chinese troops moving back to their original positions and the status quo ante being restored along the Line of Actual Control. There can be no question of this being the correct stance: The experience of all China’s neighbours has been that concessions are treated as weakness, not friendship. Beijing may have hoped that its surprise mobilisation at three points in Ladakh and Sikkim will result in a quick round of the misnamed Chinese checkers. Instead, both sides are settling for something more akin to the ancient Middle Kingdom game of go, a grinding battle of manoeuvre that will go on through the summer. The Galwan Valley confrontation is the latest in a series of confrontations triggered by Chinese attempts to hinder, if not block, India’s infrastructure construction along the border. India has fast-tracked road construction to the Daulat Beg Oldie area of northern Ladakh since repeated standoffs in that region. The construction of a connecting road into the Galwan Valley was seemingly the trigger for China to send in thousands of soldiers. While China has sought to hinder construction before, the size of its intervention is unusual and indicates there may be greater ambitions involved. China’s description of the situation as “stable and controllable” is mildly reassuring. But the motives hardly matter. The Indian stance must be the same regardless. The difficult part will be calibrating India’s response to apply pressure on China and establish the credibility of India’s response. New Delhi must be prepared to show that if events along the border get out of hand, they will have a serious impact on other parts of the bilateral ties. China has long sought stability on its southern border as well as the dominance of the terrain. As India has ramped up its infrastructure, a process that has also included the deployment of fighters, new artillery, cruise missiles and, most recently, American helicopters and airlift, its dominance is coming under threat. India’s bold moves regarding Kashmir and China’s deteriorating geopolitical environment may be leading Beijing to up the ante. If so, it is all the more reason for India to stand firm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/india-is-right-to-be-firm-on-china/story-9HhKXJslh8D1wr3wXY4DeI.html
