28-05-2020||News||India can recover from the recession. Here is a plan | Analysis||The ~20 lakh crore package announced by Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi on May 12 will help energise the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) affected by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. If the Centre and states would give them priority status, they can become viable, produce goods and create employment. The money provided by the government to revive industrial and business activity could generate a modest multiplier effect. But this does not mean that India can stave off a deep economic recession.Whether and to what extent the government’s efforts will succeed in attracting foreign companies exiting China to invest here remains to be seen. In the Shenzen cluster of China’s Special Economic Zones (SEZs), companies were provided road, water and electricity infrastructure free of cost, and quick access to ports. The government also built accommodations close to work sites for labour brought in from remote areas. Single-window clearances for projects were in 30 days or less. The duty on exports was a flat 15%. Perhaps we could learn from Hanoi’s success in attracting companies exiting China, but now, United States (US) President Donald Trump has thrown a spanner in the works by saying that exiting American companies must return to the US or face punishment.The key to pulling the economy out of deep recession is to increase the multiplier effect — the speed at which money moves. The government must immediately initiate a huge programme involving new construction. The construction sector uses a lot of labour and is a hub multiplier for other industries such as steel, cement and paints. It will increase the demand for goods and services, a primary factor in driving economic growth. The infusion of money through massive public works that helped end the recession of the 1930s is the only real parallel to the current crisis.The government building a new Parliament house, a large secretariat building and houses for the vice-president and the prime minister would be a good beginning to a new construction programme. Add to this, a centre of Indian arts and an iconic building to house a new national library on the lines of the American Congressional Library. The construction of a large modern port each on the eastern and western coasts will fill an important need. The ongoing road-building programme could be expanded to include link-roads to nearby villages. Haryana should have a new capital: Chandigarh was built for Punjab. It is also time to begin work on some aspects of the river-linking plan.The government must consider creating a dozen or more clusters of research and development (R&D) universities and specialist institutions to promote science and technology in different regions. Each cluster should comprise an advanced information technology institute, a telecommunication centre tasked to develop Indian 5G, a medical complex for research and development in pharmaceuticals, a skills training and upgrading institute, a business centre for demand promotion and a design R&D centre.Roughly two-thirds of global trade was being conducted by multinational corporations (MNCs) via their own supply chains for resources and components, plus for direct final product entry into foreign markets. In the post-Covid-19 global market, some of the western-based MNCs will shift their supply chains from China to other countries, or they may opt for development of resources and components in their own or neighbouring countries. A major example of such a policy has been the European Union Common Market Food Programme.The global market is becoming increasingly competitive as more countries participate in producing and supplying goods and services. Clearly, India has to develop global dominance in certain niche sectors in which our footprint is sustainable. India’s exports are too diverse and lack a sustainable competitive advantage, and we must focus on developing clusters of excellence to support exports. Lead countries have firms with a sustainable competitive advantage acquired through developing products suited to their culture and knowledge. For example, Germany and cars, France and perfume and wine, Italy and leather shoes. We have to encourage the development of industries that can be upgraded for global markets such as gems/jewellery, pharmaceuticals and certain value-added agricultural products. We should make an effort to regain, with improved design and quality, at least a part of the textiles market.Some small and medium-sized companies are born globals (BGs) ie, small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in western countries that grow globally at over 20% per year. They are founded by entrepreneurs with the vision to go global. Some have become sizeable enterprises relatively rapidly such as Austria’s Red Bull and Finland’s Angry Birds. Many battleship MNCs are looking for such companies to use in their networks. Promising Indian startups should be advised and encouraged to learn from BGs.Many Indian SMEs have a low price strategy. This is fundamentally unsound in the long-term as it tends to commoditise its offerings. Advanced countries build brand equity for its country and firms. They treat brands as valuable assets. The consequent benefits of customer loyalty and rising profits strengthen their firms. With overproduction and international competition, a distinguishing factor is design. Customers are searching for better-designed products and are willing to pay more for them. Witness the success of brands such as Armani, Polo, and Scandinavian/Danish wood furniture. India should set up a training programme for BGs which combines design, technology, commercialisation and internship.The government should allocate 2% of the GDP for this (in addition to the 10% committed). This will set us on the path for the economy to emerge from a deep recession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/india-can-recover-from-the-recession-here-is-a-plan/story-0nMRX6OS97wHDoNJllRziK.html
28-05-2020||News||How Kerala is planning to tackle Covid’s third phase||Kerala has the dubious distinction of reporting the first three cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India. But the state government handled the first two phases in an exemplary manner, setting a template for political leadership and the global health community. Kerala is now bracing for the third round of the coronavirus pandemic, with people returning to the state from foreign countries, many of which are Covid-19 hotspots. Therefore, many of the returnees are likely to be positive. But I am clear about one thing: When Keralites return from abroad or other states in the country, we have to embrace them, unreservedly. But things cannot be as before. In the first two phases, around half a million people arrived at airports and railway stations, crossed border roads and forest paths that have no checkpoints, resulting in 512 positive cases. Of these, 70% are from abroad and 30% contracted the virus through contacts. Checking the returnees is straining the state’s financial and human resources. However, the state government is trying its best to keep them under surveillance and, thereby, protect others from getting infected. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has been involved in the management of the pandemic from the word go. Kerala is also fortunate because it has a dedicated administration and committed health workers, and most people have behaved in an extremely responsible manner. But when a large number of people are kept under surveillance in homes and institutions, it becomes impossible to take care of everyone and ensure the day-to-day management of non-Covid-19 diseases. The government has contacted 4.3 million people, and their condition is monitored daily by the control room. We have also to ensure that patients, including the ones with lifestyle diseases, take daily medications. Drug delivery plans, using the non-communicable disease control wings in the department of health, were started during the lockdown. Police and firefighters have also helped in delivering medicines. Heart transplants were done despite the shutdown of coronary therapies and operations in many other states. Kerala’s involvement in mental health has been praised by the Centre and other states. Over 8,000 counsellors have been helping more than 0.8 million people for various psychological ailments. In the third phase, the state’s challenge is two-fold: Reduce the spread of contacts, and therefore, unrestricted access to cities and villages in vehicles will pose a serious problem; and ensure that all of those who have returned undergo preliminary tests. Sending them to observation centres is no easy task. Therefore, the government has set some restrictions on the number of arrivals by land, sea and air while arranging for the police, revenue and health departments and volunteers to help test the maximum number of people each day. The state’s focus in the third phase is on the category that is most likely to be easily infected, and the most likely to be fatal. A large scheme has been planned to exclude elderly persons, pregnant women, small children, persons with disabilities and co-morbidities from the coronavirus-affected areas. Besides the health, police and social justice departments, anganwadi and accredited social health activists and volunteers are in contact with these cohorts. A national lockdown and closing the borders can help prevent the spread of Covid-19. Yet, no country can keep daily activities in limbo for too long. The shortage of food, job losses and stagnation of development activities can spell collective devastation. Kerala is also planning to relax the regulations, without adversely affecting agriculture and industry.The state also needs to be on guard against rumour-mongers and naysayers. I am hoping that the never-say-die spirit of the people from Kerala will prove up to the task of facing down the third phase of the invidious virus. Today, we are in a better position compared to many other states. The interventions we made with great precision have helped to reduce the spread of the virus and mortality. But this should not make Kerala complacent against a dangerous and invisible enemy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-kerala-is-planning-to-tackle-covid-s-third-phase/story-gz4Sk7WuBFmAJu6LYZ0DJJ.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Tavern owner beaten to death in Ludhiana’s Doraha||Police have booked four persons for beating a tavern owner to death at Kaddon village in Doraha on Wednesday night. The accused have been identified as Sukhchain Singh, alias Manna, Sandeep Singh, alias Sonu, and Gagandeep Singh, all residents of Shahpur village. One of their accomplices is yet to be identified.The case has been registered following statement of Jeet Raj, employee at liquor vend. He said Shatrughan Pardhan, 28, of Odisha owned the tavern adjoining to the liquor vend. Pardhan went to sleep after pulling down the shutter after permissible hours. Around 11pm, the accused knocked at the shutter and asked for two bottles of liquor.After Pardhan refused to oblige them, they started abusing him. Jeet intervened and arranged two bottles of liquor for them from Jaipura village. The accused came back around 1am and started assaulting Pradhan, who had gone to answer the nature’s call in the nearby fields. When Jeet raised the alarm, the accused fled from the spot. Pradhan died on the spot. The accused were regular visitors to the liquor vend.A murder case has been registered against the accused and a hunt has been launched to nab them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/tavern-owner-beaten-to-death-in-ludhiana-s-doraha/story-1II7nTn7zDrPXk7OZfgaZO.html
28-05-2020||Mumbai||Three cyclists hit the pedal, collect ₹4 lakh for migrants, cops||Three cyclists have raised over Rs 4 lakh for Covid-19 relief by cycling indoors for 24 to 48 hours. Each of them covered between 500 to 1,300 kilometres and collected donations from the public while live streaming their efforts.“Since it was clear that the responsible thing to do during lockdown was to stay indoors, I realised our responsibility didn’t have to end with that. We could still do more work for society even while we stay indoors,” said 35-year-old Alibaug resident and ultra-distance cyclist Sumit Patil.To cycle indoors, the bicycle is mounted on a turbo trainer, which helps the cyclist cycle maintain their stationary position. Most cyclists use online software that give them routes and the feeling of cycling outdoors, including excess pressure when the virtual route includes uphill roads.On May 20, Patil set up his cycle on the roof of his house and chose to live stream himself cycling to raise funds for migrant labourers. “I found an organisation that has been providing water and energy supplements to all those taking the Mumbai-Agra route and directed all the funds I could raise,” he said. In 24 hours, Patil covered close to 644km and raised Rs 1.8 lakh. “My initiative was to encourage people to contribute Rs 100 for a kilometre I ride, and so I was expecting to raise around Rs 65,000. When I realised that I could raise more than double that amount, I was humbled to know that many people wanted to contribute, just didn’t know how,” said Patil.Software engineer and cycling enthusiast PVR Sasikanth also raised funds for the urban poor. Based in Hyderabad, Sasikanth raised around Rs 70,000 by cycling for 24 hours. “I wanted to help people who I could see needed help, so sought help from other cycling enthusiasts who joined the live stream of my stationary cycling session,” he said. “I covered just over 500km and managed to raise around Rs 70,000 in 24 hours. Whatever I collected, I used to help the poor struggling for food and water in my neighborhood.” Nagpur-based ultra-distance cyclist Amit Samarth turned 40 on May 5. “For my birthday, I decided to cycle for 48 hours at a stretch and raise funds for the state police force,” he said. Samarth has previously completed the Race Across America (4,940 kms) and the Trans-Siberian Extreme (9,100 kms). “I started cycling on May 2 and ended it on May 4, with minimum sleep and bathroom breaks. My family and friends kept my hydrated and kept encouraging me throughout the 48 hours,” said Samarth.At the end of the two days, Samarth had cycled 1,301km and raised over Rs 2.2 lakh. “Since the state police is on the forefront of the Covid-19 fight, I directed Rs 1.51 lakh of the money raised to the state police while the rest was donated to three different NGOs who are running kitchens to feed people. I couldn’t have asked for a better birthday,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/three-cyclists-hit-the-pedal-collect-4-lakh-for-migrants-cops/story-uYlYo1H5lLpHopUKZPF4cO.html
28-05-2020||Noida||With 11 fresh cases, Covid-19 count reaches 377 in GB Nagar||The overall tally of Covid-19 positive cases in Gautam Budh Nagar district increased to 377 with reports of 11 new cases on Thursday. However, 10 patients, including eight employees of the Zee news channel, were discharged from two different hospitals in the district after being cured, health officials said.District surveillance officer Dr Sunil Dohre said that of these 11 new cases, four were from Sector 16 and one each from Salarpur, Surajpur and Rampur Jewar. “The remaining four are from sectors 5, 15A, 56 and 71. The 11 new positive cases are nine men and two women. Till Thursday evening, the number of positive cases reported in the district is 377. Of them, 262 people have been discharged from different hospitals, five patients have so far lost their lives and 18 have been cross-notified from other districts and states. We now have only 110 active cases,” he said.He further said that while one patient after being cured was discharged from Sharda hospital, the other nine—including eight employees of the Zee news channel—were discharged after being cured and tested asymptomatic from Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida.Dr Dohre further said that health camps were organised in 12 sensitive places in the district on Wednesday, including at Mamura, Nithari, Sarfabad, Harola, sectors 8, 9 and 10. “A total of 815 patients was screened today and 17 of them, who had symptoms of fever, have been referred to the district hospital,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/with-11-fresh-cases-covid-19-count-reaches-377-in-gb-nagar/story-n1ObOw8HNSTyzufxVTLOPM.html
28-05-2020||Mumbai||Farmers can get loans up to 70% of their produce cost||To provide relief to distressed farmers, the state government has launched a mortgage loan scheme against their farm produce. The new scheme allows a farmer to stock his produce at the godown of the Maharashtra State Warehousing Corporation (MSWC) and get up to 70% amount of total cost of the produce as a mortgage loan.The corporation will also provide the warehouse to store the stock at half the prices. The farmers can take benefit of the scheme if they are not getting a proper price for their produce or facing any other difficulty in selling their stock.Currently, under the scheme, the loan will be provided by the Maharashtra State Cooperative (MSC) Bank. State cooperation minister Balasaheb Patil said that the scheme has been formalised keeping in mind the difficulties being faced by the farmers. The scheme allows to safely store their stock until they get a proper price to sell and prepare for the next season. “We are starting this scheme for three months on a pilot basis and based on the response, we might extend it to other banks,” said Patil.The application for the scheme has been made online so that farmers don’t have to go to the bank. A facility has been created through which the application for the mortgage loan can be made through the online system of MSWC, based on the receipt issued against the stock. “The state has also prepared a mobile application through which loan application can be given,” said the cooperation minister.“They will get the loan at an interest rate of 9% only. The state has also put a cap of Rs 5 lakh on the mortgage loan,” he added.Farmers will be free to sell their produce anytime they want. “The only condition is that they have to clear the principal loan amount along with the interest,” said a senior official from cooperation department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/farmers-can-get-loans-up-to-70-of-their-produce-cost/story-V6VNpXyHGaZB7X3dw3rVEO.html
28-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai airport likely to see low footfall till November: Officials||While the Mumbai airport is the only major airport to be restricted to operate 25 departures resulting in poor passenger footfalls, officials expect the pattern of low passenger footfall to continue for the coming six months. A senior airport official said, “We have never seen the airport this empty.”“Looking at the situation we don’t see the airport getting back to its regular footfall before November,” the official added.Airport sources said that the terminal 2 (T2) of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) is operating with lesser staff across their various departments. Fewer retail outlets have been opened for passengers due to restrictions of flight movements at Mumbai airport. The airport witnessed a total of 50 scheduled flights which include 25 departures and 25 arrivals. The airport had operated 47 flights on the first day after restrictions were lifted and 44 flights on the second day. It, however, operated to its maximum limit set by the state government on Wednesday and Thursday. “CSMIA connected to 16 sectors which were operated by five airlines. On Thursday, CSMIA catered to a total of 5,583 passengers which include 4,255 passengers at departures and 1,328 at arrivals,” airport operator Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) said. IndiGo operated 22 flights to and from Mumbai, SpiceJet operated 14 flights, Air India operated four flights, AirAsia India operated four and Vistara operated six flights to and from CSMIA. Unlike the previous three days where Delhi route saw maximum passenger load, the highest passenger load capacity on the fourth day was seen to be on the Bhubaneshwar route departing out of CSMIA. A senior airport official said, “We hope the state government relaxes the restriction of only 50 flights movements from the airport from June 1, Monday.”“ As of now, only five airlines are operating flights and GoAir will be added to the schedule from Monday, leading to reduced flight frequencies thus adding to passenger trouble. However, there has been no communication from the state government on this as of now,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-airport-likely-to-see-low-footfall-till-november-officials/story-Di8j8A393hHsKaaoqt7SUP.html
28-05-2020||Noida||Traders meet the DM, weekly holiday for shops may be changed to Tuesday||Taking cognizance of traders’ complaints about diminished sales, the Gautam Budh Nagar district administration is planning to change the holiday for markets from Sunday to Tuesday.After meeting a delegation of representatives of different market associations on Thursday, district magistrate Suhas LY said traders have demanded a change in the holiday from Sunday to Tuesday. “Their points appeared reasonable to me. I’ll communicate their pleas to the state government and if it is approved, then the mandatory closing and sanitization day for all markets will be Tuesday and not Sunday,” he said.When asked about shifting the curfew timings of 7pm to 7am to a different time slot, Suhas said the curfew timings can’t be shifted in any case as it has been set nationwide, on the orders of the Union home ministry. “Since the maximum permissible limit of people in a market must not be over 50% the normal footfall, we have no option but to allow shops to alternately open through the week,” he said.Sushil Kumar Jain, president of Sector 18 market association, said if the weekly holiday is shifted, it will act as a boon for traders. “It will definitely help traders increase their sales,” he said. The DM also said the ‘illegitimate’ restrictions imposed by several residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) and apartment owners’ associations (AOAs) have come to his notice and he has called a meeting of different RWAs and AOAs on Thursday evening. “The RWAs and AOAs can only act as regulatory agencies, not as enforcement authorities. We will certainly take strict action against RWAs and AOAs that are found interpreting the government orders as per their whims and fancies,” he said. About the restricted movement between Delhi and Noida, Suhas said the interstate border regulation has caused some degree of inconvenience. “But, these decisions are being taken after looking at the epidemiological (medical) data, prevailing situation in the neighbouring places and contact tracing of previous Covid-19 patients. These parameters are being monitored continuously and appropriate decisions will be taken at the state and district level after taking both health and livelihood issues into consideration,” Suhas said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/traders-meet-the-dm-weekly-holiday-for-shops-may-be-changed-to-tuesday/story-LzszaBJRz23kvUAdj9QTCJ.html
28-05-2020||Mumbai||After migrant exodus, state to launch portal for sons of soil||The state government will soon launch a portal of the Industrial Labour Bureau to enable local unemployed youth to register for jobs to fill the gap evolved due to the exodus of migrant labourers. Industrial units, too, can enrol their requirement of labourers in various sectors on the portal.The state government constituted the bureau two weeks ago in the wake of the mass exodus of migrant workers due to the lockdown. It also appealed to local unemployed youth to come forward to fill the vacant posts. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said youth should contribute in rebuilding Maharashtra by taking up the jobs. After four review meetings, industries minister Subhash Desai has directed the departments concerned to launch the portal at the earliest. Desai said the data accumulated from the employment job fairs held over the past two years will be utilised by the bureau.“Maharashtra Information Technology Corporation Limited is developing this portal in association with the industries, labour and skill development department. It is almost ready and is expected to be launched next week. Besides facilitating employers, our skill development department will also impart training to the unemployed if required,” said an official from the industries department.According to the estimates, about 10 lakh migrant workers have gone back to their respective states and it may lead to shortage of workforce in industrial units after the lockdown is lifted. To tide over the shortage, the state government has constituted the bureau.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-migrant-exodus-state-to-launch-portal-for-sons-of-soil/story-3tehfWiThEhgXoyDVz3eTI.html
28-05-2020||City||Residents of highrise near Hindon airbase without regular water supply for two days||Residents of Oxy Homez, a high rise near the Hindon airbase, claimed that they were forced to live without water supply and with fluctuating power amid peak summer season since Wednesday.“In some houses there is some supply but in most, the taps have completely run dry. We were sent a message on May 26 that water supply will be closed for cleaning of tanks from 6am to 3pm on May 27. But the supply did not resume till Thursday,” said Mukesh Kumar, a resident of Oxy Homez high rise. The society is home to 5000 people in about 1470 flats.“Since most of the residents are at home due to lockdown, power consumption is more. The households were provided with an average of 3kVA power connections by the developer. The power load now has increased as usage of ACs and other electrical gadgets has increased. This is now proving to be insufficient,” said Vipin Kumar, another resident. “The power goes out whenever the overall usage exceeds the limit. So the entire electricity system needs to be probed by the electricity department.” Hirdesh Aggarwal, the director of Oxy Homez project, said that 2kVA to 5kVA electricity connections were provided to the residents initially.“As residents have now installed more gadgets, the load has gone up. They can always approach the electricity department and increase their electricity load on payment of charges. Some residents have already got the load increased. Regarding the water supply issue, there was cleaning of tanks which was to be done for a day and residents were sent messages. However, there is an issue of air bubble in pipelines for which our plumbers are taking up maintenance,” he said. “The issue was sorted out in 10 out of 13 towers and normal supply will be resumed by Thursday evening.” RK Rana, the chief engineer (distribution) of the Paschimanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited said, “We will get an inquiry done into the single point connection taken up by the highrise. A review will be done if there are issues with the connection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/residents-of-highrise-near-hindon-airbase-without-regular-water-supply-for-two-days/story-n1sMrYxv7JoSBfZtlld9CP.html
28-05-2020||City||Chinese national assaulted in Greater Noida highrise over feeding stray dog, cops yet to register FIR||Noida: A Chinese national, living in a Greater Noida highrise, sustained multiple injuries after being assaulted allegedly by a fellow resident for feeding stray dogs in the society.While the police are yet to register an FIR in the incident, they said that a non-cognizable report was registered on May 25, the day of the incident.According to the victim, who lives with another Chinese national at ATS Green Paradiso, Greater Noida, and works at an electronic manufacturing company in the city, she was allegedly beaten by a man, believed to be in his fifties, with a heavy wooden stick by a fellow resident, all because she fed a community stray dog that had a fight with the pet of the man. The alleged incident took place while the woman was out on her morning walk.Several video clips of CCTV footage from the area have emerged, which HT has seen, where the accused can purportedly be seen borrowing a stick from the guard, pacing towards the victim and after sometime running back, while throwing the stick back towards the guard. The victim is seen returning after sometime in a state of shock, and is limping.According to the medical report of the victim, she sustained multiple injuries on her private parts. The victim said that she had also contacted the Chinese Embassy following the incident which provided them with an option of evacuation.“I am under shock. It was an act of violence, and with that man living in the same society, we are scared of our safety. I knew that India was not safe, but never imagined that something like this would happen with me within the society where I live. Also, I did not expect such treatment of a foreign national. The man attacked me from behind and hit with all his strength. Worse, he still roams free,” said the woman, adding that residents of the high rise are divided on their support for her.The apartment owner association (AOA), though, released a statement condemning the incident, on the societies’ internal group. They, however, refused to comment.“We have decided not to comment on the incident. The police are looking after the matter,” said Sombir Singh, secretary, AOA, ATS Green Paradiso.The NCR registered by the police did not mention the name of the accused, and slapped only section 323 of the Indian Penal Code (voluntary hurting) in the report. Calling out the alleged “inaction” by the police, the Peoples for Animal (PFA) met the victim and provided her legal help.“This is not just an act of brutality to an animal feeder but also with a woman. She was badly beaten and even sustained injuries on her private parts. We will not tolerate this, or the inaction by the police,” said Kaveri Rana, president, PFA, Gautam Budh Nagar.“Police did not file an FIR in the cognizable offence and did not investigate the matter. So we are approaching the district court to ensure justice,” said Vishal Gautam, legal counsellor of PFA.The legal team of the PFA has demanded for an FIR with strict penal sections including 354, which is for punishment for criminal assault to a woman.Meanwhile, the police have said that they are now registering an FIR after taking the statement of the victim again.“We had already filed an NCR, and presented the accused in front of the magistrate, after which he was sent to jail and granted bail on the same day. We will now file the FIR with the proper statement of the victim, follow the due process, and also file a chargesheet,” said Sujeet Upadhyay, Station House Officer (SHO), Beta-2 Police station, Greater Noida. Vrinda Shukla, DCP, women’s safety, tweeted, “Noidawasis & animal lovers have been distressed over the reported aggression against a Chinese resident of Greater Noida. A case has been duly registered.”“The police has consistently assured the victim of full support. Initially an NCR under Section 323 IPC was registered as per victim’s application. Upon investigation a case is registered under Sections 354B, 504 & 323 IPC. We are committed to the safety and dignity of all women,” the Noida police department tweeted later in the evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chinese-national-assaulted-in-greater-noida-highrise-over-feeding-stray-dog-cops-yet-to-register-fir/story-l2pkImBiQeJCfoa1peYgNI.html
28-05-2020||City||Three arrested after ceiling collapses in Greater Noida West high-rise||A day after a portion of the ceiling in a high-rise flat in Greater Noida West collapsed, injuring a minor, the district police apprehended three persons for negligence.The incident had been reported from the Ajnara Homes society on Wednesday. Around 8.15am, a portion of the ceiling in the master bedroom of the house of a Sidharth Jaiswal had collapsed, injuring a seven-year-old boy on the head.Following the incident, the family had filed a complaint with the Bisrakh police and a case had been registered against four persons from the maintenance, the management and the developer under sections 288, 337 and 427 of the Indian Penal Code.“After the mishap, a team had rushed to the spot to take cognizance of the situation and the child had been taken for treatment. A case was registered and three people were arrested today. Residents were clearly upset about the quality of construction there,” Harish Chandra, the deputy commissioner of police, zone 3, said.The suspects were identified as Madhusudhan Kumar (the project manager), Aditya Agarwal (general manager, construction) and Harivansh Rai (the estate manager of the society). A fourth person (from the developer’s company) was also booked but has not been arrested yet. They were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.The police suspected that the incident might lead to opposition from the residents, and as a precaution booked the suspects under Section 151 of the CrPC to prevent public disorder.While the family did not want to comment on the situation, residents claimed that the response from the builder has been very lax.“No official visited the spot yesterday. A few people came over today and claimed to cover the cost of everything. But the problem is that there are several more at-risk spots in the society. Such incidents have taken place in other projects of the developer as well. We want them to take some responsibility before anything more serious happens,” a resident of the society said, requesting anonymity.While the builder, had on Wednesday, said that they sent a show-cause notice to the contractor for the repairs, they refused to comment following the arrests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-arrested-after-ceiling-collapses-in-greater-noida-west-high-rise/story-lIEVI4D6HTmhXAoqDnMKvL.html
28-05-2020||Mumbai||Lockdown saved lives of 8K to 32K people: Report||Analysis based on INDSCI-SIM, the first India-specific epidemiological model developed by the Indian Scientists’ Response to Covid-19 (ISRC), estimates that approximately 8,000 to 32,000 Indians averted death between April 3 and May 15 because of a combination of factors that include lockdown restrictions, increased testing, quarantine and physical distancing.ISRC is a group of more than 500 Indian scientists, engineers, doctors, technologists and public health researchers. It aims to provide accurate, science-based resources pertaining to the pandemic while also dispelling misinformation.A Niti Aayog report dated May 22 estimated that between 37,000 to 2.10 lakh Indians had evaded being infected by Covid-19. ISRC’s analysis arrived at a lower figure — between 8,000 to 32,000 — for this group. “Our mathematical model shows fewer Indians have been saved as compared to claims made in other reports, which is tough to crosscheck since we, unfortunately, have no idea of the technique used to arrive at those numbers. Ours is a more conservative estimate, and our method is documented,” said professor Bhalchandra Pujari of Savitribai Phule Pune University, who was part of the team that developed the INDSCI-SIM model.Scientists also said a large number of individuals infected with the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, have escaped detection. Dividing the population into six age groups with different infection and fatality rates, the model shows that those above 60 years of age form the major chunk of hospitalisations for and death from Covid-19. However, most Covid-positive cases are among people between 0 and 40 years of age, who are less likely to die of the infection.“In order to match the death timeline, our model indicates much higher infections than reported. This is however understandable, given most people are either asymptomatic or suffer from mild infections along with cases of death, all of which can go undetected,” said Pujari.Epidemiologist Dr Giridhar Babu, who is not involved with ISRC, said globally, new evidence suggests only clusters are important in the long run since on an average, 10% of a population have caused 80% of infections. “We need to prevent clusters from being formed. Gathering of more than two people should be banned as well as weddings, marathons, work space arrangements, or any large gatherings for the next three to four months. That will either lead to postponing or even flattening the curve. If we enforce cluster prevention strictly along with using masks and maintaining physical distance, we can continue with whatever gains we made,” said Babu.The ISRC team said a spike in the number of new Covid-positive cases is expected around August if current lockdown strategies are maintained, which would help keep the infection rate, or R0 (referring to the number of people infected by one Covid-positive individual), low. However, if there is a return to pre-lockdown conditions, a sharp spike is expected around mid-July.However, individual states and cities should work out their respective estimation to better plan measures to contain the epidemic.“The point of postponing the peak was to prepare the health infrastructure, which has been done. So health systems will be able cater to what is likely to be expected unless it goes beyond it,” said Babu. “States will peak at different times. Preventing clusters is the key, and how it will be done will define a state’s success.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lockdown-saved-lives-of-8k-to-32k-people-report/story-HFceo2L77kUa6zMCvl7QHO.html
28-05-2020||Mumbai||‘Bodies of Parsis who die of Covid-19 in Mumbai to be cremated’||Parsi community leaders on Thursday announced that the bodies of those community members who die of Covid-19 will be cremated, owing to the threat of transmission of the virus. The community traditionally follows the dakhma system or confines bodies to the Tower of Silence, a raised structure for dead bodies to be exposed to sun and carrion birds, usually vultures.The development comes around a month after the municipal corporation issued guidelines, allowing the burial of Covid-19 victims within city limits, provided the ground is large enough to ensure that there is no threat of transmission to the residents of the area.“For last rites to be held at Doongerwadi [Tower of Silence], we need permission from BMC [Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation]. However, in the case of Covid 19 deaths, no such permission has been provided, and it is BMC who is performing the cremation,” said Viraf Mehta, trustee of Bombay Parsi Punchayet (BPP), caretaker of Parsi properties in the city and the community’s largest representative body.A circular issued by BPP stated that for the last rites to be performed at Doongerwadi, there are several rituals that need to be performed, which would mean opening the bag in which bodies of Covid-19 patients are sealed.“On one hand, BMC tells the [Bombay] high court that there is no harm in touching the bodies of those who pass away of Covid-19, while on the other, one cannot open the bags in which the bodies are kept or touch the bodies, without which we cannot really perform the rituals. Also, there is a risk of transmission to pall bearers,” Mehta said. He added that though there are no official numbers to ascertain the Covid-19 deaths in the family, around 10-15 community members would have died of the virus.The Bombay high court had last week observed that there was no scientific data to support the claim that Covid-19 can spread through dead bodies.BPP, however, clarified that for those who die a natural death, traditional dakhma system is being followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bodies-of-parsis-who-die-of-covid-19-in-mumbai-to-be-cremated/story-whRC1um7WaGB9fNz1U3GLN.html
28-05-2020||City||TMC sets up war room to address pandemic issues||Thane Municipal Corporation has set up a war room to share information on Covid-19 with local corporators and residents within the civic body’s jurisdiction. The war room will be open 24x7 to address people’s complaints. “The war room will help solve people’s problems, fears or questions related to the pandemic. Based on the problems, we can make provisions in the ward or appeal to the state government. TMC’s war room will be in touch with the Mantralaya war room all through, from making provisions for ambulances to mortuary vans or providing assistance in which hospital to visit,” said Vijay Singhal, commissioner, TMC.This war room will come under the RDMC (Regional Disaster Management Cell). There will be three executive engineers and three assistant engineers working on a rotational basis in the war room. They will be accompanied by three medical officers. An ambulance and a mortuary van will be available at the war room at all times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tmc-sets-up-war-room-to-address-pandemic-issues/story-tW3KrqFGmAFXpwXvN0tjDK.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||116 in the fray for 4 posts of PSPCL, PSTCL directors||Three incumbent directors among 116 persons are in the fray for four posts of directors in the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) and the Punjab State Transmission Corporation Limited (PSTCL).The selection process has been initiated by the state government and is likely to be completed in the next few days, it is learnt. The term of the incumbent PSPCL directors is set to end in the first week of June.The government had advertised the posts of director (generation), director (commercial) and director (distribution) in the PSPCL, besides director (technical) in the PSTCL.Since these posts are technical, only officials of a chief engineer’s rank or above can apply.Interestingly, incumbent director (distribution) NK Sharma, director (commercial) OP Garg and director (technical) Ajay Kumar Kapur have applied for the same posts again.Besides, Kapur has also made applied for director (commercial) and director (distribution) in PSPCL. Former PSTCL director Shashi Prabha has also applied for the post she held earlier.“Though some directors have again applied, the chances of their reselection are bleak as the government wants to infuse new blood in the management. If their services were needed, the government would have given them extension like it did the previous year,” said a senior government official dealing with selection.A total of 19 applications were received for the post of director (generation), 37 for director (commercial), 35 for director (distribution) of the PSPCL, while 25 applications were sent for director (technical) of PSTCL.Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) engineer-in-chief Harminder Singh, PSPCL engineer-in-chief DIS Grewal, who is handling distribution operation at Ludhiana, chief engineer (Jalandhar) Gopal Sharma are top candidates.PSPCL engineer-in-chief (thermal design) Harjit Singh Saluja is also in the fray.The government has formed a screening-cum-selection committee headed by chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh and comprising principal secretary (power) A Venu Prasad and an invitee from a public sector undertaking, with the chief minister making the final selection.Prasad was not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/116-in-the-fray-for-4-posts-of-pspcl-pstcl-directors/story-L1fAOYW0lrZWvCzlYE0jJP.html
28-05-2020||City||Prisoner in Luksar jail dies after fight with another inmate||A 28-year-old prisoner serving time in Luksar jail since 2019 died on Wednesday evening from complications arising from a fight with another inmate on May 19. No FIR has been registered in the case so far.The victim was identified as Aarif, a native of the district, who had been arrested in November 2018, following an encounter with the Dankaur police. According to police officials, he had been booked under relevant sections of the Arms Act and the Gangster Act and also had charges of attempt to murder and robberies from 2018. Aarif was suspected of running his own robbery ring.According to jail authorities, Aarif had been brought to Luksar jail on December 2, 2019. On May 19, this year, he had a scuffle with another prisoner, named Allauddin, during which both of them fell from the porch on the solid floor of the drain channel below. While Aarif had sustained a head fracture, the other prisoner had minor injuries. “He was injured and was first taken to GIMS for treatment, from where he was referred to the district hospital. He was later referred to a higher centre in Delhi for treatment from where he was discharged on May 26 and transferred back here,” said Vipin Mishra, jail superintendent.However, on Wednesday his condition deteriorated and he was again rushed to the district hospital around 2.30pm. The hospital declared him dead on arrival. Officials said that the cause of his death based on the autopsy was Hyperpyrexia (high fever). They said that he was not corona positive and his body was handed over to his family, following an autopsy. The family was informed by the local police about the incident. Mishra further said that a complaint will be filed with the police soon.“A case will be registered as soon as either the jail authorities or the family file a complaint,” said Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 3.Senior police officials will nominate a magistrate to conduct an inquest while the district court will nominate a judicial magistrate for conducting a judicial enquiry, read a statement from the jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/prisoner-in-luksar-jail-dies-after-fight-with-another-inmate/story-5EpxfCt5KhkxC3AmaZ6EDJ.html
28-05-2020||Mumbai||Thane jail guard tested positive for Covid; 120 inmates of Arthur Road jail test negative||A 22-year-old jail guard, who reported for duty at Thane central prison on May 22 but was not allowed in, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. “The guard is asymptomatic and has been admitted to a quarantine centre,” said inspector general of prisons, Deepak Pandey.According to jail authorities, prison guards have been working in a 21-day shift and the guard reported for duty accordingly.Following the protocol, he was screened at the jail entrance and asked about his health and other details. He was not allowed inside the prison when he told them that two people in his building had tested positive for Covid. “The guard said he was healthy. But, told us that two people from his building at Lower Parel in Mumbai had tested positive for Covid-19. We asked him to get himself tested. On Thursday, the report showed that he was positive,” said a jail official, requesting anonymity.Meanwhile, 120 inmates of Arthur Road prison in Mumbai, tested negative for the virus. They are among the 158 who had earlier tested positive for Covid-19. Also, all the 26 jail officials, who were earlier infected with the virus, have tested negative, said Pandey.“We are concerned about the health of everyone in prisons, including inmates and the staff. We have already submitted documents of 1,100 inmates to the courts for them to be released on bail,” added Pandey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thane-jail-guard-tested-positive-for-covid-120-inmates-of-arthur-road-jail-test-negative/story-rvkKFhzsYrbZ1YW4y4mA5L.html
28-05-2020||City||Noida police constable tests positive for coronavirus||Noida: A 30-year-old constable of the Gautam Budh Nagar police, currently posted at the Phase 3 police station, was one of 11 people who tested positive for the coronavirus on Thursday in the district.This news comes three days after a constable posted with the district traffic department in Sector 14A contracted the disease in Delhi, following which three others from the office were quarantined.“The constable is a resident of Sector 71 and had complained of mild throat pain after which he was tested. His report today showed him positive for the coronavirus but he is already well on the road to recovery,” a senior police officer said.To avoid panic within the ranks, officers refused to give the number of personnel who have been quarantined so far.However, sources from the health department said 19 other personnel from the same station have been quarantined.“The contact tracing team is working on identifying all people who may have come in contact with the infected persons,” an official from the health department said.After the constable from the traffic department had tested positive, Gautam Budh Nagar traffic department had temporarily closed the fine counter on the premises.“The constable is a resident of Delhi and when he had complained of symptoms, he was asked to quarantine himself. Later, when he tested positive, three others from the office were quarantined, two of whom got their reports which were negative for the virus. The third one is awaited. However, to keep the public interaction to a bare minimum, we have closed the fine counter temporarily but these penalties can still be paid online. All precautions are being taken,” deputy commissioner of police, traffic, Rajesh S said.On May 5, 15 police personnel from Sector 20 police station had also been quarantined after a head constable with a Dial 112 vehicle had tested positive for the coronavirus disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-police-constable-tests-positive-for-coronavirus/story-XpshNuunhlEMJyLzVOBVII.html
28-05-2020||City||As migrants leave Mumbai, major infrastructure projects in city stuck||Lakhs of migrant workers leaving the city has badly hit ongoing infrastructure projects worth crores.Officials of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), which had more than 11,000 labourers at various project sites, said more than 50% have left. RA Rajeev, metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA, said, “We are yet to assess the impact, but migrant workforce leaving the city has affected projects.”Earlier, MMRDA had also said that Metro-2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar) and Metro-7 (Dahisar E-Andheri E), which were to be commissioned in December 2020, will be delayed by three months owing to the delays caused by the lockdown.Apart from the Metro corridors, MMRDA is also constructing the decades-old 22km sea-bridge Mumbai Trans Harbour Link (MTHL) connecting Mumbai and Navi Mumbai and several bridges in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region.An official said, “Almost all projects of MMRDA are facing problems owing to lack of labour force. There is a sort of anxiety among labourers, making them leave the city despite being provided with food and shelter at work sites.”MMRDA has also started works on phase-2 of the makeshift Covid-19 hospital at the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) grounds. The new facility will also have 1,000 beds, of which 100 beds will serve as the intensive care unit (ICU), while the rest will have both, oxygen and non-oxygen facilities, officials said. The work is expected to be completed in another 15-20 days.AV Shenoy from Mumbai Mobility Forum said, “Infrastructure is heavily dependent on labour force and the problem of migrant workers is likely to continue till the end of monsoon. We are likely to lose out on almost a year’s work in the bargain.” Meanwhile, the Central, Western, Konkan and South Central railways operated nearly 30 Shramik special trains from Maharashtra on Thursday. The trains were operated to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Orissa, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Uttarakhand and Kerala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-migrants-leave-mumbai-major-infrastructure-projects-in-city-stuck/story-Y1R2FHQk1ZTT8WCqieBpFO.html
28-05-2020||City||Traffic between Ghaziabad and Delhi doubles despite restrictions||Ghaziabad: Though traffic snarls at UP-Gate, at which the Ghaziabad-Delhi border falls, have eased in the past two days due to easing of restrictions, the flow of vehicles plying between Delhi and Ghaziabad has doubled. The nationwide lockdown, imposed from March 25 to curb the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, had brought vehicular movement to a halt. Later, as officials put curbs on movement between Ghaziabad and Delhi, drivers and passengers were made to undergo checks before they could pass through. In a decision taken earlier on April 20, the district magistrate under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act had prohibited any travel between Ghaziabad and Delhi except for those involved in essential services or having valid passes. The officials said that the latest direction of restriction on the border was under lockdown 4.0 guidelines issued by the Uttar Pradesh government on May 18.Under the May 18 directions of chief secretary RK Tiwari, commuters from Delhi, other than those from hot spot areas, were allowed to travel to NCR areas of Noida and Ghaziabad and the district administration was asked to issue detailed directions in this regard.Checking process of vehicles was ending up in traffic snarls at the border. However, after a May 26 order, which allowed for vehicles with passes to move, the jams have eased as cops have resorted to only random checks instead of checking every single vehicle passing through, said commuters.According to police officials, there is movement of roughly about 10,000 vehicles everyday at the border, which is more than double the number of vehicles, about 4,000, passing through the area when the earlier restrictions were imposed.“The traffic situation has eased and there are no long jams which were witnessed upto May 26. Back then, the police were checking each and every vehicle, which resulted in snarls. Now, there is random checking of vehicles which has resulted in lesser stoppage of vehicles at the border. The barricades are, however, still there,” said Kuldeep Saxena, an Indirapuram resident who works with the electricity department in Delhi.“Presently, there is a waiting time of about 5 to 10 minutes during the morning and evening rush hours, which is manageable,” he added.“At present, there are about 10,000 vehicles which are estimated to be passing through the UP-Gate border to Delhi. There is a spike in the number of vehicles as markets and offices in Delhi have opened up. Now, people know that they have to get passes issued for travelling to Delhi. There are checks at four points at the border during peak hours while checking at only two points is taken up during afternoon hours as there is very less traffic,” said Manish Mishra, superintendent of police (city).“The increase in the number of vehicles could also be due to the fact that the district magistrate’s order had given exemption to certain categories of commuters who can pass through on the basis of their identification cards,” he added.The vehicles involved in essential supplies are allowed to move without any restrictions.According to official records of the Ghaziabad administration, at least 16,102 passes were issued in April up to May 26 to those who wished to travel to any district in the state of Uttar Pradesh.“About 4,000 manual passes have been issued so far for people who have to go outside UP jurisdiction. About 80% of these are those who applied to travel to Delhi. During the initial days of the lockdown, we received about 800-900 applications daily for travel and only about 5-10% were given approval,” said MS Garbyal, additional district magistrate and the nodal officer for passes.“Since there have been more relaxations under lockdown 4.0, we have about 900-1,000 applications coming in and about 60% of these are approved. So, the number of valid commuters from Ghaziabad has also increased,” said MS Garbyal, additional district magistrate and the nodal officer for passes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/traffic-between-ghaziabad-and-delhi-doubles-despite-restrictions/story-ZWiLI1jBOf8CT5TAZxgJaI.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||2 prisoners escape from Sangrur jail||Two prisoners escaped from the district jail in Sangrur when they were working in fields within the prison complex on Thursday.The prisoners have been identified as Gurdarshan Singh of Mubarakpur Chungan village near Malerkotla and Sandeep Singh of Bangan village in Moonak tehsil.Police said Gurdarshan was convicted of killing Harkirat Singh, 50, husband of Manpreet Kaur, a Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) sarpanch from Mubarakpur Chungan village in 2017. Sandeep was serving a sentence for attempt to murder.Deputy superintendent of police (rural) Satpal Sharma said both prisoners were sent to the fields on the jail premises around 3pm and they managed to flee by dodging the security guard.“We are taking details from jail department and an FIR is being lodged against them. An alert has been sounded and the accused will be arrested soon,” said the DSP.Sangrur jail superintendent Balwinder Singh could not be contacted for a comment despite repeated phone calls. However, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sandeep Garg said jail department will inquire into the incident and act according to the findings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-prisoners-escape-from-sangrur-jail/story-CeTsiJn2EvcxoxNnh32ZNO.html
28-05-2020||City||HC relief to YEIDA allottees on increased compensation||In a major relief to the allottees of Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) land in Gautam Buddh Nagar district, the Allahabad High Court on Thursday said neither the state government nor the development authorities could recover the increased compensation given to farmers whose land was acquired from the allottees without any prior agreement. Ruling that any extra demand made by Yeida from the allottees was illegal, the court quashed all such demand orders.With this, the bench comprising Justices Pankaj Mithal and VC Dixit allowed a bunch of petitions filed by Shakuntla Educational and Welfare Society and various other builders and Trusts.On August 29, 2014, the state government had passed an order mentioning that due to the farmers’ stir and legal complications, an out of court settlement with the farmers offering them 64.7% more compensation for their acquired land was necessary provided they withdrew their petitions challenging the acquisition proceedings. “The government directed for the payment of 64.7% additional amount to the farmers and to recover it from the allottees of the land,” said that order.However, the petitioners’ contention was that the state government was recovering increased compensation from the allottees though it never modified terms and conditions of the contract and in the absence of the same the state government had no right to recover any excess compensation from the petitioners.“Any rights, on the basis of a concluded or final contract or lease, which have been crystallised in favour of any party cannot be taken away by framing a policy on some later date. A policy so framed would be prospective in nature and cannot affect the contracts already finalised. Any such policy which is unilaterally framed disturbing the rights which have accrued to a party would clearly be violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution,” contented the petitioners.Yeida representatives could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-relief-to-yeida-allottees-on-increased-compensation/story-MT9fP7vIHKXA4IK435hT4M.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||PSSSB declares result of 94 posts of supervisors in social security dept||Amid the Covid-19 lockdown, the Punjab Subordinate Services Selection Board (PSSSB) on Thursday declared the result of 94 posts of supervisors in the social security department.The recommendations for the names of eligible candidates for these posts are being sent to the department, PSSSB chairman Raman Bahl after a special meeting of the board. The result of 6 posts of video conference operators in the jail department was also declared.Bahl said the members also gave approval to start the process for filling up 440 posts of junior draftsman and 35 posts of assistant jail superintendent in various departments. An advertisement in this regard would be issued soon to invite applications. Board members Jaspal Singh Dhillon, Kuldeep Singh Kahlon, Rajneesh Sahota, Samshad Ali, Domila Bansal, Bhupinder Pal Singh, Ravinderpal Singh, Amarjit Singh Walia, Harpartap Singh Sidhu and Alta Ahluwalia participated in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/psssb-declares-result-of-94-posts-of-supervisors-in-social-security-dept/story-JKAlLI7eJVFozG7TIMF8UM.html
28-05-2020||City||Ghaziabad police attended to over 33,000 lockdown related calls in past two months||The police response vehicles (PRV 112) attended to nearly 33,000 calls related to the lockdown imposed to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), data maintained by the force showed. The police said of about 58,000 calls during the period from March 18 to May 26 , 33,786 were related to the lockdown.The PRVs attended to 6,770 lockdown related calls in the last week of March while another 23,064 such calls were dealt with in April, besides 3,952 calls from May 1 to May 26.The Ghaziabad police has 57 four-wheeler PRVs and 42 two-wheeler PRVs to respond to distress calls.“We segregated lockdown related calls into 34 categories which were related to public gatherings, appeals food and transport services, reporting of suspected Covid-19 cases and those related to migrant workers, among others. The calls related to migrant workers started picking up from mid-May when their movement to their home towns was at its peak,” Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police, and nodal officer for 112 services, said.“During the entire period, the maximum calls were lockdown related while the calls related to crime, domestic violence and fights, among others, were fewer,” he said.The statistics show that the calls made by residents demanding food were the highest of all 34 categories. In the last week of March, such calls numbered about 3,628 of a total of 6,770. These slowly climbed to 16,114 of 23,064 total calls received by police by April-end. In May, the calls went down to 713 of a total of 3,952 lockdown related calls.Similarly, people made 3,252 calls during the period from March 18 to May 26 that were related to different public gatherings during the lockdown. A total of 1,716 calls related to gatherings in parks, ration shops, vegetable markets, religious places and in open areas were also received during the same period.“Another set of calls were related to suspected Covid cases. We received about 1,569 such calls during the entire period,” Jadaun said.Quarantine norms relaxed Officials of the Ghaziabad district administration said Thursday that the mandatory 14-day facility quarantine or paid quarantine for foreign travellers who arrived in Ghaziabad, under the ‘Vande Bharat Mission,’ has been relaxed to seven days in facility quarantine and another seven days at home quarantine.“Earlier, all hailing from Uttar Pradesh were brought to Ghaziabad from Delhi airport. Now, they have to proceed to their home districts from the airport itself,” PN Dixit, the project director of district rural development authority, said.According to officials, 537 such persons have arrived in Ghaziabad so far on 16 different flights from different countries and 400 of them have been sent to their home towns after completion of 14-day quarantine in Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-police-attended-to-over-33-000-lockdown-related-calls-in-past-two-months/story-T7wA2ghap6TuSUOCTp8ykN.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Akalis submit memo to DCs seeking action in seed scam||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Thursday submitted memorandum to deputy commissioners across the state demanding immediate arrest of all those responsible for the multi-crore seed scam, besides an independent probe by a central agency or the high court.In identical memos to DCs for Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore, Akali leaders, including district presidents, MPs, ex-MPs, legislators and constituency representatives, demanded that all farmers who had been duped should be identified district-wise and given compensation.The Akali leaders, who maintained strict social distancing while submitting the memorandum, also rejected the alleged cover up exercise initiated by the state government, including the latest move to hold a vigilance inquiry into the case, according to a party release.SAD leader and former minister Bikram Singh Majithia said the vigilance department was not expected to act against cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who was accused of patronising the main accused in the case. In Mansa, Akali MP Balwinder Singh Bhunder said the perpetrators of the seed scam had played with the lives of farmers. Another leader Daljit Singh Cheema said only custodial interrogation of the spurious seed producer could unravel the entire scam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/akalis-submit-memo-to-dcs-seeking-action-in-seed-scam/story-N4yp6ceK0B4Glf1mQOEm7K.html
28-05-2020||City||Residents being overcharged for wood at Hindon cremation ground, allege councillors||Councillors of the Ghaziabad municipal-corporation have alleged that residents who perform the last rites of their deceased family members at the Hindon cremation ground are being overcharged for wood amid the ongoing lockdown. They alleged that as compared to the ₹500 or ₹600 charge for every quintal of wood earlier, residents need to pay at least ₹900 now for every quintal of wood. The councillors said they have raised the matter with the municipal commissioners and urged him to take action in this regard even as caretaker at the Hindon cremation ground said that the shortage of wood has forced the price to shoot up.“Families of the deceased need to pay at least ₹900 per quintal nowadays for wood that would otherwise around ₹500 per quintal if bought from the local markets and about ₹600 per quintal from markets in Hapur. The costs would be conclusive of transportation charges and cess etc, but now families are being overcharged now. This is happening amid the lockdown when people are already facing all kinds of troubles, we have asked municipal commissioner to take action in this regard,” said Himanshu Mittal, councillor from Kavi Nagar.“The rates now are too high and even ₹100 is charged extra for carrying the wood from the stockpile to the funeral platform. This rampant overcharging is not acceptable and must stop,” he added.According to Acharya Manish Pandit, caretaker at the Hindon cremation ground, last rites for nearly 10 to 15 bodies is performed at the premises daily and each funeral requires three to four quintals of wood.“Currently, we have to charge about ₹900 per quintal for wood, and it is because of non-availability of wood in local markets. We have to procure wood from areas like Kithor in Meerut and Gulaothi in Bulandshahr. The cost has also increased on account of transportation charges and also the increased wages we pay to our workers,” Pandit said.“Just when the lockdown started we were charging about ₹750 per quintal of wood. Until May 13, we had an adequate quantity of wood that was supplied from Meerut and Bulandshahr and after adding all charges, which increased during the lockdown, families had to pay ₹800 for every quintal of wood. Since the availability of wood has gone down, we had to increase the rate of wood to ₹ 900 per quintal. We are providing wood free of cost for unidentified bodies, and also not charging economically backward people anything,” he added.Municipal commissioner Dinesh Chandra said Pandit has been running the Hindon cremation ground for the past 10 years on a contract basis. “He has been managing the affairs of the cremation ground for the last 10 years, and we will review his contract. I have sought a report over the complaints I received from the councillors about residents being overcharged,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/residents-being-overcharged-for-wood-at-hindon-cremation-ground-allege-councillors/story-ZAzbPmUB8WBnzHYvkVQO8I.html
28-05-2020||Noida||Rules confusion: It took admin two days to seal a tower after case is detected||The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration took two days to seal a residential tower, from where a Covid-19 case was reported on May 25. Residents questioned why the administration took two days to act and said it was the patient’s family who informed neighbours about the positive case. The positive patient is a resident of Amrapali Silicon City in Sector 76, a housing society that has 21 residential towers and at least 2,000 families living in them. “On May 25, we got to know that one resident, who works with a private company, had tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to a government hospital in the district. The family of the patient shared the news with us. But we were taken aback that the administration had not promptly sealed the tower or put up a notice informing people about the positive case. In earlier cases, the administration was sealing the premises right after a person was found positive,” Amita Singh, a resident of Silicon City, said.Residents said in two days, many who were not aware of the Covid-19 case, kept using the common space in the society.“Sealing a building promptly helps in preventing the spread of the infection. But if it is delayed, then it defeats the purpose,” Vimal Kumar, another resident, said.Silicon City Social Welfare Association (SCSWA) said that they have sanitized the common spaces such as lifts, and gallery.“The administration has deployed a police contingent and other workers to ensure protocols are followed at the tower. The staff deployed at the tower informed us that they sealed the tower as and when they got the orders,” Naveen Mishra, president, SCSWA, said.Noida city magistrate Uma Shankar Singh said it takes time to seal a building. “There was a discussion on whether we should seal just the tower or the entire society. Later, it was decided that only the tower will be sealed and arriving at that decision took time,” Singh said.District magistrate Suhas LY said, “According to the new containment zone provisions, we only seal the tower if it is a lone case, and an area in a 500m radius if there are more than one case. So it takes time to start the sealing process,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/rules-confusion-it-took-admin-two-days-to-seal-a-tower-after-case-is-detected/story-bbsZRxJc6sy8POLVo1dUiL.html
28-05-2020||Mumbai||Security guard shot dead at Malad plot||A 37-year-old security guard was killed in a shooting incident by an assailant at an open plot near Inorbit mall in Malad (West) on Thursday night. In another incident, a shooting took place a few kilometres away from the first spot but no one was injured. Dilip Sawant, additional commissioner, north region, confirmed the development.According to Malad police, the first incident took place around 8pm at an open plot owned by a builder. The deceased, Rakesh Yadav, wroked as a security guard at the plot. He was fired at by the unnamed assailant with a country-made pistol.Police refused to comment on how many accused were there during the attack or how they travelled to the spot. Yadav was rushed to a nearby hospital where he succumbed to the gun wound. A case of murder has been registered under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Malad police station. In a similar incident, another firing took place a few kilometers away at a building in Prem Nagar. The assailant fired at a windowpane of the building before fleeing the spot. Goregaon police confirmed the incident and said it was misfiring and nobody was injured. While police refused to comment further, sources confirmed that both the shooting incidents were linked.A senior police officer from the zone 11 (Goregaon West to Dahisar West) requesting anonymity, said, “The incident occurred over past personal enmity. We have identified the accused as well and will soon arrest him.”The officer said that over an unknown reason, the deceased Yadav had assaulted the wanted accused’s brother. The wanted accused learnt of the attack and went to the plot where he got into an argument with Yadav and shot him. The unnamed accused reportedly has a past criminal record.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/security-guard-shot-dead-at-malad-plot/story-TLCFQPAitugKUO7dNBvLWK.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Locust threat: Bhiwani, Dadri put on alert||The district administrations of Bhiwani and Dadri on Thursday alerted farmers after locust swarms attacked crops in neighbouring Rajasthan, said officials.Bhiwani deputy commissioner (DC) Ajay Kumar said the agricultural department has formed village-level WhatsApp groups wherein farmers are being given information and issued directions to flag any sighting of the insect. “Locust swarms have reached Sardarshahar in Rajasthan and may enter Bhiwani through Churu and Pilani areas. We are in regular touch with Rajasthan agricultural officials,” he added. Bhiwani deputy director, agriculture, Pratap Singh Sabhrawal, said farmers have been advised to use pesticides such as chlorpyrifos, deltamethrin, diflubenzuron and cyhalothrin to protect their crops, vegetables and trees. “Nearly 200 tractor-mounted sprayers have been arranged in the areas adjoining Rajasthan borders in the district. We have also advised the people to make loud noise by beating drums, thalis, sound producing instruments and tin boxes to drive away the locusts. Moreover, fire officials have also been put on high alert to control the situation. Patwaris and village secretaries have been directed to visit villages and spread information about the locust attack,” he added.Similarly, Dadri administration has also ensured that farmers in the district are well aware of the impending threat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/locust-threat-bhiwani-dadri-put-on-alert/story-5XV7bJ7PnxiDZ9UiTgM6YO.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Doctors decry hike in MBBS fee||The almost 80% fee hike announced for MBBS courses in government medical colleges from the current academic session by the Punjab government has come in for criticism from all quarters.Calling for protests, some doctors called it an attack on youngsters wanting to become doctors, questioning the timing, especially when MBBS students were doing emergency duties in Covid-19 wards in hospitals. “This policy is an attack on future medicos, the fee hike came when the MBBS students are doing their duties in emergency wards and other departments of the hospitals where Covid-19 patients are being treated,” said Dr Jaspinder Partap Singh, president, Resident Doctors’ Association, Government Medical College, Amritsar.“It’s a wrong step as it will put extreme financial burden on the students,” said Dr SS Gill, former vice-chancellor, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences. Students from financially disadvantaged families would be discouraged. Non-meritorious students from rich families will get admissions instead of those who are meritorious, which could impact quality, he said.GOVT SHOULD NOT ‘LOOK FOR PROFITS’ Adding that there were medical students in colleges from rural areas and poor families, he said: “There is a huge shortage of doctors in rural areas in the state. The government should provide medical education to meritorious students for a low fee so we can produce good doctors. This is not the sector where the government should look for profits.”Dr Birgurman Singh, studying in Government Medical College, Patiala, said, “Even at Rs 4.4 lakh, the MBBS fee in Punjab government colleges was one of the highest in the country. Also, the MBBS students of Government Medical College and Hospital, Chandigarh, pay around Rs 1.21 lakh as fee to the government over five years, which is comparatively lower than that of Punjab medical colleges.”INCREASE IN STIPEND ‘OF NO USE’ On the government’s decision to increase the stipend of undergraduate medical and dental students from Rs 9,000 per month to Rs 15,000 per month, Dr Birgurman Singh said, “this hike will serve no purpose now.”Gurbachan Singh, father of an MBBS aspirant, said the fee hike was “shocking”, especially during the coronavirus outbreak. Now only the wealthy can pursue medical education, said Narinder Pal Singh, the father of another MBBS aspirant in Jalandhar. At present, Punjab has 1,225 MBBS seats in eight medical institutions across the state, 625 seats in five private institutions and 600 seats in three government medical colleges (GMCs).The state will also offer 250 additional MBBS seats from this academic session as Gian Sagar Medical College and Government Medical College in Mohali district will start classes.The Punjab cabinet increased the MBBS fee in government and private medical colleges of the state on Wednesday. The fee for the full five-year course in government-run medical colleges from this session will be Rs 7.8 lakh from Rs 4.4 lakh previously (an increase of around 80%).In private medical colleges, the fee for government quota seats has been hiked from Rs 13.4 lakh to Rs 18 lakh (35% increase) for the course. For management quota, the fee is now Rs 47 lakh instead of Rs 40.3 lakh (around 17% increase).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/doctors-decry-hike-in-mbbs-fee/story-SGJZVcfxPDQfSQNgfb3MkL.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab on alert as locust swarms spotted at border Rajasthan villages||The Punjab agriculture department has stepped up vigil to counter a possible locust attack after the swarms of pest were spotted in neighbouring Rajasthan’s Hanumangarh district for the third consecutive day on Thursday.As part of the locust mitigation plan, agriculture officers in various districts of the south Malwa region have been asked to monitor their respective areas, it is learnt. Teams of district officials are visiting villages to sensitise the farmers about the preparedness to check the invading pests.Officials said spray pumps have also been made available to villagers to effectively contain any locust attack.According to the information, mock drills are being conducted at the district level to spray pesticides on trees where locust rest at night.The district authorities have put the firefighting vehicles and improvised tractors to spray chemicals.Officials said the joint teams of the officials from various departments, including agriculture, police and health, have been deployed at various districts to mitigate the locust crisis.Bathinda chief agriculture officer Bahadur Singh Sidhu said a scattered swarm was spotted by the Rajasthan officials in the Goluwala area on Thursday morning.He said no major loss to vegetation was reported in the adjoining state.“As per the information shared with us by the Rajasthan authorities, locusts were spotted at Ruranwali and Kola Farm localities in Hanumangarh district on Tuesday night. It did not fly and it indicated that pest control sprays had a positive impact on the invading pests,” said Sidhu.Fazilka chief agriculture officer Manjit Singh said, “The Sarwar Khuian block in the district is vulnerable to locust attack and the area is under the constant watch of the state and central agencies.State agriculture secretary KS Pannu said the authorities in Fazilka, Bathinda and Muktsar districts that share interstate boundary with Rajasthan have been equipped with ample stock of pesticides.Control rooms have been set up in each district and farmers have been asked to report any locust activity. He said the Markfed has been mandated with manufacturing and supply of pesticides. Buffer stock of chemical spray to eliminate locust has been stationed in Bathinda, Fazilka, Ferozepur, Ludhiana and Jalandhar districts, Pannu added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-on-alert-as-locust-swarms-spotted-at-border-rajasthan-villages/story-pW82gS7BArA8M6xkjtnREJ.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Shunted out for thrashing curfew violators, Kartarpur SHO brought back||Two months after Kartarpur station house officer (SHO), Pushp Bali, was shifted to the police lines for thrashing locals for violation of curfew, he has been reinstated at the same post at the same police station.DGP Dinkar Gupta had ordered the transfer after three videos of him and his team thrashing people, out to buy essentials, went viral on social media. Amid widespread outrage at these cases, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had said, “I have directed @DGPPunjabPolice to post the few policemen who were unreasonable with the people to police lines. They are overshadowing the good work being done by most. I will not tolerate these excesses.” Bali was shifted a day after this statement. SSP Navjot Singh Mahal could not be reached for comments, but SP (organised crime and narcotics) Ravinder Pal Singh Sandhu confirmed the reappointment. Local MLA and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) Jalandhar rural president Gurpartap Wadala said, “The Punjab Police contributed during the pandemic, but there were instances of brutality too, like in the case of the SHO. He deserved punishment after inquiry, but has been reappointed on political considerations,” said MLA and SAD Jalandhar rural president.Another senior police officer said, on condition of anonymity, “On social media, locals are mocking at this decision of the local police. The opposition has also alleged political interference in reappointing the officer at the same station.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/shunted-out-for-thrashing-curfew-violators-kartarpur-sho-brought-back/story-AfCLmbLEb0nrCtbtxAxANM.html
28-05-2020||City||Filmmaker gets movie rights for cycle girl Jyoti’s story||Fifteen-year-old Jyoti Kumari, who earned global attention after carrying her ailing father on a bicycle, peddling a distance of nearly 1,200 km from Gurugram to Darbhanga, has now been approached by film producer and director Vinod Kapri. The director has announced to make a movie on Jyoti’s journey for which he secured the rights on Wednesday.“I am already making a documentary with seven migrants but Jyoti’s story will have altogether a different narrative which could be filmed in a fictional format or in a series”, Kapri said. “The story should be told from the perspective of a daughter and her father and how did the society react to their long journey on cycle,” he said.Confirming the same, Jyoti’s father Mohan Paswan said that he had signed an agreement giving the story rights to the film maker. “ I am happy and I feel proud that the world will know how my daughter brought me home safely covering such a long distance on a bicycle”, he said on Thursday. Paswan signed the paper with Kapri’s local representative on behalf of Bhagirath Film Private Limited (BFPL).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/filmmaker-gets-movie-rights-for-cycle-girl-jyoti-s-story/story-3B0JACeFCI1qXJh5La8awI.html
28-05-2020||City||2 forest officers injured after miscreants pelt stones at them||Two forest officers and one worker from the forest team at Kalwa were injured after some local miscreants pelted stones at them on Thursday. They were on a routine patrol at Parsik area in Kalwa when a group of around 15 people gathered and started pelting stones at them. “The locals started pelting stones and bricks after the officers enquired about the illegal encroachments,” said a forest official from Thane.The three injured employees suffered minor injuries.“The forest officers from Kalwa and Shahabaj were patrolling with forest security guards and workers at Parsik hill near Kalwa when the incident took place. Parsik hill is surrounded by illegal encroachments so regular patrolling is carried out by forest officers. We suspect that the residents staying in these hutments pelted stones and fled,” said a senior official from Thane forest department. The police have registered a case against unknown miscreants. “The case has been registered against the unknown accused under Sections 332 and 353 of Indian Penal Code. We are investigation to arrest the accused,” said VG Darekar, senior police inspector, Kalwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-forest-officers-injured-after-miscreants-pelt-stones-at-them/story-hhiSsi4Z7vg3OD8un00ARI.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana wants to open schools, seeks Union govt’s approval||Haryana government has decided to seek permission from the central government to open schools and start the new academic session with precautions crucial to ensure social distancing and combat the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to education minister Kanwar Pal.On Wednesday, top brass of the Haryana education department held a meeting to chalk out possible plans required to open the schools. But the state government cannot open them without the Centre’s permission. The new academic session generally starts from April 1 every year, but due to the nationwide lockdown, the process could not kick-off this time.Haryana has 8,686 government-run primary, 2,423 middle and 1,154 high schools in its 22 districts.“We are willing to open the government as well as private schools with all the safeguards in place,” education minister Kanwar Pal said.“But, we cannot open the schools until Union government gives its nod. We are in the process of sending a formal request to the Centre, seeking permission to start the academic session,” he added.The education minister said among various ideas discussed in the Wednesday’s meeting was keeping the class strength to 15 students in order to maintain social distance. “We are putting our heads together to fine-tune our plan about the steps to be taken as and when we open the schools. We want to put in place a comprehensive plan keeping in view the safety of students and the teaching staff,” the minister said.Kanwar Pal said he was in favour of allowing the teachers to join duty as a part of the strategy to exit the lockdown. He said even the private schools wanted their teaching staff to resume duty and focus on e-learning.“We cannot take these steps on our own. Yes, I am in favour of asking teachers to join their duty and explore possibilities to help students,” he said.How’s state govt helping students during lockdownWith the ongoing lockdown resulting in academic loss of the students, Haryana government is teaching government schoolchildren of Class 1 to Class 12 across the state through various e-learning platforms.The education department and the State Council of Education Research and Training (SCERT) have launched ‘Ghar Se Padhao Abhiyan’, an e-learning campaign to connect parents and students with over 60,000 teachers through WhatsApp, SMS and phone calls across the state to start academic activities. While math and Hindi lessons are being taught to primary school students, the focus is on science and math in middle and high school.Already, the government has directed the principal/head of a government school, besides a clerk, a computer operator and a peon/gardener to return to duty. The state government had also allowed the private schools of Haryana to open their administrative offices.The Haryana government has also given a onetime amount of ₹2,500 to ₹4,000 to all schools for purchasing soaps, sanitisers, masks and toilet cleaners among other items.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-wants-to-open-schools-seeks-union-govt-s-approval/story-feJc9DgilQxCv9irAYG2LP.html
28-05-2020||Mumbai||Pawar seeks PM Modi’s intervention for revival of real estate sector||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar has expressed concerns over the current situation of the real estate sector and has sought the intervention of Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi. In a recent letter to the PM, Pawar requested Modi to consider the demands made by the sector for its revival.“Amidst the unprecedented Covid-19 pandemic and consequent nationwide lockdown, the real estate sector is in complete breakdown. Massive outflux of labourers, halted work and sales for almost three months, stagnant consumer demand, and impaired economic activities have taken a toll on this industry which contributes substantially to the national gross domestic product (GDP),” stated the letter written on May 27, which Pawar shared on Twitter.Pawar said that the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of Indian (CREDAI), in an open letter on May 24, had made recommendations such as one-time restructuring, additional institutional funding, waiver of penal interest, policy innovations to trigger consumer demand, controlling cartelisation of raw material, changing criterion of affordability for GST applicability and operationalisation of SWAMIH (Special Window for Completion of Construction of Affordable and Mid-Income Housing) fund.“The detailed presentation is self-explanatory. I shall be grateful if you personally look into the matter and initiate necessary measures for revival of one of the most important sectors of the economy,” the NCP chief wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pawar-seeks-pm-modi-s-intervention-for-revival-of-real-estate-sector/story-dWHGG0GCinFdrS4m9XOPoJ.html
28-05-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: In a first, migrant workers land home on chartered flight||Shankar Mandal, a migrant labourer working as tiles fitter in Mumbai, was nervous Thursday morning as he boarded a flight for the first time.Mandal, a resident of Hazraribag road in Jharkhand, boarded the flight along with his family and 10 other relatives from Mumbai for Ranchi. The special chartered flight of Air Asia, carrying 174 migrant workers, landed at Ranchi airport around 8.20 am Thursday.Mandal said, “I never thought I would travel by air ever. I thank people who arranged this for us.” His wife Rita Devi said, “I was scared when the flight started taking off and when it landed. It was a unique experience, a dream come true.”This was the first flight that carried migrant workers to Jharkhand, which has seen more than 3.5 lakh migrant workers arriving by special trains, buses and private vehicles since May 1.Most of the migrants said they had started suffering after a month of lockdown, as they had no money to survive. Aslam Ansari, resident of Nawada in Jharkhand’s Giridih district, who came from Mumbai with four children and his wife, said, “I worked as tailor there. But I was jobless since March 22. One month into the lockdown, we could not even afford to buy food. We planned on returning but had no option to come. We even thought to return on foot. Later, one of my friends said a flight for migrant workers is leaving for Jharkhand after which I filled a form for the same and got a call for the journey.”The return of migrants on a flight was possible by collective effort of a group of alumni of National Law School, Bengaluru, who raised funds for the journey. The six alumni were Suhaan Mukerji, Priyanka Roy, Arkaja Singh, Shyel Trehan, Pria Sharma and Shuva Mandal.Mukerji, a Delhi-based lawyer, said, “Initially, we were trying to arrange buses for the migrant workers. However, on comparison, we found the total cost of flight, about 11 lakh, was not much higher than the bus. So, we decided to send them by flight and started raising funds.”Asked why they chose to send migrants from Jharkhand, Mukerji said, “We came to know that 45 people from Jharkhand were stuck in Mumbai and booked 45 seats in a regular flight. Unfortunately, the flight got cancelled. We then decided to get permission for a special relief flight to overcome the restriction scheduled flights.”“We had sought support from the Jharkhand government for the migrants after their landing in Ranchi. Chief minister Hemant Soren told me he would monitor the arrangements. The state government arranged buses for the workers to reach their native places,” he said.Soren later said the gesture strengthened the spirit of humanity. “Today, 174 migrant labourers returned home safely due to the untiring efforts of the alumni of National Law School, Bangalore, and officials of the government of Jharkhand and Maharashtra. The chief minister has thanked the Alumni Network of National Law School, Bangalore (ANNLSB) for this noble and unique work,” a statement from the CM office said.As thousands of migrant workers are stuck in different parts of the country and are returning home on special trains, the state government had, earlier this month, twice written to the Centre seeking permission to operate special charter flights to bring back hundreds of workers from the state stuck in Andaman & Nicobar Islands, North East states and in Ladakh region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-in-a-first-migrant-workers-land-home-on-chartered-flight/story-fLPvpncbw6tSVaUAlFQQ2N.html
28-05-2020||Patna||An ill-fated journey: Video of toddler with dead mother moves Patna HC||The Patna High Court Thursday took suo motu cognizance of reports on the viral heart-rending video showing a two-and-a-half-year-old child trying to wake up her dead mother by pulling the makeshift shroud at the railway station in Muzaffarpur. The incident had happened on Monday“This warrants intervention by us in exercise of our jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India,” said the bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice S Kumar. Describing the incident as “rather shocking and unfortunate”, the bench requested advocate Ashish Giri to assist the court as amicus curiae. The bench also asked additional advocate genera SD Yadav to ascertain from the nominated standing counsel for the state of Bihar in the Supreme Court, as to whether the apex court has taken cognizance of this particular incident or not. It posted the matter for 2.15 pm Thursday.In the afternoon session, Yadav said that no information could be ascertained from the standing counsel in the apex court or the solicitor general of India. He, however, told the court that deceased was mentally unstable and had died a natural death during the course of her journey from Surat (Gujarat) and it was reported to Railway authorities by her sister and brother-in-law Md Wazir. “The deceased, who had been deserted by her husband, had only one child,” he said.Yadav said that after recording Wazir’s statement, the woman’s body was allowed to be taken home. “No post- mortem examination was conducted and no FIR was registered. The district administration provided an ambulance up to the place of destination. The orphaned child is in safe custody and guardianship of the sister of the deceased,” he said, adding that his statements were based on the instructions so received and the recorded statement of Md Wazir.Awaiting instructions from the standing counsel in the Supreme Court, the bench fixed June 3 as the next date of hearing. “Let complete facts be made known to the Court, on the personal affidavit of the concerned principal secretaries, before the next date,” it said.Earlier, the court asked several questions, viz. whether the postmortem examination of the body was conducted? If yes, what was the cause of death? Did the woman actually die of hunger? Was she travelling alone with her sibling? If not, who all were her companions? Who is now taking care of the children/sibling(s), who unfortunately lost their mother?It issued notices to the union of India through the principal secretary, disaster management, New Delhi, the state of Bihar through its chief secretary, the departments of health & family welfare, disaster management, home, social justice through their principal secretaries, the Indian Railways and the IG (Police).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/an-ill-fated-journey-video-of-toddler-with-dead-mother-moves-patna-hc/story-9O5BafI5pgn7Xqzn76GnZO.html
28-05-2020||Gurugram||Two private hospitals issued notice for refusing Covid-19 patient treatment||The district administration on Thursday issued a show-cause notice to two private hospitals in the city for allegedly denying treatment to Covid-19 patients.The district administration, on May 25, issued an order making it mandatory for all private hospitals and nursing homes to treat Covid-19 patients who require critical health services. None of the private hospitals in the city can refuse admission to a Covid-19 patient who is already undergoing treatment for other health issues. Instances have been reported where patients have been denied treatment after they have tested positive for the SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19). The show cause notice issued by deputy commissioner Amit Khatri to the two private hospitals, namely Park Hospital and Paras Hospital, stated that both the hospitals had not complied with the order.A rapid response team member, who is aware of the matter, said, “One hospital allegedly asked a man to leave in the middle of the night after he was tested Covid-19 positive almost two days back. The other hospital allegedly refused to admit a patient. The patient who was asked to leave in the middle of the night reached out to us and the district administration.”An official statement issued by Paras Hospital said, “We are following all the ICMR guidelines regarding hospital admissions and we haven’t refused any cases till now which requires medical attention.”“We have also formed a multidisciplinary committee comprising doctors and staff from all specialties to guide with standard operating processes to evaluate coronavirus in suspected patients. We take the biggest health threat, the coronavirus pandemic, very seriously. Our doctors are providing round-the-clock telephonic, online and face-to-face consultations to the patients following all safety protocols,” it said.An official of Park Hospital, who preferred anonymity, said, “We have not received any notice from the district administration. We might get it tomorrow (Friday). But none of the Covid-19 patients have been denied treatment in our hospital. At least five Covid-19 positive patients are currently admitted while three or four suspected cases are also being treated. The hospital has a 12-bed isolation ward along with five ventilators. We will respond accordingly, once we receive the notice,”The administration in its order has given the hospitals time till Friday to explain their stand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-private-hospitals-issued-notice-for-refusing-covid-19-patient-treatment/story-8v5a6LGzKGVGIW80NKqyTP.html
28-05-2020||Mumbai||Resume bus services before starting trains, say experts||Citizen group Mumbai Mobility Forum (MMF) has submitted suggestions to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner Iqbal Chahal, of how public transport may be opened up in the city once lockdown restrictions are eased.One of MMF’s suggestions is to increase bus services while local trains remain inoperative. Transport expert and convenor of MMF Ashok Datar said, “As more buses are introduced, we will also learn methods of social distancing in public transport. That can later be incorporated in local trains.”In its letter to BMC, MMF wrote, “We can mobilise 6,000 idle school buses as Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) has only 3,000 buses. School buses are idle and can be used during peak hours at lower cost. Operation of bus lanes on western express highway and eastern express highway for a few months will reduce traffic load on roads, increase the speed, and will work well for working class and low-income citizenry.”MMF has suggested BMC raise fines from Rs 200 to Rs 500 under the Motor Vehicle Act. Higher fines would discourage people from taking out private vehicles, said MMF.The gap between the requirement and supply of on-street parking lots was also highlighted by MMF. “Today, on-street parking lots are under 80. We need at least 600 to make an impact on driving and parking behaviour. … Electronic payment and mobile application to locate idle parking spaces can be introduced,’’ it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/resume-bus-services-before-starting-trains-say-experts/story-HTpjrhIWdGB6Aqsypxf7xL.html
28-05-2020||Mumbai||99% of ICU beds in Mumbai are occupied: BMC data||Amid rising Covid-19 cases in the city, almost all intensive care unit (ICU) beds available for Covid-19 treatment are occupied. As of May 28, of the 645 Covid Care ICU beds, 99% were occupied. A total of 65% of the 4,292 beds with oxygen support were occupied, while 72% of 373 ventilators were in use, data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) showed.Mumbai on Thursday reported 1,438 coronavirus cases and 38 deaths. The total number of cases now stands at 35,485, with 1,135 deaths. According to BMC, six of the 24 wards have recorded more than 2,000 Covid-19 cases. The G-North ward, which comprises areas like Dharavi, Dadar and Mahim, tops the list with 2,728 cases, followed by E, F-North, L, H-East and K-West wards with 2,438, 2,377, 2,321, 2,094 and 2,049 cases, respectively.A 57-year-old fireman from Mumbai Fire Brigade succumbed to Covid-19 on Thursday. This is the second death from the fire brigade. On May 24, a 58-year-old fireman attached to the Gowalia Tank fire brigade died of Covid-19. So far, 41 fire brigade staffers have tested positive. Of them, four are in ICU and 14 staffers have been quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/99-of-icu-beds-in-mumbai-are-occupied-bmc-data/story-MtQAYIFSpqO3a6GA9UpvmJ.html
28-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi cites “element of privilege” for 70% tax on liquor||The Delhi government has informed the Delhi high court that trade or consumption of liquor is not a fundamental right and that the state is empowered to regulate the sale of liquor or impose a 70% special corona fee on the maximum retail price (MRP) since there is an “element of privilege” attached to it. The Delhi government also told the court that it had collected a total of ₹227.44 crore (inclusive of ₹127 crore from the special corona fee) as excise revenue between May 4 and May 25. It pointed out that despite the corona fee, its excise revenue collection was far lower than the f ₹425.24 crore earnings registered in May 2019. The order to levy a 70% ‘special corona fee’ on the MRP of every liquor bottle was issued by the Delhi government on May 4. The government had, on May 22, deliberated over revoking the cess after several representatives form the liquor industry demanded a roll-back. However, the government decided to defer the roll-back plan until next month at least. Opposing several pleas challenging the imposition of 70% cess on liquor, advocate Gautam Narayan, the additional standing counsel for the government, told the court that owing to the lockdown, the revenue which the state earned through GST/ VAT was reduced by 90% in the month of April 2020. “A citizen has no fundamental right to do trade or business in liquor or for that matter also to consume liquor. On the other hand, the state has the authority and jurisdiction to regulate (including prohibit—totally or partially) such trade and commerce as well as to regulate the sale, purchase and consumption of liquor,” the affidavit filed by the government read.“In other words, there is an element of privilege viz a viz sale/dealing in liquor or for that matter consumption of liquor, which the state is free to accord and regulate under the state excise law….. Accordingly, the state is also free to impose and recover a price for the grant of such privilege,” the affidavit stated. The Delhi government also contended that owing to the clampdown on all economic activities due to Covid-19 lockdown, “the revenue of Delhi government (which primarily comes from VAT/GST collection, state excise and stamp duty) shrunk by almost 90% in April 2020 and the total collections dwindled to a mere ₹300 crore as opposed to approximately ₹4,000 crore in the corresponding month of 2019”.According to the affidavit, between May 4 and 25, the total sale of operational liquor vends has been ₹187 crore, which is way too less as compared to the sale figures of May 2019, as the number of shops operational last year were around 800, of which only 40% are currently open due to lockdown restrictions.The matter will be heard on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-cites-element-of-privilege-for-70-tax-on-liquor/story-CSlOrCkOb6XNLztIy5gd5I.html
28-05-2020||Gurugram||Haryana caps Covid-19 test rate at ₹2,500 in private labs for government collected samples||The Haryana government has fixed the price of reverse polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test used to detect coronavirus disease (Covid-19) between ₹ 2,500 and ₹3,950 after negotiations with three authorised private labs that are actively conducting tests in the state. This cost, which includes logistics and cost of transporting the samples, is lower than the ₹4, 500 which was the ceiling price fixed earlier by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to conduct RT-PCR tests.The ICMR on May 25 had allowed the state governments to negotiate with approved private labs and fix mutually agreeable prices for testing samples. The Haryana health department on May 15 has signed memorandum of understanding (MoU) with three labs – Core, Pathfinder and Modern – to conduct RT-PCR tests at the revised rates.As per the order issued by Haryana Medical Services Corporation Limited (HMSCL) on Thursday, ₹2,500 will be charged for every sample if the health department collects its and uses their own transportation to deliver it to one of the three labs. In case, the sample is collected by the staff at but it is picked up by private labs for testing, the price will increase to ₹3,200. It will further increase to ₹3,950, if the sample collection, logistics, testing and reporting is done by the private labs completely. These rates have been fixed as one-third for screening and two-third for confirmatory test.Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health department said, “We had entered into negotiations with three private labs even before the ICMR issued the orders and fixed the rates. Three labs- Core, Pathfinder and Model – had agreed to these rates on May 15.”As per the ICMR letter issued on May 25, based on the cost of imported kits and efforts involved in carrying out the test, the upper limit for a single test was set at ₹4,500 in March. However, since testing supplies had stabilised and varied options of testing materials/kits including indigenous ones being available, prices had become competitive and are undergoing reduction, the letter had said.The letter said the earlier suggested upper ceiling of ₹4,500 may not be applicable now ,and states have to negotiate with private labs and fix up mutually agreeable prices for samples being sent by the government.In Haryana—besides Rohtak, Hisar, Sonepat, Karnal, Nallhar and Panchkula where government labs are conducting RT-PCR tests— a bulk of samples are being sent to authorised private labs to be tested against Covid-19 testing. According to an official in the HMSCL, who is privy to the matter said, “Samples go in bulk to these labs, which includes at least ₹700 transportion cost for every sample. It is up to the district level officers to opt for any of these packages based on the proximity of labs,” he said.According to Arora, nearly 99% of the samples in the states are collected at government hospitals which are further transported to these private labs for testing.Though seven labs authorised by ICMR are allowed to conduct RT-PCR in the state, three labs have signed an MoU with the Haryana government so far. As per the MoU the labs will have to collect samples and test it within a defined time period. As per the norms laid down, labs need to ensure samples are collected from a spot within two hours and test results are delivered within 36 hours.The MOU also says that if the results of a sample are not delivered within the stipulated time, the government would deduct 20% of the testing cost of the sample.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-caps-covid-19-test-rate-at-2-500-in-private-labs-for-government-collected-samples/story-orSxk5k3KEeTyniYv6sztL.html
28-05-2020||Mumbai||48 hours and over 130 calls later, Covid-positive mother and son from Sion get hospital beds||Despite attempts by the civic body to ensure sufficient beds for the growing number of Covid-19 patients, many continue to find it difficult to get treatment in the city. Recently, a family struggled for almost 48 hours as it tried to get beds for two relatives.A 32-year-old Sion resident’s mother, 52, and brother, 33, tested positive on May 13 morning at a private lab after complaints of throat pain, breathlessness, high fever, and loss of appetite.What followed for two days thereafter were constant calls on the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) helpline and several other hospitals to get them admitted, the 32-year-old man recalls.“We were told by four different hospitals that there are no beds. While people from BMC did keep calling us, they could not help us find beds. One of the BMC employees also told me that I had called them almost 132 times,” he said.The mother and brother were finally admitted to KJ Somaiya Hospital on May 14 midnight after they got in touch with a relative, a doctor from Pune. “It was a relief but it proved to be very expensive. I had to pay ₹25,000 every day for my brother and ₹17,000 for my mother. Till date we have paid ₹1.75 lakh and ₹1.50 lakh respectively, for each of them,” the Sion resident said.Though the family has been home since the lockdown began, the man said his mother had stepped out to buy fruits and vegetables a few times. “We were panicking. It was a complete mess for two days when all we did was call different people to somehow get them admitted,” he said, adding that he is now awaiting test results for his father, who has been admitted to a hospital in Chembur due to gastroenteritis.The rising number of cases in Mumbai has stretched thin the availability of beds at the city hospitals in the last few weeks. F/N ward (which includes Sion) has 2,377 cases as of May 27, data by BMC shows. A civic official said that the mounting cases are making it difficult for BMC to cope with the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/48-hours-and-over-130-calls-later-covid-positive-mother-and-son-from-sion-get-hospital-beds/story-jdTl7SwqcUDQx77U5gelsI.html
28-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC allows shifting 955 Tablighi foreign attendees from quarantine centres||The Delhi High Court on Thursday allowed for 955 foreigners who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin in March from quarantine centres to alternative accommodations after the Centre, Delhi government and Delhi Police said they had no objection.The bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar gave the order after receiving the status report from the Delhi government’s revenue department. The report said that the central government had not arrested or detained of the foreigners, who are accused of violating visa rules and endangering lives by attending the congregation when the government had restricted such public gatherings due to the spread of Covid-19. It also added that a case has been registered and charge sheets have been filed against them.The foreigners were accommodated in quarantine centres across the city. Appearing for the petitioners, senior advocates Rebecca John and advocate Ashima Mandla, said that the foreigners had tested negative for Covid-19 and requested that they be sent to an alternative place of accommodations as they were being “illegally detained” in these centres. They submitted addresses of these alternative accommodations to the court.In its status report, the Delhi government gave its No Objection Certificate (NOC) for shifting them. Counsels for the Delhi Police and Centre also said they had no objection to shift them. The counsels also said that the foreigners were directed to not leave the city without prior intimation to the authorities.Meanwhile, another bench of the Delhi High Court adjourned the hearing on a petition seeking transfer of the case filed against Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad to the National Investigation Agency (NIA), to June 18.A division bench of Justice Siddharth Mridul and Justice Talwant Singh adjourned the matter as the counsel appearing for the petitioner didn’t appear on time through video-conferencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hc-allows-shifting-955-tablighi-foreign-attendees-from-quarantine-centres/story-eua7W8v36kx3H0RCmTDmhP.html
28-05-2020||Noida||Residents, developers hassled by containment zone plan, urge govt to revise it||Residents and developers have demanded that the Uttar Pradesh government and the Gautam Budh Nagar administration change the ongoing containment zone plan that is “generally fit for villages and small towns and not for group housing towers in Noida and Greater Noida”.Uttar Pradesh chief secretary RK Tiwari Thursday said he will address their genuine grievances pertaining to the containment zone plan.On Tuesday, residents of Supertech Ecovillage 1 had held a protest against the authority’s move to seal the entire society after three Covid-19 cases were reported from the housing complex. They also ran social media campaigns highlighting how the restrictions were hampering their work. This prompted the district administration to redefine containment zone plan for high-rises by late Tuesday. The administration said if there is only one case, then officials will only seal the tower concerned. However, if ther are ore than one case, then all tower s in a 500m radius will be sealed for 21 days.But residents argue that since members of a family are likely to contract the disease from the one positive person, the change in rules is of no benefit to them as the locality invariably ends up being sealed.Apart from residents of Supertech Ecovillage 1 in Sector 1, residents of Panchsheel Greens 2 in Sector 16 and Hynish society in Sector 1, Greater Noida West, have demanded that only those towers, from where the Covid-19 positive cases are reported, should be sealed instead of the entire society. They said as offices, industrial units and factories have reopened, working professionals are unable to go to offices and are on the verge of losing jobs as a result of the containment zone plan, which they termed was “faulty”.Supertech Ecovillage 1 has a total 61 towers of which 20 are under-construction and 41 towers are lived in by at least 3,200 families. “One resident, a journalist, tested positive for Covid-19 on May 23 and, later, his wife and child also tested positive. Subsequently, the administration has sealed all 61 towers stopping the movement of all 3200 families. Instead, they should have sealed just the one tower where the journalist lived and allowed the others to go about their daily lives as usual. People would lose jobs if these towers will remain sealed for the next 21 days, and that is only if no fresh case is reported or else the sealing will be extended,” Abhishek Kumar, a resident of this society and president of Noida Extension Flat Owners Welfare Association, said.Similarly, the administration has sealed all 22 towers of Panchsheel Greens 2 and 12 towers of Hynish society in after more than one case was reported from these societies.“After our society was sealed, my son cannot go to his office and we have to walk in this heat to fetch essential items. It would have been better if the administration had sealed only the tower from which the Covid-19 cases were reported,” Rani Mahajan, a senior citizen of Panchsheel Greens, said.Developers have requested district magistrate Suhas LY and Tiwari to change containment zone plan as they are unable to carry out construction work on the remaining towers.“We have 400 migrant construction labourers at our Hynish and Panshcheel Green 2 site. If they stay without work at the site for a long time, then they will return to their villages. Since even under-construction towers are sealed,our business is suffering hugely,” Ashok Chaudhary, promoter, Panchsheel Group, said.DM Suhas said, “According to the state government guidelines, we seal a tower if there is one Covid-19 case. And if there is more than one case, then we treat the area in a 500m radius and declare it a containment zone. Also, an area of 250m, outside the containment zone, is declared a buffer zone. We have to follow the state government guidelines in this regard. But in view of developers and residents’ demands, we have sent a report to the government and asked it to reconsider modifying the rules.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/residents-developers-hassled-by-containment-zone-plan-urge-govt-to-revise-it/story-pqGsBPkrE9ZaaqNcL7FeYO.html
28-05-2020||Delhi||Conduct random pat-down searches to detect non-metallic explosives, BCAS tells CISF||One of every five passengers lined up for a security check at the Delhi airport may randomly be asked to step aside for a thorough pat-down by CISF personnel, a recent circular issued by the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) said. Because the CISF is resorting to only contactless frisking, using metal detectors, the latest order will ensure that no “non-metallic explosive” is sneaked into the airport, the circular said.According to the BCAS circular, accessed by HT, “at least one out of every five persons shall be subjected to pat-down search on a continuous random basis on the reasoned selection and in a consistent manner, particularly to mitigate the threat from any non-metallic explosives (sic).”The directions were announced as a standard operating procedure (SOP) to be followed while screening passengers at airports as the government resumed flight operations in the country May 25 onwards.“The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel, who protect the airport, were asked to maintain a safe distance from flyers and use hand-held or door frame metal detectors to frisk them during security checks. They were also directed to tell passengers to put all metallic things in a tray on the x-ray scanner before stepping in for a security check. That tray is to be sanitised after every single use,” a senior officer from the Delhi airport, who wished not to be named, said. The officer added, however, that there was always a threat of someone trying to sneak in with non-metallic explosives, chemicals, or other harmful weapons that may remain undetected by the metal detectors. “The CISF has therefore been directed to identify suspects randomly, yet reasonably, and ask them to cooperate with a thorough pat-down search,” the officer added.Another officer privy to the security of the airport said the direction of the BCAS is also strategic because the security plan of the Delhi airport allows one to reach up to the Security Hold Area (SHA) without any scanning or frisking. “If we solely resort to metal detectors, it may create a security loophole. We also have armed plainclothes men inside the terminal to keep an eye on suspects,” the officer said, requesting anonymity. The latest BCAS order also mentions that if a metal detector raises an alarm because of some metal in a passenger’s shoes, he/she will also have to take the shoes off. It also said that if sealed or otherwise unidentifiable packages are found on any person, they must be checked using x-ray scanners.A CISF spokesperson said the order issued by the BCAS will be diligently followed.Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport also resumed its flight operations on Monday with 118 arrivals and 125 departures, however, at least 82 incoming or departing flights had to be cancelled. While a number of passengers were stranded due to cancelled flights, those who boarded the planes, said the security checks were smooth.The next day on Tuesday, the airport witnessed only 25 cancellations and handled 137 departures and 140 arrivals.On Thursday there were 147 total scheduled departures with 145 arrivals, while on Wednesday the airport handled 129 departures and arrivals each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/conduct-random-pat-down-searches-to-detect-non-metallic-explosives-bcas-tells-cisf/story-x0jrogvJnIbjMCP9cF8PMO.html
28-05-2020||Delhi||All departments to clear pending bills of govt lawyers by May 31||The Delhi government has directed all departments to clear the pending bills of lawyers associated with the government as counsels and panel advocates by May 31.The revenue, law and justice department of the government issued an order in this regard last week to all departments. The order, which HT has seen, has a note attached by Delhi’s law minister who had asked the departments last month to clear all dues.The minister’s note said, “Due to the novel coronavirus and the consequent lockdown resulting in non-functioning of the Delhi High Court many counsels, including panel counsels, are facing acute financial hassles. They need to pay salary to their staff. It is, therefore, essential that their pending bills are cleared at the earliest. [sic]” A senior government official confirmed that the bills are to be paid by May 31.Delhi has one senior standing counsel (civil), one standing counsel (civil), eight additional standing counsels (civil), one standing counsel (criminal), eight additional standing counsel (criminal), 77 panel advocates for High Court, 47 penal advocates for district courts and city courts, eight panel advocates for central administrative tribunal and nine panel advocates for the VAT appellate tribunal, government records showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/all-departments-to-clear-pending-bills-of-govt-lawyers-by-may-31/story-CUILxgT3N3lV16fY6HjIiM.html
28-05-2020||Delhi||Three jal board employees test positive||Three Delhi Jal Board (DJB) employees posted at its headquarters in Karol Bagh have been diagnosed with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to officials. “As three employees working in the office of the law officer, DJB has been found Covid-19 positive [sic],” an order issued by the DJB read on Thursday.Adhering to the government’s guidelines to contain the spread of the disease, the second floor of the Varunalaya Complex, the headquarters of the DJB, will “remain close from the second half of Thursday to Saturday”, the order read.The authorities concerned have also been directed to get the entire headquarters complex sanitised immediately.On May 17, another DJB employee had tested positive for Covid-19, following which 10 of the board’s staff members in Tagore Garden had been quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/three-jal-board-employees-test-positive/story-uY1EmfFjPF7E5h9HDBRqIO.html
28-05-2020||City||Set up help desks for PDS beneficiaries: Delhi HC||New DelhiThe Delhi High Court on Thursday told the Delhi government to put a system in place within a week to ensure charges levied by atta chakkis (neighbourhood flour mills) for grinding wheat are borne by the state.A bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad directed the government to ensure adequate number of mills are identified in each district where non-PDS beneficiaries can go grind wheat without paying.The court said the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) 1301 helpline is a “disaster” that needs to be addressed immediately, while noting that they had tried the helpline numbers themselves but none could connect.“The helpline shall be made functional by the end of this day. The state is cautioned that we propose to personally verify if both the helplines are functioning, by making calls on a random basis,” the court.It said they had personally dialled the Food Helpline No ‘1967’ several times and requested asked the lawyers but no one could connect except ASG Jain. It directed the Delhi government to increase the number of persons manning the food helpline to two for each district.The court was hearing pleas that contended people are not being able to get ration from fair price shops as they were closed. The petitions said due to the absence of any information in the public domain on the distribution of rations in terms of who all have availed of the stipulated quantity, there is no way to determine whether they have been provided to the intended persons or whether there has been any diversion.On Thursday, the counsel for one of the petitioners said the supply of grain to non-PDF beneficiaries was futile as they do not have the money to take it to a local mill to grind it into flour.The court directed the Delhi government to set up help desks at 588 non-PDS distribution centres within five days to assist beneficiaries, noting it would be a serious challenge for the economically distressed sections to apply for e-coupons at the links provided by the Delhi government for issuing ration.Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Sanjay Jain and additional standing counsel (Delhi government) said the helpdesks would be done within five days.Appearing for NGO Delhi Rozi Roti Abhiyan Adhikaar, senior advocate Sanjay Parikh and advocate Prasanna S, told the court that the beneficiaries were facing a great deal of difficulty as they do not know who to approach and where to get these Emergency Food Relief coupons.The court directed the Delhi government to issue an advisory to all MPs and MLAs to identify particular locations where help desks can be set up by them for streamlining distribution of the coupons within a specified timeline.“The details of the locations identified, shall be uploaded on the website of the Delhi Government within five working days. The information shall be disseminated through print and electronic media, including by putting up information on notice boards at all 588 designated non-PDS centres for the information of the concerned beneficiaries and to enable them to approach the Help desks in their areas,” the court said in a seven-page order.The court asked the commissioner, food supply, Delhi government to file an affidavit, updating the action taken within two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/set-up-help-desks-for-pds-beneficiaries-delhi-hc/story-QhtkB0LuhELqVRNeX6aoVP.html
28-05-2020||Ranchi||‘Dream come true’, say migrants as they deboard special flight at Ranchi airport||Shankar Mandal, a migrant labourer who worked as tiles fitter in Mumbai, was nervous on Thursday morning, as he was to catch a flight for the first time in his life from Mumbai airport, which he never thought would be possible even in his wildest dream.Mandal, a resident of Hazraribag road in Jharkhand, boarded the flight along with his family and 10 other relatives from Mumbai for Birsa Munda airport Ranchi. The special chartered relief flight of Air Asia, carrying 174 migrant workers, landed at Ranchi airport at 8.20am on Thursday.“I saw flight flying over my head many a time in Mumbai. But, I never thought that I would be an air passenger ever, as I am a migrant worker and I know my limit. I would like to thank the persons who arranged this for us. They appeared as God for us, as we had exhausted all our savings in the lockdown,” Mandal said.“Sky seemed like heaven”From Mandal’s wife Rita Devi , it was a dream come true moment. “I was scared when the flight started taking off. I felt similar experience while landing. It was a unique experience, as the sky seemed like heaven,” she said.This was the first flight which carried migrant workers to Jharkhand. The state saw arrival of more than 3.5 lakh migrant workers by special trains, buses and individual vehicles since May 1.Boarding a flight was first experience for most of the migrant workers, who were working as carpenter, construction labourer, auto driver, car cleaner, tiles fitter, fitter, electrical mechanic, furniture maker and tailor in Mumbai. It was a struggle surviving in the city with no money to eat after the lockdown, the migrants said.“After one month of lockdown, we started facing crisis of even food. We thought to return to Jharkhand but had no option to come,” said Aslam Ansari, who deboarded the flight in Ranchi with his wife and four kids. Aslam Ansari, a resident of Nawada in Jharkhand’s Giridih district, worked as a tailor in Mumbai and was out of job since March 22.“Thought of walking to Jharkhand along with wife and kids”“Once, we thought to return home walking along with the family members. In the meantime, one of my friends said that a flight for migrant workers is leaving for Jharkhand. Then, I filled a form for the same and got a call for the journey,” Ansari said.The flight journey was possible by the effort of a group of alumni of National Law School, Bengaluru, who raised funds for the journey. The six alumni Suhaan Mukerji, Priyanka Roy, Arkaja Singh, Shyel Trehan, Pria Sharma and Shuva Mandal played a crucial role to make this happen.“Initially, we were trying for buses to send the migrant workers. But, when we compared the cost, we found flight cost is not much higher than the bus. The total cost was around Rs 11 lakh. Then, we decided to send them by flight and started raising fund,” said Mukerji, a Delhi based lawyer, over a phone call.When asked why they chose Jharkhand migrant workers, Mukerji said, “We came to know that 45 people from Jharkhand are stuck in Mumbai. We got 45 seats in regular flight. Unfortunately, the flight got cancelled. We, then, decided let’s take full aircraft and moved the permission for relief flight so the restriction of schedule flight we can overcome. This way, we sent full plane.”“We had sought support for the migrant workers after their landing in Ranchi. Jharkhand CM called me and said he would monitor the things. The government there arranged buses for the workers for various destinations,” Mukerji added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/dream-come-true-say-migrants-as-they-deboard-special-flight-at-ranchi-airport/story-1kWTPF7eddUYlB9aDMmMcL.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab keeping critical mortality rate low at 1.3%||Punjab has done well in keeping all critical Covid-19 mortality rate amongst the lowest at 1.3%, with majority of those fatalities resulting from co-morbidity.Out of 40 unfortunate instances so far occurring mostly in patients over 50 years, 31 persons (77%) were afflicted with serious underlying illness like end-stage kidney disease and cancer, HIV besides uncontrolled diabetes and high blood pressure, said principal secretary, health and family welfare, Anurag Agarwal.Chronic illnesses like heart disease, hypertension, diabetes and obesity were major associated illnesses as contributing factors in the remaining 23% of cases, he said, pointing out there were very a few cases which had no underlying chronic illness. Underlining scientific, systematic and aggressive contact tracing coupled with the effective enforcement of lockdown, Agarwal said that doubling rate of Covid-19 in Punjab has been about 100 days for last few days which is very encouraging.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-keeping-critical-mortality-rate-low-at-1-3/story-lMSHmWcACwH9oTnt2AjMNL.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Suspended for nearly 3 months, Indo-Afghan trade resumes via Wagah border||Over two months after the Centre suspended cross-border trade and movement of passengers through the Integrated Check Post (ICP), Attari, as a precautionary measure to check the spread of coronavirus, trade between India and Afghanistan resumed on Thursday. “A truck of imported dry fruit from Afghanistan crossed over at the ICP, Attari,” said Amritsar Customs commissioner Dipak Kumar Gupta. A senior official of Land Port Authority of India (LPAI) posted at the ICP said, “As soon as the truck entered the ICP, its driver’s thermal screening was conducted by a doctor that the Punjab health department had sent by maintaining social distance. Labourers have been provided with masks, gloves and sanitisers.”LPAI’s ICP in-charge Sukhdev Singh said they had spray-painted white circles for the labourers to keep a distance of six feet between them. He added the staff have also been provided with masks, gloves, sanitisers and personal protective equipment (PPEs). “All advisories issued by the government are being issued,” he added. The ICP witnesses an annual trade of over Rs 1,000 crore trade between India and Afghanistan. Federation of Karyana and Dry Fruit Association president Anil Mehra said, “We have come to know that several Indian traders have placed their orders for importing various items from Afghanistan. So, trade will definitely pick up in the next few days.” He added that trade with Pakistan, suspended in the wake of the Pulwama attack in February 2019, also needed to be resumed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/suspended-for-nearly-3-months-indo-afghan-trade-resumes-via-wagah-border/story-e6WueCX7AT5hO1sXjFgIoL.html
28-05-2020||Gurugram||Deadline for real estate projects extended by six months||In a major relief to real estate developers in the city, the Haryana real estate regulatory authority (H-Rera) on Tuesday extended the registration and completion dates of the real estate projects registered by the authority by six months. The decision was taken following an advisory issued by the union ministry of housing and urban affairs on May 13, regarding the grant of relief to the real estate sector, which had been hit hard by the lockdown imposed to check the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). In the absence of such an extension, the developers would have had to pay a heavy penalty for the late delivery of apartments or houses.Dr KK Khandelwal, Chairman, H-Rera said that as per the advisory issued by the ministry, the authority has decided to extend the registration and completion dates of real estate projects automatically by six months. “No fresh applications need to be made and the extension of timelines of all statutory compliances is automatic,” he said. The authority in its order said that in view of the situation created by the Covid-19 pandemic and the consequent nationwide lockdown from March 25, an urgent meeting of Central Advisory Council was held on April 29 and, as per its recommendations, the ministry had issued an advisory regarding extension of timelines of all statutory compliances due to the ‘Force Majeure’ clause under the provisions of Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act 2016 on May 13, 2020.Developers in Gurugram, meanwhile, said that while extending the deadline will help them but they wanted the state government to help the sector more as the industry was facing difficulties. “We want the government to reschedule payments of EDC/IDC (external and infrastructure development charges) for the time period. The payment of all other levies and fees should also be relaxed and for the time being. All penalties should be extended,” said Prashant Solomon, managing director, Chintels Developer and spokesperson for CREDAI (Real Estate Developers’ Association of India) , Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/deadline-for-real-estate-projects-extended-by-six-months/story-wne9cWlN47xHvYfzbUKK4K.html
28-05-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram to reserve 1,000 hospital beds, offer paid quarantine facilities||The state health department along with the district administration is gearing up to tackle the Covid-19 cases in Gurugram, which is likely to witness a spike in the coming days owing to ease in inter-district and inter-state movements and expected lockdown relaxations after May 31. The administration is going to reserve 1,000 beds for Covid patients in different hospitals, while roping in 12 hotels as paid isolation facility for asymptomatic patients and preparing an epidemiological plan. Senior state health officials on Thursday held a meeting to review preparedness and take stock of the Covid-19 situation of the city, which has so far witnessed 405 cases with three deaths.Rajeeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health department, who held the meeting with the district administration on Thursday said, “Since the city is opening up gradually, a lot of people from different cities and those from Gurugram or Faridabad will start moving around freely. A spike in cases is expected. Therefore, we are focusing on paid isolation facilities and simultaneously increasing beds for critical care patients.”According to him, asymptomatic patients can be kept in hotels instead of them occupying beds at hospitals. “The purpose is to prevent the spread of coronavirus in densely populated areas. People who are asymptomatic during contact tracing can opt to stay at these hotels. Apart from this, there will be paid government facilities where people can stay.”Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, on Thursday issued an order for self-paid and government paid isolation facility. “People who do not have requisite space at home can opt for facilities such as hotels and guest houses,” reads the order. Those testing positive in a containment zone and wanting to be treated at home will have to give a written consent.According to Arora, the district administration has been adviced to divide the city into five to seven zones for easy management of cases. “Along with the health teams, district administration officials will be deployed in these areas to tackle the Covid-19 situation.”EPIDEMIOLOGICAL PLANIn a statement issued by the district administration, Rajesh Khullar, principal secretary to chief minister, directed district officials to prepare an epidemiological model to make future projections of Covid-19 cases based on the data collated so far. A senior official privy to the matter, who attended the video conference of officials, said, “District administration has been asked to take help from private consultancy groups. The report has to be submitted at the earliest.”INCREASING BED CAPACITYKeshani Anand Arora, Haryana chief secretary, has directed the administration to create enough beds for Covid-19 patients. Around 1000-beds have to be kept ready in Gurugram, out of which 500 should have oxygen equipment and 100 must have ventilators.Arora said there are eight to nine private hospitals in the city with more than 500-bed capacity. “If 50% of their beds are reserved for Covid-19 patients, it will be sufficient in case tehre is a spike in the number of cases,” reads the administration statement. The district administration on Monday issued an order making it mandatory for all private to treat Covid-19 cases. Currently patients are admitted to 100-bed ESIC Hospital, 30-bed Civil Hospital, 50-bed Medeor Hospital (whose capacity will be increased to 120) and a few other private hospitals only.USING TECHNOLOGY“Arogya Setu application will now be extensively used for effective contact tracing. The plan is ti streamline testing where people can be immediately tested after they come in contact with a Covid-19 patient,” said Arora. He said that a separate portal will be created where all Covid-19 information will be shared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-to-reserve-1-000-hospital-beds-offer-paid-quarantine-facilities/story-TLwgCZXFQWMeN3qKu5Q3tK.html
28-05-2020||Gurugram||Nurse attempts to kill herself||A 24-year-old nurse working at a private hospital in the city allegedly attempted to kill herself at her rented accommodation on Thursday. The police said she is being treated and the reason for her suicide attempt is still unclear. She also tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Thursday.A hospital source said the nurse tried to hang herself in a rented room in Jharsa where she lived with her friends, but her friends rushed her to the hospital.Aman Yadav, the assistant commissioner of police (Sadar), said that the incident was reported to the police from the control room around 3.30 pm on Thursday.“She was in her room at the time of the incident. Her friends witnessed her trying to hang herself within a few seconds. Currently, she is unfit to give a statement and is being treated at a private hospital. The circumstances around the incident are not known yet. A probe has revealed that she tested positive for Covid-19 following which she took the step,” ACP Yadav said. According to the police, the nurse, who belongs to Kerala, was deputed in the emergency ward of the hospital. On Wednesday, her samples were collected and the report was received on Thursday, which stated that she had tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/nurse-attempts-to-kill-herself/story-yKZMTBbdkppMR7tRmRQruL.html
28-05-2020||Gurugram||City bus service to resume early next month||The Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited (GMCBL) is likely to relaunch the city’s Gurugaman bus service in early June, once Lockdown 4.0 has ended. Officials said that a standard operating procedure(SOP) for staff and commuters is in the process of being drafted and that measures such as thermal scanning, foot-operated hand sanitisers, alternate seating arrangements and cashless ticketing will be the new norm in city buses in the coming months. Sonal Goel, CEO, GMCBL, on Thursday held a meeting at the city bus depot in Sector 10 to discuss these arrangements with the Gurugaman staff. While Goel did not respond to requests for comment, a spokesperson confirmed that the CEO has instructed officials to work on setting up smart card counters at select bus stops to promote cashless ticketing.“We cannot stop taking cash, but smart cards have a lower chance of contact so we are going to aggressively promote them,” said Vanita Akhaury, spokesperson, GMCBL. She also confirmed that a significant dip in ridership is expected. “People are not travelling. Moreover, we are ourselves going to limit the number of commuters per bus. No two consecutive seats can be occupied, and no standing passengers will be allowed,” she explained.In addition to these steps, the service will operate fewer buses at a lesser frequency, and also possibly with lesser (or revised) routes. The SOP document, expected to be finalised by the weekend, will contain the necessary details, said Akhaury. Since suspending operations on March 24, when Gurugram district went into lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19, Gurugaman buses have been deployed across the city as sample-collection labs for testing, as roving grocery markets catering to RWAs, in distributing food and ration to migrant workers, and also as a conveyance for health department officials working in the field. Foreign returnees travelling from Delhi airport to quarantine centres in Gurugram are also being ferried using a fleet of 15 city buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/city-bus-service-to-resume-early-next-month/story-yMAD9Toj5j5N0yAZTtARyN.html
28-05-2020||Gurugram||Containment zones increased to 63 as Covid-19 cases reach 405||With the number of Covid-19 cases increasing rapidly in Gurugram, the district administration on Thursday increased the number of containment zones from 45 to 63, even though a few areas were denotified. These areas included Dev Jewellery shop in Ashok Vihar, Chhotu Ram Chowk and Nandi Dham in the city. The total tally of Covid -19 cases in Gurugram stands at 405 with 68 positive cases being reported on Thursday. While 15 new containment zones have been notified in Gurugram block, two new zones have been notified in Pataudi and one in Sohna. As per the latest order issued by deputy commissioner Amit Khatri, on the recommendation of district disaster management and containment review committee, the number of such zones in Gurugram block is 60, along with two in Pataudi and one in Sohna.The areas adjoining the containment zones have been declared as buffer zones and it has been stated that the de-notification of areas would happen if the last positive case was reported 28 days earlier. The DC also appointed sub-divisional magistrates and duty magistrates for the supervision of the new containment zones.The new areas included in the containment zones are Government Middle School, Block C, Palam Vihar; street number 1, Panchwali Colony in Daultabad; the area around Nathuram market, DLF-4; Orchid Garden, La Lagune Apartment and Olive Tower in Sector 54; Aggarwal store, Yash Public School and RBS school in Palam Vihar extension; Tau Gopi wali Gali in Rajendra park; House no 685 to 789 and 915 to 919 in Chakkarpur; jhuggis(hutments) in Sector 53; the community centre in Gurgaon village; Sadhguru Enclave and streets no 4,5,6 in Noble Enclave; streets on Old Railway Road near Kalinath temple; Jwala Mill parking wall in Sector 22; streets in Prempuri in Sector 32; house no 219-223 in Indra Colony in Sector 52; Nilu ki Dhani in Shikohpur; Yadav Bhawan area in Rajiv Colony.The areas notified in Pataudi are Hari Mandir, Chotta Bhazar in Ward no 8 and some parts of village Dadawas. In Sohna, street number 6, N block, Naya Gaon and Mohan Nagar were notified as containment zones.As per the latest norms of the health department, the perimeter of the containment zones is now limited to 1km. It includes lanes or mohallas where Covid -19 positive cases are identified. All areas barring containment zones in the city are identified as orange zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/containment-zones-increased-to-63-as-covid-19-cases-reach-405/story-gT0782bXAynEpzRrkzgz1M.html
28-05-2020||City||NCRTC to expedite work on Delhi-Gurugram-Alwar rapid rail project||Gurugram: The National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC) said Thursday it has begun expediting pending work on the upcoming Delhi-Gurugram-Alwar regional rapid transport system (RRTS) corridor, which had been delayed due to the nationwide lockdown. According to the corporation, road widening between the IDLP Complex and the Atul Kataria Chowk in Gurugram, work for which had been held up due to absence of labour, will “commence shortly”, and that tenders for various components of the project are now being finalised. Officials said design work on the corridor is being done remotely, and has picked up pace in the past two months. “We are still in a detailed-design stage. Unlike the Delhi-Meerut RRTS corridor, where there has been some slight fall back in the construction schedule, the Delhi-Alwar corridor is not affected so severely. To the contrary, we have been solely focusing on planning and design aspects for now so that they can be implemented as soon as the Centre’s approval for construction is received,” said Sudhir Sharma, spokesperson, NCRTC. At present, this corridor has not yet received the Centre’s nod, seeing as the nodal ministry for the project. However, Sharma added that due to the absence of traffic in the past two months, officials were able to carry out other pre-construction works in Gurugram smoothly. “A water pipeline of the GMDA’s which was in the way of the alignment has been successfully shifted. We are now moving on to shifting of high-tension lines,” Sharma added.The NCRTC also undertook pre-construction tunnelling studies during the lockdown, he said. “The Delhi-Rajasthan route has several tunnels in the alignment, some as much as six-seven kilometres long. During the lockdown, we undertook pre-construction studies to ensure proper ventilation for workers inside these tunnels once construction work commences. These are design-related concerns which are being addressed currently,” Sharma added.Meanwhile, various tenders for design and construction, which were held up during the lockdown, are now in the final stage and are likely to be awarded in the coming weeks. These include tenders for detailed-design consultations (DDC), and civil constructions for viaducts, tunnels and RRTS stations between Sarai Kale Khan in Delhi and the Shahjahanpur-Neemrana-Behror Urban Complex in Rajasthan, as per an NCRTC press release on Thursday. The corridor will service parts of Delhi, Gurugram, Rewari and Alwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ncrtc-to-expedite-work-on-delhi-gurugram-alwar-rapid-rail-project/story-C8cV4VjGrXmNUElhJafkWN.html
28-05-2020||Mumbai||SoBo day temperature crosses 35°C-mark for 1st time in May; pre-monsoon showers expected from June first week||South Mumbai witnessed its hottest day of the month so far on Thursday while the weather bureau said the city can expect pre-monsoon showers in the first week of June.The Colaba weather observatory recorded a day temperature of 35.2 degrees Celsius (1.1 degree Celsius above normal) with the mercury crossing the 35 degree Celsius mark for the first time this month. The highest day temperature in south Mumbai had ranged between 34.8 and 35 degree Celsius on a few days. On the other hand, Santacruz which is representative of the suburbs recorded 34.5 degrees Celsius, 0.7 degree Celsius above normal.Last year the highest maximum temperature recorded in May was of 36 degrees Celsius on May 20. The highest monthly maximum over the past 10 years was on May 1 and May 10, 2010, and all-time high maximum May temperature was 41 degrees Celsius on May 12, 1979.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Thursday said in view of the development of a low-pressure area over southeast Arabian Sea between May 31 and June 4 conditions would be favourable for southwest monsoon over Kerala around June 1. “There are two weather systems in the Arabian Sea, one towards southwest Arabian Sea which is likely to develop into a cyclone and will move northwestwards towards Oman and Yemen not affecting the Indian coastline. A second system in southeast Arabian Sea, closer to the west coast, will allow monsoon progression and lead to pre-monsoon showers over most parts of the west coast during June first week,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director general, IMD.According to present weather models shared by IMD Mumbai officials, pre-monsoon showers are expected over parts of south Konkan around May 31 while north Konkan, including Mumbai, can receive rain from June 2 onwards. “Advisory has been issued to the fishing communities along the west coast to avoid fishing over west central Arabian Sea between May 29 and June 1, and southeast and east-central Arabian Sea between May 29 and June 4,” said Mohapatra.Private weather forecasting agency Skymet said pre-monsoon showers are expected over Mumbai between June 1 and 3. “Possibility of rain is there from May 31 as the low pressure over southeast Arabian Sea is likely to intensify into a weather depression. However, since its trajectory is moving closer to the coast it will start losing moisture. This will ensure the system does not develop into a tropical cyclone,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president (meteorology and climate change), Skymet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sobo-day-temperature-crosses-35-c-mark-for-1st-time-in-may-pre-monsoon-showers-expected-from-june-first-week/story-zjCBPpHJk40BfkopUQ4rpI.html
28-05-2020||Delhi||Highest spike of 1,024 Covid cases takes total to over 16K in Delhi; death toll climbs to 316||A record single-day spike of 1,024 cases took the Covid-19 tally in Delhi to over 16,000 on Thursday and the death toll due to the disease mounted to 316, authorities said.The previous highest single-day spike of 792 cases was recorded on Wednesday.This is the first time that over 1,000 Covid-19 cases have been reported in a day in the national capital.In a bulletin, the Delhi health department said the death toll from Covid-19 has risen to 316 in the city and the number of coronavirus cases has mounted to 16,281.It, however, added that the cumulative death figure refers to the fatalities where the primary cause of death was found to be Covid-19, according to a report of the Death Audit Committee on the basis of case-sheets received from various hospitals.On Wednesday, the total number of coronavirus cases stood at 15,257 in Delhi, including 303 deaths.  With the fresh 1,024 cases, the number has now climbed to 16,281.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/highest-spike-of-1-024-covid-cases-takes-total-to-over-16k-in-delhi-death-toll-climbs-to-316/story-xABZ3tSGOS5nZR0OJ7lzPI.html
28-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally nears 60,000-mark with 2,598 cases||Maharashtra on Thursday reported 2,598 new coronavirus patients, taking the tally of cases in the state to 59,546, said a health official.With 85 Covid-19 patients dying, 38 of them in Mumbai, the death toll due to the pandemic rose to 1,982.698 coronavirus patients were discharged during the day, taking the number of recovered persons in the state to 18,616, the official added. “Out of 85 deaths reported today, 37 deaths took place in the last two days while other 48 have taken place between May 15 to May 25,” he said. Maharashtra COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 59,546, new cases 2,598, deaths 1,982, discharged 18,616, active cases 38,939, people tested so far 4,19,417.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-s-covid-19-tally-nears-60-000-mark-with-2-598-cases/story-jNvbhkypoKZcZh7qjlYBZO.html
28-05-2020||Mumbai||Three including a Nigerian national arrested for duping businessman of ₹15.81 lakh||The Mumbai crime branch’s property cell arrested three accused including a Nigerian national on Thursday for allegedly duping a south Mumbai-based businessman to the tune of Rs15.81 lakh. The arrested accused have been identified as Santosh Jha, 35, a resident of Kandivli; Moses Tula, 45, a resident of Malad, and Kadiri Ali, 51, a Nigerian national who resides in Vasai.The victim, who is into pharmaceutical business and has his office at Dawa Bajar in south Mumbai, registered a case in LT Marg police station on May 12 stating that he had purchased medicine from another businessman on credit and had pending dues of Rs15.81 lakh. But due to the lockdown, he could not make the payment. He further stated that he received a mail asking him to clear the dues and the email id was similar to the one used by the other businessman, where the fraudsters had changed an alphabet which went unnoticed by him, asking him to transfer the pending dues into the bank account mentioned in the email, said police inspector Kedari Pawar of the property cell.“The victim did not verify and transferred all dues. The amount was transferred in the Jha’s bank account and as soon as the amount came in the bank Jha withdrew 11 lakh within an hour before the victim realised,” said Pawar. An hour later the victim called the businessman who used to supply him medicine, to verify whether he has received the money or not and learnt that he was duped by the accused. The victim immediately alerted the concerned bank and asked them to stop the transactions, added Pawar. The crime branch started conducting the parallel inquiry and arrested Ojha and later other suspects. They were produced in the court and remanded in the police custody till June 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/three-including-a-nigerian-national-arrested-for-duping-businessman-of-15-81-lakh/story-PwamfQdgDg3Rzsh4a1dsRK.html
28-05-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka state election commission postpones gram panchayat polls||The Karnataka state election commission has decided to temporarily postpone the elections scheduled for the gram panchayats in the state. This decision has been taken after adequate examination and consideration due to Covid-19 pandemic spread.The state election commission in a release said that due to the current ‘extraordinary circumstances’ prevalent because of the pandemic they have arrived at this decision under article 243 – K of the Constitution. A decision would be taken in the near future when elections can be held.There are 6025 gram panchayats in the state of which the term of 5800 of them expires in June. The state government had requested the election commission on March 30 itself to postpone the polls. However, both Congress and JDS had opposed BJP’s plea to postpone the polls claiming that the saffron party planned to seize control of gram panchayats by nominating its party workers as administrators with the help of deputy commissioners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-state-election-commission-postpones-gram-panchayat-polls/story-PXLU10zaoOzjbeviY1YBCL.html
28-05-2020||City||Delhi govt schools to distribute books among students till class 8||New Delhi: As transport facilities are being relaxed across Delhi, the Directorate of Education has asked government schools to prepare a schedule for distribution of books for students from classes 1 to 8. Under Right to Education Act, which mandates providing free elementary education to children up to class 8, students are entitled to receive books and reimbursement for uniform and stationery from schools.Following the closure of educational institutions in Delhi since March 16 to tackle the Covid-19 crisis, thousands of students were locked inside their homes without course textbooks even as the new academic session began in April. While the government used means such as WhatsApp and text messages to send daily learning activities to students, lack of textbooks at home slowed down the learning process.“A proper schedule for distribution of books is to be prepared at the school level so that books that have been received by the schools till now are distributed immediately and the remaining books may be distributed after they are received by the school,” the Directorate of Education wrote to the government schools on Tuesday.The education department recommended calling parents to the schools in separate time slots for different classes while maintaining social distancing measures and mandatory sanitation guidelines. Parents will be asked to sanitise their hands before entering the premises and a staff member with a sanitiser will be deputed at the gate for the same. Not more than 10 parents should be allowed to enter a classroom at any given point of time.“Along with books, sanitary napkins (available stock in the school) may be distributed to the eligible girl students,” the circular stated. Under the central government’s Kishori Shakti Yojna scheme, female government school students of classes 6 to 12 are given sanitary napkin packets every month. More than 8 lakh girls benefit from the scheme in Delhi government schools every month.With schools functioning as food distribution, dry ration, and migrant screening centres, overcrowding becomes a major challenge. Shaheed Hemu Kalani Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya in Lajpat Nagar, which serves as all three centres, is set to begin the book distribution on Friday. Principal Bijesh Kumar Sharma said parents had been informed of the timings through text messages and WhatsApp.“While we have kept separate wings of school for screening and hunger relief centres, managing the crowds remains an issue. Inside the school we have volunteers and teachers to ensure social distancing, but outside the gates it becomes an issue,” he said, adding schools with smaller spaces may have to take extra caution in this regard. “Besides, many of our teachers are concerned over the positive Covid-19 cases among frontline workers. While we are taking all precautions and sanitation measures, the concern is still there,” he said.A senior education department official said the reimbursement for books class 9 and 11 students will be processed soon. “Due to the delay in results for classes 9-12, the process was kept on hold. Since we have declared the results for class 9 and 11, the reimbursement will be transferred to their bank accounts soon.”“We are keeping a tab on who are collecting the books. A parent, who is currently in Bihar, called me today. So we made some provisions for a relative to collect it. We want to ensure students have that assurance that they have their books with them to study. This is in addition to the NCERT e-books they have on their phones,” said Rakesh Semalty, principal of Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya in Nand Nagri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-schools-to-distribute-books-among-students-till-class-8/story-A5pwWV7NGC4ZsMeN9TIy5H.html
28-05-2020||Pune||Antiseptics, cleansing products in short supply at city chemists||Pune city is facing a shortage of anti-septic and cleansing products, with brands like Dettol (liquid) and Savlon being cited as the in-demand examples.According to the Chemists association of Pune, the city requires one lakh, 100-ml bottles of anti-septics as of date, while the demand in the December quarter, before the Covid-19 crisis, was 10,000 bottles.Anil Belkar, president, Pune Chemists Association, said, “The entire stock of these products has been sent to government hospitals and Covid treatment centres and is being utilised there. There is a huge shortage with very little stock available in the market. Currently, the demand from is high. The shortage is likely to continue,” he said.“Both, east and western Pune are facing the crunch with only a few areas getting supply, and that too, on a limited scale,” Belkar said.Kamal Kumar, owner of Shree Chemist located on Salunke Vihar road, says, “We are facing a shortage of these cleansing products, and have not been able to meet the rising demand.”Sameer Chaudhary of Fit Medicine in Wanowrie says, “We request the government to intervene and ensure that adequate supply is given to all areas. The citizens trust these brand names.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/antiseptics-cleansing-products-in-short-supply-at-city-chemists/story-TbGdriqKyDjXw7qGWFf0DN.html
28-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi-NCR likely to receive light rain today: IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Thursday predicted that Delhi-NCR region is likely to witness very light rain, thunderstorm or dust storm today till 8:30 pm.“Very light rain/thunderstorm/dust storm accompanied with gusty winds forecast for Delhi NCR till 8.30 pm,” said the IMD.“The Southwest Monsoon has further advanced into some parts of Maldives-Comorin area, some more parts of south Bay of Bengal, remaining parts of the Andaman Sea and Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Conditions are becoming favourable for further advance of Southwest Monsoon into some more parts of Maldives-Comorin area during next 48 hours,” the IMD said in its All India Weather Forecast Bulletin.In addition to this, IMD said Tripura and Mizoram are also very likely to witness heavy to very heavy rainfall during the next 24 hours.“Heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places over Tripura and Mizoram during next 24hours and Heavy rainfall over Assam & Meghalaya. Heavy rainfall at isolated places over parts of south peninsular India during 28th-31th May 2020 with isolated Heavy to Very Heavy Rainfall over Kerala and Lakshadweep during 30th-31st May 2020,” the forecast bulletin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-ncr-likely-to-receive-light-rain-today-imd/story-rJT7TCcMmkxFpwLNknCBdI.html
28-05-2020||Mumbai||Former Congress corporator booked for misbehaving with sub-inspector in Mumbai||A former corporator from the Congress was booked on Thursday by Vakola police for allegedly misbehaving with an on-duty police sub-inspector, obstructing her from discharging her duties and threatening to harm her.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) (operations) and spokesperson of Mumbai Police Pranaya Ashok confirmed the development.According to Vakola police, the incident took place on Wednesday around 10.30pm when the 28-year-old sub- inspector was working as a night duty officer at the station house. The 45-year-old corporator, Brian Miranda, visited the police station along with his wife after a fight broke out between two groups of residents of a society at Pandurang Vakil Wadi in Kalina. Miranda and his wife were supporting one group. The former corporator allegedly started arguing with the officer and called her biased. He also allegedly passed remarks insulting her modesty.Miranda however, has refuted the allegations.“I went to the police station along with my wife as it was night. The sub-inspector was speaking to my wife rudely and was not willing to listen to her. My wife was defending four women in our society who visited the police station to lodge a complaint against another society member who had abused them. I did not misbehave with the officer as I did not even speak to her,” said Miranda.Based on the officer’s complaint, Vakola police lodged a first information report (FIR) under sections 186 (obstructing public servant while discharging public functions), 189 (threat of injury to public servant) and 509 (words, act or gesture intended to insult woman’s modesty) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), as well as the section 110 (behaving indecently in public) of the Maharashtra Police Act, 1951.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/former-congress-corporator-booked-for-misbehaving-with-sub-inspector-in-mumbai/story-yQCxM7o63qA2P6VJdeSbjO.html
28-05-2020||Kolkata||Cyclone Amphan: Visva Bharati teachers donate Rs 1 lakh to CM s relief fund||The Visva Bharati Faculty Association has donated Rs 1 lakh to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund for the people affected by Cyclone Amphan, a senior member of the association said on Thursday.The amount was handed over to the Block Development Officer of Bolpur on Wednesday. “The association raised Rs 1 lakh. More financial contributions will be made to the relief fund by teachers in the coming days,” Visva Bharati faculty member Sudipta Bhattacharya said.The Visva Bharati university authorities had in a notification on May 24 said that one day’s salary would be deducted from all permanent staff members for contribution to the CM’s relief fund to “stand by those who are in dire need of food and shelter”.The notification, issued by the officiating registrar, said the amount will be deposited by the central university on June 3.The faculty association, however, expressed reservations about the notice saying that employees should be given the opportunity to donate voluntarily through whatever means they find suitable.“We strongly demand that the notice should be revised with a clear option given to the employees to express their choices with a deadline as it happened in the past.” “As responsible citizens, it is our duty to stand by people during a crisis. During the current Covid-19 crisis, the faculty members have not only donated one day’s salary to the Prime Minister’s Relief Fund through Visva-Bharati, but are also organizing relief work in nearby localities for last two months.“But the authorities cannot deduct a portion of the salary without an employees consent even for donation. It is demeaning for the faculty members and unbecoming of the institute,” Bhattacharya said.The reaction of the Visva Bharati authorities in this regard was not available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/cyclone-amphan-visva-bharati-teachers-donate-rs-1-lakh-to-cm-s-relief-fund/story-VC3q4t1dL0MEC8rTuEDzjP.html
28-05-2020||Kolkata||In fresh trouble for Bengal’s cyclone hit areas, squall kills two||A week after cyclone Amphan ravaged south Bengal, a squall raged through some of the same districts including Kolkata with a speed of nearly 100 km per hour on Wednesday evening, killing at least two persons and hampering cyclone relief work.One person was killed and two others injured when a tree fell on them in Howrah. In another incident one person was killed and five others were injured when a wall collapsed during the squall that lasted about half an hour. Some new pockets in parts of South 24 Parganas and North Parganas – the two worst cyclone-hit districts – have been inundated after the squall and heavy rains. In some villages which were already inundated since May 20, the water level increased following the squall which hampered relief work.“Thousands of villagers who were living under polythene sheets and tarpaulins have once again been affected as the storm has blown away all the tarpaulin and polythene sheets. We need to distribute these items once again. Besides this the water level has risen which has worsened the condition,” said Sukumar Mahata, MLA of Sandeshkhali in North 24 Parganas.Cyclone Amphan which had affected around eight districts had left more than one million homeless. Around 100 million have been affected. The state government has already distributed more than a million tarpaulin sheets to those whose houses have been damaged.At Bagda in North 24 Parganas, dozens of irate villagers barged into the panchayat office and looted around 500 tarpaulin sheets. It has been estimated that around 16 km of river embankments and around 4 km of sea dykes have been damaged by cyclone Amphan. Saline water had gushed into the villages during the cyclone and the storm surge it had triggered. More than 10 lakh hectares of croplands have been destroyed and large areas are still submerged.“In four villages, every time the high tide comes, we have to plug the breaches in the river’s embankments with nearly 400 sandbags. When the water level falls during low tide, the sandbags are removed so that the water which had gushed into the villages during the storm and has got stranded, can be drained out. At least 80 people have been deployed in each of these four villages to do the job four times a day,” said S Mitra, the block development officer of Gosaba, one of the worst hit blocks in South 24 Parganas.But soon after the squall and rain several pockets in the Sunderban and coastal districts got inundated again.Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has asked the district administration to repair the embankments and dykes on a war-footing effort as the spring tide during the full moon on June 6 could further aggravate matters as was seen a month after cyclone Aila in 2009.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-fresh-trouble-for-bengal-s-cyclone-hit-areas-squall-kills-two/story-d4YaAken2V1Dl6Di5R84PM.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||2 Covid-19 fatalities in Ludhiana, Amritsar||A 49-year-old railway protection force (RPF) jawan and a 60-year-old woman succumbed to Covid-19 in Ludhiana and Amritsar, respectively, on Thursday.The RPF jawan, Pawan Kumar, a resident Karol Bagh in Jalandhar, died around noon after he suffered a sudden cardiac arrest at Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMC&H) in Ludhiana.RPF JAWAN DEVELOPED ACUTE PNEUMONIAConfirming his death civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the patient had been admitted to the mother-child hospital on Chandigarh Road on May 20. However, he was rushed to CMC&H on May 22 after his condition deteriorated and he developed acute pneumonia.“The patient had comorbidities. He was a diabetic. He had been on oxygen support for four days,” Bagga said. Of the 57 infected personnel in the district, 45 have recovered. There are 33 active Covid-19 cases in the district .Deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Agrawal said 6,290 samples had been collected till May 27, of which the reports of 6,079 had been received. As many as 5,811 samples were found negative, while the reports of 211 samples are pending.“Around 181 Covid-19 patients are locals while 87 are from other districts and states,” he said, adding that seven people from Ludhiana had succumbed to the virus.60-YEAR-OLD WAS HYPERTENSIVE The 60-year-old victim, a resident of village Bulara Bhattike of Baba Bakala tehsil of Amritsar had tested positive for the deadly virus at an authorised private lab on May 27, health officials said.“The victim, Jaspal Kaur, 60, had been admitted to the isolation ward of government medical college and hospital (GMCH) Amritsar after her diagnosis. She was also a patient of hypertension and was suffering from coronary artery disease.“When Kaur was admitted to GMCH, she was unconscious and in a critical condition. She was put on oxygen and treatment was initiated,” said civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore.Kishore said, “Her condition deteriorated on Thursday and she was immediately intubated and given ventilator support. However, she passed away at 1.40pm on Thursday.”Amritsar has so far reported 353 Covid-19 cases and seven fatalities.4 TEST POSITIVE IN HOSHIARPURFour contacts of a 37-year-old man of Nangli Jalalpur village who succumbed to Covid-19 on May 17 have tested positive for the disease.So far, 17 contacts of the man have tested positive for Covid-19. The reports of several others are still awaited.The number of positive cases in the district has increased to 115.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-covid-19-fatalities-in-ludhiana-amritsar/story-mwVHZkS5AmpBb2yVuaOEeJ.html
28-05-2020||Lucknow||7 more die of Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh, total cases rise to 7,071||Seven more people died of coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday, while 80 fresh cases pushed the total number of COVID-19 cases in the state to 7,071, officials said. With seven more fatalities, the total number of deaths due to COVID-19 in the state has reached 189.  “The total number of cases reported so far are 7,071, including 4,062 who have been treated and discharged and there are 2,820 active cases. The death toll in the state has reached 189,” Principal Secretary, Medical and Health, Amit Mohan Prasad told reporters here. According to health department, among the seven fresh deaths, five were from Agra and one each from Jalaun and Kushinagar.Till Wednesday, of the 182 deaths reported, the maximum 33 were from Agra, 23 from Meerut, 15 from Aligarh, 11 each from Kanpur and Moradabad, nine from Firozabad, six from Sant Kabir Nagar, five each in Gautam Buddh Nagar and Gorakhpur and four each from Jhansi, Mathura and Varanasi. Apart from that, three deaths each were from Ghaziabad, Basti, Prayagraj, Pratapgarh, Etah and Ayodhya and two each from Jaunpur, Lucknow, Bulandshahr, Bijnor, Azamgarh, Bareilly, Ambedkar Nagar, Chitrakoot, Mainpuri and Jalaun. Besides these, one death each has been reported from Barabanki, Hapur, Siddharth Nagar, Raebareli, Amroha, Muzaffarnagar, Etawah, Mahrajganj, Shravasti, Unnao, Kanpur Dehat, Kushinagar, Mahoba and Lalitpur.Prasad said samples of 7,923 samples have been sent for testing on Wednesday.“Health workers have surveyed over 10 lakh migrant labourers and 959 have shown symptoms of coronavirus,” he said. “We are emphasising on surveillance and over 3.74 crore people have been surveyed by 94,856 teams in Uttar Pradesh,” he said. Prasad said the Centre’s Aarogya Setu mobile application is being used and alerts are being sent to people. “We have made 28,054 calls on the basis of the alerts generated by the mobile app. Of them, 104 are positive and are undergoing treatment at various hospitals while 49 were treated and discharged. Among those called, 1,248 are in quarantine,” he said. He said pulse oximeter machines have arrived in the state and will be given at every quarantine centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/7-more-die-of-covid-19-in-uttar-pradesh-total-cases-rise-to-7-071/story-Lt3cXhI9eqh9wFN8QNAj2L.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt’s move to stop free power to farmers ‘midsummer madness’: Sukhbir||Chandigarh: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday slammed the Punjab government for its move to abolish free power on the pretext of replacing it with direct benefit transfer (DBT) of subsidy.In a statement, Sukhbir said the move is a curtain-raiser for the total abolition of the free power facility for farmers introduced by the Parkash Singh Badal-led SAD-BJP government in 1997. “This is midsummer madness by the Congress government in the state and a shocking assault on the already beleaguered peasantry,” he said, convening an emergency meeting of the SAD core committee in Chandigarh on May 30 to discuss the party’s strategy on the issue.The Punjab cabinet had on Wednesday agreed in-principle to switch from free electricity to cash transfer of subsidy to farmers’ bank accounts from the next fiscal to become eligible for additional borrowing under reforms-linked enhancement announced by the central government. The SAD chief said the direct benefit transfer policy means that meters will now be installed on farmers’ tubewells and they will be forced to pay the bills. “As for the promised refund later, we all know the record of this government which has failed to pay even medical and TA bills and often faulted on even the salaries of its employees. Who can trust this government’s word on reimbursement to farmers?” he said.He said the Congress had, in its earlier tenure from 2002-07 also, abolished free power and the SAD along with farmers had launched an agitation to force the government to resume it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-govt-s-move-to-stop-free-power-to-farmers-midsummer-madness-sukhbir/story-Tvsj57wNxsH1vBKRlXQXfP.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Driving test to start from June 1 in Punjab||Chandigarh: The Punjab Government has launched an online system for the facilitation of citizens to pre-book time and date for giving the driving test to obtain a regular licence.Announcing this, state transport commissioner Dr Amarpal Singh said online booking will be mandatory for a driving test now and the powers of officials to take a test as per their discretion has been withdrawn. Any applicant missing the appointment will have to apply for a fresh slot and jumping the queue or adjusting a person without booking will not be possible, he said in a press note here on Thursday.The STC said another feature which has been enabled is that the result of the test and processing of the licence will have to be initiated the same day. “The slots which will be available at each track have been limited to 40 to ensure social distancing in light of coronavirus,” he said, adding that the earlier procedure will continue for learner licence.He said no late fee will be charged for renewal of all documents issued under the Motor Vehicle Act, including driving licences that expired from February 2020 onwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/driving-test-to-start-from-june-1-in-punjab/story-rnUiiCs2M3QnYZ6hQ9d54O.html
28-05-2020||Jaipur||About 90,000 hectares hit by locust in 20 Rajasthan districts||About 90,000 hectares in 20 districts of Rajasthan have been affected due to the locust attack, an official said Thursday. Swarms of locust have moved from Sri Ganganagar, Nagaur, Jaipur, Dausa, Karauli and Swai Madhopur towards other areas in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh after the authorities conducted operations to tackle them. Crop over 4,000 hectares in Sri Ganganagar and 100 hectares in Nagaur have been destroyed. Around 90,000 hectares in 20 districts have been affected in the state due to the locust attack, said Om Prakash, Commissioner of the Agriculture Department. He said the department carried out locust control operations on 67,000 hectares. Swarms of locust can travel up to 150 km a day with a speed of 15-20 km per hour and since there is no standing crop in the fields, they are targeting trees and other available vegetation, the official said. He said the non-availability of standing crops is the reason behind their movement from Pakistan to India. Talking about the locust control operations, he said 800 tractors with mounted sprayers are being used to neutralise locusts. About 200 teams are involved in daily survey and farmers are being given free pesticides, he said. Swarms of locust had recently entered some residential areas of Jaipur and settled on trees and walls. After a few hours, the insects moved towards Dausa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/about-90-000-hectares-hit-by-locust-in-20-rajasthan-districts/story-Vw0lgrFPOyikonNo4VSdiO.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Bindal’s resignation bid to divert attention from scam in Himachal health dept: Virbhadra||Shimla: Senior Congress leader and former chief minister Virbhadra Singh on Thursday condemned the corruption in the state health department, saying Rajeev Bindal’s resignation as state BJP president is a bid to divert public attention from the scam and infighting in his party.In a statement, he said that the medical equipment scam during Covid-19 times had exposed the BJP’s “so-called honesty”. The arrest of then health director Dr AK Gupta shows BJP leaders are linked to the scam.He said in his 60-year political career he had never seen a party involved in corruption during a calamity.He sought a probe by a sitting high court judge since the department is under chief minister Jai Ram Thakur.“The state government is not paying attention to problems of farmers, orchardists and the common man. It did not implement suggestions given by the Congress. The state BJP president refused to conduct a special Vidhan Sabha session sought by Congress and BJP MLAs. Infighting is going on and that is their internal matter, but people should not suffer,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bindal-s-resignation-bid-to-divert-attention-from-scam-in-himachal-health-dept-virbhadra/story-bjuol9CHfHPF7wE9o2qB6N.html
28-05-2020||Patna||Hurrying back home to skip Covid fury, migrant workers in Bihar stare at uncertain future||He paid through the nose to return to his native village in Bihar from Mumbai, among the cities worst-hit by Covid-19, but back home the future looks bleak for 20-year-old Vishal Kumar, who happens to be the sole breadwinner of his family. Out of job and with little savings left, Kumar said he might have to go back to the western metropolis if he is unable to find a job in Arwal, his home district.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage After failed attempts to find a berth in a ‘Shramik Special’ train, Kumar had bought a plane ticket with almost all the money he had saved to reach Bihar, but the government, shortly after, shelved its plan to resume flight operations in mid-May. Left with no choice, he coughed up Rs 8,500 to book a seat in a private bus, which was ferrying migrants to Daltonganj in Jharkhand. “I used to get a monthly salary of Rs 16,000 working for an eyewear wholesaler in Mumbai. I barely managed to save money after meeting all expenses. Now, I have little money left, and my future hangs in a balance with no job opportunity in sight amid the lockdown,” Kumar said. After an exasperating bus journey for five days, he reached Daltonganj on May 20, and returned to his native place at Chulhan Bigha in Arwal district with help from his relatives. He is currently undergoing 14-day quarantine at an isolation centre near his place. Along with him, over 50 other fellow migrants, many of them Surat returnees, are lodged at a quarantine centre in Pirawa panchayat area of the district. Vijay Kumar, a middle-aged daily wager who lost his job at a private concern in Surat, told PTI over phone, “I had no money left to pay rent. I thought it was best to return home.” Vijay, who earned Rs 500 per day, said he was lucky to have got a berth in a Shramik Special train. “The factory owner gave around 500 of us eight kilogramme of foodgrains and vegetables, before shutting down the unit on May 22,” he said. “Big cities extend hospitality only till you work there. Once out of work, it is difficult to arrange two meals a day. Cashless and hungry, hundreds of us returned to our native places in Bihar,” Vijay added. Narrating his travel woes, Vishal Kumar said 35 of them travelled in a bus, which made stops at dhabas where they had ‘dal-roti’ in a hurry. For nature calls, too, they had to patiently wait for the bus to stop at remote locations, he said. The two, however, were all praise for the arrangements made by the state government for housing migrants at the quarantine centres. “We got ‘Balti kit’ (bucket, towel, soap among other things) and comfortable beds set up in the classrooms of a middle school, which has been converted into a quarantine centre,” Vishal said. He, was, however, sceptical about his job prospects in this eastern state. “As soon as I step out of the quarantine centre, I will start looking for a job. My ‘malik’ (employer) said I could return to work once the situation improves... But amid the Covid-19 crisis, I don’t want to return anytime soon. If I don’t find anything here, I may have to catch a train to Mumbai,” he noted. Lakhs of migrants who have hurried back home in Bihar, walking, peddling bicycles and hitchhiking their way to their native places, are no longer sure if they would be able to live by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s mantra of “Jaan Bhi Jahaan Bhi” (life as well as livelihood). The Bihar government has promised to make livelihood arrangements for the returnees after mapping their skills, but with so many having returned to the state from metropolises, it remains to be seen if they would stay put to dig earth or lay bricks under the MGNREGA scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/hurrying-back-home-to-skip-covid-fury-migrant-workers-in-bihar-stare-at-uncertain-future/story-LuYFRLAe4NvFyyHIfR4yeM.html
28-05-2020||Mumbai||22 police personnel in Maharashtra died of Covid-19 so far||Novel coronavirus has claimed the lives of at least 22 police personnel in Maharashtra so far, an official said on Thursday.With more than 130 police personnel testing coronavirus positive in the last 24 hours, their tally has now reached 2,095, the official said.“Of the total number of infected police personnel 236 are officers, while 1,859 others are constabulary-rank staff.All of them are undergoing treatment at various hospitals,” he said.Seventy-five officers and 822 constabulary-rank personnel have recovered from the infection so far, he said.According to the official, there were 254 incidents of assault on the police staff during the lockdown, and so far 833 people have been arrested in connection with these cases.“More than 40 health professionals were also attacked by the anti-social elements during the lockdown,” he said.The Maharashtra Police has registered at least 1,16,670 offences under IPC section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) for violation of the lockdown order, in which 23,314 people have been arrested, he said.Police have traced at least 705 people, who violated the home quarantine norms. This statistics excludes Mumbai, the official said.The police control rooms across the state handled around 96,700 calls in connection with the queries related to the coronavirus outbreak, he said.Police have registered 1,323 offences of illegal transport and seized 75,813 vehicles during the lockdown period, the official said, adding that fine of Rs 5.75 crore has been collected by the police for various offences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/22-police-personnel-in-maharashtra-died-of-covid-19-so-far/story-HluHaL8AxlqUL1LyNKACmJ.html
28-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi issues advisory for spraying pesticides to control probable locust attack||To deal with the attack of locusts in the national capital, the Delhi government has issued an advisory for spraying pesticides, Cabinet Minister Gopal Rai said on Thursday.Rai said in view of the increasing threat of locusts in north India, the Agriculture Department of the Delhi government will run awareness programmes to make the people and farmers of Delhi aware of this new threat.“Also, the Delhi Government has issued advisory on spraying pesticides and its quantity,” Rai tweeted.The circular was issued in order to prevent a probable attack in Delhi by a swarm of locusts, which are reportedly present in the states of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan.“All concerned authorities are hereby advised to take preventive measures to control and eradicate the locusts to avoid devastating effect on standing agricultural and horticultural crops, vegetation, plants, gardens, orchard etc. in Delhi,” the circular said.It directed that awareness programmes be organised for the public and farmers to prevent and control any such invasion by locusts in Delhi.“As the swarm usually fly in day time, and rest during night time therefore the locusts should not be allowed to rest especially during night,” it said.The circular added that the authorities may carry out spraying of insecticides or pesticides during the night.The chemicals suggested for spraying were Malathion 50% EC; Malathion 25% WP; Chlorpyrifos 20 % EC; and Chlorpyrifos 50 % EC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-issues-advisory-for-spraying-pesticides-to-control-probable-locust-attack/story-bR9KKaiiKPbaEnpyEJKAjL.html
28-05-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka reports 75 new Covid-19 cases, state tally nears 2,500-mark||Seventy-five new cases of Covid-19 have been confirmed in Karnataka, taking the total number of infections in the state to 2,493, the health department said on Thursday.With 47 deaths and 809 discharges, there are 1,635 active corona cases in the state, the department said in its mid-day bulletin.Twenty-eight patients have been discharged so far on Thursday.A total of 46 out of 75 cases are returnees from neighbouring Maharashtra, six from Tamil Nadu, two from Telangana, one each from Kerala, Delhi. One person is with international travel history from UAE.Remaining cases include, seven- who are contacts of patients already tested positive, one with the history of SARI while 10 patients’ contact history is still under tracing.Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Udupi accounting for 27, followed by Hassan 13, seven each from Bengaluru urban and Yadgir, six each from Chitradurga and Dakahina Kannada, three each from Kalaburagi and Chikkamagaluru, Vijayapura 2, and one from Raichur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-reports-75-new-covid-19-cases-state-tally-nears-2-500-mark/story-bGEDBOPbExxLuwh2Tv0H7N.html
28-05-2020||Pune||Pune airport handles 27 flights on day three of resumption||Over 660 passengers arrived at the Pune international airport in 14 flights on Wednesday, the third day of the resumption of air services, an official said.As many as 1,364 passengers departed in 13 flights from the airport, the official said.“Total 27 flights were operated by the Airports Authority in Pune. While 14 of them arrived at the airport, 13 others took off. The number of passengers who arrived at the airport on Wednesday was 663, while 1,364 others departed,” he said.Domestic flight operations, which had been suspended for two months due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, resumed on Monday.On Monday, 672 passengers landed at the Pune airport in nine flights and 985 others took off in eight flights, while on Tuesday, 23 flights were operated.Total 558 passengers had arrived in 12 flights and 1,200 passengers took off in 11 flights, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-airport-handles-27-flights-on-day-three-of-resumption/story-l9nARYCahzTGIPJfXPLvKO.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Randhir Sharma tipped to be working president of Himachal BJP after Rajeev Bindal’s exit||SHIMLA: A day after Rajeev Bindal stepped down as the Himachal Pradesh BJP chief, party sources said that the high command is likely to appoint former Naina Devi legislator Randhir Sharma as working president till a new leader is elected.The sources said the working president could be appointed in a day or two. Sharma belongs to Bilaspur, the home district of BJP national president JP Nadda, and was in the race for the post in January also but the party favoured Bindal, who went on to serve as state unit chief for four months.The sources said that eventually the state party chief’s post may go to Kangra district and bigger changes were likely in the Himachal unit.However, in this entire episode, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has strengthened his position.Bindal, 56, had in a video message posted on social media, cited moral grounds for quitting the post on Wednesday after his name was indirectly dragged into a corruption case involving the state health department.Incidentally, it was his second video message, the first was sent just an hour ago propagating Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s plan to organise a virtual rally on May 30 to highlight the achievements on the completion of one year of the National Democratic Alliance government’s second term.Nadda accepted Bindal’s resignation within hours.But this was the epilogue.THE PROLOGUEThe events that unfolded when the BJP came to power in December 2017 provided a prologue to the episode. Bindal, a five-time legislator, was expecting an important berth in the government.However, the power struggle that ensued due to the defeat of veteran leader Prem Kumar Dhumal in the assembly elections, resulted in Jai Ram Thakur becoming the chief minister and Bindal was made speaker of the Vidhan Sabha. All were happy except Bindal.In 2020, amid several names doing the rounds for the new party chief, Bindal emerged as the final choice. Bindal said he was happier to serve in the organisation.However, his elevation did not go down will with certain party leaders and they were waiting for an opportunity.COUP-DE-GRÂCEHowever, even his detractors hadn’t expected the moment to arrive so soon. What better time than during the Covid-19 pandemic. The day the medical equipment purchase scam in the state health department surfaced, hushed voices discussed its political connection.Health department director Dr AK Gupta was suspended and arrested for the scam days before he was to retire. He was said to be close to several ruling party leaders and some of them had even proposed his name to the chief minister for an extension.Initially, there were references and later fingers were directly pointed at Bindal. His detractors added fuel to the fire.Tremors were also felt in the power corridors in Delhi. Unhappy with the whole episode, the high command discussed the issue with chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, while the Prime Minister’s Office appointed a nodal officer to oversee the probe.Jai Ram Thakur is learnt to have told the high command that the scam had brought a bad name to the party and the state government, particularly after the name of a leader had cropped up.The plot was enough to throw the captain out of the ship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/randhir-sharma-tipped-to-be-working-president-of-himachal-bjp-after-rajeev-bindal-s-exit/story-JSgz9JfESs6nKXlObf4JlL.html
28-05-2020||Jaipur||RLP demands CBI probe in suicide of police inspector||The Rashtriya Loktantrik Party Wednesday demanded a CBI probe in the suicide case of a police inspector, and handed over representations, addressed to Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, to administration officials in all districts.Vishnu Dutt Vishnoi, who was posted as the SHO of Rajgarh police station in Churu, committed suicide by hanging himself in his quarter on Saturday.RLP convener and Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal said that the party workers handed over the representations in all the districts to press for the demand of a CBI inquiry.“The SHO was under political pressure and the state government should refer the case to CBI for investigation,” he said.Beniwal said that the party ran a digital campaign Tuesday on Twitter with the demand of a CBI inquiry so that a fair probe could be conducted and justice done.The SHO was found hanging in his quarter on Saturday morning. In a suicide note addressed to the Churu SP, he said he was not able to bear pressure created around him.The screenshot of a WhatsApp chat between the SHO and his activist-friend went viral in which the SHO was telling the activist that he was being allegedly trapped in “dirty politics”.BJP leaders including the deputy leader of opposition Rajendra Rathore have blamed local Congress MLA Krishna Poonia for creating pressure on him, a charge which she has denied.The suicide case is being probed by CB-CID of the state police and a case against unknown person has been registered for abetting him to suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rlp-demands-cbi-probe-in-suicide-of-police-inspector/story-lrmaux0s5B4VuLrL9kqoMM.html
28-05-2020||Jaipur||131 new coronavirus cases in Rajasthan; tally reaches to 7,947||Six more Covid-19 deaths were reported in Rajasthan on Thursday, taking their number to 179 as 131 new coronavirus cases pushed the tally in the state to 7,947, the Health Department said here.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageOne death each was reported from Ajmer, Banswara, Dausa, Karauli and Nagaur. The location of one more fatality is yet to be ascertained, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said.Of the new cases, 69 were reported in Jhalawar, 13 in Pali, 12 in Bharatpur, eight in Kota, seven each in Jaipur and Jhunjhunu, five each in Nagaur and Churu, four in Dausa and one in Ajmer district, officials said.There are 3,292 active cases of the pathogen in the state and 3,913 people have been discharged, they said.Jaipur has recorded the maximum of 84 deaths and 1,909 cases in the state, followed by 17 deaths and 1,311 cases in Jodhpur.Of the total cases, 2,149 are migrants who had returned to Rajasthan from other states, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/131-new-coronavirus-cases-in-rajasthan-tally-reaches-to-7-947/story-PKtJfKgd09hqzPRiVVvVfL.html
28-05-2020||Mumbai||26/11 hero who had identified Ajmal Kasab and braved bullets dies||Harishchandra Shrivardhankar, a key witness in the 26/11 case, died at his house in Kalyan in Maharashtra’s Thane district on Tuesday.“His helping nature and concern for others is what we miss when he is no more with us. He had recovered from all his illness and was home with us for around 12 days before he died of cardiac arrest,” said Shrivardhankar’s elder son.Shrivardhankar had identified terrorist Ajmal Kasab during the 26/11 terror attacks trial. As per his family, he died at his residence in Kalyan’s Yogidham area.Shrivardhankar was hit by two bullets on the night of November 26, 2008, when 10 Pakistani terrorists had attacked Mumbai, near Cama Hospital in south Mumbai. According to a report in Hindustan Times in 2010, Shrivardhankar was one of the main witnesses who deposed before a special court.HT had reported on May 5 how Shrivardhankar, who was found lying helpless on the footpath near a shop at Saat Rasta, Chinchpokli, Mumbai on April 29, and was reunited with his family by the store owner Dean D’Souza and his friends on May 1. “Our local doctor who checked him said it was a cardiac arrest. We had just bought him home from hospital on May 15 as doctors said he had recovered. He was also talking properly. We had maintained a proper diet for him,” said Mangesh Shrivardhankar, 42, his elder son.His son confirmed Shrivardhankar was 68.“Even after the attack he resumed his work with food and civil supplies department and continued for one year till retirement. He used to talk about the incident to his colleagues a lot. He recollected the incident all the time and that somewhere affected him mentally,” said Mangesh.When Harishchandra Shrivardhankar was reunited from his family on May 1, his health condition had deteriorated, he had a leg injury and harldy spoke. As per his family, he suffered memory loss and had left home earlier in March. The family had lodged a missing complaint at the Khadakpada police station in Kalyan (West).“Like every day he went down to roam in our locality. He used to often meet his friends after retirement. That day he didn’t return and we kept searching. He was a social person who loved helping others, meeting people and also reach out for those in help,” said Mangesh, who works in a private firm.Shrivandhankar is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter all of whom are married.The family has got help from local corporator Daya Gaikwad who managed to get Rs 10 lakh help from Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had visited him at the private hospital in Kalyan and announced the monetary help from the party.“We have received a cheque from the party which is yet to clear and is still in process. We are thankful to all those who came forward to help us in our difficult times,” said Mangesh.“It gives us immense relief that we could look after him for some days before he left us. During his missing period he suffered leg injury which was also treated at the hospital,” he added.Daya Gaikwad who attended his final rites said, “The monetary help which was announced by the party will be given. They come from a middle class family and the money will definitely help them. We are glad that atleast we could take care of the braveheart for few days.”Former mayor of Kalyan, Rajendra Deolekar, who also attended the rituals said, “His nature of helping the others, the nation and his bravery will also remain in our heart. He has set an example for others. Being a common man he took all the risks and fought for the country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/26-11-hero-who-had-identified-kasab-and-braved-bullets-dies/story-lYUDP9J23SidElgB0RhGlI.html
28-05-2020||Pune||Covid-19 cases in Pune district climb to 6,643; death toll 298||With the addition of 163 Covid-19 cases, the tally of such patients in Pune district of Maharashtra reached 6,643 on Wednesday, a health official said.Click here full Covid-19 coverageWith the death of nine more persons due to coronavirus infection, the number of victims went up to 298 in the district, the official said.Pune city accounted for 105 of the 163 new cases, followed by Pimpri Chinchwad with 13 and Cantonment and rural areas with 45, he added.“Pune city has 5,607 Covid-19 cases, Pimpri Chinchwad 436 and rural areas 600,” he said.The district is one of the Covid-19 hotspots in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-cases-in-pune-district-climb-to-6-643-death-toll-298/story-FFJftTnjax2xaP7lUg7DSO.html
28-05-2020||Pune||Chemical leak from tanker causes panic in Pune||A chemical leaked from a tanker near Chandani Chowk here on Wednesday night, causing panic in the area, Fire Brigade officials said.According to the officials, the chemical-laden tanker was coming from Panvel in Navi Mumbai and heading towards adjoining Satara district in western Maharashtra.When it reached near Chandani Chowk on the Mumbai- Bengaluru highway, on outskirts of Pune city, on Wednesday night, a leak from the tanker was noticed, they said.“Some sort of acid or chemical started oozing out from the tanker and started turning into vapour once it touched the road.Also read: ‘It turned into a fog’: Locals recount Vizag gas leak in which 11 were killed“Fumes of the chemical/acid caused soar throat and irritation, which led to panic among people around. The stench of the acid spread in adjoining areas,” said a Fire Brigade officer.The tanker could not be moved from the road as its tyres had got air-locked, he said.“To stop the acid spread on the highway, we diverted its flow towards soil on the roadside. Officials of the chemical firm concerned have been summoned with another tanker to transfer the acid,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/chemical-leak-from-tanker-causes-panic-in-pune/story-93cTR7Is39ILTfuZbi0YlK.html
28-05-2020||Patna||Nitish ‘shielding’ JD(U) MLA accused of murder: Tejashwi||RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav on Wednesday charged Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar of “shielding” a JD (U) MLA, named in a triple murder case, and demanded the legislator’s immediate arrest.He said if the MLA is not arrested at the earliest, he along with supporters would march to the home turf of the accused.Tejashwi Yadav made the statement at a press conference that he convened in the morning at the residence of his mother and former chief minister Rabri Devi.He alleged that the police was not arresting Amarendra Nath Pandey alias Pappu Pandey, who represents the Kuchaikote assembly segment in Gopalganj district, since he was close to Nitish Kumar, who heads the Janata Dal (United).Pandey has been named in an FIR lodged in connection with the attack that took place on Sunday night at the residence of Gopalganj-based RJD leader J P Yadav, who suffered grievous injuries while his parents and a brother were killed.Pandey’s brother and nephew have been arrested even though the MLA is being traced by police. “Nitish Kumar is shielding the MLA. I warn the government, if Pappu Pandey is not arrested by Thursday evening, I will take all MLAs of my party along and march to Gopalganj seeking justice,” said Tejashwi Yadav whose father and RJD supremo Lalu Prasad was born and brought up in Gopalganj.In a tweet, Deputy Chief Minister and senior BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi took strong exception to the use of the word ‘narsanhaar’ (massacre) by the RJD leader while referring to the triple murder and recalled the mass killings by rival ultra-Left groups and private militias of landlords that used to make headlines when Lalu Prasad-Rabri Devi together ruled Bihar for 15 years.The 30-year-old RJD leader, who has been named by the party as its chief ministerial candidate for the assembly elections due later this year, chose to step up the offensive and met Governor Fagu Chauhan at the Raj Bhavan.Tejashwi Yadav submitted a memorandum drawing the governors attention towards the Gopalganj killings, The RJD leader claimed the killings indicated collapse of law and order.Statements were put out both the JD(U) and the BJP debunking Tejashwi Yadav’s allegation of collapse of law and order and asserted that the state government will not spare whoever is found guilty.However, Tejashwi Yadav, who is known for his composure, remained livid over the issue and his Twitter handle was abuzz with posts about the Gopalganj killings. Meanwhile, Tejashwi Yadav’s extreme anguish over an incident that involved a lower rank official of his party who had switched over from the CPI(ML) to the RJD a few months ago left alliance partner RLSP amused.RLSP national general secretary and chief spokesman Madhaw Anand said in a statement there can be no two views about the horrendousness of the killings and the need for bringing to justice its perpetrators. “But we wish Tejashwi Yadav were most consistent in his sense of outrage,” he said.“There have been so many instances of violence, which he has refused to take note of simply because the accused happened to be from his Yadav clan while the victims were upper caste Bhumihars. Tejashwi Yadav needs to show a big heart if he wants to make it big in politics,” Anand said.The MLA Amarendra Nath Pandey, meanwhile, appeared on a few regional news channels pleading innocence and alleging that Sunday’s killings have sparked violence from RJD supporters in Gopalganj whom he blamed for the murder of his cousin, shot dead by unidentified motorcyclists on the previous night. PTI NAC SOM ANB ANB ANB||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/nitish-shielding-jd-u-mla-accused-of-murder-tejashwi/story-jKiqjzg9M1KXZKZl8jrFJM.html
28-05-2020||Lucknow||In rural Lucknow, boys join sisters in making sanitary pads||In much of India, the word ‘menstruation’ is taboo and a large part of the population, particularly women, shies away from talking about menstrual products out of embarrassment. But in rural Malihabad (Lucknow) two girls Aneesha and Deeksha are enlisting their brothers’ help to sew sanitary pads. “I was happy to see that my brother, who is in Class 8, did not feel ashamed to make sanitary napkins with me. Everyone thinks that menstruation is a curse, but it’s a natural, healthy process,” said Aneesha Kanaujia, who appeared in Class 12 UP Board exam and is awaiting her result.Her brother Anmol enjoyed the new experience, saying, “At first I didn’t know what she was making. But then she explained it to me and told me about menstrual hygiene. I think many people feel ashamed discussing this topic because they don’t know how important it is.”The good thing was that no one in the family objected to their work. “Our parents never opposed the idea and allowed us to work together in stitching sanitary pads,” Aneesha said.Another girl Deeksha saw this lockdown period as an opportunity to do something for other girls who lack access to menstrual products. “There are so many girls who don’t have money to buy pads,” she said, adding. “I want to make more pads and distribute them among the girls who need them.”Deeksha has also appeared in Class 12 exam and is preparing for entrance examination to seek admission to Delhi University.Like Anmol, Deeksha’s brother Himanshu, who is in Class 9, said he also learned a lot from his sister about menstruation and menstrual hygiene. “My sister explained about menstrual hygiene and I helped her in stitching sanitary pads which she distributed among adolescent girls who are not financially well off,” Himanshu said. This campaign to make sanitary napkins is being coordinated by Zarine García, director of Youth Leadership at Study Hall Educational Foundation.Even amidst the lockdown, the campaign has given these kids from Malihabad the opportunity to spread awareness about menstrual hygiene and being about a positive change. However, both girls were of the view that disposable pads were a drain on women and their families and had the problem of disposing them of .“It is heartening to see these kids take the discussion home to their families to eliminate stigma and spread the message that periods are natural and nothing to be ashamed of. This May, in honor of Menstrual Hygiene Day, our students are learning to sew their own cloth sanitary napkins at home, and daring to break age-old taboos by drying them outside in the sun,” said Garcia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-malihabad-boys-join-sisters-in-making-sanitary-pads/story-Oj0fzJMOMQR7qxID75ScPK.html
28-05-2020||Patna||As Covid-19 cases go up across Bihar, CM Nitish calls for setting up more isolation facilities||With the number of Covid-19 cases continuing to grow rapidly in Bihar, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar instructed officials on Wednesday to set up more isolation centres and suggested utilisation of unused government buildings, besides privately-owned ones, for the purpose.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAt a high-level meeting that he chaired to review the pandemic, which has affected more than 3,000 people and claimed 15 lives in the state so far, the chief minister reiterated the need for conducting more tests and called for roping in the private sector for meeting the requirements.“We need more isolation centres. The number of beds in the hospital isolation wards should be increased. Additional isolation centres may be set up at government buildings.“The state government has got a large number of structures built, some of which are lying unused. These should come in handy. Private premises, including hotels, can also be acquired for the purpose,” he told the meeting.The meeting was attended among others by state Health Minister Mangal Pandey, Chief Secretary Deepak Kumar and Principal Secretary, Health, Uday Singh Kumawat.The chief minister’s directive came in the backdrop of a huge spike in the number of Covid-19 cases during the month. The state has registered over 2,500 fresh cases so far this month, mainly on account of a large number of migrant labourers returning home by special trains.Kumar also reiterated the need to increase the number of tests being conducted every day, with a special emphasis on those coming from outside Bihar, and said, “The private sector too should have facilities for detecting coronavirus.” He also stressed the need for “being positive” towards the migrants who return home upon completing their stay at the quarantine centres for the stipulated period of time, besides the infected patients discharged from hospitals upon full recovery.“They have endured untold sufferings. It is our collective responsibility to ensure their well-being,” the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/as-covid-19-cases-go-up-across-bihar-cm-nitish-calls-for-setting-up-more-isolation-facilities/story-1TaGFUbZGVkIdIh9g62pXN.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||40-year-old killed as car plunges down a 300-ft gorge in Shimla||A man was killed when his vehicle skidded off the road into a 300-ft gorge near Kumarsain in Shimla on Wednesday.The victim, Devinder, 40, is a resident of Jhamol village, Kumarsain tehsil, Shimla.The accident took place on the Kingal-Baragaon link road around 6.30pm when the victim lost control over the wheel.A local resident informed the police. He was rushed to the civil hospital where he was declared brought dead. Rampur Bushahr deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Abhimaniyou Verma confirmed the report and said the police are conducting an investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/40-year-old-killed-as-car-plunges-down-a-300-ft-gorge-in-shimla/story-MZGOBbaqXLRDIe0F68l5uK.html
28-05-2020||Mumbai||Maha Housing Minister blames his ‘reckless behaviour’ for contracting Covid||Maharashtra Housing Minister Jitendra Awhad has blamed his “reckless behaviour for getting infected with the novel coronavirus.Awhad, who has now recovered from the infection after spending some days in hospital earlier this month, said he had to be kept on ventilator support for over two days.“It was recklessness in my behaviour that was the cause of Covid, probably I did not take peoples advice seriously. Thats why I was caught in a trap, the NCP leader said on Wednesday while addressing an online seminar organised by BDA, a developers lobby.Notably, in the early days of Covid-19 outbreak in the state, Awhad, who is the guardian minister of Thane district, was seen moving around for relief work.The minister said it was his will power that helped him overcome the tough phase, and added that he has recovered fast in the last two weeks.Awhad said he considers himself lucky to have recovered so fast, when compared with the travails of others like an IAS officer of Maharashtra cadre having to import medicines or undergo plasma therapy.The minister said his hemoglobin level, which had dropped, has gone up and he is currently following a strict diet at specified timings.Another state Cabinet minister, who is a senior Congress leader, also tested positive for coronavirus recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-housing-minister-blames-his-reckless-behaviour-for-contracting-covid/story-n4Ea2wJrweR8XjD1zpxQIO.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab-origin expert appointed trustee of UK’s Natural History Museum||Prime Minister (PM) Boris Johnson on Wednesday appointed Yadvinder Malhi, professor of ecosystem science at the University of Oxford, as a trustee of one of London’s most popular visitor attractions: the Natural History Museum.A leading science research centre, the museum in south Kensington is host to around 80 million specimens spanning billions of years and welcomes more than five million visitors annually.Malhi, 52, has focused his research on the impact of climate change and other types of change on the biosphere, and how the protection and restoration of the biosphere can contribute to mitigating and adapting to climate change.Much of his work has focused on the tropics, and he has established a network of intensive study and monitoring of tropical ecosystems spanning Amazonia, Africa and Asia.Malhi is the former president of the Association for Tropical Biology and Conservation, chair of Trustees of the Global Biodiversity Foundation, a fellow of the Royal Society, and has authored or co-authored over 400 scientific papers on ecosystems and climate change.The tenure of the unpaid role is four years. The 12-member board of trustees of the museum includes Indian industrialist Anand Mahindra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-origin-expert-appointed-trustee-of-uk-s-natural-history-museum/story-q8UoBNhBNsSFDWNjdCp5EN.html
28-05-2020||Kolkata||BJP’s 9-point attack over Bengal govt’s respone to Covid-19, Cyclone Amphan||The opposition BJP in West Bengal listed nine “failures” of the Trinamool Congress government in West Bengal as it sharpened its attack on the Mamata Banerjee dispensation on Wednesday over the state’s response to the Covid-19 outbreak and the devastation caused by cyclone ‘Amphan’.State BJP president Dilip Ghosh said the list has been prepared in view of the present situation in West Bengal.The party said that the government has squarely failed in tackling the Covid-19 crisis and the state’s health infrastructure is on the verge of collapse.This, Ghosh said, has threatened the lives of the people.The BJP also charged the government for “failing” to deal with the devastation caused by the cyclone.Even after seven days, people of the state are in distress as many areas are still without electricity and water, he said.The BJP also attacked the government, alleging failure in distributing foodgrains among the people.It said that foodgrains were being diverted by workers of the ruling party and sold at high prices in the black market.The BJP alleged that the state’s economy is in ruins, and law and order have collapsed.Further, it alleged breakdown of the educational system in West Bengal, besides stating that the Trinamool Congress government is against the refugees.The BJP said the government is “anti-farmer” and “thrives on cut money and other irregular means”.Referring to the return of migrant workers, Ghosh said that if Maharashtra is willing to send back those from West Bengal and the railways is providing logistics, then why the state is so reluctant to receive them.He dismissed fears that the return of migrant workers may lead to a spike in Covid-19 cases.“Even if migrant workers do not come, cases of Covid- 19 will rise in the state,” Ghosh claimed.The BJP has been persistently attacking the TMC government raising these issues, leading to a war of words with the ruling party as the state faces the dual crisis of Covid-19 outbreak and cyclone ‘Amphan’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bjp-s-9-point-attack-over-bengal-govt-s-respone-to-covid-19-cyclone-amphan/story-z6ysFvAQhlDSXd3wJxsoMM.html
28-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai hotel blaze under control: 25 doctors rescued||Twenty five doctors and two others staying in a south Mumbai hotel were rescued after a major fire broke out in the five-storey building, officials said on Thursday.The fire broke out at Hotel Fortune near Metro Cinema late Wednesday night and was brought under control early Thursday, fire brigade officials said.“The fire spread from the first to the third floor of the hotel, a fire brigade official told PTI. It was a level-2 fire and eight fire engines were rushed to the spot, he added.The fire was confined to the electric wiring and cables in the electrical duct, false ceiling in the lobby and the common passages on the first, second and third floors of the hotel, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-hotel-blaze-under-control-25-doctors-rescued/story-jIX59NzXrJZHNAmdMhsGTM.html
28-05-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand’s Covid-19 tally mounts to 458, over 30 new cases reported||Jharkhand has reported 32 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total to 458, according to a bulletin issued by the state government on Wednesday. There are 258 active cases in the state at present, while 175 people have been discharged after recovering from the disease, it said. Four persons have so far died due to Covid-19 in the state, the bulletin said. Of the total cases, 279 were detected among migrant workers who returned from outside the state. The recovery rate in the state is 41.70 per cent, while the mortality rate is 0.87 per cent, the bulletin said. Total 5,343 travellers are under surveillance and asymptomatic, while 3,901 people have completed observation of 28 days, it said. Total 97,450 people are in various quarantine centres across the state and 2,52,168 are undergoing home isolation, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-s-covid-19-tally-mounts-to-458-over-30-news-cases-reported/story-F5f3mLwVWroVYjhFfGlorM.html
28-05-2020||Lifestyle||‘I was determined’, says Jyoti Kumari, the 15-year-old who cycled injured father across India||A 15-year-old girl who won praise for carrying her injured father hundreds of miles across India by bike said on Wednesday she never thought of giving up after promising her mother she would get him home safely.Jyoti Kumari’s gruelling journey from the outskirts of New Delhi to their village 1,200 km (745 miles) away with her jobless father made headlines around the world and threw a spotlight on the plight of India’s unemployed migrant workers.The teenager said she had promised her mother she would deliver him home when they ran out of food and money to pay rent after India locked down to curb the spread of the coronavirus.“I was determined to reach home with my father safely. My mother had given me this responsibility,” she told the Thomson Reuters Foundation by phone from Sirhulli village in the poor eastern state of Bihar.“We even hitched a ride on a truck for about 50 kms, but giving up was nowhere on my mind,” she said after cycling for more than a week.Tens of thousands of migrant workers were forced to make their own way home when India announced one of the world’s strictest lockdowns and their work disappeared overnight.Scores fell ill or died along the way as they walked hundreds of miles in intense heat after most public transport was halted.Kumari had travelled from Bihar to visit her father, a rickshaw driver, in March after an accident left him unable to cycle, and stayed on to cook and clean for him.Her story of grit and determination captured the imagination of people across the country, with images of her on a pink bicycle with her father going viral on social media.India’s cycling federation invited her for trials and U.S. presidential adviser Ivanka Trump drew criticism for praising her, with opposition figures saying the pair’s desperate journey was not something to celebrate.Health experts say India’s vast lockdown has helped limit the spread of COVID-19, but it has pushed millions who live on daily wages to the brink of poverty.After weeks of mounting criticism and tales of hardship, the government is now running trains and buses to help the migrants get home.Carrying just a small bag of flattened rice and a few clothes, the two mainly survived on biscuits and food given to them by people when they took rest breaks at roadsides and fuel stations.When they arrived, she said, all she wanted to do was “sleep and eat dal-bhaat (rice and lentils)”.Since then, local politicians and journalists have made a beeline to meet Kumari - to her bemusement.She has said she did not regularly attend school in the past because the family was poor and she had chores at home, but now intends to resume her studies.Bihar is one of India’s most under-developed and conservative states, where child marriage is rife and girls are routinely denied education.“I never thought I would be famous,” said the shy teenager, who frequently asked her father to speak for her during the interview. “I think people are fascinated because I am a girl.”(This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed. )Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/i-was-determined-says-jyoti-kumari-the-15-year-old-who-cycled-injured-father-across-india/story-meU9OOCVLouwnjOtaRmClI.html
28-05-2020||Kolkata||Restore normalcy in districts hit by Cyclone Amphan, CM Mamata tells officials||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday directed officials to carry out restoration works on war-footing to bring back normalcy in the districts ravaged by Cyclone Amphan. She also advised them to constitute task forces in the districts, which should include MLAs, Zilla Parishad members, local police station officers to constantly monitor relief works.During a review meeting at the state secretariat, Banerjee said priority should be given to installing tube wells and rebuilding damaged embankments as the rainy season is approaching. “We have to complete restoration works on a war-footing. We have to rebuild the embankments which have been destroyed. The Sundarbans has been devastated. Embankments in areas like Sunderbans, Sagardweep and Namkhana are in very bad shape. We have to rebuild them before the monsoon sets in,” she said at the meeting.Availability of drinking water should also be ensured with high priority, Banerjee said, adding that Rs 100 crore was disbursed to install tube wells in the affected districts.“Ensure that all the victims get relief materials. I am ready to beg to provide them relief,” she added.Cyclone Amphan has affected at least eight districts, but North and South 24 Parganas bore the maximum brunt and their district magistrates must work on war footing along with superintendents of police, the chief minister said. The home secretary and the irrigation secretary will be camping in North and South 24 Parganas districts respectively for the next three days to oversee the restoration work. She also said that around 4.5 lakh electric poles have been uprooted in the districts and it would be difficult to fix new poles until the water recedes. “Around 90 per cent of restoration works of electricity has been done and only 10 per cent is remaining,” she said. Banerjee lauded the officials for evacuating over 8.5 lakh people before the landfall of the cyclone on May 20. There could have been nearly six lakh casualties otherwise, she said. Cyclone Amphan claimed 87 lives in the state while around two lakh people are currently in relief camps.“Around six crore people have been directly affected by Cyclone Amphan and 10 crore indirectly. More than 60 per cent of the state’s population has been affected,” the chief minister added. She also said the state-owned West Bengal State Electricity Board carried out restoration work in the power sector better than CESC, a private utility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/restore-normalcy-in-districts-hit-by-cyclone-amphan-cm-mamata-tells-officials/story-YnakWSax1Ihou27Zo8PuaN.html
28-05-2020||City||Ludhiana Covid toll 12, two cases found positive after death not included in list||As many as 12 patients have succumbed to Covid-19 in Ludhiana district. While seven of them were from the district, the other five, who died in city hospitals, belonged to other cities. However, two men, who tested Covid-19 positive after they died, have not been included in the list of the Covid fatalities.Among them, a 27-year-old man from Gagandeep Colony in Bhattian Bet died under mysterious circumstances on May 15. His mandatory corona test was conducted and the report received on May 19 confirmed he was Covid-19 positive.Similarly, the body of a 40-year-old man was found lying near the railway track in the Gill area on May 15. He was also found positive.However, the authorities said not counting these men in the Covid-19 list was not a policy decision.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “I cannot comment as to why they have not been included in the list of the dead. Only principal secretary (health) is the appropriate authority to answer the issue.”Principal secretary (health) Anurag Agrawal said the state had a liberal policy on Covid-19. “We have included even those in the list who had comorbidities. We are diligently conducting tests of the dead to find the source. In some cases, the deceased, who tested Covid-19 positive in the first test, was found negative in the repeat test. In the context of the two cases, I do not have the details.”State epidemiologist Dr Rajesh Bhasker said, “The details of the two deceased were not shared by the district authorities, otherwise they would be on the list.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-covid-toll-12-two-cases-found-positive-after-death-not-included-in-list/story-dJgd7nRAzzvLNqTEKwBP1J.html
28-05-2020||City||Patiala man held for murdering 17-year-old farm labourer in Ludhiana||The Ludhiana Rural police claim to have solved the murder of a 17-year-old boy, who was found dead in a field in Jagraon’s Punjabi Bagh area on May 25, with the arrest of a Patiala man. With the arrest of the accused, Mohammad Abdul, police have also solved another blind murder case from 2017.Police claimed that the accused sodomised the 17-year-old before strangling him to death with a rope, a portion of which was found near the body.The deceased, who hailed from Sundar Nagar, Odisha, was found dead in a farmer’s field, where he was employed as a labourer. Following the discovery, a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered against the unidentified assailant.“A team of CIA Jagraon and Jagraon City SHO carried out the investigation and arrested the accused. The police have recovered a rope, a plier and keys of the tubewell room, where the deceased lived, from the possession of the accused,” said Vivek Sheel Soni, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Ludhiana Rural, adding that the boy’s clothes that Abdul had hidden in the nearby bushes were also found.Stating that they were tracing his past record, the SSP said Abdul had confessed to sodomising the boy before strangling him to death.According to police, he killed the boy to settle a score with the father of the farmer for whom the deceased worked. He killed the boy in the farmer’s field and left him there to defame the family.MURDERED ANOTHER YOUTHSoni said Abdul had confessed to killing another youth in February 2017. The deceased’s naked body was found in Gulabi Bagh, Jagraon, following which a case under Sections 302, 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender) of the IPC was registered against the unidentified accused.“Abdul has confessed to strangling this youth as well. He is being questioned further,” the SSP said.CONCEALING IDENTITYSoni said while the accused belonged to a Jatt Sikh family, he was concealing his real identity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patiala-man-held-for-murdering-17-year-old-farm-labourer-in-ludhiana/story-uI7l9ScZVrwBV41k5pto7O.html
28-05-2020||City||International airport at Halwara to be ready in three years: Ludhiana MP||International flights from the Halwara Airport in Ludhiana are expected to take off in the next three years and will give a new direction to the development of Ludhiana and its adjoining areas, local member of Parliament Ravneet Singh Bittu said.In a press release issued on Wednesday, Bittu said the Punjab government was working to ensure that this airport became operational in the next two-and-a-half years. “The first phase of the project will include the development of a new international civil terminal over 135.54 acres for full-fledged operations up to Code-4C type aircraft. The Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) has already taken possession of this land,” he said, adding that they will try to get the runway and terminal building completed on priority to aid operations of international flights at the earliest.Bittu said in lieu of the acquired land, farmers were paid a compensation of Rs 20.6 lakh per acre (including 100% solatium, 12% AP and 1.25 multiplier factor). Besides, each eligible family will also be paid Rs 5.5 lakh as rehabilitation and resettlement amount.After completing all formalities, GLADA acquired land in a peaceful manner, with the consent of land owners on May 22.The New Civil and Cargo International Air Terminal, coming up at the IAF Station, Halwara, is a joint venture of the Punjab government and the Airport Authority of India (AAI) with a 51:49 share. Besides boosting economic development, the airport will generate employment opportunities and bring in tourism in this part of Punjab, the Ludhiana MP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/international-airport-at-halwara-to-be-ready-in-three-years-ludhiana-mp/story-Q6zxJqVlo0uYUY95otxUBL.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Ex-sarpanch, panchayat secretary booked for embezzling Rs 59.75 lakh in Punjab||A former sarpanch of Moga district’s Khosa Kotla village and then panchayat secretary were booked on Wednesday for alleged embezzlement of funds to the tune of Rs 59.75 lakh, nearly 16 months after the scam surfaced in an inquiry conducted by the department of rural development and panchayats. The accused are Jagraj Singh, the former sarpanch, and then panchayat secretary Jasjeet Singh. The alleged embezzlement took place between 2013 and 18. According to the probe, the two forged signatures of other members on panchayat resolutions, besides misappropriating the funds.The report prepared by then district development and panchayat officer (DDPO) Lakhwinder Singh Randhawa stated, “It was found that the panchayat had revenue (grants and funds) of Rs 1.79 crore, Rs 98 lakh expenditure while Rs 21.53 lakh was deposited in the bank accounts. The record shows a shortfall of Rs 59.75 lakh and officials have failed to give any explanation. It was also found that payments were made without passing panchayat resolutions.” Block development and panchayat officer (BDPO) Sukhwinder Sidhu said several notices were issued to the accused to clarify the shortfall or deposit the money but they failed to comply. A case has been registered against the accused under Section 409 (criminal breach of trust by a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).‘Implicated in fake rape case for pursuing case’The complainant in the case, Veer Singh, alleged that he was implicated in a false rape case in 2018 by the accused to stop him from pursuing the complaint against them. “I had gathered the information on the gram panchayat’s working through RTIs. After finding irregularities, I reported this to the department. A false case was registered against me in May 2018 and my bail was rejected by the lower court,” he said.“Later, my son contacted that woman, who had levelled fake rape allegations against me. He filmed the conversation in which she tells how she implicated me in a false case. We submitted the evidence in the Punjab and Haryana high court and to the Punjab director general of police (DGP) after which the case was dismissed,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ex-sarpanch-panchayat-secretary-booked-for-embezzling-rs-59-75-lakh-in-punjab/story-2yS6MxTmGDQt0k6nvvw5cJ.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Sidhu Moosewala case: Four cops among 5 accused get interim bail||A Sangrur court on Wednesday granted interim bail to the five accused, including four suspended policemen, in alleged firing at Ladda Kothi shooting range. The police had booked Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala, his friends and some police personnel on May 5, when a video of the singer went viral on social media in which he could be seen firing from a ‘private pistol’.Additional sessions judge Gurpartap Singh also directed them to join the investigation within seven days. The next date of hearing was fixed on June 9.Those who got interim bail are assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Balkar Singh, head constable Gurjinder Singh, and constables Jasbir Singh and Harwinder Singh. Another accused Jang Sher Singh, son of suspended deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Daljit Singh Virk also got the bail.A case was registered under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act initially. Later, Sections 25, 29 and 30 of the Arms Act were added to the first information report (FIR) on May 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sidhu-moosewala-case-four-cops-among-5-accused-get-interim-bail/story-cv9tis6yyf7tqLnOni0rWO.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||2 held for Sangrur village sacrilege||Sangrur police have arrested two persons for an incident of sacrilege reported from Gaggarpur village, around 12km from district headquarters on May 19, on Wednesday. “We have arrested Mall Singh and Charanjit Singh, who had previously been booked under Section 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs),” said Rakesh Kumar, Sadar SHO, Sangrur.A number of Sikh organisations, however, protested in the town on Wednesday, claiming that the accused needed to be strictly punished, and alleged a cover-up was attempted.Bachittar Singh, president Granthi Ragi Sabha Sangrur, claimed that the sacrilege happened during an altercation between granthi Charanjit Singh and a villager, Mall Singh, in the village gurdwara. He claimed a weapon one of them used against another ended up tearing the pages of the holy book.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-held-for-sangrur-village-sacrilege/story-Nhk3ZUWfMQyXXZMO9sAI8M.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Yamunanagar : 40-year-old woman dies in clash between two groups||A 40-year-old woman died of head injuries sustained during a clash that broke out between two families over an incident of eve-teasing in Jaidhar village of Yamunanagar’s Chhachhrauli block on Tuesday night. As per the reports, two women had gone to a nearby animal enclosure when some local men, who were already present there, allegedly harassed them and tore their clothes. One of the women, who is also the complainant in the case, said, “The accused grabbed my sister-in-law and started tearing her clothes. They also did the same with me. We informed our family and many people gathered. Some people started pelting stones at us and a stone hit our neighbour Sunita. She was taken to the civil hospital in Jagadhri, where she succumbed to her injuries.” Station in-charge Prithvi Singh said, “A case was registered under sections 148, 149, 302, 323, 354 (D) and 452 of the IPC against 12 accused, of whom Mewa Ram and Budh Ram have been arrested on Wednesday. Autopsy of Sunita was also conducted that revealed a head injury as the cause of death. We are probing the case further.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/yamunanagar-40-year-old-woman-dies-in-clash-between-two-groups/story-uANZNcnpDIHjdCPGxx47eL.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Locust threat: Farmers must keep strict vigil, say experts||Experts at Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University (CCSHAU) here have advised the farmers to keep strict vigil over their crops in order to guard them against the locust attack.CCSHAU assistant entomologist Dr Anil Jakhar said locusts can enter Dabwali and Ellenabad area from Rajasthan’s Sri Ganganagar and Punjab’s Abohar side. Jakhar also said that some districts of Haryana like Fatehabad, Bhiwani and Mahendergarh were at higher risk.Dr Yogesh Kumar, principal scientist and head of entomology, said, “We are in constant touch with the state government regarding the issue. Our team is ready and will visit the sites if locusts reach Haryana. We are also in contact of Locust Warning Organisation. The farmers must keep an eye on their crops and inform the scientists if they see swarms around their fields.” Haryana agriculture department on Wednesday also put the farmers and district administrations on high alert for handling the locust attack situation. Additional chief secretary, agriculture, Sanjeev Kaushal ordered that deputy commissioners (DCs) will be the nodal officers for locust control while deputy director, agriculture, will be responsible for updating the DCs and headquarters regarding locust attack, preparedness and stocking of pesticide. In case of an attack, the DCs will make use of pesticides supplied by HAFED, HLRDC, HAIC and HSDC.“The DCs may also coordinate with their counterparts in adjoining districts to take help of manpower,” said an order issued on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/locust-threat-farmers-must-keep-strict-vigil-say-experts/story-IRpcmXrc0C8vq48ibNa9dL.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Jhajjar: Bizman rescued after exchange of fire, 3 abductors held||In a special operation, police on Wednesday arrested three abductors after a brief exchange of fire in Jhajjar and rescued the managing director of a private factory, who was allegedly abducted by them when he was on way to his home in Delhi. The accused are Sumit, Vishal Kumar and Sandeep Kumar of Jhajjar’s Barhan village. The police have recovered three countrymade pistols from their procession as well.Jhajjar DIG Ashok Kumar said Vishal, the managing director of a private factory at Jhajjar’s Asauda area, was going to Delhi around 11am in his car.“The accused came in Alto and Santro cars and abducted him somewhere between Jhajjar and Bahadurgarh City. They then asked Vishal to call his wife and seek Rs 50 lakh from her by claiming that he had got injured in a road accident. Later, the accused forced the victim to call his colleague Manoj, general manager of the company, and asked him to narrate the same story. However, Manoj approached Bahadurgarh City SHO Bijender Singh. The SHO contacted us and we formed three teams — two of CIA personnel and one of Asauda police. With the help of cyber crime cell, we traced their location near Jasaur Kheri village area in the district and arrested them after an exchange of fire. We rescued the businessman in an hour,” the Jhajjar DIG added.He said all three accused were injured in the firing and undergoing treatment at the Bahadurgarh civil hospital where they were said to be stable.“After their treatment, we will produce them in a court and seek their remand,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jhajjar-bizman-rescued-after-exchange-of-fire-3-abductors-held/story-k7jGuStVqJkuNzJU3HuXPL.html
28-05-2020||Delhi||CBI books rice mill, 3 directors in ₹100-cr cheating cases||The CBI has booked Karnal-based Shakti Basmati Rice Pvt Ltd and its three directors for allegedly cheating the State Bank of India (SBI) to the tune of over Rs 100 crore, officials said on Wednesday. Directors Shyam Lal, Parveen Kumar and Suresh Kumar allegedly obtained credit facilities from the SBI’s commercial branch in Haryana’s Karnal by misrepresentation of facts, a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) spokesperson said. The company, which manufactured grain mill products (rice), allegedly diverted the loan amount for introduction of share capital, inflated the sale and purchase figures, and devalued stocks to show losses to justify diversion of funds by selling stock out of books, the officials said.The company allegedly failed to repay the loan amount resulting in the loss of Rs 100.46 crore to the bank. The agency has also booked unnamed public servants in the case, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cbi-books-rice-mill-3-directors-in-100-cr-cheating-cases/story-O0jlCYeJXIyDtMQYavOaGK.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||School fee: HC issues notice to Haryana govt||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday issued a notice to the Haryana government over a plea from private schools challenging the state’s move to not allow them to collect enhanced fee and other funds from students for academic session 2020-21 in view of Covid-19 outbreak.The notice was issued by high court bench of Justice Raj Mohan Singh for June 4 on the plea of Sarv Vidyalya Sangh, which comprises 87 member schools of the state. Their counsel, Pankaj Maini, had said they have been told to only collect monthly tuition fee and not demand other charges like building fund, maintenance fund, admission charges etc. Each school will have to incur a loss between ₹20 to ₹25 lakh due to the order, the court was told, adding that the decision would have a bearing on payment of salaries to staff members and water bills, electricity bills and property tax etc. The government response has been sought by June 4.Meanwhile, the high court allowed 3,000-odd Punjab schools to collect 70% of the total fee from students for the academic session 2020-2021. The order was passed on the petition of Punjab Schools Welfare Association on Wednesday. Earlier on May 22, the HC had allowed private schools in Punjab to charge 70 percent of fee directing that the teachers in these schools would have to be paid 70 percent of their salaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/school-fee-hc-issues-notice-to-haryana-govt/story-PsvCrv5NEltpDnmQzVbxzK.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||With 30% seat occupancy, PRTC stares at huge losses||Having resumed service last week after 60 days of curfew in Punjab, the Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) is finding it financially unviable to ply its buses on roads as they are running with mere 30% seat occupancy. Moreover, the corporation, which is running just 10% of its fleet of 1,073 buses, is unable even to recover the operational costs, including maintenance and fuel expenses.Presently, the state-run buses are plying only on inter-district routes and the government is yet to give nod to the private transporters to begin service.The corporation faced a loss of Rs 51 crore in the first 60 days of the lockdown, with average daily loss pegged at Rs 85 lakh.PRTC managing director Jaskaran Singh said, “In the first few days, as many as 80 buses were pressed into service and 30 more have been added. On an average, 3,000 people are commuting in theses buses daily. The number is very less as per our expectations.”“The operational cost, including maintenance, can be recovered only if there is more than 60% of seat occupancy,” he said.Before the state government banned public transport service in wake of the pandemic on March 20, the corporation recorded a daily income of Rs 1.40 crore. Its monthly income has been estimated at Rs 42 crore.“We will take up the issue of financial losses during and after the lockdown with the state government so as to get some monetary assistance,” Singh said.PRTC chairman KK Sharma said the people are reluctant to use public transport due to fear of spread of the coronavirus.“The low occupancy could be gauged from the fact that even on key routes like Patiala-Chandigarh, not more that 15 commuters have boarded a bus so far. The spending on diesel per bus is more than fare collection,” Sharma said.They are appealing to people to travel in corporation buses as these are properly sanitised before every journey, he added. “The general managers have been asked to implement the time table so that the commuters do not face any inconvenience,” he said. Another official said with no income during the lockdown, the corporation exhausted its savings and funds in paying salaries and pensions to its employees for March and April.“However, with poor response after resumption of services, it will be difficult for the corporation to meet its committed liabilities, amounting Rs 46 crore per month, in the coming months,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/with-30-seat-occupancy-prtc-stares-at-huge-losses/story-4RZ0pQK2duE9f6UmCbTcuK.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||53-year-old woman dies, Haryana’s case count reaches 1,381||With a steep spike of 76 new cases, the Covid-19 count climbed to 1,381 in Haryana on Wednesday. Also, the state recorded its 18th casualty due to the virus with the death of a 53-year old woman in Faridabad.Senior doctors said she also had chronic renal ailments. Faridabad district has recorded seven of the total 18 deaths due to Covid-19.Faridabad also reported maximum cases (25) on Wednesday, which included two foreign-returnees (from Afghanistan and Oman), followed by Gurugram (20), Sonepat (11), Palwal (8), Jhajjar (4) Rohtak and Narnaul (3 each) and Karnal and Sirsa (1 each). The data showed that more than 55% cumulative cases and about 60% active cases were from three districts — Faridabad, Gurugram and Sonepat. Most of the new cases, doctors said, were contacts of already infected persons or those who had been visiting Delhi from Faridabad and Gurugram.11 TEST POSITIVE IN SONEPATThe Sonepat cases included two couples, a 20-year-old woman, a 15-year-old girl, a 42-year-old labourer and a 44-year-old woman, who worked at a private factory. Sonepat DC Shyam Lal Punia said the infected patients, except a 28-year-old who is admitted to a Delhi hospital, have been sent to the isolation ward at BPS medical college.4 FOREIGN-RETURNEES FOUND INFECTED IN JHAJJARFour persons, who had returned from aboard, tested positive for the virus in Jhajjar. A 22-year-old man with travel history to Delhi was also found infected in Karnal. In Kurukshetra too, a 22-year-old labourer was tested positive. SUDDEN SPURT BRINGS DOWNS RECOVERY RATEEven though 14 more patients were discharged after their treatment, the recent spurt in new cases brought down the recovery rate of Haryana in the past few days. The rate which had crossed 66% five days ago fell down by 6% on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/53-year-old-woman-dies-haryana-s-case-count-reaches-1-381/story-c9kzxUlHYl0mvPbgbFtvbO.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Bright spark for PSPCL as Centre removes ‘washed coal’ condition||Cash-strapped Punjab State Power Corporation Ltd. has got a major relief as the Union government has done away with ‘washed coal’ condition for power plants.With this, the PSPCL will save at least ₹400 crore per annum, besides it gets a breather in a contempt petition filed by private thermal plants, seeking ₹2,800-crore coal washing charges from the corporation. It will bring down the power-generation cost in Punjab.Till now, it was mandatory for plants to use washed coal to reduce the ash content. It was a cumbersome process and private plants were demanding washing charges from the PSPCL.Private power plants and PSPCL were caught in a legal battle over coal washing charges. After losing the case in the Supreme Court, the PSPCL were to bear ₹1,790 crore against coal washing charges for the period between 2012 and 2019 (October), along with the future annual burden of ₹400 crore. However, private thermal plants were demanding ₹2,800 crore.To make for the additional burden of ₹1,790 crore, the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) in first week of January this year allowed a surcharge on power consumers, making power costlier by 35 paise per unit in the state.The Supreme Court had directed the PSPCL to pay ₹2,800 crore to Larsen & Toubro (L&T) to compensate it for coal washing and transportation cost. L&T runs Nabha Power Limited (NPL), Rajpura, and Talwandi Sabo Power Plant under a power purchase agreement it had signed with the power corporation.The overall impact of the judgment would have been ₹8,000 crore in next 20 years, the remaining time period of PSPCL’s power purchase agreement with L&T, which the PSPCL will now save.When contacted, PSPCL CMD Baldev Singh Sran said the Union environment ministry’s step is welcome as it will prove most beneficial for Punjab. “Doing away with coal washing will help us save ₹400 crore per year. It will ultimately reduce power production cost and benefit consumers accordingly,” said Sran, adding “now the legal battle over coal washing charges has become infructuous. It’s a major relief for PSPCL”.WHAT IS COAL WASHING CHARGES AND LEGAL TROUBLE FOR PSPCLThe issue pertains to washing charges and measuring calorific value of coal at the mine while loading. The PSPCL had rejected the L&T claim to get coal washing charges, saying that as per the PPA and ministry of environment norms, the L&T has to use only washed coal for power generation in Punjab. The L&T contested the PSPCL claim in the Supreme Court saying the PPA mentions using only washed coal, but the washing charges, which comes around ₹500 crore annually for both thermal plants, have to borne by the power distributor. The power regulator and appellate tribunal for electricity had passed orders in favour of the PSPCL, but the apex court overturned it.As the PSPCL didn’t implement the earlier judgment in toto, L&T filed a contempt petition in 2019, in which apex court again reiterated that the point of measuring the calorific value of coal for power plants would be at the project site. And the cost of washing coal could be added to the tariff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bright-spark-for-pspcl-as-centre-removes-washed-coal-condition/story-QelreGR7XXAVqjdzdntfKP.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||84-year grandma a lockdown star with soulful singing of Punjabi folk song||When Mumbai-based actor Mansi Multani recorded a favourite song of her maternal grandmother and posted it on her Timeline on the Facebook she had not anticipated that it would become the quarantine hit.The folk song, ‘Pauna ni mein laal ghaghra’ (I want to wear a red skirt), was sung melodiously and went straight to the hearts of the people leading it to be shared copiously on social media and appearing in WhatsApp with the silver-haired beauty, charming one and all with her joie-de-vivre.A guessing game started on the singer’s identity and someone decided that this was the 93-year-old yesteryear film star Kamini Kaushal singing and thus the post circulated till rebuttals started coming from many music buffs, including Sunaini, grand-daughter of famous Punjabi singer late Surinder Kaur, who said: “The song is beautifully sung but she is not Kamini Kaushal auntie!”Certainly not, she is Romila Arora who had migrated with her family and parents from Lahore to Delhi at the time of The Partition in 1947. Looking back she says, “I was very fond of singing and would copy all the songs I heard. In Delhi, I would participate in the children’s singing programmes of All India Radio.” Her grand-daughter Mansi adds, “She could not pursue her music and after completing studies, she worked in the Punjab National Bank to augment the family income of the migrant family as she was the eldest of six siblings.” Mansi adds that her grandma had been her inspiration and it was this particular song which had become the grand finale for a prominent play ‘Piya Behrupia’, Atul Kumar’s musical adaptation of Shakespeare’s ‘Twelfth Night’ which was part of the London Cultural Olympics in 2012.Romila, who moved from Kolkata after her husband’s death, chose to live at a senior citizens’ complex in Bhiwadi to be independent as well as close to her children in Delhi. “I am very happy to be in Bhiwadi as I did not want to live in Delhi and they take good care of us here.” Mansi, who shares a special bond with her, says, “I decided to record some of her songs to preserve the magic of her singing and I had no idea what a warm response she would get from the people!” Romila in turn adds, “Mansi is taking forward my love of music and it gives me joy to hear her sing so well.”An endearing shot before the singing is when grandma chides Mansi that it is important for her to arrange her ‘dupatta’ because the senior woman wants to look ‘nice’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/84-year-grandma-a-lockdown-star-with-soulful-singing-of-punjabi-folk-song/story-EE9mFTHuD1uoAUAFLifYDO.html
28-05-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 toll may go up as hospital reports 53 previous deaths||The number of deaths reported due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi may see a spike, with the Safdarjung hospital on Wednesday informing the Capital’s audit committee about 53 deaths that occurred between February 1 and May 16, according to officials.The national capital on Wednesday recorded 792 fresh Covid-19 cases, the steepest single-day rise, taking the overall infections to 15,257. The official death toll rose to 303, but the figure did not include the fatalities newly reported by the Safdarjung hospital.“The 53 deaths were reported from the hospital between February 1 and May 16... We report the progress of every case, including deaths, to the health ministry every day, twice a day,” said Dr Balvinder Singh, medical superintendent of the hospital, which is run by the central government.The Delhi government said the hospital reported the big jump in deaths only on Wednesday. “The Delhi government had issued strict orders to all hospitals to submit their death summaries to the death audit committee within 24 hours. We have even sent reminders to all hospitals for compliance of the same. All our Delhi government hospitals are submitting their reports to the committee daily,” a spokesperson of the Delhi government said.“It (the hospital) had reported only four deaths till now. The government is seriously looking at why this delay has happened,” the spokesperson added.On May 10, Delhi’s chief secretary, Vijay Dev, ordered all designated Covid-19 hospitals to report the deaths each day by 5pm. But the hospitals have been lax in reporting them along with the requisite documentation.A senior official from Delhi’s health department confirmed that the deaths were yet to be added to Delhi’s official death toll. “This (the lag in reporting) is the reason there have been delays in adding the deaths to the daily bulletin. The government adds the numbers as soon as the death review committee gets the files – case sheets, investigations, death summary – and determines it indeed is a Covd-19 death,” the official said on condition of anonymity.If the 49 deaths – four fatalities from the Safdarjung hospital have already been added to the official tally – were approved by the Delhi audit committee, the official figure on Wednesday would have stood at 352, taking the case fatality rate to 2.3%, up from the current 2%.The case fatality rate is crucial in helping governments assess their response to the disease and in determining the course of action in terms of preparedness and effectiveness of the health care system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/toll-may-go-up-as-hospital-reports-53-previous-deaths/story-QkoLS4NUAlSGeukMolkZnL.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 fallout: Amritsar tourism & hospitality industry stares at uncertainty||The tourism and hospitality industry in Amritsar is staring at a bleak future in the wake of the lockdown imposed due to the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. Such is the situation that hotels, restaurants and guest houses, etc, which are directly dependent on tourism, are not only facing huge losses but they see no hope of revival in the near future. There are around 700 hotels and guest houses Amritsar which attracts international as well as domestic tourists. The Golden Temple, Partition Museum, Town Hall, Sadda Pind, War Memorial, Jallianwala Bagh, Attari-Wagah border, Durgiana Temple, Heritage Street, Ram Tirath Complex, Gobind fort and Pul Kanjari etc are among major tourist attraction centres. Besides, it is also known for its gourmet traditions with roadside eateries dishing out delicacies such as kulchas, chhola-bhaturas, tandoori chicken and fried fish, etc. “At this time, we can’t tell exactly how much loss the tourism industry has suffered during the lockdown period, but it has come to a complete halt. Besides hotels and restaurants, taxis and auto-rickshaw drivers as well as street vendors have been impacted badly,” said district tourism officer Gursharan Singh. Before the lockdown, the district had an average footfall of nearly 1 lakh domestic and international tourists on weekdays, and 1.5 lakh on weekends, according to the Punjab tourism department. “We are in touch with the government to revive the industry in near future,” said Singh.Surinder Singh, president, Federation of Hotels and Guest Houses Association, said, “It looks like it will take more than six months to contain the pandemic. Even if the tourists start coming here later, they won’t choose to stay in the hotels or dine at restaurants due to fear of infection. The government should step up to save the tourism industry on which livelihoods of hundreds of thousands are dependent on.”“We are still giving salaries to our staff. We want relief in Goods and Service Tax (GST), municipal corporation tax and in the electricity bills or many hoteliers who have taken loans will be forced to take extreme step,” said the association chairman Harinder Singh. Also, shopkeepers at the Attari border are facing a tough time due to the closure of beating the retreat ceremony for last two-and-a-half months. “There are 28 dhabas in Attari and all of them are closed as we are not finding any customer due to the closure of the retreat ceremony,” said Jagdish Singh, a dhaba owner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-fallout-amritsar-tourism-hospitality-industry-stares-at-uncertainty/story-UfbfAV93vhHDF8tuJiRxBM.html
28-05-2020||Lucknow||Absorb 1-10 migrants in every industrial unit: Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday asked officials to take steps for strengthening manpower in all the industrial units to pave the way for absorption of one to 10 migrant workers in every unit in Uttar Pradesh.He also said the work areas in all the industrial units should be surveyed and mapped.Adityanath was reviewing the lockdown situation at a high level meeting here.A senior official said the chief minister was informed that entrepreneurs from different industrial units had made a demand for five lakh workers/labourers listed in the state’s skill mapping data. The state government is carrying out skill mapping of all the migrant workers returning to the state and the chief minister wants the exercise to be completed in the next 15 days.The chief minister said 1337 trains had already reached UP while 104 more trains carrying migrants were on way to the state. The maximum Shramik special trains (208) had arrived at the Gorakhpur railway station, he said. The chief minister said all the migrant workers/labourers reaching the state should be screened and sent to quarantine or home quarantine.Sanitisation work in rural and urban areas should continue and arrangements should be made to provide food from the community kitchens.He said a work plan should be prepared now to scan passengers when regular train service was launched in the coming days. Ration cards should be issued to migrant workers on a war footing to provide them with food, the chief minister added.He said administration should get bank accounts of workers/labourers activated for the transfer of sustenance allowance. Vigilance and monitoring committees should be strengthened as they could play an important role in resolving domestic and revenue disputes, Adityanath said. He was informed that the chief minister’s helpline has got in touch with 44,000 village pradhans so far. He also said preparations about the next phase of campaign to distribute food grains from June 1, 2020 should be completed at the earliest.He said adequate preventive steps should be taken to protect the police, PAC, fire service and railway police personnel. Work on ear tagging of animals should be expedited and fodder banks should be strengthened, he said. All arrangements for protection of crops from locusts should be made and people should be made aware of such attacks, he said.MINISTERS ASKED TO INSPECT MEDICAL COLLEGESChief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday asked minister for medical education Suresh Khanna and minister for medical and health JP Singh to conduct regular spot inspections at the state government’s medical colleges and hospitals to bring about an improvement in systems and services being provided in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic there.Reviewing the lockdown situation at a high level meeting, Adityanath said the ministers should get feedback about the situation at the ground level. He said state government had expedited steps to strengthen the medical and health services. No Covid hospital should have less than 100 beds, he said.CM INSPECTS EMERGENCY WARDThe chief minister inspected the emergency ward of Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Medical Institute, Lucknow, and interacted with patients and their attendants there. He stressed on team spirit to further strengthen the systems and services there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/absorb-1-10-migrants-in-every-industrial-unit-yogi/story-TkSYqCnrSf86wojcYEeL4H.html
28-05-2020||City||Vendors seek permission to operate inside sabzi mandi in Ludhiana||Members of New Sabzi Mandi Fadi Association submitted a memorandum to deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Agrawal on Wednesday demanding permission to install vends inside the sabzi mandi (main vegetable market) near Jalandhar Bypass.The members asked to install over 1,000 vends as these are the only source of income for most of the vendors and many families have been affected due to the lockdown.Vendors Mohan Lal Sachdeva and Ramesh Bathla said, “All shops and markets are now open after the government announced relaxation, but no one is paying heed to the problems being faced by vendors, whose only source of income has been stopped by the administration. Vends have been allowed in other vegetable markets of the state, but not in Ludhiana, due to which we are facing trouble in catering to our daily needs.”Ruing losses, the arhtiya association has also been demanding that operations should be allowed for six days a week and the vendors should be allowed to operate inside the mandi.A meeting of fruit arhtiyas was also held on Wednesday. A fruit vendor, Kamal Gumber, said, “The vegetable markets in all other districts are open for six days a week, but the Ludhiana mandi is allowed to operate only for three days. Also, no vendor is allowed to operate in the mandi, which is affecting the sales of arhtiyas. We will be meeting DC Agrawal and cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu to find a solution.”On April 3, following the complaints of a huge gathering at the sabzi mandi, the administration had restricted the sale of vegetables and fruits in the mandi to three days -- Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. Only listed suppliers/vendors, who sell vegetables to street vendors in the city’s 95 wards, were issued passes to enter the market. The vendors were also stopped from installing vends.Recently, a committee was formed by DC Agrawal to look into the demand of arhtiyas regarding opening the mandi for six days. The committee led by SDM Amrinder Malhi recommended that the mandi should not be allowed to operate for six days till the time lockdown has been announced in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vendors-seek-permission-to-operate-inside-sabzi-mandi-in-ludhiana/story-TOPIeJ1FvxslSNetfQtqtI.html
28-05-2020||City||Amid labour shortage, Malwa villages reduce land lease rates||With farmers apprehending shortage of labour for paddy sowing, some villages across Malwa have passed resolutions to reduce the lease rate of land that owners charge from farmers. The maximum rate at which land can leased out has been fixed, and it is lower than last year. Farmers operating on lease say that in addition to the labour scenario, they are also worried about procurement of certain varieties of paddy. In the recent past, the Centre has advised Punjab to stop varieties like PUSA-44 to check stubble burning.A farmer claims to have suffered a loss of Rs 30,000 than going ahead with cultivating paddy on leased land. “I had given Rs 30,000 in advance to the land owner in Bimbri village (Sangrur) where I had been farming on 12 acre since 2008. However, when I calculated increased labour rates, I decided not to take the land on lease,” said Gurjant Singh of Nabha’s Dulladdi village.Sukhwinder Singh, sarpanch, Jhaloor village in Barnala, said, “We have passed a resolution that land lease rate will be a maximum of Rs 10,500 per bigha (52,500 per acre) this year. Farmers were reluctant to come forward at Rs 12,000 per bigha (60,000 per acre) due to the high price of labour and uncertainty around government purchase of paddy.”Most villages have now fixed the maximum rate of land for farm lease at between Rs 50,000 and Rs 57,000 per acre. Farmers will have to pay penalties for violation of agreement. In Patiala, Tunga, Kakrala Bhaike, Gaajewas villages, and Gurusar in Bathinda have fixed these rates. In Sangrur, Guara village has fixed the maximum lease at Rs 45,000 per acre for land with lower water accessibility and Rs 50,000 per acre for other pockets. In Delewal (Sangrur) and Shahpur (Patiala) villages, rates were not reduced, but lenders agreed to give up the rent for the area on which the farmer fails to sow paddy. “Short-sighted state government and the Centre failed to provide confidence to migrant labourers and farmers by clarifying uncertainty about paddy procurement of PUSA-44, which is the only variety which gives yield between 30 and 35 quintal per acre. Farmers, however, are engaging with the community and reaching such agreements,” said Harmel Singh Tunga, Nabha president of BKU Ugrahan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-labour-shortage-malwa-villages-reduce-land-lease-rates/story-Lqh73lJi2BQpMZd7n2C2lM.html
28-05-2020||City||Non-functional streetlights in Ludhiana: RTI activist seeks termination of contract||Amid the row over non-functional LED streetlights in different parts of the city, Right to Information (RTI) activist Paramjeet Singh has submitted a complaint with the local bodies department, seeking termination of the contract with Tata company, which is handling the project.Accusing the company officials of ignoring the complaints by residents, Singh stated that the city was left in dark at night due to which cases of theft and snatching were rising.In the complaint filed with the director, local bodies department, on Tuesday, the RTI activist said, “The company has failed to take up the project properly and around 50% lights are lying non-functional.”A copy of the complaint has also been forwarded to municipal corporation (MC) commissioner Kanwalpreet Kaur Brar and mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu. The mayor had already stopped payment of Rs 3 crore to the firm on May 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/non-functional-streetlights-in-ludhiana-rti-activist-seeks-termination-of-contract/story-ppbcxUv4qWik85wayUwmTJ.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC forms panel to suggest ways to resume work||The Punjab and Haryana high court has constituted a seven-member judges’ panel to suggest working modalities and preventive measures to be taken in high court and trial courts of both the states in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak.The panel will be presided over by justice Rajiv Sharma, third senior-most judge in the high court after chief justice RS Jha.The high court is taking up urgent cases only since March through video-conferencing and this month only a dozen-odd benches have been set up. However, a section of lawyers are constantly pressing for resuming physical hearings. The committee will deliberate on how to resume normal functioning and regulate entry in courts. It will further delve into procedure for filing of cases, norms on social distancing, sanitisation and norms with regard to use of common facilities and air conditioning. The committee has been told to hold meeting with various stakeholders and submit report as soon as possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-hc-forms-panel-to-suggest-ways-to-resume-work/story-U1SDLjpdb0FzmbNz1kuKbO.html
28-05-2020||Lucknow||Leopard that fell in deep well rescued in Amroha||A leopard, which fell into a deep well in a village of Amroha district, has been rescued by forest department and Wildlife SOS rapid response unit, Agra. The leopard is under treatment and observation of veterinary doctors at Animal Hospital in Etawah Safari.On Monday morning, the Wildlife SOS team received an emergency call from the forest department about a leopard that had fallen into a deep well. An eight member team from the Wildlife SOS rushed to Amroha in two vehicles to assist the forest department.The forest officers and police personnel cordoned off the area to keep curious onlookers away at a safe distance. Dr S Ilayaraja, deputy director of Wildlife SOS, veterinary division and Dr Pritam, senior veterinarian from the Wildlife SOS, Agra Rescue Center, tranquilised and immobilised the leopard. They then climbed down into the well and safely extricate the leopard out of the well.The leopard was given a medical examination by the veterinary team and then transported to the forest range office in a transport cage. Once the animal recovered from the sedative, it was then shifted to the Animal Hospital in the Etawah Safari for treatment and observation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/leopard-that-fell-in-deep-well-rescued-in-amroha/story-Ixd8ZT4HIkoMhw4sVeRT2O.html
28-05-2020||City||Sale of spurious rice seed: Vigilance probe begins against seed store in Ludhiana||The Vigilance Bureau (VB) has started a probe against the Brar Seed Store, located opposite gate number 1 of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) here, in connection with the alleged sale of spurious seed of PR 128 and 129 varieties of paddy.The decision was taken after SSP, VB, Ludhiana, Rupinder Singh, held a meeting with chief agriculture officer Narinder Singh Benipal at his office here on Wednesday.During the meeting, Rupinder deputed his department officials to investigate the matter thoroughly. He said the seed of these paddy varieties can only be sold by PAU.A number of farmer organisations had been complaining that owners of the store were selling spurious seed of rice to farmers and, that too, at high rates.A farmer had also submitted a written complaint in this regard to the deputy commissioner stating that he was sold PR 128 seed at Rs 200 per kg against Rs 70 per kg sold by PAU.Rupinder also appealed to farmers not to burn wheat straw as it led to breathing problems in people. He said strict action will be taken against any person burning wheat straw.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sale-of-spurious-rice-seed-vigilance-probe-begins-against-brar-seed-store-in-ludhiana/story-PwdITDHnbOcddxlj51HSCK.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||29 fresh infections take Punjab tally to 2,229||AMRITSAR/PATIALA/JALANDHAR Punjab recorded 29 fresh infections on Wednesday, taking the total count in the state to 2,229. Amritsar district topped the list with 16 cases, while seven patients were detected in Patiala district.In Amritsar, of the 16 fresh cases, eight are residents of Vijay Nagar in Batala Road, where a man was found infected on May 25. Three others are contacts of a patient from Rani Ka Bagh. “These are community transmission cases. Now, total Covid-19 cases in the district has reached 353, of which 301 have recovered,” said Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore.Of the seven cases in Patiala, five are the contacts of a 20-year-old pregnant woman from Rajpura who tested positive recently. “Woman patient’s husband, their son and three relatives were found infected from the virus on Wednesday. They have been admitted to the isolation ward of Government Rajindra Hospital,” Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said.A Railway Protection Force (RPF) man was among three Covid-19 patients who tested positive in Jalandhar on Wednesday. Health officials said 27-year-old RPF man was posted at Jalandhar railway station, while two patients, aged 44 and 19, belong to Pathankot district.A 60-year-old man was found positive for Covid-19 in Pathankot. Pathankot deputy commissioner GS khaira said the infected person is a contact of a Lamini locality virus patient. A 43-year-old man was found positive in Gurdaspur district. He had returned from Mumbai to Dorangla village a few days ago. Four days after becoming Covid-19 free, Rupnagar district reported fresh case on Wednesday. A 33-year-old man of Jhajj village in Anandpur Sahib sub-division tested positive for Covid-19. He is a driver and had returned from Delhi on Tuesday.(With inputs from Pathankot, Gurdaspur and Rupnagar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/29-fresh-infections-take-punjab-tally-to-2-229/story-uh1WwXc20LoPMT0VR2jBzI.html
28-05-2020||Lucknow||More dead bats found in Gorakhpur||Hundreds of bats were found dead in a mango orchard in Belghat for the second consecutive day on Wednesday. Besides, dead bats were also recovered from Gola village. The mango orchard was filled with pungent smell of the bat carcasses that were strewn all across and dogs were spotted eating some of the dead bats. The dead winged mammals were later buried by locals. Some locals had also arranged for water pots at the orchard as some officials had suggested that the bats might have been dying out of thirst and heat stroke. “The bats are dying continuously and today hundreds of more bats were found dead .We have informed authorities about it,” Dhruv Narayan, the orchard owner said. Divisional Forest officer (DFO) Avinash Kumar who took stock of the area said, “We were informed today about fresh deaths of bats but the condition of carcasses suggest that the deaths might have happened 24 to 36 hours before. They might have died on trees and dropped on ground later.” The post mortem report of bats is still awaited from Indian Veterinary Institute (IVRI) Bareilly. “The exact cause of deaths can be cleared once the report comes,” he said. “Rare White Nose Syndrome could be possible reason behind the deaths of bats who feed on flower nector, fruits and insects, said Dr PH Pathak, professor, department of zoology at DDU Gorakhpur University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/more-dead-bats-found-in-gorakhpur/story-VfD45g0j723BSIPv7mQP3N.html
28-05-2020||Lucknow||Congress leaders protest: ‘Withdraw false cases, release UPCC chief’||Congress leaders sported black arm bands and observed fast on Wednesday to protest the arrest of UP Congress Committee (UPCC) president, Ajay Kumar Lallu.“The Congress offered 1,000 buses to the state government to bring back migrant labourers, instead of using the buses, the UPCC president was arrested on ‘false charges,” said Brajesh Kumar Singh, spokesman, UPCC, in a press statement.Congress leaders also demanded that ‘fake’ cases registered against the UPCC chief and other partymen be withdrawn immediately, he said.Through social media, Congress leaders of the state raised their voice against the arrests of UPCC president and other partymen, said Singh. The UPCC spokesman said a memorandum addressed to governor Anandiben Patel sought immediate release of Lallu and other party leaders. Singh said party leaders pointed out that Covid-19 had an adverse impact on people and farmers/migrant labourers and workers of small industrial units were the worst hit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/congress-leaders-protest-withdraw-false-cases-release-upcc-chief/story-0oz2fMgIXAgP2uYvdgbzPK.html
28-05-2020||City||260 litres of spurious mustard oil seized in Ludhiana||A team of health department conducted raids at grocery, bakery and sweets shops in Salem Tabri, Jalandhar Bypass and Tajpur Road on Wednesday and seized around 260 litres of spurious mustard oil. The team was led by district health officer Dr Rajesh Garg and food safety officer Yogesh Goyal.Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga said, “In Tajpur area, mustard oil was being filled in bottles with fake brand names of various companies.” Sources said that instead of mustard oil, palm oil was being filled in bottles. He said, “We would continue the campaign against adulterers in future too, so that the health of the people is not compromised.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/raid-at-spurious-mustard-oil-manufacturing-unit-in-ludhiana/story-ZtlgSwRYUMVpBidSPQxv1L.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||No class–no fee: Parents protest outside Mohali school, no response from authorities||Raising slogans of ‘no class–no fee’, parents protested outside St Xavier’s High School in Sector 71, Mohali.Parents had gathered outside the school to get a response to the memorandum submitted by them on May 22, asking the school to revoke the hike in tuition fee, and waiver of development fee for this financial year, to which the school has yet to reply.Even though parents kept protesting, holding aloft posters and banners, for about 45 minutes to meet the principal, but no school authority met them. They even locked the school gate from inside to prevent parents from entering the school building. “We had urged the school to begin online classes, but the management was not keen on it. The school has been issuing only a worksheet on a weekly basis which they upload to the website, without any intimation whatsoever to parents or students. They have not lent any support to resolve issues,” said a parent, Praveen Singh Dadwal.Another parent Raman Arora said, “We are ready to pay the fee provided the school starts online classes. But demanding a hike in tuition fee is not justified during this Covid crisis.”No authority from the school was ready to talk to parents or the media. Sanjay Chauhan, a school employee, who was present on the occasion, said the case regarding paying of fees is pending in Punjab and Haryana high court and the school will follow directives of the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-class-no-fee-parents-protest-outside-mohali-school-no-response-from-authorities/story-EoDSKN3pzGJOVs87zc9xzO.html
28-05-2020||Mumbai||25 resident doctors rescued from fire in Dobhi Talao hotel||A hotel in Dhobi Talao which was being used to house resident doctors caught fire late on Wednesday night. A level two fire broke out at Hotel Fortune that was housing around 25 resident doctors. No injuries were reported due to the incident, and all the doctors were rescued safely, the Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) said.According to MFB, the fire was reported on the second and fourth floor of the ground-plus-four-storey hotel building. On reaching the spot, firefighters learnt that a few guests were stranded on the upper floors of the building.The fire later spread to the other floors and was confined to the electric wiring and cables in the electrical duct, the false ceiling in the lobby, and common passages of the hotel building.P Rahangdale, chief fire officer of MFB, said, “The hotel was housing around 25 resident doctors. They have all been evacuated safely. Five were rescued using fire brigade ladders. The headcount is ongoing to ascertain if anyone is missing and fire-fighting is still on.”At present, doctors working in Covid wards are being given accommodation at hotels in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/25-resident-doctors-rescued-from-fire-in-dobhi-talao-hotel/story-IepeR9arz5VkVYuNUHeWTN.html
28-05-2020||City||Ludhiana’s Arya College organises webinar on tools of e-learning||A webinar on tools of e-learning was organised at Arya College, Ludhiana, by its internal quality assessment cell (IQAC) on Wednesday. In her inaugural address, principal Savita Uppal assured the students and their parents that the college will continue to impart education through new tools in addition to the traditional classroom teaching. Coordinator Suksham Ahluwalia highlighted the need to adopt online teaching-learning techniques amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Other speakers included Kumud Chawla, who spoke on Swayam, and Mamta Ratra, who gave a presentation on online encyclopaedias. Rama Bansal and Sonia Uppal talked about digital library and e-pathshala, respectively. The coordinator rounded off the session with a brief outline of the e-learning channel run by the college on YouTube.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-s-arya-college-organises-webinar-on-tools-of-e-learning/story-NZ8JxXifiYPezKvy5hsB6L.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Carpenter misses train home, now daunted by expenses of newborn in Chandigarh||While waiting in the scorching heat for hours to catch the Shramik special train to Uttar Pradesh, 25-year-old Garima developed labour pains minutes before boarding the train. She was rushed to Manimajra Civil Hospital and within minutes she delivered a baby boy.Sitting outside the gynaecology ward, her husband Pawan, 28, and their 3-year-old son wait earnestly to hold the newborn in their arms. A carpenter by profession, Pawan, from Maalipur village in UP’s Sultanpur district, came to Chandigarh in 2008 seeking a livelihood. The family of three live in a room in Vikas Nagar on rent at ₹2,000. However, the lockdown left him with no work.March 24 being his last working day, he had only ₹11,500 on him for the next three months. “I managed for two months, but had to spent ₹1,500 to transport my wife to the hospital. Then in May, I borrowed a sum of ₹7,000,” he said.When Pawan was left with about ₹1,000, he decided to leave the city. “Although, my wife was due to deliver this month, we took the risk of taking the train home,” he said.On Wednesday at 8 am, the family reached Sector 26, from where they were ferried by bus with other labourers to the railway station. Garima, who was ignoring the pain since morning, found it unbearable by the time they reached the station.Sub inspector Urmila Rao with Government Railway Police (GRP) who was at the railway station said: “When she developed pains, I called the ambulance which arrived in 10-15 minutes and rushed her to the hospital.”Dr Sarita, head of Gynaecology department, Manimajra Civil Hospital, said the woman reached around 12 noon in the second stage of labour. “Within 10-15 minutes of her arrival, she delivered the baby. Both mother and child are safe,” she said.Sitting outside the ward, Pawan said he had been hoping for a baby girl but is happy that mother and child are healthy. Now, with less than ₹2,000 in his pocket, he said, “We will leave for my hometown this week, but as of now I have to meet other expenses such as diapers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/carpenter-misses-train-home-now-daunted-by-expenses-of-newborn-in-chandigarh/story-s4JcF1DMrGjCCzTpKpix9O.html
28-05-2020||Lucknow||UP: Home quarantine guideline brings worries for medical staff||Medical teams attending to Covid-19 patients will now go for home quarantine, instead of facility (hotel) quarantine, after 14 days of duty. But the arrangement has brought worries for the medics who believe that this may put their family members at risk of infection.The state health department had recently issued an order with regard to the new guidelines for quarantine of medical staff.“Going straight home after 14 days of continuous duty means taking infection, if any, back home,” said Pradip Gangwar, president, KGMU employees’ association.“Not all medical workers have big houses and separate rooms for themselves (for home quarantine). Many have elderly and children living with them, who are more vulnerable to contracting infection,” said Seema Shukla, president of the Nursing Staff Association at the PGI, said.On Wednesday, the KGMU had sent its batch of medical staff to hotel quarantine, but the batch working now may have to go home after 14 days of duty. “The university shall adopt new guidelines in a day or two,” said Dr JD Rawat, member of the quarantine committee and senior faculty at KGMU.Different associations have approached institute heads and demanded that the hotel/facility quarantine should continue. “At least seven days of facility quarantine should be allowed, as by then, symptoms, if any, will be clear,” said Amita Srivastava, nursing staff at KGMU who has completed Covid-19 duty and facility quarantine.At the KGMU, about 80 staff members, including doctors, nurses and paramedical staff, are working in the Covid ward that has asymptomatic patients and also those in serious condition or on ventilator support. “At the SGPGI, at least 20 staff members are on Covid duty. The strength reduces with less patients and increases with more,” said Shukla.Similarly, the Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences has 20 staff on Covid-19 duty at any given time. “Many medics live in a one or two room set. In such a situation, some alternatives will have to be worked out,” said Prof AK Tripathi, director of Lohia institute.“The PGI administration has been apprised of the issue. It is a problem for all medical institutes in the state and hence needs attention. Otherwise new hotspots might come up,” added Seema Shukla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-home-quarantine-guideline-brings-worries-for-medical-staff/story-GxZfEVaGJVw2TMhqQeJVGN.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Parents protest against collection of school fees in Chandigarh||Parents protested outside Shishu Niketan Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 22D, on Wednesday, against collection of fees despite classes being suspended amid the Covid-19 lockdown . At least five other schools have witnessed similar protests in the past one week.The parents said their economic condition is constantly deteriorating and they cannot afford to pay fees due to loss of jobs. Nitin Goyal, president of the Chandigarh Parents’ Association, said, “The protesting parents had a meeting with the school officials. They demanded waiver of fees till the school is reopened. However, the management didn’t agree.”School principal Amita Khuranna said, “The education department said we are supposed to charge fees. Only a handful of parents turned up for the protest today.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/parents-protest-against-collection-of-school-fees-in-chandigarh/story-WcVHR7Ka3NCi23njH39HxI.html
28-05-2020||City||Two drug peddlers arrested with 1.2kg opium in Ludhiana||A Crime Investigation Agency (CIA) team of Jagraon on Wednesday arrested two drug peddlers after recovering 1.2kg opium from their possession.The accused have been identified as Vishal Singh, alias Vicky of Mughalpura, and Deepak Kumar, alias Deepu of Model Town, Hoshiarpur.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Vivek Sheel Soni said on the basis of a tip-off, a team of CIA Jagraon installed a checkpoint near Chaukiman police post and stopped a pick-up truck. During checking, the team found opium hidden in a black olybag, he said.WERE ON WAY TO SUPPLY DRUGS TO CUSTOMERSThe SSP said, “The accused are regular offenders and supply opium from different states to various cities of Punjab. Before their arrest, they were on their way to supply the drugs to their customers in Jagraon and Moga.”The accused are being questioned and a case has been registered under Sections 18/25/61 and 85 of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act at the Sadar Jagraon police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-drug-peddlers-arrested-with-1-2kg-opium-in-ludhiana/story-pdJWvXxwdkB08GR51oiXUJ.html
28-05-2020||Lucknow||Modi 2.0, year one: BJP to hold six virtual rallies in UP||To mark one year of Modi 2.0, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has planned six virtual rallies in Uttar Pradesh that it hopes to launch from May 30.The party has divided the state in six regions and a virtual rally is expected to be held in each of them.The UP government has banned public gatherings in the state till June 30 to check the spread of coronavirus and the virtual rallies, in which the party leaders would address masses through video conferencing and on social media and other ways, is seen as a strategy by the party to connect with the masses. These rallies would be backed up by a mass digital contact campaign for which the party would set up Whatsapp groups having prominent people of the state through whom it would spread Modi government’s achievements, its handling of Covid-19 crisis in particular, among the masses, party leaders said after a meeting held through video conferencing at the UP BJP office on Wednesday.UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh and state general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal said the party would carry out its outreach campaign while following the lockdown restrictions and social distancing protocols.BJP chief JP Nadda would also address cadres on Facebook. The party cadres would also distribute face covers and sanitisers as part of the campaign. “From striking down triple talaq, ending article 370 in Kashmir, helping carve a separate identity for Ladakh and the end to years of wait for construction of Ram temple, the beginning of Modi’s 2.0 is full of achievements,” the BJP leaders said.The BJP’s various frontal organisations and wings like its Muslim wing, women’s wing, SC/ST and OBC wings would also connect with the cadres and masses through video conferencing even as party’s booth level cadres would distribute Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s letter to the people. “Barring hotspots and containment zones, party cadres would also visit homes, but care would be taken to maintain social distancing and cadres wearing masks,” said UP BJP leader Manish Dixit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/modi-2-0-year-one-bjp-to-hold-six-virtual-rallies-in-up/story-vGixPVY81YsZ5dFbI0eN1K.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University syndicate to decide on action to be taken against employees found negligent during 2016 municipal election||The Panjab University syndicate will take a call on disciplinary action to be taken against three employees of the varsity who were found negligent of duties when they were deputed on election duty during the 2016 municipal election.The three employees were deputed as polling officers at a station in Maloya Colony, Chandigarh.According to a letter by state election commission, UT Chandigarh, to the university in 2017, there were irregularities in the conduct of election at the polling booth where these employees were deputed, due to which re-polling was conducted.According to the commission’s report, there were 986 votes in the working copy of the electoral roll out, of which the names of 395 voters stood deleted. As many as 685 voters were to cast their vote. However, 703 votes were cast.The commission directed PU to take disciplinary action against the three employees. The matter was later taken up in a syndicate meeting on November 2018, but no decision was taken.In October 2019, the syndicate said a regular enquiry will be conducted against the officials, following which a memorandum was issued to them with the statement of allegations.However, the employees said the state election commission has already conducted a fact finding enquiry according to which there was lack of monitoring and managerial skills on part of returning officers and assistant returning officer.The matter was referred to a sub-committee constituted by the V-C which in their January 23, 2020, meeting recommended that the matter, along with replies of the officials of the university and copy of the fact finding report of the state election commission be referred to the syndicate for consideration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-syndicate-to-decide-on-action-to-be-taken-against-employees-found-negligent-during-2016-municipal-election/story-A04FyC7ZshuSDnubXcAUnO.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Amid rising mercury, rain, winds bring relief in Chandigarh||Western disturbances brought relief to Chandigarh on Wednesday after the scorching sun kept the heat on in the previous few days.Even as maximum temperature was recorded at 42.9°C, just marginally lower than that the previous day, rain along with winds blowing at speeds up to 25km/hour brought some respite in the evening. At 29.8°C, the temperature recorded at 8:30pm was much lower than that recorded at the same time on Tuesday (36°C). The India Meteorological Department (IMD), which recorded 0.5mm till 8:30pm, has predicted more relief in form of light showers till the end of the week.According to IMD officials, light rain up to 20mm along with gusty winds blowing at speeds up to 40km/hour and thunder and lightning will be witnessed. “Maximum temperature will fall back into the 30s, and if it rains during the day, it can fall as low as 30°C,” said the weatherman.Maximum temperature went down from 43.1°C on Tuesday to 42.9°C on Wednesday, four degrees above normal and the season’s second highest. Minimum temperature went up from 25.2°C to 25.7°C, a notch above normal. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 31 and 39 degrees while minimum will stay between 26 and 27 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amid-rising-mercury-rain-winds-bring-relief-in-chandigarh/story-itM14zHOJhn21L3jVjKxbN.html
28-05-2020||Mumbai||SSC Geography score will be the average of marks of five papers||Students who have appeared for their SSC (Class 10) examinations this year will be awarded an average of the marks obtained in the other five subjects for the last paper, Geography, which was cancelled owing to the Covid-19 outbreak, said board officials. The Geography paper was earlier scheduled to take place on March 23. While there is no clarity about when the board will declare results of SSC and HSC exams, an official from the education department said they are likely to be declared by the second week of June“The committee constituted to take a decision has decided to award average scores to students for the Geography paper. Marks will be calculated on the basis of the remaining five papers,” said Shakuntala Kale, chairperson of the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education. In a statement released on Wednesday, the board also announced that marks for work-experience papers for Children with Special Needs, which were also cancelled, will be given as per the average calculated from their remaining papers. The board will consider marks of written exams only when calculating average scores for the cancelled paper. Of the total 600 marks, 480 marks are for written exams and 120 for internal assessments. With the cancellation of 40 marks for Geography, the written total will now be 440. Experts hailed the board’s decision and said that it was a practical step. “The situation is unprecedented. There was no way to reschedule the exam and giving average marks thus seems like the most logical step. In such cases, the board has to ensure that no student loses out due to its decision and thus this seems like a good move,” said Basanti Roy, former secretary of the Mumbai divisional board. “It is a good move to consider the marks of only written exams. Most students score well in internals and if an overall average is taken, it might inflate scores of the paper, which was cancelled,” said Jagdish Indalkar, principal, KVK School, Ghatkopar. Anya Shelar, a parent, said that the board should have given its decision earlier. “If the decision was so simple, it should have been announced earlier. Students had to deal with the additional stress. But we are happy that the board has finally announced it and are now hoping to get the results soon,” she added. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ssc-geography-score-will-be-the-average-of-marks-of-five-papers/story-NtA2zQUpaXmr2VltgkZxGL.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Three of 6 affected zones in Chandigarh lose containment tag||Reaching a major milestone in the fight against coronavirus disease in Chandigarh, the UT administration on Wednesday decided to remove the containment tag from three of the six zones.UT administrator VPS Badnore approved the end of containment operations in Sector 38 from May 27, Sector 52 from May 28 and Shastri Nagar in Manimajra from May 31.A committee comprising municipal commissioner, district magistrate, senior superintendent of police, director health services, sub-divisional magistrate (east), state surveillance officer and superintendent of police recommended the de-containment of the three areas.COMPLETED 28-DAY CONDITIONAs per the central government’s guidelines, a containment zone can be denotified only if no new case of Covid-19 is reported in the locality for 28 days.The last positive Covid-19 case in Sector 38 was on April 29, and no new case has been reported in Sector 52 since April 30. At Shastri Nagar, Manimajra, the last infection was reported on May 2.Sector 38 completed the 28-day period on May 26, Sector 52 on May 27 and Shashtri Nagar will complete it on May 31. There are no active cases in any of these localities.All the six containment zones combined have 242 cases. Sector 38 and Sector 52 had reported three positive cases each, and Shastri Nagar had one. ALL RELAXATIONS TO BE INTRODUCEDBeing containment zones, these localities were completely sealed, and no movement was allowed inside and from inside to outside except for essential and emergency services.All relaxations announced in the city from time to time, which were earlier not allowed in these zones, will be allowed now. In fact, barricades were removed from Sector 38 on Wednesday.However, screening, surveillance and strict monitoring of the health of residents will continue in the three zones. Further, regular sanitisation measures will be undertaken by municipal authorities.Random samples of fresh suspect cases, if any, will be taken and reported to the administration. Social gathering in the area will continue to remain restricted as per the guidelines issued by the Government of India, and necessary social distancing, mask wearing and hygiene will be strictly enforced.UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida said: “We are thankful to the residents for following social distance norms and due hygiene so that there was no positive case in last 28 days. If other pockets also do the same , Chandigarh will be corona-free soon.”Hari Prakash, a resident of the containment zone in Sector 52, said: “We are relieved that it is finally over. We can now save our jobs, and move around freely, but we are fearful of the social stigma as we move out. There was severe mental harassment for the past month.”RELIEF FOR 1,600 PEOPLEAmong the denotified zones, Sector 52 has 46 houses with 250 peopleShastri Nagar in Manimajra had eight houses in the containment zone with 160 peopleEWS Colony in Sector 38 had the maximum affected population of 1,200 residing in 250 housesTHREE CONTAINMENT ZONES LEFTBapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, with 209 positive cases continues to be the epicentre of the disease in the city, accounting for 74% of the total cases and 98% of the activeParts of Sector 30 with 22 cases and Kacchi Colony, Dhanas, with four positive cases will remain containment zonesNo positive case has been reported in Kacchi Colony since May 5 and in Sector 30B since May 7||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-of-6-affected-zones-in-chandigarh-lose-containment-tag/story-wKh8hRj9LdshdtxhEztZfJ.html
28-05-2020||Mumbai||26/11 hero who was rescued from Mumbai footpath dies||Days after being rescued from a footpath in Chinchpokli, Harishchandra Shrivardhankar, 60, a key witness who had identified terrorist Ajmal Kasab during the 26/11 terror attacks trial, died at his home in Kalyan’s Yogidham area on Tuesday around 8.30pm. Shrivardhankar, a then government employee, had braved two bullets on his back and according to an HT report in 2010, was one of the main witnesses who deposed before the special court. Shrivardhankar was injured in the firing by Kasab and his accomplice, Abu Ismail, outside Cama and Albless Hospital. He had even got into a scuffle with Ismail and had hit him with his office bag.HT had reported on May 5 how Shrivardhankar, who was found lying helpless on the footpath near a shop at Saat Rasta on April 29, and was reunited with his family by the store owner, Dean D’Souza, and his friends on May 1. He had been missing for two months and his family had filed a missing person’s complaint. D’Souza had said, “I had found him lying in a bad condition near my shop. When I approached him, he couldn’t talk and was just mumbling a few words. Even if we gave him food, he would not eat it.” “After a lot of effort, D’Souza found his [Shrivardhankar’s] brother, who lives in Mahalaxmi. He gave us further details about his son, who stays in Kalyan,” Timothy Gaikwad, a school friend of D’Souza and who runs an organisation, IMCares, which helps the destitute, had said.In Kalyan, Shrivardhankar was taken to a private hospital for treatment by local corporator Daya Gaikwad. Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had checked on his medical condition at a private hospital in Kalyan and also announced on May 12 that the BJP would provide ₹10 lakh to his family.He is survived by his wife, two sons and daughters- in-law. “He will be always remembered for his bravery,” said Daya Gaikwad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/26-11-hero-who-was-rescued-from-footpath-dies/story-QW7uB0o2DAzSHhxLJdmdcP.html
28-05-2020||City||After 48-hour wait, only 456 board Kerala train||After waiting for more than 48 hours, only 456 people boarded a train to Kerala on Tuesday night. A total of the 1,200 passengers were initially scheduled to board the Shramik special train was supposed to leave Thane for Ernakulam on Sunday evening but was cancelled a few hours before the scheduled departure, leaving passengers stranded.“The train, which was scheduled to depart for Kerala on Sunday, had to be cancelled after a request from the Kerala government,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, Central Railway, Mumbai. The tired and confused passengers who had already reached Thane station on Sunday evening stay put in the area and on platforms.“We had vacated our rented flat, hoping to get into the train on Sunday. We had spent a huge amount to find accommodation near Thane station. We managed to get our names listed in the Shramik train leaving Thane on Tuesday,” said Rajesh Shankaran, 34, resident of Ambernath.The train to Kerala was the first scheduled service from Thane after one train departed from Lokmanya Tilak Terminus at Kurla, Mumbai. When passengers boarded the train after a long wait, they found the coaches dirty and that the train had only seater coaches for the over 24-hour journey. “There were no sleeper coaches. After waiting for around six hours at Thane station on Tuesday, we boarded a train that had no sleeper coaches and was very dirty. But, we were happy that we are about to reach our hometown after a long struggle,” said Byma Vasanth, 45, a resident of Thane.The Central Railway claimed that the train had been cleaned before departure.“We checked with the station manager, who said coaches were cleaned before departure. There were few passengers so seater coaches will help maintain social distancing and also ensure the comfort of passengers,” said AK Jain, senior public relations officer Central Railway, Mumbai.Shashikumar Nair, general secretary, All Thane Malayalee Association, who was coordinating between the passengers and the railways, said that the Kerala government permitted only 456 people to be sent. “As we only got permission for 456 people, we had to choose those who had to reach their hometown. The passengers were mostly those who lived near the station,” said Nair.“The train, which was scheduled to depart around 6pm on Tuesday, left at 11.30pm. The passengers from Thane, Vasai, Andheri, and Navi Mumbai had reached the station at least four hours before the scheduled time to complete the formalities such as medical test and verification,” he said.On Wednesday, a Shramik special train with 1,700 passengers left Kalyan for Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-48-hour-wait-only-456-board-kerala-train/story-OTughqv5PNPwVOFcOwolaP.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Two Ropar men held with 24kg poppy husk in Mohali||Two men were held with 24kg poppy husk in Kharar. The accused have been identified as Avtar Singh, 35, and Harjinder Singh alias Mangal, 45, of Ropar. Police recovered 24kg poppy husk and impounded the truck they were driving. The accused were arrested at a naka near Cambridge School, Gharuan. They had brought the poppy husk from Rajasthan, police said.The accused were produced before court and sent to four-day police remand. A case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances(NDPS) Act was registered in the Kharar (Sadar) police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-ropar-men-held-with-24kg-poppy-husk-in-mohali/story-ksdEntkHnq4jAV9lEjyREM.html
28-05-2020||Mumbai||Governments pass the buck, migrants suffer||Migrants waiting to reach home had to bear the brunt of the blame game between the state and Central governments over arrangements for Shramik trains. While thousands of migrant workers waited outside various railway stations starting from Tuesday evening in the hope for trains, the ones who managed to board stayed without food or water.Railways minister Piyush Goyal lashed out at the state on Tuesday, accusing the Maharashtra government of not being able to run trains for lack of administrative arrangement, despite the state notifying 147 trains. He said the state had failed to help the migrants reach the stations and provide actual lists of their names.Minorities development minister Nawab Malik on Wednesday retorted saying: “They had notified 49 trains for Lokmanya Tilak Terminus, while the divisional railway manager told us that they cannot run more than 16 trains in a day. We had mobilised thousands of migrants at LTT. Thirty-five trains were released after we forced the railway administration in Mumbai. The minister is just blaming us to defame us, but he should first take reports from his regional offices.”The migrant workers along with their families in the city were seen waiting in queues outside the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT), Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT), Vasai and Thane railway stations on Tuesday after the Railways announced operation of 145 Shramik trains . The Railways, however, operated close to 53 trains by midnight, citing fewer passenger arrivals.Migrants who were stranded outside railway stations in the city took to social media to complain. “@PiyushGoyal respected sir. I am stranded in Mumbai, Vasai. Yesterday the administration called us for a train. Today we went to their station and now the official told us that there were no trains. This is the second time they did it to us,” tweeted @Nandini16878608.The workers who managed to board the Shramik trains also stated that no food or water was provided to them. “We boarded the train from LTT station on Tuesday night and are going towards Azamgarh railway station. No food or water provided to us. We are a family of 12. I tweeted about the non-availability of water. At Itarsi railway station on Wednesday afternoon, khichdi and water bottles were given to us. However after that no food or water was provided. We have now reached Jhansi,” said Rajkamal who worked as a computer engineer in Kurla. “We were ready to operate 145 trains and had the trains planned. There was a delay in passenger arrival to railway stations which resulted in crowding outside railway stations. Trains were operated late night on Tuesday to accommodate passengers,” said a railway official who did not want to be named. On Wednesday, the Railways, including Central, Western, Konkan and South Central railway divisions, operated 40 Shramik trains from Maharashtra. The trains were operated to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Orissa, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Uttarakhand and Kerala. Transport minister and Shiv Sena leader Anil Parab said the state government had demanded 178 trains over the period of next one week, but it doesn’t mean the railways should send them all on a single day. Home minister Anil Deshmukh alleged on Tuesday night that the ministry sent 34 Shramik trains to Maharashtra to ferry migrants to West Bengal, despite the West Bengal government requesting not to do so till May 26 in the wake of Cyclone Amphan. “WB chief secretary Rajiv Sinha had written such a letter to the Rail Ministry on May 22, despite which 34 trains were sent to Maharashtra. Now, Goyal is blaming Maharashtra for not departing the railways notified to originate from our state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/governments-pass-the-buck-migrants-suffer/story-ebwXyZviXhR48NCXHsdAeM.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Staffer held for ₹14 lakh theft at electronics store in Chandigarh||An employee of the Croma Store in Sector 22C was arrested for stealing ₹14.1 lakh from the locker of the electronics showroom on Monday night.The accused, Mandeep Singh, 32, who hails from Babiyal village in Haryana’s Ambala district, had to pay loan instalments that he had taken from a bank, police said.The accused was aware that the store’s cash box had the earnings of about four days in it and he first stole the digital video recorder box of the CCTVs in the shop to ensure no evidence was left, police said.However, the accused was identified with the help of the CCTV footages from the neighbouring shops, police said.Police said the accused entered from the main shutter side. All the employees were questioned before the accused confessed. The police tracked and returned around Rs 14 lakh. On the basis of store manager Rajvinder Singh’s complaint on Tuesday, a case under Section 380 (theft in dwelling house) and Section 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at the Sector 17 police station. The accused was arrested and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/staffer-held-for-14-lakh-theft-at-electronics-store-in-chandigarh/story-cGOrAss7aV0RpCDyytubGL.html
28-05-2020||Gurugram||2 BSF personnel test positive for Covid-19 in Gurugram||Two Border Security Force (BSF) personnel were found infected with coronavirus in Gurugram on Wednesday.Gurugram civil surgeon Dr J.S. Punia confirmed the cases. The BSF personnel were deployed in a camp located in Bhondsi village. They were infected after contact with high risk patients. Earlier, 16 police personnel deployed in Gurugram were also admitted in different hospitals after they were found positive.Apart from BSF personnel, 18 more cases were detected in the city including 8 in highly vulnerable Rajendra Park locality. Besides, 2 cases each were reported in Dundehera and Sarhaul villages and one case each in Khandsa, Acharyapuri, Ashok Vihar, Jyoti Park, Chakkarpur, and Sector 14.The situation is alarming here with 53 cases appearing in just 2 days. Some of the places like Sarhaul, Dundehera, Rajendra Park, Khandsa, Hari Nagar are turning out to be hot spots of the infection in the district which has 337 cases so far.Among them, Punia said that 144 cases are still active and admitted in different hospitals while reports of 200 cases are still awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/2-bsf-personnel-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-gurugram/story-OAVTsn03g04XFHrriy0P3O.html
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University teacher’s body asks for hostels being used as Covid care centres to be vacated||Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) wrote to vice-chancellor Raj Kumar on Wednesday, asking him to approach the Chandigarh administration to get hostels in the campus being used as Covid care centres vacated.PUTA alleges grave lapses in arrangements made by the UT administration to accommodate suspected Covid-19 patients at the hostels. The administration had directed PU to handover four of its hostels to them to be used as quarantine facilities.In the letter, the teachers’ body said more than 100 people from Bapu Dham Colony (which has contributed to 74% Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh), including three positive patients, were shifted to girls’ hostel number 8 on Monday.They said the patients were removed from the hostel on Tuesday morning. The letter stated that the safety and well-being of university staffers, mainly daily wagers working in hostel number 8, is at stake due to the unchecked movement of quarantined persons.“At this point, even a single error on the administration’s part can prove disastrous, not only for those living or working on campus, but for the survival of the university itself. As per the administration, these hostels were to be used as the last resort for quarantining purposes only. However, before exhausting other quarantine facilities, a large number of suspected patients were shifted to the hostel,” the letter states.STUDENTS RAISE CONCERNMeanwhile, students have also raised concerns regarding the issue. On Tuesday, Nikhil Narmeta, president of PU’s National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) wrote to the V-C seeking his intervention. He said the administration has shifted people from Bapu Dham colony to girl’s hostel number 8 and some of them were found Covid-19 positive. Now, since all of them are staying at same place, there are chances of the infection spreading.The Panjab University Non Teaching Employees Federation also sought an enquiry be marked into the incident and stern action to be taken against erring officers which has put lives of innocent residents in danger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-teacher-s-body-asks-for-hostels-being-used-as-covid-care-centres-to-be-vacated/story-k4fiJQ1zBKoH2hhmGILcxI.html
28-05-2020||City||Taloja MIDC fears labour shortage after industries open||Even as industries at Taloja Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) in Panvel are looking forward to a government announcement of resuming operations, they fear they will not have enough workers.The Taloja MIDC has around 3 lakh workers, among which, 2.5 lakh are migrants. With many migrant workers leaving the city, the Taloja Industries Association (TIA) said that they would be the worst-affected once they start operations.Satish Shetty, president of TIA, said, “There are 974 industries at Taloja, among them, only 169 which are into essential services are operational. We have been unable to stop migrant employees from leaving city. Since there was no clarity on when the industries would start and food and job security, migrant workers went to their home towns.”Shetty said labourers are paid in cash but they haven’t got salaries since March. “Most owners of the industries live out of Navi Mumbai and they didn’t get an e-pass to come and meet the labourers and convince them to stay,” said Shetty.Taloja industries have a turnover of around Rs60,000 crore a year. The association said they would encourage locals to join after industries open but there will still be a shortfall. It has contacted a few labour contractors.The association has kept its office open all days except Sundays and are in constant touch with those who have decided to stay back.Subodh Prasad, 40, from Ballia in Uttar Pradesh, an employee in a company at Taloja, is doing the rounds of the registration centre for the train journey.“I live with four others in a rented home at Taloja village. We waited for a month and even our employer did not know when industrial activity would start. We are running out of money and food so we have no option but to leave the city,” said Prasad.Mahesh Lala, 32, worked in a chemical unit at Taloja. He will leave for his home in Purnia, Bihar, in the next train.“I don’t know if I will come back. We have nothing left. The house owner asked us to vacate the house if we can’t pay rent,” said Lala, who lives at Taloja village with his wife and three-year-old son.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/taloja-midc-fears-labour-shortage-after-industries-open/story-SHLIA4tbwXrISlmKw1SaCP.html
28-05-2020||Mumbai||Maha cities see rise in ozone levels during lockdown: Nat’l Clean Air Programme tracker||Despite the decline in traffic pollution during the lockdown imposed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, 10 cities in Maharashtra are reporting an increase in urban ground-level ozone, a harmful pollutant, according to a recent study.The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), comprising Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, and Kalyan, witnessed a 24.8% spike in urban ozone during the first three phases of the lockdown over two months (March 24 to May 24), according to an analysis released as part of the National Clean Air Program (NCAP) tracker on Tuesday by Mumbai-based air quality research group Respirer Living Sciences (RLS) and Delhi-based communications initiative, Climate Trends.The 10 cities in the state with increase in ground-level ozone are Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Thane, Kalyan, Chandrapur, Aurangabad, Nagpur, Nashik, Pune and Solapur. The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) confirmed the findings were accurate.Surface ozone (O3) is a photochemical oxidant, which is formed when volatile organic compounds and oxides of nitrogen (NOx) chemically react in the presence of heat and sunlight. Ground-level ozone is harmful to humans as it can aggravate asthma, cardiovascular diseases, and other ailments.The latest study found a 10.3% rise in ozone across 10 Indian cities during the first two months of the lockdown. Among monitoring locations across the state, Khadakpada in Kalyan has shown the highest average ozone levels at 70 micrograms per cubic metre (μg/m³) against the safe limit of 80μg/m³ (for 24 hours), followed by the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation’s Khutala station in Chandrapur at 64μg/m³. While the concentration ranged between 23-37μg/m³ for MMR, a 50% increase in average O3 levels was witnessed when compared to 2019. Comparatively, a 50% reduction for Mumbai and 58% for Thane was witnessed for nitrogen dioxide (NO2) levels. NO2 is a result of burning of coal and vehicular exhaust.“The analysis indicates that when NO2 levels remain low, surface ozone is higher as photochemical production can become more efficient during summer months,” said Ronak Sutaria, founder and director, RLS. “Breathing air with high ozone poses a risk for people with asthma and other lung ailments, especially for children, older adults, and those active outdoors such as daily wage workers.”MPCB said it was investigating the spike in the pollutant by comparing different station readings. “Based on our preliminary data collection, ozone is going up across Maharashtra cities,” said SC Kollur, chief scientist, MPCB. “It may be a secondary pollutant arising from the reduction of other major pollutants. Industrial areas do witness such spikes but the increase for major cities comes as a surprise. We have to analyse the source.” For Mumbai, MPCB plans on studying background data from the Borivli station to check reasons for an increase in ozone. “The station data has been unavailable for a week due to a broken cable. The data is crucial as it gives background data, and human-induced emissions are not present,” said Kollur. All 10 Maharashtra cities are part of the NCAP, where the Centre seeks to reduce pollutant concentrations by 20-30% by 2024 with the target pollutant as particulate matter (PM2.5 and PM10). Data was compiled from state pollution control board monitoring stations over two months. The tracker is a web portal that monitors the achievement of state-specific air quality targets for 122 Indian cities, and whether funds released for each city are being appropriately utilised.“The rise in ozone comes as an alert at a time when cities are already facing a health crisis. The findings should equip policy-making and encourage more studies to identify the impact of other pollutants apart from PM,” said Aarti Khosla, director, Climate Trends.A recent study by the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi (IIT-Delhi), and two Chinese universities also showed a 20% rise in ozone for western parts of India. The study suggested that secondary pollutants such as ozone need to be considered by NCAP. “China witnessed a similar rising trend for ozone and adopted measures to reduce the pollutant. India is already showing an indication of higher O3 when other pollutants reduce. During summer months, the Centre should consider precursors to ozone for non-attainment cities and in addition to PM, O3 has to be kept in mind while preparing action plans,” said Sri Harsha Kota, professor, IIT-Delhi.NCAP apex committee and professor, Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, SN Tripathi said, “Ozone has not been a problem in India over the years, barring occasional spikes, which are regularly observed across cities abroad. An increase has been observed during lockdown due to its function as a precursor to declining NOx concentration but has remained below the safe limit. Ozone should be considered by NCAP as a secondary pollutant. Studies show PM followed by ozone contributes to 85-90% human-related adverse health impacts. The current data is giving us the opportunity to understand the O3 mitigation strategy.”The NCAP database also calculated average pollutant levels across 10 Indian cities over two months. PM2.5 was 31.5 μg/m³ showing 33.5% decline from 2019; 71.5 μg/m³ for PM10 (35.7% decline), and 15.4 μg/m³ for NO2 (52.6% decline from last year).NCAP DASHBOARD SHOWS LAPSE IN MONITORING DATAThe NCAP dashboard for 10 Indian cities highlighted the offline functioning of monitors leading to data gaps. The air quality monitors in Mumbai have shown substantially lower uptime (data provided in a given period) during the lockdown period of March 24 to May 24, with Bandra working only for 56% of the time, Borivli at 26% capacity, Colaba at 52%, and the international airport monitor at 69%. Air quality monitors in Worli, Powai, Vile Parle, and Kurla have all given over 95% uptime, indicating reliable data. “Maintenance of air quality monitoring is essential to understand the long-term impact of city-level air pollution trends. Of particular concern is the long-running monitoring done in Bandra which has shown as 42% fall in data provided during the lockdown as compared to the same period in 2019,” said Sutaria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-cities-see-rise-in-ozone-levels-during-lockdown-nat-l-clean-air-programme/story-w2vQpPvZJsKZHVDl2LaREO.html
28-05-2020||City||No new case of coronavirus in Ludhiana||A day after a 50-year-old security staff of Air India tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19), no new case was reported in the district on Wednesday.On the other hand, 90 samples of inmates lodged in Borstal Jail and eight samples of pregnant women were sent for testing during the day, said Dr Amita Jain, senior medical officer (SMO) of the Mother and Child Hospital located behind Vardhman Woollen Mill, Chandigarh Road. She said 13 more Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel were discharged from the hospital during the day. “On Tuesday, 32 RPF personnel were discharged from the hospital and so far, a total of 45 RPF jawans have been discharged,” she said.Deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Agrawal said a total of 6,290 samples had been taken out of which the reports of 6,079 have been received. Of them, the reports of 5,811 samples are negative, while the reports of 211 samples are pending. “Presently, the total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 181, while 87 are from other districts/states,” he said, adding that seven people from Ludhiana and five from other districts had succumbed to the virus. The DC also said that till date, 6,401 persons have been kept under home quarantine in the district and presently, the number of such people is 1,914. Of them, 86 were sent to home quarantine on Wednesday. DC Agrawal also said, “Similarly, 147 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing on Wednesday and their results are expected shortly.”ICMR TEAM COLLECTS 200 SAMPLESMeanwhile, a team of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) visited various areas of the district on Tuesday and took random blood samples to check residents’ immunity against coronavirus.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga said, “The team visited Bajra, Khaira, Giaspura, Janta Nagar and Raju Colony, and took 200 blood samples for testing.” The civil surgeon also said that only four districts of the state were selected for the survey. “It was first conducted in Patiala followed by Jalandhar and then in Gurdaspur. Now, the survey is being carried out in Ludhiana,” he said.The team is covering 69 districts of 21 states of the country. The districts have been shortlisted through global positioning system-based cluster selectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-new-case-of-coronavirus-in-ludhiana/story-9H7BE5IUXD8KfXQ8lcLgAK.html
28-05-2020||Pune||ACP with Pune police booked in extortion case in Satara||A case of extortion has been registered at Satara against Deepak Humbare, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), special branch.An assistant police inspector (API) SV Buva, in-charge of Bhuinj police station, was investigating the case until Wednesday. However, the investigation has now been transferred to a senior police officer in Satara.“No, there is no arrest yet. We are investigating the case,” said deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Ajit Tike of the Wai division of Satara police, who is now investigating the case.ACP Humbare has served as head of the control room at Pune police and was in the special branch when he was sent on compulsory leave.While on compulsory leave, he allegedly demanded Rs 50,000 from a person booked in a case of firing in Satara. He allegedly asked for the money in exchange for prevention of the said person’s arrest.The ACP also allegedly accepted Rs 40,000 after which a case of extortion was registered at Bhuinj police station.ACP Humbare has served in several parts of the state along with Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/acp-with-pune-police-booked-in-extortion-case-in-satara/story-EmeQexEJ4i0btrLwpYenKI.html
28-05-2020||Pune||Pune police alert citizens to sim swap cases||The cybercrime cell has warned citizens about a trend of cases related to sim swap. A pre-emptive note was issued by the cybercrime cell about precautions that citizens should take in order to evade sim swap attacks.“We keep a track of the kind of cases received and we have noticed a trend of such cases. This is a precautionary message to the citizens that such attempts are happening,” said DCP Sambhaji Kadam.Sim swap is a process by which your mobile number stops functioning on the sim card in your possession and starts functioning of another sim card, possibly in possession of a fraudster.The fraudsters pose as executives of mobile service provider companies and call the victim with a possible solution for network-related issues like call drop and internet speed, according to the police statement.A 20-digit number is then sent to the victim under the fake pretext of updating the sim card. The caller then asks the victim to forward those digits to 12345. The 10 digit mobile number then becomes inactive of the victim’s phone and becomes active on the sim in the caller’s possession.The cyber cell officials have warned citizens against such calls after complaints of this nature were received. The police have advised against entertaining such callers or forwarding such SMS.In case of a fraud, contact your service provider and the bank accounts where the number is registered. Further, report the matter to a cybercrime police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-police-alert-citizens-to-sim-swap-cases/story-Kyv7mSAEos5Rt2B63noqSO.html
28-05-2020||Delhi||15 more charge sheets against 292 Tablighi foreigners||A day after 20 charge sheets were filed against 82 foreigners who are members of the Tablighi Jamaat, Delhi Police on Wednesday submitted 15 charge sheets indicting 292 more for violation of visa conditions, lockdown rules, spreading Covid-19 and breaking quarantine rules under different sections of the Foreigners Act, the Epidemic Disease Act and IPC. Police said the accused attended a religious congregation at the Markaz, the headquarters of the Tableeghi Jamaat in Nizamuddin, in March. Now, the total number of foreigners chargesheeted in the case has risen to 374 in two days. The police have said that more than 900 people from 34 countries had arrived in India on a tourist visa or e-visa but “illegally indulged in missionary activities and attended the religious congregation, violating their visa rules”. The 15 charge sheets, comprising 13,070 pages, were filed before the duty magistrate at the Saket district court who posted the matter for June 17. Of the 292 foreigners chargesheeted on Wednesday, 80 each are from Bangladesh and Malaysia while 44 and 39 are from Myanmar and Thailand respectively. The others are from countries such as Nepal, Sri Lanka, Kenya, Mali, Nigeria, Tanzania, and South Africa, etc.Senior crime branch officers said that the 292 foreigners belong to 14 different countries. They have all been booked under Section 14 (b) of the Foreigners Act, Section 3 of the Epidemic Disease Act, Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act and four sections (188, 269, 270 and 271) of the Indian Penal Code for violating visa conditions, lockdown rules, spreading the virus, and breaking quarantine rules, the police said in the statement.The punishment for various offences under the penal provisions ranges from six months to eight years of imprisonment. “The visas of all the 374 foreigners have been cancelled by the Central government and they have also been blacklisted for attending religious congregations posing as tourists,” Delhi Police spokesperson Mandeep Singh Randhawa said. A senior investigator, who requested anonymity, said that of the 900-odd foreigners who illegally attended the congregation, the passports of only 723 have been recovered so far. The identity cards of 23 people from Nepal have also been seized by the investigating team, he said.“There are nearly 200 foreigners whose passport and other documents related to their arrival and stay in India are yet to be found. All these foreigners are staying in various quarantine centres in Delhi. We have been making efforts to recover their passports,” the investigators said.Crime branch officials said that more charge sheets will be filed against in the coming days.In the last week of March, the police and health officials had evacuated around 2,500 persons from inside the Markaz. The building was also sealed after at least 21 Tablighi Jamaat members tested positive for Covid-19. The Tablighi Jamaat in its statement then had said that its members were trapped inside the building during the nationwide lockdown because there was no conveyance available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/15-more-charge-sheets-against-292-foreign-nationals-of-tablighi-jamaat/story-ZTguB3avbGiW9fHrwVZWlO.html
28-05-2020||Delhi||4 furnaces down, this Delhi crematorium sends bodies back to hospital||Inside the Covid-19 mortuary of the Lok Nayak Hospital, there are 108 bodies. All 80 storage racks are full and there are 28 bodies on the floor, piled on top of each other, officials at the mortuary said.  On Tuesday, eight bodies were returned from the Nigambodh Ghat CNG crematorium because the facility was in no position to accept more bodies for disposal. Only two of its six furnaces were working. Lok Nayak Hospital is the largest dedicated Covid-19 hospital in the city, and its mortuary is the repository of bodies of those who died of the coronavirus disease or are suspected to have died of it. The bodies are wrapped in personal protection (PPE) kits and handled by employees wearing PPE suits. As many as 602 of the total 2,242 Covid-19 patients who are in hospital care across 16 hospitals in Delhi are admitted in the facility, which is not admitting any non-Covid cases at this time. Also read: Mixing patients may worsen Covid-19 spread, warn private hospitalsAs the number of Covid-19 cases and deaths toll mount in the capital, the hospital’s employees are overwhelmed. Delhi reported 792 coronavirus infections on Wednesday, taking the city’s tally to 15,257 since the first Covid-19 case was reported on March 2; 15 more deaths took the toll to 303. A hospital official described the scene in the mortuary. “We are yet to cremate the bodies of those who died five days ago,” the official said on condition of anonymity. “The backlog of such cases is increasing every day. Wearing PPE suits, we stand in the sun in this heat outside the crematorium only to be told in the evening that they cannot accept the bodies. Today there are 28 bodies on the floor lying next to each other or piled on top of each other. Last week, there were 34 .” Also read: 20% beds in 117 private hospitals to be reserved for Covid-19 surgeAt the Nigambodh Ghat electric crematorium, three of the six CNG furnaces were working until Monday; one of them developed a snag the same night. “We could not take the load and hence returned the bodies. On Tuesday, even after working extra hours, we only accepted 15 bodies,” an official at the crematorium said, pointing to a board that contained details of the 15 bodies from across different city hospitals that were acceptedCaught unpreparedOn Tuesday afternoon, when an HT team visited Nigambodh Ghat, workers were rebuilding the three damaged furnaces. Another group of workers was at work on the fourth. The workers said it would take at least two months to rebuild the three damaged chambers. The crematorium has received the bodies of at least 244 Covid-19 or suspected Covid-19 patients till date. “We have fixed the third furnace and it is working now,” said Suman Gupta of the Nigambodh Ghat Sanchalan Samiti, the trust that manages the crematorium. “Nobody was prepared for the surge of bodies related to Covid-19. Until the coronavirus pandemic, we got only 4-5 cases a day. We had to request people to come and use the CNG crematorium. The three defunct machines malfunctioned three to four months ago and it wasn’t a problem then. Ours is not a commercial business. Last week, we finally managed to convince the government to give us the money to fix the three furnaces. Work is on.”North Delhi Municipal Corporation has received ₹ 1.3 crore from Indraprastha Gas Limited (IGL) to repair the damaged CNG-based cremation furnaces at Nigambodh Ghat. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage One official at the Nigambodh Ghat crematorium said that even an extension of the daily shift hasn’t helped. “Before the pandemic, the crematorium operated between 9 am and 4 pm. Now it opens at 7 am and shuts operation at 10 pm. Even this is not helping. The workers need at least two hours to dispose a body. Collecting the ashes takes time. We are also helpless,” the official said.Bodies of Covid-19 patients and suspected Covid-19 patients are being taken to the electric crematoriums at Nigambodh Ghat and Punjabi Bagh. At Punjabi Bagh, there are two furnaces. Besides these, four burial grounds for Muslim and Christians have been approved in the Income Tax Office area, Mangolpuri, Madanpur Khadar and Shastri Park. The backlog in disposal of bodies has been caused by non-functioning furnaces at the crematorium, said Dr Suresh Kumar, director of Lok Nayak Hospital . “We had problems until about five days ago. Now it is being sorted. We have space to keep the bodies. The bodies are also being sent to other crematoriums,” he said.Cremation using wood North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s deputy commissioner and spokesperson Ira Singhal said the civic agency has now received orders to cremate bodies using wood as well. Still, the order signed by the municipal health officer said CNG and electric crematoriums were preferable. “The order has been issued so that the number of pending bodies for cremation could be cleared. We are making all efforts to tackle the problem. The three CNG furnaces were working but for the last two days, one developed a problem. The furnace is being repaired. We may be able to use it from tomorrow (Thursday),” she said.Singhal said: “The cremation using wood is also safe. The CNG method was adopted because there was less physical contact with the body. It is safe and adopted by other countries abroad too.”With a large number of bodies being sent to Nigambodh Ghat for last rites, the Delhi government has also posted six officials from the health department to ensure that people follow norms such as physical distancing and other guidelines while the cremation is performed. Utmost precautions are being taken in disposing the bodies, one worker at Nigambodh Ghat said. “The bodies come wrapped in PPE suits. No one is allowed to open the suit. A worker at the furnace and one from the hospital put it in the furnace without removing the suit. We follow this process for all positive as well as suspected cases,” said Vishal, a worker at the Nigambodh Ghat Sanchalan Samiti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/four-furnaces-down-delhi-crematoria-unable-to-handle-bodies-coming-in/story-Vd2I65JT6AnvGZUaZ36kYK.html
28-05-2020||Delhi||Civil supplies dept told to restart doorstep delivery of ration||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has directed the food and civil supplies department to restart the Delhi government’s flagship project of doorstep delivery of ration using electronic point of sale (e-PoS) devices. The direction came after Union food minister Ram Vilas Paswan wrote to Kejriwal, urging Delhi to implement the Centre’s ‘one nation, one ration card’ policy.Paswan, in his letter dated May 23, had explained that the inclusion of the national capital in the scheme would mean that 71 lakh ration card holders of Delhi will be able to get their monthly ration from any fair price shop in the country. Using e-PoS devices is key to both the ‘one nation, one ration’ policy and the doorstep delivery of ration, a senior government official said. As per the plan, e-PoS devices are to be given to all the 2,028 fair price shops in Delhi and also to agents who would deliver the monthly ration to the doorstep of card holders. The process includes entering the ration card number into the device, followed by the biometric (fingerprint scanning) of the beneficiary or entering the Aadhaar card details. Once the details are matched with the database, the ration is disbursed to the beneficiary. “I want to point out that Delhi, despite having 100% Aadhaar seeding of its ration card holders and having e-PoS devices in its fair price shops, is not disbursing ration based on biometrics. This is because the Delhi government has stopped the usage of e-PoS for ration distribution from April 2018. This was to be resumed by the Delhi government, but the same has not happened till now,” Paswan’s letter in Hindi said. Responding to this, the chief minister’s office directed additional chief secretary (home) Satya Gopal, who is the nodal officer for Covid in Delhi, to ensure implementation of doorstep delivery of ration through e-POS. “Following the directions, we have sent all our e-PoS machines to Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) for its health check since they have not been in use for a long time. There were also some software glitches that we were facing which has been resolved now,” said a senior government official on condition of anonymity. 32 LAKH E-COUPONS ISSUED Delhi’s food and civil supplies department has managed to issue at least one round of ration to over 1 crore people since April, government reports showed. “The 71 lakh ration card holders have already received two rounds of free enhanced ration. For non-ration card holders, the department has disbursed dry ration to over 32 lakh people in two rounds so far. In the second round, which began from May 18, we provided the CM relief kits to beneficiaries,” a senior government official said. The government also has a third tier for those who do not have ration cards or Aadhaar cards, which is the emergency food relief coupons that are being disbursed by MLAs and MPs of Delhi.“We have completed one round of disbursing ration through these emergency coupons and these covered 1.74 lakh beneficiaries. Printing of coupons for the second round is currently underway. This time, we will have colour coded coupons with barcodes,” a second official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/civil-supplies-dept-told-to-restart-doorstep-delivery-of-ration/story-R1ni4oMqheNeLLNVeOhNVO.html
28-05-2020||Pune||Serum Institute confident of manufacturing Covid vaccine’s 100 million doses if trials establish efficacy||Serum Institute, the world largest manufacturer of vaccines by volume, has currently joined hands with various global pharmaceutical institutes and firms in efforts to produce a vaccine for Covid-19. Serum Institute’s chief executive officer (CEO) Adar Poonawalla, via email, share his views on the current status of Covid-19 and BCG vaccines.There are trials for the recombinant Bacille Calmette-Guerian (BCG) vaccine underway in Pune and other places. What is the update on this?Serum Institute of India’s (SII) recombinant BCG vaccine trials are going on in Pune at Ruby Hall, KEM Pune and Jehangir Hospital, Pune. These trials are going on in more than 30 location across the country. These are phase-3 trials to improve the innate ability to fight the virus and reduce the severity. Is there any timeframe Serum institute is looking at for the production of recombinant BCG vaccine that promises to boost human immunity against Covid-19?This is an extremely safe vaccine since it is given to new-born babies and we have been selling this in more than 100 countries worldwide for more than two decades. Based on our trials, we will be certain on the efficacy and viability of the vaccine, post which we will be able to comment on the production of the vaccine. We are already manufacturing the rBCG vaccine only for our ongoing clinical trials. On Covid-19 vaccine being developed by Oxford University, how have dynamics changed for Serum after AstraZeneca recently joined forces with the UK government to support Oxford’s vaccine?Currently, our discussion with AstraZeneca is on-going. For now, we can certainly say that if the trials are successful in establishing efficacy, we will manufacture more than 100 million doses. We can comment further once the deal is concluded and finalised.When can Serum expect to start manufacturing of Covid-19 vaccine?Since our deal with AstraZeneca is yet to be finalized, it would be difficult to comment on the exact timeline. However, we aim to produce four-five million doses a month once the deal is concluded and then gradually ramp up the production, based on the success of the trials.What is the status of Serum’s independent endeavour to develop a vaccine on COVID with USA-based firm Codagenix?At present, we are undergoing pre-clinical trials (animal trial phase) and hope to progress to the human trial phase by September/October. The aim is to make the vaccine over the next 1.5-twoyears to help combat the novel Coronavirus. With the combined efforts of our partner Codagenix, we are optimistic that we will be able to provide a viable and effective vaccine for mass use.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/serum-institute-confident-of-manufacturing-covid-vaccine-s-100-million-doses-if-trials-establish-efficacy/story-MrVAw982iSC2IdxAqWt9II.html
28-05-2020||Pune||Pune police book woman for cheating labourers of Rs 5,000||A woman was booked for allegedly cheating five migrant labourers by taking money from them under a false pretext of getting them a pass to travel to Uttar Pradesh.A complaint in the matter was lodged by the owner of a paan kiosk identified as Rajeshkumar Shamacharan Gautam, 40, a resident of Chintamani nagar area of Hadapsar.The transactions happened between May 22 and May 26, according to the complainant near a rickshaw stand in Gadital area of Hadapsar.The accused allegedly took Rs 1,000 from each of the five people with a promise of filling forms and getting a permit for travel to their native place on the Shramik special trains started by the government.The accused, according to the complaint, is also a resident of the same area.The complainant and the four witnesses are natives of Uttar Pradesh. A case under section 420 (punishment for cheating) of Indian penal code along with sections 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act was registered at the Hadapsar police station. Police sub-inspector RR Patil of Hadapsar police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-booked-for-cheating-labourers-of-rs-5-000/story-GO0KiVN1PL9lszt2ibiiWL.html
28-05-2020||Gurugram||Woman held for extorting three men of ₹30 lakh after accusing them of rape||The police on Tuesday arrested a 28-year-old woman for attempting to extort three men, including a police officer, of ₹30 lakh, three days after accusing them of molesting and raping her and lodging an FIR against them in Palam Vihar. The police said that after lodging the FIR, the woman and her friend contacted acquaintances of two of the men, asking them to pay ₹30 lakh to withdraw the case. The police said the woman worked at a spa in DLF phase 1. They added that in 2010, she had accused another man of raping her in Rewari and later withdrawn the case after taking money from him. On Sunday, the woman had alleged that on May 23 around 5.30pm, she had received a phone call from her friend, a police constable. “He asked me to come along for a drive. Two of his friends, including one who called himself a sarpanch, were seated in the car. On the way, they started consuming liquor and stopped at a banquet hall, where they drank more alcohol. I was sitting in a room when two of them started misbehaving with me and groped me. The third person took me to a separate room and raped me,” she had stated in the complaint, adding that she was slapped and threatened. The police had registered an FIR against the three persons, including the police constable, under sections 376 D (gang rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code at the Palam Vihar police station. One of the men she accused was arrested.The police said the woman had acquainted herself with the police officer she accused when he was posted at DLF phase 1 police station. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, that during questioning, the woman revealed that on May 23, she planned the conspiracy to extort money from the police officer and his ‘sarpanch’ friend. “After she sat in the car and heard one of the men refer to himself as a sarpanch, she came up with a plan. The woman and the three men consumed liquor and went to a banquet hall, where the policeman and his friend went to sleep. The woman then had consensual sex with the third man she accused,” Boken said. The same evening, she filed a case. The police said on Tuesday that a friend of the men she accused approached the police stating that he had received a phone call from a friend of the complainant, who asked him for ₹30 lakh to withdraw the case. “The complainant also called a head constable who is a friend of the accused policeman. During the phone call, she said that she would get the FIR cancelled if he paid her ₹30 lakh. The police constable submitted the recording of the phone call as evidence,” Boken said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/woman-held-for-extorting-three-men-of-30-lakh-after-accusing-them-of-rape/story-jmvQctzfJq54zoY8nWfD0N.html
28-05-2020||Delhi||Nodal officers appointed to help in medical emergencies in Delhi containment zones||The Delhi government has released a new protocol for streamlining the process of dealing with medical emergencies in containment zones, appointing nodal officers across districts who would help in arranging ambulances and health workers, a senior government officials said on Wednesday. Delhi has 96 containment zones, according to the government health bulletin issued on Wednesday. Residents of these areas are not allowed to venture outdoors even to procure essential goods and medicines. Medical emergencies are the only exception. In the latest move, nodal officers have been appointed for all 33 subdivisions under Delhi’s 11 revenue districts. A senior government official said each nodal officer has a team and resources that include vehicles and health workers who can be availed of at the earliest in case of a health emergency. The phone numbers of the nodal officers have been distributed among residents of containment zones in the past few days. So, in case of a health emergency, they have to dial a single number for help, the official said.“In some districts, the nodal officers are monitoring the process of doorstep delivery of essentials,” said district magistrate (south) BM Mishra.Another government official said, “Initially, there were cases in which police officials or health officials deployed in the containment zones were informed about health emergency and they told their seniors before arranging an ambulance themselves. In some cases, they did have the resources. In others, they prioritised protocols over natural instinct. Ultimately, it resulted in delays.”Then there are cases when police officials have arranged vehicles on their own to tackle emergencies, said the official, adding: “The appointment of nodal officers is expected to further streamline the process.”Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicine department in Safdarjung Hospital, said: “It can be a good strategy provided that the nodal officers have access to adequate resources – from vehicles to manpower needed to attend a large number of calls and act as helping hand during emergencies. It would be even better if the government considers involving community volunteers in this process. It would get further streamlined.”GROUND STORIESOf all the current containment zones in Delhi, the oldest one happens to be Nizamuddin Basti in south-east district that was made as a no-go zone on March 30, after around 3,000 people were evacuated from the Markaz building in the vicinity. Earlier that month, the building had witnessed a religious congregation attended by thousands. The area is yet to be de-sealed. On April 26, Mohammad Yasin, a resident of Nizamuddin Basti, had to be rushed to the hospital for a sudden stomach pain that turned severe within minutes. His relatives said they tried calling an ambulance on their own but that did not work out. So, they had to take help of the police officials deployed at the nearest barricade.“My brother then took me in a car and tried to go to a hospital but the authorities stopped us at the checkpoint and asked if it was a genuine case of a medical emergency. It took a lot of time to convince them and get a nod to go out of the area,” he said.Yasin alleged that several hospitals refused to diagnose him after he disclosed his address that indicated that he lived in a containment zone. Later, he was admitted at a private hospital, he saidSalim Nizami, a resident of Nizamuddin Basti, said his daughter had labour pain in the first week of April and had to be taken to a private hospital which she regularly visited for check-ups during her pregnancy. “But the hospital admitted her after a long argument and a Covid test, while she was writhing in pain,” said Nizami, a doctor himself.Four separate district magistrates who HT spoke to said that no hospital is supposed to refuse patients from containment zones and there is a clear protocol for that issued by the Union health ministry. They, however, refused to disclose any specific case.Kishore said: “Hospitals have screening OPDs for this purpose. In case a resident of a containment zone is found to be symptomatic then the person should be tested and isolated till the test results are out, unless it is a medical emergency that requires immediate intervention. If the person tests positive later, he/she should be moved to a dedicated Covid facility and treated there. If not, they should be treated in a normal (non-Covid) ward in the hospital. Asymptomatic people should be treated immediately. Refusing to entertain patients just because they are residents of a containment zone is unethical.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/nodal-officers-appointed-to-help-in-medical-emergencies-in-delhi-containment-zones/story-lNi6h3RtWwcK1NMlOIEJ6M.html
28-05-2020||Gurugram||Man killed after fight over overflowing water||A woman and her juvenile daughter were arrested for allegedly murdering a 47-year-old man after a fight over overflowing water in Nathupur in DLF phase 3, the police said Wednesday. The police said the deceased man, Kishori Lal of Ghaziabad who had a garment shop in Nathupur, succumbed after he was injured while trying to settle an argument between his wife and their neighbours. The police said Lal’s family and their neighbours share a terrace. According to the police, the incident took place around 6pm on Monday when Lal’s wife, Saroj, was pouring water on the terrace, where she sleeps on a cot, for respite from the heat. A police officer privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said that his neighbour Satbir was sitting on a cot on the terrace and cooking at the time of the incident. When Saroj was pouring water, some of it flowed underneath Satbir’s cot, leading to an argument. “Satbir’s wife and daughter objected to the overflowing water and an argument ensued. According to the complainant Saroj, Satbir’s wife and daughter started assaulting her and her husband rushed to help her. In the alleged scuffle, he was kicked and beaten up,” the police officer said. The police said Lal sustained a groin injury and fell unconscious. He was rushed to a private hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival. The police have arrested the neighbour Sonia, who works as a housekeeper, and her 15-year-old daughter in the case. The police said the juvenile would be sent to an observation home in Karnal.A case was registered under sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code at DLF phase 3 police station. In another incident, three men were arrested for allegedly murdering a 28-year-old daily wager after a drunken spat post a gambling session in Pataudi on Wednesday. The police said the victim, Bijender alias Badshah, was playing cards with Kuldeep alias Chikla, Satbir and Deepak on Tuesday evening. After Bijender won the game, the group started drinking liquor and while doing so, the victim got into a petty argument with the other men. One of the accused men, Deepak, hit him with a brick. The other two men also hit him with stones and bricks and fled. The police said his body was found near Major Market in Pataudi late Tuesday night. There were injuries on his face, suggesting that his head had been bludgeoned with a heavy object multiple times, the police said. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “The trio was arrested from Pataudi on Wednesday. A case of murder has been registered.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-killed-after-fight-over-overflowing-water/story-HwRtT8Tu7lI4vbrHejVVhN.html
28-05-2020||Noida||Get all property related work done online in Noida from June 1||The Noida authority has decided to discourage human interactions and get all property related work done online from June 1, officials said.The move comes after the ministry of health and family welfare has directed government bodies and other entities to follow social distancing at workplaces to contain the spread of Covid-19 infection.“All property services of Noida authority will be made fully online from June 1. No one will be allowed or required to visit office for any work related to property. The help desk at the authority office gate will facilitate uploading of documents related to the work to be done. The work will be done within a minimum of a week and a maximum of three weeks,” Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer, Noida authority, said. “Once lockdown is lifted, people can meet officer on special duty and attend predefined public meetings for grievance redressal,” Maheshwari said.The authority’s website will provide multiple property related services, including transfer of memorandum, payment of lease rent, map approval and mortgage permission among others through online platform. Transfer of memorandum is required for a flat, plot or other property when one wants to sell it. To get the document issued, one has to visit office and then start the process. Now, the website will assist the applicant to speed up the process and the work will be done in a timebound manner, officials said.“The authority was already sanctioning online the maps of individual residential houses and industrial plots measuring up to 1,000 square metres. Now, the authority will start carrying out all kinds of property related work online. It means all kinds of maps will be sanctioned online. An applicant can submit the application along with documents online and then get the work done. If any document is missing, then the portal will help the applicant to upload the same. This is a move to discourage people from coming to public offices and put themselves at risk,” another Noida authority official, requesting anonymity, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/get-all-property-related-work-done-online-in-noida-from-june-1/story-gT0yljFMEwcz7VQodcBf0H.html
28-05-2020||Noida||No cases being heard at GB Nagar consumer forum||The Gautam Budh Nagar district consumer disputes redressal forum has not been hearing any cases for two months now, ever since the forum president’s term expired on March 31. The Uttar Pradesh government had earlier issued directions stating that the district consumer disputes redressal forum should function with reduced staff during Lockdown 4.0.“Around 10 cases are being listed every day. The cause list has been prepared. These were to be taken up in two shifts. Five cases in the morning and five in afternoon. As per guidelines, only 33 percent staff is allowed to work . The staff duties were assigned accordingly. However, as the forum president’s post is vacant and we cannot conduct any hearings. In all the listed cases, only the next dates are being issued,” said Nirmala Singh, a forum member.Jagdeep Singh, an advocate with the forum said, “The forum president of Kannauj has been given additional charge of GB Nagar . But, he has only drawing and disbursing powers. This was done so that there is no problem in withdrawal of salaries for staff of the forum. He has no presiding powers and he cannot hear cases in GB Nagar. We have demanded that either he be given presiding power or another forum president be appointed so that hearing of cases starts.”The Gautam Budh Nagar district consumer forum advocates association has suggested that video conferencing hearing in consumer court cases should start on the lines of Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority(UPRERA). “Video conferencing will help complainants, advocates and forum president and members. When it can be done successfully in UPRERA, we feel it can be successful in consumer forum cases too,” said Rajinder Dhar, association representative, on Wednesday.“Further we feel that, just like RERA, single benches single member benches should hear and decide on complaints at consumer courts too. Presently, at least two members — one president and one member —are required to issue an order. Single member bench will solve the shortage of consumer forum members and chairman. More cases will be resolved, as instead of one forum bench, three single member benches will function. All this needs is an amendment to the consumer protection act,” said Dhar.Several complainants too felt video conferencing can solve a lot of problems and will be beneficial. “I have not hired an advocate and am pursuing my case myself. Video conference hearing will save time and money for me,” said Satish Sharma, one of the complainants.Mahinder Pal Singh, president Kannauj district forum, who has been given drawing and disbursal powers of Gautam Budh Nagar consumer forum, said on Wednesday, “There is shortage of members and presidents. Several consumer forum posts in the state are lying vacant. I have been looking after Kannauj, Ghaziabad and Baghpat. As there is no member, I cannot issue orders in complaints.”“Even if I start hearing cases through video conferencing orders cannot be passed as quorum of at least two members is needed. Where we have quorum, video conferencing can be done,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/no-cases-being-heard-at-gb-nagar-consumer-forum/story-wEAlX4YWZzLJ82IxVmQN3M.html
28-05-2020||City||Parents’ association protests against Punjab education minister on Facebook live||Four members of Parents’ Association, Punjab, went live on Facebook on Wednesday and raised questions to an effigy of state education minister Vijay Inder Singla for changing his statement related to collection of school fee amid the Covid-19 lockdown.They accused the minister of allowing private schools to charge tuition fee on monthly or quarterly basis from parents. The members stated that on April 10, the minister had announced that no private school will charge any fee in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. “But then on May 14, he changed the statement and allowed private schools to charge the tuition fee,” they said.Rajinder Ghai, president of the association, said, “The parents were forced to protest due to the financial constraints caused by the lockdown. People are thinking about survival at this crucial time and the private schools are sending messages to parents to submit the tuition fee and other charges.”Since May 19, this is the sixth protest in Ludhiana by parents of different associations against private schools forcing them to submit the fee.Meanwhile, another protest was held by the members of Shiv Sena, Punjab, and parents of students from various different schools outside the deputy commissioner’s (DC) office. Flouting the social distancing norms, parents and members of Shiv Sena protested for an hour, raising slogans against the schools. They also submitted a memorandum to the DC.Chairman of Shiv Sena, Punjab, Rajiv Tandon, said, “Private schools have been sending messages in the WhatsApp groups formed by teachers and highlighting the names of the students whose parents have not submitted the fee. The government should not allow the private schools to charge any fee as the schools have been closed. The government needs to intervene and take a decision to provide relief to the parents.”“Parents have been staying at home for the last two months. How will they pay the fee? If the state government fails to provide relief to the parents, then we will continue to protest,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/parents-association-protests-against-punjab-education-minister-on-facebook-live/story-x1Pw3GWwksi0Mve590P6WK.html
28-05-2020||Delhi||Draw up ‘micro plans’ to manage students when schools reopen,Delhi govt tells schools||With schools in Delhi likely to reopen by sometime in July, the Delhi government has asked principals of all state-run schools to ready “micro plans” on how to bring students back to classes, while at the same time keeping them safe from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). To that end, the government has sought a number of suggestions and information from all schools, which include drawing up a roster of online and offline classes, identifying classes whose students should come to school daily, and offering emotional support to students. The Delhi government and the NCERT have also been preparing standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the reopening of schools. Classes were suspended in Delhi on March 19 when the Covid-19 pandemic had hit the capital. The Delhi government later announced that the summer vacations will be from May 11 to June 30. The private schools in the city also announced summer break for the same period. However, online classes are still on in both government and private schools. Although the Delhi government has not announced any date for the reopening of schools in Delhi as yet, officials said a decision on this will be taken only after the pending board exams -- scheduled between July 1 and 15 -- are over. In a letter sent to the heads of Delhi government-run schools on Tuesday, the directorate of education (DoE) said that a micro plan should be ready with each school --- keeping in view the enrolment, availability of human and infrastructure resources--- for reopening whenever that may be. The plan will be prepared in consultation with the teachers, parents, and members of the school management committees (SMCs). While formulating their micro plans, the government schools were asked to brainstorm ways to bring back students while ensuring that they are properly tracked. Schools have been asked to suggest the number of students each class can accommodate while maintaining social distancing and the number of students who can attend school each day, based on the classrooms available. Schools have also been directed to inform if they need more staff to maintain proper sanitation on their premises.The DoE has also directed government schools to provide the number of students enrolled before the lockdown. “We have asked schools to provide the number of students who were in regular touch during the lockdown and what’s the penetration of smartphones/computers among them. They have also been asked to provide the number of students who could not be contacted at all. We have also sought an estimate of students who will return in case schools reopen in July. The government will chalk out its outreach plan based on these information,” a senior DoE official said.The DoE has also asked school heads to plan on how to raise resources. Schools have been asked to submit their plans with their district education directors by June 5.Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia also met with principals of over 1,000 government schools on Wednesday through video conferencing. “The reason we are following an elaborate planning process is because we need to keep many factors in mind before making a decision. It is not just about maintaining social distancing or sanitisation alone. Any decision will have far-reaching implications on children and their families because schools are an integral part of our life,” he said. “I appeal to you to lead an in-depth brainstorming at school level involving all key stakeholders and come up with a micro plan on how to lead the transition when the time comes. We cannot have a common plan to reopen for all schools this year as the context of each school is different,” Sisodia said. Several principals on Wednesday said student from nursery to class 8 shall not be called to school immediately on reopening. AK Jha, principal of Sarvodya Vidyalaya Co-Ed in Rohini, said, “These children are too young to understand social distancing norms. It’s better if they can be taught online till August or September. Classes can be resumed for classes 9 to 12 in batches.”Meanwhile, some private schools have also started drafting their SOPs. For instance, Mount Abu School has prepared its own guidelines which specify, among other things, a limiting of student strength to 33% at a time, switching off air-conditioners in classes and on buses, compulsory daily screening, apart from mandatory masks, gloves, and hand sanitisers and different recess timings for different classes. “We have prepared the SOPs based on our own requirements and will incorporate them with the guidelines issued by the NCERT and the Delhi government,” Mount Abu principal Jyoti Arora said.Amita Wattal, principal of Springdales School, Pusa Road, said her school has also prepared SOPs for reopening. “First, we are going to implement the SOPs for the board exams to be held in July. We will cordon off some areas to ensure complete sanitisation. We will also limit the number of students to two at a time in toilets. Areas such a library, labs and canteen will remain shut,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/draw-up-micro-plans-to-manage-students-when-schools-reopen-delhi-govt-tells-schools/story-b8MYG0g8dPPRGCaoMIUbiP.html
28-05-2020||Delhi||Kejriwal thanks Covid-19 warriors, salutes them for being #DilliKeHeroes||“I have told members at my home to think that our family is now of 30-35,000 people. If I go back home, thousands will spend a day hungry,” said Vijay Yadav (36), a cook in the government’s hunger relief programme, in a video shared by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday to salute the front-line workers during the pandemic. Kicking off the #DilliKeHeroes campaign with Yadav’s video, Kejriwal tweeted, “Most of us were locked in our homes during the Covid epidemic. But, some Delhiites were serving the people of the city and the country. The entire Delhi salutes these #DilliKeHeroes. I will begin sharing the stories of such heroes on social media from today.”In the video, Yadav is seen at his workstation, a school, cooking kilos of rice and daal. He then looks at the camera and talks about his daily schedule. “I work in the hunger relief centre the whole day, and can only find two hours a day for myself. When I used to work in the midday meal centre before the lockdown, the work was much less, but now, I am working for 22 hours straight. We serve 60-70 centres and cook food for around 30-35000 people. Our first phase of cooking continues from around 2am till 8am. Then the second phase starts from noon after all the supplies have reached our kitchen,” he said. For 34-year-old Asha, a nurse at LNJP Hospital, it has been a month since she has gone home. Since this is a pandemic, she said she is staying away from her family.“I stay in touch with my family and my kids through video calls. We are required to work continuous shifts for 14 days — in the morning, evening, and night. Our morning and evening shifts are for six hours and the night shift is for 12 hours. We do not have any leaves, and there will be continuous duties for 14 days and then quarantine for 14 days,” she said. Rajendra, a 27-year-old civil defence volunteer deployed at a hunger relief centre in Kalkaji has to ensure social distancing at the centre. He said he stays away from home as much as possible. Even when he visits, he prefers getting his body temperature checked before entering his home to meet his family members.Dr Ajit Jain, a cardiac surgeon at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital, said it has been two months since he met his family, and that his kids start crying whenever he talks to them on the phone. “The CM held a zoom call with all of us during the lockdown and arranged the best possible stay arrangements for us in hotels, because travelling would have been a problem for us. Transport arrangements have also been made for healthcare staff to travel between hospitals and hotels,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kejriwal-salutes-dillikeheroes/story-1v5TdSm40uMQ1uLM1SIJwM.html
28-05-2020||Noida||7 from Zee News among nine discharged, Covid-19 count at 366 in GB Nagar||As many as seven Zee media group employees, who had tested positive for Covid-19, were discharged on Wednesday, after being cured at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), Greater Noida.GIMS director Dr Rakesh Gupta said all of them had been admitted to the hospital on May 18. “Of the around 25 Zee media employees who were admitted here, seven have been discharged after treatment,” he said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageDr Gupta further said the remaining employees of the company are also recovering and may be discharged within the next three or four days.Meanwhile, the overall tally of positive cases in Gautam Budh Nagar district touched 366 on Wednesday with reports of four new Covid-19 cases. District surveillance officer Dr Sunil Dohre said the four new Covid-19 cases were of a 36-year-old, a 60-year-old woman and a four-year-old child, all from the same family living in Sector 17. “The fourth positive case was of a 38-year-old woman from Greater Noida West. Of the 366 cases, 253 have been discharged after treatment,while five patients have so far lost their lives and 16 have been cross notified from other districts and states. In all, we now have only 108 active cases,” he said.Dr Dohre said that apart from seven employees of the news channel, a 27-year-old man and a 68-year-old woman were discharged from super speciality paediatric hospital and post graduate teaching institute (Child PGI).Dr Dohre further said that health camps were organised in 12 sensitive places in the district on Wednesday, including at Mamura, Nithari, Sarfabad, Harola, sector 8, 9 and 10. “A total of 781 patients were screened today and nine out of them, who had symptoms of fever, have been referred to the district hospital,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/7-from-zee-news-among-nine-discharged-covid-19-count-at-366-in-gb-nagar/story-y7ZURbqc4imNbNHfQnDngJ.html
28-05-2020||City||Police clueless about the person who threw Gutka Sahib inside Ludhiana gurdwara||A day after it was reported that an unidentified person threw a Gutka Sahib in a gurdwara with a letter inserted in it at Bhanohar village of Mullanpur, police were clueless about the accused, who wrote in the letter that the department had failed to arrest the killer of a 25-year-old city woman, who had allegedly committed suicide in 2018.A team of Mullanpur police have checked the footage of CCTV cameras of the nearby area and also talked to the maternal uncles of the woman, but haven’t been able to trace the person yet.Mullanpur Dakha station house officer (SHO) inspector Prem Singh said the gurdwara committee had found the letter on May 23, but informed them about it on Tuesday.After the letter was found, tension gripped the villagers as the letter read, “Kudi maari hai, par usde katil nahi fadey (the woman was killed, but police have not arrested the killers).”2018 CASESHO Prem Singh said the letter referred to a woman, who had consumed poison, adding that they had conducted inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in February 2018. “The woman was a divorcee and was living with her maternal uncles in the village,” he said.The official alsosaid, “We have checked the footage of some CCTV cameras installed near the gurdwara, but couldn’t find anyone throwing Gutka Sahib. The investigation is still under process and we are questioning people residing near the gurdwara and other people who were in close contact with the woman.”Meanwhile, the police are also suspecting that someone may have played a prank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-clueless-about-the-person-who-threw-gutka-sahib-inside-ludhiana-gurdwara/story-neqsc0AkhD7u1p9yIQLWUN.html
28-05-2020||Delhi||65-yr-old unconscious man in south Delhi market fails to get help for over 3 hours, dies||A 65-year-old man, who used to work as an attendant at All India Institute of Medical Sciences until last year, did not get any help for over three hours after falling unconscious at south Delhi’s Yusuf Sarai market. He died later in the day at a hospital.Onlookers refused to approach him due to fear of contracting Covid-19. A police official, who stepped in to move the man to a hospital, said he died during treatment. A senior police officer said it is unclear whether the elderly man was suffering from Covid-19. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe man, who was later identified as a resident of Kotla Mubarakpur, was found lying unconscious at the market by some passersby around 10.30am on Wednesday. “For nearly three hours, no one helped him. They were afraid to approach him as they feared he was infected with Coronavirus,” said the first police official, on the condition of anonymity.At 1.39pm, a passerby called the police control room to inform about the man. “The beat police officer reached the spot and called three ambulances to help the man reach a hospital,” said Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south). “One of our constables hurriedly arranged a personal protective equipment (PPE) kit, wore it and moved the unconscious man into the ambulance,” Thakur said. The first police official said that the unconscious man was first taken to a nearby hospital, but when the ambulance driver advised that he wouldn’t get admission there, he was taken to Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital in east Delhi. “Around 7pm, the hospital authorities alerted us that the man died,” said the first official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-falls-unconscious-in-delhi-market-onlookers-refuse-to-help-fearing-covid-he-dies-later-in-hospital/story-HMxQss6EBWyBoKhNLtkFiJ.html
28-05-2020||City||Double whammy for traders as Ludhiana smart city projects get delayed||The coronavirus lockdown has given a two-fold blow to the shopkeepers of Sarabha Nagar main market and Malhar Road. Apart from hitting their business, the lockdown has also delayed the ongoing smart city projects in the respective areas. The contractor concerned has dug up the areas at different points resulting in traffic and parking woes.The projects, including Sarabha Nagar market retrofitting project and the development of Malhar Road into a smart road worth over Rs 38 crore, were inaugurated in March last year and the civil works commenced in July. The projects were to be completed by May 24, but the works came to halt after the imposition of curfew in the state on March 23.The construction work was restarted after getting permission from the district administration in the last week of April, but not in its full capacity due to the precautionary restrictions imposed by the administration.SMART CITY BODY MAY GIVE EXTENSIONWhile the Ludhiana Smart City Limited (LSCL) authorities are contemplating to grant an extension of two months for completion of the projects, the construction company officials claimed that it might take over six months to complete the work as it has been hit due to the lockdown and reverse migration of labourers. “So far, around 60% work has been completed,” they said. Sarabha Nagar Main Market Traders’ Association chairman Wangjenn Chiu said, “It is obvious that the project will miss the deadline due to the lockdown, but the authorities should expedite the work as the construction has now commenced. The project should be completed before monsoon hits, otherwise, it will again come to halt.” Shopkeepers of Malhar Road also demanded that the project for developing the road into a smart road should be completed at the earliest as it will increase the footfall in the market, which is good for business.Malhar Road Traders’ Association president Paramjit Singh said, “The business is at an all-time low with only few customers visiting the shops on amdaily basis due to the lockdown restrictions and rising mercury. Last year also, many cars and two-wheelers got stuck in the dug up area as sand poured over the area settled down during rainfall resulting into potholes.”LSCL chief executive officer Sanyam Agarwal said the contractors were facing trouble in taking up the projects amid the lockdown “as material was also not readily available.” “Two-month extension will be given to the contractor and they will be asked to complete the works at the earliest,” he said.The smart road project being taken up on Malhar Road includes establishment of a storm water sewer, cycle tracks, 24/7 water supply, underground wiring, beautification and plantation drives. Parking area will also be developed under the project. Sarabha Nagar market retrofitting project comprises electrical wiring, fire safety, beautification and development of parking area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/double-whammy-for-traders-as-ludhiana-smart-city-projects-get-delayed/story-V5eb3ipkPziXP6HEaXuXOM.html
28-05-2020||Pune||On study leave, Pune cub doctor comes home and masters the lesson of service||For Dr Charuta Shrotriya, her visit home from Kolkata has turned into a mission that is part of her profession. The 26-year-old has been volunteering for Covid-19 treatment along with her two doctor friends since March at the PMC-run Naidu Infectious Diseases Hospital.“I am working with Dr Ravisha More and Dr Aditya Lal, my 2017 batchmates of Bharati Vidyapeeth Medical College Pune. I am doing my post-graduation in Ophthalmology from Kolkata and had visited home in March for a few days and the lockdown was imposed,” said Dr Charuta.Dr Lal, who was approached by Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to set up a quarantine zone, contacted Dr Charuta and the latter agreed after convincing her concerned family.“I could not fathom sitting at home doing nothing when can of be of help. My intentions behind volunteering were just that — help out in any way I could since it was my duty as a doctor to do something because Pune was one of the cities worst-hit by Covid-19,” said Dr Charuta, while examining people at Naidu that sees a lot of patients every day. At Naidu, she works in the flu outpatient department and also visits the wards where patients are admitted. “We evaluate patients’ symptoms and decide treatment accordingly. We see 60-70 patients every day,” she said. Dr Charu said that her family were initially against her volunteering as two high-risk members, her grandparents, live in the house. “My Dad agreed and we devised a preventive measure before I started visiting the hospital. My only fear is that family should not suffer because of my decision. So far, it is going on well,” she said.She works at Naidu for nine hours, except on Sunday. “The staff her are helpful and kind-hearted, especially Dr Sudhir Patsute, the medical superintendent, and resident medical officer Dr Namrata Chandanshiv.” She said that her experience will benefit her career.“The best part of the day is when we discharge suspected patients when they test negative. The happiness on their faces is incomparable. With hospitals nearing capacity, many times patients are not admitted because there is not enough beds. I feel sad for their plight. We do our best to ensure they can be accommodated in some medical centre. Patients who are caught in this cycle of referral sometimes threaten us but we deal with them calmly. We had one deceased positive patient’s son who demanded answers and threatened to end his life. We had a patient who became violent because he didn’t want to stay admitted. Our head personally meet them and address their concerns,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/on-study-leave-cub-doctor-in-pune-masters-the-lesson-of-service/story-ozueY1q3dQja6J5ykgmdMN.html
28-05-2020||Pune||Video of dirty isolation centre in Pune exposes admin’s clean-up act||Sinks covered with vomit, piles of discarded clothes of discharged Covid-19 patients, lobby filled with garbage and food containers, greeted the eyes of inmates of the isolation centre at Sinhgad College Girls Hostel in Vadgaon Budruk. With 240 rooms, the hostel, as of Wednesday, caters to 450 Covid-19 patients who test positive for the Sars-Cov-2 virus and mostly live in Tadiwala road and Bhavani peth slums. One of the patients recorded a video of his ordeal at the isolation centre and uploaded the video on his social media pages. The video allegedly also shows how inmates have been made to clean the dirty corridors of the centre. Once the video was widely circulated on social media, the administration swung into action and cleared the garbage and sanitised the rooms. However, civic officials also stated that patients were the one to blame as they have been creating problems as they do not want to stay in the hostel. The patient who recorded the video is a resident of Sant Gadge Maharaj Vasahat which is close to Koregaon Park. The patient said, “We were first housed at the Kasturba Civic School, where our swabs were collected on Friday and then till Monday, we were housed there. When the results were received, the positive patients were taken to the Sinhgad College hostel, which is an isolation centre. At least 100 people were kept in the school without following any social distancing and hence, suspected positive and negative cases were all huddled together.”The patient further alleged that none of the positive patients were shown their results. “When we came here, we had only one drinking water tap for 450 patients and the sinks were stinking as they had not been cleaned, garbage and food packages were kept in the corridor. We did not get masks and we have been using the same mask since the past three days, we were not given any sanitisers and the clothes and belongings of other patients had not been discarded. We had to clean our rooms ourselves as none of the workers were ready to clean it. Once I put the video online, the sanitation workers came and cleared the centre.”Shekhar Gaikwad, Pune municipal commissioner, said, “We will have to investigate this particular case because we do provide sanitisers and masks to everyone and have placed it inside each room and at the entrance too. This could be a complaint from one person out of the thousands, who have been isolated. The masks which we provide are reusable most of the time. It can be washed and reused. However, I will inquire into these complaints.”Santosh Tandale, civic officer incharge of the centre, said, “Most of the patients are asymptomatic and would be discharged in just ten days. The patients did not want to stay here and so they are making these excuses. The garbage in the video had not been stacked for days, but were food packets from the same morning which were not cleared. We cleaned it in the evening. The sanitation staff regularly cleans the centre, but some of the patients want to be shifted to the Nicmar facility at Balewadi as some of their relatives are there, but it is full. Hence, they are raising these issues here. We have arranged for some counselling sessions to help them understand the issue and they will be discharged in ten days as most of them are asymptomatic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/after-video-of-dirty-unhygienic-isolation-centre-in-pune-goes-online-administration-swings-into-action-and-cleans-up-act/story-Zx5DZjmNStwZox66rEc5XP.html
28-05-2020||Pune||Maharashtra govt permits demolition of two flyovers in Pune||PUNE The Maharashtra government on Tuesday issued the final orders for the demolition of two flyovers in Pune to facilitate work on the high capacity mass transit route (HCMTR).The two flyovers at Ganeshkhind near Savitribai Phue Pune University (SPPU) chowk will be demolished as per order issued by the State urban development department to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pune Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (PMRDA).The two integrated flyovers with three exits were constructed in 2006 at a cost of RS 150 crore. The new flyover will cost around Rs 240 crore which will be shared by the PMC and PMRDA, said city engineer Vivek Kharwadkar. The PMC’s standing committee followed by the general body would need to approve this demolition order, after which the process will start.A 1.5 km long new flyover will be built in its place with an alignment to the Shivajinagar–Hinjewadi Metro rail corridor and the High Capacity Mass Transit Route (HCMTR) project. The old flyover for vehicles had exits to Baner, Pashan and Aundh. Giving details, Kharwadkar, said, the existing flyover did not address the traffic jam issues and the difficulties faced by pedestrians at the SPPU chowk. “We are now going to make a new development plan for the new flyover of 1.5 km in which public transport and pedestrian movement will be given highest importance. The vehicular movement towards Aundh and Pashan will also be smooth,” he said.Kharwadkar said that the state government has advised that the demolition and construction of the new flyover be undertaken by Tata –Siemens.The government’s decision to demolish the flyover and construct a new one in its place was criticised by traffic and transportation activist Sujit Patwardhan, founder of the voluntary organisation, Parisar. “We have written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray about our concerns on building this new flyover,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-govt-permits-demolition-of-two-flyovers-in-pune/story-JpZ33vPEpuzoU5HxJjtwMM.html
28-05-2020||Pune||Four minors among eight held for caterer’s murder in Pune||Four minors were among eight people held on Tuesday for the murder of a caterer in Yerawada area of Pune on Monday.The deceased was identified as Pratik Hanumant Vannale, 27, a resident of Panchasheel nagar area of Yerawada, Pune. He was a caterer in the area.Four among the eight people booked in the case were identified as Rahul, Tayyab Shaikh, all residents of Dhanori area of Pune, and Amin Javed Shaikh, and Bachu, both residents of Yerawada area of Pune. The four others are minors.“The adults were remanded to five days in police custody and the minors were sent to observation home by the juvenile justice board,” said police inspector Ajay Waghmare of Yerawada police station who is investigating the case.The incident happened on Monday night, the deceased had been in a fight with one of the minor hours before he was killed. With a grudge about the fight, the teenager gathered seven others around 8pm on Monday and attacked Vannale with fists, kicks, and an axe due to which he sustained fatal injuries.“They had a fight that afternoon after their vehicles brushed against each other. We are investigating whether there were other reasons that led to the murder,” said PI Waghmare.A complaint in the matter was lodged by the deceased man’s father Hanumant Vannale, 52, who drives a rickshaw.A case under sections 302 (murder), rioting, 188, 269, 323 of Indian penal code along with section 3 of epidemic diseases act, 1897, section 11 of Maharashtra Covid-19 regulation, 2020, and section 51(b) of disaster management act, 2005 was registered at Yerawada police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/caterer-killed-in-yerawada-4-minors-among-8-held/story-29BKMeXKInInIU1LMNMvkJ.html
28-05-2020||Pune||Four arrested for assaulting family in Pune||Pune: Four persons were arrested by Pimpri-Chinchwad police for assaulting members of a family that asked them to not create ruckus during late hours of the night in the Sangramnagar area of Nigdi. The arrested were identified as Manthan Gaikwad, 21, Nana Gaikwad, 34, Nava Kamble, 19, and Lakhan Maske, 23, all residents of Sangramnagar slum area in Nigdi.A complaint was lodged by Siraj Balli Tamboli, 39, who also lives in the same area and is a native of Osmanabad.According to the complaint, a group of 4 people were screaming outside the house of the complainant around 11:30pm on Saturday. The complainant and his relatives came out to stop the four from screaming as their family members were sleeping.As the verbal spat turned violent, the complainant and four of his family members were allegedly beaten up by wooden rods and the back of a sickle.The accused were joined by at least 7 others who were also booked in the case.A rickshaw standing in front of the complainant’s house was also vandalised in the process.A case under Sections 326, 323 504, 427 188 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 37(1)(3) with 135 of Maharashtra Police Act along with Section 4(25) of Arms Act was registered at Nigdi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/four-arrested-for-assaulting-family-in-pune/story-ccpRvgaC6CsuychobBsgqI.html
28-05-2020||City||17-year-old farm labourer found murdered in Jagraon||A 17-year-old farm labourer was found murdered in the fields in Jagraon’s Punjabi Bagh area on Monday morning. Police suspect the teen was strangled to death as there were injury marks on his neck and a piece of rope was also found near the body. A case of murder has been registered against the unidentified accused at the Jagraon City police station.Police said the deceased hailed from Sundar Nagar of Odisha. He worked for a farmer on Kachha Malak road. The boy had started working there in February this year and used to live at the farmer’s house and work in his field.On Sunday morning, the teenager went somewhere and did not return. After failing to find him, the farmer filed a missing person’s complaint. Jagraon city station house officer (SHO), inspector Jagjit Singh said a villager spotted the body and alerted the police. The SHO added that it could be a case of old rivalry but they were looking at all angles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/17-year-old-farm-labourer-found-murdered-in-jagraon/story-r6Nr05vSzRvuTWQOQLX89O.html
28-05-2020||World||Minor breach, no action: UK cops on PM Boris aide||Downing Street on Thursday termed the row over the prime minister’s chief adviser Dominic Cummings as ‘closed’ after the Durham police said he ‘might have’ broken some lockdown rules during his controversial trip there when the official advice was to stay home. The row, which dominated public discourse for several days, appeared to lose much momentum after Prime Minister Boris Johnson consistently backed his aide despite over 40 Conservative MPs and others demanding his resignation.The Durham police said there was no breach in Cummings travelling from London to Durham in end-March when he and his wife had coronavirus symptoms, but their later trip from Durham to Barnard Castle would have been a “minor breach”.In the UK’s criminal justice system, the police usually uses terms such as ‘might have’ to express opinion in a case, since bringing charges and reaching a conviction are a matter for the Crown Prosecution Service and the courts.The police said in a lengthy statement: “Durham Constabulary have examined the circumstances surrounding the journey to Barnard Castle…and have concluded that there might have been a minor breach of the Regulations that would have warranted police intervention”.“Durham Constabulary view this as minor because there was no apparent breach of social distancing. Had a Durham Constabulary police officer stopped Cummings driving to or from Barnard Castle, the officer would have spoken to him, and, having established the facts, likely advised Cummings to return to the address in Durham, providing advice on the dangers of travelling during the pandemic crisis”.“Had this advice been accepted by Cummings, no enforcement action would have been taken...Therefore Durham Constabulary will take no further action in this matter and has informed Cummings of this decision”.Critics interpreted the statement as substantiating Cummings breaching rules, and reiterated their demand that he resign or be dismissed.However, the prime minister’s spokesperson said: “The police have made clear they are taking no action against Cummings over his self-isolation and that going to Durham did not breach the regulations. The prime minister has said he believes Cummings behaved reasonably and legally given all the circumstances and he regards this issue as closed.”Labour leader Keir Starmer said: “I’ve seen what Durham Police have said. Obviously that, on the face of it, is inconsistent with what the prime minister said. And that presents him with a problem. But, frankly, he’s too weak to do anything about it”.He added: “I don’t think he’s going to do anything because he cannot, it seems, continue without his adviser”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/minor-breach-no-action-uk-cops-on-pm-boris-aide/story-5iYHyIk4sdfHl5Liljcq1M.html
28-05-2020||World||UK mulls citizenship offer over Hong Kong security law||Foreign secretary Dominic Raab and home secretary Priti Patel are exploring options to grant full citizenship to people in Hong Kong who have ‘British National (Overseas)’ status as one of the responses to Beijing imposing a security law in the former British colony.The announcement came soon after a joint statement by the UK, US, Canada and Australia expressing “deep concern” over the new law that has prompted clashes in Hong Kong.The BNO status is not full British citizenship. The status is for people who were a British overseas territories citizen by connection with Hong Kong before the handover to China on July 1, 1997. Certain rights and freedoms were to be ensured under the handover agreement within the ‘one country, two systems’ framework.Raab said: “Currently they (BNO passport holders) only have the right to come to the UK for six months. If China continues down this path and implements this national security legislation we will change that status, and we will remove that six-month limit and allow those BNO passport holders to come to the UK and to apply to work and study for extendable periods of 12 months and that would itself provide a pathway to future citizenship”.“If they implement and apply this national security legislation in the terms that have been described, we will change the BNO passport holder status and the arrangements for them in the way that I’ve just described”, he added.Patel tweeted: “Deeply concerned at China’s proposals for legislation to national security in Hong Kong. If imposed, @DominicRaab & I will explore options for a path to citizenship for BNO passport holders. UK will continue to defend the rights & freedoms of the people of Hong Kong”.The four-country joint statement by Raab, Australian foreign minister Marise Payne, Canadian foreign minister François-Philippe Champagne, and US secretary of state Michael Pompeo said: “Hong Kong has flourished as a bastion of freedom. The international community has a significant and long-standing stake in Hong Kong’s prosperity and stability”.“Direct imposition of national security legislation on Hong Kong by the Beijing authorities, rather than through Hong Kong’s own institutions as provided for under Article 23 of the Basic Law, would curtail the Hong Kong people’s liberties, and in doing so, dramatically erode Hong Kong’s autonomy and the system that made it so prosperous”. They added that China’s decision to impose the new law on Hong Kong was in direct conflict with its international obligations under the principles of the legally-binding, UN-registered Sino-British Joint Declaration.The four foreign ministers said: “The world’s focus on a global pandemic requires enhanced trust in governments and international cooperation. Beijing’s unprecedented move risks having the opposite effect”.“As Hong Kong’s stability and prosperity are jeopardised by the new imposition, we call on the Government of China to work with the Hong Kong SAR Government and the people of Hong Kong to find a mutually acceptable accommodation that will honour China’s international obligations under the UN-filed Sino-British Joint Declaration.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-mulls-citizenship-offer-over-hong-kong-security-law/story-RKUWMZY6AsaaYghFqPVvrN.html
28-05-2020||World||Trump calls Covid epidemic a ‘bad gift’ from China as toll in US crosses 100,000||President Donald Trump finally acknowledged on Thursday that US Covid-19 toll had surpassed 100,000, calling it a “sad milestone” almost 20 hours late, and promptly proceeded to blame it on China, saying the coronavirus behind it was a “very bad gift from China”.Trump had been noticeably quiet on the toll as he tweeted and retweeted about an upcoming executive order on social media, about his political rivals, ongoing legal case involving his first national security adviser Michael Flynn, and his predecessor President Barack Obama.“We have just reached a very sad milestone with the coronavirus pandemic deaths reaching 100,000,” he wrote in a tweet Thursday, hours after the Johns Hopkins University tracker marked the crossing.In a tweet minutes after, the president wrote, “All over the World the CoronaVirus, a very bad “gift” from China, marches on. Not good!”President Trump and his Republican allies have sought to shift all of the blame for the epidemic including the devastation caused in the United States by this administration’s delayed and botched response, on China, where the first infections occurred last December. Approval ratings of the president’s handling of the crisis have been declining steadily.The toll had risen to 100,467 by Thursday morning (much earlier, according to some trackers), with 1,505 deaths in the last 24 hours, marking a return to four-digit toll after days. Infections rose by 18,263 to reach 1.7 million. The United State accounts for around a third of both the infections and fatalities worldwide.The epidemic has continued to take a heavy toll on the US economy with 2.1 million more American filings for unemployment benefits, according to new data released by the US department of labor. The total of jobs lost due to the Covid-19 lockdown is now up to 41 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-calls-covid-epidemic-a-bad-gift-from-china-as-toll-in-us-crosses-100-000/story-3HrJ3cWOe2KdSyqG0NFMQO.html
28-05-2020||World||Big day for social media fairness, says Trump on upcoming executive order||President Donald Trump is expected to sign an executive order later Thursday that would roll back immunity enjoyed by social media platforms such as Twitter, Youtube and Facebook for content posted on their websites, according to multiple US media reports.“This will be a Big Day for Social Media and FAIRNESS!” the president wrote in a tweet Thursday, reconfirming a White House announcement from Wednesday of the upcoming order. But he shared no details.The order is chiefly expected to allow federal regulators to rethink a law — Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act from 1998 — that absolves social media platforms of all responsibility or accountability for content posted on their websites, unlike a news publication. The law leaves it to the companies to regulate, or not regulate, their published content.The executive order is also expected to provide for the Federal Communication Commission, an independent body currently headed by Trump-nominee Ajit Pai, an Indian American, to receive and review complaints of political bias of these platforms.Lastly, the order is expected to prohibit federal ad-spendings on platforms found in violation.Unidentified Trump administration official who spoke selectively to US news publications cautioned that the order was still a draft and could change.And experts have said the order is very likely to be challenged and in courts and may not survive.Trump and other Republicans have for long been calling for action against tech companies for a while now alleging they are unfairly targeted for censoring. The administration has had several iterations of the order that could finally be out later Thursday as signaled by the president.Trump has been in a twitter-rage sinceMay 26 when Twitter deployed a rarely used tool to fact-check two linked posts by him mail-in ballots. “Mail boxes will be robbed, ballots will be forged & even illegally printed out & fraudulently signed.,” the president wrote, reiterating his opposition to a voting tool he himself used in the 2018 elections.Twitter fact-checked the post, and the linked post.“Twitter is completely stifling FREE SPEECH, and I, as President, will not allow it to happen!” Trump raged in a tweet, accusing the social media company of interfering in the 2020 presidential election. “We will strongly regulate, or close them down, before we can ever allow this to happen,” he wrote in a tweet on Thursday, and fired one more later in the day, alleging, “Big Tech is doing everything in their very considerable power to CENSOR in advance of the 2020 Election.”.Jack Dorsey, the Twitter CEO, is not backing down, not yet. “We’ll continue to point out incorrect or disputed information about elections globally. And we will admit to and own any mistakes we make,” he wrote on twitter Thursday night, and added, taking a swipe at Mark Zuckerberg, the Facebook CEO, “This does not make as un ‘arbiter of truth’.”Zuckerberg, who has faced questions about content on Facebook, specially fake news, had told Fox News in a pre-recorded interview that private companies shouldn’t be the “arbiter of truth”. Trump had retweeted a post of Zuckerberg’s quote from the interview.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/big-day-for-social-media-fairness-says-trump-of-upcoming-executive-order/story-LlpZwlIF2YAT3c1EK4g7BN.html
28-05-2020||World||Prince Charles condoles deaths, damage due to cyclone Amphan||The Prince of Wales on Thursday sent a condolence message to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the death and destruction caused by the Storm Amphan in West Bengal and Odisha, his office said. The two states were particularly hit by the storm that also affected neighbouring Bangladesh. Prince Charles addressed a similar message to the Bangladesh Prime Minister, Sheikh Hasina.The message to Modi says: “My wife and I wanted you to know how deeply saddened we are by the loss of life and appalling devastation you and all the people of West Bengal and Odisha have suffered as a result of Storm Amphan”.“We feel so much for you and your people that you have had to endure such a disaster at the same time as having to contend with the Covid-19 pandemic. Our hearts go out to all those who have been bereaved and to those whose homes have been destroyed”.“However inadequate it may be at such a very difficult time, we did just want to assure you that all those affected are in our thoughts and special prayers”, he wrote.Prince Charles, heir to the throne, tested positive for the virus in March and recovered after a period of self-isolation in the Balmoral Castle Scotland.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/prince-charles-condoles-deaths-damage-due-to-cyclone-amphan/story-l0i5SvAyo0qiaXl7blDEqJ.html
28-05-2020||World||Donald Trump marks grim milestone of 100,000 US coronavirus deaths on Twitter||U.S. President Donald Trump marked the coronavirus pandemic milestone of 100,000 U.S. deaths in a Twitter post on Thursday, a day after the threshold was reached and his silence noted.“We have just reached a very sad milestone with the coronavirus pandemic deaths reaching 100,000. To all of the families & friends of those who have passed, I want to extend my heartfelt sympathy & love for everything that these great people stood for & represent. God be with you!” Trump said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-marks-100-000-us-coronavirus-deaths-milestone-on-twitter/story-diD7TqNOgpQuHN5F0o3opO.html
28-05-2020||World||Moderna extends lipids deal to boost Covid-19 vaccine candidate output||Moderna Inc has extended a deal to secure large volumes of the lipids used to produce its experimental COVID-19 vaccine as the U.S. biotech looks to build capacity and produce enough doses to meet expected global demand.The company on Thursday signed an agreement with Swiss firm CordenPharma for the supply of large-scale volumes of lipid excipients used to produce its vaccine candidate.There are currently no approved treatments or vaccines for COVID-19, and experts predict a safe and effective vaccine could take 12 to 18 months from the start of development.Vaccines are seen by world leaders as the only real way to restart their economies after months of lockdowns. However, there is a growing concern that some nations, including the United States, could seek to hoard a successful candidate as initial manufacturing capacity is unlikely to be sufficient to meet global demand.Moderna said last week that its vaccine candidate, the first to be tested in the United States, produced protective antibodies in a small group of healthy volunteers, offering a glimmer of hope for a vaccine among the most advanced in development.“This expansion will increase supply of lipid excipients used to manufacture our mRNA products,” Moderna’s chief technical operations and quality officer, Juan Andres, said.Moderna plans to supply millions of doses per month in 2020 and tens of millions a month in 2021 if the vaccine proves successful.The company has signed a 10-year deal with Swiss contract drug manufacturer Lonza to help speed up manufacturing the vaccine with the aim to reach up to a billion doses annually.Moderna’s shares were up 2% before the bell on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moderna-extends-lipids-deal-to-boost-covid-19-vaccine-candidate-output/story-PDbdBrrmoaleHZThBv7w9H.html
28-05-2020||World||Gunmen kill 60 in northwest Nigeria attacks||Armed criminals killed 60 people in a string of attacks on villages in the restive northwest of Nigeria, medics and residents said Thursday. Dozens of gunmen riding motorcycles raided five villages in Sabon Birni district in Sokoto state late Wednesday, the sources told AFP. Two medics from the local hospital said 60 bodies with bullet wounds had been brought to the facility following the attacks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gunmen-kill-60-in-northwest-nigeria-attacks/story-bTu4v7y6uweVgOHn8HLSPO.html
28-05-2020||World||Covid-19: UK launches ‘test and trace’ system to ease lockdown||Keen to reopen parts of the economy, the Boris Johnson government on Thursday launched its next phase of response to the coronavirus pandemic: a ‘test and trace’ system that involves thousands of tracers tracking down people to limit the spread of the virus.The system was launched in England but will not be fully operational until the end of June. It is intended to help lift blanket lockdown restrictions and move towards more localised and targeted measures, as the UK’s death toll reached 37,460 and 267,240 cases as of Wednesday.Scotland and Northern Ireland have similar systems, while Wales is due to launch its version in early June.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageHealth secretary Matt Hancock said: “As we move to the next stage of our fight against coronavirus, we will be able to replace national lockdowns with individual isolation and, if necessary, local action where there are outbreaks”.“NHS Test and Trace will be vital to stopping the spread of the virus. It is how we will be able to protect our friends and family from infection…This new system will help us keep this virus under control while carefully and safely lifting the lockdown nationally”.Under the system, tracers will text, email or call people who test positive with coronavirus and ask who they have had contact with. Any of those contacts deemed at risk of infection will be told to isolate for 14 days, even if they are not sick.Those who have already had the virus will also be asked to self-isolate. People identified as having been in close contact with someone who has a positive test will need to stay at home for 14 days, even if they do not have symptoms, to stop unknowingly spreading the virus.The system includes 25,000 dedicated contact tracing staff with the capacity to trace the contacts of 10,000 people who test positive for coronavirus per day, officials said.“The rollout of the NHS Test and Trace service has been made possible by the rapid expansion of testing. The largest network of diagnostic testing facilities in British history has been created and will soon have the capacity to carry out 200,000 tests a day. This includes 50 drive-through sites, more than 100 mobile testing units and three mega laboratories” they added.The system also includes an app that is currently under trial in the Isle of Wight and is expected to be rolled out elsewhere in the coming weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-uk-launches-test-and-trace-system-to-ease-lockdown/story-BQFBPLh0feh2WhF4Ees8yM.html
28-05-2020||World||China passes controversial Hong Kong security law, tightens grip over former British colony||China on Thursday passed a new security legislation for Hong Kong that makes any show of dissidence against the mainland a crime and for the first time paves the way for Beijing to install its own security agencies in the protest-wracked city.Critics of the new law and several western countries, most prominently the US, have said it essentially ends the unique system of governance under the “one country, two systems” mechanism which governed Hong Kong since the British handed it over to China in 1997.The writing in of the new security law into Hong Kong’s special charter, or Basic Law, will see the mainland’s control over the SAR tighten substantially.The city has seen violent protests since last June on that very issue: Beijing’s apparent tightening of control over the city and its impact on freedoms including that of free speech and expression.“The move came after prolonged social unrest and escalating street violence had plunged Hong Kong into the gravest situation since its return to the motherland in 1997,” official news agency, Xinhua reported, referring to the protests.The National People’s Congress (NPC), China’s rubber-stamp Parliament, passed the bill with 2878 votes in favour on Thursday, the last day of its delayed and shortened annual meeting; one voted against it and six abstained.Leading Chinese politicians have stoutly defended the bill.Addressing his annual press conference at the end of the NPC, Premier Li Keqiang on Thursday said that the approval of “…Hong Kong national security legislation aims for HK’s prosperity”.Li said the law would be good for Hong Kong’s long-term stability and prosperity and the “one country, two systems” formula would remain a national policy“It will uphold and improve the ‘one country, two systems’ policy,” NPC chairperson Li Zhanshu told delegates during the closing ceremony.“It is in line with the constitution and Hong Kong’s Basic Law and is in the interest of all Chinese people including Hong Kong people,” he added.Full details of the law are yet to be made public but it criminalises secession, subversion, terrorism and activities by foreign forces that interfere in Hong Kong.The bill says that “when needed, relevant national security organs of the Central People’s Government will set up agencies in Hong Kong to fulfil relevant duties to safeguard national security in accordance with the law”.Hong Kong’s Beijing-backed leader Carrie Lam said her government would work with Beijing to complete the legislative work as soon as possible, according to agency reports from the city.“The law will not affect the rights and freedoms enjoyed by Hong Kong residents,” she said in a statement welcoming the Chinese parliament’s vote.The new legislation is set to worsen relations between China and the US.“Already, international business is facing the pressure of increased tension between the U.S. and China, but the enactment of China’s security law for Hong Kong could take the tension to a whole new level,” Tara Joseph, president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong wrote in a commentary for the South China Morning Post newspaper.“This is show time for Hong Kong,” she wrote.“This is the death knell for Hong Kong, make no mistake of it, this is the end of ‘one country, two systems’, the Hong Kong that we loved, a free Hong Kong,” pro-democracy lawmaker from Hong Kong Dennis Kwok was quoted by agencies as telling reporters on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-passes-controversial-hong-kong-security-law-tightens-grip-over-former-british-colony/story-XlAIJV8C83ROUmETdgLTNL.html
28-05-2020||World||Spike in European deaths since March linked to Covid-19, says WHO official||About 159,000 more people in 24 European countries have died since early March than would have ordinarily been expected, a World Health Organization official said on Thursday, adding a “significant proportion” of the spike is linked to Covid-19. “What we have seen very clearly is that the peak in excess mortality corresponds in those countries to the peak of the transmission of Covid-19,” Katie Smallwood, a WHO emergency official, told reporters. “This gives us a very good indication that a very significant proportion of this excess deaths is linked and due to Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spike-in-european-deaths-since-march-linked-to-covid-19-says-who-official/story-OeGdDaU1Q7ehXVjtb9G0UO.html
28-05-2020||World||China parliament approves Hong Kong security bill as tensions with US rise||China’s parliament approved a decision on Thursday to go forward with national security legislation for Hong Kong that democracy activists in the city and Western countries fear could erode its freedoms and jeopardise its role as a global financial hub.China says the legislation will aim to tackle secession, subversion, terrorism and foreign interference in the city but the plan, unveiled in Beijing last week, triggered the first big protests in Hong Kong for months.Riot police were out in force in Hong Kong as its lawmakers debated another piece of legislation, a bill to criminalise disrespect of China’s national anthem, while the United States piled on pressure aimed at preserving the city’s autonomy.Dozens of protesters gathered in a shopping mall to chant slogans but there was no repeat of disturbances the previous day when police made 360 arrests as thousands took to the streets in anger over the anthem bill and the national security legislation proposed by China.Last year, the city was rocked for months by often violent pro-democracy demonstrations over an unsuccessful bid to introduce a law governing extradition to China.The Chinese government’s security law for the city is fuelling fear in Hong Kong and beyond that Beijing is imposing its authority and eroding the high degree of autonomy the former British colony has enjoyed under a “one country, two systems” formula since it returned to Chinese rule in 1997.Members of China’s mostly rubberstamp parliament, the National People’s Congress, in the Great Hall of the People to the west of Beijing’s Tiananmen Square, burst into prolonged applause when the tally showed 2,878 votes to one in favour of moving forward with legislation, with six abstentions.Details of the law are expected to be drawn up in coming weeks. It is expected to be enacted before September. Chinese authorities and the Beijing-backed government in Hong Kong say there is no threat to the city’s autonomy and the new law would be tightly focused.China’s Premier Li Keqiang said the law would be good for Hong Kong’s long-term stability and prosperity and the “one country, two systems” formula would remain a national policy.Conflict between China and the United States would harm both sides while both stood to gain from cooperation, he told a news conference.Hong Kong’s Beijing-backed leader Carrie Lam said her government would work with Beijing to complete the legislative work as soon as possible.“The law will not affect the rights and freedoms enjoyed by Hong Kong residents,” she said in a statement welcoming the Chinese parliament’s vote.Democracy campaigners in the city were despondent, however.“This is the death knell for Hong Kong, make no mistake of it, this is the end of ‘one country, two systems’ ... the Hong Kong that we loved, a free Hong Kong,” pro-democracy lawmaker Dennis Kwok told reporters.‘SHOW TIME’The United States, Britain and the European Union have also expressed concern about the security legislation and its implications for China’s freest city.U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said on Wednesday Hong Kong no longer qualified for special treatment under U.S. law, potentially dealing a crushing blow to its status as a major financial hub.The proposed security law was “only the latest in a series of actions” undermining Hong Kong freedoms, he told Congress.“No reasonable person can assert today that Hong Kong maintains a high degree of autonomy from China, given facts on the ground,” he said. The security law could see Chinese intelligence agencies set up bases in the city.Relations between the two countries have been tense over China’s claims in the South China Sea and trade, with the coronavirus pandemic adding to the acrimony.“Already, international business is facing the pressure of increased tension between the U.S. and China, but the enactment of China’s security law for Hong Kong could take the tension to a whole new level,” said Tara Joseph, president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong.“This is show time for Hong Kong,” she said in a commentary in the South China Morning Post.U.S. President Donald Trump has promised action over Hong Kong, with an announcement at the end of the week. More than 1,300 U.S. companies have offices in the city, providing about 100,000 jobs.China said it would take necessary countermeasures against foreign interference in what it insists are its internal affairs.Hong Kong stocks underperformed most of Asia, closing down 0.7%.Trump’s possible response could include visa and economic sanctions, David Stilwell, the State Department’s assistant secretary for East Asia, told reporters. (Reporting by Jessie Pang, Anne Marie Roantree, Donny Kwok, Noah Sin, Clare Jim, Sarah Wu; Writing by Michael Perry and Marius Zaharia; Editing by Stephen Coates, Robert Birsel)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-parliament-approves-hong-kong-security-bill-as-tensions-with-us-rise/story-3sGoW4WTr0HFfwFV4rGP5H.html
28-05-2020||World||UK PM appoints Indian-origin academic as Natural History Museum Trustee||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has appointed Indian-origin academic Yadvinder Malhi as a new Trustee of the Natural History Museum in London.The 52-year-old expert will take on the unpaid advisory role for a period of four years until May 2024. Malhi is a professor of Ecosystem Science at the University of Oxford, Jackson Senior Research Fellow in Biodiversity and Conservation at Oriel College, Oxford, and the director of the Oxford Centre for Tropical Forests and the Oxford University Biodiversity Network. “I have been enthralled by the Natural History Museum since my first visits as a child, and I am delighted to be now joining it as a Trustee. I believe no entity in the UK better celebrates the magnificence of the natural world,” he said.“I am particularly excited in helping the Museum become a leader and partner in helping address what I see as the great challenges of our time: tackling climate change and the restoration of the natural world, both within the United Kingdom and internationally. “The museum brings a wealth of scientific expertise, practical experience and public reach that has so much potential to make a really significant contribution to tackling these challenges,” he said.Malhi’s research interests have focused on the impacts of climate change and other types of change on the biosphere, and how the protection and restoration of the biosphere can contribute to mitigating and adapting to climate change, the Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS) said in a statement this week.“Much of his work has focussed on the tropics, and he has established a network of intensive study and monitoring of tropical ecosystems spanning Amazonia, Africa and Asia. “More locally, he has a strong interest in the many possible forms of ecosystem restoration in the UK and Europe, how such restoration can be scaled up, and how it can best contribute to biodiversity recovery and climate change goals,” DCMS said.Malhi, a former President of the Association for Tropical Biology and Conservation, Chair of Trustees of the Global Biodiversity Foundation and a Fellow of the Royal Society, has authored or co-authored over 400 scientific papers on ecosystems and climate change.His appointment has been made in accordance with the UK Cabinet Office’s Governance Code on Public Appointments, which requires that any significant political activity undertaken by an appointee in the last five years is declared. Malhi has not declared any political activity that would fall under holding office, public speaking, making a recordable donation or candidature for election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-pm-appoints-indian-origin-academic-as-natural-history-museum-trustee/story-1ku77wLT3xhhTbVxkFLNPL.html
28-05-2020||World||Two anti-inflammatory drugs found that may inhibit Covid-19 virus reproduction||Two anti-inflammatory drugs, one prescribed for humans and another for animals, may inhibit a key enzyme in the replication or reproduction of the novel coronavirus that causes Covid-19, according to a study. The study, published in the International Journal of Molecular Sciences, used computer techniques to analyse 6,466 drugs authorised by various drug agencies for both human and veterinary use. The researchers from Universitat Rovira in Spain assessed whether these drugs could be used to inhibit the main protease of the virus (M-pro) enzyme, which plays an essential role in the replication of the virus. They found that a human and a veterinary anti-inflammatory drug -- Carprofen and Celecoxib -- inhibit a key enzyme in the replication and transcription of the virus responsible for COVID-19. Finding drugs that can inhibit the infection caused by SARS-CoV-2 is an essential step to finding the vaccine that can definitively bring the spread of the virus to an end, according to the researchers. M-pro enzyme is responsible for cutting two polypeptides -- generated by the virus itself -- and generating a number of proteins that are essential for the reproduction of the virus, the researchers said. Some of the trials coordinated by the World Health Organization against the COVID-19 pandemic also aim to inhibit M-pro using two antiretrovirals such as Lopinavir and Ritonavir, drugs initially designed to treat HIV, they said. In the new study, the researchers predicted that seven of the 6,466 drugs analysed may inhibit M-pro. The results have been shared with the international initiative of scientists, COVID Moonshot, which has selected two of these seven compounds -- Carprofen and Celecoxib -- in order to test their ability to inhibit M-pro in vitro, they said. The findings show that at a concentration of 50 micromolar (μM) of Celecoxib or Carprofen, the inhibition of the in vitro activity of M-pro enzyme is 11.90 and 4.0 per cent, respectively. Both molecules could be used as a starting point for further lead optimisation to obtain even more potent derivatives, the researchers said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/two-anti-inflammatory-drugs-found-that-may-inhibit-covid-19-virus-reproduction/story-5ghoq1cfLDEGsFVJBnbjHP.html
28-05-2020||World||86 million children could be pushed into household poverty by end of 2020 due to Covid-19: Report||The number of children living in poor households across low and middle-income countries could increase by 86 million to reach 672 million by the end of 2020 due to the economic fallout of the coronavirus pandemic, according to a new study.The deadly virus has so far infected 5,695,290 people and claimed 355,692 lives globally, according to a tally by the Johns Hopkins University.“The economic fallout of the COVID-19 pandemic could push up to 86 million more children into household poverty by the end of 2020, an increase of 15 per cent,” said the study conducted jointly by the UNICEF and humanitarian organisation Save the Children. The analysis highlighted that without urgent action to protect families from the financial hardships caused by the pandemic, the total number of children living below the national poverty line in low and middle-income countries could reach 672 million by year-end. Nearly two-thirds of these children live in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia and countries across Europe and Central Asia could see the most significant increase, up to 44 per cent across the region. Latin America and the Caribbean could see a 22 per cent increase.“The coronavirus pandemic has triggered an unprecedented socio-economic crisis that is draining resources for families all over the world,” UNICEF Executive Director Henrietta Fore said in a statement.“The scale and depth of financial hardship among families threatens to roll back years of progress in reducing child poverty and to leave children deprived of essential services. Without concerted action, families barely getting by could be pushed into poverty, and the poorest families could face levels of deprivation that have not been seen for decades,” Fore said.The organisations warned that the impact of the global economic crisis caused by the pandemic and related containment policies is two-fold -- immediate loss of income meant families are less able to afford the basics, including food and water, less likely to access health care or education, and more at risk of child marriage, violence, exploitation and abuse.Save the Children International CEO Inger Ashing said the “shocking poverty impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic will hit children hard.” “Children are highly vulnerable to even short periods of hunger and malnutrition — potentially affecting them for their whole life. If we act now and decisively, we can prevent and contain the pandemic threat facing the poorest countries and some of the most vulnerable children. This report should be a wake-up call for the world. Poverty is not inevitable for children,” Ashing said.The agencies said hundreds of millions of children remain multi-dimensionally poor -- meaning they lack access to health care, education, proper nutrition, or adequate housing -- often a reflection of inequitable investments by governments in social services. In order to address and mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on children in poor households, Save the Children and the UNICEF call for rapid and large-scale expansion of social protection systems and programmes including cash transfers, school feeding and child benefits – all critical investments that address immediate financial needs and lay the foundation for countries to prepare for future shocks.“Governments must also invest in other forms of social protection, fiscal policies, employment and labour market interventions to support families. This includes expanding universal access to quality healthcare and other services; and investing in family friendly policies, such as paid leave and childcare,” they said. PTI YAS SCY||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/86-million-children-could-be-pushed-into-household-poverty-by-end-of-2020-due-to-covid-19-report/story-douHRbRLh2hewntKYFryFP.html
28-05-2020||World||Afghan forces killed in first ‘Taliban attack’ since ceasefire end: Report||Seven members of the Afghan security forces were killed Thursday in an attack officials blamed on the Taliban, the first deadly assault since a three-day ceasefire ended. The militants attacked a checkpoint in Parwan, north of the capital, said Waheeda Shahkar, spokeswoman to the provincial governor.“The Taliban have also suffered casualties,” Shahkar added.District police chief Hussain Shah said Taliban fighters set fire to the checkpoint, killing five security force personnel. Two more were shot dead. The Taliban have not commented.It is the first attack that Afghan officials have blamed on the Taliban since the ceasefire -- held over the Eid al-Fitr festival -- ended on Tuesday night.According to Afghanistan’s Independent Human Rights Commission, civilian casualties fell by 80 percent during the temporary truce.A drop in violence has largely held since it ended on Tuesday night, although Afghan security forces carried out air strikes in the south on Wednesday that killed 18 “militants,” police said.The surprise truce offer from the Taliban and the lull in fighting has raised hopes that stalled peace negotiations between the insurgents and the Afghan government could begin soon.Afghan authorities have responded to the ceasefire by releasing some 1,000 insurgent prisoners this week, and plan to further free an equal number of inmates in the coming days.The Taliban have also said they plan to free a group of government prisoners.The exchange is part of a US-Taliban deal signed in February, which excluded the Afghan government, that stipulates Kabul would release up to 5,000 Taliban prisoners and the militants would free about 1,000 national security personnel.Kabul had already freed about 1,000 Taliban inmates before the ceasefire, while the insurgents had released about 300 government captives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-forces-killed-in-first-taliban-attack-since-ceasefire-end-report/story-XpucsZPDVoGh7T1K2PPFRN.html
28-05-2020||World||China will strive to achieve positive economic growth this year: Premier Li||China will strive to achieve positive economic growth this year, Premier Li Keqiang said on Thursday, adding that growth remained important even though the government had not set any target for the first time in years.China does not need a massive stimulus but liquidity will be increased because “exceptional situations call for exceptional measures”, Li said during his once-a-year news conference following the close of the annual meeting of parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-will-strive-to-achieve-positive-economic-growth-this-year-premier-li/story-DNx4LZ0mEnag3c1Vq3SIeM.html
28-05-2020||World||China approves Hong Kong’s security legislation, defying Donald Trump’s threat||Chinese lawmakers approved a proposal for sweeping new national security legislation in Hong Kong, defying a threat by US President Donald Trump to respond strongly to a measure that democracy advocates say will curb essential freedoms in the city.The National People’s Congress, China’s rubber-stamp legislature, approved the draft decision by a vote of 2,878-1 on Thursday at its annual session in Beijing, with six abstentions. Chinese officials could now take months to sort of the details of laws banning subversion, secession, terrorism and foreign interference before they’re given to Hong Kong’s Beijing-backed administration to promulgate.The move to bypass the semi-autonomous city’s local Legislative Council has alarmed Hong Kong’s pro-democracy activists and opposition politicians. It risks spawning yet more protests in the city and could potentially prompt companies to flee if the laws undermine the independent judiciary in the Asian financial hub.The Trump administration on Wednesday took the significant step of saying it could no longer certify Hong Kong’s autonomy from China, which was promised before the British handed the city back in 1997. The move could trigger a range of actions by the Trump administration, from sanctions on Chinese officials to revoking the city’s special trading status with the US.President Donald Trump, asked about the possible sanctions, said Tuesday his administration was “doing something now” that he would unveil this week. Business groups“Hong Kong does not continue to warrant treatment under United States laws in the same manner as US laws were applied to Hong Kong before July 1997,” Secretary of State Michael Pompeo said in announcing the decision. “No reasonable person can assert today that Hong Kong maintains a high degree of autonomy from China, given facts on the ground.”What Are the New Laws China Is Pushing for Hong Kong?: QuickTakeOther governments also expressed worries about the legislation. Japan said it was “seriously concerned” by the move, while Taiwan said it would release a plan to help Hong Kong residents if they wanted to leave the city.The plan to enact the national security legislation was first announced in Beijing late last week, with Chinese officials saying it was needed to stem sometimes-violent protests that hit the city last year. They argued that Hong Kong’s lawmakers had 23 years to pass the legislation, which is mandated under Hong Kong’s mini-constitution called the Basic Law.“All of the rights and freedoms enjoyed by Hong Kong people and international investors will remain unchanged,” Hong Kong’s government said in a statement on Wednesday. It said the laws wouldn’t erode the rule of law, an independent judiciary or freedom of expression.Hong Kong’s democracy camp isn’t convinced, however. While last year’s protests all but stopped during the pandemic, demonstrators came out multiple times since the announcement on the laws, defying police who are still limiting public gatherings. Some of them chanted for independence, a clear red line that Beijing has used to justify passing the laws.Hong Kong Police Overwhelm Protesters Now Crying ‘Independence’Jimmy Lai, a Hong Kong media tycoon and prominent pro-democracy activist, said the laws could push business away and eventually turn anyone who participates in a demonstration into a criminal.“It’s like a knife on top of our head,” Lai told Bloomberg Television. “Anytime it will come to our neck.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-approves-hong-kong-s-security-legislation-defying-donald-trump-s-threat/story-BrzUk0Nrke1CTK6ndtKcFI.html
28-05-2020||World||Pakistan uses militant-tracking tech to hunt virus||Pakistan’s intelligence services are deploying secretive surveillance technology normally used to locate militants to instead track coronavirus patients and the people they come into contact with.In a programme publicly touted by Prime Minister Imran Khan, the government has turned to the powerful Inter-Services Intelligence agency (ISI) for help in tackling the virus, which still is spreading at an accelerating rate across Pakistan.Details about the project have not been released, but two officials told AFP that intelligence services are using geo-fencing and phone-monitoring systems that ordinarily are employed to hunt high-value targets including homegrown and foreign militants.A lack of awareness, stigma and fear have contributed to some people with symptoms not seeking treatment or even fleeing hospitals, while others who’ve had contact with virus patients have flouted self-isolation rules.Speaking on condition of anonymity, a senior security official told AFP that agencies are now “quite effectively” using the technology to track coronavirus cases.“The government has been successful in tracing even those who tested positive but went into hiding,” the security official said.Geo-fencing, a discreet tracking system that alerts authorities when someone leaves a specific geographic area, has helped officials monitor neighbourhoods on lockdown.Authorities are also listening in to the calls of Covid-19 patients to monitor whether their contacts are talking about having symptoms.“The trace-and-track system basically helps us track the mobile phones of corona patients as well as anyone they get in touch with before of after their disappearance,” an intelligence official said.Khan recently praised the programme, which has come up against little public debate or scrutiny over its use in the virus fight. “It was originally used against terrorism, but now it is has come in useful against coronavirus,” he said.Nearly 60,000 people in Pakistan have tested positive for the disease and more than 1,200 patients have died. But with testing still limited, officials worry the true numbers are much higher.ConcernsPakistan’s intelligence services and military hold vast sway over many aspects of cultural and political life, with the US and India accusing Islamabad of backing insurgents fighting in Kashmir and Afghanistan -- claims denied by officials.Rights groups worry authorities might abuse their sweeping surveillance powers to trace political dissidents.Leading rights activist and ex-senator Afrasiab Khattak told AFP that involving the ISI would spread unnecessary fear among the population.“The task of tracking and tracing the patients and suspected cases should be dealt with by provincial governments and local communities -- let intelligence agencies do their actual job,” he said.Countries across the world have employed track-and-trace methods to control the virus’s spread, raising privacy concerns.Israel’s intelligence services have been using counter-terrorism technology, including tracking mobile phones, prompting the Supreme Court to raise privacy concerns.In Pakistan, authorities struggled to present a cohesive national strategy to control the coronavirus. Khan was reluctant to call for a sweeping lockdown, arguing the impoverished country could not afford it. He also largely caved to pressure from Pakistan’s powerful religious lobby, which pushed back against the closure of mosques.Many Pakistanis have simply ignored provincial lockdown orders and Khan has allowed businesses to reopen in phases, citing the economic impact on daily wage earners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-uses-militant-tracking-tech-to-hunt-virus/story-RMdeSrsF5LsRPUSziNm73H.html
28-05-2020||World||Disney may reopen Walt Disney World starting on July 11 if governor approves||Walt Disney Co plans to reopen the world’s largest theme park, Walt Disney World, in phases beginning on July 11, if the governor of Florida approves.Disney wants to reopen Magic Kingdom and Animal Kingdom on July 11 and Epcot and Hollywood Studios on July 15, according to Jim MacPhee, senior vice president of operations for the Walt Disney World Resort, who presented plans during a webcast meeting.The successful reopening of its parks is a signal event for Disney and the rest of the world as governments and companies strategize how to move out of lockdown while the novel coranavirus is still a threat.After MacPhee’s presentation, an Orange County task force OK’d the plan, sending it to Florida Governor Ron DeSantis for final approval.When the Disney parks reopen, guests and employees will be required to wear masks and undergo temperature checks. The resort will suspend parades, fireworks displays and other activities that create crowds. It will “enable and encourage” contactless payment systems, and expand its existing mobile order systems in restaurants.Disney plans to restrict the number of guests, who will be required to reserve their park passes ahead of time. Park guests will be greeted by signs such as “HELP US PROTECT THE MAGIC PLEASE LIMIT HANDLING OF THE PRODUCT, IF ASSISTANCE IS NEEDED, PLEASE ASK A CAST MEMBER.” Starting in January, Disney closed theme parks around the world to help curb the spread of the novel coronavirus.On Wednesday, Disney Chief Executive Officer Robert Chapek told CNBC the company currently has about 20,000 people per day visiting Shanghai Disneyland, which reopened on May 11 with mandatory masks, temperature screenings and social distancing for visitors and employees. Disney will soon reveal plans for reopening its Anaheim, California, Disneyland amusement park, the company’s original themed attraction, according to a company spokeswoman.Welcoming visitors again to its parks is key to Disney’s recovery from the global shutdowns sparked by the pandemic. Disney has estimated it lost $1 billion (816.2 million pounds) at its theme parks division from January through March.Disney’s four Walt Disney World theme parks attracted 157.3 million visitors in 2018, according to the Themed Entertainment Association trade group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/disney-may-reopen-walt-disney-world-starting-on-july-11-if-governor-approves/story-5D75iBcUWSNwdpWl24MvWM.html
28-05-2020||World||GSK to produce 1 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccine booster in 2021||GlaxoSmithKline Plc will expand production of vaccine efficacy boosters, or adjuvants, to produce 1 billion doses in 2021 for use in shots for Covid-19, the British drugmaker said on Thursday.The London-listed company said it was in talks with governments on backing for the programme, which would effectively allow for a scaling up of production of future successful vaccines for the disease caused by the novel coronavirus.GSK is one of several companies in the race to develop a vaccine for the respiratory illness that currently has no treatment and has already killed about 350,000 people.The British drugmaker is working on its own Covid vaccine with Sanofi.Adjuvants have been shown to create a stronger and longer-lasting immunity against infections.GSK’s adjuvant can reduce the amount of vaccine protein required per dose, which would allow for more vaccines to be made, the British drugmaker said.Experts have predicted that a successful vaccine will take over a year to develop, and companies and governments are pouring money into dozens of programmes as the only viable solution that will allow the world to escape durably from coronavirus lockdowns and get economies moving again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gsk-to-produce-1-billion-doses-of-covid-19-vaccine-booster-in-2021/story-tHyCMQ7UtPUKcCggvPqBDN.html
28-05-2020||World||Tropical Storm Bertha forms, hits South Carolina coast, dissipates in a day||A tropical storm which made landfall at the eastern coast in the United States, dissipated in a day. Tropical Storm Bertha surprised the South Carolina coast on Wednesday, forming, making landfall within two hours and was downgraded before sundown, news agency AP reported.Forecasters expected the bad weather, but didn’t predict it to organise so quickly and become the second named storm before the official start of this year’s Atlantic hurricane season.Bertha was named around 8 am on Wednesday and was onshore east of Charleston by 9:30 am. The state Department of Natural Resources called it “a sunrise surprise”. Six hours after the tropical storm formed, the National Hurricane Centre downgraded it to a depression well inland.They said Bertha was no longer a tropical depression at 5 pm and stopped issuing advisories.Bertha, however, did cause headache for NASCAR. The rain accompanying the tropical storm forced the postponement of its Cup Series race. The Alsco Uniforms 500, a 208-lap race, was rescheduled for Thursday. It will be the fourth Cup Series race since NASCAR returned to action from a two-month coronavirus shutdown 10 days ago.Less than 1,000 power outages and scattered downed trees were reported as Bertha and its 80 kmph maximum sustained winds moved onshore and into eastern South Carolina.Bertha moved rapidly inland, spreading up to 4 inches (10 centimetres) of rain into parts of North Carolina and Virginia.This is the record sixth year in a row Atlantic storms have formed before the official June 1 start of the season.Last week, Tropical Storm Arthur had formed off the US east coast before veering out to sea causing little damage. Most pre-season forecasts call for an over-active Atlantic season surpassing the long-term average of 12 systems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tropical-storm-bertha-forms-hits-south-carolina-coast-dissipates-in-a-day/story-DYDJKb3rm4LhZIiQTQDreP.html
28-05-2020||World||‘He kicked the door open for so many’: Twitter pays tribute to Larry Kramer||Twitter is paying tribute to the pioneering New York AIDS activist Larry Kramer, who died on Wednesday. He was 84.Kramer’s angry voice and pen raised consciousness about AIDS and roused thousands to action. His art was often as blunt as his anger, but his dedication was unwavering.“He kicked the door open for so many,” American-Canadian actor Bruce Dow tweeted. He kicked the door open for so many - #Farewell #LarryKramer https://t.co/xIsf1rMBZp“Having met Mr. Kramer only once in Hollywood at a development meeting, there are so many #LarryKramer stories left to tell,” tweeted Benjamin DeLanty, a psychologist. Having met Mr. Kramer only once in Hollywood at a development meeting, there are so many #LarryKramer stories left to tell ⁦@Variety⁩ ⁦@THR⁩ ⁦@HarveyLevinTMZ⁩ https://t.co/WJeT3WuQnAAnother Twitter user Gabby recalled Kramer’s famous quote. “Some reporter called me ‘the angriest gay man in the world’ or some such. Well, it stuck, but I realized it was very useful.” Thank you Larry Kramer, for weaponizing your righteous anger and changing the world. We owe you so much,” she posted on Twitter. "Some reporter called me 'the angriest gay man in the world' or some such. Well, it stuck, but I realized it was very useful."Thank you Larry Kramer, for weaponizing your righteous anger and changing the world. We owe you so much. pic.twitter.com/JwyqejPIPMKramer’s early advocacy for a national response to AIDS as the disease first emerged in the 1980s. It helped raise awareness and shape healthcare policy into the 1990s.He co-founded the ACT UP movement that made AIDS a national issue in the United States.Kramer died of pneumonia after enduring illness for much of his life, including his own battle with AIDS, his close friend, Will Schwalbe, told news agency Reuters.Schwalbe, who was also Kramer’s literary executor, stressed that his friend’s death was not related to the Covid-19 pandemic.A critique of New York’s fun-forward gay community, it was his 1978 novel ‘Faggots,’ that established the man as a controversial, highly-opinionated figure and an occasional pariah. Kramer’s righteous anger became his calling card, causing him to be ostracised, and celebrated many years later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/he-kicked-the-door-open-for-so-many-twitter-pays-tribute-to-larry-kramer/story-vChLMOrfKC8CH34Y7JcsMN.html
28-05-2020||World||Judge sets June 4 hearing for suspects in Arbery slaying||A Georgia judge has scheduled a hearing next week for three men charged with murder in the fatal shooting of Ahmaud Arbery, court officials said Wednesday.Glynn County Magistrate Court Judge Wallace E. Harrell set a preliminary hearing for June 4, said court clerk Luetrice Lott. The judge will determine whether authorities had sufficient evidence to charge the men in Arbery’s death.Arbery was killed Feb. 23 when a white father and son armed themselves and pursued the 25-year-old black man after spotting him running in their neighborhood just outside the port city of Brunswick. More than two months passed before Gregory McMichael, 64, and Travis McMichael, 34, were arrested May 7 on charges of felony murder and aggravated assault.A neighbor of the McMichaels, 50-year-old William “Roddie” Bryan Jr., was charged last Thursday with felony murder and criminal attempt to commit false imprisonment. Bryan is the man whose cellphone video of the shooting, which leaked online two days before the McMichaels’ arrests, ignited a national outcry over the case.All three men remain jailed pending a bond hearing before a different judge.Defense attorneys for the McMichaels have urged people not to rush to judgment in the case. Gregory McMichael told police he suspected Arbery was a burglar and that Arbery attacked his son right before being shot. Arbery’s family has said he was merely out jogging.Bryan’s attorney, Kevin Gough, has insisted his client played no role in Arbery’s death. The arrest warrant for Bryan says he used a vehicle to illegally try to “confine and detain” Arbery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/judge-sets-june-4-hearing-for-suspects-in-arbery-slaying/story-3503Y1TCAbsCRq50VxsiBJ.html
28-05-2020||World||US Congress approves China sanctions over ethnic crackdown||Congress voted Wednesday to toughen the US response to a brutal Chinese crackdown on ethnic minorities, adding another factor to the increasingly stormy relationship between the two countries.The House passed a bipartisan bill that would impose sanctions on Chinese officials involved in the mass surveillance and detention of Uighurs and other ethnic groups in the western Xinjiang region, a campaign that has drawn muted international response because of China’s influence around the world.The measure already passed the Senate and needs a signature from President Donald Trump, who said this week he’ll “very strongly” consider it amid US anger over China’s handling of the coronavirus outbreak and tension over a Chinese plan to restrict civil liberties in Hong Kong.Both issues emerged, along with other sore points in the China-US relationship, as Republican and Democratic members of Congress spoke in support of the bill. No one spoke against it, and it passed by a 413-1 vote.“Beijing’s barbarous actions targeting the Uighur people are an outrage to the collective conscience of the world,” House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said in a floor speech in support of the bill.Also read: Gilgit and Xinjiang: Two tales of modern colonialism | OpinionIt was the first bill in history to pass with proxy votes after House Democrats, over Republican objections, adopted a measure allowing such votes in response to the coronavirus outbreak.Congress late last year voted to condemn the crackdown in Xinjiang, where Chinese authorities have detained more than a million people — from mostly Muslim ethnic groups that include Uighurs, Kazakhs and Kyrgyz — in a vast network of detention centers.This new legislation is intended to increase the pressure by imposing sanctions on specific Chinese officials, such as the Communist Party official who oversees government policy in Xinjiang.The legislation also requires the US government to report to Congress on violations of human rights in Xinjiang as well as China’s acquisition of technology used for mass detention and surveillance. It also provides for an assessment of the pervasive reports of harassment and threats of Uighurs and other Chinese nationals in the United States.A provision that would have imposed export restrictions on surveillance and other equipment used in the crackdown was initially passed in the House but then stripped out in the version that passed in the Senate earlier this month.Despite the limitations, the legislation amounts to the first concrete step by a government to penalize China over the treatment of the Uighurs since the existence of the mass internment camps became widely known in recent years, said Peter Irwin, a senior program officer at the Uighur Human Rights Project.“It signals that a member of the international community is actually taking some steps to address the problem,” Irwin said. “The legislation itself has to spur the rest of the international community, particularly the European Union and other powerful blocs of states, to actually take this as a template and pass their own legislation.”Rep. Michael McCaul, a Texas Republican and chairman of the House China Task Force, called what’s happening in Xinjiang a “cultural genocide” of Uighurs and other mostly Muslim ethnic groups.The passage of the bill with strong bipartisan support would “show the Chinese Communist Party and the entire world that their treatment of the Muslim Uighurs is inexcusable and will not be allowed without serious consequences,” McCaul said.China has publicly brushed away criticism of its crackdown in Xinjiang, which it launched in 2014 as the “Strike Hard Against Violent Extremism” campaign in a vast resource-rich territory whose inhabitants are largely distinct, culturally and ethnically, from the country’s Han Chinese majority.The Chinese government, when not bristling at criticism of what it sees as an internal matter, has also said the detention camps are vocational training centers. Uighur activists and human rights groups have countered that many of those held are people with advanced degrees and business owners who are influential in their communities and have no need of any special education.People held in the internment camps have described being subjected to forced political indoctrination, torture, beatings, denial of food and medicine and say they have been prohibited from practicing their religion or speaking their language. China has denied these accounts but refused to allow independent inspections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-congress-approves-china-sanctions-over-ethnic-crackdown/story-bEpSpR2WsIaNfLIxaCIXHK.html
28-05-2020||World||Trump to sign executive order on social media on Thursday: White House||US President Donald Trump will sign an executive order on social media companies on Thursday, White House officials said after Trump threatened to shut down websites he accused of stifling conservative voices.The officials gave no further details. It was unclear how Trump could follow through on the threat of shutting down privately owned companies including Twitter Inc.The dispute erupted after Twitter on Tuesday for the first time tagged Trump’s tweets about unsubstantiated claims of fraud in mail-in voting with a warning prompting readers to fact check the posts.Separately, a three-judge panel of the US Court of Appeals in Washington on Wednesday upheld the dismissal of a lawsuit by a conservative group and right-wing YouTube personality against Google, Facebook, Twitter and Apple accusing them of conspiring to suppress conservative political views. In an interview with Fox News Channel on Wednesday, Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, said censoring a platform would not be the “right reflex” for a government worried about censorship. Fox played a clip of the interview and said it would be aired in full on Thursday.Facebook left Trump’s post on mail-in ballots on Tuesday untouched.The American Civil Liberties Union said the First Amendment of the US Constitution limits any action Trump could take.Facebook and Alphabet’s Google declined comment. Apple did not respond to a request for comment.“Republicans feel that Social Media Platforms totally silence conservatives voices. We will strongly regulate, or close them down, before we can ever allow this to happen,” Trump said in a pair of additional posts on Twitter on Wednesday.The president, a heavy user of Twitter with more than 80 million followers, added: “Clean up your act, NOW!!!!”Republican Trump has an eye on the November election. “Big Tech is doing everything in their very considerable power to CENSOR in advance of the 2020 Election,” Trump tweeted on Wednesday. “If that happens, we no longer have our freedom.”STRONGEST THREAT YETTrump’s threat is his strongest yet within a broader conservative backlash against Big Tech. Shares of both Twitter and Facebook fell on Wednesday. Last year the White House circulated drafts of a proposed executive order about anti-conservative bias which never gained traction. The Internet Association, which includes Twitter and Facebook among its members, said online platforms do not have a political bias and they offer “more people a chance to be heard than at any point in history.”Late on Wednesday, Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey said Trump’s tweets about California’s vote-by-mail plans “may mislead people into thinking they don’t need to register to get a ballot.”Separately, Twitter said Trump’s tweets were labeled as part of efforts to enforce the company’s “civic integrity policy.” The policy document on Twitter’s website says people may not use its services for manipulating or interfering in elections or other civic processes.In recent years Twitter has tightened its policies amid criticism that its hands-off approach allowed fake accounts and misinformation to thrive.Tech companies have been accused of anti-competitive practices and violating user privacy. Apple, Google, Facebook and Amazon.com face antitrust probes by federal and state authorities and a US congressional panel. Republican and Democratic lawmakers, along with the US Justice Department, have been considering changes to Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act, a federal law largely exempting online platforms from legal liability for the material their users post. Such changes could expose tech companies to more lawsuits. Republican Senator Josh Hawley, a frequent critic of Big Tech companies, sent a letter to Dorsey asking why Twitter should continue to receive legal immunity after “choosing to editorialize on President Trump’s tweets.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-to-sign-executive-order-on-social-media-on-thursday-white-house/story-lUKBCKtNXnwp7PcAkFnA6O.html
28-05-2020||World||Covid-19 could push 14 million into hunger in Latin America, says UN||The UN World Food Programme is warning that upward of at least 14 million people could go hungry in Latin America as the coronavirus pandemic rages on, shuttering people in their homes, drying up work and crippling the economy.New projections released late Wednesday estimate a startling increase: Whereas 3.4 million experienced severe food insecurity in 2019, that number could more than quadruple this year in one of the world’s most vulnerable regions.“We are entering a very complicated stage,” said Miguel Barreto, the WFP’s regional director for Latin America and the Caribbean. “It is what we are calling a hunger pandemic.” Signs of mounting hunger are already being felt around the region, where desperate citizens are violating quarantines to go out in search of money and food and hanging red and white flags from their homes in a cry for aid. Many of the hungry are informal workers who make up a sizable portion of Latin America’s workforce, while others are newly poor who have lost jobs amidst an historic economic downturn.“I am the captain of the family,” said Dieufete Lebien, 57, a now unemployed construction worker in Haiti. “A boat that is sinking.” The number of people going hungry is likely to be higher than the UN projection, which only takes into account numbers in the 11 countries where the organisation operates. The estimate does not include, for example, Venezuela, where one in every three people faced hunger last year, according to the food agency’s 2019 study.The escalating hunger comes as the Covid-19 pandemic increasingly ravages Latin America. Brazil now ranks second globally in the number of coronavirus infections, behind the US, and rising levels in Peru, Chile, Mexico and elsewhere are stretching hospitals thin, increasingly in poor urban and remote rural communities.UN food agency executive director David Beasley warned in April that an addition 130 million people could be “pushed to the brink of starvation” worldwide by the end of 2020. The new estimates for Latin America indicate the region will be especially hard hit.In Haiti, hunger could more than double, from 700,000 to 1.6 million. Hundreds of thousands of Venezuelan migrants living in the Andes as well as those in Central American countries reeling from a severe drought are also expected to see levels multiply.The impact of such a sharp rise in hunger could have far-reaching implications ranging from higher levels of chronic childhood malnutrition to security issues. The WFP is calling on nations to expand their social safety net to those who traditionally don’t qualify for aid. Many governments and international organizations have been stepping up, providing cash transfers and food deliveries, but are facing logistical and economic hurdles.Local activists like Cristian Perea in Cali, Colombia, said government efforts are reaching only a fraction of those who need assistance. He recently went out delivering boxes of fruit, rice, vegetables and sugar to families who have gotten nothing and came across one 9-year-old boy who had only consumed a glass of water in the last day.“You could tell he was in need,” Perea said.Latin America and the Caribbean are expected to see a 5.3% economic contraction this year, possibly a sharper drop than during the Great Depression. That downturn comes after seven years of low growth averaging less than 0.5%.“We could enter another lost decade,” said Alicia Bárcena, chief of the U.N.’s regional economic branch, referring to a previous downturn during the 1980s that took Latin America 25 years in order to recover 1979 per-capita income levels.Latin America’s economies are in a bind, not able to borrow as freely as their European counterparts, making painful budget cuts, slashing jobs, shuttering embassies and putting state employees on part-time working schedules.“Latin American governments hardly have the resources to finance their current levels of spending,” said Sergio Guzmán, director of Colombia Risk Analysis.Alimenta la Solidaridad, a charity that operates 214 soup kitchens across Venezuela, has seen demand increase since a nationwide quarantine went into effect in mid-March. The group usually serves 14,500 meals to children daily; now an additional 5,300 boys and girls are on a waiting list hoping to get food, but supplies are limited.“The situation pains me greatly,” said Roberto Patiño, the organization’s director.Across the region, nearly 30 million more people are expected to find themselves in “situations of poverty” and another 16 million among the extreme poor, the UN estimates.The new poor include people like Yadira Montenegro, 38, a mother of three in Bogota who recently lost her job as a security guard and now eats just once a day. Her meals usually consist of potato soup or rice with a fried egg on top.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-could-push-14-million-into-hunger-in-latin-america-says-un/story-7IjuhOmUZMUoEQjbC6dqlM.html
28-05-2020||World||Inquiry into Russia probe carries political consequences||Attorney General William Barr says he doesn’t expect a criminal inquiry into the origins of the Russia investigation to target former President Barack Obama or Joe Biden, the former vice president and President Donald Trump’s Democratic opponent.But that doesn’t mean the investigation, led by US Attorney John Durham of Connecticut, doesn’t carry its own political consequences. The inquiry could conclude this summer, meaning fresh revelations might be exploited by Trump in the heat of the election season to damage Biden or to attack the Obama administration.Buoyed by the Justice Department’s decision to dismiss the case against former national security adviser Michael Flynn and by the ongoing declassification of Russia-related material, Trump and his allies have looked to Durham’s investigation as the last opportunity to hold accountable officials they say wronged the president. Former Obama administration officials, meanwhile, find themselves scrutinized for actions they took four years ago while investigating Russian election interference.A look at where things stand:What exactly is the investigation about?Durham is a veteran federal prosecutor with decades of Justice Department experience. He’s investigated FBI corruption related to the handling of Boston mobster Whitey Bulger and later the CIA’s harsh overseas interrogations of terror suspects.He was named last year by Barr to investigate the origins of the Russia investigation.Durham’s investigation is one of multiple inquiries the department has undertaken in connection with the FBI’s probe into potential coordination between Russia and the 2016 Trump campaign. Those include an internal review of the Justice Department’s handling of the Flynn investigation, and an inspector general report that was issued last December.Unlike those inquiries, which were focused on Justice Department employees, Durham’s mandate is much broader, spanning the activities of the CIA and other agencies across government.Durham has been scrutinizing the intelligence community’s assessment that Russia interfered in the election in support of Trump, and what information the government had when it reached that conclusion.Barr has said the inquiry is far broader than just the FBI’s flawed applications to monitor a former Trump campaign adviser, and covers actions taken after the election, too.Are any of the recently reported developments under investigation? Yes. Justice Department spokesperson Kerri Kupec said Wednesday night on Fox News that Durham’s investigation will include a review of unmasking requests during the course of the Russia investigation.The issue gained attention earlier this month when newly declassified information showed that multiple intelligence and Obama administration officials asked the National Security Agency to disclose to them, or unmask, the name of an American that had been concealed in classified intelligence reports. That American was revealed to be Flynn.Kupec said John Bash, a US attorney in Texas who previously worked inside the Trump White House, has been selected to specifically review the issue.Names of American citizens are routinely redacted from intelligence reports that are produced when the US conducts surveillance of foreigners. But US officials can ask to receive the identity if they believe it’s vital to understanding the intelligence, which is apparently what happened in Flynn’s case in 2016 and 2017.Kupec acknowledged that unmasking isn’t inherently wrong — in fact, requests have been more common in the first years of the Trump administration than they were at the end of Obama’s tenure — but said “the frequency, the motivation and the reasoning” behind an unmasking request can be problematic.What is its current status?Barr has hinted at a resolution as soon as this summer, though precisely when the investigation will end is an open question.Over the course of months, Durham has conducted interviews and spoken with government figures in the US and abroad, traveling last year with Barr to meet Italian government officials. In a pattern with unmistakable echoes of special counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia investigation, current and former officials have lined up a who’s who of Washington attorneys to navigate them through the probe.Though the work continues, it is unclear how much it has been affected by the coronavirus pandemic, which has restricted travel and complicated access to some government buildings in the Washington area.What has Durham said about the investigation?Not much. But his main public statement — coming just after Inspector General Michael Horowitz issued a report saying the Russia investigation had been opened for a legitimate basis — was telling.In the statement, released through the Justice Department, Durham said he disagreed with the inspector general about the investigation being properly predicated. Horowitz has acknowledged that Durham disputed that there was a sufficient basis to open a full investigation, which gives the FBI more intrusive tools than a preliminary one.Barr has been public that the investigation is now criminal in nature while Trump and his allies, inside and outside the White House, frequently attack by name former officials who they see as deserving targets of Durham’s scrutiny.On Tuesday, White House spokeswoman Kayleigh McEnany lambasted former CIA Director John Brennan, claiming he had shaded the truth by saying a dossier of information about Trump’s ties to Russia played no part in the opening of the investigation. In fact, the investigation was started without the dossier.How might Trump use the Durham investigation? Trump and his supporters hope the investigation will uncover misconduct and support the president’s claims that the Russia investigation was a “witch hunt.” Even after Horowitz released a comprehensive report on the origins of the investigation, Trump insisted Americans should be more interested in Durham’s probe.Trump is likely to seize on any modicum of questionable activity during the counterintelligence probe, which morphed into Mueller’s investigation. Mueller concluded that the Russian government interfered in the election, but his investigation didn’t find sufficient evidence to establish a criminal conspiracy between Trump’s campaign and Russia. Mueller also examined multiple possible instances of obstruction of justice and pointedly said he could not exonerate the president.How will the investigation end?Barr has mentioned that there could be not only a written report, similar to a document produced after Mueller’s probe, but also criminal charges. But neither he nor Durham has said who could wind up charged, or if anyone will be.Barr said last week that despite calls by Trump and some of his supporters for Obama and Biden to be investigated, he did not expect either man to become targets of Durham’s probe.“Our concern over potential criminality,” he said, “is focused on others.”Though Justice Department policy cautions against overt investigative actions in the run-up to an election, Barr has said that policy would not apply here since Durham’s investigation isn’t targeting a candidate. That raises the possibility that a criminal charge, or significant development, could be revealed in the crucial weeks prior to the election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/inquiry-into-russia-probe-carries-political-consequences/story-nijX4HVIP27MNaBJarLnHO.html
28-05-2020||World||US deaths from coronavirus surpass 100,000 milestone||The US has surpassed a jarring milestone in the coronavirus pandemic: 100,000 deaths.That number is the best estimate and most assuredly an undercount. But it represents the stark reality that more Americans have died from the virus than from the Vietnam and Korea wars combined.“It is a grim milestone,” said Josh Michaud, associate director of global health policy with the Kaiser Family Foundation in Washington. “It’s a striking reminder of how dangerous this virus can be.” Worldwide, the virus has infected more than 5.6 million people and killed over 350,000, with the US having the most confirmed cases and deaths by far, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University. Europe has recorded about 170,000 deaths, while the US reached more than 100,000 in less than four months.The true death toll from the virus, which emerged in China late last year and was first reported in the US in January, is widely believed to be significantly higher, with experts saying many victims died of Covid-19 without ever being tested for it.At the end March, the United States eclipsed China with 3,500 deaths. Now, the US has not only the highest death total, but the highest number of confirmed cases of Covid-19 in the world, making up more than 30 per cent of the global total.Early on, President Donald Trump downplayed the severity of the coronavirus and called it no worse than the common flu. He previously predicted the country wouldn’t reach this death toll. As early as March, Dr. Anthony Fauci, the government’s top infectious disease expert, was warning that Covid-19 could claim more than 100,000 lives in the US.“I think we’ll be substantially under that number,” Trump said on April 10. Ten days later, he said, “We’re going toward 50- or 60,000 people.” Ten days after that: “We’re probably heading to 60,000, 70,000.” Critics have said deaths spiked because Trump was slow to respond, but he has contended on Twitter that it could have been 20 times higher without his actions. He has urged states to reopen their economies after months of stay-at-home restrictions.The virus exacted an especially vicious toll on Trump’s hometown of New York City and its surrounding suburbs, killing more than 21,000. At the peak, hundreds of people were dying per day in New York City, and hospitals, ambulances and first responders were inundated with patients.The densely packed New York metropolitan area, consisting of about 20 million people across a region that encompasses the city’s northern suburbs, Long Island and northern New Jersey, has been the hardest-hit corner of the country, accounting for at least one-third of the nation’s deaths.There is no vaccine or treatment for Covid-19, though several emergency treatments are being used after showing some promise in preliminary testing.Worldwide, about a dozen vaccine candidates are starting to be tested or getting close to it. Health officials have said studies of a potential vaccine might be done by late this year or early next year.For most people, the coronavirus causes mild or moderate symptoms, such as fever and cough that clear up in two to three weeks. For some, especially older adults and people with existing health problems, it can cause more severe illness, including pneumonia and death.Among the 100,000 deaths was 74-year-old Michael Ganci, a resident of Newington, Connecticut, who died March 21. He was a public school teacher, a grandfather and father of four, and a 4th-degree belt Sensei in Kyokushin karate.Ganci, who had a compromised immune system, died at St. Francis Hospital in Hartford three days after showing symptoms. His family was not allowed to be with him and tried to text and talk with him on his cellphone during his final days. His wife of 48 years also tested positive for Covid-19 and was forced to grieve alone.For their daughter, 45-year-old Joanna Ganci of Beverly, Massachusetts, the milestone and other statistics are important to understand the scope of the virus.“But at the same time, I think the danger of counting, the danger of statistics, is that it just minimizes the human element,” she said. “And I think, again, we see that our country is in the throes of this kind of moment of just that the numbers don’t seem to mean anything anyway to many. It’s like, what number is going to make an impact for people who haven’t been touched by it?” “For people whose lives haven’t been threatened or where the virus hasn’t been as rampant through a community, I just think numbers or not, it’s still so abstract to so many people,” she said. “It doesn’t matter if it’s 200,000, 100,000 or 10. It doesn’t mean anything until you’re personally affected by it.” From Jan. 1 through the end of April, the US saw at least 66,000 more overall deaths than in similar periods for previous years, an increase of around 7 per cent, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.The coronavirus was reported as a cause in about half the excess deaths, but experts also believe the virus was likely a factor in many others. Coroners caution that deaths from other causes are likely up, too, including those from drug overdoses and among people who delayed treatment for problems like heart attacks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-deaths-from-coronavirus-surpass-100-000-milestone/story-TBVPp6HZk7PPm3lahGuyIN.html
28-05-2020||World||Iran’s president pushes for harsher laws on honour killings||Iran’s president urged his Cabinet on Wednesday to speed up harsher laws in so-called honor killings, after a particularly disturbing slaying of a 14-year-old girl by her father shocked the nation.President Hassan Rouhani pushed for speedy adoption of relevant bills, some which have apparently shuttled for years among various decision-making bodies in Iran.The killing of teen Romina Ashrafi last week in the Iranian town of Talesh, some 320 kilometers (198 miles) northwest of the capital, Tehran, prompted a nationwide outcry. She was reportedly beheaded while sleeping by her father, Reza Ashrafi, who used a farming sickle to kill his daughter.The father, who is now in custody, was apparently enraged after she ran away with her 34-year-old boyfriend Bahamn Khavari in Talesh. In rural areas of Iran, it’s unheard of for teenage girls to run away from home to be with their boyfriends.After five days, Romina was found and taken to a police station, from where her father brought her back home. The girl reportedly told the police she feared a violent reaction from her father.Rouhani expressed regret over the tragic case.There is little data on honor killings in Iran, where local media occasionally report on such cases. Under the law, girls can marry after the age of 13, though the average age of marriage for Iranian women is 23. It is not known how many women and young girls are killed by family members or close relatives because of their actions, perceived as violating conservative Islamic norms on love and marriage.Iran’s judiciary said Romina’s case will be tried in a special court. Under the current law, her father faces a prison sentence of up to 10 years.Iran’s vice-president in charge of family affairs, Masoumeh Ebtekar, expressed hope that a bill with harsher punishments will soon be in the final stages of approval.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-s-president-pushes-for-harsher-laws-on-honour-killings/story-FCxbtCTemia3CGNDXZDj0O.html
28-05-2020||World||Bangladesh won’t extend Covid-19 lockdown post May 30: Report||Bangladesh has decided not to extend further the nationwide lockdown after May 30 that imposed to contain the spread of coronavirus but every citizen needed to strictly abide by the health guidelines for Covid-19 until June 15, Junior Minister for Public Administration Farhad Hossain said on Wednesday.Bangladesh, where the nation-wide shutdown was enforced on March 26, has till now witnessed 36,715 infections with 522 deaths.“The general holiday will not be extended after its expiry on May 30, but everyone must strictly abide by health guidelines for Covid-19 until June 15,” Hossain told reporters.He said the elderly, sick people and the pregnant women would, however, refrain from joining their offices while “others will attend office “maintaining 13 specific guidelines”.The junior minister said the government also planned to allow “limited reopening” of public transport services like passenger buses, trains and ferries maintaining as well the health guidelines and restrictions.Asked to explain the “limited” and “restricted” reopening Hossain said it meant the “transport services will operate in a “controlled manner” maintaining health directives while local authorities will take detailed decisions in this regard.“The private aviation operators will also restore their services under their own management maintaining the health guidelines,” Hossain said.But the existing ban on public gatherings and unnecessary movement of people from 8 pm to 6 am would remain enforced while violation of the order would be treated as a punishable offence, he said.The shops would remain open from 8 am to 4 pm strictly enforcing social and physical distancing and maintaining other health guidelines. Hossain said an official order was expected to be issued on Thursday announcing the government decision. “We have obtained Prime Minister’s (Sheikh Hasina) approval in this regard,” he said.Since its enforcement on March 26, coinciding with the Independence Day anniversary, the shutdown was extended in six phases until May 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bangladesh-won-t-extend-covid-19-lockdown-post-may-30-report/story-R9UoxhhwAmAHeUHylwVkyJ.html
28-05-2020||World||Approval of Trump’s pandemic response stays steady, Biden favored in election: Report||Public approval of President Donald Trump’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic remained steady this week as the number of U.S. deaths from the illness surpassed 100,000, according to a Reuters/Ipsos poll released on Wednesday.Asked to rate Trump’s handling of the coronavirus crisis, 41% of Americans approved and 53% disapproved, about the same as last week but down significantly from late March when Americans approved of Trump’s response to the pandemic by a small margin.Earlier this year, Trump downplayed the seriousness of the coronavirus outbreak, which has infected more than 1.7 million people in the United States since the first reported case in late January.Trump’s performance in office received similar ratings, with 41% of U.S. adults approving and 54% disapproving. The president’s overall popularity has been about the same for more than a year.Trump’s likely Democratic opponent in the Nov. 3 election, former Vice President Joe Biden, has a higher favorability with registered voters despite a slight dip from last week. Biden, the presumptive Democratic nominee, has a six-point net lead in support over Trump, down about three points from last week.Trump has been widely criticized for the federal government’s response to the pandemic, which has battered the economy and led more than 38 million Americans to file for unemployment benefits.The president has accused Democratic governors -- without any evidence -- of keeping states locked down to damage the economy and hurt his chances in the November election.Some states have begun to relax stay-at-home guidelines while health experts warn that ending the orders too early or without sufficient precautions could cause a second deadly wave of the virus.The Reuters/Ipsos poll was conducted online, in English, throughout the United States. It gathered responses from 4,429 American adults, including 3,732 who identified as registered voters. It had a credibility interval, a measure of precision, of plus or minus 2 percentage points.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/approval-of-trump-s-pandemic-response-stays-steady-biden-favored-in-election-report/story-7FLcqjxLAA6FoGmHwoabUO.html
28-05-2020||World||UK closes embassy, pulls diplomats from N Korea over Covid-19 restrictions||Britain temporarily closed its embassy in North Korea and all diplomatic staff have left the country, the UK ambassador said on Thursday, the latest foreign delegation to leave amid strict coronavirus restrictions.“The British Embassy in Pyongyang closed temporarily on 27 May 2020 and all diplomatic staff have left the DPRK for the time being,” ambassador Colin Crooks said in a post on Twitter, using the initials of North Korea’s official name, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. The #BritishEmbassy in #Pyongyang closed temporarily on 27 May 2020 and all diplomatic staff have left the #DPRK for the time being. If you need consular assistance call (+44) (0)207 008 1500 #NorthKoreaThe decision was made because “restrictions on entry to the country have made it impossible to rotate our staff and sustain the operation of the Embassy,” the UK Foreign Office said in a statement.The UK maintains diplomatic relations with North Korea and will seek to re-establish a presence in Pyongyang as soon as possible, the statement said.Citing unnamed sources, Seoul-based NK News, which monitors North Korea, reported that the diplomats crossed the border into China by land, as flights remain on hold.North Korea has not confirmed any cases of the coronavirus but banned almost all cross-border travel, and made foreigners spend weeks in quarantine.In March, several countries, including Germany and France, withdrew their representatives from North Korea and closed their missions there.Sweden’s ambassador to North Korea, Joachim Bergstrom, is among the foreign diplomats remaining in Pyongyang, tweeting on Thursday that “a new working day begins” in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-closes-embassy-pulls-diplomats-from-n-korea-over-covid-19-restrictions/story-3f3JFnaVnAxVUNApKFj6bM.html
28-05-2020||World||Pak PM Imran Khan says India’s ‘expansionist policies’ threatening its neighbours||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on Wednesday alleged that the Indian government’s “arrogant expansionist policies” is becoming “a threat” to its neighbours as he tried to curry favour with Islamabad’s all-weather ally, China.The Indian government “with its arrogant expansionist policies, akin to Nazi’s Lebensraum (Living Space), is becoming a threat to India’s neighbours. Bangladesh through Citizenship Act, border disputes with Nepal & China, & Pak threatened with false flag operation,” Khan said in a series of tweets.Several areas along the 3,500-km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh and North Sikkim have witnessed major military build-up by both the Indian and Chinese armies recently, in a clear signal of escalating tension and hardening of respective positions by the two sides even two weeks after they were engaged in two separate face-offs.The LAC is the de-facto border between India and China.Pakistan and China consider their relations as all-weather friends and their leaders often express support to each other on matters of core interests. Khan further alleged that India had “illegally annexed” Kashmir and dubbed it as “a war crime”.Pakistan has been unsuccessfully trying to drum up international support against India for withdrawing Jammu and Kashmir’s special status on August 5 and bifurcating it into two Union territories.India has categorically told the international community that the scrapping of Article 370 was its internal matter. It also advised Pakistan to accept the reality and stop all anti-India propaganda.Khan in his tweet said that the Indian government is “not only a threat to the country’s minorities, but also a threat to regional peace.” Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi also alleged that India’s “aggressive policy towards its neighbours is putting at stake the regional peace and security.” Meanwhile, the Foreign Office on Wednesday rejected as “misleading and factually incorrect” the media reports about the virtual meeting of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) Ambassadors to the United Nations on May 20.It said that during the meeting, Pakistan’s Permanent Representative to the UN highlighted the growing Islamophobia and violence against Muslims in India. The FO statement said that “sharing the growing concern over serious implications of Islamophobia in India, a large number of OIC Ambassadors supported the need for a coordinated OIC position on Islamophobia at the UN.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-pm-imran-khan-says-india-s-arrogant-expansionist-policies-is-threatening-its-neighbours/story-l6PK8NcLgrRtIZDPfoRuhI.html
28-05-2020||World||SpaceX Crew Dragon capsule launch postponed to Saturday due to bad weather||The hatch of the SpaceX Crew Dragon capsule set to carry NASA astronauts Bob Behnken and Doug Hurley on a mission to the International Space Station closed Wednesday a few minutes ahead of schedule.Weather permitting, takeoff was set for 4:33 pm (2033 GMT). The risk of a postponement to Saturday remained high, with rain and thunderstorms persisting since morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hatch-closes-on-spacex-crew-dragon-capsule-carrying-us-astronauts/story-6JQpxed19nTWTxTfEYw2eJ.html
28-05-2020||World||5 killed in fire at Bangladesh coronavirus treatment tent||Fire swept through a tent set up outside a hospital in an upscale area of the Bangladeshi capital to treat people infected with the coronavirus, killing five people, an official said Wednesday.The fire started at about 10 p.m. at the tent at the United Hospital Ltd. in Dhaka’s Gulshan area, where many diplomatic missions and corporate offices are located, said Quamrul Islam, an on-duty control room official with the city’s Fire Service and Civil Defense agency.Firefighters recovered five bodies after the blaze was controlled, Islam said.The cause of the fire was under investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/5-killed-in-fire-at-bangladesh-coronavirus-treatment-tent/story-WDc6e1NxcikUlfVWOmJJPL.html
28-05-2020||World||US to revoke Iran nuclear cooperation sanctions waivers||The Trump administration is ending nearly all of the last vestiges of U.S. sanctions relief provided under the 2015 Iran nuclear deal, according to current and former U.S. officials and congressional aides.They said Wednesday that Secretary of State Mike Pompeo will revoke all but one of sanctions waivers covering civil nuclear cooperation. The waivers had allowed Russian, European and Chinese companies to continue to work on Iran’s civilian nuclear facilities without drawing American penalties.The waivers were last renewed at the end of March and are due to expire at the end of the week. The revocations will give foreign companies 60 days to wind down their operations, according to the officials, who were not authorized to publicly discuss the matter and spoke on condition of anonymity. A formal announcement was expected on Thursday.Pompeo in March had opposed extending the waivers, which are among the few remaining components of the nuclear deal that the administration has not canceled. But officials said Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin had prevailed in an internal debate by arguing the coronavirus pandemic made eliminating the waivers unpalatable at a time when the administration is being criticized for refusing to ease sanctions to deal with the outbreak.President Donald Trump withdrew from the nuclear deal in 2018 and has steadily reimposed U.S. sanctions on Iran that had been eased or lifted under its terms. The “civilian-nuclear cooperation” waivers allow foreign companies to do work at some of Iran’s declared nuclear sites without becoming subject to U.S. sanctions.Deal supporters say the waivers give international experts a valuable window into Iran’s atomic program that might otherwise not exist. They also say some of the work, particularly at the Tehran reactor on nuclear isotopes that can be used in medicine, is humanitarian in nature.But Iran critics in Congress have pressed Pompeo to eliminate all the waivers, saying they should be revoked because they give Iran access to technology that could be used for weapons. These critics strenuously objected to the waiver that allowed work at Iran’s once-secret Fordow facility, which is built into a mountain.Pompeo canceled that waiver in mid-December but the others, which permit work at the Bushehr nuclear power station, the Arak heavy water plant and the Tehran Research Reactor, had been kept in place until now. The waiver for work at Bushehr will be the only one extended for 90 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-to-revoke-iran-nuclear-cooperation-sanctions-waivers/story-ke8HnFghB89e6VebLdsaAN.html
28-05-2020||World||Donald Trump’s mediation tweet is part of growing anti-China juggernaut||President Donal Trump on Wednesday said he has offered to arbitrate the India-China border dispute in what is being seen as move that will irk Beijing more than New Delhi, given the steadily rising hostility and antipathy towards China in the United States over the Covid-19 outbreak, which comes on top of months of differences over trade and mounting irritation over theft of intellectual property.“We have informed both India and China that the United States is ready, willing and able to mediate or arbitrate their now raging border dispute,” Trump wrote in a tweet Wednesday morning.The United States has been closely watching the latest flare-up on the India-China border, and had sided with India in its first official response. The flare-ups were a “reminder that Chinese aggression is not always just rhetorical”.,” Alice Wells, the top US diplomat for South and Central Asia had told reporters last week.ALSO WATCH | India-China tension | Donald Trump’s offer, more troops at LAC: All updates“Whether it’s in the South China Sea or whether it’s along the border with India, we continue to see provocations and disturbing behaviour by China that raises questions about how China seeks to use its growing power,” she had added.There were no followup pronouncements from the US since, till the morning tweet from the president, with his offer to mediate. No official explanation was forthcoming of the president’s new offer and it was not clear if either India and China had asked the American leader to intervene. A response is awaited from the White House to a request for more information.But people closely involved with India-US discussions and developments said the president’s tweet conformed to continuing hardening of his antipathy for China, driven by powerful China hawks in the administration,.“It’s a move to poke the Chinese, surely,” said a person familiar with these matters, “much like a class teacher calling two squabbling students.” China believes it belongs to a more senior class, argument goes, and will not take kindly to being “monitored” with India by a higher authority.“Think how Indians feel when someone offers to arbitrate their dispute with Pakistan,” it was said.India will reject the president’s offer as it has rejected all third-party mediation in any of its international disputes as a matter a policy, which has widespread bipartisan endorsement from all political parties. It had earlier rejected President Trump’s offer to mediate the dispute with Pakistan within minutes of it being made, at the urging of Prime Minister Imran Khan.”President Trump and his Republican allies have been attacking China relentlessly over the Covid-19 outbreak, in a bid to hold it responsible also for its spread in America, which is now the epicenter of the pandemic with the most cases and fatalities.Trump has called for an independent investigation into the origin of the outbreak — American officials have suggested the virus might have leaked from a virology lab in Wuhan — and China’s handling of it, including the exact magnitude of the devastation their, accusing Beijing of covering it up.On Tuesday the president told reporters to expect the announcement of an “interesting” action against China, regarding developments in Hong Kong, where protests have broken out against Beijing’s attempt to criminalize disrespect to the national flag. He did not specify. “We’re doing something now. I think you’ll find it very interesting, but I won’t be talking about it today,” he said responding to a question if he was contemplating sanctions.In recent weeks, the Trump administration has severely restricted US stay of Chinese journalists deemed working for state-run outfits and announced alerts for its pharmaceutical companies and research institutions working on Covid-19 vaccine and therapeutics about Chinese attempts to steal their work through cyber-hacking.Close Trump allies on Capital Hill have been calling for restricting Chinese students only to certain course in institutions of higher studies. “It’s a scandal to me that we have trained so many of the Chinese communists,” Senator Tom Cotton said recently. “If Chinese students want to come here and learn Shakespeare and the Federalist Papers—that’s what they need to learn from America; they don’t need to learn quantum computing and artificial intelligence from America.”About About two-thirds of Americans — 66% — have an unfavourable view of China, according to a new study by the Pew Research Center, conducted in March. “This is the most negative rating for the country since the Center began asking the question in 2005 and is up nearly 20 percentage points since the start of the Trump administration. (January 2017),” research body said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-ready-willing-and-able-to-mediate-tweets-trump-on-india-china-border-row/story-0Sc0VkxGEVW6w34yrcuA4N.html
28-05-2020||India||The locust menace close to Bihar in east, Karnataka, Andhra and Telangana in south, 16 states warned||A swarm of locusts on Wednesday and Thursday devastated crops in Uttar Pradesh’s Sonbhadhra district, which shares borders with Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh. The pest has damaged crops in six states, leading to the Centre issuing a locust warning to 16 states. UP agriculture officials said that swarms of locusts entered Ghorawal area in Sonbhadra from Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday afternoon and ate vegetable crops in fields in several villages. Jagdish Singh, a local, said that the swarm divided into many groups flew over the villages and damaged the vegetable crops. The damage was not much as most of the vegetable and other crops have been harvested, said district agriculture officer Piyush Rai.Also Read: Locust threat: Bhiwani, Dadri put on alertAbout 1,200 kms away in Bidar, Karnataka, farmers kept a vigil in farms, as the locust were expected to sneak in through western Maharashtra, where they reached on Tuesday. In Bangalore, agriculture minister B C Patil said based on wind direction as predicted by the weather department, the possibility of the locust swarm reaching Karnataka was remote. The locusts are said to be 450 km away from the border district of Bidar and Patil claimed that based on current information, “there is a 99.99% chance that it will not come to Karnataka. So farmers need not worry.”Locust has affected around 100 districts in five states --- Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra and they can reach another 12 in the next few weeks. Officials said another swarm from Pakistan is expected to enter India around mid-June, which would provide fuel to locust activity in the region. In the country’s most agrarian crisis hit Vidarbha region, locust swarms have damaged orange, mango and paddy fields of Bhandara, Gondia, Nagpur and Amravati districts. Swarms of locusts have moved from Kalmeshwar near Nagpur towards Gondia district after attacking crops in neighbouring Bhandara. Joint director (agriculture), Ravi Bhonsale, said a team was rushed to Bhandara on Thursday morning and sprayed pesticides on trees in one km radius in Temani village. “Timely action averted any major loss to crops.”In Agra, there was a sigh of relief on Thursday as locust from Dausa in Rajasthan moved towards Bhangarh in Rajasthan. “Three locust swarms have moved away from Agra and the one nearest to Agra moved towards Madhya Pradesh due to wind flow. However, threat continued from the locust swarm traced at Dausa, 140 km from Agra,” informed Ram Pravesh Verma, district plant protection officer (DPPO). He said on Thursday a swarm was within 30 kms of Agra but due to sudden change in wind direction it got diverted towards Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh. “We are keeping a constant watch,” Verma said, adding some smaller swarms have been killed in Dausa, Rajasthan.In Rajasthan, locust control has been done over 73,000 hectare out of the 95,000 hectare affected in 24 districts, said Suwa Lal Jat, joint director, plant protection division, agriculture department. “As on today, six districts -- Barmer, Jodhpur, Ganganagar, Dausa, Bikaner and Hanumangarh -- are badly affected,” he said. Jat said one swarm was present on the border of Jaipur and Dausa. This may either settle in Alwar or in Dausa. Alwar is just 100 kms from Delhi.In other northern states of Punjab, Haryana and Uttarkhand, agriculture departments have increased the vigil to counter a possible locust attack. Punjab is highly vulnerable as swarms of locust have been seen in Rajasthan’s Hanumanagrh district for the third consecutive day on Thursday. Bathinda chief agriculture officer Bahadur Singh Sidhu said the Rajasthan government officials had informed that the insecticide spray had a positive impact for locust control. Punjab agriculture secretary KS Pannu said the authorities in Fazilka, Bathinda and Muktsar districts that share boundary with Rajasthan have been equipped with ample stock of pesticides to deal with a possible locust attack.Like Punjab, Haryana and Uttarakhand agriculture departments have set up district control rooms to coordinate locust control operations. The officials in these states said that drones have also been procured to spray chemicals and fire tenders and trackers with chemicals are on the standby for pest control operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-locust-menace-close-to-bihar-in-east-karnataka-andhra-and-telangana-in-south-16-states-warned/story-VxbPNhgRdbZ5pa5YNtaNEI.html
28-05-2020||India||Delhi violence case: L-G, govt slugfest over prosecutors||New Delhi: Delhi lieutenant-governor (L-G) Anil Baijal and the elected Delhi government led by Arvind Kejriwal are again locked in confrontation -- this time over the appointment of special public prosecutors (SPPs) to argue cases related to the February communal riots in northeast Delhi.The face-off is so intense that the L-G on Thursday decided to refer the matter to President Ram Nath Kovind, citing persistent “difference of opinion,” officials in the L-G’s office familiar with the subject said.Documents seen by HT suggest the confrontation, brewing since April, is over whose panel of public prosecutors should represent the state in the trials pertaining to the northeast Delhi riots, which claimed 53 lives and left over 400 injured. So far, the police have registered 752 first information reports (FIRs) and arrested 1,300 people in connection with the Hindu-Muslim violence The L-G, in a string of written communication between him and the Kejriwal government, has stated that the panel proposed by the Delhi Police should be notified and allowed to fight the cases because the riots “disturbed public order” in the capital and “effective prosecution” was needed “to restore faith of the general public and in the Delhi government”. HT has reviewed the correspondence. The Kejriwal government wants its own panel of “independent and technically qualified” special public prosecutors to be appointed to represent the state.On Thursday, the Kejriwal government approved a panel of prosecutors in a Cabinet meeting chaired by the chief minister. Hours later, senior officials in the office of the L-G said on condition of anonymity that Baijal was referring the matter to the President for his intervention.A Delhi government spokesperson said: “Invoking the provision of difference of opinion this time, the L-G has not bothered to make it clear as to how ‘good governance’, a reason cited by him in his previous such orders, is being served by blatantly subverting the process of appointment of public prosecutors. This clearly appears to be a question of Delhi government’s panel versus Delhi police’s panel because the L-G has not pointed out any deficiencies in the Delhi government’s panel, nor has given reasons why Delhi Police’s panel should be preferred. Delhi Police being the investigative agency should have no role in deciding the prosecuting lawyers to maintain the independence of investigation and prosecution. Otherwise, the criminal justice system would be seriously compromised.”The tussle began in the first week of April when Delhi police proposed a set of special public prosecutors to argue the riots cases and the L-G endorsed the move. When the file came to the Delhi government for perusal by the home minister Satyendar Jain, he shot down the police’s proposal, formed a fresh panel of lawyers and issued orders on April 16 that they be notified as the special public prosecutors.“The proposal of the Delhi Police suffered from both technical irregularities and {was} malafide. It was malafide because certain names in the panel were found to be directly related to senior police officers. It was technically irregular because certain names had less than 10 years of experience which is a mandatory condition be appointed as a special public prosecutor,” read home minister’s noting on the file, seen by HT.Documents showed that the Delhi police subsequently withdrew its panel and submitted a second list of special public prosecutors on April 24. But it was again shot down by the Delhi government with home minister Jain reiterating his order of notifying the government’s panel. “The Delhi government had already issued the order for notification of its panel of advocates and since this panel was independent and technically qualified, there was no need to change Delhi government’s panel,” Jain said in his eight-page note to the L-G. Jain met the L-G on May 21, but the differences persisted. In another file noting after the meeting, he wrote: “The L-G has not found any discrepancy on the merits in the panel proposed by the undersigned (home minister). Still, he insisted for the appointment of the panel of advocates proposed by the Delhi police.”The L-G wrote to the government on May 23 stating that he saw no reason to suspect that the lawyers suggested by the police would not perform their duties fearlessly and impartially as officers of the court. The L-G then invoked Article 239AA(4) of the Constitution (difference of opinion with the council of ministers) to refer the matter to the President. Baijal maintained that it was necessary to monitor the progress of these cases so that the guilty in these riots are brought to justice swiftly. “Had this been a routine matter, I would not have invoked the difference of opinion with the proposal of the minister. These cases involved large scale communal violence and thus, require careful handling in view of the gravity and deep impact on the society… We cannot forget that these communal riots had disturbed the ‘public order’ in Delhi to a great extent and created a panic situation in the minds of the general public,” Baijal wrote in a two-page to chief minister Kejriwal and Jain.The communication between the two centres of powers in Delhi also came down to the issue of who has control over the subject, according to the files exchanged between the L-G, Kejriwal and Jain. The Delhi government cited a Supreme Court order dated July 4, 2018, which went in its favour, to point out that “any matter” of the government should not be construed as “every matter” by the L-G and that difference of opinion should have a sound rationale.A statement issued by the L-G’s office on Thursday evening referred to Baijal’s stand on the matter. “The L-G is acting in accordance to the orders of the Supreme Court. The Apex court’s (Division Bench) order dated February 14, 2020 in civil Appeal 2357 of 2017 has already settled the legal position for appointment of Special Public Prosecutors in Para 172 :-‘172) In any case, it may not be necessary to dwell much upon this aspect. The High Court has also categorically held that the power to appoint a Public Prosecutor is relatable to Entries 1 and 2 of List III. In our opinion, the High Court has rightly held that in respect of these entries, the Government of NCT of Delhi has legislative competence under Article 239AA of the Constitution and that the LG under Article 239AA(4) of the Constitution shall act on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers. This conclusion of the High Court is in tune with the judgment of the Constitution Bench. We, therefore, hold that Lieutenant Governor, while appointing the Special Public Prosecutor, is to act on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers. This issue is answered accordingly.’Thus, the L-G is the competent authority to appoint special public prosecutors on the aid and advice of the council of ministers. In case of difference of opinion between the L-G and his Ministers, he is not bound by the said aid and advice and can invoke the proviso to Article 239AA (4) of the Constitution,” read the statement. This is not the first time that the L-G and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government have come into confrontation. In 2018, the two sparred over appointing special public prosecutor to fight the case of the alleged assault on former Delhi chief secretary Anshu Prakash by AAP MLAs. Kejriwal and other cabinet minister then staged a nine-day sit-in protest at the L-G’s office. In that case, the home department and the L-G wanted to appoint special public prosecutors, and home minister Jain had maintained that general public prosecutors would serve the purpose. Later, it was a Delhi court which asked for appointing a special public prosecutor after Anshu Prakash filed a plea demanding it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-violence-case-l-g-govt-slugfest-over-prosecutors/story-D8bAuQTztCStxTjGVNSL4N.html
28-05-2020||India||Delhi issues a fresh advisory on swarms||New Delhi: The Delhi government on Thursday issued an advisory to officials across various districts to prepare for a potential locust attack after the central government issued a warning that there was a high chance of the crop-munching insects moving from parts of Madhya Pradesh towards the capital.Delhi minister Gopal Rai said: “Alert and directions have been sent to the revenue commissioners, district magistrates and municipal commissioners regarding the matter… The authorities should carry out spraying of insecticides and pesticides during the night… As the swarm usually flies in the day time and rests during night time, they should not be allowed to rest.”His comments came after the nodal organisation dealing with a possible locust attack warned that Delhi may be targeted by the swarm which hit Jaipur and Uttar Pradesh on May 25, and parts of Madhya Pradesh last week. KL Gurjar, deputy director at the Locust Warning Organisation under the Union agriculture ministry, said: “There is a chance that the swarm in Madhya Pradesh’s Chhatarpur and neighbouring Jhansi area may move towards Delhi. They will settle in the evening and control operations will take place tomorrow morning . But it’s good that Delhi government is on alert just in case a small number reach Delhi from Madhya Pradesh.”The wind direction is easterly now and blowing from the direction of Bihar and UP ,according to the India Meteorological Department.Locusts swarms are capable of covering 150 km a day, experts said, and a one-square-kilometer swarm can eat as much food as 35,000 people in terms of weight.In the rural pockets, they are capable of causing crop loss, and in the urban pockets, they can cause damage to trees on the roads and residential areas, said SN Upadhyay, a Gwalior-based entomologist who has worked on locust outbreaks across states. He recommended spraying of insecticides between 7 am and 9 am as locusts are believed to be in the most “sluggish” state in this time window.Delhi, according to government records, has 85,870 acres of agricultural land which is spread largely across the rural belts in the south-west and north-west peripheries of the city. The crop loss is expected to be less because this is not a harvesting season and paddy plantation is likely to begin next month.Bhagirath Choudhary, director, South Asia Biotechnology Centre, a think-tank that works in the field of agriculture with the central government, said that in the last 15 days, the locusts had moved out of their traditional areas in the deserts of Rajasthan and reached Madhya Pradesh and parts of Uttar Pradesh as they sought food.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-issues-a-fresh-advisory-on-swarms/story-hDrOWjQCJKsHhWqeirQADK.html
28-05-2020||India||In a virtual protest, Cong attacks govt over migrant crisis||New Delhi: Congress chief Sonia Gandhi said on Thursday that the entire country, barring the central government, had heard the cries of anguish of migrant workers and felt their pain, as the party sharpened its criticism of the way the Centre handled the migrants’ crisis set off by the Covid-19 lockdown. In a video message posted as part of an online campaign by the Congress, Gandhi also urged the Centre to unlock its coffers to help those hit by the lockdown imposed on March 25, which sparked an exodus of tens of thousands of migrant workers from the cities to their homes in rural areas of states such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and West Bengal.The day-long “Speak Up India” campaign was launched by the opposition party to put pressure on the Centre to accept its demands for immediate financial aid to migrant workers, daily wage earners, farmers and small businesses hit by the pandemic.In the absence of mass protests during the pandemic, the Congress had decided to open online fronts against the government. The campaign included messages through Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Youtube accounts.In a letter sent to state unit chiefs, Congress general secretary KC Venugopal asked them to mobilise around 5 million participants on all social media platforms to register their protest.Senior Congress leader Ajay Maken later claimed that over 5.7 million party leaders and workers uploaded their messages on the social media throughout the day.“The campaign reached out to around 100 million people. It was a massive virtual rally. #SpeakUpIndia was also the top Twitter trend worldwide,” he said.The Centre has denied ignoring the plight of the migrant workers left stranded by the lockdown, and the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) hit out at Congress for the campaign.“Congress can neither rule nor play the role of a constructive opposition. What they did today was a drama. The least their party chief could have done was taken a leaf out of BJP president JP Nadda’s book and instructed party workers to feed hungry people and provide whatever help was needed,” BJP leader Shahnawaz Hussain said. As the country experiences a serious economic crisis with loss of livelihoods, the central government has not helped those affected by the pandemic, Gandhi said.“It is for the first time since Independence that such a spectre of pain and anguish has been witnessed, where lakhs of famished and thirsty labourers have been forced to walk hundreds of thousands of kilometres back home barefoot and without any access to medicines or transport,” the Congress chief said.“Everyone across the country except the government heard their cries of pain and trauma,” she added.Instead of loans, Gandhi said the government should provide financial aid to small and medium businesses so that millions of jobs are saved.“Crores of livelihoods have been lost, lakhs of businesses and factories shut and farmers are running from pillar to post to self their produce.”Gandhi urged the Centre to unlock its coffers and help the needy by transferring cash of Rs 7,500 per month to every family for the next six months, ensuring safe and free travel of workers back home and doubling the number of work days to 200 a year under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act.Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi stressed the need to take the voice of the poor, migrant workers, and micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs)to the government.“India does not need debt, India needs money. Due to Covid-19, a storm has come in India and the poor have been hurt the most. Migrant workers have to walk hungry for hundreds of kilometres across the country and the MSMEs, which provide jobs to crores of people, are shutting down,” he said.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra cited the example of a toddler trying to wake her dead mother at a railway station to highlight the plight of migrants.“We have seen the visuals of a son pulling a cart carrying his parents, a daughter taking her father 1,200 km on a bicycle, many people dying in trains, a child dying in the lap of his father and another child trying to wake up his dead mother on a railway platform. These visuals can make anyone cry. The country is pained to see such visuals,” she said.Separately, former finance minister P Chidambaram attacked the government for discontinuing the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) bonds scheme, calling it another “cruel blow” to the citizens.The 7.75% Savings (Taxable) Bonds cease for subscription with effect from the close of banking business on Thursday. “After lowering the interest rates in PPF {Public ProvidentFfund} and small savings instruments, the abolition of the RBI Bond is another cruel blow. All citizens must demand that the RBI Bond must be restored immediately,” Chidambaram tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-virtual-protest-cong-attacks-govt-over-migrant-crisis/story-RrjEPMBtIQpL6UzwhTFwfI.html
28-05-2020||India||Some high courts are running parallel govts: Solicitor General on migrant workers case||The central government continued to remain obstinate before the Supreme Court in the migrant labourers’ case maintaining that stray incidents on the difficulties faced by migrant workers should not impact the hearing in the case.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing the central government, was critical of various high courts passing orders in cases concerning migrant labourers.“The issue is some high courts are running parallel governments,” Mehta said.Various high courts including Gujarat, Madras, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh had passed directions to state and central governments after taking note of the pitiable plight of migrant workers.Mehta also attacked the lawyers who had written to the Supreme Court on May 25 criticising the top court’s silence on the migrant crisis and urging the court to intervene in the matter.The letter was signed by leading lawyers such as P Chidambaram, Anand Grover, Indira Jaising, Mohan Katarki, Siddarth Luthra, Santosh Paul, Mahalaxmi Pavani, Kapil Sibal, Chander Uday Singh, Vikas Singh, Prashant Bhushan, Iqbal Chagla, Aspi Chinoy, Mihir Desai, Janak Dwarkadas, Rajani Iyer, Yusuf Muchhala, Rajiv Patil, Navroz Seervai, Gayatri Singh and Sanjay Singhvi.“All these letters which have been addressed to the court to persuade Supreme Court to take suo motu cognizance of this issue have been written by people who are earning in crores,” Mehta said.He went on to draw a comparison between the lawyers and South African photojournalist Kevin Carter who was awarded Pulitzer Prize for capturing a vulture eyeing a starving child in famine struck south Sudan in 1993. The child, it was reported, was attempting to reach a United Nations feeding centre.Carter had left the place after driving away the vulture but did not help the child reach the feeding centre.“All these people wanting to intervene need to apply the vulture and child story. What have they contributed,” Mehta demanded.Mehta told the court that migrant labourers are taking to the roads on foot because of anxiety due to “local level instigation”.“They are told ‘walk now, trains won’t run. Lockdown extended,” Mehta said.He told the court that the Centre and states are working above political and party lines so that mitigation measures can be taken to address the problem. Mehta also maintained that reports from all states would be needed to get a comprehensive picture of the situation.“Let the states reply and then you will have an overall view,” the SG said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/some-high-courts-are-running-parallel-govts-solicitor-general-on-migrant-workers-case/story-VIyig8sLFcCKH4BMaRqdRN.html
28-05-2020||India||Migrant workers’ law in focus as crisis intensifies||About 200 jobless migrant workers have died in accidents while cycling or walking back to their homes since the Covid-19 lockdown was imposed in late March. Their plight has put a spotlight on the Inter-State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act enacted in 1979 to protect the rights of migrant workers. States like Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have proposed to register migrant workers, a provision that is already in the law. The Centre plans to bring changes to the law through a new code. Here is an explainer on what the law entails, reasons for its ineffectiveness, and what the government now proposes:Why was the law framed? Many socialist leaders in the Janata Party government of the 1970s were concerned about the exploitation of migrant workers hired from poorer places like Odisha and Bihar for construction projects. They were often paid very low wages and contractors would rarely keep promises made to them. A committee constituted on the recommendation of labour ministers of states in 1977 when the government fell, recommended a law to regulate the employment of inter-state migrant workers. It said the Contract Labour Act, 1970, was unable to protect their rights. Parliament eventually passed the new law in 1980.What protection did the law provide for the migrant workers?The law covers establishments and contractors that employ migrant workers and provides for their registration either with the Central or the state governments. The registration depends on with whom--the Centre or the states--the establishments are registered with. The law requires contractors to get licenses from states where they intend to bring labourers from. With 15 days of hiring, each contractor is required to provide complete details of migrant workers to the registering authority. Contractors have to maintain registers for all migrant workers and provide them a passbook containing details of their employment. The establishments have to provide a displacement allowance of 50% of the wages and fares in addition to wages during any disruption period. They are also required to provide accommodation and health facilities. The law prohibits employment of migrant workers without registration and state governments are required to appoint inspectors to ensure its implementation.What are the penal provisions in the law?The law provides for a jail term of up to a year and a fine of Rs 1,000 for any violation of the law. It gives labour inspectors powers to conduct inspections and take testimonies from workers any time and two-year jail for any obstruction to their work.Why has the law been ineffective? Experts say most governments forgot about the law after the economic liberalisation in the 1990s as there was an increase in the flow of migrant workers to urban areas and fast-emerging industrial towns. The number of migrant workers has increased significantly since. As per the 2011 Census, India had 56.6 million migrants workers mostly from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Rajasthan, and Madhya Pradesh. According to state labour bureaus, less than 5% of the migrant workers are enrolled with government agencies. Odisha, however, has a helpline and facilities for children of migrant workers. There is also no provision for companies to file annual reports on migrant workers employed and allowances paid to them. The law is based on the powers of inspectors, which could be misused. What are the lessons learnt from the Covid-19 pandemic?The Centre introduced the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code in Lok Sabha in July 2019 to subsume and replace 13 labour laws including the Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act. The code retains some provisions of the law like contractors having to obtain licenses, the displacement and journey allowances for workers. Several other provisions, including the penal ones, have been excluded.A parliamentary panel has recommended a separate chapter on migrant workers in the code and said that every state should have a helpline for migrant workers. It noted the Code should have initiatives similar to those Odisha has adopted for migrant workers like a toll-free helpline, help desk, seasonal hostels for the their children as well as strengthening of the anti-human trafficking units and the setting-up of migration support centres.The Union labour ministry plans to accept the panel’s recommendations and have special social security for migrant workers. Officials say the provisions of the Code will apply to all migrant workers including domestic helps and those working in small factories. Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have sought to make registration of migrant workers mandatory with labour departments and to extend schemes such as subsidised ration under the Public Distribution System to them in the states of their employment through the ‘One Nation, One Ration Card’ scheme. Many states have also decided to continue with helplines for workers started during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-workers-law-in-focus-as-crisis-intensifies/story-JdasIACACTryx1008KVyrN.html
28-05-2020||India||How last-minute intel thwarted joint mission by terror outfits||New Delhi: Hizbul Mujahideen’s ambition of carrying out an attack on the lines of the February 2019 suicide car bombing in Pulwama may have been fulfilled on Thursday had security agencies not received last-minute intelligence about the movement of a car packed with a powerful bomb in the area, two counter-terrorism officers said.Troops of Jammu and Kashmir’s Special Operations Group (SOG), Rashtriya Rifles, and the 182nd and 183rd battalions of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) secured all the routes to Pulwama and set up checkpoints on Wednesday night after receiving information that a Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist was driving a white Santro car laden with explosives, the officers said on condition of anonymity.Thy were told that the terrorist may be targeting a convoy of troops or planning to ram the explosive-laden car into a security forces camp.The car, fitted with a powerful bomb made of around 40-45 kg of ammonium nitrate and nitroglycerin, was spotted at Ayangund, Rajpora in Pulwama around 2.30 am on Thursday. The terrorist – identified as Adil – managed to flee through the jungles, but security agencies averted a repeat of the February 14, 2019 Pulwama suicide bombing n which 40 CRPF troopers were killed. The attack carried out by the Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terror group prompted the Indian Air Force to bomb a JeM terror camp in Pakistan’s Balakot the same month and brought India and Pakistan to the brink of war. The two counter-terrorism officials cited above said three camps – two of the CRPF’s 183rd battalion and one of the Rashtriya Rrifles -- wee located within 3 km and 5 km of Ayangund where the Santro was intercepted.The area was evacuated by dawn and the bomb-laden vehicle was allowed to explode by bomb disposal squads because defusing it anually was deemed too risky, one of the officers said.J&K director general of police Dilbagh Singh said the attack was suspected to have been planned by JeM and the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). “This is purely a Jaish and Lashkar joint operation. But the (terror) factory is located in Pakistan, whether it produces terrorists of Hizbul, Jaish or the TRF (The Resistance Front),” Singh said.J&K Police Inspector General Vijay Kumar told reporters that It was not the first time terror groups in Kashmir had worked together. JeM, LeT and HM have regularly used each other’s resources and network of “overground workers” to carry out attacks on security forces or civilians, he said.At least five Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists - Hilal Ahmad Mantoo, Owais Amin, Umar Shafi, Aqib Shah, Shahid Wani and Wasim Ahmed Dar – disclosed toe the National Investigation Agency (NIA), after a failed car bombing on a CRPF convoy in Banihal on March 30, 2019, that the HM leadership aspired to carry out a Pulwama-like attack.The NIA will take over the probe of Thursday’s planned attack as well.Under pressure from Pakistan, terror groups have lately increased attacks in Jammu and Kashmir taking advantage of the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease.Around 40 terrorists have been killed by security forces in encounters in April and May, including top Hizbul Mujahideen commander Riyaz Naikoo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-last-minute-intel-thwarted-joint-mission-by-terror-outfits/story-nQ2hcWlORNawASu7Ux1ESL.html
28-05-2020||India||Monsoon likely in Kerala by June 1||The monsoon is likely to arrive in Kerala around its normal onset date of June 1, weather forecasting officials said on Thursday, after observing new developing patterns that could speed up the progress of the rain system.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) earlier said the monsoon may be delayed by four days but a low pressure that is likely to form over the southeast and adjoining east-central Arabian Sea could help make up for the delay at present. “The low-pressure area is likely to bring rain to the west coast and make conditions favourable for advancement of monsoon earlier than expected. We can expect onset of monsoon over Kerala around June 1 or 2,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD. The Arabian Sea is “very warm” and parts of it are conducive for development and intensification of a cyclone but IMD scientists said it is too early to give details of cyclone development. “The models are not giving us a consensus statement right now. Some are showing intensification to a very intense or an extremely intense cyclone but many other global models are not showing such intensification. So, it’s too early to tell but a low-pressure area will form around May 31 to June 1. Sea conditions are favourable for intensification into a cyclone,” he added. In its April forecast, IMD said monsoon rains this year are likely to be normal at 100% of long period average with model error of 5%. The monsoon, technically known as the southwest monsoon, is crucial for India’s farmers who rely on rain for irrigation of summer crops. Around 60% of the country’s net-sown area does not have any form of irrigation. Millions of farmers wait for the rains to begin summer sowing of major crops, such as rice, sugar, cotton, coarse cereals and oilseeds. Deficient monsoon years have coincided with a drop in rural earnings, a factor that is likely to be more closely watched this year due to the widespread erosion of the economy as a result of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and the lockdown it led to.The monsoon season begins in June and lasts till September. The rains usually cover most of the country by mid-July, though the pace is often independent of when it makes landfall on the subcontinent. Private forecaster Skymet Weather said the cyclone that is feared to develop may only move along the coast as a depression. “The low-pressure system that will develop will be a fast moving system and is likely to move along the coast as a depression. It will bring heavy rains to Maharashtra and south Gujarat but may not intensify into a cyclone,” said Mahesh Palawat, VP, climate and meteorology at Skymet Weather. “But the low pressure area will help pull monsoon current upwards and make it conducive for monsoon onset,” he added. Another low- pressure area has already developed over westcentral Arabian Sea. It is very likely to concentrate into a depression over the same region during next 48 hours and move northwestwards towards south Oman and east Yemen coast during next three days, the IMD said in a statement. Scientists are not expecting the current low pressure area to have much impact on the Indian coast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-likely-in-kerala-by-june-1/story-nVercjssxEdfJVqEuy6HPM.html
28-05-2020||India||100K Indians to return in Vande Bharat Phase 2||New Delhi A total of 100,000 Indians stranded in 60 countries across the globe due to the Covid-19 pandemic are expected to be brought back home by the end of the second phase of the country’s largest repatriation programme on June 13.More than 308,000 Indian nationals around the world have registered with missions abroad to be repatriated on compelling grounds under the Vande Bharat Mission, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a virtual news briefing on Thursday.“We are targeting to bring back 100,000 passengers from 60 countries by the end of Phase II. Preparations for the third phase of Vande Bharat Mission are well underway,” he said. The first phase of Vande Bharat Mission, completed during May 7-16, resulted in the repatriation of 16,716 stranded Indians on 64 flights from a dozen countries. The second phase represents a massive scaling up of the programme, with 429 flights by Air India (311 international flights and 118 feeder flights) from 60 countries.The Indian Navy’s warships will make four sorties to bring back stranded Indians from Iran, Sri Lanka and the Maldives during the second phase.“As of 4 pm today [Thursday], 45,216 Indians have returned. These include 8,069 migrant workers, 7,656 students and 5,107 professionals. About 5000 Indians have returned through land border immigration checkpoints from Nepal and Bangladesh,” Srivastava said.The external affairs ministry has also assisted in the return of stranded Indians from remote locations in Latin America, the Caribbean, Africa, and parts of Europe.“This is being done by taking advantage of foreign carriers flying to India, primarily for evacuation of their nationals. Recently, about 300 stranded Indians from Peru, Mexico, Belize, Guatemala, Honduras, Portugal and Netherlands were brought back,” he said.Unlike the first phase that had only flights operated by Air India, private airlines have been included in the second phase of Vande Bharat Mission. Chartered flights have also begun to operate, and the number of flights is expected to go up further with permission for more chartered flights and efficient use of quarantine facilities.The external affairs ministry is working closely with Indian missions abroad and stakeholders such as state governments, the home, health and civil aviation ministries, Air India and the Indian Navy for the repatriation programme.On Wednesday, external affairs minister S Jaishankar chaired a review meeting with all stakeholders to ramp up the scale of Vande Bharat Mission and enhance its efficiency.The external affairs ministry has said priority will be given to repatriating Indians with compelling reasons to return home, such as those who have lost their jobs, people with medical emergencies, pregnant women and senior citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100k-indians-to-return-in-vande-bharat-phase-2/story-lv2vhBPzpZCiZqUlgQkclL.html
28-05-2020||India||‘Shocking’: Patna HC on viral video of toddler trying to wake up dead mother||Patna High Court on Thursday took suo motu cognizance of report on the viral heart-rending video showing a two-and-half-year-old child trying to wake up his dead mother by pulling the makeshift shroud at the railway platform in Muzaffarpur. The incident happened on Monday.“This warrants intervention by us in exercise of our jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India and as such we take suo motu cognizance of the news item and issue notice,” said the bench of the Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice S Kumar after the matter was brought to their notice during the course of a hearing, when the latter brought it to the notice of the CJ.Describing the incident as “rather shocking and unfortunate”, the bench requested counsel Ashish Giri to assist the court as Amicus Curaie, as the apex court has also taken cognizance of matters pertaining to the migrants. The bench also asked Additional Advocate General-IX SD Yadav to ascertain from the nominated standing counsel for the state of Bihar in the Supreme Court, as to whether the apex court has taken cognizance of this particular incident or not. In the afternoon session, Yadav said that no information could be ascertained from the standing counsel in the apex court or the solicitor general of India. He, however, told the court that deceased was mentally unstable and had died a natural death during the course of her journey from Surat (Gujarat) and it was reported to railway authorities by her sister and brother-in-law Md Wazir. “The deceased, who had been deserted by her husband, had only one child,” he added.He said that after recording Wazir’s statement, the dead body was allowed to be taken home. “No post mortem was conducted and no FIR was registered. The district administration provided an ambulance up to the place of destination. The orphaned child is in safe custody and under guardianship of the sister of the deceased,” he said, adding that his statements were based on the instructions received and the recorded statement of Md Wazir.Awaiting instructions from the standing counsel in the Supreme Court, the bench fixed June 3 as the next date of hearing. “Let complete facts be made known to the Court, on the personal affidavit of the concerned Principal Secretaries before the next date,” it added.Earlier, the court raised several queries, viz. whether the postmortem of the dead-body was conducted? If yes, what was the cause of death? Did the woman actually die of hunger? Was she travelling alone with her sibling? If not, who all were her companions? Who is now taking care of the children/sibling(s), who unfortunately lost their mother?It issued notices to the union of India through the principal secretary, disaster management, New Delhi, the state of Bihar through its chief secretary, the departments of health & family welfare, disaster management, home, social justice through their principal secretaries, the Indian Railways and the IG (Police).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shocking-patna-hc-on-viral-video-of-toddler-trying-to-wake-up-dead-mother/story-rpXTIT7ybwrFdQEXf4VBYP.html
28-05-2020||India||Jaishankar discusses post-Covid-19 economic recovery with EU foreign policy chief||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Thursday held discussions with European Union foreign policy chief Josep Borrell on initiatives to promote post-Corona economic recovery and preparations for the 15th EU-India Summit.Jaishankar said they also shared perspectives on technology, connectivity and security.“Concluded a review meeting of #IndiaEU relations with EU HR/VP @JosepBorrellF. Discussed initiatives to promote post-Corona economic recovery. Underlined our shared perspectives on technology, connectivity and security. Preparing for India-EU Summit,” Jaishankar said in a tweet.In a statement, the EU said the main topics of their conversation were the response to the coronavirus pandemic and preparations for the 15th EU-India Summit, which had been postponed in March due to the outbreak of the virus.Borrell and Jaishankar confirmed the commitment of both the EU and India to work together to overcome the global pandemic and stressed the importance of an effective global socio-economic recovery, the statement said. Borrell also thanked Jaishankar for India’s assistance in facilitating the repatriation of over 11,000 EU tourists from India. “They agreed on the need to ensure the flow of crucial medical supplies, and on keeping global trade and value chains open,” the statement said.“Borrell and Jaishankar agreed that the current pandemic made the EU-India Strategic Partnership even more relevant. This was true in terms of joining efforts to strengthen the multilateral system, as well as in further developing the bilateral relationship, including trade and investment and security cooperation,” the statement said.The two leaders also discussed preparations for the EU-India Summit, which will be held as soon as possible, it said. “They looked forward to the Summit as an important opportunity to advance on all aspects of the EU-India relationship. They also discussed relevant foreign policy topics, including Afghanistan, China, and Iran,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-discusses-post-covid-19-economic-recovery-with-eu-foreign-policy-chief/story-1Igb74PVsrjJSTQeR4njCK.html
28-05-2020||India||Covid latest: Four deaths in Chhattisgarh quarantine centres in 48 hours||Three kids and one pregnant woman lodged in quarantine centres of Chhattisgarh have died in the last two days while the state government attempts to improve the management of quarantine facilities.The deaths were reported from Balod , Gariyaband, Kabirdham and Gaurela-Pendra-Marwahi district of the state.On Thursday morning, a pregnant woman died at the quarantine centre of Darnighoda village panchayat in the Gariyaband district. The deceased was identified as Bhagwati Yadav (25) who was put in quarantine after she returned along with her father from Telangana.Chief Medical Officer of Gariyaband district, NR Navrantna, told Hindustan Times that Bhagwati was severely anaemic. “She was rushed to the government hospital in Raipur on May 14, but after spending six days there, she ran away from Raipur and came back to the quarantine centre. We got her checked twice... but on Thursday morning, she died. The body was sent for postmortem and the report is awaited,” said the CMO.Similarly, a five-month old infant living with his parents in Bhardakala quarantine centre in Balod district died on Thursday.“The infant’s name was Nishant and his parents came from Chandrapur (Maharashtra) on May 14. The baby was not feeling well and on May 24 his sample was taken, which was sent to Raipur on May 25. Since his condition was deteriorating, he was brought to the district hospital in Balod on Wednesday, but on Thursday morning he died,” said sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Balod S Thomas.On Wednesday, death of a two-year-old kid was reported from the newly formed Gaurela-Pendra Marwahi district of the state.“The father of the kid returned from Bhopal. The kid was having some respiratory problem due to which the death took place. Her mother was feeding her milk before she went to the bathroom. When she returned, she found her dead. Later, in the postmortem, it was found that she got choked on the milk,” a senior administrative official told Hindustan Times.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe officer further added that the girl’s entire family had to be quarantined because her father, who had returned from Bhopal on May 18, ran away to his family in the village from the quarantine centre. “The villagers informed us and then the whole family was quarantined,” said the officer.A three-month old from Kabirdham district was the second infant to perish on Wednesday.“The kid was having problems with milk intake, he was shifted from the quarantine centre and admitted to district hospital on May 25. A day after he was reported to be normal but died on Wednesday,” said Block Medical Officer Sanjay Kharsan.Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Wednesday said that zonal officers have been appointed for monitoring of quarantine centers across the state.Each quarantine centre will have an in-charge officer to monitor the availability of basic facilities including health check-up and corona diagnosis test. The in-charge officers will be responsible for ensuring compliance of guidelines for operating the facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-latest-four-deaths-in-chhattisgarh-quarantine-centres-in-48-hours/story-R1GNWHYo9MgXR5PQ6azPZK.html
28-05-2020||India||India rejects Pakistan’s condemnation of start of work on Ram Mandir in Ayodhya||India on Thursday rejected Pakistan’s condemnation of the start of construction of the Ram Mandir Ayodhya, saying the neighbouring country had no locus standi on the issue.Pakistan had on Wednesday condemned the start of work on the Ram Mandir amid the Covid-19 pandemic, describing it as part of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) efforts to advance a “Hindutva agenda”. It also contended the Indian Supreme Court’s ruling on the Babri Masjid-Ram Mandir issue last year was “controversial” and “failed to uphold the demands of justice”.Responding to Pakistan’s statement, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said, “We have seen an absurd statement by Pakistan on a matter on which it has no locus standi.”He added, “India is a nation served by the rule of law and which guarantees equal rights to all faiths. Pakistan’s Foreign Office may take time out and read their own constitution to realise the difference.”Pakistan had also said the Indian Supreme Court’s verdict “shredded the veneer of so-called secularism” and made it clear “minorities are not safe in India”.But Srivastava said: “Given its record, Pakistan should be embarrassed to even mention minorities. After all, numbers don’t lie even if they do.“As for the judiciary, Pakistan must realise that theirs is thankfully not the norm. There are others elsewhere with credibility and integrity that Pakistan understandably finds difficult to recognise.”Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan has repeatedly targeted India in recent weeks for its handling of the Kashmir issue and the treatment of the country’s minorities. India has rebuffed such criticism and said Pakistan should focus on ending terrorism emanating from its soil and the harassment of its minorities.Ending a decades-old dispute, the Supreme Court had in November last year paved the way for building a Ram Mandir by a trust at the site in Ayodhya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rejects-pakistan-s-condemnation-of-start-of-work-on-ram-mandir-in-ayodhya/story-3XfZWxYWttNRLR3a0ukdpL.html
28-05-2020||India||367 domestic flights operated till 5 pm on Thursday, says Hardeep Puri||A total of 367 domestic flights, carrying 30,136 passengers, operated throughout the country till 5 pm on Thursday, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said.Airports in West Bengal also started operations on Thursday, three days after domestic air travel resumed in India after a gap of two months.All scheduled domestic passenger services were suspended in India from March 25 to May 24 due to restrictions in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.Earlier in the day, Puri had said that 460 domestic flights carrying 34,336 passengers were operated on Wednesday.In the case of West Bengal, the minister on Sunday had said that the state will handle domestic flights from Thursday.“Figures for domestic flights for 28th May 2020 are in. Departures 367, 30,136 passengers handled. Arrivals 310, 25,530 passengers handled. Total movements 677 with 55,666 passenger footfalls at airports.“Total number of flyers 30,136. These are numbers till 1700 hrs for Day 4,” Puri said in a tweet. A total of 428 domestic flights carrying 30,550 passengers and 445 domestic services carrying 62,641 flyers were operated in the country on Monday and Tuesday, respectively. In February this year, when the lockdown was not imposed, around 4.12 lakh passengers travelled daily through domestic flights in India, according to Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) data. During the pre-lockdown period, Indian airports handled around 3,000 daily domestic flights, aviation industry sources said.A total of 16 asymptomatic passengers on seven different flights including 13 of them who travelled by IndiGo have tested positive for COVID-19 since the resumption of domestic air services on Monday, according to airlines data. Two of the three asymptomatic passengers who tested positive for the infection had travelled by Spicejet while one took a flight of Air India subsidiary Alliance Air. The Karnataka government, meanwhile, said on Thursday it has requested the civil aviation ministry to reduce the number of flights originating from five states--Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan--in the light of the high number of COVID-19 cases there, hours after a minister said it has “suspended” air travel from these states. Seeking to clarify his statement, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J C Madhuswamy maintained that Karnataka has not sought imposing a ban on flights from the five states as reported in some sections of the media.“India is flying high. Domestic operation figures for May 27, 2020 (till 23.59 hrs): Departures 460 with 34,336 passengers handled. Arrivals 464 with 33,525 passengers handled,” Puri had said earlier in the day on Twitter.If a flight takes off before midnight and lands in another airport after midnight, its departure and arrival are counted on different days, leading to a seeming mismatch in the figures of a particular day.The Delhi airport, India’s busiest airport, is scheduled to handle 147 departures and 145 arrivals on Thursday, said senior government officials.The Mumbai airport’s operator MIAL said it handled a total of 50 domestic flights on Thursday.International passenger flights continue to remain suspended in the country. Airports in West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Telangana and Tamil Nadu have been allowed to handle a restricted number of daily flights as these states do not want a huge influx of flyers amid the rising number of COVID-19 cases.While domestic services resumed in Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday, they restarted in West Bengal on Thursday.Though domestic flight operations across the country began on May 25, they could not be restarted in Kolkata and Bagdogra as the state’s machinery was involved in relief and restoration work after cyclone Amphan’s devastation.“Welcome Back, Passengers! Kolkata Airport saw the arrival of 122 passengers from @DelhiAirport after two long months and 40 passengers departed to Guwahati. Proper checks were followed, and regular sanitization was carried out in the terminal which was abuzz with passengers,” the Kolkata airport tweeted.On Thursday, eleven flights took off from Kolkata and an equal number arrived in the city, sources at the Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International Airport said.“A total of 1,745 passengers arrived and 1,214 passengers flew out of the city today (Thursday),” airport sources said.The airports in Kolkata and Bagdogra are permitted to handle 20 daily flights each from Thursday onwards.While it is not clear how many flights were handled by the Bagdogra airport on Thursday, the officials said 899 passengers arrived while 484 passengers departed from the airport during the day. The West Bengal government recently came up with a set of guidelines for people arriving in the state on domestic flights.According to it, those entering the state from Thursday must submit a self-declaration form, stating that they have not tested positive for COVID-19 in the past two months.The passengers will also need to undergo health screening after they arrive at the airport, the state’s guidelines said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/367-domestic-flights-operated-till-5-pm-on-thursday-airports-in-west-bengal-resume-services/story-lGxS5hQn4saaDSe3QwbaEN.html
28-05-2020||India||Two dead in Assam floods, 3 lakh people affected in nine districts||Despite relief from incessant rain in most parts of the state on Thursday, the flood situation in Assam continued to remain grim with one more death due to drowning and total number of affected people increasing to 3 lakh in 9 districts.According to the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), one person died at Lakhipur in Goalpara district on Thursday taking the total number of deaths in the first floods of the year to two.With around 2 lakh affected people Goalpara is the worst-hit district. Other flood affected districts are Dhemaji, Nagaon, Hojai, Darrang, Nalbari, West Karbi Anglong, Dibrugarh and Tinsukia.The total number of affected people on Thursday was 2,94,710 in 300 villages of 15 revenue circles. Flood waters have also affected crops in 21,572 hectares, the ASDMA report said.Nearly 16,000 people displaced by flood waters are taking shelter at 90 relief camps in four of the nine affected districts. Nearly 500 people were evacuated by boats and taken to safe places.The Brahmaputra flowed above the danger mark at Nematighat in Jorhat district while the Kopili crossed the red mark at Kampur in Nagaon district.Rainfall and flood waters have damaged many embankments, roads, and bridges and also led to erosion at several places in the affected districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-dead-in-assam-floods-3-lakh-people-affected-in-nine-districts/story-D13DOC8JEotm5xnQjroOlI.html
28-05-2020||India||Covid 19 latest: 115 new cases take Jammu and Kashmir’s tally past 2000||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 115 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday taking the overall tally in the Union Territory to 2036, however, the Thursday figure was much less compared to Wednesday’s 162 cases- the highest single day rise in coronavirus cases.The number of casualties due to the virus rose to 27 in the region after the 55-year old man from north Kashmir‘s Khanpora, who died at a hospital in Srinagar on Wednesday, was confirmed positive for the virus on Thursday.Officials said the man was referred from GMC Hospital Baramulla with fever and respiratory distress to Shri Maharaja Hari Singh(SMHS) Hospital in Srinagar.“The patient expired within hours of admission. His sample tested positive for SARS COV-2 (COVID-19) today,” said nodal officer, Covid-19, Dr Salim Khan.24 of all Covid fatalities in the UT are from Kashmir division and three are from the Jammu division. Officials said that of the new 115 positive cases, 101 were reported in Kashmir while 14 were in Jammu division.Of the 10 districts of Kashmir division, fresh cases were reported in Anantnag, Srinagar, Kupwara, Baramulla, Shopian, Budgam and Pulwama districts, taking the total tally in the division to 1,636.The highest jump was in Kupwara with 45 new cases including 44 travellers, while Baramulla recorded 16 new cases including 12 travellers followed by Srinagar and Budgam, 11 cases each. There were single digit jumps in other districts in the Valley..11 out of the 450 samples tested at CD Hospital were found to be positive, said Dr Salim Khan. “Among the positive cases, three are pregnant women from Anantnag and a doctor of Budgam posted in district hospital Shopian,” he said.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19In the Jammu division, the fresh cases were recorded in Jammu, Kathua, Udhampur and Reasi districts, taking the division tally to 400.Five more patients were discharged after recovery – one from Jammu division and four from Kashmir. So far, 859 out of the total 2036 cases have recovered, 763 of those are from Kashmir and 65 are from the Jammu division.At present, active cases in Kashmir stand at 849 and 301 in Jammu.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesTill date, 1.55 lakh people in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance — 37,009 in home quarantine, 55 in hospital quarantine and 38,021 under home surveillance. Besides these, 79,474 people have completed their 28-day surveillance period.The union territory had recorded the highest single day spike of 162 new cases on Wednesday with two deaths due to the respiratory disease. On Tuesday, a 90-year-old corona positive man died at Kashmir’s Sheri Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS) in Srinagar, while two persons – one each in Jammu and Kashmir divisions – died on Monday due to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-latest-115-new-cases-take-jammu-and-kashmir-s-tally-past-2000/story-pDbpda2qEZ8OUwd7uS2EpN.html
28-05-2020||India||10 Bihar migrant workers fly back home as employer plays Good Samaritan||Ten migrant workers from Samastipur are on cloud nine after their first flight from Delhi to Patna on Thursday because it was something they thought was virtually impossible.The man who made it possible for them to fly home is their employer - Pappan Singh Gahlot, a mushroom farmer of Tigipur village in Delhi, where the migrants used to work on a three-acre mushroom field.The 10 migrant workers from Shreepur Gahar village of Khanpur block in Samastipur district were stuck in Delhi during the lockdown, as they stayed back to complete some unfinished work in the fields. Forty of their co-workers had left for home before Holi.Gahlot who turned out to be a good Samaritan, arranged for their stay and food in Delhi during the lockdown. He even sent money to their families in Samastipur.That was not all.When the lockdown curbs were eased, he initially refused to allow them to go home by bus and then by Shramik Special trains but went on to buy them flight tickets worth Rs 68,000 as soon as the government announced resumption of domestic commercial flights.“My concern was that the migrant workers should not go home walking. The heavy rush in trains and buses dissuaded me to allow them to take the bus or train lest they contract coronavirus,” said Gahlot on phone from Delhi.On Thursday, the entire group of workmen — Naveen Ram, Mahesh Ram, Arjun Ram, Lakhendra Ram, Praveen Ram, Chandrashekhar Ram, Amarjeet Ram, Jeevath Ram, Dinesh Ram and Jitendra Ram — could not stop praising Gehlot enough. For them, he has become a demi-god.“Maalik (referring to Gahlot) came to see us off at the airport today and even handed each of us Rs 3,000 so that we can comfortably go home from Patna to Samastipur by road,” said Naveen.“We are going to go back to work for him in August,” said Mahesh, who was visibly elated after deplaning at the Patna airport on Thursday.“Their families have been working for us since 1993 when I took to mushroom farming. I never wanted to highlight the matter, but the media got a whiff of it when the workers were getting themselves checked for coronavirus at a hospital, days before taking the flight,” Gahlot added.The farmers landed at Patna by an IndiGo flight and promptly called Gahlot to express their gratitude.Over 19 lakh migrant workers have returned to Bihar from different parts of India by Shramik Special trains since May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-bihar-migrant-workers-fly-back-home-as-employer-plays-good-samaritan/story-37zIFXREvE5Lcm8R8OnEtL.html
28-05-2020||India||Home Minister Amit Shah speaks to all CMs, seeks their views on extension of lockdown||Union Home Minister Amit Shah spoke to all chief ministers on Thursday, and sought their views on extension of the ongoing nationwide lockdown beyond May 31, officials said.The telephonic conversations of the home minister came just three days before the end of the fourth phase of the lockdown.The nationwide curbs was first announced on March 25 to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus, and has been extended thrice.“The home minister spoke to all chief ministers and sought their views on extending the lockdown beyond May 31,” a home ministry official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-minister-amit-shah-speaks-to-all-cms-seeks-their-views-on-extension-of-lockdown/story-hmYJHPFL4yPirh6uc9eB1N.html
28-05-2020||India||Heat wave relents after light showers in parts of north India; slight dip in temps in Rajasthan||The intense heat wave that gripped parts of north India relented on Thursday with light and sporadic showers in Punjab, Haryana and Delhi, while Rajasthan saw a slight dip in temperatures after the mercury neared the 50-degrees mark a day earlier.Weather departments in these regions have forecast thunderstorm and light rains in the next 24 hours, with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecasting that heat wave prevailing over plains of northwest and central India will likely further abate from Friday.Cloudy weather and sporadic rain gave the national capital much-needed relief from heat wave.The mercury dropped several notches during the day and further in the evening as strong winds swept across the city and many areas witnessed light rain.The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded a maximum of 40.3 degrees Celsius, normal for this time of the year. On Tuesday, it recorded a high of 46 degrees Celsius -- equalling an 18-year-old record for May.The Palam Observatory recorded the maximum temperature at 41.8 degrees Celsius, down from 47.2 degrees Celsius on Wednesday. The IMD said the weather stations at Lodhi Road and Ayanagar recorded their respective maximum at 38.4 degrees Celsius and 40.4 degrees Celsius.Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), said a fresh western disturbance and easterly winds at lower levels caused the change in the weather.Dust storm and thunder storm with winds gusting up to 60 kilometers per hour is likely over Delhi-NCR on May 29-30,” he said.In large areas, heat wave is declared when the maximum temperature is 45 degrees Celsius for two consecutive days and severe heat wave is when the mercury touches the 47 degrees Celsius mark for two days on the trot.In small areas, like the national capital, heat wave is declared if the temperature soars to 45 degrees Celsius even for a day, according to the IMD. Uttar Pradesh’s Bundelkhand region experienced torrid weather conditions with Banda recording 44.6 degrees Celsius and Jhansi 44.2 degrees Celsius.State capital Lucknow got a little respite from the blistering heat and recorded 35.6 degrees Celsius, the MeT office said.Rain, thunderstorm and also dust storm have been forecast at certain places in Uttar Pradesh during the next 24 hours. Rajasthan’s Churu and Sriganganagar districts recorded 46.9 degrees Celsius. The temperature in Churu hovered around the 50-degrees mark for the past two days. It was 45.4 degrees Celsius in Jaisalmer, 45.2 in Bikaner, 45 in Kota, 44.3 in Barmer, 44.1 in Jaipur, 42.3 in Jodhpur and 41.1 degrees Celsius in Ajmer. The MeT department gas forecast dust storm, thunderstorm and gusty winds of 50-60 kmph is several districts.Light rain at isolated places and gusty winds on Thursday brought slight relief from the scorching heat in Punjab and Haryana as maximum temperatures settled below the 40-degree mark at many places.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, which received light shower, recorded a maximum temperature of 37.5 degrees Celsius, one notch below normal limits, the meteorological department said here.In Haryana, Karnal recorded a high of 35.4 degrees Celsius, down four notches while Ambala registered a maximum temperature of 36.6 degrees Celsius, three degrees below normal.Narnaul and Hisar, however, continued to sizzle recording respective maximums of 43.8 degrees Celsius and 44.1 degrees Celsius, though the mercury dropped by a couple of notches in comparison with temperatures recorded in these two towns over the past two days.Punjab’s Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala recorded below-normal maximum temperatures of 38.8 degrees Celsius, 38.7 degrees Celsius and 37.9 degrees Celsius respectively.The weatherman has forecast light to moderate rain and thundershowers at many places on May 29 and 30, and thereafter at isolated places in the state.In Kerala, the government has warned fishermen not to put out to sea from midnight tonight and prohibited fishing activities in view of the possible formation of a low pressure area over South East and adjoining Arabian Sea.The South West Monsoon is expected to hit Kerala on June 1, with a cyclonic circulation over the Bay of Bengal, according to the IMD.As per the IMD bulletin at 5 PM, there was a possibility of the formation of the low pressure area from May 31-June 4 and the conditions were likely to become favourable for the onset of the South West Monsoon on June 1 in Kerala.In the east, an overnight downpour, coupled with gusty winds, claimed at least two lives and dealt a fresh blow to the city and other south Bengal districts on Thursday, a week after Cyclone Amphan battered the state, leaving behind a trail of destruction.In North 24 Parganas, a 40-year-old man was killed and five others were injured after a brick wall collapsed on them, police said.One person died in a lightning strike at Durgapur in West Burdwan district, a disaster management department official said.Sources in the Kolkata Traffic Police said the squall, which started on Wednesday evening, left parts of Central Avenue, MG Road, Bidhan Sarani and Ultadanga heavily waterlogged for at least a few hours, inconveniencing workers undertaking relief work in the wake of the May 20 cyclone.In Howrah, several areas including Panchanantala Road, Shibpur, and Mandirtala remained inundated, with just a few shops lifting shutters during the day.Official sources said the heavy rain, preceded by the Nor’wester, has also disrupted life in Nadia, Hooghly, North and South 24 Parganas, East and West Midnapore districts, which are already under severe strain for the past eight days due to the cyclone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heat-wave-relents-after-light-showers-in-parts-of-north-india-slight-dip-in-temps-in-rajasthan/story-nhqotxmCMqtjzZkRRZK2WM.html
28-05-2020||India||Delhi sees highest single-day spike with 1,024 new Covid-19 cases, tally touches 16,281||Delhi on Thursday registered a record spike of 1,024 new Covid-19 cases, its highest single-day jump till date, taking the national capital’s total coronavirus tally to 16,281, according to state health department data.There were no deaths reported in Delhi during the last 24 hours and the death toll due to the highly infectious disease now stands at 316 in the national capital.At least, 231 coronavirus positive patients have recovered and been discharged from various hospitals on Thursday.ALSO READ | 3 Delhi Jal Board staff test Covid-19 positive, water utility’s office to be shut for 2 daysTill date, a total of 7,495 coronavirus patients have recovered and been sent home.The previous highest single-day spike of 792 cases was recorded a day earlier on Wednesday.This is the first time that over 1,000 fresh Covid-19 cases have been reported in a single day in the national capital.On Wednesday, the total number of coronavirus cases had been 15,257 in Delhi, with the death toll at 303.A total of 129 Covid-19 positive patients were admitted on Thursday in the capital’s Dedicated Covid Health Centres.The Delhi health department’s bulletin, however, added that the cumulative death figure of the capital refers to the fatalities where the primary cause of death was found to be Covid-19, according to a report of the Death Audit Committee on the basis of case-sheets received from various hospitals.India’s total Covid-19 count climbed to 1,58,333 on Thursday, according to Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-sees-highest-single-day-spike-with1-024-new-covid-19-cases-tally-touches-16-281/story-HDHCfGbO6ockdqENK6J5tL.html
28-05-2020||India||Karnataka bars transport from 5 states, then says it sought reduction of incoming flights||Shortly after the Karnataka government announced Thursday that it was suspending arrivals of flights, trains and vehicles from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, MP and Rajasthan into the state to contain the spread of Covid-19, it issued a clarification that it had requested for reduction in number of incoming flights from these five states.The government said that the request for reduction in numbers of incoming flights from the five coronavirus hotspot states for the next fortnight was ‘with the sacred intention that there may not be adequate quarantine facilities, if there is a huge turnout at a short span of time.’The decision was announced by law minister J C Madhuswamy after a cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa.However, Karnataka made it clear that it would bar people coming by road from Gujarat, TN and Maharashtra from entering the state. But those who want to go to these states would be permitted, the government clarified.These measures were announced after the state has seen a continuous spike in cases recently, mainly due to those coming from these highly infected states.On Thursday 115 more people tested positive for Coronavirus in the state – almost all of whom had travelled from other states. who had come back or entered the state – taking the cumulative tally to 2,533 cases including 834 discharges and 47 deaths.The government also issued a new SOP by which any person who has completed seven days of institutional quarantine and is asymptomatic can be permitted for home quarantine without a Covid test as long as the he or she undergoes medical checkup – which includes thermal screening where temperature has to be less than 37.5 degree centigrade and pulse oximetry should be greater than 94%.All elderly (above 60 years of age) and those with co-morbidities like blood pressure and diabetes are to be clinically evaluated before shifting them to home quarantine. All such people shall mandatorily be under home quarantine and their hands stamped as well as details entered into quarantine watch app. The government has taken this measure to ease the pressure on the institutional quarantine mechanism as a large number of people are coming into the state, Madhuswamy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-bars-transport-from-5-states-then-says-it-sought-reduction-of-incoming-flights/story-B01oVmCvOShlc6tYip4vgI.html
28-05-2020||India||India calls for ‘constructive and positive efforts’ to resolve border row with Nepal||India on Thursday called for “constructive and positive efforts” to end a border row with Nepal, saying mutual sensitivity and an environment of trust are necessary for handling such issues among neighbours.Earlier this week, the Nepal government deferred its plan to move a constitutional amendment in Parliament to update the country’s political map, which depicts Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura as part of Nepalese territory, after the main opposition Nepali Congress party sought time to discuss the issue.This development allowed some breathing room for the two sides to tackle the border row, which began after Nepal protested against India’s recent opening of an 80-km road to Lipulekh on the Chinese border. Nepal claims Lipulekh but the external affairs ministry contended the road was “completely within the territory of India”.External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a virtual news briefing that India is monitoring the situation in Nepal related to recent developments on the boundary issue. “We note this matter is receiving careful consideration in Nepal, taking its seriousness into account,” he said.“India is open to engaging with all its neighbours on the basis of mutual sensitivity and mutual respect, in an environment of trust and confidence. This is a continuous process and requires constructive and positive efforts,” he added, without giving details.Nepal’s budget for fiscal 2020-21 was presented in Parliament on Thursday, and much of the discussions within the House are expected to focus on it. The Nepali Congress is scheduled to meet on Saturday to discuss the constitutional amendment, while the government is planning to take up the matter again on Sunday.The constitutional amendment is necessary to give legal backing to the new political map. While India has said Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura are part of its territory, it has remained open to dialogue to resolve the issue.The ruling Nepal Communist Party has a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly or upper house of Parliament, enough to pass the amendment, but needs the support of other parties to pass it in the House of Representatives or lower house.Srivastava said India attaches “great importance” to its historical and friendly relations with Nepal. “In recent years, our relations have been on an upward trajectory which is evident from expanding and diversified bilateral cooperation and increased [Indian] assistance for development and connectivity projects,” he said.“This has resulted in timely implementation of several large-scale and critical projects. Even in these challenging times of Covid-19 pandemic, India has ensured unimpeded trade and supply of essentials, including medicines to Nepal, besides providing assistance in terms of medical supplies and other facilitation,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-calls-for-constructive-and-positive-efforts-to-resolve-border-row-with-nepal/story-bxdWWNdQZRIa2e715AfyAJ.html
28-05-2020||India||Covid-19 recoveries outstrip active cases in Odisha||Odisha achieved an important benchmark on Thursday in its fight against the Covid-19 pandemic with the number of fully recovered patients exceeding the number of active cases.The state which recorded its first case on March 15, had seen its numbers spike in the last fortnight before scripting a turnaround of sorts.“More than half of those affected with Covid-19 have been cured and have returned to their homes. Our death rates are among the lowest in the world. This is a big achievement for a state like Odisha and we the people of Odisha. Powerful nations of the world and big states of India, rich states have not been this successful in the war with corona. This is an extraordinary achievement for the Odia people,” chief minister Naveen Patnaik said in a pre-recorded video message aired on local TV channels.On Thursday, 75 Covid-19 patients in the state recovered taking the total number of recoveries to 887 while the number of active Covid-19 cases was 776 after 67 new cases were detected. The state’s Covid-19 tally is now 1,660.Additional chief secretary of health department, Pradipta Kishore Mohapatra said Odisha’s recovery rate is now around 49 per cent compared to the national average of 41 per cent.As per ICMR guideline, Odisha is discharging Covid-19 positive cases with very mild symptoms after 10 days of detection with a caveat that they should not have fever for three days consecutive days. Health authorities have also discontinued the practice of conducting two back-to-back tests on such patients before discharge.“The recovery rate will go up in the coming days as we are seeing more and more asymptomatic cases,” said Mohapatra.On social media however, Patnaik’s claims of Odisha’s lowest death rates came under fire with some pointing out that a state like Chhattisgarh has had no deaths.Renowned epidemiologist Jayprakash Mulyil also said this is not the time to boast about the lowest death rate. “We are still in the middle of a pandemic and it would be better to take stock after it is over,” he said.Meanwhile, chief minister Patnaik has urged the people to sing Odisha’s state song ‘Bande Utkal Janani’ at 5.30 pm on May 30 to motivate corona warriors.“Bande Utkal Janani was the original song of Utkal Sammilani during the movement for the formation of a separate province of Odisha. Now, it will inspire us to strengthen our commitment to the fight against coronavirus. It will provide us the strength to face the challenges ahead,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-recoveries-outstrip-active-cases-in-odisha/story-F6riNQjfSWfKVniuRa6UjO.html
28-05-2020||India||Coronavirus vaccine latest updates: 30 groups trying, many working at good pace, says govt||Nearly 30 groups in India, ranging from big industry players to individual academics, are trying to develop vaccines to fight coronavirus, Principal Scientific Adviser K VijayRaghavan said on Thursday.Of these 30, 20 are working at a good pace, he said.“About 30 groups in India, big industry to individual academics are trying to develop vaccines to fight Covid-19 of which 20 are keeping a good pace,” VijayRaghavan said at a media briefing. Without naming the entity, he said some players are at a pre-clinical stage and may reach the clinical stage by October. He said vaccine development currently takes nearly 10 years and costs around USD 200-300 million, but the aim the world over is to find a vaccine for coronavirus in a year. But this requires a parallel processing, he noted. “Instead of working on one vaccine and seeing whether it works for a 10-year period, and investing on that, we have to invest in 100 vaccines (development). The world is investing on more than 100 vaccines at the same time,” he said, adding that the entire process will now cost USD 2-3 billion. VijayRaghavan said it is also essential to go past the regulatory process without comprising on quality while finding a vaccine.Elaborating the work done by the Indian companies and institutions in vaccine development, he said efforts are being made to develop it within the country. On the other hand, Indian companies and institutions have also partnered with entities outside working on the same mission.He also cautioned that the logistics of making a vaccine accessible to everyone will be a big challenge as the most vulnerable lot will need it the most. Designing a new drug, he said, is a “very very big challenge” and just like a vaccine it takes a very long time. “Most attempts fail and thus you have to try a lot,” he said. He said the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) has been working on using different types of drugs for fighting the coronavirus. VijayRaghavan said the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research and the AICTE have also embarked on a drug discovery hackathon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-vaccine-latest-updates-30-groups-working-at-good-pace-says-govt/story-hesrUsPjjDbRHnSQBbCu9J.html
28-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 84 new Covid-19 cases in Kerala, CM slams critics for running down state and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times84 new Covid-19 cases in Kerala, CM slams critics for running down stateKerala reported 84 fresh coronavirus cases on Thursday in the highest spike yet to take the tally to 1,088 while a Covid-19 patient died to take the casualties to eight, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. Read more. NHRC issues notices to Centre, Rlys, Gujarat and Bihar over migrants’ woesThe National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) said Thursday that it has sent notices to the Union home secretary, the Railways and the governments of Gujarat and Bihar over hardships faced by migrants onboard special trains due to delay in services and lack of food and water allegedly leading to sickness and death of some of them. Read more.Hydroxychroloquine should be used as per guidelines, its benefits outweighs risks: Niti Aayog memberAs per the current available data, benefits of anti-malarial drug Hydroxychroloquine (HCQ) “outweighs” the risks, if any, Niti Aayog member V K Paul said on Thursday, asserting it should be used as per guidelines and recommendations made by the scientific community. Read more.Akshay Kumar apologises to Twinkle Khanna, says ‘mere pet pe laat mat maro’ after he forgets her in PadMan tweetAs PadMan completed two years of its release, Akshay Kumar lauded the team for placing their faith in a film on a ‘taboo’ subject and creating awareness about it. While he tagged his co-stars Sonam Kapoor and Radhika Apte in his tweet, he left out his wife Twinkle Khanna, who was the producer. Read more. TikTok rating on Google Play shoots up to 4.4 stars in just 24 hoursTikTok’s rating on Google Play Store has taken a completely different turn as it now stands at 4.4 stars. Just yesterday, the app’s rating was 2.9 stars and in less than 24 hours it has shot up to 4.4 stars. Read more.I’m getting my boobs out: Chrissy Teigen’s controversial home coronavirus test was in preparation for surgeryModel and Cravings cookbook author Chrissy Teigen recently faced backlash when she posted a video of herself getting a coronavirus test done at home. Read more.This choking seal was helped by rescuers, its thankful glance will melt your heart. WatchYou may have heard the phrase ‘not all heroes wear capes’. Some, like these sea life rescuers, wear gloves and use scissors as a tool for salvation.This just over 40-second-long clip was posted on TikTok by an account called ‘namib_naude’ on May 26. Read more. Assam floods: Brahmaputra continues to swell, around 10 lakh affectedWater level continues to rise in river Brahmaputra, as Assam deals with a major flood crisis. The Chief Minister said that around 10 lakh people have been affected by the deluge and around 9 districts are severely hit. Disaster Management authorities in the state said that around 321 villages are completely under water. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-84-new-covid-19-cases-in-kerala-cm-slams-critics-for-running-down-state-and-all-the-latest-news/story-lgGQ6BlPwgSjlHIE57JIeI.html
28-05-2020||India||‘Even God would have failed’: MP minister says loan waiver promise was a fraud by Congress||Farmers welfare and agriculture development minister in Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet, Kamal Patel, dubbed the previous Congress government’s farmers loan waiver scheme ‘a fraud’ committed on farmers while dropping enough hints that the present BJP government is not going to continue with the scheme.In the run-up to 2018 assembly elections, the Congress party had promised to waive loan of farmers up to Rs 2 lakh per head. The then Congress president Rahul Gandhi had backed that commitment by claiming that if Congress failed in keeping its promise within the first 10 days of coming to power, the chief minister would lose his post.After coming to power, the Congress launched ‘Jai kisan fasal rin maafi yojna’ to implement loan-waiver promise for about 5 million farmers to the tune of approximately Rs 55,000 crore. It added a rider that the loan waiver scheme will be implemented in phases with farmers having loans up to Rs 50,000 per head to be covered in the first phase and no waiver of loans for income tax payee farmers.The then government claimed to have waived off loans of 2 million farmers, worth approximately Rs 7,000 crore, in the first phase until March, 2019. The then chief minister Kamal Nath announced that about 1.2 million farmers would benefit from loan waiver of Rs 11,675 crore in the second phase that began as late as in December 2019.In an interview, Kamal Patel likened the Congress’ promises to that of a leader from his district, Harda, who used to contest assembly elections as an independent candidate with lofty promises to bring back India’s looted gold and silver from England, making temples of gold and people’s houses with silver and of making air travel so convenient that people could land helicopters in their fields to curb road accidents.For Coronavirus Live Updates“Congress knew it was not going to win the elections. It had won 58 seats in 2013 assembly elections and feared that due to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s welfare initiative, it might not win even 20 seats; hence they decided to tell lies only. The Congress Vachan patra (election manifesto) was full of promises to such an extent that even God would not have been able to fulfill it had he got down to Earth”, said the minister.Kamal Patel said, “The Congress tried to lure every section of the society. Farmers were promised Rs 2 lakh per head loan waiver that meant the waiver amount will multiply several times depending upon loan takers in a family. They promised Rs 4,000 per month to unemployed youths, Rs 1,000 pension to the physically challenged, regularisation of services to daily wagers and guest faculty in degree colleges and many other promises. Was this not fraud and deceit? That’s why I asked farmers to go and lodge FIR against the Congress leaders for committing fraud on them with a criminal conspiracy.”The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The minister said the BJP government was working on making farmers self-reliant so that they wouldn’t need loans.“In just two months, the BJP government headed by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had taken several decisions to increase income of farmers and make them self-reliant. The bar on the maximum amount of weighing of the agriculture produce at mandis had been done away with. This would save farmers’ diesel and time worth crores of rupees. Similarly, raising the limit of procurement for gram, lentil and mustard from 15 quintal to 20 quintal per hectare has resulted in additional income of Rs 762 crore to the farmers.Hitting back, the then agriculture minister Sachin Yadav said Congress’ loan waiver scheme was a response to farmers suicide during BJP’s 15-year rule in the state. He claimed the Congress government was going to launch the third phase of loan waivers from June 1 before it got toppled.“I challenge chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and agriculture minister Kamal Patel to tour the state with me to know the reality. The fact is, during the BJP’s regime of 15 years, Madhya Pradesh had earned a bad name as a state with highest number of farmers’ suicide cases due to wrong policies of the BJP. We waived loans worth Rs 11,500 crore of 2.66 million farmers in the first and the second phase and we were going to launch the third phase from June 1.”He added, “People are highly upset with the BJP government and will give a befitting reply to it in the ensuing bypolls in the state.”The state Congress spokesperson Abhay Dubey echoed the sentiment.“We had handed over a list of 21 lakh farmers to Shivraj Singh Chouhan ji at his bungalow when he was in the Opposition. There was no statement from him on this. But no one can help if BJP has decided to only tell lies. Congress will be back in power after the bypolls for 24 assembly seats and will not only waive the remaining farmers’ loans but also transfer some monthly amount in the bank accounts of migrant labourers,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/even-god-would-have-failed-mp-minister-says-loan-waiver-promise-was-a-fraud-by-congress/story-70JuFodkcU23NzgqdKIucL.html
28-05-2020||India||84 new Covid-19 cases in Kerala, CM slams critics for running down state||Kerala reported 84 fresh coronavirus cases on Thursday in the highest spike yet to take the tally to 1,088 while a Covid-19 patient died to take the casualties to eight, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said.Vijayan also put union minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan in his line of fire accusing him of portraying the state in a bad light.Muraleedharan who also hails from Kerala, had alleged on Wednesday that the state government was fudging its data to keep its records intact and its test rates were abysmally poor.Without naming Muraleedharan, the CM said people who cannot digest rapid strides the state made in its fight against the virus were spreading canards.“How can you hide statistics? The state’s mortality rate is 0.5 whereas the national rate 2.8. We have been following the guideline of the Indian Council of Medical Research in letter and spirit. And the Union Health Minister had lauded our efforts on a number of occasions. He even asked other states to make Kerala a role model. Despite this, some people want to portray the state in a bad light. People will realise their game-plan,” Vijayan said.The chief minister said one of the reasons for the low number of tests was faulty test kits the state received in initial days so it could not conduct mass anti-body tests as planned.“Since critics have no other points to raise they were harping on the same charges,” he said.Kerala will increase its tests by this weekend from a daily figure of 1,500-1,800 to 3000.“The state’s transmission rate is lowest in the country. People who criticise us will have to see this,” he said. Besides Muraleedharan, many experts have also questioned the state’s low testing rate citing statistics. While Kerala has tested only 60,685 samples in four months its neighbour Karnataka had tested 2, 28, 914 till May 27 and Andhra Pradesh 4,12, 714. Both states started reporting cases in March first week but in Kerala first case was reported in January last. Critics say the state failed to capitalize on its early advantage.Vijayan said the latest death took place in Thiruvananthapuram. The man came from Rajasthan and had to go to Telengana but arrived in Kerala two days ago after he boarded a wrong train. He was suffering from many other health complications, he said.Out of 84 new cases 31 are expatriates, 48 came from other states and five people got the infection from others. Out of the total of 1,088 cases 526 are active.As the number of cases rise, many health workers are also falling prey to the virus. At least 28 health workers have tested positive in the last two months and experts said this unhealthy trend will pose a serious threat to the overworked health sector. Poor quality personal protection equipment is a major reason for the sorry state, they said.The duration of the contact with patients often exposes medical professionals to the highly-contagious virus so the quality of the PPE kit is important. In some cases kits are inferior in quality and often reduce to a bundle of plastics.“We have to ensure the safety of our frontline warriors. Authorities will have to ensure foolproof PPE kits,” said health activist Dr N Sulfi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/84-new-covid-19-cases-in-kerala-cm-slams-critics-for-running-down-state/story-HzPksU8Y7MnoOh0NxI8t5K.html
28-05-2020||India||NHRC issues notices to Centre, Rlys, Gujarat and Bihar over migrants’ woes||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) said Thursday that it has sent notices to the Union home secretary, the Railways and the governments of Gujarat and Bihar over hardships faced by migrants onboard special trains due to delay in services and lack of food and water allegedly leading to sickness and death of some of them.In a statement, it observed that the “state has failed to protect the lives of the poor labourers onboard the trains”.It said it has taken suo motu cognizance media reports that the trains which are ferrying the migrant labourers are not only starting late but are taking many additional days to reach their destinations.“In one of the reports, it is alleged that many migrant labourers lost their lives during their journey by train due to longer duration and no arrangements for drinking water and food etc,” the NHRC said.Two persons reportedly died in Muzaffarpur and one each in Danapur, Sasaram, Gaya, Begusarai and Jehanabad in Bihar, including a 4-year-old boy. All of them reportedly died due to hunger.“In another incident, a train reportedly started from Surat district in Gujarat for Siwan in Bihar on May 16 and reached Bihar on May 25, after nine days,” the NHRC said.The Commission has observed that the contents of the media reports, if true, amount to gross violations of human rights. The aggrieved families have suffered irrevocable loss, it said.It has issued notices to the chief secretaries of Gujarat and Bihar, Chairman of the Railway Board (CRB) and Union home secretary seeking detailed reports.The chief secretaries of the government of Gujarat and Bihar are expected to specifically inform as to what steps were taken to ensure basic facilities, including medical help for the migrant labourers who boarded the trains, it said. The response from all the authorities is expected within four weeks positively, the statement said.On Wednesday, at least seven deaths were reported aboard Shramik Special trains that have been deployed to ferry stranded migrants but the Indian Railways said most died of existing illnesses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nhrc-issues-notices-to-centre-rlys-gujarat-and-bihar-over-migrants-woes/story-BMX3XwjmAvccVzVY7QRzgO.html
28-05-2020||India||Pune focuses on senior citizens in view of 56% deaths due to Covid-19||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to pay greater attention to senior citizens in Covid-19 containment zones since the highest number of coronavirus fatalities in the city are among them.As of May 27, a total of 273 people have died due to Covid-19 in Pune, with people above the age of 60 accounting for 153 of those deaths. As per PMC data, senior citizens account for almost 56 percent of the total deaths in the city due to the contagion.Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “Fatalities are highest among people above the age of 60 and in many cases there have been late admissions, as a result of which they are critical at the time of admission itself. The PMC has now decided to concentrate on this group to bring down the death ratio of senior citizens.”He said instructions have been given to the medical staff to focus on the check-up of senior citizens in the containment zones. This would include a basic check-up, temperature, blood sugar levels, blood pressure and other illnesses. Specialists from Indian Medical Association will assist in the check-up for chest pain and diabetes, he said.Also Read: Covid-19 cases in Pune district climb to 6,643; death toll 298This would include a swab test for those with primary symptoms of Covid-19.PMC health officer Ramchandra Hankare said, “We are concentrating on the containment zones mainly. As the senior citizens are turning critical after becoming positive, we have decided to keep focus on them and do their check-up in the containment zones.”Pune city has a total of 65 containment clusters which are located in high density areas. A number of slums in the city have turned into containment zones, with the most critical ones located in Bhavani Peth and Kasba-Vishrambaug wards.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesA civic officer said the PMC is gathering data on senior citizens from various sources such as senior citizens’ organisations, senior citizens’ cell with Pune police and through door-to-door surveys. The civic body is also planning to bring restrictions on the movement of senior citizens in the containment and other zones in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pune-focuses-on-senior-citizens-in-view-of-56-deaths-due-to-covid-19/story-XePQQgepftpHB0VpX8esiL.html
28-05-2020||India||Engaged with China to resolve border row peacefully: India on Trump’s offer to mediate||India on Wednesday said it was engaged with China to resolve the border issue while reacting to US President Donald Trump’s offer to mediate between the two countries to settle the festering dispute.“We are engaged with the Chinese side to peacefully resolve it,” External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said, replying to a volley of questions at an online media briefing.In the midst of the tense border standoff between India and China, Trump on Wednesday said he was “ready, willing and able to mediate” between the two countries.“We have informed both India and China that the United States is ready, willing and able to mediate or arbitrate their now raging border dispute,” Trump said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/engaged-with-china-to-resolve-border-row-peacefully-india-on-trump-s-offer-to-mediate/story-1G3ZWFdyisKSZ7z9S7G8rM.html
28-05-2020||India||Law school grads arrange flight for over 165 Jharkhand migrants stranded in Mumbai||Over 165 migrant workers were ferried back home to Jharkhand from Mumbai in a chartered flight, which was arranged by the alumni network of a Bengaluru-based law school, making it the first such instance in the country amid the coronavirus-triggered lockdown, an official statement said.The Air Asia flight carrying 169 migrant workers and five children left the western metropolis at 6.25 am and reached Ranchi, the Jharkhand capital, around 8.25 am, an airline spokesperson said.The spokesperson said the National Law School (NLS) alumni association had taken on lease a 180-seater A320 plane, a first such charter operation by the budget carrier since passenger services resumed in the country.“AirAsia India is proud to be a part of this initiative that helps migrant workers, adversely impacted by the lockdown, reach their homes and families.“We have been working closely with the organisers, alumni of the National Law School, who we understand have independently crowdfunded their efforts to assist and repatriate migrant workers from Mumbai to Ranchi,” the official said in a statement.At Ranchi’s Birsa Munda Airport, the migrant workers underwent a medical screening and the administration provided them with food packets, before sending them off to quarantine centres in different districts of Jharkhand in buses.Expressing gratitude to the alumni association of the law school in Bengaluru, Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren said, “This is the first time in the country that a plane brought mazdoor back during the lockdown. I appreciate the effort of the Alumni Network of National Law School, Bengaluru.” Shyel Trehan, one of those behind the initiative, said in the statement, “We are happy to have made this very small contribution to addressing a massive travesty. I would like to thank AirAsia for all their support.” “This was a massive group effort with Priya Sharma, Department of Humanities and Social Sciences, IIT Bombay, and the alumni from the National Law School working together,” Trehan said.One of the workers, after completing the formalities at the airport, said he would want to thank the law school alumni network and the state for ensuring his safe return.“I work as a welder in Mumbai. All of us are happy to return. I would like to thank everybody who facilitated our return,” he told reporters.Soren, on his part, said the state is committed to bringing back all the migrant workers stranded in different corners of the country and in this endeavour, the “government has established communication with the Centre”. PTI PVR IAS RMS RC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/law-school-grads-arrange-flight-for-over-165-jharkhand-migrants-stranded-in-mumbai/story-xSO1u8nB8HPpzci0b0u7KO.html
28-05-2020||India||32-year-old cancer patient tests Covid-19 positive hours after his death in Uttarakhand||A 32-year-old cancer patient in Uttarakhand’s Nainital district, who died on Thursday morning while in home quarantine, tested positive for Covid-19 hours after his death. Health officials have attributed his death to cancer and not coronavirus.The cancer patient was a resident of Ramnagar and had returned from Delhi on May 25 where he was undergoing treatment since the past four months. Dr. Bharti Rana, chief medical officer of Nainital said the health department was not aware of the patient’s travel history to Delhi.“He was being treated at a private hospital for quite some time, where the doctors took his samples for testing. Meanwhile, the patient was sent home where he died on Thursday. As of now, we will isolate all his family members and take their samples for testing. Personal protection kits have also been given to the family members for protection while completing the rituals,” said Dr. Rana.On Monday, another person was declared Covid-19 positive four days after his passing on May 21. The Monday health bulletin acknowledged that the 48-year-old man, who had returned from Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh and was under home-quarantine, had tested positive for disease but didn’t name the virus as the cause.For Coronavirus Live Updates“As per protocol the man’s samples were sent for RTPCR examination on May 22 which was detected as positive for Covid-19. The cause of death could not be ascertained as per the post-mortem examination report. Hence viscera is preserved and sent for histo-pathological analysis.”Dr. Manoj Bahukhandi, chief medical officer of Pauri Garhwal district said that a team of doctors had been sent to the village of the cancer patient to analyse the situation and take samples of his close contacts. This is the fourth Covid-19 case where the cause of death is not being attributed to the deadly virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/32-year-old-cancer-patient-tests-covid-19-positive-hours-after-his-death-in-uttarakhand/story-pFOYg4PnhvYG2bRpIv5O1J.html
28-05-2020||India||1 lakh Indians to be brought back by end of Vande Bharat phase 2 mission: MEA||Close to one lakh Indians stranded abroad will be brought back home by the end of the second phase 2 of the Vande Bharat Mission, MEA sources said.The second phase of the mission ends on June 13.Some 3,08,200 Indians have registered with the missions abroad to come back home amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The navy will make four sorties to Sri Lanka, Maldives and Iran to bring back stranded Indians.At least, 5000 Indians have come back by land borders of neighbouring Nepal and Bangladesh recently.Last week, the government had added 141 more flights to West Asian countries for the second phase of the Vande Bharat Mission, its massive repatriation programme for citizens stranded abroad because of Covid-19-related travel restrictions.The flights were added due to increased demand from citizens stranded in West Asian countries and the availability of adequate quarantine facilities in states for the returning Indians. As with all the flights operated so far under Vande Bharat Mission, priority would be given in the second phase also to Indian nationals with valid reasons for returning to the country.The second phase of the repatriation programme began on May 16 and will continue till June 13.Almost all the flights being sent will be by state-run Air India and its subsidiary Air India Express. Private airlines too are likely to be included in the third phase of the Vande Bharat Mission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-lakh-indians-to-be-brought-back-by-end-of-vande-bahrat-phase-2-mission-official/story-nJuqUgX6xfepGUwSHmakSK.html
28-05-2020||India||‘If you cheat, then…’: CPI (M) legislator in welcome speech to new members||CPI (M) legislator PK Sasi, stating the “party policy”, is heard telling new members that if they cheat the party by leaving it, it will go to any lengths to “trouble them”.“If you are with the party it will protect you come what may, but if you cheat it will go to any extent to trouble you. That is the policy of our party for long,” he said addressing a group of Muslim League workers who quit the party to join the ruling CPI(M). The controversial law-maker, who was earlier suspended from the party for alleged sexual misconduct, made the speech in Shornur (Palakkad) on Wednesday. He also said the party will support everyone who believes in its ideology come what may and it has a strong bond with workers. It is not clear how the speech got leaked to the media. As controversy swirled around his speech, he expressed regret by saying it was a slip on his part. “I spoke these words just to inspire a group of people who left our rival party to join us. It was a party function and I should not have used such words. I really regret it,” he said. The Congress and the BJP have sought action against him, saying “he was spelling out the violent nature of the party.” The ruling CPI(M) is yet to comment on his speech but many leaders expressed serious reservations over it, saying “it was unwarranted and uncalled for”. The video shows that more than 25 people attended the meeting and social distancing norms were flouted. “They are beyond the law of the land. They can indulge in anything and get away. The party is there to protect them,” said Congress MLA Anil Akkara, who is in home quarantine with three party MPs for meeting stranded people along the Tamil Nadu-Kerala border two weeks back.A legislator from Shornur Sasi was suspended from the party for six months last year after a woman leader filed a sexual harassment complaint against him. Later a two-member party commission, which investigated the complaint, found no evidence of sexual advances, but his telephonic conversation with the complainant was not suited to the stature of a Communist leader. Subsequently, action was taken against him.Later he was welcomed back into the party fold. The complainant did not file a police complaint as directed by the party. Though the Congress and BJP asked the party to hand over her complaint to the police it refused saying it was an internal matter of the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-you-cheat-then-cpi-m-legislator-in-welcome-speech-to-new-members/story-x0ZuAGnITvji2KW6U9oCVO.html
28-05-2020||India||Manipur’s Covid-19 tally goes up to 55 with 11 new cases||Manipur has reported 11 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases in the last 24 hours, as the overall tally in the state rose to 55, health officials said on Thursday.Dr Kh Sasheekumar Mangang, additional deputy director and spokesperson of the state health department, in a press release said that seven and four people tested Covid-19 positive at Regional Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) and Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Medical Sciences (JNIMS), Imphal, respectively. “The patients, whose conditions are stable, will be shifted to Covid-19 centres at RIMS and JNIMS,” the release said. A patient, who was admitted to the JNIMS after showing symptoms of the viral disease, was discharged on Thursday after he tested negative a day before, the release added.So far, five Covid-19 patients have recovered in Manipur, including four in April and May. There are still 50 active Covid-19 positive cases in the state amid growing fears of a spike, as more people are arriving on a daily basis by all modes of conveyance because of the easing of lockdown restrictions, which were imposed from March 25 to contain the spread of the viral outbreak.On Thursday, two special trains, carrying over 1,301 stranded people, from Kerala and Gujarat arrived at Jiribam railway station, the only railhead in the landlocked north-eastern state and located about 220 kilometres west of the state capital, Imphal.Later, the passengers were taken to quarantine centres, as per the state government’s guidelines. So far, 17 special trains, carrying stranded people from Manipur, have arrived at Jiribam.Similarly, 1,485 passengers, including 173 on Thursday, have come back by air after domestic flight services resumed on May 25, sources said.Manipur has tested 7,758 people for Covid-19 till Thursday. A total of 10,489 and 3,709 are lodged at community and institutional quarantine centres, respectively, another official source added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-s-covid-19-tally-goes-up-to-55-with-11-new-cases/story-HLDCTR65EOWPHF7jPnx00J.html
28-05-2020||India||Karnataka suspends all transport from 5 states to stem Covid-19 spread||Karnataka on Thursday announced that it was suspending arrivals of flights, trains and vehicles from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan into the state to contain the spread of Covid-19, ANI reported.Among these five states, Maharashtra has the largest number of Covid-19 cases at over 56,000 followed by Tamil Nadu with more than 18,000 and Gujarat with more than 15,00 cases. Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh have over 7,000 cases each.Karnataka recorded 115 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday to take the state’s tally to 2533, the state’s health department said.Domestic flights which resumed on Monday after a two month lockdown will now not be able to fly into Bangalore form these five states.Much of the rail traffic in recent times has been Shramik Special trains ferrying stranded migrant workers home to different parts of the country.Among the five states that it has put on the blacklist, Karnataka shares borders with Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-suspends-all-transport-from-five-states-to-stem-covid-19-spread/story-XFc8w9wPBtu6HT2sGBl8mJ.html
28-05-2020||India||In Bengal, more than 400 migrants test positive for Covid-19, state count soars||More than 400 migrant workers who returned from other states over the recent weeks have tested positive for Covid-19, resulting in a surge of Covid-19 cases in West Bengal’s rural areas.Of them, the districts of Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum, Hooghly and Howrah are the most affected, as most of the state’s migrant workers hail from these districts. Of Bengal’s 23 districts, only two in north Bengal are presently unaffected by Covid-19.Malda, Uttar Dinajpur, Birbhum and Bankura had been among the districts unaffected by Covid-19 till two weeks ago. However, over the past one week, Malda has recorded 70 new Covid-19 cases and Murshidabad 53 new cases, while Hooghly and Howrah have recorded 84 and 98 cases, respectively, from the rural areas of these districts. Bankura has recorded 15 cases and Nadia 19 cases while East Burdwan has recorded 21 new coronavirus cases.“Most of those who tested positive for Covid-19 in the past week, except for those in Kolkata, were migrant workers. We anticipate the numbers to go up as more results are awaited,” said a senior state government official who did not want to be identified.On Wednesday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee blamed the Centre for forcing the state to accept more migrant workers than its intake capacity, given the precautions that needed to be maintained.“The Centre’s unplanned movement of migrant workers is turning rural Bengal red. It will also turn rural India red,” CM Banerjee said.The state government has decided to requisition more schools to turn them into institutional quarantine centres for returning migrant workers. Those returning from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Delhi will be sent to institutional quarantine centres, the administration has decided.Banerjee’s statement, however, has created a political controversy. Congress’ Lok Sabha leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said, “It is utterly insensitive for the chief minister to blame migrant workers for the spread of Covid-19. Migrant workers have been one of the biggest victims of this lockdown. We should sympathize with them and create proper infrastructure and management,” Chowdhury said.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state unit president Dilip Ghosh, too, took digs at her. “The CM is treating the migrant workers unfairly. It is because of the state’s inability to create jobs that they went to other states in search of jobs. It’s the state’s responsibility to look after their well being,” Ghosh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bengal-more-than-400-migrants-test-positive-for-covid-19-state-count-soars/story-lq3SOm6tLNfzbk70m8mJsJ.html
28-05-2020||India||Excited, nervous, panicky: 10 stranded migrants board their ‘first flight’ of lifetime to reach Patna||Would they be allowed to enter with slippers? What would happen when the plane takes off? Would they be safe? The questions raced through the minds of 10 migrants on Thursday as they readied to fly home from New Delhi to Bihar, an unforgettable first flight made possible by the generosity of their employer, a farmer in the national capital.Getting through airport formalities was intimidating but they had help from an official who guided them till the plane. Excited, nervous and a little panicky as they settled in their seats, many closed their eyes as the plane taxied and then tilted sharply at take-off, Naveen Ram, among the 10 workers taking their debut flight, told PTI after landing in Patna.Some of them put their heads down on the table in front as the plane steadied in the skies, not daring to look out of the window even when the flight landed, Naveen said. All 10 farm workers, stuck in Delhi because of the coronavirus forced lockdown, belong to Samastipur in Bihar. They had never dreamed they would get on a plane but they did thanks to Pappan Singh, a mushroom farmer in Delhi’s Tigipur village, who bought their tickets.Recounting the experiences of the morning, one which they will remember all their lives, Naveen said people at the Delhi airport were looking at them when they entered carrying jute bags and wearing slippers. “We were not well-dressed like others. We didn’‘t know what we should do next after entering the airport because it was our first experience of travelling in a plane. We took the help of an airline official,” the 27-year-old said. A reporter from PTI, which first reported their story, helped arrange for an official to escort them through the airport and complete the formalities. Naveen, too, did not look out when the plane was taking off and landing. “We had been wanting to meet our families for some time but could not do so because of the lockdown, None of us had ever thought that we would be going home in a plane one day,” he said.But that was not the end of the thrilling ride for the group, catapulted to national news at a time when migrant stories are made of arduous journeys battling hunger and heat on foot, cycle, bus or train.Several mediapersons were waiting to interview them when they landed at Patna after the 6 am flight from Delhi, said Naveen’s fellow traveller and co-worker Jitender Ram.“We never expected to get so much attention. Yesterday, my friend phoned me, saying he was watching me on a news channel. We will always remember such a wonderful experience,” Jitender said.Asked whether he will come back to Delhi after the lockdown is over, Naveen said, “Definitely, we will come back to Delhi when our ‘malik’ calls us.” “How can we leave our employer who has cared for us so much? We will be returning by the end of August. We have promised him,” added Lakhindra Ram as his co-travellers nodded vigorously in agreement. Full of praise for their employer, who saw them off in Delhi saying that he looked forward to their return, the group left for Samastipur district from Patna airport in a vehicle arranged by their employer.Pappan Singh, who has helped rewrite the migrant narrative of tragedy and helplessness, said he called his workers every step of the way, from after they entered Delhi airport to when they stepped into the plane -- asking if all was okay, if they had taken their boarding passes, checked in their bags and safely made their way to the gate. “I wanted everyone to give them respect the way I do. I was very concerned as my workers were not well-dressed like other passengers. Some of them were wearing slippers and carrying jute bags.“I am happy that they have finally reached their home state,” Pappan told PTI.Pappan had booked tickets worth Rs 68,000 and gave each Rs 3,000 in cash so they did not face any problems when they reach their home state.He had completed all their medical formalities, in accordance with the requirements specified, so they have a smooth journey home. “These 10 workers would have left for their homes in Bihar in the first week of April on train but they could not go due to the lockdown,” he said, adding that he had made several attempts to send them back to their home state in a Shramik Special train but could not manage to do so. “I could not have taken a risk by allowing my workers to walk thousands of miles as it would have put their lives in danger because we are getting to know these days that migrants meet road accidents while going home,” he said. PTI BUN NAC SNS MIN MIN MIN MIN||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/excited-nervous-panicky-10-stranded-migrants-board-their-first-flight-of-lifetime-to-reach-patna/story-luTvuQfcESrqmh1npziHAJ.html
28-05-2020||India||Entire country but central government heard the cries of migrant workers: Sonia Gandhi||The Congress on Thursday stepped up its attack against the Centre on the migrant workers’ deepening crisis triggered due to the mishandling of lockdown restrictions that were imposed from end-March to contain the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Party chief Sonia Gandhi said the entire country, except the Union government, had heard the cries and felt the pain of migrant workers.In a video message posted as part of the Congress’s nationwide online campaign, she also urged the Centre to unlock its coffers to help those affected by the Covid-19-induced lockdown.The day-long “Speak Up India” campaign was launched by the opposition party to put pressure on the Centre to accept its demands for providing immediate financial aid to farmers, migrant workers, daily wage earners, and small businesses hit by the pandemic.The online campaign included messages through Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and YouTube accounts.Later, Congress leader Ajay Maken claimed that over 5.7 million party leaders and workers uploaded their messages on social media throughout the day. “The campaign reached out to around 100 million people. It was a massive virtual rally. #SpeakUpIndia was also the top Twitter trend worldwide,” he added.Gandhi said while the country is passing through a serious economic crisis because of the loss of livelihood of lakhs of people from all walks of life, the central government has not helped those affected the most by the pandemic.“It’s for the first time since the independence that such a spectre of pain and anguish has been witnessed, where lakhs of famished and thirsty labourers have been forced to walk hundreds of kilometres back home barefoot and without any access to medicines or transport,” the Congress chief said. “Everyone across the country except the government heard their cries of pain and trauma,” she added.Instead of loans, Gandhi said the government should provide financial aid to small and medium businesses in a bid to save millions of jobs. “Crores of livelihoods have been lost, lakhs of businesses and factories shut and farmers are running from pillar to post to sell their produce,” she said.Gandhi urged the Centre to unlock its coffers and help the needy by transferring cash of Rs 7,500 per month to every family for the next six months, ensuring safe and free travel of workers back home besides increasing the number of workdays to 200 under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), which was launched by the erstwhile Congress-led United Progressive Alliance government in 2005.The Congress had decided to open online fronts against the government because of the strict adherence to social distancing norms due to the pandemic. In a letter to state unit chiefs, the party general secretary KC Venugopal had asked them to mobilise around five million participants on all social media platforms to register their protest.Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi stressed the need to take the voice of the poor, migrant workers, small and medium businesses to the government.“India doesn’t need debt, India needs money. Due to Covid-19, a storm has come in India and the poor have been hurt the most. Migrant workers have to walk hungry for hundreds of kilometres across the country and the MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises), which provide jobs to crores of people, are shutting down,” he said.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi-Vadra cited the heart-breaking example of a toddler in Bihar trying to wake her dead mother at a railway station to highlight the plight of migrants.“We’ve seen the visuals of a son pulling a cart carrying his parents, a daughter taking her father 1,200 km on a bicycle, many people dying in trains, a child dying in the lap of his father and another child trying to wake up his dead mother on a railway platform. These visuals can make anyone cry. The country is pained to see such devastating visuals,” she said.The visuals of a toddler trying to wake her dead mother on a railway platform went viral on Wednesday. According to railway officials, the woman had a prior ailment.The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) hit out at the Congress for the campaign.“The Congress can neither rule nor play the role of a constructive opposition. What they did was a drama. The least their party chief could have done was taken a leaf out of BJP president JP Nadda’s book and instructed party workers to feed hungry people and provide whatever help was needed,” BJP leader Shahnawaz Hussain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/entire-country-but-central-government-heard-the-cries-of-migrant-workers-sonia/story-pUDyO5eK2t0DJjRgSWhAVI.html
28-05-2020||India||12 IndiGo passengers who travelled on four flights test positive for Covid-19||A total of 12 asymptomatic passengers who travelled in four flights of IndiGo have tested positive for Covid-19, the airline said on Thursday. Three passengers who travelled on Delhi-Jammu flight on Tuesday, six passengers who were on Bengaluru-Coimbatore flight on Wednesday, two passengers who were on Delhi-Coimbatore flight on Wednesday and one passenger who was on Bengaluru-Madurai flight on Wednesday tested positive for the novel coronavirus, the airline said. Domestic passenger flights resumed in India from Monday. Since then, 16 passengers of three different airlines have tested positive for COVID-19. On Thursday evening, IndiGo said in a statement, “A few asypmtomatic passengers who travelled on IndiGo flights were discovered to be COVID-19 positive on May 28, 2020. This included 3 passengers on 6E 955 from Delhi to Jammu on May 26, 6 passengers on board 6E 6992 from Bengaluru to Coimbatore on May 27 and 2 passengers on 6E 908 from Delhi to Coimbatore on May 27. Earlier during the day, the airline said in another statement, “An asymptomatic passenger who travelled on IndiGo on 6E 7214 from Bangalore to Madurai on May 27, 2020 was discovered to be COVID-19 positive during the mandatory testing at the quarantine facility in Madurai on 27th May.” The passenger had observed all precautionary measures, including wearing face mask, face shield and gloves, like other passengers on the aircraft, IndiGo added. “All our aircraft are regularly sanitized as a standard operating procedure, and the aircraft operating these flights were immediately disinfected as per protocol,” the airline said in both the statements. “The operating crew has been home quarantined for 14 days and we are in the process of notifying other passengers as per the government guidelines, to ensure safety of our passengers and staff,” it said in both the statements. SpiceJet had said on Wednesday that two of its passengers who travelled from Ahmedabad to Guwahati via Delhi on Monday tested positive for COVID-19.On Tuesday, IndiGo had said that a passenger who travelled on flight 6E 381 from Chennai to Coimbatore on Monday evening tested positive for the disease. Air India had stated on Wednesday that a passenger who was on an Alliance Air flight from the national capital to Ludhiana tested positive for coronavirus and a total of 41 people, including five crew members, had been quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-indigo-passengers-who-travelled-on-four-flights-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-bBpEclHc6mp2Pt0x1Z7UkL.html
28-05-2020||India||Covid-19: With revenues taking a hit, Rajasthan mulls selling, leasing property||Reeling under the Covid-19 lockdown, the Rajasthan government is exploring ways to generate revenue by disposing or selling unused properties, through leasing or by taking help of other financial tools.The revenue collection in Rajasthan in the first month of the 2020-21 fiscal has fallen by 70%. There was a shortfall of Rs 18,000 in revenue in the last fiscal, 2019-20.In a recent meeting chaired by the chief secretary, discussions were held on ways to generate revenue to support the state economy as it fights the coronavirus disease.“It was discussed in the meeting, how revenue can be generated, there are ways such as disposing unused properties and land or giving them on lease. But there are new ways also such as InvITs and consol bonds. The government is exploring all ways,” said a senior official, who attended the meeting.He said all department heads are asked to identify properties, which are lying unused and could be sold or given on lease. Every department has different rules and procedures, thus making it a time consuming exercise. To tide over it, they are looking to centralise the list of properties, land and buildings, and to create a special purpose vehicle (SPV) to look into it.The SPV will chalk out rules and procedures to dispense properties and if required necessary changes will be made in Rajasthan Transparency and Public procurement act, he said.“The market is not stable and chances of getting the right prices would be difficult. In view of which, leasing a property for 20-30 years could generate revenue for the state without selling any asset,” he said.In addition to it, options such as InvITs and Consol bonds are also looked into. He said InvITs are designed to pool money from a number of investors to invest in a project or assets that give cash flow for a period of time. Part of this cash flow would be distributed as dividend back to investors. Similarly, Consol bond, also known as perpetual bond, is a financial security issued by the government as a means of raising money. They are issued at a fixed price and bear a nominal fixed interest rate.Facing financial crunch, the state government had deferred a part of salaries of legislators and its employees, including the all-India services officers, such as IAS and IPS, in March.A finance department official had stated that the biggest drop in tax revenue was seen in stamps and registration and vehicle tax because there was virtually no sale of property and vehicles.The target for stamps and registration for April 2020 was Rs 466 crore, the state got only Rs 6 crore. Similarly, for vehicle tax, the target was Rs 500 crore, and the state has managed to collect only Rs 8 crore, which is a little more than 1 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-with-revenues-taking-a-hit-rajasthan-mulls-selling-leasing-property/story-b1RpPrJIL4rK0I457GJv4M.html
28-05-2020||India||Plan to auction Tirumala temple properties put off||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), which manages the country’s richest temple of Lord Venkateshwara at Tirumala in Andhra Pradesh’s (AP) Chittoor district, on Thursday decided against selling any of its properties, including plots of land, gifted by the shrine’s devotees over the years.A resolution to this effect was passed by the TTD trust board at its meeting held through a video-conference facility in Tirumala amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak in the country. The decision was taken following a controversy over the latest proposal by the TTD to auction 50 of its properties located in Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, and Rishikesh in Uttarakhand.The TTD kept the proposal in abeyance following the instructions from AP chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy because of severe criticism from the opposition parties, particularly the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and various Hindu religious groups.TTD trust board chairman YV Subba Reddy clarified that the decision to auction unviable properties was taken during the previous Telugu Desam Party (TDP) regime and at a recent board meeting, it was proposed to constitute teams to suggest a way forward about the earlier decision.“Now, the board has decided not to auction or sell any of the properties of Tirumala temple, including plots of land, buildings, and other gifts donated by the shrine’s devotees. In case of any encroachment of temple land or properties, the TTD will constitute a committee, comprising seers of various mutts, devotees, and board members, to find a way out to evict the encroachers,” Subba Reddy told media persons after the board meeting.The board also decided to order an inquiry into the decisions taken by the previous board during the erstwhile TDP government’s rule. “We’ve ordered a vigilance inquiry into the decisions of the previous board. We’ve also recommended to the government to take action against those who launched a malicious campaign against the TTD,” the chairman said.The board has resolved to adopt transparency in the allotment of guest houses on the Tirumala hills. Specific guidelines would be followed in the allotment of guest houses, he added.The board also decided to make all arrangements for the restoration of darshan for pilgrims in the post-lockdown scenario. “We’ve written to the state government to allow reopening of the temple for darshan by following strict guidelines to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Once we get permission from the government, we shall open the temple for darshan again,” Subba Reddy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plan-to-auction-tirumala-temple-properties-put-off/story-pQPx21BykGv3lo8UBzf0kK.html
28-05-2020||India||Mitron mobile app by 5 IIT Roorkee alumni is India’s answer to TikTok||In sync with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to think and use local, five Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Roorkee passouts have developed a video-sharing mobile application ‘Mitron’, as India’s answer to popular Chinese app TikTok. The app available in Google store has already been downloaded 5 million times.This app was developed by these five alumni from IIT Roorkee within two months and it has emerged as one of the most downloaded apps in recent weeks.Called ‘Mitron (friends) Indian short video’, this app has already witnessed a whopping five million downloads in Google Playstore just behind the Aarogya Setu app, which is widely being backed by the Indian government owing to its need for monitoring and fighting the Covid-19 epidemic in the country.Launched on April 11, Mitron has been devised to give TikTok users an Indian platform to make, edit and attach variations on their self-shot videos.Core developer of this app, Shivank Aggarwal, a 2011 IIT-Roorkee alumni said that the basic idea was to provide an indigenous platform to multiple users who are glued to TikTok and other foreign video sharing apps.Citing overwhelming response leading to various technical-network issues, Shivank said that a dedicated Mitron team is keeping a tab on all aspects and improving the features to make sure it becomes an uniform choice for all users.“While launching this app, we were quite optimistic of its success but five million-plus downloads in just less than two months has been a blessing for all of us (app developer team). Appreciation and response from the people have made us more determined to make it in sync with similar app variants at the global level. We named it in Hindi as we wanted to have a distinct identity of this Indian app,” Shivank said.Vaibhav Rawat, a B.Tech student residing in Smith Nagar, termed the Mitron app as having several features similar to other apps but with some distinct features too.“Mitron provides users with easy features to shoot, edit and share videos and at the same time users can browse top videos from across the globe. We can say goodbye to TikTok since now we have the Mitron app which people can use here,” said Vaibhav Rawat.App-software expert Akash Ohri pointed out that if the Mitron app has to ensure more user base then they need to have hassle-free shooting, uploading and voice features in the application.“Till date, there is a Swadeshi curiosity and charm. But if they don’t rectify the bugs and improvise, it won’t be easy to maintain the unprecedented growth that the team has witnessed in a short span,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mitron-mobile-app-by-5-iit-roorkee-alumni-is-india-s-answer-to-tiktok/story-tSNe781r4lm9wJP57WOZPL.html
28-05-2020||India||235 Indians stranded in Bangladesh return via three land border posts in NE||A total of 235 Indian nationals, who were stranded in Bangladesh for over two months, due to the nationwide ongoing lockdown restrictions, which were imposed on March 25 to control the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, returned to the country on Thursday via three land border posts in the north-east region.The repatriation was part of the Centre’s ongoing Vande Bharat mission – the biggest evacuation exercise since the invasion of Kuwait by the then Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein in 1990. A bulk of those returned home included students and workers from Tripura, Assam, Meghalaya and Manipur.A total of 129 people from Tripura returned through the Agartala-Akhaura border, where the Indian High Commissioner to Bangladesh, Riva Ganguly Das, was present to oversee their departure.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member of Parliament (MP) from West Tripura constituency Protima Bhoumik was present at the Agartala-Akhaura border to welcome the Tripura residents back home. The MP gifted face masks and hand sanitisers to the Indian High Commission team.Around 100 of the returnees from Assam came back through the Sutarkandi-Sheola border post and a few others from Meghalaya and Manipur returned via the Dawki-Tamabil frontier post in Meghalaya.Noni Gopal Dutta, a Tripura resident, was one of those Indian nationals, who returned home on Thursday. He had gone to Bangladesh as a tourist on March 11 and his visa was to expire on March 26. When Dutta reached the border post on March 23 to return to India, he was sent back, as the international border had been sealed because of the lockdown restrictions.“I immediately contacted the Indian Embassy officials, who took good care of me for the past two months. I had lost touch with my family for the past two months, as my mobile phone had got stolen. I’m excited to return home,” Dutta said in a video shared by the Indian High Commission authorities in Bangladesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/235-indians-stranded-in-bangladesh-return-via-three-land-border-posts-in-ne/story-bptmRV1nIGrIrnPuyUoOxM.html
28-05-2020||India||Fight against coronavirus will be won through vaccine: Niti Aayog member||As India’s Covid-19 infection tally climbed to over 1.58 lakh, the government on Thursday said the country’s pharmaceutical industries are trying their best to find a vaccine to beat the virus.“The fight against coronavirus will be won through vaccines and drugs. Our country’s science and technology institutions and pharma industry are very strong,” VK Paul, a member of the Niti Aayog said at a briefing.Like in many other countries, India’s scientific institutions are also working furiously to find a vaccine for the virus that has affected almost 5.8 million people across the world.The government’s Principal Scientific Advisor (PSA) Professor K. Vijay Raghavan who also addressed reporters at the briefing said the country is on the right track to develop a vaccine.“There are about a total of 30 groups in India, big industry to individual academics, who are trying to develop vaccines, of around 20 are keeping a good pace,” Raghavan said.He also spoke of a hackathon for computational drug discovery.“All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) and CSIR have embarked on a drug discovery hackathon - this is a high-end hackathon - where students are trained with information on how to do computational drug discovery,” he said.Asked whether the coronavirus has mutated since it first struck late last year, Raghavan said there has been no change in the fundamental properties of the virus.“We have not seen any change in the fundamental properties of the virus till now. In the next few months both nationally and internationally tests will be available that can be done on an individual,” he said.He also underlined the importance of the RT-PCR test regimen to detect coronavirus.“RT-PCR test is testing for the presence of the virus and is agnostic whether you have symptoms or not. Whether you are asymptomatic, if you have the virus it will be detected,” Raghavan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fight-against-coronavirus-will-be-won-through-vaccine-niti-ayog-member/story-kJu3M5QYhXQh3znv53dShJ.html
28-05-2020||India||As locusts invade Maharashtra, Centre assures Mumbai not in their path||The Locust Warning Organisation (LWO) under the Union agriculture ministry clarified on Thursday that there is no locust swarm heading for Mumbai and that the predators were currently restricted to eastern Maharashtra.“The invasion is restricted to parts of eastern Maharashtra with districts in Vidarbha affected in the state. The wind direction from Madhya Pradesh is favourable for their movement and food availability in these zones,” said KL Gurjar, deputy director, LWO. From Wednesday onwards, reports accompanied by unverified photographs across social media said a locust attack was expected in Mumbai from Gujarat from Thursday morning onwards. “Though locusts can survive in humid conditions of Mumbai, there is no warning for the city as the wind direction will not allow locusts’ movement to the coastal city from Gujarat,” said Gurjar.He added that the department was constantly monitoring the movement of the swarms and prior alerts were issued to the state but not for Mumbai and the rest of the Konkan region.“No such warning has been given for the Konkan region including Mumbai so far,” he said. The insecticide officer, Rajan Naringrekar, of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation confirmed they had not received any alerts from the state or central bodies about any locust attacks in the city. Double whammy for Covid gripped Maharashtra, now in throes of locust swarmsThe state agriculture department,too, confirmed that there was no indication of locust movement towards Mumbai. “We are constantly getting updates from the Locust Warning Organisation, and no such warning or alert has been issued for Mumbai,” said Suhas Diwase, agriculture commissioner, Maharashtra. “The wind direction is currently such that the swarms are present only towards eastern Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh border zone. If there was any indication of their movement to Mumbai, we would have issued an alert to district authorities but no such information has come to us so far.”The India Meteorological Department’s aerodrome meteorological division in Santacruz (for civil aviation services) said there was no visible difference in visibility on Thursday. “If there was a large locust swarm, it would have been spotted by us but nothing like that has been identified by us,” said Sunil Kamble, scientist, IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-locusts-invade-maharashtra-centre-assures-mumbai-not-in-their-path/story-9QgmrTMifaVYA8ZeQdYIQN.html
28-05-2020||India||254 attacks on Mumbai Police staff, helpline gets record number of calls: Deshmukh||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Thursday said that there has been a steady increase in the number of calls received on the police helpline 100, in connection with attacks on police personnel deployed during lockdown and also on frontline healthcare workers in the state. The minister said that a total of 254 instances of assaults on policemen had been recorded till date.“As many as 96,697 such calls have been received on the police helpline. There have been 254 instances of assaults on policemen that have left 86 of them injured. There have been at least 40 attacks on healthcare professionals too,” Deshmukh said. The helpline calls led to at least 833 arrests during the last two months, the state home minister said. Maharashtra, is the worst-affected state during the outbreak of the coronavirus disease and has reported over 50,000 Covid-19 positive cases, almost one-third of the country’s total count of coronavirus patients.A day earlier, on Wednesday, the Maharashtra Home Minister strongly dismissed reports about possible deployment of the Indian Army in Mumbai and Pune for 10 days amid rising coronavirus cases.“A rumour is being spread on WhatsApp and other social media platforms that the Army will be deployed in Mumbai and Pune to implement 10 days of strict lockdown. This is completely untrue,” Deshmukh had tweeted.“The Maharashtra Cyber Cell has initiated action against those spreading this rumour. Do not forward such messages,” he posted. Responding to the fake news that had been circulating, the Mumbai Police urged the people of Mumbai not to fall prey to it.“If it reaches you, break the chain and do not forward. All essential supplies will be available and movement permitted only as per lockdown guidelines,” the Mumbai Police had tweeted.The lockdown in Maharashtra is due to continue till May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/254-attacks-on-mumbai-police-staff-helpline-gets-record-number-of-calls-deshmukh/story-jV9G0ihHIUTHcaPrasNL4K.html
28-05-2020||India||Uttarakhand launches Mukhyamantri Swarozgar Yojana for returnee migrants||To retain the migrants who have returned to the state during the lockdown, Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Thursday inaugurated the Mukhyamantri Swarozgar Yojana.Rawat instructed the officials that information about this scheme should be conveyed to every village so that the youth can avail of this scheme.“This scheme should be widely publicised through public representatives and district level officers so that the maximum number of villagers can take advantage of it. Under this scheme, the district magistrate should coordinate with the bankers so that the beneficiaries do not have any problem in taking loan,” said Rawat.The migrants who apply under this programme will get quick approval from the authorities concerned and their applications will be forwarded to banks with immediate subsidy which will be 25% in the hill districts and 15% in the plain districts.The project aims at giving self-employment opportunities to youth and a boost to reverse migration, especially entrepreneurs returning to Uttarakhand and encourage skilled and unskilled artisans, handicrafts and unemployed youths to start their own business. The scheme will offer credit facility through nationalised banks, scheduled commercial banks and cooperative banks.Under the Yojana, the margin money will be provided as a grant by the MSME department. According to the MSME policy, the maximum limit for margin money in classified category A will be 25% of the total project cost, 20% in category B and 15% for projects of the total project cost in C and D category. Margin money will be adjusted as a grant after the successful operation of the enterprise for minimum two years.A person needs to be at least 18 years of age to be able to apply under the scheme. The applicant or his family member will be benefited only once under the scheme.Experts have termed this initiative as a game-changer especially in the hilly areas, while cautioning that much will depend on its implementation.Over one lakh migrant workers have returned to the state with more coming every day. SS Negi, vice chairman of state rural development and migration commission, which has been working on plans to curb migration from hilly areas, has suggested various measures to the government for the people. He termed it is a ‘game-changer.’“We have been suggesting to the government to start a similar programme in the hilly areas since last one year. And now when they have finally done it, we believe it will really fly off,” said Negi.The official said the commission has conducted a study in the hilly area in which they found that many people are already running their venture availing the benefits of PMEGP.“People there are running their own gymnasiums, beauty parlours, dhabas, mobile repairing shops and others. Now when there is another similar programme by the state, people will definitely avail this also,” said Negi.He said the initiative has come at the right time as the migrants who have returned have brought “valuable experience with them.”“The migrants who have returned are experienced in their work which they used to do in other states. If they go for the programme then they won’t have to do much because they already have the skills and experience. It will prove to be a force multiplier as after starting their ventures, they will employ other people of their respective areas,” said Negi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-launches-mukhyamantri-swarozgar-yojana-for-returnee-migrants/story-HXVC4p0Jx6n65iMjZ0Y2UK.html
28-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi issues advisory to tackle locust threat as capital braces for attack and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi issues advisory to tackle locust threat as capital braces for attackThe Delhi government on Thursday issued an advisory on preventive measures to control a probable locust attack in the national capital. Read more.‘No fare to be charged from stranded migrants, railways to give food during journey’: Supreme CourtThe Supreme Court on Thursday ordered the Centre to ensure free travel to stranded migrants to their home states by trains and buses even as the government contended that it is taking “unprecedented steps” to meet the challenging crisis during the Covid-19 lockdown. Read more.Double whammy for Covid gripped Maharashtra, now in throes of locust swarmsWhile Maharashtra’s struggle to contain coronavirus continues, it has now got a fresh headache in the form of swarms of locusts that have entered the state and were reported to be moving towards Gondia district on Thursday after having attacked crops in neighbouring Bhandara. Read more.Air India employee unions seek Rs 50,000 crore financial package for national carrierA joint forum of Air India employees and staff unions has sought a Rs 50,000 crore financial succour from the government for the national carrier, stating that the airline is a necessity for the country. Read more.‘I was rushing through deliveries’: Harbhajan Singh recalls when Pakistan’s Misbah smashed him for three sixes in 2007 T20I finalThe 2007 T20I final between India and Pakistan turned out to be an epic thriller. The memorable contest between the two teams in the inaugural T20I World Cup saw various twists and turns, but eventually, the MS Dhoni-led side emerged victorious after Pakistan batsman Misbah-ul-Haq scooped a delivery in the final over to Sreesanth at short fine-leg. Read more. Apple to let you customise MacBooks, iMacs etc in India: What this means for customersApple is going to let its customers in India customise the iMac, the MacBook, Mac Mini etc as per their needs. The tech giant has started offering their full Mac portfolio with a configure-to-order (CTO) or build-to-order (BTO) option in India. Read more. Despicable Me’s Gru and Minions share tips on social distancing, fun at home in new coronavirus PSAWho can forget the famous former supervillian Gru and his well-meaning but clumsy and adorably incompetent bright yellow Minions from the animated “Despicable Me” movie franchise? Read more. Netizens are calling this dog Hachiko’s brother, his story will make you reach for the tissuesRemember Hachiko, the dog who waited for his human in the same spot for years even after his death? This dog in Wuhan, China will remind you of that same story and the beloved dog Haachi. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-delhi-issues-advisory-to-tackle-locust-threat-as-capital-braces-for-attack-and-all-the-latest-news/story-2uGg2XuVt7sgymCURz3FNP.html
28-05-2020||India||HarperCollins to publish PM Modi’s letters to mother goddess||Many letters that Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a young man wrote to mother goddess, whom he addressed as ‘jagat janani’, every night on varied topics will be published in a book form in English next month.HarperCollins India said “Letters to Mother”, translated from Gujarati by renowned film critic Bhawana Somaaya, will be released as ebook and hardback. These letters have been taken from Modi’s diary, dating back to 1986.“This is not an attempt at literary writing; the passages featured in this book are reflections of my observations and sometimes unprocessed thoughts, expressed without filter...” a HarperCollins India statement quoted Modi as saying.“I am not a writer, most of us are not; but everybody seeks expression, and when the urge to unload becomes overpowering there is no option but to take pen and paper, not necessarily to write but to introspect and unravel what is happening within the heart and the head and why,” he said.As a young man, Modi had got into the habit of writing a letter to ‘jagat janani’ every night before going to bed. The topics were varied: there were seething sorrows, fleeting joys, lingering memories.“In Modi’s writings there was the enthusiasm of a youngster and the passion to usher in change. But every few months, he would tear up the pages and consign them to a bonfire. The pages of one diary, dating back to 1986, survived, however. These are now available in English for the very first time,” the statement said.According to Somaaya, Modi’s strength as a writer is his emotional quotient.“There is a raw intensity, a simmering restlessness which he does not disguise and that is his attraction,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harpercollins-to-publish-pm-modi-s-letters-to-mother-goddess/story-5oho5K5GtQ4qKnL46QLUUJ.html
28-05-2020||India||Double whammy for Covid gripped Maharashtra, now in throes of locust swarms||While Maharashtra’s struggle to contain coronavirus continues, it has now got a fresh headache in the form of swarms of locusts that have entered the state and were reported to be moving towards Gondia district on Thursday after having attacked crops in neighbouring Bhandara. An alert has been sounded in the Gondia district, reported PTI and added that authorities have swung into action to deal with the approaching menace. Locust swarms are currently also sweeping across several other Indian states in the western & northwestern part affecting Rajasthan, Punjab, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, according to the agriculture ministry.Authorities have confirmed that an agriculture team rushed to Bhandara in the early hours of Thursday to spray pesticides with the aid of two fire tenders in Temani village of the district after information on locusts reaching the areas was received. Pesticides were sprayed on crops and trees in one-km radius in the Bhandara village“When the team reached the area in the early hours, pests were seen on mango, teak, moha, jambhul, ber and other trees. Pesticides were sprayed and by morning, a large number of the crop-eating pests fell from trees and died,” divisional joint director of agriculture Ravi Bhosle said.He said that while the mango trees were the most affected, the pests ate leaves and left the fruits alone. He added that they couldn’t damage the paddy fields.The official confirmed that the locust swarms were now heading eastwards with the wind towards Tiroda tehsil in neighbouring Gondia district.The agriculture ministry had earlier released information that till May 26, an area of around 47,308-hectare at 303 places in Rajasthan, Punjab, Gujarat, and Madhya Pradesh had been covered by control operations against locusts. It added that the Locust Circle Offices (LCO) are working in coordination with district administration and state agriculture departments.Also Read: Centre steps in after locust attack spreads to 5 states, swarm splits into two: Latest updatesThe ministry has also deployed 89 fire brigades for pesticide spray; 120 survey vehicles; 47 control vehicles with spray equipment and 810 tractor-mounted sprayers for the purpose of locust control as per the requirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/double-whammy-for-covid-gripped-maharashtra-now-in-throes-of-locust-swarms/story-xA1tGkrritQkLrmU5spJvJ.html
28-05-2020||India||Assam reports 48 new Covid-19 positive cases; overall tally doubles in three days||Assam reported 48 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases on Thursday, as the north-east’s most-populous state’s overall tally rose to 832 and doubled in only three days.The return of around one lakh stranded people to the state since the easing of nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were imposed between March 25 and May 3 to contain the spread of the pandemic, and lifting the ban on intra-state travel is being attributed to the spike in Covid-19 positive cases.State health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said that over 90% of Covid-19 positive cases detected in the past three weeks are among those patients, who returned to Assam from other states.Assam recorded its first Covid-19 positive case on March 31, when a 52-year-old cancer patient contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease. It took another 37 days for the figure to reach 50 on May 7 and in 10 days to double to cross 100 on May 17. In another four days on May 21, the figure doubled to go past 200 and crossed over 400 in four more days on May 25. Of the total Covid-19 positive cases, nearly 700 patients have returned to the state by road or train since May 4. A passenger tested Covid-19 positive after travelling by air from Ahmedabad to Guwahati earlier this week since the resumption of flight services on May 25. Domestic air travel was suspended from March 25 due to the imposition of nationwide lockdown restrictions. Recovered patient tests Covid-19 positiveHealthcare officials in Assam are at a loss after a woman cancer patient, who had recovered from Covid-19 earlier in May, tested positive for the disease on Wednesday again.The woman, a resident of Upper Assam’s Golaghat district, had contracted the disease in Delhi during treatment for cancer in the national capital. Her husband and an acquaintance, who had accompanied her, had also tested Covid-19 positive. While her husband succumbed to the disease and was cremated in Delhi, the woman and her acquaintance recovered and returned to Assam on May 22.She was put under quarantine in a government-run lodge on the outskirts of Kaziranga, as per the state government’s guidelines. However, on Wednesday, she tested Covid-19 positive again. She has been shifted to the Jorhat Medical College (JMC) for treatment. “Her case could be one of false positive. At times, tests give false results. Similar instances have been reported from other states and countries. We have sent the patient’s test results to the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) and are waiting for the report,” minister Sarma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-reports-47-new-covid-19-positive-cases-overall-tally-doubles-in-three-days/story-lcEe3MBdHaqtdLIP7YnvIK.html
28-05-2020||India||Punjab police seize 8 kg heroin in Tarn Taran near Indo-Pak border||The Punjab Police on Thursday busted a drug smuggling racket seizing 8 kg of heroin valued at Rs 40 crore from a wheat field in the border district of Tarn Taran and arrested a smuggler who had allegedly buried the narcotic.Tarn Taran Police said the seizure was made by its anti-narcotic cell.The drug was buried in the wheat field situated across the barbed wire fence and ahead of the zero line near Rattoke village of Bhikhiwind sub-division on the India-Pakistan border.Police also arrested one Gurlal Singh of Rattoke village, who had allegedly buried the heroin concealed in plastic bottles. Police suspect the drug was smuggled from across the border.According to police, Gurlal and his accomplices who are yet to be identified had been in contact with Pakistani smugglers.Senior superintendent of police (SSP), Tarn Taran, Dhruv Dahiya said besides heroin, they have also recovered 30 gm opium from the border.“We were tipped off that Gurlal had buried a contraband of heroin in a wheat field near the barbed wire fence ahead of the zero line. Various teams under the supervision of deputy superintendent of police (DSP-Detective) Kawaljit Singh were formed. The teams with the help of the BSF personnel conducted search operations near the fence, and during this, five plastic bottles filled with heroin, that were buried in the wheat field, were recovered. The total contraband’s weight is 8 kg and 30 gms,” senior superintendent of police (SSP), Tarn Taran, Dhruv Dahiya said.He said Gurlal was arrested from the village.“The contraband is worth Rs 40 crore in the international market,” DSP Kawaljit Singh said.The SSP said preliminary investigation has revealed that Gural is a smuggler and had earlier been booked for attempted murder and also under the Arms Act in 2015 after he along with his accomplices allegedly attempted to cross the border and opened fire at the BSF to smuggle heroin from across the border. He was also booked in 2019 for allegedly attempting to break open an ATM machine with a gas cutter at Chabhal village.DSP Kawaljit Singh said Gurlal’s father Karnail Singh owns 10 acre agriculture land — four across the barbed will fence till the zero line and six along the fence in Rattoke village.The SSP said they expect to make more seizures and arrests in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-police-seize-8-kg-heroin-in-tarn-taran-near-indo-pak-border/story-CAu9IbODeUSDYklgMUoAaM.html
28-05-2020||India||‘No fare to be charged from stranded migrants, railways to give food during journey’: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Thursday ordered the Centre to ensure free travel to stranded migrants to their home states by trains and buses even as the government contended that it is taking “unprecedented steps” to meet the challenging crisis during the Covid-19 lockdown. A three-judge bench asked the solicitor general Tushar Mehta about the confusion over payment of travel fare of stranded migrant workers and said that they should not made to pay for their journey back home. “What is the normal time? If a migrant is identified, there must be some certainty that he will be shifted out within one week or ten days at most? What is that time? There had been instances where one state sends migrants but at the border another State says we are not accepting the migrants. We need a policy on this,” the bench told Mehta.The government has repeatedly told that the fare is not being charged from the labourers, explaining that the railway ministry is carrying 85% of the ticket fare and the state governments 15%. The bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said that the originating state shall provide meals and water at the station and during the journey, the railways would provide the same to the migrant workers. It said that food and water be also provided to them for travel in buses. The states should set up help desks to disseminate information about arrangements made for migrant workers, said the order. The Centre told the top court that it has sent 97 lakh migrant workers - 50 lakh by Shramik Specials and 47 lakh via road - home between May 1 and 27, adding 80 percent of those are from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.The bench, also comprising Justices S K Kaul and M R Shah, directed that states shall oversee the registration of migrant workers and ensure that they are made to board the train or bus at the earliest.The top court noted in its order that even after registration for travel, the migrants have to wait for a long time for their turns to come. The bench noted submissions of Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who said instructions have been given to state governments to facilitate a bus or vehicle if any migrant workers are seen walking on foot.Migrant workers found walking on the roads, said the court, should immediately be taken to shelters and provided food and other necessary facilities. The bench, which had on May 26 taken suo motu (on its own) cognizance of the miseries of migrant workers, said it believed that the Centre and state governments were required to be given some time to bring on record the steps taken by them on the issue. It said that details regarding number of migrant workers, plan for transportation, mechanism for registration and other relevant information should be brought on record. It also said that the Railways has to provide trains as and when state government put in such request. The bench has posted the matter for further hearing on June 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-fare-to-be-charged-from-stranded-migrants-railways-to-give-food-during-journey-supreme-court/story-ZuqPlO1RDE5HA1oohNM2tO.html
28-05-2020||India||‘Radio industry on ventilator’: Private FM radio channels prod Centre to act||The radio industry has reached out to the government seeking a support package to help it tide over the coronavirus crisis.The Association of Radio Operators for India (AROI), an industry body of private FM channels, has written a letter to Union minister of information and broadcasting Prakash Javadekar. In the letter, the AROI has sought a one-year waiver on all license fees and charges by the government and Prasar Bharti. It also wants restoration of government advertising on radio, clearance of government dues on advertising from DAVP, NFDC & BSNL and deferment of advance regulatory payments for the current fiscal year.The Information and Broadcasting Ministry responded to the request with a three-month extension of license fee payments without interest.The AROI, however, said that the support is much less than what was requested. It also said that with the limited support from the government, the sector has been forced to undertake drastic cost reduction measures “as companies are unable to generate enough cash flows to meet the salary cost and fixed operations cost requirements”.Many players have unwillingly reduced salaries and rationalised manpower resulting in job losses, the AROI said.The industry body also said that the current turbulent scenario is bound to have an adverse impact on the music industry as well that employs more than 1 Lakh people. “Radio is one of their primary sources of income. The medium is also a major reach and marketing platform for the music industry,” said AROI.The revenue for radio was down by over 80 per cent in April and are estimated to be down by 90 per cent this month. With no revenues from the commercial segments and no government sector advertising, the radio industry witnessed an estimated loss of over Rs 200 crore in the first two months of the current fiscal year. This is estimated to reach over Rs 600 crore by September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/radio-industry-approaches-govt-seeks-package-to-tide-over-covid-19-crisis/story-NjE6LRBvRgLZz2iGu17hIL.html
28-05-2020||India||Pulwama repeat foiled: IED-laden car had a fake number plate of a BSF officer’s motorbike||The IED-laden car intercepted in Pulwama carried a fake number plate allotted to a motorbike registered in the name of a BSF officer, Sahil Kumar, at regional transport office in Kathua district of Jammu and Kashmir to mislead the forces, said officers.DGP Dilbagh Singh, who shared the pictures of the Santro car carrying at least 30 kgs of explosives and its fake number plate with HT, said, “It was a false number plate used on the car to mislead the security forces.”The DGP said the details of the real owner of the car shall be shared later.Kathua district police chief, SSP Shailendra Kumar Mishra said, “The number plate used on the Santro car was of a motorbike belonging to Sahil Kumar, an ASI of the BSF posted in Budgam.”“The motorbike was registered in his name here in Kathua,” he added.Mishra informed that the BSF officer had nothing to do with the matter and it was a ploy of the terrorists to mislead the security forces.The car with the fake registration number accelerated after the driver was signalled to stop. When the police opened fire, the driver first sped off, then abandoned the car and escaped.The car was found later, a few kilometres away.The security forces were acting on a tip-off about a vehicle laden with explosives on the move in the valley with the aim to target a security camp or vehicle.Watch:Car with 60 kg explosives intercepted in Pulwama, major attack avertedOn Febraury 14, 2019, in a similar modus operandi, a Jaish terrorist Aadil Dar had rammed his explosive laden vehicle into a CRPF convoy of 78 buses in Pulwama killing 40 CRPF men.The commandant of CRPF’s 76 Battalion, NK Pandey and his men still remember the black day when they lost five of their colleagues, who were among the 40 CRPF men from various units travelling to Kashmir.The convoy of 78 buses had left CRPF transit camp here in Jammu on the fateful day around 4 am and the bus that bore the brunt of suicide bombing belonged to the 76 Battalion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pulwama-repeat-foiled-ied-laden-car-had-a-fake-number-plate-of-a-bsf-officer-s-motorbike/story-5YfX7kN3EO66X5xHVpnNvJ.html
28-05-2020||India||Air India employee unions seek Rs 50,000 crore financial package for national carrier||A joint forum of Air India employees and staff unions has sought a Rs 50,000 crore financial succour from the government for the national carrier, stating that the airline is a necessity for the country. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Joint Forum said that Air India is a “necessity” for the country, especially in times of crises, and a financial package will not only help the flag carrier but also the entire aviation sector and the economy. The prime minister earlier this month announced a Rs 20 lakh crore package, which combined the government’s earlier announcements on supporting key sectors as also measures rolled out by the Reserve Bank of India, to help revive the economy amid the coronavirus pandemic crisis. Leading rating agencies have forecast the Indian economy to contract by 5 per cent in the current fiscal due to the impact of the crisis. “We thank you for the financial package of Rs 20 lakh crores to boost industry and the economy. As you will agree that civil aviation is of paramount importance in today’s context and therefore it is extremely necessary to boost the aviation industry and restore normal operations at the earliest, which is crucial for the economy to stabilise. “In view of this, we request you to kindly grant Air India a financial package of Rs 50,000 crore which will go a long way in ensuring that Air India emerges as the strongest and best airline of India,” the Joint Forum said in the letter. Stating that Air India has once again played a crucial role for the nation by bringing back stranded Indians from all parts of the world including several offline stations at a time when airlines all over the world had ceased operations due to the pandemic, the Forum said that the carrier  “even at peak of the COVID 19 pandemic operated flights to and from Wuhan which is the origin and centre point of the coronavirus.” Besides, Air India staff went out of the way at considerable “personal risk” to ensure smooth operations of several cargo and charter flights all through this period thereby facilitating the smooth movement of medicines and medical equipment between India and many other countries including China, it said. Air India has always performed national duties irrespective of the serious risks involved, it said adding it has been established beyond doubt that Air India is a necessity for the country especially in times of crises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-employee-unions-seek-rs-50-000-crore-financial-package-for-national-carrier/story-Hxg5MTfe6QqSUiRqgDpfUM.html
28-05-2020||India||Heavy rain, gusty winds claim two lives, disrupt restoration work in cyclone-hit Bengal||An overnight downpour, coupled with gusty winds, claimed at least two lives and dealt a fresh blow to the city and other south Bengal districts on Thursday, a week after cyclone Amphan battered the state, leaving behind a trail of destruction.In North 24 Parganas, a 40-year-old man was killed and five others were injured after a brick wall collapsed on them, police said.One person died in a lightning strike at Durgapur in West Burdwan district, a disaster management department official said.Sources in the Kolkata Traffic Police said the squall, which started on Wednesday evening, left parts of Central Avenue, MG Road, Bidhan Sarani and Ultadanga heavily waterlogged for at least a few hours, inconveniencing workers undertaking relief work in the wake of the May 20 cyclone.In Howrah, several areas including Panchanantala Road, Shibpur, and Mandirtala remained inundated, with just a few shops lifting shutters during the day.Official sources said the heavy rain, preceded by the Nor’wester, has also disrupted life in Nadia, Hooghly, North and South 24 Parganas, East and West Midnapore districts, which are already under severe strain for the past eight days due to the cyclone.Protests that had been raging on in the Amphan-hit city seeking resumption of power and water supply, were missing on Thursday, with private power utility CESC claiming that electricity has largely been restored in the metropolis.In Roy Bahadur Road area of Behala, however, residents claimed they were still reeling under water crisis, and uprooted trees blocking major roads were yet to be cleared.“We are working on war footing to clear the road and resume water supply, now that power has been restored in the locality,” a KMC official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-gusty-winds-claim-two-lives-disrupt-restoration-work-in-cyclone-hit-bengal/story-xZ4paXMBDC94hkxsyJIE4H.html
28-05-2020||India||IndiGo passenger who travelled on flight from Bengaluru tests Covid-19 positive||An asymptomatic passenger who travelled on an IndiGo flight from Bangalore to Madurai on Wednesday tested Covid-19 positive during the mandatory testing at the quarantine facility in Madurai. This is the fourth such case after domestic flight operations resumed on May 25. The airline said that the infected passenger observed all precautionary measures including face mask, face shield and gloves, like other passengers on-board the aircraft.“All our aircraft are regularly sanitised as a standard operating procedure and the aircraft that operated this flight too was immediately disinfected as per protocol. The operating crew has been home quarantined for 14 days and we are in the process of notifying other passengers as per government guidelines, to ensure safety of our passengers and staff,” an IndiGo spokesperson said. ALSO WATCH | Covid-19 Update: China prepares for war; IndiGo crew grounded; Karnataka templesTwo passengers who travelled on May 25 (the first day of flight resumption after two months) were found to be infected with the virus. These passengers had travelled from Ahmedabad to Guwahati on the SpiceJet flight SG 8152. “Covid-19 tests were conducted at Guwahati after landing and the passengers were quarantined. The test reports came on May 27. The operating crew has been quarantined and SpiceJet is coordinating with government agencies in notifying other passengers who had travelled with them,” the airline had said.Another passenger on a Delhi- Ludhiana Air India flight on May 26 too had tested positive for Covid-19. As a result of this, the national carrier had to quarantine 36 passengers and four crew members in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indigo-passenger-who-travelled-on-flight-from-bengaluru-tests-covid-19-positive/story-tW111YFrk2O9igWvD0JBiN.html
28-05-2020||India||Liquor baron hires 180-seater plane to ferry three family members, help: Report||A Bhopal-based high net worth individual hired a 180-seater A320 plane of a private carrier to ferry four family members to New Delhi, in a bid to avoid crowd at the airport and in flight amid the Covid-19 outbreak, officials said on Thursday.The person, who is a liquor baron, chartered the aircraft to send to Delhi his daughter, her two children and their maid, who were stuck in Bhopal since the last two months due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, sources said.The plane arrived here from Delhi on Monday with crew only and flew back with just four passengers for whom it was specially hired, they said.“The A320 180-seater plane arrived here on May 25 to carry four members of a family, probably due to the coronavirus scare. It was chartered by someone and there was no medical emergency, an airline official said, refusing to divulge any further details.Bhopals Rajabhoj Airport Director Anil Vikram could not be contacted for comments.According to aviation experts, the cost of hiring an Airbus-320 is about Rs 20 lakh.Domestic commercial flight services resumed from Monday, after a nearly two-month break due to the coronavirus-enforced lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/liquor-baron-hires-180-seater-plane-to-ferry-three-family-members-help-report/story-DkjohE8rh0g4axBS2SuaBK.html
28-05-2020||India||Delhi issues advisory to tackle locust threat as capital braces for attack||The Delhi government on Thursday issued an advisory on preventive measures to control a probable locust attack in the national capital.It called for organising awareness programmes for the public/farmers to prevent/control the probable attack of swarms of locusts in the national capital territory (NCT) of Delhi.It said that since the swarms usually fly during the day and rest at night, they should not be allowed to rest.“Concerned authorities may carry out spraying of insecticide/pesticide as per need during the night,” the advisory by the Development Commissioner of Delhi said.Delhi labour minister Gopal Rai also convened a meeting at his residence to discuss preparations to meet the locust threat, ANI reported.The locust swarms which first attacked Rajasthan have now spread to four other states - Punjab, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh.Much of the current swarms of locusts are not yet adults. In favourable wind conditions they can travel long distances in a single day which makes tracking them difficult.The Centre has also pitched in to help states battle the locust attack that can lay to waste agriculture fields. On Wednesday, the Union agriculture ministry said that locust control operations have been stepped to neutralize the threat in the affected states.In Maharashtra, the state agriculture department has issued a ‘locust warning alert’ for all 11 districts in Vidarbha and four districts in north Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-issues-advisory-to-tackle-locust-threat-as-capital-braces-for-attack/story-DALd16JzhiVpref8gSAFjO.html
28-05-2020||India||Monsoon likely to make onset over Kerala around June 1: IMD||The southwest monsoon is expected to reach the Kerala coast around its normal date of June 1 and earlier than forecast by the India Meteorological Department (IMD).This is because conditions are becoming favourable for monsoon winds to advance as a low pressure area is expected to develop over the Arabian Sea between May 31 and June 4.An area of low pressure formed over west-central and adjoining southwest Arabian Sea on Thursday. It is likely to intensify into a depression on Thursday and move northwestwards towards the south Oman and east Yemen coasts during the next three days.It is also likely to intensify into a cyclone but may not impact India’s west coast, IMD scientists said.Another low pressure area is likely to form over southeast and adjoining east-central Arabian Sea, close to the Indian coast between May 31 and 4 June.“Scattered low and medium clouds with embedded intense to very intense convection lay over southeast and west central Arabian Sea,” IMD said in its cyclone bulletin for Thursday.IMD director general M Mohapatra said: “The second low pressure area is likely to bring rain to the west coast and make conditions favourable for advancement of monsoon earlier than expected. We can expect onset of the monsoon over Kerala around June 1 or 2.”He added, “This low pressure area is close to the Indian coast and is likely to bring rain. The present low pressure area is far from our coast and isn’t likely to have a huge impact on the west coast. It’s already very close to the Yemen and Oman coasts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-likely-to-make-onset-over-kerala-around-june-1-imd/story-7Z7Lq4VScXG8HQfFohhryO.html
28-05-2020||India||‘Taking unprecedented steps’: Centre to Supreme Court on migrant workers||The Centre on Thursday told the Supreme Court that it has sent 97 lakh migrant workers home since May 1, further underlining that it has taken “unprecedented steps” to meet this “unprecedented crisis”. “This is an unprecedented crisis and we are taking unprecedented measures,” Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told the court during a hearing on migrant labourers’ situation amid Covid-19 lockdown. The top court remarked that stranded migrant workers who want to travel back to their home states should not be stopped.“When a migrant worker wishes to go to a state, no state can say that we will not take you,” a bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan remarked while hearing a suo motu case initiated by it on migrant labourers.The court also remarked that the government should work out a timeframe within which migrant workers desirous of returning to their home states can be transported. During the interim period, food and other facilities should be provided, Justice Ashok Bhushan said. Giving a break-up of the numbers, the government told the apex court that 50 lakh migrants have been moved to their homes by Shramik Specials between May 1 and 27. Another 41 lakh workers were sent via road, the government added. “Ninety seven lakh migrants have been transported since May 1,” said Mehta.The Solicitor General said details of all stranded migrants can be obtained only when the states provide that information, adding that over 80 percent of those workers who have been sent home are from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. “Let the states reply and then you will have an overall view. Don’t let stray incidents impact the hearing,” he said.Earlier today, speaking at Congress’ ‘SpeakUp’ campaign, party president Sonia Gandhi underscored how the country is witnessing a “dard ka manzar (immense pain)” as migrant workers are trudging the highways, many among them bare foot, to get home amid the Covid-19 lockdown. She accused the Central government of being oblivious to the plight of these poor people. On Tuesday, the top court had issued notices to the Centre and the state governments, saying there have been “inadequacies and certain lapses” on their part in dealing with the migrant workers’ situation.Media reports, the court order said, had been “continuously showing the unfortunate and miserable conditions of migrant labourers” walking on-foot and cycles from long distances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/91-lakh-migrants-moved-till-date-centre-tells-supreme-court/story-BUpylAQf3oZy1HvWxK2wYO.html
28-05-2020||India||Amid lockdown, Assam youth starts LED bulb-making unit at home||Dipen Taid (27) is an assistant teacher in a government-run school in Assam. But every afternoon he is revelling in his newfound role as a budding entrepreneur.Taid, who hails from Simaluguri village in Dhemaji district, located on the north bank of the Brahmaputra river, has started a light-emitting diode (LED) bulb-making unit at his home amid the ongoing lockdown restrictions imposed to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Taid has been working at a school in lower Assam’s Barpeta district, located over 500 kilometres away from his native Dhemaji, for the past three years. He returned to his village in March owing to the prevailing lockdown restrictions and is conducting online classes for his students since then.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverage“I get busy with my LED bulb-making unit after my online classes get over. I’ve got a lot of spare time because of the lockdown. I started the unit two weeks ago and have trained four youth from my village to assemble and manufacture LED bulbs,” he said.Taid’s venture echoes the entrepreneurial bent of mind of a commerce graduate, whose late father was a humble farmer, as he has had no technical know-how of LED making bulbs. Online videos are all that he watched before starting the enterprise with an initial investment of Rs 25,000 to buy a bulb-making machine and the parts needed to assemble 100 LED bulbs. He made the purchases from a Madhya Pradesh-based firm.The initial response to his venture has been a roaring success, as the first lot of 100 bulbs sold like hot cakes in a jiffy. Now, he has placed a fresh order for the supply parts for 25,000 bulbs from the same company.Indra Kumar Taid, Taid’s neighbour, waxed eloquent about the novel initiative. “I visited his unit, and immediately purchased three bulbs for Rs 160 each. I’ve been using them for over a week, and can vouch that they’re better than many of the reputed LED bulb brands available in Dhemaji,” said Taid’s customer.Ratul Missong, another customer of Taid, said the bulb he purchased five days ago is brighter than any other he has used in the past.The popularity of his product can be gauged from the social media response. On May 24, he put out a post on social media, which received over 2,700 likes and shared around 1,000 times. He has been flooded with calls from people, who either want to buy the bulbs manufactured by him or start similar units.“I’ve got calls from all across from Assam, except those districts located in the Barak Valley and Karbi Anglong. I cannot scale up my production because of financial constraints. I’ve delayed accepting fresh orders till July,” he said.Taid plans start a new brand called KB Lights – the first initials of his late father Kenokamal and mother Bajumati. He has already chalked out his plans for the future. If KB Lights lights up his financial prospects, he plans to quit his job as a teacher and concentrate on expanding the LED bulb-making unit.“I can only support my immediate family with my earnings, if I work as a teacher. However, I can become a job creator, if I manage to flourish in my business venture,” said Taid.“Assam’s youth don’t need to migrate to other states in search of their livelihoods. They can become self-reliant in their home state, if they can start their own ventures with small investments,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-lockdown-assam-youth-starts-led-bulb-making-unit-at-home/story-LDYXtwQp5uZdJZkEu0tgiP.html
28-05-2020||India||BMS welcomes Centre’s objection to change of labour policies||The Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), which spearheaded demands to roll back changes in labour laws by several states, has welcomed the Centre’s objection to states having taken the ordinance route for dispensing with the laws.Labour laws were changed by several states, including Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, as part of efforts to spur economic activity amid the Covid-19 crisis.Several states also opted to suspend labour laws to woo investors, particularly those wanting to shift base from China to India. The Kerala government brought an ordinance to nullify a high court order prohibiting the compulsory deduction of a month’s salary of its employees. After the International Labour Organization (ILO) expressed concern at attempts to roll back long-standing labour laws and said India, as a signatory, has to abide by its commitments, Union labour minister Santosh Gangwar clarified the laws wouldn’t be dispensed with.BMS president CK Saji Narayana said in a statement that Gangwar’s comment – that the complete suspension of laws is not reform based on settled national and international positions – “exposes the blunder of ordinance route adopted by the four states”.He also noted that Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, while announcing the Rs 20-lakh crore package, had said the government will not take the ordinance route for changing labour laws.“The trend of increasing working hours from eight hours to 12 was started by the Rajasthan government and adopted by nearly 15 states. Now the reverse trend of ‘correcting the mistake’ has started with first the Uttar Pradesh government reverting back to eight hours, followed by the Rajasthan government. BMS demands other state governments also to follow it,” Narayana said.To protest against the changes to these laws, BMS, an affiliate of the Rashtriya Swyamsevak Sangh (RSS), led nationwide demonstrations on May 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bms-welcomes-centre-s-objection-to-change-of-labour-policies/story-5SANbfppa7nFMn3IkWf6hO.html
28-05-2020||India||Odisha priest beheads man following dreams that it would end Covid-19||A 70-year-old priest has been arrested in Odisha for allegedly beheading a man, believing that the killing will end the coronavirus pandemic.The 55-year-old was beheaded in the premises of the temple on Wednesday night, the police said.Police officials said that Sansari Ojha is a priest at Goddess Brahmani temple in Bandhahuda area of Narasinhapur block in Cuttack. Ojha claimed he was ordered to carry out the beheading the the goddess in order to bring an end to the pandemic, the police said.On Wednesday night, when the victim Saroj Kumar Pradhan visited the temple and was bowing before the goddess, Ojha came up from behind and rained blows on Pradhan’s neck with a scythe. Sub-Divisional Police Officer (SDPO) of Athagarh, Alok Ranjan Ray, said that the accused priest later surrendered to the police and confessed to committing the murder.“During interrogation he admitted to the murder claiming it was ordered by the goddess,” said the SDPO. The police, however, said that the priest had a long-standing dispute with the deceased over a mango orchard on the outskirts of the village.The murder weapon has been seized by the police.Odisha, meanwhile, reported 67 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday. The state’s tally now stands at 1,660, according to the state health department.Of the new patients, 65 had recently returned to the state from various parts of the country and were in different quarantine centres across districts, while two others were detected with the infection as a result of the contact-tracing exercise, the health department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-priest-beheads-man-following-dreams-that-it-would-end-covid-19/story-JmIYE7hIvTKN1jgWoZL7bP.html
28-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan and Covid-19: Survivors recount tales of horror and grit||Cyclone Amphan which affected more than 10 million and killed 86 people was the strongest cyclone to hit West Bengal in a decade. Tanmay Chatterjee and Joydeep Thakur spoke to the people who faced the full fury of the cyclone. ‘As if the lockdown was not enough to cripple us...’, says honey seller Gopal MondolThe nationwide lockdown had already crippled Gopal Mondol, 55, even before Cyclone Amphan hit. Every year, in April and May, he would enter the tiger-infested mangrove forest of the Sunderbans to collect honey. But this time, the forest authorities did not issue any permit. “As if the lockdown was not enough to cripple us, now we have been hit by the cyclone. We have lost almost everything. Our house is gone,” Mondol said.Mondol said his father, two brothers and cousins were killed by tigers. Yet he continues to enter the forest to collect honey and beeswax from the hives of wild bees, as it is a lucrative business. “My family and I had to take shelter in a local school building along with dozens of other villagers. The cyclone has devastated our village. Saline water has gushed into the villages. Ponds and croplands have all been destroyed. We don’t know what to do,” Mondol said.Mondol’s son works in Bengaluru as labourer. His grandson and daughter-in-law live with Mondol. The nine-year-old studies in a village school.“During the lockdown, we were getting some help from the government in the form of rice, dal and potatoes. But that was not enough. We hardly have any money left. My son is not able to send any money either as he has no work there,” Mondol lamented.‘We had to ensure safety and social distancing’: Bureaucrat recounts experienceSudipta Mandal found himself literally at the eye of the storm when Cyclone Amphan struck last week. The 46-year-old block development officer for South 24 Parganas in Kolkata was in charge of Sagar Island, one of the worst-hit by the cyclone that made landfall on the coastlines of Bangladesh and West Bengal on May 20. After the Indian Meteorological Department issued the warning earlier this month, Mandal supervised the rescue and relief operations with nearly 500 officials and volunteers. Together, they evacuated around 45,000 villagers from various islands and shifted them to shelters.This is not his first rehabilitation effort. He was also involved in the operations after Cyclone Fani hit Odisha in May 2019, and a few months later, Cyclone Bulbul that hit the Bengal coast. “Cyclone Amphan was by far the most destructive. Now that the cyclone has passed, relief and reconstruction work has started,” he said.The challenge was greater due to the coronavirus pandemic. “We not only had to shift villagers to safe locations but also ensure that there was social distancing. Around 500 migrant workers who had just returned from other states had to be kept in six quarantine centres,” Mandal said, adding, “My family members including my parents called me frequently to ask about my safety. But there was no mobile connectivity.”‘Doubt if our roof is intact, wish I could talk to my kin’Ever since she watched television footage of Cyclone Amphan battering large parts of the South 24 Parganas district, Arati Sardar, 45, has not stopped praying for her family at Chunakhali, a remote gram panchayat area in the Sunderbans.“I tried calling my husband and daughter. Their phones have not rung even once in five days. One of our relatives from another part of the district told me that there is no electricity and mobile phone towers have collapsed. I cannot take this anxiety anymore,” Sardar said.“A lot of people have died, they said on television,” she added.The 45- year-old homemaker started taking a train to Kolkata to work as a domestic help when her husband, a mason, lost his job because of his excessive drinking, three years ago.Ever since the nationwide lockdown began on March 25, Sardar has been stranded at her employer’s home in Gariahat, south Kolkata. Her son, also a migrant worker, is stuck in Bengaluru where he recently underwent a kidney operation.“The roof of our home is covered by an asbestos sheet. I doubt it is intact. We have some date palm, mango, banana and other trees on a small piece of land. The orchard must be ravaged. I wish I could talk to my husband once,” Sardar said.‘Such calamites can come again... need to be ready’: Septuagenarian hails renewable sources of energySeptuagenarian SP Gon Choudhury and his wife Swapna, 69, live in their own house in east Kolkata with two domestic helps. Their son, an engineer, lives in London while their daughter, a doctor, lives in Australia.Choudhury, a former government employee is a renewable energy expert and received the Green Oscar award in 2003. And thus, at a time when Madurdaha, a residential neighbourhood in east Kolkata plunged into darkness as Cylcone Amphan tore into Bengal and Bangladesh’s coastlines and high tension electric wires snapped at grid supply sites, Choudhury’s house enjoyed uninterrupted power supply.Choudhury installed a rooftop solar panel in 2018, which produces 1 kilowatt of power when the sun shines — enough to operate a small pump to fill the overhead tank in emergency, apart from running lights, fans and even charge mobile phones. The Choudhurys use a combination of solar power and grid.On the day the cyclone made landfall, Choudhury said that his children kept calling him and his wife to check on them. “My son and daughter were concerned as it was a huge cyclone and mobile networks were down.”The cyclone devastated large parts of the Sunderbans, and the city of Kolkata, and left millions homeless and 86 dead.“Kolkata being a cyclone prone city, such calamities would come again. Every house should explore this option of becoming self-reliant,” Choudhury, who has served as a United Nations expert, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-and-covid-19-survivors-recount-tales-of-horror-and-grit/story-xVXwXJeibd0ohYRd929D6O.html
28-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Maharashtra starts review and planning for easing Covid-related restrictions and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Maha govt starts review and planning for easing Covid-19-related restrictions from June 1With just four days for lockdown 4.0 to end on May 31, the Maharashtra government has started a review and planning for easing Covid-19-related restrictions from June 1. Maharashtra imposed a lockdown from the midnight of March 23, a day before the nationwide lockdown began. Read moreIn rural Lucknow, boys join sisters in making sanitary padsIn much of India, the word ‘menstruation’ is taboo and a large part of the population, particularly women, shies away from talking about menstrual products out of embarrassment. But in rural Malihabad (Lucknow) two girls Aneesha and Deeksha are enlisting their brothers’ help to sew sanitary pads. Read moreAre Covid-19 testing facilities available in all districts, HC asks StateThe Bombay high court has directed the Maharashtra government to disclose whether testing facilities for detecting Covid-19 infections are available in every district of the state. Read more50% of people infected with Covid may experience altered sense of taste: StudyNearly 50 per cent of people who contract Covid-19 may experience altered or lost sense of taste, according to a review of studies.The review, published in the journal Gastroenterology, could provide diagnostic hint for clinicians who suspect their patients might have the deadly disease. Read moreFinding sponsors a problem for T20 World CupThere are many reasons why hosting the Twenty20 World Cup amid the pandemic this year could be a fraught affair. The biggest concern is, of course the players—even if one member gets infected, a team will be knocked out as all players will have to go into quarantine. Read moreHema Malini issues clarification for ‘classist’ Kent RO ad that showed house helps as disease carriersActor and politician Hema Malini has issued a clarification after an advertisement featuring her was slammed for being classist. The ad, for a dough kneading machine, has been taken down by Kent RO. Read moreDonald Trump vs Twitter: Jack Dorsey says they will continue to point out incorrect informationAfter Twitter decided to prompt users, for the first time ever, to fact check US President Donald Trump’s tweets warning that his claims about “mail-in ballots were false” and “has been debunked by factcheckers”, White House has said that Trump will sign an executive order on social media companies on Thursday. Read moreMenstrual Hygiene Day 2020: To attain menstrual health, we require community involvementMenstruation is a normal biological process, which is the key in maintaining the reproductive well being of a woman. Myths and taboos in the society have resulted in a high level of secrecy about the basic menstruation facts -- leading to shame and exclusion for women and girls. Read morePredator waits to strike its prey in this picture. Can you spot it?Pictures of wildlife in their natural habitat usually leave people impressed and often surprised. Sometimes, such pictures also end up posing a challenge when they feature animals hiding in plain sight. Read moreWatch| Covid-19: How India’s lockdown is different, what GDP contraction means||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-maharashtra-starts-review-and-planning-for-easing-covid-related-restrictions-and-all-the-latest-news/story-XgqBailgNOITITqfqwGCFL.html
28-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Freeze on new posts, transfers as Chhattisgarh on austerity drive||With lockdown having affected the state revenue collection, the Chhattisgarh government on Wednesday decided to put a freeze on creating new posts, transfers, foreign tours, purchase of vehicles, and holding meetings in expensive hotels, among other measures.According to the state finance department’s order, effective from May 31, recruitment on any vacancies, except vacancies of direct recruitment, and appointment on compassionate grounds can be done only after prior permission of the same department.For posts that were earlier approved by the finance department, but recruitment was pending, the concerned department will have to take permission again before recruiting on these posts.Proposals to the finance department in the context should include the information about annual financial burden after recruitment and the need for recruitment on given posts.It has further directed all the departments to follow standard procedure for regular promotion, but transfers due to promotion should be avoided.“Payment of arrears as a result of promotion-upgradation will remain pending till the next orders of the finance department. To control the establishment expenses of departments, the government has banned creation of new posts in all the departments, public undertakings, and municipal bodies with immediate effect. Under special circumstances, new posts can be created after taking permission from the Finance Department,” the department notification said.The expenditure on foreign tours will remain completely banned and government officials are not allowed business class fare during air travel and in first class compartments of trains under government expenses. Unnecessary official tours without approval from competent authority will remain prohibited.Departments have been directed to organise minimum possible meetings and to curtail the expenses on events such as conferences, seminars, government programmes.In the fiscal year 2020-21, purchase of new vehicles is completely banned. Only the vehicles required for essential services can be purchased after taking permission.“Annual salary increment payable to state government employees from July 1, 2020 and January 1, 2020 has been postponed until further notice. However, this order will not be applicable on government employees retiring before January 1, 2021 and July 1, 2021,” the finance department directed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-freeze-on-new-posts-transfers-as-chhattisgarh-on-austerity-drive/story-LF1lfrPJwwO1e5XRxr72ML.html
28-05-2020||India||India’s trade with South Asia less than 4% of global trade; China’s up by 546%||India’s trade with countries in South Asia has remained less than 4% of its global trade since the late 1980s while China has increased its exports to the region by 546%, from $8 billion in 2005 to $52 billion in 2018, according to a new study.The study by Brookings India, released on Tuesday, noted that South Asia remains one of the least economically integrated regions in the world. Intra-regional trade remains well below its potential, at only 5% of the region’s global trade, because of “protectionist policies, high logistics cost, lack of political will and a broader trust deficit”.India’s regional trade growth from 1991 until 1999 was minimal, according to the study titled “India’s limited trade connectivity with South Asia”. In 2008, India’s trade with South Asian neighbours reached a decadal high of $13.45 billion. Following a dip in 2009 due to the global financial crisis, India’s trade with its neighbours doubled in the next five years, touching $24.69 billion in 2014.The slowdown in India’s exports to South Asia in 2015 and 2016 coincided with the 13% decline in India’s global trade, from $19 trillion in 2014 to $16.5 trillion in 2015. Intra-regional trade revived in 2017, reaching a peak at $24.75 billion, and picking up further in 2018 when it rose to $36 billion, according to the study.India’s largest export market in the region is Bangladesh, followed by Sri Lanka and Nepal, whereas the largest imports by value come from Myanmar, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh.All countries in the neighbourhood have a trade deficit with India, the highest in 2018 being Bangladesh ($7.6 billion), followed by Nepal ($6.8 billion).The study says that despite the growing trade volume, India’s trade with its neighbourhood has remained roughly between 1.7% and 3.8% of its global trade. This has happened despite trade agreements such as the SAARC Preferential Trading Arrangement (SAPTA), followed by the South Asian Free Trade Area (SAFTA) agreement, as well as the Indo-Myanmar Border Trade Agreement, the ASEAN–India Trade in Goods Agreement and the Indo-Sri Lanka Free Trade Agreement.In contrast, China has consistently increased its trade with South Asia, barring a slight dip after the global financial crisis of 2008. In 2014, China’s trade reached a high of $60.41 billion, whereas India traded approximately one-third that amount at $24.70 billion.Though China’s trade volume with South Asia is consistently larger, excluding Pakistan reduces the gap to almost half. This gap is attributed to the China–Pakistan Free Trade Agreement signed in 2006, which increased trade significantly between both countries.The study’s analysis of India and China’s shares in the global trade of the South Asian countries revealed only the landlocked countries (Afghanistan, Bhutan, and Nepal) had a higher trade share with India when compared to China. While exports to China from the region have been minimal, imports from China have been growing since 2012 in Myanmar, and since 2014 in the Maldives, Bangladesh, and Pakistan.In the case of Sri Lanka, there was heavy reliance on imports from India till 2013, owing to the Indo-Sri Lanka Free Trade Agreement. However, post-2013, both India and China export at par to Sri Lanka.“In the last two decades, China has established itself as a major trade partner of South Asia. Beyond Pakistan, China has made inroads into South Asia by becoming Bangladesh’s top trading partner in 2015, and bolstering trade and investment with Nepal, Afghanistan, Maldives and Sri Lanka. This mainly reflects the region’s strategic importance for China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), particularly the smaller South Asian countries,” the study said.The study recommended several steps to help improve India’s regional trade, including revisiting and redoubling the focus on free trade agreements, eliminating barriers and other protectionist policies, and enhancing cross-border infrastructure such as integrated check posts.Data from World Bank’s World Integrated Trade Solution (WITS) database and the International Monetary Fund’s (IMF) Direction of Trade Statistics (DOTS) database on trade by India and China with Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, the Maldives, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka was analysed for the study.The study focused on India’s import and export with South Asian states from 1988 to 2018 and China’s trade with South Asia, excluding India, from 1992 to 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-trade-with-south-asia-less-than-4-of-global-trade-china-s-trade-with-region-increases-by-546/story-NqV2EfMvnpjypgV6LFPiwO.html
28-05-2020||India||Rajya Sabha secretariat begins oath preparations||The Rajya Sabha secretariat has begun preparations for the swearing-in of 37 MPs elected unopposed to the upper house, a person aware of the development said on Thursday. Two sets of days in June have been identified for administering oath to the members from 10 states elected in March. Dates will be communicated to the MPs once the Rajya Sabha Chairman, M Venkaiah Naidu, finalises them.According to the functionary who spoke on condition of anonymity, Naidu has asked the secretariat to frame a plan for the staggered swearing-in of the newly elected MPs.“Two sets of dates for the first week of June and two for the second week have been identified. The dates will be finalised, depending on flights and the quarantine rules to be followed. The MPs have to be given sufficient time to get to New Delhi,” the functionary said.Two MPs, also speaking on condition of anonymity, said they had been asked to be prepared for June 4 and 5.“I was told the dates will be confirmed soon, but to remain ready for next Thursday or Friday,” said one MP.While 37 members were elected unopposed, elections to fill 18 of the total of 55 vacancies were scheduled for March 26. But the elections have been deferred indefinitely because of the Covid-19 pandemic.“The MPs will be called in batches after May 31, when lockdown 4.0 ends. They will be administered the oath of office in the chairman’s chambers, following all protocols for social distancing,” said the functionary quoted above.The oath ceremony will not be open to even families of the MPs, in keeping with the strict protocol of limiting the number of people present in the House.Among the 37 who were elected unopposed are Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, Union minister Ramdas Athawale, Shiv Sena’s Priyanka Chaturvedi, and Congress’s Rajeev Satav. From Tamil Nadu, DMK’s Tiruchi Siva, deputy speaker M Thamidurai from the AIADMK and TMC chief GK Vasan were among six elected unopposed.In April, the Rajya Sabha secretariat had announced that the newly elected members had been advised to wait for subscribing to the oath or affirmation till the end of the Covid-19 lockdown.It said while members elected to the house are entitled to make and subscribe the prescribed oath or affirmation and take their seat in the House only upon commencement of their term of office under relevant provisions of the Representation of the People Act, the Constitution (Article 99) and rule 5 of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Rajya Sabha do not prescribe any time limit for a newly elected member to subscribe oath or affirmation.New members are not entitled to sit, participate and vote in the House or in a committee until they have subscribed the oath or affirmation.The order also said newly elected members are entitled to all facilities, perks and privileges available to Members of Parliament from the date of commencement of their term of office, which is the date of notification of their election to the Rajya Sabha by the law ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-secretariat-begins-oath-preparations/story-dy3zEw4q2OqPvFpzce1VKL.html
28-05-2020||India||‘India has seen migrants’ pain but BJP has not’: Sonia Gandhi||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday spotlighted how the country is witnessing a “dard ka manzar (immense pain)” as migrant workers are trudging the highways, many among them bare foot, to get home amid the Covid-19 lockdown. This is the fourth phase of lockdown, which is set to end on May 31. “Unka darr, unki siski, unki peeda desh main sabne suni, par shayad sarkar ne nahi (Everyone saw their pain, heard their cries, but may be the government has still not seen it),” said Sonia Gandhi in a video message to migrants. The video is part of the party’s ‘SpeakUp’ campaign to help raise the voice of the poor, migrants, small businesses and the middle class people before the central government.The Congress president urged the Central government to provide every poor family Rs 7,500 for the next six months to tide over the difficulties. She also said they should be given Rs 10,000 immediately. A free and safe ride home, said Gandhi, must be ensured for the thousands of migrants, who are suddenly out of jobs because of nationwide lockdown.To make sure migrants returning home have gainful employment, Sonia Gandhi requested the government to hike the working mandays in NREGA to 200.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, while laying out the final tranche of the Rs 20 lakh crore economic package, had said the government will now allocate an additional Rs 40,000 crore to MGNREGA to provide employment boost. This amount is in addition to a little over Rs 61,000 crore budgeted for 2020-21.On Tuesday, a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court issued notices to the Centre and states, saying there have been “inadequacies and certain lapses” on their part in dealing with the migrant workers’ situation. The court ordered the Centre and the states to immediately provide transport, food and shelter free of cost to the stranded workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-seen-migrants-pain-but-bjp-has-not-sonia-gandhi/story-1KxHx27bgfRKFpYgSDuvhM.html
28-05-2020||India||Health ministry issues guidelines on reuse, disinfection of eye protection goggles||A single goggle can be worn at least six times as a component of a personal protective equipment (PPE) kit by a healthcare worker, according to the latest guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Health & Family Welfare (MoH&FW) on the rational use of the special glasses while attending to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients or related swab samples.“Goggles may be issued to each healthcare worker, who will decontaminate them after every use. Goggles to be disinfected by users and reused at least five times each, whereby one pair of goggles will suffice for six days. They may use them rationally till their transparency decreases, or they get damaged. The ratio of issue of goggles to coverall is recommended at 1:6,” the advisory said.Goggles are key to a PPE kit, whose components after their use are discarded as bio-medical waste as per the standard operating procedure (SOP). However, the goggles that conform to the prescribed quality specifications of the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) can be reused after proper disinfection, the ministry said.“The purpose of this document is to enable individuals to reuse goggles used by them and allowing an extended use without running the risk of contracting infection,” the advisory said.The ministry has been issuing advisories at regular intervals to guide healthcare workers on how to rationally use their protective gear after the country faced an acute shortage of PPE kits during the initial stages of the viral outbreak, leading to widespread panic and a public outcry.“We don’t face any shortage anymore but a rational use of the protective gear is still advisable. One must not waste the resources just because the requirement is being met. The ministry has been consulting experts and issuing appropriate guidelines on a regular basis, as it is an evolving situation,” said a senior government official, requesting anonymity.The Centre has provided 1.14 and 9 million N-95 masks and PPE kits, respectively, to the states and other central institutions to date.“We’ve identified over 100 domestic manufacturers and in about two months have developed a robust industry indigenously, which has a capacity of manufacturing close to 3 lakh masks and PPE kits each daily. It’s a remarkable feat. Besides, the country is not dependent on the import of these items anymore,” the official added. The Union Ministry of Textiles has identified eight laboratories to run a quality control test of the PPE kits manufactured indigenously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-health-ministry-issues-guidelines-on-reuse-disinfection-of-eye-protection-goggles/story-bD4nEo2rOUr5QQwlb7rCBI.html
28-05-2020||India||Are Covid-19 testing facilities available in all districts, HC asks State||The Bombay high court has directed the Maharashtra government to disclose whether testing facilities for detecting Covid-19 infections are available in every district of the state.A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice KK Tated passed the order on Tuesday in response to a public interest litigation filed by a fisherman named Khalil Ahmad Hasanmiya Wasta, who complained about the lack of testing facilities in Ratnagiri district.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe bench asked government pleader PP Kakade to furnish the information by Friday, when a hearing of the case is scheduled.Wasta, who hails from Rajiwada area in Ratnagiri district, approached the high court through advocate Rakesh Bhatkar, and sought a direction to authorities to establish a full-fledged Covid-19 testing facility, approved by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), on May 7.ICMR has approved a testing facility at BKL Walawalkar Rural Medical College at Ratnagiri. Wasta’s petition contended this facility is yet to become functional as it doesn’t have a certificate issued by the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories.The petition further states the population of Ratnagiri is 16.15 lakh, and of the six hospitals in the district, two are reserved for treating Covid-19 patients.It states that initially there were only seven Covid-19 cases in the district, and by the end of April, two of the patients died and the others recovered. There were no Covid-19 patients at the beginning of May.The petition added that in the first week of May, authorities allowed local migration and granted passes to 44,531 people for entering Ratnagiri. At about the same time, about 30,000 people entered the district without permission, and as a result, 29,259 persons were kept in home quarantine till May 19 and 4,634 swabs were to be sent for testing, the petition said.Of these swabs, 92 were found to be positive for the Coronavirus and the result of 426 tests is pending.The 58-year-old fisherman’s petition stated the swabs are required to be sent for testing at Miraj in Single district – 178 km from Ratnagiri and 237 km from Dappli, the end point of the district.It added that after the virus spread rapidly in different parts of Maharashtra, the testing facility at Miraj refused to accept swabs from Ratnagiri as it was overburdened.Thereafter, the district collector instructed medical teams in the district on May 15 not to collect swabs of all migrant workers for testing.Against this backdrop, Wasta asked the court to direct state authorities to make the testing facility at Ratnagiri functional at the earliest, as any delay in testing would be dangerous to human life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/are-covid-19-testing-facilities-available-in-all-districts-hc-asks-state/story-P9gnSoQV89Y2YPNKfnQUmL.html
28-05-2020||India||Pulwama’s 60 kg car bomb seized by cops could be Lashkar-Jaish joint op||A car packed with 60 kg explosives was intercepted in a late night operation by a joint team of security forces in South Kashmir’s Pulwama district, averting what could have been a repeat of the 2019 suicide bombing of a CRPF bus that killed 40 soldiers more than a year ago.The explosives were later detonated by the Jammu and Kashmir police on an isolated stretch since it was considered too risky to defuse the car bomb. In a video released by Jammu and Kashmir Police, the car is seen turning into a huge ball of fire before enveloping the area in thick smoke.“This is such great work. Imagine if this had led to loss of lives. Just grateful this is not mixed in with human ash,” said Kashmir police officer Rayees Mohammad Bhat, who also tweeted a 9-second video of what he described as the “ashfall” from the explosion.Jammu and Kashmir police officers who examined the car bomb before it was detonated suspect Waleed Bhai, a notorious bomb maker of the Jaish-e-Mohammed terror group, had put together the car bomb. Huge tragedy averted in Kashmir! An intended IED attack in Pulwama in South Kashmir foiled owing to alertness of security forces.See the controlled explosion of IED in the car it was being carried in. Imagine the havoc that would've been caused if terrorists had been successful pic.twitter.com/XCoHpWAtU9But the car bomb, a senior police officer told Hindustan Times, also exemplifies that the line between terror groups was only notional since they were working closely and were increasingly moved from one group of another.“This is purely a Jaish and Lashkar joint operation. But the (terror) factory is located in Pakistan, whether it produces terrorists of Hizbul, Jaish or the TRF (The Resistance Front,” Jammu and Kashmir Police chief Dilbag Singh told Hindustan Times.The initial intelligence input that led to an overnight operation in Pulwama was that a Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist was driving the car. The input didn’t indicate which route he would take. “So joint teams of the J&K police, CRPF and Army mapped all the possible routes and set up checkpoints,” a Jammu and Kashmir police officer said.When the car suspected to be carrying the bomb was spotted at Ayekhand, the security forces - who had positioned themselves away from the road - started firing at the car. The terrorist drove for a bit before stopping the car and escaping in the jungle.The explosives were being carried in a drum on the rear seat of the Santro car which had a fake registration plate. “Possibly more explosives could be fitted elsewhere in the vehicle,” a police officer said.Security forces waited till dawn and evacuated people living in the neighbourhood. “The vehicle was exploded in situ by the Bomb Disposal Squads as moving the vehicle would have involved serious threat,” the police said. Initial investigations said the vehicle’s registration number was traced to a scooter issued in Kathua district of Jammu province.A top Kashmir police officer told Hindustan Times that they had been working on this case for the last two months. “This would have been a repeat of the (2019) Pulwama bombing,” he said, referring to the suicide bombing of a CRPF convoy that killed 40 troopers and led India to carry out air strikes at a terror facility in Pakistan’s Balakot. Islamabad retaliated by attempting to carry out strikes at Indian installations in Kashmir. India shot down an F-16 plane that was being used to fire at Indian locations.A senior counter-terror official in Delhi saw a link to the planned car bombing and Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s repeated statements about a “false flag operation in Kashmir”.A senior counter-terror official in Delhi saw a link to the planned car bombing and Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s repeated statements accusing India of prepping for a “false flag operation in Kashmir”.The reference to a ‘false flag operation’ is part of Imran Khan and his government’s narrative that Pakistan does not sponsor terror groups in Kashmir and India falsely accuses Islamabad of involvement so that it can launch attacks.“The sequence of events clearly demonstrate that PM Imran Khan had been preparing the ground to deny involvement in terror attacks orchestrated from its territory and support of the deep state,” a counter terror official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pulwama-s-60-kg-car-bomb-seized-by-cops-could-be-lashkar-jaish-joint-op/story-H27kv45oXh28DWmFPuJMSI.html
28-05-2020||India||Maha govt starts review and planning for easing Covid-19-related restrictions from June 1||With just four days for lockdown 4.0 to end on May 31, the Maharashtra government has started a review and planning for easing Covid-19-related restrictions from June 1. Maharashtra imposed a lockdown from the midnight of March 23, a day before the nationwide lockdown began. On June 1, the state will have been in lockdown for 69 days.State government officials have said restrictions will be relaxed in a phased manner. “Lifting of curbs will be announced in advance. There will be more relaxations but in a calibrated manner and in phases,” an official said. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has hinted restrictions will be eased on a trial basis to gauge the people’s response. In a meeting with district collectors, divisional commissioners and municipal commissioners on Wednesday, he said the number of Covid-19 cases had surged in districts with fewer cases after restrictions were eased. Experts said Maharashtra has to be extremely cautious about lifting restrictions. Anant Bhan, a researcher on global health, bioethics and health policy, said: “The exit strategy has to be carefully applied and in a calibrated manner. The decisions have to be more local, at ward levels, and the impact needs to be constantly monitored.” On Wednesday, Maharashtra recorded more than 100 deaths due to Covid-19, which has bruised the state more than others. As of May 27, Maharashtra alone accounted for 36% of the total cases in the country. With 105 fatalities recorded on Wednesday alone, the state’s toll went up to 1,897. The total number of infections recorded till Wednesday evening was 56,948. Of these, more than 37,000 are active cases. Starting from May 17, the state has recorded more than 2,000 new infections for 10 days in a row. The state’s worst-affected city, Mumbai, reported 1,044 new cases on Wednesday. The state has also witnessed intense political activity in the past few days, with a tussle between the Central and state governments over the Shramik Special trains for migrant workers and the BJP unit in Maharashtra attacking the state government over the growing number of Covid-19 cases.The ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi alliance put up a united front, with leaders from the Shiv Sena, Congress and Nationalist Congress Party addressing a joint news conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-govt-starts-review-and-planning-for-easing-covid-19-related-restrictions-from-june-1/story-TRl3tJaLBY6SDkpo1Nd6lK.html
28-05-2020||India||Govt dealt another blow to citizens, says Chidambaram as RBI bonds scheme stopped||Congress leader P Chidambaram has lashed out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government for discontinuing the Savings (Taxable) Bonds scheme.“Government has dealt another blow to citizens who save, especially senior citizens. It has discontinued the 7.75 per cent RBI Bonds,” Chidambaram said on Twitter. Government has dealt another blow to citizens who save, especially senior citizens. It has discontinued the 7.75 per cent RBI Bonds.“Government did this once before in Jan 2018. I protested vehemently. Next day they re-introduced the bond but reduced the interest rate from 8 per cent to 7.75 per cent. Effectively, after tax, the bond will yield only 4.4 per cent. That is now taken away. Why? I deplore this action,” the former finance minister said in other tweets posted om the same matter.The scheme, commonly known as RBI , is popular among retail investors who looking for safety of principal and a regular income.“The Government of India, hereby notifies that the 7.75 per cent Savings (Taxable) Bonds, 2018...shall cease for subscription with effect from the close of banking business on Thursday, the 28th of May, 2020,” said a notification on Wednesday.The Reserve Bank of India too has notified the Cessation of 7.75 per cent Savings (Taxable) Bonds, 2018. Interest on the Bonds is taxable.The Bonds are issued at par at Rs 100. The minimum subscription was fixed at Rs 1,000.As per the scheme, the bonds are be repayable on the expiration of seven years from the date of issue.The interest rate on bank fixed deposits as well as lending rates are on decline with the Reserve Bank of India lowering the key short-term lending (repo) rate. The repo rate is currently at historic low of 4 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-dealt-another-blow-to-citizens-says-chidambaram-as-rbi-bonds-scheme-stopped/story-by2ptKzSHScuBlja7s54gJ.html
28-05-2020||India||PM pays tributes to Savarkar on birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday paid tributes to freedom fighter and Hindutva ideologue Veer Savarkar on his birth  anniversary, saying he motivated several people to join the freedom struggle.“On his Jayanti, I bow to the courageous Veer Savarkar. We remember him for his bravery, motivating several others to join the freedom struggle and emphasis on social reform,” the prime minister wrote on Twitter.He also shared a clip of his May, 2018 “Mann ki Baat” radio programme in which he referred to Savarkar.“It is indeed sad that we kept on calling the events of 1857 only as a rebellion or a soldiers’ mutiny for a very long time … It was Veer Savarkar who boldly expostulated by writing that whatever happened in 1857 was not a revolt but was indeed the First War of Independence,” he had said.Vinayak Damodar Savarkar was born in 1883.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-pays-tributes-to-savarkar-on-birth-anniversary/story-REzpfKYdopdkHD48vTXUbO.html
28-05-2020||India||What Mamata Banerjee told Amit Shah on Bengal’s Covid-19 crisis handling||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intervention on Wednesday in the alleged “whimsical” functioning of the railways in sending Shramik Special trains to West Bengal and urged the BJP-led Centre not to pursue politics when the state is battling a dual crisis due to the Covid-19 pandemic and trail of destruction left behind by Cyclone Amphan.The state’s infrastructure is “stretched to its limit” after the May 20 cyclone and it can receive very few trains carrying migrant workers back on a daily basis as of now, she said.The state considers the ferrying of a large number of migrant workers by the railways as a big problem for public health. The pressure should be “optimal and well managed”, Banerjee said.“The state government is facing a dual crisis of the COVID-19 pandemic and the devastation caused by Cyclone Amphan. Our infrastructure is completely stretched. The railways is sending Shramik Special trains to the state every day according to its whims and fancies, without even bothering to inform us,” she said.“Where will we keep these migrant labourers for institutional quarantine? This is not the time for politics. We are facing a very tough situation and we need time and space to tackle it,” the chief minister said, ahead of the slated arrival of 11 Shramik Special trains in the state in the evening.Banerjee, one of the most vocal critics of the BJP, hit out at the saffron party, saying, “They can disturb me politically, but why are they causing harm to the state? West Bengal is facing such a major disaster. It will lead to a spike in COVID-19 cases. Who will take the responsibility then?” “I request the prime minister and Union home minister to look into the matter so that there is no spike in COVID-19 cases in the state. The prime minister should intervene,” the feisty Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo said.The TMC government had asked the railway ministry not to send Shramik Special trains to the state till May 26 in view of the devastation caused by Cyclone Amphan. However, a total of 41 such trains are scheduled to arrive in the city this week.The railways, however, said no trains were being “planned” by the national transporter and it was only operationalising the trains that have been asked for by the states.“The railways was given a demand with details such as the number of passengers, originating and destination points. All the related coordination is being done by the state governments. The railways is a medium providing service by arranging rakes based on the request from these states,” it said.Around 41 trains were to leave for West Bengal on May 26, but by midnight, only 10 had departed, the railways said.So far, 35 trains have terminated in Bengal, 22 are in transit and three more are in the pipeline, according to data provided by the national transporter.“It is because of the sudden announcement of the lockdown that we are facing this migrant labourer crisis. I had earlier told Union Home Minister Amit Shah that if his government feels that we cannot handle the COVID-19 crisis, why don’t they (Centre) handle it on its own?” Banerjee said.Asserting that the coronavirus cases were brought under control in the state, the chief minister said there was a recent spike after 25 per cent of the migrant labourers, who returned from other states, tested positive for the disease.Most of these cases were returnees from the hotspot areas in Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, she said.“We had come up with a plan, according to which everyone would have come back in a few days in a phased manner. But we got to know only on Tuesday that many trains are coming from Maharashtra. I myself spoke to the Maharashtra government and they said they were informed of it at 2’o clock the night before. Had the Centre drawn up a plan with us, the railway ministry consulted us, it would have been better,” Banerjee said.Elaborating on her government’s stretched infrastructure, she said it is not possible for it to institutionally quarantine all those returning to the state.“So we have asked the district magistrates concerned to create a block-wise task force for every district to ensure that those returning from Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra can be institutionally quarantined in local schools.“The self-help groups will arrange for food for those at the quarantine centres. After 14 days, they will be tested and those who test negative will be sent home. Those from other states, who are asymptomatic, can go home but must stay in home quarantine for 14 days,” Banerjee said.West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh termed Banerjee’s allegation against the Centre as “baseless”.“All the states have accepted hundreds of trains carrying home their migrant labourers. The West Bengal government is the only exception. It did not create facilities and infrastructure for quarantine for the last two months,” he said.The West Bengal government had last week announced that it would receive 225 Shramik Special trains carrying migrant labourers who were stranded in other states.The issue of migrant labourers snowballed into a major political crisis between the Centre and West Bengal recently, with the former accusing the TMC government of not doing enough to take back migrant labourers from the state. The TMC has dismissed the allegation as baseless.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-mamata-banerjee-told-amit-shah-on-bengal-s-handling-of-covid-19-crisis/story-Hwq3wQCsavLMko2whFe0EO.html
28-05-2020||India||Delhi farmer buys plane tickets to send 10 workers to their homes in Bihar||A farmer in Delhi sent 10 of his workers home on a flight to their home state Bihar on Thursday.Pappan Gehlot, a mushroom farmer, paid for their flight tickets because the migrant workers have toiled for him for the last 20 years.“We tried to book trains tickets but were unable to do it. Then we thought these people have been working with us for over 20 years, their journey should be safe. So we got them medically examined and arranged flight tickets for them,” Pappu’s brother Niranjan Gehlot told news agency ANI.The workers said their dream came true. “I had never thought I will get to sit in an aeroplane, our employer made the arrangements for us,” said one of the workers as he arrived at the Indira Gandhi International Airport to board the 6 am flight to Patna on Thursday.The workers said they can’t believe they are going to their villages in Samastipur - not walking or cycling thousands of kilometres, or scrambling for a seat on a bus or train - but on a plane.“I never imagined in my life that I will be traveling in a plane. I don’t have words to express my happiness. But I am also little bit nervous about what I have to do when we reach the airport tomorrow,” Lakhinder Ram, who will be returning with his son, told news agency PTI.Ram, 50, who has been working for Gehlot for 27 years, said the farmer has been taking care of their food and accommodation since the lockdown began on March 25.Gehlot has a mushroom farm in Delhi’s Tigipur village. He bought the tickets worth Rs 68,000 and also gave each worker Rs 3,000 so they don’t face any problems when they reach their home state.Gehlot said that he has been doing mushroom farming since 1993 which has a season between august and March.These workers wanted to go to their village in the first week of April, but couldn’t because of the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-farmer-buys-plane-tickets-to-send-10-workers-to-their-homes-in-bihar/story-zgT37jbr4wnzEkjJQYe5fI.html
28-05-2020||India||Centre steps in after locust attack spreads to 5 states, swarm splits into two: Latest updates||Centre has pitched in to help states battling an attack by the desert locusts. The Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare on Wednesday informed that locust control operations have been stepped up in affected states to combat the menace.“89 fire brigades for pesticide spray; 120 survey vehicles; 47 control vehicles with spray equipment and 810 tractor-mounted sprayers have been deployed for effective locust control, as per requirement during different days,” the ministry said.Five states - Rajasthan, Punjab, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh - are affected by the swarms moving at great speed. Also Watch | Crop-eating locusts wreak havoc in Rajasthan & MP“As of today, there are active swarms of immature locust in Barmer, Jodhpur, Nagaur, Bikaner, Ganganagar, Hanumangarh, Sikar, Jaipur Districts in Rajasthan and Satna, Gwalior, Seedhi, Rajgarh, Baitul, Devas, Agar Malwa district of Madhya Pradesh,” the ministry said on Wednesday.In Maharashtra, officials reported that the swarm split into two groups after pesticide was sprayed between Monday night and Tuesday morning. One group is moving towards Parseoni in Nagpur while the other entered Bhandara, said officials.“The swarm travelled over 100 km on Wednesday from Andhalgaon, Mohadi taluka back into Ramtek tehsil in Nagpur, and again into Tumsar Bhandara. They have settled at orchards surrounding Temani,” said Ravindra Bhosale, divisional joint director agriculture.The state agriculture department issued a ‘locust warning alert’ for all 11 districts in Vidarbha and four districts in north Maharashtra.In view of rising concerns of possible locust attack, the Odisha government on Wednesday issued guidelines for farmers in the state and asked them to take preventive steps suggested in this regard.As preventive measures, farmers need to spray their crops with a solution based on neem seeds extract mixing with water or they can also spray their crops with neem-based pesticides available in the market by mixing with water as suggested in the guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-steps-in-after-locust-attack-spreads-to-5-states-swarm-splits-into-two-latest-updates/story-lra4i6m3HtdQzKhvTI06NI.html
28-05-2020||India||Police intercept car with 30 kg explosives, foil attack in J&K’s Pulwama||A major attack was averted when the police in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama intercepted a vehicle moving about with 30 kg explosives in it on Wednesday night. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) team is at the spot. The police got tipped off last night about a terrorist moving around with an explosives laden car ready to blast at some location. It then sent out search parties in search of the vehicle.The suspected vehicle, a Santro car, came and a few rounds were fired. Soon after, the owners of the vehicle abandoned it and escaped. The officials claim that the vehicle was to be used to target either a camp or forces.On inspection, the police found explosives in a drum on the rear seat of the vehicle. It suspected more explosives could possibly be fitted elsewhere in the vehicle. The car was then kept under watch overnight and the people in the nearby houses were evacuated. The bomb disposal squads were called in and the vehicle was exploded in situ by them as moving the vehicle would have involved a serious threat . #WATCH J&K: In-situ explosion of the vehicle, which was carrying IED, by Police in Pulwama. Major incident of vehicle-borne IED explosion was averted by Police, CRPF & Army after Pulwama Police got credible info last night that a terrorist was moving with an explosive-laden car pic.twitter.com/UnUHSYB07CThe car reportedly had a number plate of a scooter registered somewhere in the Kathua district of Jammu zone.The incident is a chilling reminder of February 2019 Pulwama attack when a Maruti Eeco smashed into the CRPF convoy by suicide bomber Adil Ahmed Dar, killing 40 troopers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/car-with-explosives-abandoned-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-pulwama-nia-team-at-spot/story-J6IfkUDYI2Sw7DPzkodm3K.html
28-05-2020||India||Respite from heatwave from today, rainfall, thunderstorm likely in parts of India||The maximum temperatures are likely to recede from Thursday in north India, which is reeling under a severe heatwave, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has said.“Under the influence of a western disturbance and an east-west trough in lower levels and likely occurence of rain-thunderstorm from 28-30 May, maximum temperatures over plains of north India are likely to recede fom 28th onwards with substantial reduction of heatwave condition from 29th May,” the IMD said in its bulletin on Thursday morning.The western disturbance currently lies over northeast Afghanistan and adjoining Pakistan at 5.8 kilometre above mean sea level, the IMD bulletin further said.Western disturbance is a cyclonic circulation which originates in the Mediterranean Sea. Traversing central Asia, it brings rains to the hills and plains when it comes in contact with the Himalayas.The weather department said that the maximum temperature over North-West, Central and West India will fall by 3-4 degrees Celsius during next two-three days.There is also prediction of isolated to scattered rainfall or thundershowers in North-West and Central India.The temperature in north and central India has been hovering around 47 degrees Celsius for the past four-five days.The maximum temperature in Churu, which had recorded 50 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, was 49.6 degrees on Wednesday, followed by 48.9 degrees in Ganganagar and Bikaner districts of Rajasthan.Bathinda in Punjab recorded 47.5 degrees Celsius, while it was 47.2 degrees in Delhi.On the progress of the southwest monsoon, the IMD said it had further advanced into some more parts of south Bay of Bengal, most parts of Andaman Sea and Andaman and Nicobar Islands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/respite-from-heatwave-from-today-rainfall-and-thunderstorm-expected/story-B7JlXvBswOq0TasUy2iPlI.html
28-05-2020||India||Tablighi Jamaat: Delhi Police files 35 charge sheets against 376 foreigners||The Delhi Police has filed total 35 charge sheets against 376 foreign nationals from 34 countries for attending a religious congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz here in violation of visa conditions and indulging in missionary activities amid the Covid-19 outbreak in the country, officials said on Wednesday. Twenty charge sheets against 82 foreigners from 20 countries were filed before a court on Tuesday and 15 charge sheets against 294 foreign nationals from 14 countries were filed on Wednesday. According to the charge sheets, all the foreign nationals have been booked for violating visa rules, violating government guidelines issued in the wake of coronavirus pandemic and regulations regarding the Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and prohibitory orders under Section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure. They have also been booked for offences under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Foreigners Act. The Centre has cancelled their visas and blacklisted them. The 294 foreigners charge-sheeted on Wednesday belonged to Malaysia, Thailand, Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka and several African nations. Out of the 82 foreigners chargesheeted earlier, four of the accused were from Afghanistan, seven each from Brazil and China, five from the US, two each from Australia, Kazakhstan, Morocco and the UK, one each from Ukraine, Egypt, Russia, Jordan, France, Tunisia, Belgium, eight from Algeria, 10 from Saudi Arabia, 14 from Fiji and six each from Sudan and Philippines. A large congregation organised by the Tablighi Jamaat in the Nizamuddin area of the national capital in March had emerged as a major hotspot of coronavirus in the country. Some of the participants, who were later tested positive for coronavirus, had travelled to their home states across the length and breadth of the country. More than 900 foreign nationals who are accused in the case belong to 34 different countries and charge sheets are being prepared country-wise, under sections of the Foreigners Act, Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and relevant sections of the IPC. On Tuesday, the police had submitted a status report in the Delhi High Court. In the status report, the Delhi Police had said that in order to substantiate the legitimacy of their visit to India, the passports of 723 accused foreigners and ID cards of 23 accused Nepal nationals have been taken into possession. Over 150 accused foreign nationals were unable to provide their passports. Efforts were being made to account for all the passports in this regard, the report stated. The punishment for various offences under penal provisions ranges from six months to eight years of imprisonment. An FIR was registered against Tablighi Jamaat leader Maulana Saad Kandhalvi and six others on March 31 on a complaint of the Station House Officer of Nizamuddin. Kandhalvi was later booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder after some of the attendees of the religious congregation died due to Covid-19’, police said. Many Tablighi members and their contacts have been quarantined in the country after the Centre and the state governments conducted a “mega operation” to identify them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tablighi-jamaat-delhi-police-files-35-charge-sheets-against-376-foreigners/story-VHqzEaD1iKijI8LWUXvZqN.html
28-05-2020||India||Bihar crosses 3,000-mark, Delhi records 792 fresh Covid-19 cases: State tally||India witnessed another big spike in the number of Covid-19 cases on Thursday. For the seventh day in a row, more than 6,000 new cases of Covid-19 were recorded, according to the Union health ministry which took the nationwide tally to close to 1.6 lakh. According to the Union health ministry update, India recorded 6,566 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours (between Wednesday and Thursday).The number of coronavirus disease fatalities in the country stands 4,531 while over 67,691 people have successfully recovered from the disease.The national capital saw its tally of confirmed cases rising to 15,257 with 792 fresh cases being recorded on Wednesday - its highest single-day spike. The death toll in Delhi rose to 303.Here’s a look at Covid-19 state-wise tally.The Big 4MaharashtraCovid-19 cases in Maharashtra reached 56,948 on Thursday. The state has recorded 1,897 deaths so far, highest in the country, while 17,918 have recovered from Covid-19.Tamil NaduThe southern state has the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country with 18,545 coronavirus disease cases so far. While 9,909 people have recovered from the disease here, 133 patients have died.GujaratIn Gujarat, the third worst-hit state by the coronavirus pandemic, the total number of Covid-19 cases reached 15,195 on Wednesday. Gujarat has seen 7,549 people recover from coronavirus while 938 people have died.DelhiThe national capital reported 792 infections of the disease till Thursday, according to the Union health ministry.It comes days after the number of new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in Delhi fell below 500 (412) for the first time in a week. The fresh cases took Delhi’s infection tally to 15,257.States with more than 6,000 casesRajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan reached 7,703 on Thursday. The state has reported 173 fatalities while 4,457 patients have recovered from the infection in the state.Madhya PradeshAs many as 7,261 people have been infected from Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh till date. Three hundred and thirteen people have died from Covid-19 in the state while 3,927 have recovered.Uttar PradeshThe number of Covid-19 positive cases have jumped to 6,991 in Uttar Pradesh. While 3,991 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 182 have died from the infection here.Situation in other statesIn West Bengal, coronavirus cases have crossed the 4,000-mark and are rapidly rising. The number of infected cases in West Bengal reached 4192 on Thursday. There have been 289 deaths and 1,578 recoveries in the state. Domestic flight services resumed in the state on Thursday.States with under 3,000 coronavirus cases include Telangana, Odisha, Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka and Haryana. Bihar saw a spike in the number of cases and its tally now stands at 3,061.Kerala crossed the 1,000-mark in the number of Covid-19 cases. On Thursday, the state’s tally stood at 1004.Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Tripura have reported under 500 Covid-19 cases while Goa, Puducherry, Meghalaya and Manipur have less than 100 Covid-19 cases.Union territory of Dadra Nagar Haveli has reported two cases of Covid-19.All coronavirus patients in Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Mizoram have recovered. Arunachal Pradesh has two Covid-19 patients and one of them has recovered.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-crosses-3-000-mark-delhi-records-792-fresh-covid-19-cases-state-tally/story-T2Eu54PWYxhqsMl2uNpciP.html
28-05-2020||India||After 12-hour rescue ops, 3-year-old who fell in Telangana borewell found dead||A three-year old boy who accidentally fell into an open borewell on Wednesday evening died due to asphyxiation in Telangana’s Medak district, the police said on Thursday.The body of Sanjay Sai Vardhan, who belonged to Patancheru in Sangareddy district on the outskirts of Hyderabad, was retrieved by National Disaster Response Force teams in the early hours of Thursday, after nearly 12 hours of intense rescue operations.The incident took place in the boy’s maternal grandfather Mangali Bhikshapathi’s agricultural fields in Podichanpally village of Papannapet block. Sai Vardhan, along with his parents -- Goverdhan, a photographer by profession and Naveena, a homemaker -- and two elder brothers came to the village a few days ago.The police said Bhikshapathi had abandoned the borewell as he did not get any water even after digging 120 feet deep. On Wednesday morning, he got another borewell drilled but it also did not yield any water.As he was getting the borewells filled one after the other, Goverdhan came there along with his wife and children. “While his grandfather was inspecting the closure of one of the borewells, Sai Vardhan accidentally slipped into the adjacent open borewell,” the police said.Soon after the boy fell into the borewell, police rushed to the spot along with revenue officials of Medak district to begin the rescue operations. A 108-emergency vehicle also arrived at the spot to supply oxygen into the borewell, after locating the boy about 25 feet deep in the borewell.Medak collector K Dharma Reddy, superintendent of police Chandana Deepthi, revenue divisional officer Sai Ram and local MLA Padma Devender Reddy also visited the village to supervise rescue operations.The district authorities summoned teams of NDRF, which along with the revenue authorities, started digging a parallel well by roping in excavators to reach out to the boy.“Despite our best efforts, we could not save the boy, who apparently died of asphyxiation. His body was retrieved from under the debris that fell on him at around 25 ft,” a police official involved in the rescue operations said.The body of Sai Vardhan has been shifted to a government hospital in Medak for post mortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-12-hour-rescue-ops-3-year-old-who-fell-in-telangana-borewell-found-dead/story-DY7FguFo9i7b9CD5Sk2IhP.html
28-05-2020||India||Another big spike of over 6,500 Covid-19 cases in India, nearly 200 dead in 24 hours||The number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Thursday reached 1,58,333 after 6,566 new infections were reported across the country in the last 24 hours, Union health ministry data showed.This is the seventh day in a row that India has reported more than 6,000 cases of Covid-19. On May 22, 6,088 people tested positive and 6,535 contracted for the respiratory disease on Tuesday. On Wednesday, 6,387 new cases were reported.The country’s death toll stands at 4,531 after 194 people died between Wednesday morning and Thursday morning. There were 67,691 patients who have recovered and sent home so far.Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Delhi continued to report a rise in Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra’s tally of has reached 56,948 and the death toll due to Covid-19 in the state rose to 1,897.The health ministry, meanwhile, said on Wednesday that the recovery rate has improved further to cross 42 per cent.“Around 42.45 per cent patients have recovered so far,” a senior health ministry official said.The national capital saw its tally of confirmed cases rising to 15,257 with 792 fresh cases being recorded on Wednesday - its highest single-day spike. The death toll in Delhi rose to 303.A nationwide lockdown has been in place since March 25 and its ongoing fourth phase is scheduled to remain in place till May 31. While several relaxations have been given in this phase for allowing various economic activities, educational institutions are among those that have not been allowed to open as yet.Domestic flights also began operating this week in a phased manner, while special migrant trains have been running since May 1 and special international flights were started on May 7 to bring back stranded Indians and expatriates from abroad.India figures among the 10 worst-hit countries in terms of spread of the deadly virus. Globally, more than 56 lakh have tested positive so far, and over 3.5 lakh have lost their lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-big-spike-of-over-6-500-covid-19-cases-in-india-nearly-200-dead-in-24-hours/story-r20H6VndcNAb9tJrk7xcWO.html
28-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Kolkata airport welcomes passengers as flight services resume in Bengal and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kolkata airport welcomes passengers as flight services resume in Bengal after 2 monthsDomestic flight operations to and from West Bengal resumed from Thursday after a gap of two months due to the Covid-19 lockdown. The Kolkata airport tweeted that 122 passengers from Delhi arrived in the city after two months. Read moreHome guards, nurses test positive at Covid-19 hotspots in OdishaTwo personnel of the home guards in Odisha’s Covid-19 epicentre of Ganjam district and two nurses working in a Covid-19 hospital of Balasore district, another epcientre, tested positive for the coronavirus disease on Wednesday. Read moreExtradition of Huawei’s CFO to US may deter Canada-China relationsTies between Canada and China could be headed towards further trouble as a judge in Vancouver cleared the way for continuing extradition proceedings against a senior executive of Huawei. Read moreFate of World T20, IPL could be decided todayThe International Cricket Council (ICC) could decide on the fate of the 2020 T20 World Cup at its board meeting on Thursday. The World T20 is scheduled in Australia from October 18 to November 15. Read moreMenstrual Hygiene Day 2020: Do I really need periods?It’s one of those days. You are on a period –and it is heavy and painful. You don’t feel like going for work. But you have an important meeting and cannot possibly miss it. You drag yourself out of bed, down a few pain killers and rush to work. Read moreXiaomi’s Redmi Display A1 with 23.8-inch screen size launched in China: Here’s the price and specificationsXiaomi seems to be in a product launch spree these days. A few days ago it introduced an 18W dual-port charger, screwdriver kit, Redmi Smart TV and new Redmi laptops in China. Now, it has launched the Redmi Display A1 in its home country. Read moreUGC asks Universities and colleges not to compel students into paying fees immediatelyHigher education sector regulator UGC has asked universities and colleges to not compel students into paying fees immediately and look into individual cases sympathetically. Read moreHrithik Roshan is quarantining with ex Sussanne Khan and their sons at his stunning sea-facing home. See inside pics, videoHrithik Roshan, whose chock-a-block calendar rarely allows him to spend months at a time with his sons Hrehaan and Hridaan, is using the lockdown to spend quality time with them. Read moreWatch| India-Nepal tussle: Oli govt forced to defer new map claiming Indian territory||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-kolkata-airport-welcomes-passengers-as-flight-services-resume-in-bengal-and-all-the-latest-news/story-tfO0bNlB02aoYSfb9OT8mO.html
28-05-2020||India||Kolkata airport welcomes passengers as flight ops resume in Bengal after 2 months||Domestic flight operations to and from West Bengal resumed from Thursday after a gap of two months due to the Covid-19 lockdown.The Kolkata airport tweeted that 122 passengers from Delhi arrived in the city after two months.“Welcome Back Passengers! #KolkataAirport saw the arrival of 122 passengers from @DelhiAirport after two long months and 40 passengers departed to #Guwahati. Proper checks were followed and regular sanitization was carried out in terminal which was abuzz with passengers,” the (Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose International) NSCBI airport posted on Twitter. Welcome Back Passengers!#KolkataAirport saw the arrival of 122 passengers from @DelhiAirport after two long months and 40 passengers departed to #Guwahati. Proper checks were followed and regular sanitization was carried out in terminal which was abuzz with passengers. pic.twitter.com/ZrqmPBxDSfThough domestic flight operations across the country began on May 25, it could not be restarted in Bengal as the state machinery was involved in the relief and restoration work after Cyclone Amphan devastated many areas of the state.On Thursday, 10 flights will take off from Kolkata and an equal number will arrive in Kolkata, news agency PTI reported. Domestic flight operations will also resume at Bagdogra airport in north Bengal too.Passengers flying to and from the state have been asked by the West Bengal government to mandatorily submit “filled up self-declaration form” at the time of arrival to the state health officials.As per the revised guidelines issued by the state government for flyers, all passengers will have to undergo health screening at the point of departure and only “asymptomatic” passengers shall be allowed to board the plane.On arrival, health screening shall be done for all the passengers.The government further said in the guideline that all samples will be collected for coronavirus test from all symptomatic passengers.Those with moderate or severe symptoms will be admitted to the dedicated Covid-19 health facility and managed accordingly. Those with mild symptoms will be asked to go for home or institutional isolation.Adequate publicity for maintenance of social distancing norms and health hygiene protocol should be done at the airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-airport-welcomes-passengers-as-flight-services-resume-in-bengal-after-2-months/story-PaV3OSMLMeStsp6oufRIBO.html
28-05-2020||India||Home guards, nurses test positive at Covid-19 hotspots in Odisha||Two personnel of the home guards in Odisha’s Covid-19 epicentre of Ganjam district and two nurses working in a Covid-19 hospital of Balasore district, another epcientre, tested positive for the coronavirus disease on Wednesday.Ganjam SP Brijesh Roy said that the two home guards were on duty at Jagannathpur railway station where the Shramik Special trains have been bringing in the migrant workers since the last three weeks. They were also on duty at a quarantine centre.“Both of them are undergoing treatment in Parala Maharaja Covid-19 hospital and Tata Covid-19 Hospital,” he said. So far, 368 people in Ganjam have tested positive of which 283 recovered.The two nurses were on duty at a Covid-19 hospital of Balasore town for quite some time. Both of them have been admitted to the same hospital where they did their duty.On May 19, a 36-year-old police constable of Bhubaneswar had tested positive after coming in contact with a migrant labourer of other state. However, the cop was later discharged from the hospital as he was asymptomatic.Apart from police and nurses, a doctor too has been infected by Covid-19. A paediatrician working in a government hospital in Cuttack tested positive on Tuesday.Meanwhile, a two-month-old baby girl died on Wednesday at a quarantine centre in Bargarh, a day after she arrived with her migrant worker parents. The baby’s parents and other family members had returned from Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday.The exact cause behind her death is yet to be ascertained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-guards-nurses-test-positive-at-covid-19-hotspots-in-odisha/story-hrbgumiH17u9b3tlj4R01N.html
28-05-2020||India||Maharashtra returnees account for 84% of 135 new Covid-19 cases in Karnataka||As many as 84% or 114 of the 135 new coronavirus cases reported in the past 24 hours in Karnataka were of Maharashtra returnees, even as the state’s tally rose to 2,418, an official said on Wednesday. “New cases reported from Tuesday 5 p.m. to Wednesday 5 pm, 135,” said a health official.The total cases with domestic travel history were 123 of the 135 cases. Covid-19 cases spiked in Uttara Kannada, Dakshina Kannada, Yadgir, Bidar, Raichur, Bengaluru Urban, Davangere, Kalaburagi, Hasssan, Belagavi and Udupi.Of the total cases, 1,588 are active, while 781 patients have been discharged. Fourteen patients are currently admitted in ICU.In the past 24 hours, 17 patients were discharged, including four in Shivamogga, three in Bidar, two each in Benglauru Urban, Davangere and Kalaburagi, and one each in Chikkamagaluru, Haveri, Dharwad and Ballari.A majority of the new infections are now occurring in younger people.Of the new cases, 82 were men and 53 women, including 16 patients below the age of 10.On Wednesday, three patients succumbed to Covid.A 69-year-old woman from Yadgir district succumbed to the virus.The Maharashtra returnee was brought dead to a designated hospital at Yadir on May 20 and had tested corona positive now, an official said.This was Karnataka’s 45th Covid death and Yadgir’s first.Similarly, a 49-year-old man from Bidar died of the Virus, the state’s 46th Covid death and Bidara¿s third.“Positive case 1,712adiagnosed with Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) admitted in designated hospital, Bidar with complaints of fever, cough and breathlessnessadied on Wednesday,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-returnees-account-for-84-of-135-new-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka/story-jW02YsU5oZV3xs0vq65nCN.html
28-05-2020||India||Odisha couple who had eloped to Gujarat gets married at quarantine centre||A a time when Covid-19 has caused massive upheaval across the world, a young couple in Odisha got married in the quarantine centre. The two had ran away from their respective homes in January this year.On Sunday, Saurabh Das, a 19-year-old youth of Sagada village in Puri district, married his girlfriend Pinkyrani Das in a quarantine centre of the same village at the end of 14 days of quarantine. Saurabh had eloped with Pinkyrani in January this year to Ahmedabad where the two lived as a couple. However, the girl’s family did not lodge any FIR against the boy’s family.As the plastic factory where Saurabh worked in Ahmedabad shut during lockdown, the two were finding it difficult to come back. After much difficulty, the couple landed in Sagada village and were quickly taken to the quarantine centre.“The two had checked into the quarantine centre on May 10 after returning from Ahmedabad, where Saurabh worked in a plastic factory. Though both showed symptoms of Covid-19, their swab tests came negative. As the girl had become pregnant, we decided to get them married off. They got married on May 24 after completing 14 days of institutional quarantine at Sagada village,” said Nimapara Block Development Officer Manoj Behera.As their family members can’t enter the quarantine centre, two teachers who are in-charge of the quarantine centre acted as parents of the bride and groom. The local sarpanch, ward member, ASHA worker and Anganwadi worker helped organise the marriage.Meanwhile, 76 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Odisha on Wednesday, taking the number of cases to 1,593, a health department official said.Of the fresh cases, 74 people returned to Odisha from other states like Gujarat, West Bengal, Maharastra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Jharkhand, and were lodged at different quarantine centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-couple-who-had-eloped-to-gujarat-gets-married-at-quarantine-centre/story-rmWIg1FmCxc0YIvuwZhEQJ.html
28-05-2020||India||RLP demanded CBI probe in alleged suicide of Rajasthan cop, launches campaign||The Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP), which has three legislators in Rajasthan Assembly, has launched a campaign seeking probe by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the alleged suicide of a police officer in Rajgah, in Rajasthan’s Churu.Party convenor and Lok Sabha MP from Nagaur, Hanuman Beniwal, directed party office-bearers and workers to give memorandum at every district and sub-division headquarters across the state with the demand.Earlier, on Tuesday, the RLP had launched a social media campaign, posting 1,50,000 tweets to make the hashtag for CBI probe trend. “We have tried to draw attention of the CM towards this demand but there’s been no reaction from him so far,” Beniwal said.Vishnu Dutt Vishnoi, station house officer of Rajgarh police station, killed himself in the government quarters early Saturday morning. He left two suicide notes, one addressed to the Superintendent of Police (SP) and the other to his family, in which he spoke about being under pressure.“People of the state want to know the reason that led an SHO to kill himself. He also made notes in the general diary of the police station about being under pressure,” the RLP leader said.The state government has ordered inquiry by the crime branch into the case after Vishnoi’s family alleged foul play. A crime branch team led by SP Vikas Sharma arrived in Rajgarh on Tuesday to begin investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rlp-demanded-cbi-probe-in-alleged-suicide-of-rajasthan-cop-launches-campaign/story-XadOLQwMd6cy88iKvFFxHK.html
28-05-2020||India||Aggression by India will receive ‘befitting response’: Pakistan foreign minister||Pakistan’s foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi said on Wednesday that any aggression by India will receive a “befitting response” as the country’s people and armed forces are always ready to respond to any Indian hostility.State-run Radio Pakistan quoted Qureshi as saying in a statement: “India’s bellicosity is aimed at provoking Pakistan, but we showed patience in the past and will exercise restraint in future too.”However, the foreign minister made it clear Pakistan “reserved complete right to its defence”.Qureshi said the Pakistan Army had downed an Indian drone on Wednesday, which “was an example of India aggression”. He didn’t give details or say where the drone was downed.He added, “We prefer the path of peace but our desire for calm should not be misconstrued as our weakness.” Qureshi also gave a “clear message to India to act sensibly and live with peace”, according to Radio Pakistan.There was no immediate response to Qureshi’s remarks from Indian officials. The immediate provocation for Qureshi’s comments also couldn’t be ascertained.In recent weeks, both Qureshi and Prime Minister Imran Khan have repeatedly targeted India over the situation in Kashmir and the treatment of India’s minorities. Khan even criticised India’s handling of a border row with Nepal in a tweet on Wednesday.India has rejected such criticism by Khan and other Pakistani leaders as interference in the country’s internal affairs and called on Pakistan to address the issue of terrorism emanating from its soil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aggression-by-india-will-receive-befitting-response-pakistan-foreign-minister/story-jIVQvaExQqIdTDtRwHLJMO.html
28-05-2020||India||List steps to deal with serious Covid-19 patients, says Delhi HC||Taking suo moto cognisance of a video clip in which a man had alleged that his mother, who was suffering from Covid-19, was asked to shift hospitals, the Delhi high court on Tuesday directed the Centre and the Delhi government to state the arrangements made to deal with serious patients who require immediate hospitalisation. The court sought the status of functional and responsive helpline numbers being operated by them, as many of them were said to be found non-functional.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar said the authorities “should assess the adequacy of the helpline capacity and state whether the same is sufficient to deal with the present call traffic and the traffic expected in the future”.The Delhi government’s standing counsel (criminal), advocate Rahul Mehra provided 10 helpline numbers, including the interactive 1031. He said the helpline numbers were found not to be functioning efficiently and instructions had been issued to set the system in order in the next couple of days.Appearing for the Centre, standing counsel Kirtiman Singh told the court that number 1075 is an all-India helpline number and about 3 lakh calls have been received on it so far.The order comes after the court took note of a video by one Deepak Bhardwaj, who had said the deputy medical superintendent of Max Hospital, Patparganj, asked him to arrange a ventilator and bed in another hospital. His mother, Shyama Sharma, was admitted to Max Hospital, Patparganj, on May 19 and tested positive for Covid-19 on May 21.“The patient continues to be under treatment at Max Hospital, Patparganj, and the family is convinced with her course or treatment at the hospital. Since the matter is sub-judice, we would not like to comment any further,” said Max Healthcare in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/list-steps-to-deal-with-serious-covid-19-patients-says-delhi-hc/story-YWZWDbGohJwd3sLNbeb2DL.html
28-05-2020||India||Former PM HD Deve Gowda likely to re-enter parliament through Rajya Sabha||Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda, who celebrated his 87th birthday on May 18, is likely to re-enter Parliament through the upper house when elections are held in the next few months. Four Rajya Sabha MP’s from Karnataka are retiring on June 25 after completing their six year term. These include two from Congress – Prof M V Rajeev Gowda and B K Hariprasad while Prabhakar Kore from the BJP and D Kupendra Reddy from JDS will also retire.Deve Gowda lost the May 2019 Lok Sabha polls from Tumkur after giving up his traditional stronghold of Hassan to his grandson Prajwal Revanna, who is the sole party representative in the lower house of parliament. His grandson had even offered to resign to ensure that Gowda could go back to Lok Sabha in a by-election, but the offer had been rejected. Now, the Janata Dal (Secular) leader is said to be interested in going back to parliament ‘to protect Karnataka’s interests.’A contestant from Karnataka requires 44 votes to get elected to the Rajya Sabha. Given the current composition of the Karnataka assembly, BJP can elect two Rajya Sabha MP’s and Congress one but it will have additional votes to spare. The Janata Dal currently has 34 members in the state legislative assembly and is short by 10 votes to send a RS member on its own. JDS MLC and party spokesperson T A Saravana said, “There is an internal party consensus that the state would enormously benefit from having a senior voice like that of Deve Gowda ji in parliament. Even the country would benefit from listening to his sage advice and suggestions. While the party is insisting that he stand for polls, he is yet to take a decision.”Saravana claimed that the additional votes required could be mopped up easily given the ‘excellent equations’ that the former PM maintains across party lines. ‘He is in good health, travels across the state and country building the party and addressing people’s issues. So the party has unanimously requested him to contest the RS polls. There is no senior leader like a Mallikarjuna Kharge, a Veerappa Moily or a K H Muniyappa in parliament today to protect Karnataka’s interests as BJP has failed to do so, that is why Gowdaji should be in the upper house.”Congress spokesperson V S Ugrappa said any decision on supporting Gowda’s candidature for the upper house would be taken by the ‘party high command.’ However, another senior leader of the party who did not want to be identified said, “Gowda has very good equations with Congress President Sonia Gandhi. They have been on politically cordial terms even after the fall of the Congress –JDS coalition government. So the party may not be averse to helping a secular senior leader like him get back to parliament as we need a strong opposition to counter the fascist forces ruling the country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-pm-h-d-deve-gowda-likely-to-re-enter-parliament-through-rajya-sabha/story-zeLquIjQfHXdtYIAb8h4SL.html
28-05-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Japan, which unveiled a trillion-dollar stimulus to revive its Covid-19 and lockdown-hit economy in April, is reported to be planning another trillion-dollar stimulus. The new package includes direct subsidies for companies to help them cover cost of operations, health care aid for individuals, and financial assistance for local governments. The government of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has said the total of the two packages will work out to around 40% of the country’s GDP. The fiscal cost of the package isn’t clear. HT’s analysis estimated that of the previous trillion-dollar package at around $454 billion or 9.13% of the country’s GDP.The European Commission has also said it is working on a package of between €750 billion ($823 billion) and €1 trillion ($1.97 trillion) for the region, including a proposed 500 billion euro ($548 billion) fund that can be tapped by member-countries whose economies have been hit hard by the coronavirus disease pandemic.Also read: A shrinking GDP could curtail govt’s ability to help the poorThe US Heroes Act, which promises $3 trillion in support, including another round of cheque payments to eligible Americans, is unlikely to be passed by the Senate, but there is talk that there will be a follow-up to the $2 trillion package announced in the CARES Act. Including monetary measures, HT’s Analysis calculates that the US has announced a total package of $6.8 trillion of which the fiscal cost is around $940 billion (this is a very conservative estimate and excludes loans and guarantees).The consensus estimate for the fiscal cost of India’s $277 billion package is around $29 billion.Plans for a second stimulus package underline a realisation in countries around the world that the impact of the pandemic and the lockdowns enforced by many countries to slow its spread – in the absence of a cure, a lockdown is the only way to break the chain of infections – will be harder than originally estimated. According to a Reuters poll of economists released on Wednesday, the global economy will shrink by 3.2% this year. A similar poll last month predicted that the decline would be 2%. The International Monetary Fund said in April that global growth would decline by 3% in 2020, and its managing director Kristalina Georgieva recently hinted that this could be revised down. But while this year will be worse than estimated, the economists polled by Reuters expect next year to be better. The poll said global growth could bounce back to 5.4% next year, up from the 4.5% predicted in April’s poll, although this is largely the base effect shining through.Also read: China’s industrial firms profits fall in April but at slower paceIn India too, the immediate impact on the economy is likely to be harder than expected. State Bank of India said in a research note on Tuesday that India’s GDP could contract 40% in the first three months of the year (April-June) and by 6.8% in the full year (2020-21). But it expects growth to bounce back once the country opens fully. Rating agency Crisil, which sees the country’s economy shrinking 5% in 2020-21, expects the first quarter to see a 25% fall in GDP.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Much depends on when the country reopens fully. And much also depends on when India starts flattening the curve – in terms of new cases of Covid-19, and in terms of daily deaths. Neither is happening right now: both the number of new cases and that of daily deaths are continuing to rise. And at some point in the next few months, India is going to have to start thinking in terms of a new package that can revive demand, put more money in the hands of individuals, and financially support businesses. It’s probably too early to talk of it – the ink on the documentation of the first package is yet to dry and many of the notifications related to it are yet to be issued – but developments in the US, Japan, and Europe clearly indicate that the economy needs more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-e9RPSrUeDUyhx6KQ6k0wnJ.html
28-05-2020||India||Telangana sees sharp spike of 107 new Covid-19 cases, 6 deaths in single day||Telangana witnessed a sharp spike in the number of deaths and Covid-19 positive cases in the last 24 hours on Wednesday – with a total of six deaths and 107 positive cases, the highest single-day jump, an official bulletin released by the state medical and health department said.The previous highest death toll due to Covid-19 in a single day in Telangana was also six, recorded on March 30. Similarly, the largest number of positive cases for Covid-19 recorded previously was 79 on May 11.However, the department has not disclosed from where these fresh six deaths were reported, their age group and their other ailments.The number of deaths and positive cases in Telangana has been rising steeply after the commencement of Lockdown 4.0 on May 18, with a lot of relaxations on the movement of people including commencement of passenger trains, Vande Bharat flights bringing stranded Indians from abroad and also restoration of intra-state bus services.In the last 10 days, as many as 29 deaths and 547 Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Telangana.The state government has attributed this steep rise in the number of deaths and positive cases to the large scale return of migrant labourers from other states, particularly Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Gujarat, foreign evacuees and deportees from Saudi Arabia, many of whom had tested positive.As many as 297 out of the total number of 2,139 positive cases recorded till now, are that of migrants (173), foreign evacuees (30) and deported people from Saudi Arabia (94).“On Wednesday alone, out of 107 positive cases reported in the state, 68 cases are that of Saudi Arabia deportees (49) and migrants (19). Only 39 cases belong to the local Telangana people, mostly from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC),” the official bulletin said.The government said as many as 458 deportees were airlifted from Saudi Arabia and they have been quarantined in government quarantine centres in the state. Of them, 94 deportees have tested positive for Covid-9 and are being treated.Similarly, large numbers of migrant workers are returning from various other states of the country. These migrants are being home quarantined and monitored by the district authorities. Symptomatic migrants are being tested. Majority of the migrants are arriving from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Bihar etc.The department has requested the people to inform the local authorities in case they identify any persons and migrants who have recently arrived in the towns and villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-sees-sharp-spike-of-107-new-covid-19-cases-6-deaths-in-single-day/story-X8ReiVAPeseEmjlHCtH3nM.html
28-05-2020||India||After several deaths in Shramik trains, railways says most died of existing illness||At least seven deaths were reported Wednesday aboard Shramik Special trains that have been deployed to ferry stranded migrants but the Indian Railways said most died of existing illnesses.“A few deaths have been reported in Shramik special trains. In most of these cases, it is discovered that those who died are old sick people and chronic disease patients, who had actually gone to big cities for medical treatment and could come back only after the Railways started these Shramik Special trains,” a spokesperson of the ministry of railways said.The statement came after a 35-year-old migrant was found dead on board a Shramik Train in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur. A video of her body lying on the platform next to her toddler went viral video on social media on Wednesday.The ministry attributed her death to a recent heart surgery, adding that it was also corroborated by her son.In another case reported from Bihar’s Muzaffarpur a four-year-old son of a migrant was found dead on board another Shramik Train. Another case from the state was from Danapur where the body of a 70-year-old man was found in Mumbai-Darbhanga Shramik Special train.The body of 45-yea-old a resident of Bahraich (UP) was also found aboard the Vapi-Deen Dayal Upadhayay Junction Shramik Special train when it reached Sagar railway station. According to the railways, the body has been kept at the district hospital for postmortem and for testing for Covid-19.In Uttar Pradesh, a trainwith migrant workers from Mumbai reached Manduadih, Varanasi, on Wednesday with two dead passengers -- physically challenged Dashrath Prajapati (30), and 63-year-old Ram Ratan Gaud, according to PTI.“It is reported that both the people who died were already ill. One of them, a 30-year-old man, was suffering from paralysis, and was undergoing treatment for kidney disease in Mumbai. The other person, who was 63, also suffered from other diseases,” the ministry of railways tweeted responding to allegations over two death in the train from Mumbai.Till Wednesday, the national carrier has run 3,604 Shramik Trains ferrying nearly 48 lakh migrants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-several-deaths-in-shramik-trains-railways-says-most-died-of-existing-illness/story-oQCQKeSzGYHEGQdQYI31fM.html
28-05-2020||India||Telangana govt allows further relaxations to lockdown norms||Announcing further relaxations in lockdown norms, the Telangana government on Wednesday permitted all types of shops, except malls, to open in Hyderabad and lifted the night ban on plying state Road Transport Corporation buses.It, however, decided not to allow buses to run in Hyderabad for some more days in view of the Covid-19 case load, an official release said.Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao held separate meetings with ministers andofficials on the Covid-19 situation and implementation of lockdown, among others and took decisions on several issues, it said.These include payment of the Aasara (social security) pensions without any change, extending provision of 12 kg rice per person to the poor in June in view of the lockdown and continuing with deductions in salaries of public representatives, All India Service officers, government employees, outsourcing and contract workers for this month.However, the financial assistance of Rs 1,500 given to poor ration cardholders would not be given in June, it said.The measures have been taken keeping in view the fall in states income, the release said.Telangana should get Rs 12,000 crore every month, but in May it received Rs 3,100 crore, including the states share in Central taxes (Rs 982 crore), it said.On the COVID-19 situation, Rao said people should not feel scared about the virus as the spread was not an alarming scale, though relaxations were given in lockdown guidelines.However, they should be cautious and alert to avoid contracting the virus.The Chief Minister said the health department was ready to meet any increase in the number of positive cases and provide treatment.He instructed officials concerned to provide emergency care to Covid-19 patients whose health deterioates, the release said.Rao had earlier announced extension of lockdown in the state till May 31, with several relaxations, as per which shops in Hyderabad were allowed to open on an alternate odd- even basis.As per the relaxations on Wednesday, all shops in Hyderabad, except malls, will be allowed to open from May 28.State-run RTC buses have been exempted from night time curfew restrictions and will be allowed to ply to their destinations.Taxis, autos and other passenger vehicles would be allowed at the bus stations, the release said. Separately, Rao instructed the officials to hold low key state formation day celebrations on June 2 due to the lockdown. “Except paying tribute to the martyrs and hoisting the national flag, no meetings or programmes should be held,” the release quoted him as having said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-govt-allows-further-relaxations-to-lockdown-norms/story-ubE7ulbz2sR4XRcfJ0fqRM.html
28-05-2020||India||Daati Maharaj arrested for flouting Covid-19 lockdown norms||Self-styled preacher Daati Maharaj was arrested on Wednesday night for violating the lockdown rules by organising a religious ceremony at Shanidham temple in Asola in South Delhi on May 22, police said. “Daati Maharaj was arrested in the case registered under Indian Penal Code’s Sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 34 (common intention), Section 54B of Disaster Management Act, and Section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act at the Maidan Garhi police station on May 23. He has been released on bail,” said deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur.Earlier in the day, the police claimed to have questioned Daati Maharaj in the case. Police officers privy to the probe said that they found a poster placed on the temple’s boundary wall, “urging people to come for the gathering on May 22.”“The temple had been opened to the public despite government orders prohibiting religious gatherings,” a senior police official said.Investigators said that at least 40 outsiders had attended the ceremony in contravention of the nationwide lockdown in place to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Police had registered the case after videos and photographs of the religious gathering were circulated on social media platforms. Though HT could not confirm the authenticity of the video clips, DCP Thakur had confirmed that the visuals were of the self-styled preacher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daati-maharaj-arrested-for-flouting-covid-19-lockdown-norms/story-MqCEhkNZHS8kAQQEqcwp1K.html
28-05-2020||India||List pvt hospitals for free or affordable Covid care: SC tells Centre||New Delhi The Supreme Court has tasked the Centre with identifying private hospitals across the country for treating patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) either free or at a nominal cost. The suggestion came on Wednesday from a bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde that was hearing a public interest litigation on the excessive fees being charged by private hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients.“When the nation is fighting a battle against the pandemic, all such private hospitals which are running on public land (allotted at concessional rates) or are running under the category of ‘charitable institutions’ should be called upon to provide the hospitalization and treatment to the Covid-19 patients pro bono publico (free of cost) or on no-profit basis,” said the petition filed by lawyer Sachin Jain. The bench, also comprising justices AS Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy, found merit in the submission and requested solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, to take instructions on the matter and respond within a week. The bench told Mehta, “These hospitals have been given land either free of cost or at concessional rates. They should treat patients also for free.”Jain informed the court that a majority of the citizens cannot afford the high cost of treatment at private hospitals. Many are not covered by insurance schemes that can foot the bills. Given the resource crunch of government-owned hospitals, he argued, “It becomes apparent that the government/public health sector alone may not be able to manage the fallout, and hence, extensive participation of the private healthcare sector would be required.”At present, there is no cost regulation for treatment of Covid-19 patients in private hospitals, the petition filed by Sachin Jain stated. . The petition said hospital beds and basic treatment can be offered at a concessional prices; surgical operations or procedures can be kept out of the ambit of free or concessional treatment.Mehta informed the apex court that a decision of this nature is a policy matter and must be left to the wisdom of the government. He agreed to take instructions on the matter from the government and respond to the concerns expressed by the court within a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/list-pvt-hospitals-for-free-or-affordable-covid-care-sc-tells-centre/story-mOsM1qhyUXssEvsj1ybdsL.html
28-05-2020||India||Some issues bound to be there among 3 allies: Maharashtra minister Nitin Raut||Maharashtra energy minister and senior Congress leader Nitin Raut says there is a certain level of dissatisfaction among his party colleagues over lack of consultation in the state cabinet. In an interview to HT, he says some of proposals put forth by Congress ministers are not cleared by the cabinet. However, Raut claimed that the MVA government is stable and will last its full term.Q: There are reports of rift within the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA). What do you have to say?A: These are all baseless rumours. The coalition government is stable and will last its full five year term. There is clearly an attempt by the BJP to detabilise the government but they will miserably fail in their nefarious designs.Q: But there are differences within the alliance. Privately, Congress ministers have been complaining about lack of consultation on important matters.A: When three partners are running a government, some issues are bound to be there. We try to resolve them internally. Though the chief minister (Uddhav Thackeray) talks to us on some matters, we are not completely satisfied.Q: Could you please elaborate that?A: ‘Baat karne ke liye karte hain par kam ki baat jab hoti hai to kaam nahi hote hain (He talks to us but our work doesn’t happen). I mean the chief minister does consult us but majority of our proposals are not cleared and not even discussed in the cabinet.Q: Did you discuss this with the chief minister?A: Yes, we have expressed our unhappiness.Q: And you have conveyed that to your party high command?A: NaturallyQ: Was Rahul Gandhi’s statement an expression of that resentment?A: Rahulji is our leader. What he said is that Congress on its own is in power in Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and Puducherry and there we will not shy away from implementing any pro-poor or pro-people scheme. But we are a small partner in Maharashtra and we are not going to dictate terms to our other allies and we will not be able to fulfil all our promises. But that doesn’t mean that Rahul ji talked about pulling the government down. He meant that the alliance partners should address the shortcomings in the consultation process. A leader has to keep in mind the interests of his party and the workers.Q: But Congress is also considered a weak link in the ruling alliance and reports suggest that some of its legislators might even desert the party and pull the plug on the government?A: Congress has its own ideology and identity. All our legislators got elected on the basis of the party ideology and its strengths. I don’t think the BJP will break us.Q: Did you consult NCP chief Sharad Pawar who is said to be an architect of this alliance?A: Congress is a national and an independent party. We talk to our leaders and we will not go and express our displeasure before leaders of other parties. That will be inappropriate.Q: BJP is demanding President’s rule in Maharashtra, saying the government has failed in containing the coronavirus in the state, especially Mumbai.A: We are fighting a war against coronavirus. BJP talks failure in Maharashtra but the highest death rate in the country is in Gujarat. So, will they demand President’s rule there. The spike in coronavirus cases in Mumbai is because of the Namaste Trump event as hundreds of people came there from Ahmedabad. There is a conspiracy in destabilising the Maharashtra government. Their dream of toppling the government will never come true. Also, the increase in Covid cases is because Maharashtra is the only state that has done aggressive testing and also the recovery rate is much higher than other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/some-issues-bound-to-be-there-among-3-allies-nitin-raut/story-U5onAjbRFFbLP6ue2xqFPO.html
28-05-2020||India||Congress, BJP spar over government’s Covid strategy||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi interacted with Harvard University professor Ashish Jha and Swedish epidemiologist Johan Giesecke as part of his series of video conversations with thought leaders on the Covid-19 crisis and its consequences on the Indian economy. In their separate interactions with Gandhi, Jha said the lockdown has slowed down the virus spread while Giesecke insisted India will ruin its economy if the severe restrictions continue. The two underlined the pandemic was unlikely to go away soon and called for aggressive testing to contain it.Jha, who heads the Harvard Global Health Institute, said the world will not be free of the problem until 2021. “The reason to do the lockdown is that you are trying to slow down the spread of the virus. It is a 12-18 month problem and the world will not be free of this till 2021,” Jha said during the interaction, the video of which was released on Wednesday.Giesecke, who believes lockdowns are of no use and eventually most people will get the virus, said India should have a soft lockdown as more deaths will occur due to severe restrictions than the disease. “...it is better to skip the lockdown, take care of the old and the frail, and let the other people have the infection. Most people will not even be sick. They will not even notice they have it.”But if there is a lockdown, Giesecke, a professor emeritus at Stockholm’s Karolinska Institute and an infectious disease clinician, said, relaxing it has to be step-wise. “You wait 2-3 weeks and see what happens. If the disease spreads, take one step back and try another restriction. ...it will take months to really ease out the lockdown completely. But you must bring one restriction at a time and see what happens.” Jha called for the need to create a certain level of confidence while opening up the economy, saying if people are scared, they will not engage in economic activity. He expressed confidence that a vaccine for the disease will be available in a year. “Three vaccines from America, China and Oxford are showing promising results and maybe one of them or all turn out to be effective...”Gandhi, who has held similar interactions with former Reserve Bank of India governor Raghuram Rajan and Nobel Laureate Abhijit Banerjee, said there will be a new world after the pandemic and the balance of power between China and the US will change. “Like 9/11 was a new chapter, this [Covid-19] is a new book,” Gandhi said when Jha asked him how will the virus change the society in two years. “I hope this disease will bring people together and bring them to the realisation that you cannot fight this disease as different religions, or different communities, different castes, different genders.”Gandhi said there is a potential opportunity in fighting the disease. “We are able to start a conversation and understand that everybody is required to fight this disease and we are able to work together to get out of this.”Jha said the world is entering an “age of pandemics” and added there has been an increasing frequency of these outbreaks over the last century. “This one [Covid-19] is the worst in 100 years. I am confident that this is not the last large global pandemic... in the next 20 years.”Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad separately hit out at Gandhi and accused him of trying to weaken the country’s resolve to fight the challenge. Ravi added Gandhi’s campaign is based on “falsehood, deliberate twisting of facts and misinterpretation”. He added if anyone has better solutions to offer, the government is willing to look into them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-bjp-spar-over-govt-covid-strategy/story-GAntB92qneKKny2boPb43N.html
28-05-2020||India||Kerala testing rate poor, say health experts; CM denies charges||Kerala, which was the first state in India to report a coronavirus (Covid-19) case in January, has been praised for high recovery and low mortality rates related to the pandemic even as many experts say its testing rate is poor and needs to be ramped up before caseloads shoot up.The state has done only 58,200 tests in four months and ranks very low in terms of total testing, they said citing official statistics. “It is a fact the state’s test records are very low. It seems it failed to heed periodic warning of experts,” said physician and health activist Sreejith N Kumar. Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, for instance, have conducted 2, 28, 914 and 4,12, 714 tests until May 27 since reporting their first cases in early March, according to the Union health ministry statistics.. The Indian Medical Association (IMA)’s Kerala chapter on Tuesday wrote a letter to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and urged him to increase the testing or else the state will have to pay a heavy price. “To get a clear picture, at least 100 tests per lakh [100,000] population will have to be done. Other states are way ahead in testing. Testing facilities should be allowed in the private sector also,” the letter said, a copy of which HT has seen. It added the government was not sharing information with IMA though it has pledged full support to it.The letter said no details regarding symptomatology, clinical progression of the disease, or patient details have been shared with the medical community. This is important as all medical professionals treating Covid-19 patients need to know these details, it added. As criticism mounted, Vijayan on Wednesday said, “We have decided to increase the number. By this weekend, we hope we can do at least 3,000 tests daily.”  On Wednesday, 1,400 tests were conducted. The average rate of testing nationally is 539 tests per million and the country is ranked 52nd among countries in terms of the testing rates.But experts said the number is still too little as the caseload has increased in the last few days with the easing of travel restrictions and the return of expatriates. “We have been telling the government [over the] last two months about the need to increase tests. Even a layman will say the test rate is abysmally poor. Without tests, how will you get a picture? The state is precariously poised if it did not increase its numbers,” said IMA state president Dr Abraham Verghese. Epidemiologist Jayaprakash Mulliyil also said the state should increase its tests at least now. “Tests are best way to contain the spread. We have experiences of some foreign countries before us. It is time for Kerala to increase them,” he said.The number of Covid-19 cases in Kerala crossed the 1,000 mark as 40 more people were diagnosed with the disease on Wednesday. Vijayan said out of 1,004 cases reported so far, 445 are active while the state has reported six fatalities. He added the new cases include 28 people who have come to Kerala from other states and eight expatriates. Experts say out of 1,150 tests done on Tuesday, 67 people tested positive and added without a large volume of tests, a clear picture will not emerge. “Test, test, test this was the World Health Organisation’s slogan from day one. We missed it somehow. Results are there to see. A man who was injured after a jackfruit fell on his head and a driver who received spinal injury in an accident were tested positive recently,” said Dr Verghese. Union minister V Muraleedharan, who is from Kerala, accused the state government of often hiding data to keep its record intact. “If you check the list of total tests in the country, Kerala’s position is 26th. No doubt, in public relations, it is the first. It is not even following ICMR [Indian Council of Medical Research] guideline on community transmission tests,” said the minister in Delhi. Vijayan dismissed these charges saying people who are jealous of the state’s track record are raising such apprehensions. “Our records speak. We have increased the number and doing sentinel tests also. There is no need of any worry on this count,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-testing-rate-poor-say-health-experts-cm-denies-charges/story-Cgyk2VwQJOcRewlbTSBbbL.html
28-05-2020||India||Train Covid helpers, volunteers in infant, postnatal care: Govt||The Union health ministry has asked states to train coronavirus disease “warriors” making house visits in antenatal, postnatal and newborn care as well so that they can screen and refer to health experts those in need of medical attention in Covid-19 containment and buffer zones.“House-to-house visits conducted by healthworkers/Covid warriors for Covid purpose should be utilised to enquire about services required for pregnant women and linkages to the required service should be provided. Covid warriors may be trained in these services, if required,” reads the directive, a copy of which has been seen by HT.A key focus areas is women who need abortion services. The surveillance workers will be trained to track and screen women, newborns and children for early signs of illnesses other than Covid-19. “Unwanted pregnancies have negative impact on maternal and new born health. Regulating fertility is thus a necessity. There is need to enhance provision of safe abortion services besides post-partum and post-abortion contraception,” said the health ministry directive.The ministry has asked for condoms to be treated as essential medicines, and said home delivery of the contraceptives should be allowed in containment zones. Some of the other services outlined as essential are related to pregnancy care and management, newborn care and childhood illness management, immunization services, management of severe acute malnourishment (SAM) among children, family planning services, comprehensive abortion care services and adolescent health services.“Critical services for women, children and adolescent should be provided irrespective of their Covid-19 status. Under no circumstances should there be a denial of essential services,” said the directive.Most of the health services, except for those requiring mass gathering such as health camps, are allowed in the green zones. Days are fixed for services such as sterilisation, which is now provided to not more than 10 people a day for effective implementation of social-distancing norms.The directive comes in the backdrop of concerns that non-Covid essential health care services could be neglected as the entire effort is concentrated on combating the coronavirus disease. “The virus is here to stay so waiting for it to go doesn’t make sense. What we need is to adapt our strategies keeping in mind the social distancing and other preventive measures outlined by the government of India. It’s essential to start work now as, if you look at the data between March and April this year as compared to last year, there is a serious shortfall in providing non-Covid essential services, including in the maternal and child health sphere. It could lead to higher morbidity and mortality,” says Antaryami Dash, head of nutrition, Save the Children, a non-profit working in the areas of child care and nutrition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/train-covid-helpers-volunteers-in-infant-postnatal-care-govt/story-eugDa7vFTSdplPv6LTPQ7M.html
28-05-2020||India||House panels to begin work starting June 3||Indian Parliament’s in-house panels will resume work on June 3 with a briefing from Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on the situation arising out of the lockdown caused by the coronavirus outbreak and the ministry’s handling of it, officials aware of the plan said.Bhalla will brief the standing committee on home affairs, chaired by senior Congress leader Anand Sharma, said the officials, who requested anonymity. After Parliament closed on March 25 as a part of the nationwide lockdown, no parliamentary committee meeting has taken place in the past two months. The standing committee on home affairs will be the first to meet since.No other parliamentary committee had intimated plans to hold a meeting to the secretariat as of press time, but the panels on information technology and environment and the Public Accounts Committee are expected to announce their schedule shortly.Discussions of the home ministry panel on Covid-19 assume importance because the ministry has played a pivotal role in imposing and enforcing the lockdown and offering relaxations in restrictions to the public from time to time. Bhalla’s briefing is expected to be followed by questions from members.Sharma’s decision to resume in-camera meetings of the house panel at the Parliament complex comes after an ambitious plan for the panels to go online, amid a suspension of air and train travel, failed to take off amid concerns that the confidentiality of these standing committee meetings could be compromised.Rajya Sabha chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla had asked officials to submit reports on the possibility of digital meetings but as train and flight services resumed, the officials felt there was no immediate need for online meetings because members are in a position to travel to Delhi.Nine rooms in Parliament House and annexe have been identified for holding regular meetings of the 24 department-related standing committees and another six rooms are being prepared for other committees of both Houses, said an official.Naidu and Birla have also told officials to arrange more chairs and microphones in the committee chambers to ensure social distancing....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-panels-to-begin-work-starting-june-3/story-y29c1uBAlw6Ulwrwg2jHSN.html
28-05-2020||India||Welfare mainstay MGNREGS off to slow start this fiscal year||At a time when millions of migrant workers who have returned home to the hinterland are looking towards it for a livelihood, the government’s flagship rural jobs programme has got off to a slow start in the new financial year, government data show, amid the lockdown and social distancing norms put in place to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Less than 57% of the people who sought work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) have received jobs under the programme, which offers 100 days of manual work a year to at least one member of every rural household. According to the official data, 50.81 million people have sought jobs under MGNREGS since the financial year started on April 1; until May 27, 28.80 million received work, generating 315 million person days of employment. In all of last year, 84.5% of workers who demanded jobs were provided work.Economist Himanshu, an associate professor at Jawaharlal Nehru University, said the figures reflected a slow start to the MGNREGS. “The underlying reasons for such a low rate of jobs being provided are the initial phase of the lockdown that had stalled all activities and many states had been late in identifying works for beneficiaries. And even when the work started the health norms and social distancing order had created some restrictions,” Himanshu said.MGNREGS had its budget raised byRs 40,000 crore under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (self-reliant India programme) of the Narendra Modi government, taking total funding for the programme this financial year to more thanRs 1 trillion, as the Centre sought to meet ad-itional demand for rural jobs.Also Read: The government must ramp up MGNREGSSince the lockdown for the coronavirus disease started on March 25, millions of migrant workers, mainly daily-wage earners who found themselves without a job, have left the big cities and headed home to their villages in states such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha and West Bengal. Uttar Pradesh alone claims to have received 2.6 million returning workers.Many of them have been looking to MGNREGS as they seek to tide over the Covid-19 crisis. Rural development ministry officials maintained that job allocations under the scheme, the only welfare programme with a budget in excess ofRs 1 trillion, would gain momentum. They expect MGNREGS to emerge as the backbone of the rural economy amid the pandemic.Three figures are key to assessing the impact of MGNREGS on the ground: jobs demanded by beneficiaries, jobs offered by the states and jobs provided to workers.While 50.8 million people have demanded jobs in the first two months of the financial year, the states have offered work to 50.1 million, out of whom only 28.8 million have been actually provided jobs. According to experts, this vast difference between the number of jobs offered and actually provided underlines the role of the states.“The states always show very high levels of job offers to avoid paying compensation as per the law. But the impact of MGNREGS actually depends on how many people finally get work,” said Himanshu.With the harvest season coming to an end and the lean agriculture season setting in plus millions of returning migrants seeking jobs, the pressure on MGNREGS for work allocation is expected to grow. April-July is the peak season for MGNREGSRural development ministry officials also said that until May 22,Rs 33,300 crore — one-third of the revised budget for the full year — had already been sanctioned, out of whichRs 24,500 crore had been released to the states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/welfare-mainstay-nregs-off-to-slow-start-this-fiscal-yr/story-wKzHckEuxJ6cl2YwaJf4YO.html
28-05-2020||India||MVA puts up united front in Maharashtra; Rahul Gandhi assures support||A day after Congress leader and former party president Rahul Gandhi’s remark that the party was not “the key decision-maker” in Maharashtra triggered speculation about the fate of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Gandhi spoke and reiterated their commitment to the alliance. Separately, key ministers from the three parties in the government — Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress — had an extensive internal meeting and then put up a united front defending the government’s handling of the pandemic. A person familiar with the communication between the Sena and the Congress said that after Gandhi’s remark on Tuesday — where he had emphasised the importance of Maharashtra, asked for more support from the Centre to the state, but also pointed out that Congress was a supporting party in the government — created a controversy, Sena MP Sanjay Raut and Congress communication cell chief Randeep Singh Surjewala agreed on the need for “damage control”. This was followed by a conversation between Aaditya Thackeray — minister in the Maharashtra government and the CM’s son — and Gandhi on Tuesday itself, leading up to the CM-Gandhi conversation on Wednesday. According to the person quoted above, Gandhi told the CM that his government was doing a good job to combat the coronavirus pandemic despite the difficulties the state had been confronting. “The Congress leader clarified that his statement was taken out of context, that he had been categorical in stating the importance of the state, and its centrality in the battle against the pandemic. Gandhi also reiterated that the Congress stood in full support of the government, and that the MVA was capable of handling the pandemic,” a second Shiv Sena leader, familiar with the conversation, said. The CM, according to the Sena leader, told Gandhi that the Congress was an equal part of decision making in the state, said the leader quoted above. Separately, key MVA ministers held an extensive meeting at chief minister’s official bungalow, Varsha, on Wednesday. While the CM was not present, the meeting, chaired by deputy CM and NCP leader Ajit Pawar, was attended by senior ministers Jayant Patil, Subhash Desai, Balasaheb Thorat, Anil Parab, Varsha Gaikwad and Aslam Shaikh. The ministers focused on both steps being taken to handle the pandemic in Mumbai — which accounts for about one-fifth of India’s cases of the coronavirus disease — and a strategy for the gradual relaxations in the lockdown after May 31. The fourth phase of the lockdown ends this Sunday. “A presentation was made by chief secretary Ajoy Mehta and other officers on the current status of the Covid-19 cases in Mumbai and other parts. We discussed the strategy for gradual relaxations in the lockdown in Red zones after May 31 and how to narrow down the size of the containment zones further. A few more commercial activities are likely to be allowed in cities such as Mumbai from next week,” said minister Aslam Shaikh who attended the meeting. The three parties then put up a united front publicly, with revenue minister and state Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat, water resources minister and state NCP chief Jayant Patil and parliamentary affairs minister Anil Parab of the Shiv Sena addressing a press conference to counter allegations made by leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday. The former chief minister had attacked the government for its handling of the pandemic. “To give a rebuttal to my one press conference, so many ministers had to take meetings for hours. If they had held these meetings earlier, the situation in Maharashtra would not been so dire. But, three ministers of MVA came together and gave contradictory information to try and prove me wrong,’’ said former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis. He said the ministers claimed several wrongs including that state did not get PPE kits from Centre but the latter has created a dashboard that shows which state got how much. ``As on May 26, 9.88 lakh PPE kits and 16 lakh N 95 masks have been given to Maharashtra. The centre has also given Rs 468 crore to state to purchase such equipment. Also, the ration offered at subsidised rates of Rs 3 and Rs 2 is given by the Centre only and the Union government purchases it at Rs 24 and Rs 32 per kg,’’ he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mva-puts-up-united-front-in-maha-rahul-assures-support/story-Q7mXZ94QOa3qMaEl0DYV9H.html
28-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan: A trail of death, misery and destruction||At around 1am on May 19, winds of around 80kmph woke up Sanjay Mandal. A resident of Bali island in the Sunderbans delta of West Bengal, Mandal was used to the vagaries of weather in a region where roughly four million people co-exist with heavy monsoons, storms and the Royal Bengal Tiger. “Winds of that speed mean nothing to us,” said Mandal. He turned around and slept.The government had, two days before, sounded an alarm about an approaching super cyclone and evacuated roughly 360,000 people from the delta, but Mandal was not one of them. Next morning, he knew something was wrong. When the high tide surged in at around 8am, it was not the silt-heavy muddy water that the Muriganga river usually brings, but clear blue water that swelled two metres above the usual height.Mandal and his neighbours quickly formed a plan.Pivoting on their experience with the 2009 cyclone Aila, they took 35 boats out and rowed their way onto shallow waters – the logic being that the gushing river would inundate their low-lying island homes but they would safely wait for the low tide to set in – a common practice in the marshy mangrove delta where the cycle of tides drives local life.By 3pm – the time the tide was supposed to withdraw – they knew the plan had gone awry. The squall tossed their boats around and threatened to crash them into rocks, and the winds were only gathering speed. Mandal and his friends rowed towards land, abandoned the boats at the shore and ran towards a local school. At 4pm, the mobile phone connection snapped.From atop the building, the group saw their boats being hurled violently in the wind, followed by the sound of the embankment crumbling and columns of water submerging their homes. “We thought nothing would survive this disaster. Everything would be finished,” he said.The cyclone subsided around 11pm. “Our homes weren’t there anymore, only water. It was as if large parts of our island had disappeared in six hours,” he said, admitting that he had underestimated the strength of the cyclone.Of the 35 boats, only one was in sailable condition; so the group took it out to survey the damage. They rowed for roughly 50km, and two hours, but found nothing but breached embankments, washed away roads and clumps of mud where kachha houses once stood.“Everywhere we went, there was only water. In every island, embankments had given way. Nothing had survived Amphan.” The embankment near Mandal’s home was part of a 16km stretch of decades-old fortification protecting the low-lying islands against storm and tide surges. None of that remains. Neither do roughly 600,000 houses in the delta. For eight hours on May 20, Amphan pummeled four Bengal districts in the fiercest cyclone in the region in a century that left 86 people dead and roughly 10 million people homeless. In interviews with 20-odd local residents, bureaucrats, experts and activists a week later, HT pieces together the trail of devastation that chief minister Mamata Banerjee has estimated at Rs 1 lakh crore.PRECARIOUS LIFE Perched on the southernmost tip of Bengal, the Sunderbans mangrove archipelago is collection of 102 islands – 54 of which are inhabited – that form a crucial carbon sink and eastern India’s biggest protection against coastal flooding and cyclones.The islands have had human settlements since the 1830s but the population started swelling at the turn of the century and then exploded in the decades following the partition of Bengal when hundreds of thousands of people – many of them poor and lower-caste refugees – cleared forests and settled in the islands. Many of them started building embankments to keep the saline water out of the low-lying islands, and began farming.Today, roughly a third of the population of the south 24 parganas district – under which the largest chunk of population falls – is scheduled caste and another third is Muslim. “Even among the Muslims, many are other backward castes and do small jobs or are farm labourers,” said Swagato Sarkar, a sociologist and professor at Jindal Global University.Ringed by rivers and battered by torrential showers, farming and fishing are the two mainstay of the under-developed region whose biggest concern is transportation, though it is barely 80km from the state capital Kolkata. Rickety water ambulances make up for the lack of proper health facilities and a bridge to the biggest island, Sagar, has been hanging fire for decades.It takes four or five showers every year to just wash away the salinity of the soil; in other regions, when the flood water recedes, it leaves plants as is; in the Sunderbans, the salty water makes plants rot. In the past three decades, a new problem has worsened the lives of locals: Hastening soil erosion and rising sea levels that have submerged whole islands and forced people to relocate to new homes every 20-30 years. For these groups of climate refugees, the cyclone has not only destroyed their houses but also left them without a homeland.Sheikh Abdul Rauf is one of them.Now 50, Rauf is one of 3,000-odd residents of Ghoramara island, from where residents started fleeing 30 years ago because the river was slowly eating into the land.“I heard from my father that we had several hectares of land. Back then the island was huge. But gradually all our land got eroded. Every time we lost a house, we had to rebuild it a little inland. Even three years ago the river was at least 25 min walk from my house. But now it is barely 15 metres away,” he added.Rauf worked as a tailor in Kolkata’s Kidderpore area but rushed to his village on March 23, fearing an impending lockdown. The next day, he summoned his four sons, Ansaruddin, Ashrafuddin, Azaharuddin and Akramuddin, from Kerala, where they worked as daily labourers. All congregated at their house in Ghoramara by March 25, the day the government clamped a nationwide lockdown.On May 18, district authorities hustled them out to a relief camp in Sagar.Rauf held out for two days but he, too, was shifted on May 20 – hours before the cyclone struck his house. On Sunday, the family returned to the village only to find that there was nothing to return back to – the house, the backyard and the farms were all marooned.“We were forced to leave the island in search of work. Then the virus forced us back. Now the cyclone has again evicted us. Where are we supposed to go now?” said Rauf. THE DEVASTATION The scenery changes quickly along the Basanti highway, the 80-km road that takes tourists from the bustle of Kolkata to the tip of the Sunderbans.Highrises give way to red-brick factories and chimneys of the Kolkata leather complex and then coconut palms and thatched roof huts on either side of the road, small bag and jewellery making units functioning out of single-storey asbestos sheds and vendors selling Rs 5 tea cakes and small packets of puffed rice spiced into the special Bengali delicacy: Jhalmuri. The drive takes roughly three hours.Now, however, the road is the high land as fields and villages continue to be under chest-deep water and villagers scramble to reach relief camps. Stretches of train tracks are under water and swathes of land in the north and south 24 parganas – the peculiar name dating back to a unit introduced by the Delhi Sultanate and implemented by the British – continue to be cut-off from the mainland.In November 2019, cyclone Bulbul, which was much lower in intensity than Amphan, pounded the same region and damaged 500,000 houses and roughly 300,000 acres of agricultural land. A second, and more severe cyclone in Amphan has broken the back of the region, said Sunderbans development minister Manturam Pakhira.“No mud house is left. Pakka houses have no roofs. There is no block in the district that is not affected. Even if we want to restore electricity quickly, there are no poles left. The main jetty in the area has been washed away and more than 650,000 houses destroyed,” he said.The block development officer of Sagar, Sudipta Mandal, admitted that it would take another week for communications and electricity to be normalized. “Even in Bulbul, we had phone connectivity, this is worse,” he added.In the neighbouring district of East Midnapore, at least 330,000 houses have been damaged and 4,000 sq km, comprising 20 blocks and five municipalities have been hit said Partha Ghosh, district magistrate of East Midnapore.“Evacuated people have been kept in more than 800 shelters. Tarpaulins have been sent and dry food is being distributed. At the same time embankments which have been breached are being repaired so that saline water could be stopped from entering the villagers,” added Ghosh.Locals know this, and their biggest concern is water supply. Despite being surrounded by rivers, the main source of drinking water is tubewells, which are rendered useless because saline water has seeped into them. In some areas of Gosaba and Rangabelia, residents have put mud embankments around tubewells. Others stand in queues for an hour to fill a pitcher of water. “After Aila, it took many years for the ground water to become sweet. Plus, arsenic in the local groundwater sources will make water problems worse,” said Asim Mondal, a professor at the Ramkrishna Mission College, Narendrapur.As for electricity, no one holds out hope. “We will be lucky if power comes back even in three months,” said Sanjay Mandal.ASSESSING DAMAGE Experts say the cyclone’s damage can be classified into tangible losses in the short and medium term and intangible changes in the socio-political fabric, agriculture and environmental patterns in the long term.The first concern is agriculture, on which roughly two-thirds of the region is dependent. The worry, experts say, is not that the standing crop will be affected – by the end of May, 80% of the Rabi crop is harvested anyway – but the impact of the saline water on the main kharif season.“The soil is heavy and drainage is almost non-existed. Because of the damaged embankments, salt water has entered the soil and may continue to do so at high tides. In the next two months, paddy will get badly hit,” said Himadri Sekhar Sen, a former professor at Calcutta University.To gauge the extent of the problem, he pointed at the salinity after the 2009 Aila cyclone, whose effect still lingers. “In salty water, the crop is not able to suck nutrition from the ground, so 50% yield may be affected. Draining the soil is the only solution but it wasn’t done sufficiently after Aila,” he added.The state government says 105,000 hectares of crops have been damaged, and 100,000 hectares of betel leaf cultivation – the most-popular source of income in Sunderbans islands.Crops are affected even in districts 300km from the Sunderbans. In Murshidabad, for example, mango growers say their produce is destroyed. “This time we were expecting good harvest of mangoes. But Amphan has left nothing of the mango orchards,” said Mosharaf Hossain, Murshidabad zilla parihad chief.The second concern is fishing, another economic mainstay especially deeper into the Sunderbans. The cyclone destroyed hundreds of bheris, or fishing ponds, and swept saline water into fresh-water sources; as a result, the supply of fresh-water fish to Kolkata – the main revenue generator – has been disrupted.“This land, those fishery ponds – they are all gone. Fishes worth crores of rupees have been swept into the river Buri from a few neighbouring villages alone,” said Asit Mahato, a resident of the north 24 parganas district.Mahato supported a family of five with the produce from his one-acre pond, locally called bheri. He spent Rs 1 lakh for the lease amount and almost an equal amount to buy fish seeds. He had taken a loan from a bank to pay the lease amount for the fishery pond. Now his pond is ruined, and the walls and roof of his two-room house have collapsed.“We have no home, we have no resources left and we have no prospect of earning with all the lobsters, tiger prawns and bektis gone. We are doomed.”The third concern is animal husbandry, because many families have cattle that they use for personal use and make milk products. The government says 900,000 domestic animals perished.In Kakdwip, residents of Gobindarampur village have started selling their cattle because saline water has left nothing for the cattle to eat or drink. All the tube-wells are under water, sweet water ponds are full of saline water and dead fish and crops on the fields destroyed. Food and drinking water is scarce and cannot not be spared for the cattle, residents say. “We had to collect the rotten fish floating all around and dump them into the river,” said Sujoy Mahata, a villager.A fourth lingering concern is Covid.The state has roughly 4,000 infections and the two-month-long lockdown has gutted the economy, especially the supply chains to Kolkata that most of the south Bengal countryside is dependent on. With no earning, the cyclone is likely to further eat into the savings of the poor.Secondly, fear of the virus has hampered relief with concerns of no social distancing at camps. “We have been tried to wash hands and keep distance but it is the toughest challenge,” said Pakhira. Ironically, the relative isolation of the Sunderbans that was a boon in March and April – there was a virtual ban on entry of visitors to the islands – has now turned into a problem. “Very few of us are infected, but we are worried that those coming for relief from Kolkata, even the volunteers, can carry the virus,” said Mandal.How quickly can the economy rebound? The answer, experts say, is embedded in Bengal’s economic structure that is wedded to political party affiliations.“In the last 20-30 years, a rent-seeking economy has been created. Most of the economic activities in Bengal are mediated through the party structure, from government programmes to market transaction,” said Sarkar.The fear in such structures is that ruling party functionaries may get more relief. “Mamata has herself appealed to be neutral,” said Sarkar.The first enterprises to resuscitate could be the small garment-making units, groups of women making puffed rice and running micro units from their homes. “Many of these are run by Dalits and OBC Muslims,” said Sarkar.The impact on the fragile local ecosystem and alarming erosion is unpredictable, but experts say it was a long-time coming.A 2016 paper published in Climatic Change journal said the Sunderbans – with an average elevation of 2 metres above sea level – was “under threat from inundation and subsequent wetland loss”.Tuhin Ghosh, one of the authors of that article and a professor at Jadavpur University, said the problem of erosion was exacerbated by the incomplete building of guide-walls (only one of the seven proposed structures meant to protect islands from storm surges was fully built) that changed the course of rivers.“The repairing of the embankments was never done properly, so they couldn’t take the pressure of the cyclone surge. Now that they’ve been left more brittle, the rate of continuous erosion may increase,” he said. Moreover, with dams being built upstream, the delta has been starved of sediment that helps secure marshy islands “It is now 1/10th. So the islands are sinking. When sedimentation decreases, erosion increases,” he said.This can have unforeseen consequences. If the local climate changes, it disturbs vegetation, wildlife and the thousands of people whose livelihoods depend on it.In the Sunderbans, for example, harvesting honey from combs is the only economic activity for marginal tribespeople deeper in the delta. But combs thrive at 12-14 feet, and hives at lower heights are not stable. If continuous erosion begets stunted trees, it will devastate the incomes of thousands.“These people go in every 15 days to fetch the honey and earn around 30,000 – that’s an income for four months under danger of being wiped out,” said Ghosh.To better fight future climate disasters, he proffers a two-step plan: Mitigation (minimizing impact) and preparedness. “But we don’t even know what we need to prepare against, so I am not hopeful.”THE AFTERMATH Amphan unleashed a humanitarian tragedy of scale not seen in Bengal since 1867, and some of the worst-affected people across eight districts are poor, come from marginal castes and tribes and are older.In Bangaon near the India-Bangladesh border where the largest community comprises the Matuas, a scheduled-caste sect focusing on teachings of self-respect and education, the cyclone has shattered homes and livelihoods.“Many community members are engaged in flower picking, but the plantations are gone. Many are refugees so they have nowhere to turn to,” said Ameya Sarkar of the Matua Mahasangha.In Gosaba, Malati Mandal is struggling to feed her children because half her hut has been inundated, and she has lost her job as a domestic help in four homes in Kolkata. But her husband is hopeful that he will get employed by a contractor to remove trees and clear the roads.In East Midnapore’s Kanthi, Bablu – who agreed to give only his first name – is certain he cannot rebuild his shop and will have to become a migrant worker After Aila clobbered south Bengal in 2009, too, tens of thousands of young men left their homes in search of work because their lands were too salty and their local economies too poor. ““The impact on the marginsalised sections will be felt for years,” said Jaydeep Sarangi, a Dalit writer and activist. A week has passed since Amphan but authorities are still scrambling to assess the damages. The state government estimates 200,000 people are still in relief camps, 450,000 electric poles uprooted and 150,000 km of electricity lines damaged.At least 160 km of river embankments and 4 km of sea dykes are ruined, and nearly 6000 km of roads have been washed away. The death toll stands at 72 – a figure attributed to the evacuation of 850,000 people to relief camps before the storm.But even for those who have survived, the horrors are unfolding.Chandan Patra, a worker at a leather factory near Kolkata, was staying at the unit during the lockdown but a day before the cyclone, decided to go visit his village of Mohanpur, in the north 24 parganas.But the squall and rising waters damaged the road leading to his village, so he was forced to stop and go back. The next day, panicked calls from his family told him that all 15 embankments protecting the village had been breached, and their home marooned.Over the next seven days, locals were able to repair five of them, but the water level is still somewhere near waist level, and Patra’s ageing parents and ailing sister are stuck in the house.“Our family is perched on the bed, and is cooking rice in the room with the water swishing about. We haven’t received relief, and salt water has entered the tubewell,” he said, appealing for support from the army, bulldozers and mechanized pumps to expel the sheets of water that has cut off the village from the road.“I am safe, but I don’t know how long they will be able to survive,” he said. “Please help us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-a-trail-of-death-misery-and-destruction/story-Y5DVaWIW63ZBhSiA1QVFUJ.html
28-05-2020||India||Locust swarms likely headed to MP from Rajasthan||New Delhi: Locust swarms were likely to move from Rajasthan’s Dausa to Dholpur and Morena in Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday and damage all kinds of vegetation and not only standing crop, the Locust Warning Organisation (LWO) said while calling a reported alert that they were headed towards Delhi incorrect.Small swarms of the species of grasshoppers have also reached as far as Vidarbha, other parts of Maharashtra as well as Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. “The alert that they are headed towards Delhi on Wednesday is incorrect. They are headed towards Morena for now,” said LWO’s directorate of plant protection quarantine & storage deputy director, KL Gurjar.LWO has deployed drones and 50 teams to track the swarms in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. Fire brigades are also being deployed depending on the size and location of the swarms. “We have controlled them over 47,000 ha of land in Rajasthan, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. The swarms, which have reached Maharashtra, are very small. Thankfully, we did not have any standing crop there but they can destroy all kinds of vegetation,” said Gurjar. The teams are spraying organophosphate insecticides, malathion 96 and chlorpyrifos, depending on the location. Gurjar said they will control the swarms before they start breeding during the monsoon next month and ensure there is no second wave.LWO said wind patterns have pushed the main branch of the voracious desert locust towards Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra from Rajasthan and threaten crops like cotton, pulses and maize, ahead of a crucial rice-planting season. “Current winds patterns will propel the pests towards newer parts of Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, sparing Delhi for now,” an official of the top locust monitoring wing of the agriculture ministry said. “For the next two days, moderate winds could blow them into parts of eastern Madhya Pradesh and Vidharbha of Maharashtra, as winds are northwesterly,” Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology, of Skymet, a private forecaster, said. Delhi could be spared for another four days. Winds after two days will take the opposite direction from what they are now, travelling from Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh towards Rajasthan, Palawat said. A cyclonic formation over Rajasthan thereafter may change winds patterns towards Delhi, he said. Locusts can fly up to 150 km daily and a one square km swarm can eat as much food as 35,000 people in a single day, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO)’s Desert Locust Information Service bulletin.Rajasthan is the worst-hit state by the swarms and they overran Jaipur on Monday. The Centre has released aid worth Rs 68.65 crore to compensate farmers there for last year’s pest attack. The compensation under the National Disaster Relief Fund was cleared for release by a high-level committee headed by Union home minister Amit Shah, according to a document dated May 23 reviewed by HT.The country continues to be on alert for crop-munching desert locusts, which according to a UN warning, pose a “severe” risk to the country’s agriculture this year. There has been an early-than-usual summer invasion of the species of grasshoppers from across Pakistan.This has prompted the Union agriculture ministry to consider importing equipment from the UK, apart from deploying drones, satellite-derived tools, special fire-tenders and sprayers at pre-identified border locations.A briefing of FAO states that the current situation remains extremely alarming in East Africa. “At this time, there is a risk that swarms will migrate to the summer breeding areas along both sides of the Indo-Pakistan border as well as to Sudan and perhaps West Africa.”A surge in locust attacks since last year is also being attributed to favourable breeding weather caused by a large number of cyclones in East Africa. India, China and Pakistan face the most risk in Asia, according to the UN. Pakistan has already declared an agricultural emergency.LWO on May 15 warned locust swarms were expected to arrive in India from spring breeding areas and said it will continue to be vigilant over their possible invasion.Experts said excess rains in the pre-monsoon season in north India also provided greener pastures for the locusts to thrive earlier than normal this year. The deadly locust invasion in Africa, Middle East and South Asia has been linked to freak weather associated with climate crisis. “Heavy rain triggers the growth of vegetation in arid areas where desert locusts can then grow and breed. These locusts which migrated to India early this year might have found greener pastures as the pre-monsoon rains during March-May were in excess over north India this year,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, a climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology. K K Singh, a senior scientist at India Meteorological Department, said there is not a direct link. “We cannot say that because we had excess pre-monsoon rains and greenery in the northwest and central India so locusts have invaded us. There are many other factors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/locust-swarms-likely-headed-to-mp-from-rajasthan/story-Oa4OeAi8u2GC7OK0GCY5bK.html
28-05-2020||India||Central govt issues notification to bring PM CARES under CSR activity||The government has issued a notification with retrospective effect enabling the treatment of contributions made by companies to the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) Fund, formed in the aftermath of the coronavirus disease pandemic, as corporate social responsibility (CSR) spending. Requests by some states, including West Bengal, to allow contributions made to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to be treated as CSR expenditure were declined, two officials aware of the matter said on condition of anonymity.  “It is because this will restrict the use of the bulk of CSR funds in only 6-7 industrialised states where most of the companies are located,” one of the officials said.Also Read: Rahul Gandhi reiterates demand for audit of PM-Cares fundThe notification to include PM CARES in Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013, related to CSR, along with the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund, was issued on Tuesday. “This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on 28th March 2020,” it said. HT has seen a copy of the notification. PM CARES Fund was set up on March 27 to deal with the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. It announced its first allotment of Rs 3,100 crore on May 13 for ventilators, the welfare of migrant workers, and supporting a programme to develop a vaccine against Covid-19.The official quoted above cited past instances wherein two industrial states--one in the north and another in south India--had tried to “arm-twist” companies located in their regions to spend their entire CSR money locally. “Such tendencies need to be curbed for equitable distribution of CSR funds across the country.”Also Read: Indian Covid-19 vaccine development to be backed by PM-CARES FundHT on April 17 reported that West Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra wrote to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman urging the Centre to include the CM’s Relief Fund in Schedule VII of the Companies Act.The Companies Act requires firms with a net worth of Rs 500 crore or more, or turnover of Rs 1,000 crore or more, or net profit of Rs 5 crore or more in the immediately preceding financial year, to mandatorily spend 2% of average net profit of the preceding three years on CSR. Money earmarked for spending on CSR activities is about Rs 15,000 crore a year. According to an industry estimate, about Rs 50,000 crore has been spent on CSR since 2014-15 and around Rs 30,000 crore remains unspent.A company’s board is empowered to plan, decide, execute, and monitor the activities under CSR on the recommendations of a committee. The government has specified broad areas of spending in Schedule VII. Approved activities under CSR include eradicating extreme hunger, poverty, promotion of education, promoting gender equality and women’s empowerment as well as reducing the child mortality, improving maternal health and combating diseases. Ensuring environmental sustainability and prompting employment enhancing vocational skills are other activities approved under CSR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-govt-issues-notification-to-bring-pm-cares-under-csr-activity/story-0lIkSNsZH5fgNpXphD6mxJ.html
28-05-2020||India||Women fighter pilots could get longer stints: IAF chief||What began as a five-year experiment to allow women to fly fighter jets in the Indian Air Force could now see them serve longer in the demanding role, with the IAF set to review the previous decision, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria said on Wednesday.The IAF chief, in an interview, spoke in detail about the ongoing reforms in the defence sector, budget cuts likely to be triggered by the impact of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic on the economy , the role of the locally-made light combat aircraft (LCA) in the air force’s modernisation and the theaterisation of the Indian military.Also Read: In Supreme Court verdict, 11 occasions army’s women officers distinguished themselvesNine women have been commissioned as fighter pilots after the experimental scheme for their induction into the combat stream was introduced in 2015, a watershed in the air force’s history.“As far as the performance of women fighter pilots is concerned, the IAF is satisfied with their progress and we intend to extend this option (beyond five years). The response and performance of women who have joined the fighter stream has been very good,” Bhadauria said.Currently, there are a total of 111 women pilots serving in the IAF, including those who fly transport planes and choppers.The IAF chief spoke about his expectations from the reforms announced by the government in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ --- especially raising the foreign direct investment (FDI) limit in the manufacture of defence equipment to 74%.Also Read: Role of women officers in Indian armed forces | HT Explainer“Raising the FDI limit from 49% to 74% is a huge step as it will pull more foreign investment into the industry. It will also bring in technical know how and incentivise transfer of technology for foreign manufacturers,” Bhadauria said.He said the measures for the defence sector would provide a fillip especially in areas such as fighter/transport aircraft manufacturing and aero engine design.Asked to comment on the likely cut in the military’s budget because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the IAF chief said the air force was working on reducing expenditure through various steps aimed at rationalising and re-prioritising its procurement plans.“All international and large-scale domestic exercises have been cancelled. Further, cost-cutting measures in revenue and reorienting our procurements is also being done. We will carefully calibrate the available resources to ensure current combat capabilities are not affected,” Bhadauria said.The IAF chief, who operationalised the second LCA squadron at Sulur on Wednesday, said the LCA programme was vital to the air force’s future plans and would form the core of its fighter fleet in the coming decades. The IAF has so far ordered 40 LCAs split in the initial operational clearance (IOC) version and the more advanced and final operational clearance (FOC) configuration.Bhadauria said the IAF was looking forward to signing the contract for 83 LCA Mk-IA jets soon. In March, the defence ministry approved the purchase of the 83 fighters from Hindustan Aeronautics Limited with the deal expected to be worth Rs 38,000 crore.Asked to comment on the theaterisation of the Indian armed forces, Bhadauria said, “Success in any future operational scenarios hinges on joint operational planning, training and integrated application of forces...The IAF along with the army and navy will do what is necessary to achieve this. The Air Defence command study, headed by the IAF vice chief, is shaping up well in terms of contours and broad structure.”An Air Defence command will include air defence resources of all the three services.Theaterisation refers to placing specific units of the army, the navy and the air force under a Theatre Commander. Such commands will come under the operational control of an officer from any of the three services, depending on the function assigned to that command. Experts believe that theatres are key to the way battles will be fought in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/women-fighter-pilots-could-get-longer-stints-iaf-chief/story-EnTPUpfWl7eflSNTImnoXN.html
28-05-2020||India||Heatwave continues to scorch Delhi for 5th day||Delhi recorded heat wave conditions in all or some of its stations for the fifth consecutive day on Wednesday according to India Meteorological Department, with Palam recording a maximum temperature of 47.2 degree C, six degrees above normal and in severe heat wave category; Safdarjung, 45.9 degree C, six degrees above normal; and Ayanagar, 46.7 degree C.Several other parts of northwest India also continued to record severe heat wave conditions on Wednesday. Maximum temperatures are likely to drop by 1 to 2 degrees on Thursday. “On May 29 and 30 we can expect easterly winds of about 50 to 60 kmph. There may be thunderstorms and dust storms also. There will be dry, hot northwesterly winds blowing over the region till then. Since they are blowing mainly over land region, they are hot. We can expect normal temperatures till June 3 after which temperatures will pick up again,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, Delhi.Under the influence of a western disturbance and an east-west trough in lower levels and likely occurrence of rain or thunderstorm from May 28 to 30, maximum temperatures over plains of north India are likely to recede from May 28 onwards with substantial reduction of heat wave conditions from May 29 . Under favourable wind conditions over parts of central India, heat wave conditions are also likely to reduce from these areas from May 29, IMD said in its bulletin.Due to enhanced cloud cover and deepening of southwesterly winds up to mid tropospheric levels, the southwest monsoon has further advanced into some more parts of south Bay of Bengal, most parts of Andaman Sea and Andaman and Nicobar Islands on Wednesday. Conditions are becoming favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon into some parts of Maldives-Comorin area and adjoining southeast Arabian Sea, remaining parts of Andaman Sea and some more parts of south and central Bay of Bengal during next 48 hours, IMD said on Wednesday. Monsoon is likely to make onset over Kerala on June 5, four days late compared to its normal onset date of June 1.Due to strong southerly winds from Bay of Bengal to northeast India at lower tropospheric levels, heavy to very heavy rainfall with extremely heavy falls are likely over Meghalaya, Tripura and Mizoram during next two days. Heavy rainfall at some places over parts of south peninsular India is also likely from May 27 to 30.The Central Water Commission (CWC) has issued a severe flood situation alert for the Brahmaputra in Assam’s Neamati Ghat and Jiabharali in Jorhat and Sonitpur districts on Wednesday. Cherrapunji and Mawsynram in Meghalaya received 129 to 136 cm rain over the past five days since May 22 , all in extremely heavy rainfall category, according to RK Jenamani, senior scientist at National Weather Forecasting Centre. When rainfall is more than 20.5 cm in a day it is categorised as extremely heavy rainfall by IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heatwave-continues-to-scorch-delhi-for-5th-day/story-g9ZaVPX1v5qRrTKIitORGJ.html
28-05-2020||India||Toddler tries to wake up dead mother at Bihar railway station||A toddler’s vain attempt to wake up his dead mother from eternal sleep on a railway platform in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur on Wednesday presented the most poignant picture of the massive migrant tragedy unfolding across several states.A video tweeted by Sanjay Yadav, an aide to RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav, shows the child walking unsteadily up to his mother’s body, tugging at the blanket placed over her, and when failing to wake her up, covering his own head with it.As the mother still lay still, he wobbles away from her, announcements continuing in the background about the arrival and departure of trains that would bring in tens of thousands of people in a rush to get away from hunger and hardship they face in large cities that could sustain them no more. Also Watch | Migrant woman travelling to Bihar delivers baby in Shramik special train“This small child doesn’t know that the bedsheet with which he is playing is the shroud of his mother who has gone into eternal sleep. This mother died of hunger and thirst after being on a train for four days. Who is responsible for these deaths on trains? Shouldn’t the opposition ask uncomfortable questions?” tweeted Yadav.Also read | Migrants’ kid dies as father hunts for milk at railway stationHowever, police had a different story to tell.Ramakant Upadhyay, the Dy SP of the Government Railway Police in Muzaffarpur, said the incident occurred on May 25 when the migrant woman was on way to Muzaffarpur from Ahmedabad by a Shramik Special train.He told reporters the woman, who was accompanied by her sister and brother-in-law, had died on the Madhubani bound train.“My sister-in-law died suddenly on the train. We did not face any problem getting food or water,” the officer said, quoting the deceased’s brother-in-law who he did not name.He said on getting information, poice brought down the body and sent it for postmortem.Citing the brother-in-law of the deceased, Upadhyay said she was aged 35 years and was undergoing treatment for “some disease” for the last one year in Ahmedabad. “She was also mentally unstable,” he said.When persistently queried about the cause of death, he said,”Only doctors can tell”.A massive exodus of migrant workers is on in several parts of the country, unprecedented in magnitude since Partition.The humanitarian crisis still unfolding on highways and railway platforms has shone light on disturbing tales of entire families walking hundreds of kilometres with little children on foot in a seemingly endless march to escape hunger.People have been found travelling on trucks and in the hollow of concrete mixing plants, and in many cases, dying from hunger and exhaustion before reaching their destinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toddler-tries-to-wake-up-dead-mother-at-bihar-railway-station/story-AjUSDiaTK3Is9kjTaiYGPN.html
28-05-2020||India||Piyush Goyal asks industry to start working for post-Covid period, says worst for economy is over||Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal on Wednesday asked the industry to start working for the post-Covid period with good ideas and firm implementation plans as worst for the economy is over and revival is in the air.He said this while meeting industry and trade association through video conference. It was the fifth such meeting since the lockdown to assess the impact of Covid-19 pandemic and take note of their suggestions to put the economy back on track.“...it would be better to be ready and start working for the post-Covid period, with good ideas, firm implementation plans, and to make India a world power,” he said.The minister said that “worst for the economy is over. Things are looking up, and revival is in the air”.Expressing concern, he also said that India is still import dependent on several routine items like furniture, toys, and sports shoes despite the fact that the country has technical prowess as well as skilled manpower.Goyal called upon the industry to make efforts in this regard, by thinking about sustainable, and out-of-the-box ideas.He assured the associations that their suggestions are duly examined, and timely action is taken on the rational, and genuine demands. Further, he said in the last three decades post-liberalisation, the country progressed but the focus was city-centric.“The rural and backward areas remained deprived, forcing millions of people from there to migrate to cities for employment and opportunities,” he added.The meeting was attended by representatives of various entities, including CII, FICCI, ASSOCHAM, NASSCOM, PHDCCI, CAIT, FISME, Laghu Udyog Bharati, SIAM, and ACMA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/piyush-goyal-asks-industry-to-start-working-for-post-covid-period-says-worst-for-economy-is-over/story-z4IuMQ9nw8q7bjUKBUJvpK.html
28-05-2020||India||Swarms of locusts enter Maharashtra||Mumbai: The skies over six blocks in three districts of Maharashtra darkened on Tuesday as a swarm of locusts entered the state almost 17 years after the last locust invasion. A swarm of desert locusts, which is a type of a species of short-horned grasshoppers, flew across Vidarbha’s Amravati, Wardha and Nagpur, and while major food crops are not under threat, as the sowing season is still a fortnight away, fruit orchards and vegetable farms are likely to be affected by the crop munching insects. They were spotted descending on orange orchards of Katol in Nagpur, as well as the neem trees in Morshi and Warud in Amravati.According to the state agriculture department the swarm is reported to be at least 10km long and 2km wide -- the insects are unique in the way that they change their behaviour from solitary to gregarious insects that forage for food together -- and the swarm has covered a distance of about 120 km in the past three days. ALSO WATCH | Crop-eating locusts wreak havoc in Rajasthan & MP“The invasion began from Katol (in Nagpur) on Monday morning. While major crop damage is not expected since we are close to monsoon and sowing in these areas begins by June 7, orange orchards are threatened by this invasion. A 25% loss is being estimated as of now for those owing these orchards,” said Ravindra Bhosale, divisional joint director agriculture, Nagpur division. As the swarm moves further south into the rural areas of Nagpur like Kamleshwar, hectares of cabbage, ladyfinger, cauliflower, and kidney beans crops are under threat.“An escaping population of desert locusts made their way from Madhya Pradesh into Amravati district on May 24 due to the current wind direction and the presence of forest patches where they can grow and breed as well as citrus trees. Over 48 hours, they have covered to two more districts showing an unusual swarming behaviour,” said Dr KL Gurjar, deputy director and national coordinator on mitigating locust attacks, Locust Warning Organisation, adding that the last time Maharashtra witnessed such an invasion was in 1993, in Dhule. Subhash Nagade, divisional joint director agriculture, Amravati division said the locust swarm has only exacerbated villagers’ woes who are already dealing with Covid-19 cases and the extremely hot weather.However, the government has been tackling the issue. While the locusts themselves pose no harm to humans, they can only be killed using chemicals. District officials, with the help of the fire department carried out hours-long drives of spraying pesticides across affected areas in all three districts in the intervening night between Monday and Tuesday. “We learnt that the swarms were asleep on the citrus trees. The villagers were able to pin point the exact locations, and an overnight extermination drive saw thousands of dead insects across a 17-km stretch at Katol. However, on Tuesday morning, those that survived began swarming to other talukas,” said Bhosale.“We expect the invasion to be controlled within a few days in Maharashtra. However, another escaping population from MP cannot be ruled out,” Gurjar said, adding that the wind direction was the reason behind such a possibility.Gurjar also said that efforts were on to control locust in Jaipur, Dausa and Karauli regions in Rajasthan and added that all state governments have been given instructions on how to control the fast migrating pest.The country is witnessing a severe locust outbreak active across Rajasthan, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, and now Maharashtra. These rapidly reproducing crop munching pests can fly up to 150km in a day. Central and state bodies have stepped up efforts to control the menace as it poses crop vulnerability and threat to food safety if the outbreak is not contained.Experts said the outbreak started due to heavy rain over east Africa and Arabian Peninsula due to warm waters in the western Indian Ocean in late 2019 with the swarm originating in the Horn of Africa, and entered India after breeding in Baluchistan, Iran and Pakistan.“These warm waters were caused by the phenomenon called the Indian Ocean Dipole—with warmer than usual waters to its west, and cooler waters to its east. Rising temperatures due to global warming amplified the dipole and made the western Indian Ocean particularly warm,” said Dr Roxy Mathew Koll, Senior Scientist, Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, adding that the locusts migrating to India may have found greener pastures due to above normal pre-monsoon rains during March–May for north and central India, including the Vidarbha region. “Heavy rain triggers the growth of vegetation in arid areas where desert locusts can then grow and breed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swarms-of-locusts-enter-maharashtra/story-vo5yIsp9UUo3OL6GqX5d7N.html
28-05-2020||Editorials||The end of autonomy for Hong Kong | HT Editorial||China seems to have begun consolidating its territorial claims on its periphery and the first victim will be an autonomous Hong Kong. The mainland’s National People’s Congress has passed a new sweeping security law that will criminalise most forms of political dissent, undermine other individual freedoms and put a tight lid on foreigner activity in the city-state. The rubber-stamp Hong Kong authority has signalled its intention to pass the law, effectively ending the “one country, two systems” principle that was the basis of the handover of the British colony. The United States (US) Secretary of State Mike Pompeo quickly warned these actions meant Hong Kong no longer enjoyed autonomy from China, clearing the path for Washington to revoke the special economic status the city-state enjoys with the US. The US is likely to roll back elements of this status, encompassing visas, tariffs and financial regulations, lock step with the regression of Hong Kong’s rights. With reports of capital flight and financial firms already seeking alternative homes, the future of Hong Kong as an international financial centre looks bleak. This will make US-China relations, already fragile, even worse. Beijing has also accompanied this by officially dropping the first word in its traditional espousal of “peaceful reunification” with Taiwan. India should watch China’s aggression closely, for it could directly impinge on its own security interests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-end-of-autonomy-for-hong-kong/story-DcVNSktnCfyOqozjjTKBAN.html
28-05-2020||Editorials||Speaking for migrant workers | HT Editorial||The Supreme Court (SC) has finally spoken on the “problems and miseries of migrant workers”. On Thursday, after extensively hearing the government (represented by solicitor general Tushar Mehta), a set of states, and others representing migrant workers and organisations, the court ordered that migrant workers must not be charged any fare for train or bus journeys; be provided with food while returning home in trains and buses; be provided transport as early as possible after they have registered with the states; and taken to the nearest shelter and provided food and other amenities if found on the road, stranded and walking. It has also asked the Centre to provide details on the number of migrants waiting to return home, the plans for transportation, and mechanisms for registration.The plight of migrant workers, and their exodus back to their villages, represents one of the most serious humanitarian crises independent India has ever faced. The lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic left poor migrant workers without any income and food. Governments across the board fared poorly in providing an adequate security net or anticipating their desire to return home. Tens of thousands of workers began walking home, across the breadth of the country. Thirty-six days after the lockdown, the government decided on allowing their movement. The solicitor general’s figures suggest close to 10 million workers have got back home — but this has been a process marked by suffering and chaos. Migrants have had to wait for long before getting their turn; trains have gone off schedule or off course; millions of others remain stranded: many are still walking home. The human tragedy is enormous, exemplified by an image of a toddler trying to wake his mother, who died allegedly due to hunger, heat and dehydration (although some reports say she was already unwell), at a train station in Bihar.This newspaper has been critical of the SC’s earlier reluctance to take up the issue of migrant workers. But belated as it may be, its intervention is positive. What was disturbing was Mr Mehta’s assertion that a few isolated incidents were being exaggerated by “prophets of doom” and workers were being instigated to walk home. Media reports and civil society interventions played a key part in exposing the scale of the crisis. His comment is also insulting to the agency of migrant workers. The government has, over the past month, made efforts to enable smooth movement. It must, along with states, abide by the SC’s directives and improve processes to get citizens back home. The SC should keep a strict eye on the executive to ensure a humane approach to the crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/speaking-for-migrant-workers-ht-editorial/story-ZIlkoqsoWMEdJulFfMvZlN.html
