31-05-2020||News||Modi 2.0: Dark clouds have engulfed the nation, writes Sitaram Yechury||Surreal is, perhaps, the only way to describe marking of the first anniversary of the Modi 2.0 government. As the government data detailing the pre-coronavirus disease destruction of the economy and the consequent ruination of crores of lives during the last year was being released, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi was writing to all of us describing the year as “a golden chapter in the history of Indian democracy”. This ruination has been aggravated by the coronavirus pandemic and the unplanned and abrupt unilateral lockdown announced by the PM. This lockdown has neither strengthened the efforts to combat the pandemic nor has it provided any relief to beleaguered citizens. The situation continues to worsen.India appears to have entered a post-truth society. The Oxford Dictionary defines post-truth as “relating to or denoting circumstances in which objective facts are less influential in shaping public opinion than appeals to emotion and personal belief”. The propaganda and spin machine of the government projects a surreal world divorced from the truth.The first year of this government has been traumatic. Apart from all other issues such as the economic downturn, increase in people’s miseries, assaults on democratic rights and civil liberties, this year has been traumatic for the single-minded focus with which this government began to systematically undermine India’s secular, democratic, republican order.Among the attacks — the delivery of a verdict and not justice in the Ram temple site dispute in Ayodhya, the triple talaq criminalisation of only Muslim men, not other’ for deserting their wives — are two that spring to mind immediately. Modi 2.0 began with an immediate assault on the Constitution with the abrogation of Article 370. In one stroke, the state of Jammu and Kashmir became a part of history and was bifurcated into Union territories. The promises made during the freedom movement and the Constitution have been betrayed. The manner in which this was done was an affront to the constitutional scheme of things. By dissolving the elected assembly and not holding the elections along with the 2019 general elections, this government deliberately bypassed the constitutional stipulation that the border of any state in India cannot be altered without the concurrence of the assembly. As the assembly was non-existent, the governor appointed by the Centre was presumed to be the substitute, whose consent was naturally obtained. The entire exercise was done surreptitiously.Then came the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), a brazen violation of the Constitution in stipulating religion as a criterion for citizenship. The Constitution underlines the equality of every citizen, irrespective of caste, creed, gender or any other attribute. The corollary to CAA was the National Population Register on whose basis the National Register of Citizens would be prepared. This exercise was rightly seen by many as the intensification of communal polarisation that feeds into the larger construct of targeting the Muslim minority. These two, along with many other assaults, are part of the effort to transform a secular, democratic, republican India into an intolerant theocratic, exclusivist fascistic state, which is the project of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the ideological mentor of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Citizenship is the fundamental requirement for every other right provided by the Constitution. Once people are stripped of their citizenship, they stand automatically stripped of all their rights and liberties in India.These assaults on the Constitution were accompanied by the weakening of the constitutional institutions. Both these issues were challenged in the Supreme Court (SC) and continues to remain there without being heard, considered or adjudicated on. The SC has chosen to consider matters such as anticipatory bail to journalists charged with aiding campaigns of hate as being more important than the defence of the Constitution. From the deepest recesses of my memory come surging images of courts during South Africa’s apartheid regime where criminals were acquitted, and the victims prosecuted. Retired SC Justice Gopala Gowda recently commented that the draconian experience of the infamous ADM Jabalpur case in which anyone considered a political threat to authorities could be taken into custody without trial, during the Emergency, is now passé.The four foundational pillars of the Constitution — secular democracy; social justice; federalism; and economic self-reliance — are taking a severe beating. Sharpening communal polarisation and the undermining of secularism are accompanied by attacks on any expression of dissent. Draconian laws such as the Sedition Act, the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the National Security Act are used. The stigma of social oppression has worsened.There is increasing centralisation of all authority by the central government bypassing elected state governments, negating federalism. A unitary State is required not only to centralise authority to facilitate the realisation of the RSS project but also to create a surveillance-based “security State”.The grandiose announcement of ~20 lakh crore financial package in the name of self-reliance is nothing but a blueprint for India’s self-subservience. It provides profit maximisation for foreign and domestic corporates. The net result will be the further widening of economic inequalities which have already reached alarming levels.Such are the dark clouds that have engulfed the Indian Republic during the last year. The silver lining must be enlarged by all of us together to overshadow and consume these dark clouds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/modi-2-0-dark-clouds-have-engulfed-the-nation/story-0jH93FzLACaHfRrhirYHEJ.html
31-05-2020||News||How Covid-19 invisibilises concerns of women, girls||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic has cut across all sections of society, but while we are all facing the same storm, the boats we sail in are different. The hierarchies of class, caste and gender significantly determine the nature of challenges each of us face. In India, the pandemic has exacerbated existing inequities, including with regard to gender. Girls in India face a continuum of discrimination even before birth, with the risk of sex-selective abortions, through to childhood and manifesting even in adult life through a multitude of regressive social norms and practices. Women’s contribution to the economy is unrecognised.Women bear the silent and essential burden during crises as primary providers of care at home and in health care settings. For instance, over 900,000 accredited social health activist workers are at the forefront of the Covid-19 crisis management, working at great personal risk and minimal compensation.The pandemic holds the risk of further invisibilising women and girls and their concerns. So far, the government has extended support by providing Rs 1,500 over three months to nearly 200 million women holding Jan Dhan accounts, it has also promised to reimburse the cost of cylinders from April to June to beneficiaries of the Ujjwala scheme. However, there are issues of access to bank services as well as availability of cash that women, especially poor women, are facing at the moment. The halt of all economic activity has worsened growth prospects taking unemployment levels to unprecedented levels. This lack of jobs will further disadvantage women, over 90% of whom are employed in the informal sector. The female workforce participation rate in India is 23%, and is in danger of falling further due to the crisis. Besides endangering their own economic independence and the survival of their families, the lockdown has had the most impact on the health, both physical and mental, of women. With the lockdown now being eased, the government must categorise all services catering women’s reproductive health as “essential” and violence against women must be seen as a health care issue to prevent needless deaths and pain. Violence against women increases during most crises, including epidemics. The National Commission for Women has reported increases in violence against women in the last two months. The numbers that are reported are only an indication of the depth of this problem. Most cases of violence go unreported due to fear and shame created by dominant social norms. The culture of impunity ingrained in the patriarchal society stands to be further strengthened with the understaffed police force having to bear the responsibilities of enforcing lockdowns and ignoring issues of violence against women. The lockdown and economic stress act as a perfect storm for abuse of women. It is worsened by the grim reality of the digital divide between men and women, with males accounting for 67% of India’s online population. This means that even when those women who own a phone want to reach out to helplines, in many cases, they can’t as they are stuck at home under the control of family members. Proactive measures by the government such as awareness campaigns through local government bodies and NGOs and functional helplines are urgently needed to prevent the abuse of women. A much stronger gender lens needs to be built into the Covid-19 response so that we don’t lose hard won gains made in regard to women’s rights and well-being in education, health and empowerment. The inequality and high rates of violence experienced by women is a global pandemic and a national crisis. It has sadly been made worse by Covid-19 and the lockdown, and calls for attention both in our homes, and in the world outside.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-covid-19-invisibilises-concerns-of-women-girls/story-rRJMnaeAJ6SD0lLn8xBdkJ.html
31-05-2020||Mumbai||Maha CM Uddhav Thackeray advises caution as state relaxes more curbs||On a day his government granted a slew of relaxations in non-containment zones while extending the latest lockdown till June 30, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said people should tread cautiously while beginning the “new life”.In his televised address to the state, the CM said the “Mission Begin Again”, the nomenclature chose by the state government for the fifth phase of the lockdown which it extended till June 30, is aimed at restarting lives again.“The permission for outdoor physical activities, opening of shops and markets, offices is a trial to check on how we shouldmove forward, but we should tread cautiously.Lockdown should now be thrown into dustbin,” he said.He said if lockdown is science, lifting it is an art.Thackeray likened the “Mission begin again” to walking in heavy rains with people holding their hands and walking carefully.“But even as we begin afresh, we have to take cautious steps,” he said.Under “Mission Begin Again”, all markets, market areas and shops, except malls, will be allowed to open from June 5 on the odd-even basis in non-containment zones across Maharashtra.However, religious places, shopping malls, hotels and restaurants will continue to remain closed.Thackeray also said the prevailing situation is not conducive to allow holding of the final year university exams.“Aggregate Marks of semester exams will be taken and students will be given marks,” he said.“I held talks with vice chancellors.I may be the CM and they may be vice chancellors but we all are also parents.We cannot let our children suffer. Those students who feel they could have done better if they had appeared for the final year exams, they will be given a chance when the situation normalises,” he said.The state government is more keen to ensure that the academic year starts on time in June than re-opening schools.“Schools in rural areas where there isno pandemic spread can start whereas in cities online education can be given priority,” he said.The CM also said that doorstep distribution of newspapers will be allowed from June 7.Delivery of newspapers was banned in Mumbai and Pune.He further said the state government’s consistent focus since the last two months has been on curbing the pandemic.“Ramping up the number of laboratories and testing will be priority,” he said, adding that 28,000 of 65,000 COVID-19 patients in the state have recovered and discharged.Maharashtra’s COVID-19 case count as on May 31 stands at 67,655 with 2,286 deaths, mainly fuelled by Mumbai’s case count of 39,686 and 1,279 fatalities, which is the highest in the country.Thackeray listed health and education as the priority areas for his government, saying the Covid-19 pandemic has also taught positive lessons.Taking a swipe at the Opposition, the CM said he felt bad that attempts are being made to “malign” the image of the state.Referring to speculations about a survival threat to his tripartite government, Thackeray, who heads the Shiv Sena, said he wasn’t worried since people are backing the ruling dispensation.Meanwhile, he also appealed to fishermen to not venture into the Arabian sea following the Met department’s observation of a brewing cyclonic storm that could hit the coasts of Maharashtra and Gujarat by June 3.“People on the west coast should remain alert.Administration is fully geared up to tackle any eventuality,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-cm-uddhav-thackeray-advises-caution-as-state-relaxes-more-curbs/story-pZ8Cg6d2HRtCusMLUgki3O.html
31-05-2020||Delhi||DMA writes to Delhi govt to issue protocols and appoint nodal officer for better coordination||The Delhi Medical Association (DMA) has written to the Delhi government demanding the appointment of a nodal officer, and standard protocols to ensure coordination between the government and the 117 private nursing homes and hospitals that were roped in to treat Covid-19 patients.The government had last week ordered these institutes with a minimum bed capacity of 50 to reserve 20% of beds for Covid-19 patients and 70 had complied, according to an official. In the letter to Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on May 26, DMA’s Nursing Homes and Medical Establishment Forum (NH and MEF) wing wrote that serious Covid-19 cases admitted in nursing homes will need to be treated in tertiary care centres.Dr. Ajay Bedi, honorary secretary of DMA’s NH and MEF wing, said, “In such a case, the patient needs to be shifted and for this there has to be a nodal officer whom we can call. This officer should be responsible for arranging the bed for the transfer to higher tertiary care facilities and transportation in case of death.”They also demanded that the doctors and paramedical staff at these facilities be covered under the state government’s insurance scheme for healthcare workers. The DMA highlighted the difficulty in segregating Covid and non-Covid patients, and also staff shortage in such institutions.“We are as it is functioning only with just over half our staff strength as the rest live far away and cannot report for duty without public transport. For Covid-19, we will have to keep dedicated staff as we will have to reserve 24 beds. We don’t know how we will manage it,” said the medical director of a 120-bedded hospital in West Delhi, requesting anonymity.Many of the designated Covid-19 hospitals in the private sector are on the brink of reaching capacity. The number of cases have been increasing in the city in the last few days, with over 1,000 new cases being reported for four days in a row on Sunday. The Association of Healthcare Providers (India) -- which has at least 10,000 member hospitals across the country -- had also raised concerns over several smaller medical institutions finding it difficult to conform to the strict guidelines issued in the matter by the Delhi government. “It is difficult for smaller hospitals to completely separate the Covid and non-Covid areas, have separate entrances or stringently implement the standard operating procedures by the health ministry to prevent the spread of the infection,” said Giridhar Gyani, director-general, Association of Healthcare Providers (India). “We suggest that the government could designate two or three hospitals entirely in each district to get the same number of beds.”Dr. PK Bhardwaj, secretary, Delhi Voluntary Hospital Forum, an association of major hospitals in the city, said: “Many hospitals that were constructed more than 10 years ago do not have planned isolation areas. This means that the air conditioning system and the gas pipeline is shared throughout the hospital. Now, this pipeline is also used for suction of fluids that go into a central repository, this can lead to further spread of the infection within the hospitals.”When contacted, a senior Delhi government official aware of the development said, “The government is working on protocols for these hospitals. It will have details about what kind of arrangements have to be made at these hospitals. We are making all the possible arrangements to ensure people don’t face any kind of difficulty.”On designating hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients, another senior government official said, “We would have preferred to designate full hospitals en-bloc to treat the rising cases, but hospitals did not come forward for that.”Dr. Jugal Kishore, head of the department community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital, said, “This is the time when all medical institutions should pitch-in. As far as appointing a nodal officer is concerned, the government should appoint area-wise nodal officers for better coordination between various hospitals. The number of ventilator-beds available should be accessible to all.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dma-writes-to-delhi-govt-to-issue-protocols-and-appoint-nodal-officer-for-better-coordination/story-lIIB5ibhkC0jsRV6rqnZ8M.html
31-05-2020||Mumbai||Air India pilots’ body claims crew harassed on Delhi-Moscow flight||Air India’s narrow-body pilot wing- Indian Commercial Pilots Association (ICPA) on Sunday wrote to its management complaining of harassment to its crew on Saturday saying they would not operate any other flights than the ones carrying essentials (cargo) if there’s a repeat of the same behaviour with the crew. On Saturday, a Delhi-Moscow flight had to return to Delhi after one of their cockpit crews was found positive Covid-19.The union stated that the crew on the Delhi-Moscow flight on May 30 had a “traumatic day” after one of the pilots tested positive for Covid-19, following which, the rest of the crew were made to wait the entire day without food or refreshments. However, Air India has refused to comment on the issue.ICPA alleged that health officials at Delhi airport failed to comply with government orders and the protocol to be followed before and after flight for Covid testing, for crew operating Vande Bharat Mission flights.The union also alleged that the crew were harassed by the health officials at the airport and were being forced to be taken to a government medical facility for seven days. ICPA said that it was only after the institutional quarantine facilities refused to accept the crew that they were allowed to go home to follow home-isolation for 14 days. The letter read, “...you will appreciate the fact that we are operating flights under Vande Bharat mission as “national duty” and the treatment meted to the operating crew is distasteful. We do not appreciate the treatment perpetrated to our crew and if history repeats itself, we will not be in a position to operate any flights other than the essential services.” The union also pointed out that the post-flight Covid-19 testing was not carried out and the crew were not accommodated in a hotel as per the protocol. The letter stated, “...It can be construed as a lack of coordination between Air India, ministry of home affairs (MHA), Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) and health officials at the airport.”The ICPA mentioned about the circular issued by the ministry of health and family welfare and DGCA circulars (dated 23 March 2020), that stated, “If a laboratory positive case of Covid-19 is found in a flight, the entire crew has to be de-rostered for minimum 14 days. The crew need to follow home-isolation during the time in their own country.” The pilot’s body sought clarification on the protocol to be followed by their colleagues when a positive case of Covid is found on a domestic flight and when a positive case is found on a flight for Vande Bharat mission. ICPA also asked to clarify the kind of flight operations that will qualify a set of crew, for the minimum 14 days home isolation after their de-rostering.Lastly, the pilot’s body also asked to clarify if the MHA standard operating procedure (SOP) laid down for movement of Indian nationals stranded outside the country requiring RT-PCR test for passengers, was being followed. 50 flights operated to and from Mumbai on SundayChhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) saw a total of 50 scheduled flights which include 25 departures and 25 arrivals on Sunday. CSMIA connected to 14 sectors which were operated by five airlines. CSMIA catered to a total of 5,535 passengers which include 4,203 passengers at departures and 1,332 at arrivals. The highest passenger load capacity was seen on the Patna route departing out of CSMIA. The first flight departed to Kolkata at 6:0am while the first flight arrived at 8:10am from Lucknow which was operated by SpiceJet and IndiGo, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/air-india-pilots-body-claims-crew-harassed-on-delhi-moscow-flight/story-fLDVbf1NkKLrCFtdQX18wO.html
31-05-2020||Delhi||No respite for poor students with no smartphones, Internet||Malkeet Singh’s 12-year-old son, a Class 6 student at a private school in west Delhi, is worried ever since his school switched to online lessons and tests following the Covid-19 lockdown. As no one in his family owned a smartphone, he was unable to appear for the seven tests conducted by his school recently.“We had repeatedly conveyed our problem to the class teacher and the school but to no avail,” said Singh, a contractual driver who lost his job during the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19. Singh’s children are among the several hundred students admitted under the Economically Weaker Section quota in the 1,700 private schools in the capital every year and are entitled to free education. Parents with an annual income of less than ₹1 lakh can seek admission under the EWS quota.However, the switch from classroom teaching to online education has left them in the lurch.Earlier this month, Hindustan Times had reported that students enrolled in private schools under the Economically Weaker Section quota are struggling to attend online classes due to the lack of devices and high-speed Internet and have been unable to take their exams as well. A plea in this regard was also filed in the Delhi High Court by the NGO Justice For All which contended that over 50,000 such students would be affected by the decision of private schools to conduct online education.“Schools can make temporary provisions for students who are not able to access online education. Instead, they have been ignoring these children who are unable to catch up due to lack of access to devices or the Internet. An alternative mechanism should be arranged for such students so that their academic year is not under threat,” said advocate Shikha Sharma, secretary of Justice for All.Despite the Delhi government’s submission in the ongoing case—which said that under the Right to Education Act, schools should provide equipment if such children were unable to access online education—little has changed on the ground.Laxman, a resident of Nangloi who works as a carpenter, said that his family had no means of getting a smartphone with his meagre means. The family is currently struggling to ensure that their son finishes his holiday homework on time.“My son, who studies in Class 3, had his tests earlier this month. Since we have no high-end smartphone or computer, we had to borrow phones from our relatives or neighbours and all his submissions were delayed. While formulating plans of how to conduct studies during this pandemic, schools and authorities should think of alternative measures for families like ours as well,” he said.Families with multiple children also had their own share of struggles. “There is just one phone in the house and I have three children. They have all received tons of homework and we don’t know how to help them all. There are constant fights between them to attend classes,” Rakesh Thakur, a Kalyanpuri resident, whose children study in classes 5, 3, and 2, said.SK Bhattacharya, the president of Action Committee of Unaided Recognized Private Schools, said it wasn’t practically feasible for private schools to bear the additional burden of providing smartphones and laptops to children and wait for the reimbursement from the Centre.“We haven’t received any written complaint from EWS students on the matter so far. I don’t think there is anyone in Delhi who does not own a smartphone. Besides, they should also look at what is happening in government schools. Why this targeting of private schools? If they are so sympathetic to the cause, they should distribute laptops among all such students,” he said.“Government schools are conducting online classes for classes 9 to 12, which is outside the ambit of the Right to Education Act. Private schools are conducting online classes for everyone, including junior-level classes up to Class 8. The RTE Act clearly mandates that the educational material has to be provided by schools. So while during regular teaching, the books and materials were provided by private schools, the necessities of online education should also be provided by them,” a senior official from the Directorate of Education said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/no-respite-for-poor-students-with-no-smartphones-internet/story-TBTwKW5X2GN5elhceReGSK.html
31-05-2020||Mumbai||Schools in rural, remote areas can open others can begin online classes: CM||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday directed the education department to begin the academic year from June by opening schools physically in remote and rural areas and virtually in the rest of the state.The schools in rural and remote areas will function with maintaining social distancing norms while in others the government hopes to start online education.The school education department is preparing a standard operation procedure (SOP) for the new academic year, tapping all possibilities of offline and online education through pre-loaded tablets, TV and radio channels, among others. Thackeray held a video conference with education ministers, officials, experts from the field and legislators representing teachers on Sunday, to discuss the options to begin the academic year. The CM said that the academic year should not be wasted and the state should lead the way by setting an example of tiding over the difficulties arising out of the pandemic. The CM was also told that online education could hit a hurdle as only 3.3% of the total 2.30 crore households have computers. However, 70% of households have TV sets, which can be used as a medium of instruction. This is one of the options that the government is keen to tap.“The education department also expressed fear of girls dropping out due to the rising unemployment and the cut in the spending capacity of households. In such a scenario, opening schools is important,” said an official from the education department. “Some of the private schools have already started their academic year online. The problem lies for students in rural areas, where online platforms do not work. Thus, we have decided to open the schools in remote and rural areas. We will have another meeting in the next three-four days to decide the modalities on opening the schools,” said Omprakash Babarao Kadu, minister of state, school education.School education minister Varsha Gaikwad said that her department is preparing a statement of purpose (SOP) for the new academic year in consultation with experts from the education sector. Vandana Krishna, additional chief secretary of the department, said that Google has offered to provide their Classroom platform free of cost. However, principals said that the government should wait at least till July to reopen schools. “It seems like a hasty decision to start schools in June irrespective of the zones that they are in. Even in green zones, the risk still remains as opening borders has facilitated free travel of people across regions. Children should not be put at risk just because we want to start schools,” said Prashant Redij, principal, Hilda Castelino High School in Kandivli. “While online learning in places like Mumbai can carry on, we don’t know how many students will be able to access it considering the availability of devices,” he added. Ghanshyam Sonar, convenor, All India RTE Forum, said that the penetration of internet is low in the state, a factor that needs to be looked at before proposing online education. “Most students in the state do not have access to technology and even when they do, internet connectivity is an issue. Teaching has to focus on the learning outcome of students. Merely one-directional videos cannot be called teaching,” said Sonar. As per the data obtained by the state education department , only about 27% households have smartphone or electronic devices. Kapil Patil, member of legislative Council from teachers constituency, attended the meeting. He said that Thackeray has assured to withdraw all teachers engaged in non-teaching activities. “Of the 5.5 lakh teachers employed in government and aided schools, nearly 10% are engaged in non-teaching activities. The CM said that the government is coming out with a strict notification banning authorities from engaging teachers in non-teaching activities. This will help state in availing more teachers imparting education, online or offline,” he said.Parents said that they would not prefer sending their children even if schools start from June. “Most parents will not send their children to school for the next few months irrespective of the situation because there is a lot of fear. Especially in cities like Mumbai and Pune, no attempt should be made to start schools because the turnout would anyway be low,” said Alka Gade, a city-based parent. On May 11, HT reported a survey conducted by ParentCircle, an online forum, which stated 54% parents from the city have said that they would not send their children to school at least for a month after they reopen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/schools-in-rural-remote-areas-can-open-others-can-begin-online-classes-cm/story-bKAY5qkab5lJ2dXReXS1wK.html
31-05-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow markets to have control rooms to monitor crowd, enforce social distancing||Lucknow administration on Sunday said all markets in the city will have a control room, manned by some local traders’ association members besides some policemen and municipal officials to monitor and enforce social distancing and other anti-Covid precautionary measures there.If required, CCTVs and public address system too should be installed in markets for better monitoring and enforcement of the precautionary measures, said District Magistrate Abhishek Prakash.In a statement issued here by the Lucknow district administration, he also said the monitoring mechanism has been developed, it would comprise policemen and district administration officials besides some office bearers of local traders’ associations.Prakash added that norms of social distancing should be strictly adhered to and Covid-19 protocol must be followed.Arrangements of sanitisers and masks too should be made, he said, adding for real time monitoring, CCTVs too should be installed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-markets-to-have-control-rooms-to-monitor-crowd-enforce-social-distancing/story-Z16sU1sklhe4L1dVTvvO8J.html
31-05-2020||Delhi||Architect who designed Dilli Haat, Garden of Five Senses, dead||Pradeep Sachdeva, the architect of Dilli Haat at INA market, the Garden of Five Senses near Saket and several iconic buildings and inclusive public spaces, passed away on Sunday morning. He was 62. He was involved in several projects related to riverfront development, public spaces, buildings across India.Remembering his contribution to Delhi’s landscape, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia tweeted, “The spaces he created have become architectural landmarks for our city brought alive by his imaginative design. RIP.”According to Sachdeva’s friends, he wasn’t keeping well for the past few months and was admitted to a hospital recently for treatment. He is survived by his wife, son and daughter.AGK Menon, his friend and noted urban designer, remembered him as an innovative, humanistic designer who focused on “indigenous quality of design” in his work.“He tried to use the local construction techniques, indigenous designs in his work to create something extraordinary. This you will find in most of his work,” Menon said.Dilli Haat, Menon said, is one of his most important works. “It is an inclusive public space, which has been designed over a Nullah. The place is contemporary yet traditional,” said Menon.For the past few years, he was working on the Delhi government’s ambitious Chandni Chowk redevelopment project, work on which started in December 2018 after much delay.The project was close to him as it involved pedestrianisation of one of Delhi’s most congested markets without disturbing its heritage. The biggest challenge in the project was to get all the stakeholders to agree to the design.Nitin Panigrahi, deputy general manager of Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation (SRDC), tweeted, “PradeepSachdeva ji shall be remembered for his passion for inclusive urbanism & architectural heritage revitalisation Redevelopment Project of #ChandniChowk may inspire policy makers to recognise his impetus to make public streets inclusive for all #pedestrian or #cyclist alike and urban designer renowned.”He was also the main consultant for the Jama Masjid Precinct redevelopment project, work on which is yet to start.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/architect-who-designed-dilli-haat-garden-of-five-senses-dead/story-XTnEJMgp4Nmor4NnX8lGyI.html
31-05-2020||Delhi||Firing at Republican Party of India leader’s farmhouse, guard injured||An unidentified man on Sunday shot at a 50-year-old security guard deployed at the farmhouse of a leader of the Republican Party of India’s (RPI) in outer Delhi’s Nihal Vihar, police said. The security guard suffered bullet injuries on his leg, they said adding that a case has been registered in the matter. According to the police, the suspect first approached the guard, Hari Nath, asking him about the whereabouts of the RPI leader Mohammad Shakeel Saifi. When the guard asked the suspect to contact his employer on his mobile phone, the suspect fired two rounds at him.Deputy commissioner of police (Outer) A Koan said that Nath suffered bullet injuries in his legs and was shifted to Balaji Action Hospital. “A case of attempt to murder with sections 25/27 of the arms act has been registered at the Nihal Vihar police station and the investigation is on ion the matter,” the DCP added.A police officer associated with the investigation, on the condition of anonymity, said that Saifi—the national president of the minority cell of RPI— was at his farmhouse with his family when the firing took place around 9 am. RPI is led by Ramdas Athawale, the Union minister of state for social justice and empowerment.Saifi was not available for a comment as multiple calls and text messages sent on his cellphone remained unanswered.The officer said the injured security guard told the police that he was on duty alone when someone knocked at the farmhouse’s main gate. The guard opened the gate to find a man wearing a mask. “The man asked the guard about Saifi. Nath responded asking him to call Saifi if he wanted to meet him. At this, the man pulled out a pistol and fired two shots. The attacker fled as Nath screamed for help,” the officer said.The police said they were informed about the incident around 9.15 am following which a team rushed to the spot immediately. “The CCTV camera installed near the crime scene at Saifi’s farmhouse was defunct. We are scanning CCTV cameras in the neighbourhood to ascertain the suspect’s identity,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/firing-at-republican-party-of-india-leader-s-farmhouse-guard-injured/story-3Z6s5vxCikrjvrgx687QsL.html
31-05-2020||City||Migrant workers struggle to feed families, stare at unpaid rents||Navi Mumbai Migrant workers, who left their hometowns hoping for a better life in the city, have been forced by the coronavirus lockdown to stare at an uncertain future. Belapur-based Sajan Jha, 35, worked at a restaurant as a cashier until it shut down due to the lockdown. Jha lives with his wife and two daughters, one aged three years and another nine months. He had returned with his family from Darbhanga in Bihar only a few weeks before the lockdown. “One day, a local Gurudwara provided us food, it lasted for a while, another time an NGO provided milk powder for my daughter. We have almost run out of money and I am mainly worried for milk for my young daughter,” said Jha.Jha then sent out a message to a friend seeking ration for his family and 14 others in his area, all of whom have been struggling to make ends meet. The message found its way to Navi Mumbai police on Sunday and within hours, the police provided rations to the families.“I cannot put food on my plate while my neighbour starves. We are worried about the future. We will face hunger for a while but will not leave Mumbai. We will not get work back home,” Jha said.Manish Singh, 36, is also on the same boat. Singh worked at a restaurant and only a few days before the lockdown was set to start his own small canteen. His family lives in Uttarakhand and he tried to return on the Shramik Special train, but his name wasn’t listed.Singh said he will wait it out until lockdown is over before returning home.“The canteen may not start. I will find something in the village. In hindsight, I think it is okay to stay hungry for some time rather than die like animals trying to get back home. When I get ration and cook for myself, I share it with someone needy in the area,” he said Ravindra Prasad, 40, and his wife stay with their nine-year-old twins – a boy and a girl - in Belapur on rent. For three months, Prasad has not paid his monthly rent. The landlord has not come asking for money but Prasad knows he will have to arrange the money soon.He used to run a snacks cart and would earn Rs 12,000 per month. After the cart was shut, Prasad does not know what the future holds except his option to return to Bihar.“I will have to return home with my family. I will work at a farm and earn whatever little I can. We are daily wage workers, we cannot sit at home for six months and eat peacefully,” said Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrant-workers-struggle-to-feed-families-stare-at-unpaid-rents/story-NzEAq4gkhvrmbzT67yFZEL.html
31-05-2020||City||Lineman electrocuted; four booked for negligence||Gurugram: Four days after he joined work, a 34-year-old man, who worked as a lineman for a private company, was allegedly electrocuted while repairing a technical fault at a power cable in Kanhai village on Friday. The police said they have booked four people from the private company where he worked for negligence on the complaint of the victim’s brother. According to the police, the incident was reported on Friday around 4.30pm when the victim, Yashvir, had gone to repair the power cable. The police said while repairing the line, he suffered a voltage shock when he was perched on the top of a tower at a height of about 12 metres and collapsed. Some colleagues and passersby rushed him to a private hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival, said the police.The police said the discom had given the contract for repairing the power line to the private company where the victim worked.His brother, Santram, alleged that his brother was not provided adequate safety gear, which led to his death. “On March 23, he had returned to our native house in Panipat. During the entire lockdown period, he was staying at home in the absence of work. He had joined work four days ago. Had his employers provided him with safety gear, he would have survived,” said Santram.Santram also alleged that his brother was threatened to resume work during the lockdown or face termination. “He was called to work after completing his shift and threatened with non-payment of salary if he refused to work,” he said.A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said that police had initiated a probe and no persons have been arrested so far. A case was registered against the four accused persons under sections 304-A (causing death by negligence) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) at Sector 40 police station on Sunday, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lineman-electrocuted-four-booked-for-negligence/story-j07O2gwzRxXyuWneYMMMHN.html
31-05-2020||Gurugram||Admin asks residents not to panic even as Covid-19 cases rise rapidly||To reassure residents worried by the rapid increase in the number of Covid-19 cases across the district, the administration on Saturday said that there were adequate health care facilities in place and there was no need to panic. Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said that shortcomings in hospitals or in sample-taking have been taken care of and adequate facilities are now available to take care of city residents.Khatri said that the majority of patients are asymptomatic and don’t need hospitalisation or serious medical care. “Such patients can recuperate in isolation centres or at their homes and need to be observed by healthcare professionals from time to time,” he said, adding that this was why residents didn’t need to worry.The deputy commissioner also said that a standard operating procedure for Covid-19 management would be issued soon to make people aware about what to do for patients in home isolation, what action to take in case a person living in the neighbourhood was reported positive and what kind of precautions people living in containment zones must take. Guidelines would also make it clear when testing has to be taken and when it would be appropriate to get admitted into a hospital.Additionally, the district administration also said that residents can seek help via the helpline number 1950, which is operational 24X7. Officials also said that till date over one lakh persons have called the helpline and sought help or information from authorities pertaining to complaint resolution, online movement passes, registration of migrant and distribution of food and apart from matters has been done.Additional commissioner Aprajita said that 40 operators were available 24 hours to attend to calls from city residents pertaining to various issues. She added that the operators would also provide detailed information related to Covid-19 protocols, provide food to needy people, and take up relevant matters with different departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/admin-asks-residents-not-to-panic-even-as-covid-19-cases-rise-rapidly/story-wthBsvUzBrJ5fN6zqa8UyK.html
31-05-2020||City||Gurugram’s Covid-19 tally almost doubles in three days||Gurugram:The district registered 97 new Covid-19 patients on Sunday, taking the tally of positive cases to 774, health officials said. With this, the district now accounts for a whopping 37% of all Covid-19 cases in Haryana, as per the state health department’s bulletin.The state reported a total of 2,091 positive cases till Sunday evening.According to the officials, Gurugram’s tally of positive cases has almost doubled in just three days, with 369 new Covid-19 cases recorded since May 28 when the tally stood at 405. Notably, it took more than two months for the district to record its first 350 cases, the officials said. Till May 27, 337 people were found positive for the virus. The health officials attributed the sudden spike in Covid-19 cases in the district mainly to relaxation in lockdown restrictions. Currently, the district has 487 active cases, they said.This trend, experts say, is worrying, especially since the district’s test positivity rate (TPR) -- the ratio of positive cases to samples tested -- is also on the rise. According to official figures, Gurugram’s TPR soared from 10% on May 27 to 24% on May 28, and further climbed up to 53% on May 29. Meanwhile, the number of new tests being conducted daily has not significantly increased.For example, on May 22, when 353 new samples were tested from Gurugram, the district recorded just 11 new Covid-19 cases, resulting in a TPR of 3%. However, on May 28, 286 new samples from the district were tested, of which 68 were found positive, with a TPR of 24%. On May 30, more than half of the 350 new samples tested came back positive.“An increasing test positivity rate is not necessarily a cause for alarm, as it indicates that surveillance systems are working effectively. However, given that the number of daily tests being conducted has not significantly improved, it could mean that background prevalence of the disease in the population at large is quite high,” said Rajesh Kumar, epidemiologist and former professor of community medicine at PGIMER, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-s-covid-19-tally-almost-doubles-in-three-days/story-KMypaZ2R4zbLhsdlSjKMZO.html
31-05-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Offices reopening, day cares shut, parents face a difficult choice||With the lockdown being eased and the city’s offices slowly sputtering back to life, working couples are faced with a difficult choice — how to maintain a healthy work-life balance, with day care centres in the city continuing to stay shut. While some of them are ensuring that one partner stays back home, others are planning to hire full domestic helps who can stay at home with the child.Smita Pal, the mother of a four-year-old, said she has been working from home since the lockdown began. Now, while her husband has started going to office, she expects her office routine to resume soon. With day care centres closed due to restrictions, she and her husband are under pressure to find a solution.“My son goes to school and then to a day-care facility normally. But, with daycare centres shut, we are not sure how we will manage, once my office starts operations. We are a nuclear family and for the past two weeks, we have been pondering over the choices that we have before us. It will be a huge challenge for us,” said Pal, who has started looking out for a 12-hour domestic help, who could possibly stay at home in her absence. “We opted for day care centres earlier, since we didn’t prefer our child staying at home alone. With so many constraints now, however, we are being compelled to make difficult choices and have started looking out for a domestic help,” said Pal.Another parent, a mother of a 2-year-old, who did not wish to be named, said that she and her partner were stressed about leaving their child behind after offices resume full time work from June. “I am supposed to join work from the first week of June, while my husband is already working. Since it’s a new job, I’m not sure if I can opt for work from home. We don’t know what to do especially now that day care facilities are no longer an option,” she said. “Cases are rising, infections are rising, but at some point, one has to start going back to work. A possible solution is to hire a full-time domestic help. But there are concerns surrounding that too. We can’t be sure if someone is an asymptomatic carrier and taking such a risk might not pan out well,” she said.Shveta Sharma, who works in the hospitality sector, said that she was unsure about sending her five-year-old daughter to school or day care till at least December, since the number of Covid-19 cases were rising steadily. “It doesn’t feel safe. We don’t feel confident about sending our daughter away anywhere. Day cares are not an option and so far, we are trying to build a balance at home,” said Sharma. She said that employees at her company were free to work from home, but challenges remained. “One is required to meet clients for sales. We are not sure for how long can we afford to stay at home. Leaving children alone at home is not an option either. There is a lot of dilemma for all working parents,” said Sharma.Gurugram so far has registered 774 number of cases with three deaths due to Covid-19.Sharma added that support and clear communication from employers to employees was crucial in such periods. “Sometimes, organisations inform employees a week or two in advance when they make changes to their working guidelines during the pandemic. Adapting to such situations requires planning, especially for working families. We can’t simply leave our child behind with no one else to take care of them. Communicating in advance will allow parents to work on possible solutions,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-offices-reopening-day-cares-shut-parents-face-a-difficult-choice/story-mIxXJoB2O4lXRY3uJk8oYM.html
31-05-2020||Gurugram||Religious places suggest delayed opening, hotels ready to welcome guests||The district administration has decided to follow the revised night curfew timings issued by the ministry of home affairs — 9pm to 5am — and held a meeting with representatives of religious organisations, restaurants and hospitality industry for a phased exit from the lockdown.The meeting was chaired by divisional commissioner Ashok Sangwan while Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gururgam was also present.Officials said that decision to open religious places and business establishment would be taken on the basis of guidelines issued by the Union health ministry. The inputs from local stakeholders would help in phased exit from lockdown that was imposed on March 22.In the meeting, representatives of religious organisations asked the authorities to show restraint and delay the opening of the religious places in the city as there was a possibility of large crowds gathering at these places, which could further the spread of Covid-19. The representatives also said that it would be difficult to prevent people from visiting religious sites once they are open, as per a statement issued by the administration.“We have to exit the lockdown in a phased manner. The state government has to decide on the services which can be opened. In phase one, the guidelines will be applicable to three kinds of institutions that include hotels, religious places and shopping malls,” said Sangwan. He also asked the religious organisations to share plans for ensuring social distancing while performing prayers and other rituals at the places of worship.The representatives of the hotel and restaurant industry asked the district administration to allow the resumption of business as they are ready to follow all the safeguards prescribed by the government. They also said that there was no problem with regard to safety and security, as guests continue to stay in city hotels.In the meeting, Sangwan said that a standard operating procedure based on the guidelines of health ministry would be prepared. He said that hotel rooms should be properly sanitised and permission can be granted for room service, but serving walk-in customers won’t be allowed. He also called for adequate social distancing among guests and said that gyms and swimming pools in hotels would not be allowed to operate.In the case of restaurants, the divisional commissioner said that only take-away service would be allowed and that the permission for hosting guests would be given later, based on the emerging situation. The representatives asked the authorities to allow 50% guest capacity in restaurants.Authorities also said that suggestions in this regard can be emailed to dcgrg@hry.nic.in.Earlier in the day, a notification was issued by deputy commissioner changing the curfew timings. The order said that movement of any individual whomsoever for non-essential purposes shall henceforth remain restricted between 9pm and 5pm from May 31 to June 30. The order also said that persons above the age of 65 years, persons having co-morbidities suffering from chronic diseases, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 years shall avoid coming out in the open except in the case of a medical emergency or essential requirement as specified in the national directive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/religious-places-suggest-delayed-opening-hotels-ready-to-welcome-guests/story-MHfFSmeCoeY4at9tzGRADN.html
31-05-2020||City||Gurugram: Clear skies today; more rain expected after June 3||Gurugram: Heavy rains accompanied by squalls of winds and lighting lashed the city for the second time this week, resulting from a western disturbance (WD) passing through the national Capital region. According to forecasts of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the next few days are likely to see an increase in temperature by two to four degrees Celsius, while fresh showers are expected after June 3.The IMD had said Saturday that the combined influence of a WD and an east-west trough in lower tropospheric-levels would bring further rainfall to parts of NCR and the northern plains over the weekend. Gurugram received 5mm of rainfall until 8:30am Sunday morning, while gusty winds of speeds between 40 and 60kmph and heavy showers were observed late afternoon.Sunday’s maximum temperature, according to IMD data, was recorded at 33 degrees Celsius (down from 34.1 degrees Celsius the previous day), while minimum temperature was recorded at 20 degrees Celsius (down from 21 degrees Celsius the previous day).The impact of these weather events, officials said, is likely to diminish by tomorrow, bringing back clear skies to Gurugram. Going by the IMD’s seven-day forecast for the city, “partially cloudy skies” are expected to prevail till June 3, with maximum temperature not exceeding 37 degrees Celsius and minimum temperature not falling below 27 degrees Celsius.“But a fresh WD will manifest from the night of June 3. South-westerly winds blowing through Rajasthan due to the formation of a low pressure zone in the Arabian sea, and their movement via the Gujarat coast, would bring moisture to parts of north-west India and NCR,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, spokesperson, IMD.The combined effect of these two weather systems, according to the IMD, will lead to thunderstorms and light rain activity over NCR between June 3 and June 5, peaking on June 4. However, these conditions will also ensure that temperatures in the region remain low, with heat wave conditions not expected till at least June 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-clear-skies-today-more-rain-expected-after-june-3/story-EXJn3erqfQXbfQvJKSVwEN.html
31-05-2020||City||Gurugram: Border with Delhi to remain sealed, three separate lanes for checking||Gurugram: The Gurugram police have chalked out a new plan to deal with the rising number of vehicles on the city borders. Police officials said that 50 personnel will be deployed on the Sirhaul border starting Monday to control the traffic movement. However, the border with Delhi will remain sealed till fresh directions are issued by the state government, the officials said.As per the new plan, three different lanes will be set up for pass holders, essential services, and paramedical and sanitation workers. The extreme right lane will be for heavy vehicles and they will be checked 100 metres before the barricades. The initiative has been taken to ensure a smooth flow of traffic at the border, the officials said.Also, no motorist will be allowed to stand huddled during checking, the police said, adding that social distancing is very important to contain the Covid-19 spread.The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Saturday had issued new guidelines for phased re-opening of areas outside the containment zones. In its new order, the MHA said that there shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods. But it also said that if a state, based on reasons of public health and its assessment of the situation, proposes to regulate the movement of persons, it will give wide publicity in advance regarding the restrictions to be placed on such movement, and the related procedures to be followed. The new guidelines will come into effect from June 1 and will be implemented until June 30.Muhammad Akil, commissioner of police, Gurugram, said that they have not de-sealed the border and are allowing people without passes in case of emergency. “With the growing number of cases connected to Delhi, we are taking extra precautionary measures to ensure the residents are safe and healthy. All essential services will be given separate lanes to pass the stretch, but checking will be conducted based on suspicious activity,” he said.The police said they are manning all the 11 borders to ensure no illegal activity or trafficking takes place.The inter-district borders with the state are open, said the officials, adding that the police personnel are deployed at all the borders connecting to other districts such as Faridabad, Nuh, Jhajjar, and Rewari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-border-with-delhi-to-remain-sealed-three-separate-lanes-for-checking/story-gx94wwB5OSeqc6DfwRskdO.html
31-05-2020||City||Panvel tally surge past 500 with 30 new cases||A total of 30 Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Panvel on Sunday, the highest single-day jump.The total cases recorded by Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) are 526. The new cases include three members of a family from Kalamboli.Of the total positive cases reported in the PCMC jurisdiction, 92 are from Kalamboli, 198 are from Kamothe, 115 from Kharghar, 79 from New Panvel, 35 from Panvel and seven from Taloja.Navi Mumbai’s Covid case was 2,204 on Sunday with 94 new cases on Sunday.Three deaths were also reported, taking the total toll to 73. Among the new cases are five children -- a five-year-old boy from Kopar Khairane, a 15-year-old girl from Koprigaon in Vashi, a seven-year-old boy and a 15-year-old girl from Kopar Khairane and a 12-year-old boy from Kopar Khairane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panvel-tally-surge-past-500-with-30-new-cases/story-eCW4g6Wxyz3kkorzP09hDK.html
31-05-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram police ask businesses to ensure visitors remove face mask once before entering premises||The police have directed all banks, jewellery stores and malls to ensure that customers remove their masks in front of CCTV cameras once they enter the premises so that their face can be captured.The police said the move was to ensure that no one takes advantage of a mask to rob or dupe anyone.An advisory was issued in this regard by state’s director-general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava earlier this week to ensure that banks, jewellers, cash-dealing establishments and other companies are not targeted by miscreants and criminals.The police in every district in the state have directed the above-mentioned establishments to display the advisory, asking people to remove their masks while entering the premises.The state government had earlier made it mandatory for people to wear a face mask at work and public places in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Muhammad Akil, commissioner of police, said as people started commuting after the relaxations were announced, many complaints were received from people, alleging that incidents of snatching by people wearing masks were on the rise. “We have directed all the crime investigation units to ensure all the business establishments are well covered with CCTV cameras and they adhere to the newly released advisory,” he said.Akil said if any criminal activity takes place, the suspects can be apprehended with the help of the CCTV footage. “The miscreants, robbers or any criminal can take advantage of the current situation and escape through the vacant lanes or roads. People dealing in cash should take extra precautionary measures while carrying a large amount of cash while travelling or returning home,” he said.The deployment of police across the city has been increased and the crime unit staff has been deployed in market areas in plain clothes.“We are requesting people to inform the police control room(PCR) if they find any unusual activity or suspect anyone behind the mask. Immediate action will be taken and a team from the nearest police station/PCR will be sent to the spot,” said Akil.Each police station has also been given the task of taking care of the locked houses as thieves can take advantage of the situation as most of the migrant workers have returned to their home towns due to the Covid-19 pandemic, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-police-ask-businesses-to-ensure-visitors-remove-face-mask-once-before-entering-premises/story-uyAFtSv9c0xXPieoNkGSlN.html
31-05-2020||Mumbai||Bandra man smashes bottle on friend’s head and robs him, arrested||A 29-year-old man booked in several cases of assault and robbery was arrested by Nirmal Nagar police on Sunday. In the most recent case, the accused attacked his 25-year-old friend on the head with a glass bottle and robbed him in Bandra (East).According to police, the accused Hanif Shaikh and the victim Shehbaz Shaikh, 25, both residents of Bandra (East), were unemployed and staying at home during to lockdown.“The incident occurred on May 17 around 12PM when Shehbaz was playing a game on his mobile phone. Shaikh came over and told him that he was out of money as he was not working due to lockdown. He asked Shehbaz to help him with some money for his daily expenses,” said Shashikant Bhandare senior inspector, Nirmal Nagar police station.Shehbaz initially ignored Shaikh but later told him that he too did not have money and would not be able to help him. However, Shaikh got angry and picked up a glass bottle lying nearby and smashed it on the victim’s head.“When Shehbaz fell, Shaikh stole his mobile and ₹5,000 and ran from the spot. Locals took Shehbaz to the nearest hospital for treatment. After being discharged, Shehbaz visited the police station and filed the complaint,” said another officer.“We registered a first information report (FIR) against the accused under sections 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery)of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). We have arrested Shaikh from Bandra (West),” said Bhandare. “Earlier, Shaikh had been booked in several cases of assault and robbery. Considering his criminal history, he had been externed from the city for two years. He was produced before the Bandra holiday court and remanded in police custody for two days,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bandra-man-smashes-bottle-on-friend-s-head-and-robs-him-arrested/story-WGWAVkbBOMTKTy7BsoLnZI.html
31-05-2020||Mumbai||250 Mumbai Police personnel beat Covid, report back to work||Around 250 personnel of the Mumbai Police who were infected with the coronavirus, recovered, were declared fit and have resumed their duties to protect the city in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. Confirming the development, Naval Bajaj, joint commissioner (admin), Mumbai Police, said, “After recovering and being discharged, we ask our men to stay at home for a certain period before declaring them fully fit. About 250 such personnel have been declared fully fit and reported back to duty.” Of the total 472 discharged, as many as 300 personnel recovered at special Covid care centres set up by the police department, confirmed Bajaj. Till Friday night, 1,390 police personnel had tested positive for Covid-19 and 16 succumbed to the virus. 20K migrants, on waiting list, 30,000 leave on SundayMaharashtra Police till Saturday night sent 11.56 lakh stranded migrants back to their home states in 792 Shramik trains and said around 20,000 on the waiting list are mostly from West Bengal. “Around 30,000 migrants left on Sunday. We will require around 15 more trains to send back the remaining 20,000 migrants,” said Amitabh Gupta, principal secretary (special) and head of the three-member committee formed for stranded migrants. 1.20 lakh FIRs, 76 K vehicles seized From March 22 till Sunday morning, Maharashtra Police registered a total of 1,20,150 FIRs and arrested 23, 575 people for lockdown violations. It also seized a total of 76, 445 vehicles. Fine of ₹6 crore has been collected from violators. Till now, 86 policemen and 45 health workers have been injured in assault cases while discharging their duties. A total of 835 people have been arrested and 257 FIRs were registered in this regard. Another 706 people have been booked for violating home quarantine. Mumbai Police booked 46 people in 23 FIRs and arrested 31 on Saturday for lockdown violations. Among the 23 FIRs, a maximum of 14 are for gathering in one place, four for not wearing masks, two each against unnecessary use of vehicles, and shops operating in violation of lockdown rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/250-mumbai-police-personnel-beat-covid-report-back-to-work/story-O8L0zLgimAEN065uT2TyuI.html
31-05-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana girl tops Panjab University’s BCom third semester examinations||Aakriti, a student of Khalsa College for Women, Civil Lines, has topped Panjab University in the bachelor of commerce (BCom) third semester examination by securing 85.67%.Aakriti, 19, said, “I had secured the first position in the college earlier, but this is the first time I have topped the varsity. I made a lot of effort to score well but didn’t expect such a good result.”Aiming to become an IAS officer, she credited her teachers and college principal for the performance. “I have been regular in class and teachers have guided me throughout,” she said. Principal Mukti Gill appreciated the efforts of students and staff members of department of commerce for their efforts.Two students of Ramgarhia Girls College also performed well in the exams that were conducted by PU in December 2019.Divya secured the fifth position in the varsity with a score of 84.33% and Jyoti bagged the eighth position by scoring 83.67%.Principal Inderjit Kaur congratulated Ajit Kaur, HoD, post graduate department of commerce, staff members and the students for the result.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-girl-tops-panjab-university-s-bcom-third-semester-examinations/story-bpFixlVknILUZs3IiHxJeJ.html
31-05-2020||City||As Covid-19 cases rise, Vaishali placed under sealing till further orders||In wake of rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the district administration on Sunday decided to implement the ‘sector scheme’, akin to sealing, in Vaishali locality from June 1 till further orders. The officials said that sectors 1 to 6 of Vaishali will be placed under the scheme and there will be strict restrictions on the movement of residents in the locality which has emerged as a Covid-19 hot spot.Till May 31, as many as 34 Covid-19 positive cases have been reported from Vaishali. The concept of sector scheme is already in place in Khoda and Loni, which have also witnessed the majority of cases in Ghaziabad. Under the sector scheme concept, teams of police, magistrates and health department officials take over an area for strict surveillance, sampling and contact tracing while ensuring restriction on movement of residents. Khoda locality was sealed on May 10, while Loni was put off bounds on May 27. “The sector scheme will be implemented in sectors 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 of Vaishali locality. There will be restriction on movement of people in and out of the locality. Essential supplies like milk, vegetables, medicines and other necessary services will be provided by the administration. Apart from these, teams of health department, police and administrative officials will remain deployed at Vaishali till further order,” Aditya Prajapati, sub-divisional magistrate, said.Under the scheme, Vaishali has been divided into two zones comprising four sub-zones. Each sub-zone will be assigned with a team of officers who will check for violation of lockdown norms, and also take up legal action against violators.“Under this scheme, intensive sanitsation will be carried out in Vaishali, and we samples will be collected to find people who may have contracted the virus,” Prajapati added.Vaishali shares its borders with Delhi and hosts an estimated population of about 1.5 lakh people.“People from Vaishali will not be allowed to leave the locality, and they have been advised to stay at home. However, people engaged in essential services like police, doctors, paramedics and even media persons will be allowed to move out,” Manish Mishra, superintendent of police (city) said.According to official records of the administration, Vaishali has five category 1 containment zones (areas where at least one case has emerged), and also two category 2 containment zones ( areas where more than one positive case has emerged).The district officials have been mulling over implementing the sector scheme in Vaishali and also inspected the area on Saturday.“We have decided that any area from where a large number of cases are reported will be subjected to the sector scheme in order to contain the spread of the Covid-19 infection,” said an officer from Ghaziabad district administration.32 NEW CASES REPORTED, TALLY AT 319The Ghaziabad district on Sunday recorded 32 new Covid-19 cases which took the district tally to 319 cases. This is the highest spike reported in a single day so far. The health department officials said that samples of 18 of these cases were tested in government laboratories, while 14 others were tested by private labs.“The 14 samples tested positive by private laboratories have been sent for further testing and results awaited,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.One case each, of the 18 confirmed positive cases, were reported from Maharajpur, Vasundhara, Sahibabad, Sanjay Nagar, and Daulatpura, while two cases each were reported from Sarai Nazar Ali, Vijay Nagar, and Vaishali, besides three cases from Lohiya Nagar and four from Loni.The details of 14 cases tested positive by private laboratories were not available with the district health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-covid-19-cases-rise-vaishali-placed-under-sealing-till-further-orders/story-neZriC5B7uzVDvMbEmgE5K.html
31-05-2020||City||Noida: Marked improvement in Okhla Bird Sanctuary habitat due to lockdown, say experts||Noida: Out of bounds for visitors and low on pollution since March, combined with favourable weather conditions have resulted in an improvement in habitat at the Okhla Bird Sanctuary, ecologists and officials of the forest department claim.According to the forest department, a pair of Common Cuckoo (Cocculus Conorus) birds called papiha was spotted at the sanctuary after a gap of two years.“A pair of Coculus Conorus was spotted on Sunday. It was after two years that the bird spotted in the sanctuary. This is the breeding season of terrestrial birds. Due to favourable weather, the sanctuary has seen good green cover. We take this spotting as a sign of improvement in habitat as well,” said Pramod Kumar Srivastava, divisional forest officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.According to an ecologist from Wetland International who recently visited the sanctuary, the habitat has improved, with cleaner water in wetlands because of absence of industrial effluents in the river Yamuna during the lockdown, imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease. They also held negligible human disturbance as a bonus towards the improvement in the habitat, especially for the breeding season of terrestrial birds, allowing a better and freer environment to the birds to move about.“There is a clear visible improvement in the sanctuary. The chirping is loud and clear even from the entry gates, and the movement of birds, which were earlier often seen at good height or in the core part of the sanctuary is now visible uniformly. More and more species diversity was much evident in one swipe view,” said TK Roy, ecologist and Delhi state coordinator of Asia Waterbird Census, Wetland International.He further pointed out that favourable climatic conditions such as lesser heat, and occasional rains recently, also helped the sanctuary retain its greenery in the month of May when summer is at its peak usually, which is something he feels is favourable for the ongoing breeding season of the terrestrial birds.Stating that as the lockdown led to industries halting operations, the water quality of the wetland – that comprises a large part of the sanctuary – has shown visible improvement.“The foul odour of the water which was there before has almost gone. Earlier, the water here was almost blackish but this has improved as well,” Roy added.Earlier in February, the forest department had the water samples tested, which had revealed high oil and grease content, low oxygen levels and several faecal pollutants, leading to odour and darker colour in appearance. According to the forest department, while there are no sources of pollution within the bird sanctuary itself, it holds around 19 untreated drains in Delhi, discharging industrial and domestic effluents in the river, responsible for the polluted wetland.“We are yet to get water samples tested so as to understand how much the water quality has improved. However, there is a clear, visible improvement in the odour and the colour of the water. This has led to an overall habitat improvement of the sanctuary. Also, while migratory birds often leave by the end of March, there are still plenty of them staying back,” said Srivastava.Meanwhile, a total 70 species of birds, including summer migrants, were seen on Saturday itself at the sanctuary by experts.These species include summer migratory birds such as Common Hawk, Common Cuckoo, the Indian Golden Oriole, Blue-tailed Bee-eater, Streaked Weaver and resident terrestrial birds including the Indian Grey Hornbill, Brown-headed Barbet, Coppersmith Barbet, Yellow-footed Green Pigeon, Black Drongo, Green Bee-eater, Spotted Owlet, Grey Francolin, Yellow-bellied Prinia and Striated Grassbird.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-marked-improvement-in-okhla-bird-sanctuary-habitat-due-to-lockdown-say-experts/story-Tk3W8lOddyhEbWTbtmgdkN.html
31-05-2020||City||Ghaziabad gets two ventilators for non-Covid emergencies||A 70-year-old woman, who was rushed to MMG Hospital on Saturday after complaining of breathlessness, was denied admission and instead referred to Meerut Medical College. Reason: The hospital didn’t have any spare ventilators for non-Covid related emergencies.The incident on Sunday caught the attention of UP’s state minister for health and Ghaziabad MLA, Atul Garg, who immediately called a meeting of district health department officials and decided to dedicate two ventilators for non-Covid critical patients at MMG District Hospital.“The 70-year-old woman was brought to MMG Hospital on Saturday with complaints of breathlessness and had to be referred to Meerut as there were no spare ventilator available with us for regular patients at any government hospital. We already had five ventilators at Sanjay Nagar Hospital, which was recently dedicated for Covid patients since the hospital is now functioning as L2 category dedicated Covid hospital,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO).“Five more ventilators had arrived, of which three were given to Sanjay Nagar, while remaining two were sent to Agra. Since we had no non-Covid ventilators at any of our hospitals, the patient was referred to Meerut. She is a non-Covid patient as of now and her tests will be conducted,” CMO added.He said that after the patient was referred to Meerut, the minister called the CMO and hospital authorities of the two hospitals for a meeting.“The patient was from Kaila Bhatta and required ventilator support. Since it was not available, we had to send her to Meerut. I have called the CMO and the officials of the two hospitals. We will have non-Covid ventilators by Sunday evening,” Garg, said.Following the discussions, two ventilators were made available to MMG Hospital on Sunday evening.“During the meeting with the minister, it was decided that two ventilators available with us taht were to be sent to Agra, will now be given to MMG Hospital, which is a non-Covid government hospital,” the CMO said on Sunday evening.Under the instructions of the UP government, the state officials have come up with three-tier dedicated Covid hospitals — L1, L2 and L3 . The hospitals have also been provided with ventilators, oxygen supplies and other equipment to deal with Covid patients.“Now we have achieved the target of one lakh Covid beds as directed by the chief minister. The figure of Covid beds in L1, L2 and L3 category hospitals as of Sunday is 1,01, 236. We will now focus on quality improvement. Under this, we will focus on provision of equipment, medicines, medical teams, infra red thermometers, pulse oxymeters and ventilators for Covid-19 treatment,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP principal secretary (health).Meanwhile, the Ghaziabad authorities have planned to implement the lockdown guidelines issued by the UP government from June 1, but such relaxations will not be available in containment zones in the district.The officials said that majority of the containment zones, about 90% as per the list issued on May 30 with new definition, fall under the Ghaziabad city areas.According to a list prepared by the Ghaziabad district administration, the district has 65 identified category 1 containment zones, of which only seven are in rural areas.The list includes five category 1 containment zones in Vaishali, four in Vasundhara, six in Maharajpur and Jhandapur, 11 in Khoda, three in Indirapuram and seven in Vijay Nagar among others. All the areas are in the zones which have already categorised as Red Zones.The district has another set of seven, category 2 containment zones, where more than one case has been reported. The category 2 containment zones include six zones in urban areas and one in rural. These include two in Vaishali, one each in Indirapuram, Vasundhara and Jhandapur.The state government has also defined a new set of guidelines for sealing of residential highrises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-gets-two-ventilators-for-non-covid-emergencies/story-faxbqdZFihZBnlpW3GQByO.html
31-05-2020||City||Five men booked for beating up vegetable seller over ₹1 dispute||The Noida Police on Saturday booked five persons after they allegedly thrashed and broke the leg of a vegetable seller in Greater Noida(west) over a dispute of ₹1.According to cops, victim Aman had sold a pumpkin for ₹13 to the suspects, who paid ₹12. When the vegetable seller asked for the remaining ₹1, the suspects allegedly took up a fight and broke his leg. Aman’s brother Anand filed a complaint at the Bisrakh police station on Saturday. He said that Aman was selling vegetables in the local market when the suspect Rohit reached the spot and bought a pumpkin. “The pumpkin was for ₹13 but he paid ₹12. When my brother refused to sell the vegetable to him, the suspect called four others, Raju, Ganga, Rahul and Prabhakar, and thrashed him,” he said.Aman said as a result of the assault, he received a fracture in his left leg.“I was rushed to a private hospital for medical treatment. The suspects fled the spot soon after,” he said.Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said that based on complaint, the police registered a case against five persons under sections 147 (rioting), 23 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 504 (intentional insult) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC). “Rohit, Raju and Ganga were arrested after the incident. They were produced before a court and sent to jail,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-men-booked-for-beating-up-vegetable-seller-over-1-dispute/story-JzRY1ZiPH3YGG3lbW4i3CP.html
31-05-2020||City||Ex-employee arrested for sending threat emails to company CEO||Police on Sunday arrested a 40-year-old man for allegedly emailing threats emails to his former employers, a company in Greater Noida. Police identified the suspect as Deepak Sahu, a resident of AVJ Heights in Greater Noida. He had allegedly sent the email, dated May 24, to Ecotech III-based Graziano Trasmissioni India Private Limited’s chief executive officer (CEO) Vivek Prakash. The company had laid off Sahu in 2018 and allegedly owed him money. To get his money, said police, Sahu sent an email reminding them of an incident in 2008 when the then CEO Lalit Kishore Chaudhury was murdered on the after it laid of a few workers.On May 26, the company approached the Ecotech III police station and lodged a complaint. With the 2008 incident Police said the email was sent under the name of “Anoop Kumar”.Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said: “We scanned the email content and found the sender was aware of the company’s internal issues. The email had stated some internal matters and company’s functioning. We then traced the IP address to Sahu, a former general manager at the company.” Sahu revealed to police that he was with the company till 2018. “He said that he had some dues with the company and wanted clearance. He made a fake email ID and started sending threatening emails to the company management,” Chander said, adding that the company representatives told police that they had no dues pending in Sahu’s name.Police said the case was sensitive in the background of the Chaudhury murder case, in which the Surajpur district and sessions court had sentenced four men to life imprisonment in 2017.Chander said police recovered the mobile phone and laptop used in sending the threatening email. “A case is registered against him under Section 66 of IT Act in Sector Ecotech III police station. The suspect was produced before a magistrate and sent to judicial custody,” he added.“We have received information that the person was arrested. We will not comment on the issue as of now,” said Purushottam Jagid, general manager, human resources, Graziano Trasmissioni India Private Limited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ex-employee-arrested-for-sending-threat-emails-to-company-ceo/story-BdWxuVsMfjxc8lLqXZ9TzM.html
31-05-2020||City||Body mix-up case: NMMC issues show-cause notice||Navi Mumbai Municipal commissioner Annasaheb Misal has issued a show-cause notice to the authorities of its civic hospital in Vashi, where a body had gone missing earlier this month and was later found to be wrongly cremated by another family.Confirming the order, NMMC chief medical officer of health, Balasaheb Sonawane, said, “The civic body has taken a serious note of the issue. An inquiry was initiated following the incident and the commissioner has issued a notice to the hospital authorities asking for an explanation on the incident.”Sonawane added, “We would not like to reveal to whom the notice has been issued as the matter is still under investigation.”The mix-up of bodies came to light on May 18, a day after the friend of a construction labourer Umar Farooq Shaikh, 29, had gone to the NMMC hospital to claim his body. Shaikh, a resident of Ulwe, had died on May 9 at his Ulwe house. His friend took the body to the civic hospital for a coronavirus test.On May 16, the hospital staff told Shaikh’s friend to collect his body as he had tested negative. However, when the man went to the hospital to collect the body, the staff was unable to find it.Later, the police found that a Digha-based mason, Dashrat Suryawanshi, had claimed the body on May 14, mistaking it for his 18-year-old daughter. She had died of jaundice on May 4 and he too had taken her body to the NMMC hospital for the coronavirus test.The Vashi police had then booked Suryawanshi and a hospital sanitation worker for the mix-up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/body-mix-up-case-nmmc-issues-show-cause-notice/story-MZwZkd7bY0nTYlZmcwlCWN.html
31-05-2020||City||With 60 fresh cases, Covid-19 count reaches 462 in Gautam Budh Nagar||HT Correspondenthtreporters@hindustantimes.comNOIDA: Gautam Budh Nagar reported 60 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the tally of positive cases to 462 in the district. This is the highest number of cases in a single day so far, health officials said. Of the new cases, 48 are cases found from different parts of the district and three are old patients with second sampling found positive, the officials said. Besides, nine patients have been cross-notified from other districts of Uttar Pradesh and other states. District surveillance officer Dr Sunil Dohre said that five patients were found positive from the same family, whose relative was under treatment in a Delhi-based hospital. “All of them, residents of Sector 48, acquired infection during treatment of relative from hospital. Another 21 patients tested Covid-19 positive, who were suffering from influenza like illness. They are from different parts of the district,” he said.Dohre further said that nine patients were contacts of previous Covid-19 positive patients. “The other patients included a woman of Sector 9, one male patient of Sector 55 – who was due for elective surgery, one male cancer patient of Tugalpur village and one male from Hoshiyarpur. Besides, five people, the relatives of a Covid-19 patient who was working at a private company in Sector 16, were also tested positive,” he said.Dohre further said that the remaining four cases include a 23-year-old man from Sector 63, a 26-year-old man from Sector 36, a 27-year-old woman from Grater Noida and a 55-year-old man from Chichli village in Greater Noida.He further said that among the positive patients, nine are cross notified from Delhi and other neighbouring districts of GB Nagar. “Four patients were cross notified to Delhi. In the remaining five, four were cross notified to Bulandshahr and one to Ghaziabad,” he said. “Of 462 positive cases till Sunday late evening, 294 patients have been discharged from different hospitals, seven patients have so far lost their lives and 27 have been cross-notified from other districts and states. As a result, the district now has 134 active cases,” Dohre said.Meanwhile, a 46-year-old male Covid-19 patient was discharged from Sharda Hospital on Sunday, the health officials said.Dohre further said that health camps were organised in 12 sensitive places in the district on Sunday, including at Mamura, Nithari, Sarfabad, Harola, sectors 8, 9 and 10. “A total of 526 patients were screened today and 17 of them, who had symptoms of fever, have been referred to the district hospital,” he said.Giving details of the 27 cross-notified Covid-19 positive cases, the district surveillance officer said that while 12 of them are from Delhi, one patient each from West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh have also been found cross-notified in the GB Nagar district. “While one patient has a duplicate entry in the log, the remaining 12 are from other districts of Uttar Pradesh, including five from Bulanshahr, four from Ghaziabad, two from Hapur and one from Agra,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-nine-fresh-cases-covid-19-count-reaches-414-in-gautam-budh-nagar/story-FB908aoUaa7GYH3BNAvcRM.html
31-05-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Restrictions to ease from today but Delhi border to remain closed||Ghaziabad: After the Uttar Pradesh government issued guidelines for removing lockdown restrictions from June 1, the Ghaziabad district administration said Sunday the relaxations will be fully implemented. Ghaziabad, however, will not be opening any of its borders with Delhi.The state government had earlier in the day issued a set of guidelines, “Unlock 1.0”, for removing restrictions but specifically stated that the local administrations of Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad districts will roll out their own directions in line with public interest.The guidelines from Lucknow came a day after the Union ministry of home affairs issued details of a three-phased plan which aimed at lifting stringent lockdown restrictions which were in place since March 25. The MHA’s plan also removes restrictions on inter-state and intra-state travel but Ghaziabad on Sunday decided against opening its borders with Delhi over concerns of rise in the number of coronavirus (Covid-19) infections.The district shares its borders with Delhi at UP-Gate, Kaushambi-Anand Vihar, Seemapuri and Loni areas.“We have decided to adopt all guidelines issued by the UP state government but have decided against opening our borders with Delhi till further instructions. Entry at the borders will be restricted in line with the earlier directions issued by the district administration. Apart from that, all guidelines issued by the UP government will be put in place from June 1,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.Travel restrictions at the border have been in place since April 20 when the district magistrate had issued orders prohibiting travel, other than for essential and emergency services, between Ghaziabad and Delhi. The officials had attributed the decision to the rising number of Covid-19 cases due to cross border travel.Renewed directions were issued on May 25 citing the same reasons and specific categories of commuters were allowed on the basis of their identification cards or valid passes/authorisation letters.“In areas of the national Capital region like Noida and Ghaziabad, the local administration along with police and health officials, will issue directions keeping in mind public interest. Whatever restrictions are to be put in place, including issuance of passes, etc., will be decided by the local administration,” said Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home).In its guidelines issued Sunday, Lucknow stated that all industrial activities can open up but only those outside containment zones, that too with precautions.“All industrial activities have been directed to start. If there are night shifts then there should be proper arrangement of buses, etc. All district magistrates have been directed to hold discussions with traders’ associations and chalk out plans to open up markets. All markets will open from 9am to 9pm and this has been planned so that there is no large gathering at any one point of time,” Awasthi added.Till May 31, shops in the 34 different markets in Ghaziabad were allowed to open on alternate days from 10am to 5pm. Fruit and vegetable markets are also allowed to open for retailing from 8am to 8pm. The same will now be allowed to open only till 2pm from Monday. “We have devided that earlier directions about opening of markets will be in place till further orders,” the Ghaziabad district magistrate said.“There will still be restrictions on opening of weekly markets in urban areas. Street vendors can open up but only in open areas. Saloons and beauty parlours, etc., will be allowed to open but will be directed to maintain social distancing and use of face masks, one-time use of cloth and towel, and preferably use disposable items,” Awasthi said.He added that taxis, cabs, three-wheelers, autos and e-rickshaws will be allowed to ply but with defined seating capacity.“Only two persons are allowed on two-wheelers but both should be wearing helmets and masks. The UP State Road Transport Corporation buses, stage-carriages, contract buses and city buses will resume operations within the state as per seating capacity. If they don’t follow norms, action will be taken up under the provisions of the Motor Vehicles’ Act as well as the Disaster Management Act,” Awasthi added.Officials said that parks will also be allowed to open from 5am to 8am and 5pm to 8pm each day while sports complexes and stadiums will open without spectators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-restrictions-to-ease-from-today-but-delhi-border-to-remain-closed/story-TC493f2vDPpzH43Tu0VIKP.html
31-05-2020||City||Stepson held for killing mother in Thane||Police arrested the 30-year-old stepson of a 42-year-old woman from Rabodi in Thane on Sunday for killing her by slashing her throat. The stepson, Shahanavaj Ansari, murdered her as she had duped him of Rs 90,000 by luring him with an overseas job offer.Rabodi police said the deceased, Reshma Ansari, resided in the slum tenements of Rabodi. On Friday morning, locals spotted her body near Saket road with throat slit and informed the police.While checking the CCTV footage of the area, a rickshaw was spotted on the same road. Probe revealed that Reshma had boarded the rickshaw from her residence. Police found that the vehicle’s owner was from Kalva who had given this rickshaw on rent to a person from Rabodi area who left for Uttar Pradesh a week and had kept the rickshaw with his friend Shahanavaj.“We arrested Shahanavaj when he confessed to the crime during interrogation. He said that Reshma used to beat him and his younger brother since they were young. He said that his younger brother died when he was in teenage because Reshma had beat him a lot. Shahanavaj had saved Rs 90 thousand to invest when Reshma took the money by luring him with a job out of India. She didn’t give him job nor returned his money,” said a police officer.R Shirtode, senior police inspector, Rabodi police station said, “ The accused called Reshma on Thursday night and asked to come with him in a rickshaw to talk about the money. He took her near Saket road and when she refused to return the money, he attacked her with knife, took all ornaments she was wearing and dumped her body there. We have arrested him under section of Indian Penal Code 302 and recovered the weapon from him. “||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stepson-held-for-killing-mother-in-thane/story-b6Cdtcgh4GBrDo1OJfNDuN.html
31-05-2020||Mumbai||Gawli’s family arranges for his journey to surrender at Nagpur jail on June 2||After the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court (HC) extended the parole of gangster Arun Gawli till June 2 and directed him to report to Nagpur Central Jail, his family is making all efforts for the journey. The family has said that they have already made arrangements on the mode of travel to ensure that he reaches the jail on time. Geeta Gawli, a corporator and daughter of the gangster said that they are following the court order. “As per the order we took my father to Taloja Jail but they refused to admit him. So we again asked the court to extend the parole and it was extended for five days,” said Geeta. “The flights to Nagpur have already started and we will see that he reaches Nagpur on the given time as per the order. The travelling arrangement is mostly done by us,” she added. S. Agawane, senior police inspector, Agripada police station said, “ As Gawli has received a court order, he is allowed to travel interstate.”Gawli is serving a life sentence at Nagpur jail for the murder of Shiv Sena corporator Kamlakar Jamsandekar. He now has to surrender before the Nagpur Central Prison on June 2. He was on parole from February 26 for his daughter Yogita’s wedding. The parole was extended to allow him to attend to his ailing wife. However, on May 22 he was directed by the bench to surrender at the Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai as he was unable to travel to Nagpur due to the lockdown. In a petition before the court on Friday, Gawli’s counsel said that as per the court directives, he went to Taloja jail on May 24 to surrender. However, the jail superintendent refused his entry. The gangster was originally supposed to surrender on April 27, but following the national lockdown, his parole was extended on April 23 for seven days. On April 30, the parole was again extended by another week. Finally, the HC on May 17, directed Gawli to appear before the jail authorities with a period of seven days. Gawli again moved the HC for an extension till May 31. The court then granted him a further period of seven days to travel to Nagpur from Mumbai for surrendering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/gawli-s-family-arranges-for-his-journey-to-surrender-at-nagpur-jail-on-june-2/story-J5sIT5Ts4VhFyZHOvR5JYM.html
31-05-2020||Mumbai||IIT-B resident spots leopard on campus||The campus of the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay (IIT-B) has been a haven for all sorts of wild animals, from leopards to crocodiles to wild stray cattle fighting for space. At present, with 90% students off-campus due to the lockdown, it has once again attracted wildlife.A resident of the campus on Sunday reported a leopard crossing her path at 6:45pm while she was walking her dog. “The leopard crossed my path near the system controls building. A guard had to chase the leopard away and it coolly walked into the woods,” said Falguni Banerjee Naha, PRO of the institute. She added that the leopard was later also spotted from the terrace of another building the same day.In the last week of April, residents of the campus reported two sightings of leopards with the college administration within 24 hours this week. The IIT-B campus is spread over 550 acres bordering the Sanjay Gandhi National Park and this has its pros and cons. While students of the institute pride themselves on living so close to nature that sighting deer, various species of birds and cattle, among other animals is a common feature, many have also complained about uninvited and unpleasant guests.While dog attacks on staff and students, as well as cattle being found inside hostel rooms and classrooms are common, there have also been instances when leopards have entered labs on campus and in another case, a wild bull had attacked a student as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iit-b-resident-spots-leopard-on-campus/story-NQajita9YIsVqVSDd15dtL.html
31-05-2020||City||Kalyan crosses 1,000 mark in Covid cases||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) crossed the 1,000 mark with 54 new Covid-19 cases reported on Sunday. The positive cases in Kalyan-Dombivli are 1,034. On Sunday, the civic body also recorded the death of a 70-year-old woman, taking the death toll to 29.As per the health department of KDMC, the woman, a resident of Kalyan (East), was admitted to Shastrinagar civic hospital in Dombivli and died on May 27. She was suffering from fever since May 18. He report came on Sunday and she tested positive.“Two other high-risk contacts of the woman, including her son who runs a grocery store, have also tested positive. We are tracing as many as contacts of the two who have tested positive,” said an officer of health department, KDMC.Out of the 54 cases reports on Sunday, 29 are from Kalyan (East). The increasing cases in Kalyan (East) are those who were isolated or quarantined, said KDMC commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi.A total 640 patients are still taking treatment while 355 have been discharged by the civic body.The Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) recorded 25 positive cases on Sunday, taking the toll to 36. In Ambernath, the total positive cases have reached 166 and in Badlapur it is 225 positive cases till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-crosses-1-000-mark-in-covid-cases/story-EzL3k7NMqbRBVwhCycnPtJ.html
31-05-2020||City||18-year-old woman among five Covid deaths reported in Thane||An 18-year-old woman was among the five Covid deaths reported on Sunday in Thane.She is the youngest to die of the virus in Thane after a 22-year-old woman succumbed to the infection on May 10. The number of cases in the city has crossed 3,000 with 131 new cases reported on Sunday.The total number of cases in the city is 3,032. Thane Municipal Corporation said 106 people were discharged on Sunday.From 300 Covid cases on May 1, the city’s cases on May 31 is 3,032, with an average increase of 100 cases a day.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “Five deaths, all women, were reported on Sunday. This includes an 18-year-old woman admitted to Thane Civil Hospital on May 11 and died on May 13. The hospital reported the death late. She was a resident of Thakurpada in Mumbra. Four other women from Thane, aged 76, 65, 62 and 50 have died. The death toll in the city is now 89.”Civic commissioner Vijay Singhal has given directives to intensify the door-to-door survey to screen fever patients in the city.Malvi said, “We have formed ward-wise teams to survey each and every area of all the 10 wards in the city. The team will for residents for fever and other symptoms. Those who have fever will immediately be sent to quarantine centres.”Two staffers from Thane Mental Hospital quarantinedTwo employees of Thane Mental Hospital were quarantined after they came in contact with an infected person in their neighbourhood. One of them is quarantined in a TMC quarantine centre while another is quarantined at home. “One of the employees was on leave so he must have not come in contact with many people. We will decide the further course of action depending on the test report of the two employees,” said Malvi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/18-year-old-woman-among-five-covid-deaths-reported-in-thane/story-qIw54N6zSKlcy9E2QvldtN.html
31-05-2020||City||Friends found dead in Ludhiana canal: Families allege murder||Families of the two friends found dead in a Ludhiana canal on Saturday have alleged their sons were murdered.The bodies of Jaswinder Singh, 28, and Tejwinder Singh, 22, both residents of Khud Mohalla, were found in the canal near Kaind Canal bridge on Saturday. They were missing since May 26.Tejwinder’s brother Honey Chattwal said the men could not have committed suicide. “We have seen injury marks on the bodies, which suggest they were murdered. Tejwinder’s body had multiple wounds, while Jaswinder’s teeth were broken. We are waiting for the autopsy reports to understand the cause of death,” he said.Inspector Satish Kumar, SHO, Division Number 3 police station, said they will initiate further action after receiving the autopsy reports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/friends-found-dead-in-ludhiana-canal-families-allege-murder/story-hCMYFh8D39FRggmYGsDRSN.html
31-05-2020||City||Liquor vend employee robbed of ₹9,000 at gunpoint in Ludhiana||Posing as customers, two men thrashed a liquor vend employee and robbed him of Rs 9,000 at gunpoint in Mianwal village of Meharban, Ludhiana, on Saturday night. While fleeing from the spot, the accused locked up the victim inside the vend.The complainant, Gurmeet Singh of Behlolpur village, Machhiwara, told the police that he worked as a salesman at the liquor vend of Sohan Lal Kundra and Dhillon Group in Miyanwal village.On Saturday night, two men turned up and asked for beer. As he turned around, the duo barged into the vend and started beating him up. They flashed a gun and threatened to kill him. Forcibly taking Rs 9,000 from the vend, the accused fled after locking the store from outside.ASI Sanjiv Kumar, who is investigating the case, said a case under Section 379-B (snatching) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the unidentified accused. Police are scanning CCTV cameras installed in the area to identify the accused.SIMILAR CASES RECENTLYMay 27: Four assailants beat to death the owner of a liquor tavern in Kaddon village, Doraha.April 1: A salesman at a liquor vend was hacked to death at Chapki village. The assailants had fled after locking the vend from outside.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/liquor-vend-employee-robbed-of-9-000-at-gunpoint-in-ludhiana/story-ThXUBrlI0vZYjR9Md2PlbJ.html
31-05-2020||City||Time that govts crack down on profiteering in the name of Covid-19||New Delhi: A retired teacher, Arvind’s dental treatment at a neighbourhood private clinic had remained incomplete and pending for the last two months because of the sudden lockdown. So following relaxation in the lockdown rules, he visited his dentist to get the job completed. This time, his bill included two additional, unexpected items that he was not aware of: Rs 1200 for a pair of shoe covers, a pair of gloves, a head cover and a disposable gown and Rs 1500 for the Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) worn by the doctor. If you look at the price of disposable gloves, shoe cover, head cover and the gown online, the four items would not have cost the dentist more than Rs 250, so there was a neat profit of Rs 950 on them alone. What he was charging for the PPE too was also quite high. The PPE consists of goggles, face shield, mask (N-95 or surgical), gloves, overall gown, head cover and shoe cover. Their prices have come down since the beginning of the Covid crisis and according to the price list issued by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in the beginning of May, for example, it ranged between Rs 812 (with N95 mask) and Rs 660 (with three-ply mask). Even if the dentist had paid Rs 1,000 for it, he is still making a profit of Rs 500. When you are already charging for the dental services, why should you make a profit on the PPEs? That’s unscrupulous manipulation of the situation.But these profit margins pale into insignificance when you see the charges imposed in the name of Covid-19 by some of the private hospitals around the country -- the many complaints and tweets by anguished consumers bear testimony to the crass commercialisation and undue exploitation of consumers in these highly difficult times. A Kolkata resident, for example, said he was charged Rs 12,000 towards PPEs (for four people) and Rs 2,000 for masks (for four persons) during a 20 hour stay at a private hospital for treatment of vertigo. A Pune resident complained that he was asked to pay as much as Rs 9,000 per PPE or a total of Rs 27,000 per day for three PPEs. A Delhi resident said he was charged Rs 18,000 towards PPE for three days’ stay at a private hospital for a non-covid treatment. Many consumers say that they are now most worried about going to a hospital --- even if it is for a non-covid treatment, because of the exorbitant rates charged by hospitals for PPEs and such other Covid-related expenses. Hospitals say that their staff have to wear the PPE even while treating non-Covid patients, particularly because many of the patients might be asymptomatic, but carriers of the virus. That’s fair enough, but what is certainly not fair is the abuse of the situation to earn extra profits, at the cost of the consumer.In fact health insurance companies are also crying foul over the exorbitant rates charged by private hospitals vis-a-vis Covid-19, both in non-Covid as well as Covid cases, particularly the steep rates on PPEs and some related charges. Insurers point out that if, for example, there are ten patients in a unit, the cost of the PPE should be divided among them all. After all, nurses and doctors on duty will wear the same PPE and see all of them. It is therefore incorrect to charge each patient, the full cost of PPE. Insurers are also refusing to pay some of these charges, leaving even those with health insurance, in a deep crisis.It’s time that state governments came to the rescue of consumers and cracked down on private hospitals and clinics using Covid-19 to make a fast buck. There are enough laws in their armoury to do that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/time-that-govts-crack-down-on-profiteering-in-the-name-of-covid-19/story-P9mOUOx8kRyvhKQOgBNV3L.html
31-05-2020||Dehradun||With 158 new Covid-19 positive cases in Uttarakhand, tally increases to 907||With 158 new Covid-19 cases reported from Uttarakhand on Sunday, the tally of total cases increased to 907 in the state. A bulletin issued by the state health department mentioned that cases were reported from Dehradun (46), Haridwar (17), Nainital (31), Pauri Garhwal (6), Rudraprayag (1), Uttarkashi (7), Tehri (3), Almora (18), Champawat (4), US Nagar (20) and Chamoli (2). Most of the people who tested positive on Sunday had returned from Maharashtra, New Delhi, Gurugram, Prayagraj, Chennai, Bihar, Bengaluru, Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. Five cases were reported from US Nagar district are prisoners from Sitarganj prison, while three health workers and one police official tested positive from Champawat district. In Dehradun district, Uttarakhand tourism minister Satpal Maharaj tested positive for Covid-19 along with his two sons and two daughters-in-law on Sunday. Apart from this, 17 of his staff members have also tested positive for the virus on Sunday, said officials. The minister’s wife had tested positive on Saturday evening and had been shifted to AIIMS Rishikesh on Sunday.After the development, at least four other Cabinet ministers including chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and as many top bureaucrats including chief secretary and health secretary would be put in quarantine as Maharaj had attended the state Cabinet meeting with them on Friday at the state secretariat in Dehradun.Confirming the test report of Maharaj, Abhishek Sharma, officer on special duty to the tourism minister said, “Maharaj, his two sons and two daughters-in-law tested positive on Sunday along with 17 of his staff members. A total of 41 people including Maharaj and others who came in contact with his wife, were put in quarantine and tested for the virus infection as per the health norm on Saturday itself. The remaining have tested negative.”The districts of Nainital (260), Dehradun (256), Haridwar (83) Udham Singh Nagar (82) and Tehri Garhwal (77) are the districts with the highest number of cases in the state.The infection rate in the state stands at 3.43% while the rate of recovery is 12.72%. A total of 102 people had recovered in the state till Sunday. On Sunday, a 20-year-old Covid-19 positive man had also died at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh, two days after he tested positive.Harish Mohan Thapliyal, public relations officer of AIIMS Rishikesh said that the 20-year-old boy had been admitted to the hospital on May 27 for a procedure and he had tested positive for Covid-19 on May 29.“The boy who was a resident of Shyampur area had been electrocuted last month when a part of his body had to be amputated. On May 27, he was admitted to the hospital again as he developed an infection. Before the procedure, his samples were taken for Covid-19 testing and he tested positive on May 29 and he died on Sunday morning,” said Thapliyal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/with-158-new-covid-19-positive-cases-in-uttarakhand-tally-increases-to-907/story-LzABgbbChpl5L1MDggpIvN.html
31-05-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka extends lockdown till June 30, records highest surge in cases in a day||Karnataka on Sunday extended the lockdown imposed on the state due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak but with a broad array of relaxations for areas outside containment zones. The extension comes on the day state registered single biggest jump in Covid-19 positive cases in a day. The spike has resulted due to the recent influx of migrants’ from Maharashtra, India’s worst-hit state, amounting to nearly 90 per cent of the new cases recorded. Starting June 8, in line with MHA suggestions, the state has decided to open up religious places for public worship. The new set of relaxations also permit re-opening of hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services apart from shopping malls from that day onwards for all areas outside the containment zones.In the list of areas that remain inaccessible in this stage of lockdown, the state government has decided to keep schools, colleges, training and coaching institutions shut till the end of June. Cinema halls, gyms, metro rail, bars and auditoriums, public swimming pools, international air travel of passengers will also be barred for usage across the state. In the containment zones, only essential services would be permitted. As for curfew, Karnataka government has followed Centre’s footsteps and decided to observe the shutdown from 9 pm to 5 am daily with all non-essential movement restricted.The state is continuing with protective measures from the previous lockdown, which include wearing masks, maintaining social distance, banning consumption of tobacco and liquor in public places, limiting only 50 people in marriage and fine on spitting in public places. The state government’s order also mentions screening and hygiene, frequent sanitisation, staggering of work hours and encouraging work from home.Even as the government announced these new rules, the state grappled to contain the count of Covid-19 affected as it registered the highest ever single day jump in new cases. 299 new Covid-19 positive cases have been registered on Sunday, taking the tally to 3,221 cases which includes 1,218 discharged persons and 51 deaths.The large spike was primarily attributed to migrants in the state returning from Maharashtra with 90 per cent of the new cases having travel history to the neighbouring state. Yadgiri, Raichuru, Mandya, Bidar and Hassana continued to account for the bulk of new cases as well as the total number of cases in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-extends-lockdown-till-june-30-records-highest-surge-in-cases-in-a-day/story-0DJ2rnNPna2vtbwwCVnQ3M.html
31-05-2020||Mumbai||Police probe anti-national activities by illegal telephone exchange in Govandi||The Mumbai crime branch during an inquiry into the illegal international telephone exchange busted on Saturday, learnt that the arrested accused Sameer Alwari, 38, who was operating the exchange in Govandi, had travelled to Nepal earlier and was in touch with several people from Nepal, Gulf and European countries for more than five years. The police have also been inquiring about his financial transaction. Alwari was produced in the court on Sunday and has been remanded to police custody till June 9. Alwari was arrested on Saturday after the Military Intelligence unit found several calls were coming to Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) from abroad but the numbers were Indian. The calls that were coming from abroad were landing in the illegal telephone exchange in Govandi and later they were diverted to J&K showing the Indian numbers, said deputy commissioner of police Akbar Pathan of the crime branch.The two mobile numbers were traced to Govandi. These two numbers were kept under surveillance. All the calls received by the parallel exchange were made from abroad, added officer. Apart from Mumbai crime branch, the central agencies are also probing if a terror or spy network was operating using multiple SIM boxes as several calls were made to defence establishments in J&K, added official.Following information, the Mumbai crime branch’s unit 6 conducted raid in Govandi in Alwari’s residence and arrested him. During raid police seized a total of five SIM boxes, of which one was inactive, and have also recovered 223 SIM cards, 10 mobile phones, a laptop modem, connection board and batteries in the raid.Alwari was previously arrested in Thane in 2017 for similar crimes. After scrutinising the number and its call records it was found Alwari made and received several calls from other countries like Nepal, several countries from the Gulf and Europe. The accused would illegally convert voice-over-internet telephony (VoIP) calls from abroad into a local call through the illegal international gateway.A SIM box routes international calls as local calls, allowing the box operator to bypass international rates charged by local mobile network operators. The SIM boxes are fitted with hundreds of GSM SIM cards procured using fake IDs.There is a possibility that the parallel exchange suspected to be used for anti-national activities by unfriendly nations.In February this year, the crime branch has busted a similar racket operating from Noida in Uttar Pradesh and Changaramkulam in Kerala. Police seized a total of eight SIM boxes and recovered 686 SIM cards from the raids in the two cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/police-probe-anti-national-activities-by-illegal-telephone-exchange-in-govandi/story-b1zepHJU7JMW1hiFiax15H.html
31-05-2020||City||J&K records 105 fresh Covid-19 infections, tally rises to 2,446||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 105 fresh Covid-19 infections on Sunday, taking the total number of cases in the Union territory to 2,446, officials said.Of the new cases, 90 are from Kashmir and 15 from Jammu division, officials said.The fresh infections were reported in seven districts of the Kashmir valley, taking the tally in the division to 1,943. With 24 new cases, the highest jump was in Anantnag while 17 more people tested positive in Kulgam followed by Baramulla, Budgam and Kupwara with 15, 11 and 10 cases respectively. There were single digit jumps in other districts of the Valley.“50 out of the 510 samples tested at CD Hospital were found to be positive. Among these, 16 are pregnant women, 10 from Baramulla, five from Kulgam and one from Anantnag,” said J&K nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Salim Khan. “An employee of the hospital has also tested positive,” he added.In Jammu division, new cases were recorded in Jammu, Ramban, Kathua, Samba and Rajouri districts, taking the division tally to 503.Also, nineteen more patients were discharged on Sunday—three from Jammu division and 16 from Kashmir. So far, 927 people have recovered in J&K. At present, active cases in Kashmir stand at 1,111 and 380 in Jammu division.This is for the fifth day in a row that more than 100 people tested positive for the virus in a day. The biggest single-day spike of 177 cases was reported on Saturday while there was an increase of 128 new infections on Friday. The first Covid-19 case in the UT was detected on March 09.So far, 28 patients have died in J&K—25 in Kashmir division and three in Jammu division.Till date, 1.72 lakh people in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance — 38,572 in home quarantine, 45 in hospital quarantine and 46,419 under home surveillance. Besides these, 86,289 people have completed their 28-day surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-records-105-fresh-covid-19-infections-tally-rises-to-2-446/story-lRDxN2RCl6o7USrClbGYvK.html
31-05-2020||City||Real estate agent held for duping migrants||A 61-year-old real estate agent, Satyanarayan Sharma, was arrested by the Tulinj police on Saturday for allegedly duping scores of migrants with a promise of sending them to their native place in Uttar Pradesh from Vasai Road station. Around 10 to 15 migrants have complained to the police stating that each of them was charged Rs 3,000 for the 40-hour trip. A video clip of the accused promising them the trip has been sent to the Tulinj police. Four more are absconding in the case.Sharma had assured migrants that he will send them to their native place in Jaunpur, Gorakhpur and other UP cities, without the vital e-permits, as mandated by the Palghar collector. Many migrants fell for the trap and they each paid cash to the agent, said D Patil, PI, Tulinj police station. Sharma also told them to carry their Aadhar card just in case the Railway authorities demanded it en route, said Patil. The accused told the migrants that they will be issued their tokens at Nalla Sopara from where a bus will take them to Vasai Road station to board the train, said a police officer.The accused claimed he has been falsely implicated and had returned the money to the migrants, but we don’t believe him as we are probing further, said Patil. We have to be careful as the accused is suffering from diabetes and blood pressure ailments and he is a senior citizen, said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/real-estate-agent-held-for-duping-migrants/story-zQVaqXvmoYChRuD4KujJkM.html
31-05-2020||Mumbai||Mission Begin Again: What’s allowed, what’s not in Maharashtra||Maharashtra, which continues to be India’s worst-hit state by the Covid-19 pandemic with more than 65,000 cases extended the lockdown on Sunday till June 30 even as it eased restrictions for a phased resumption of activities under the Mission Begin Again as part of Unlock 1.Here is a look at what is allowed under the Mission Begin Again:All markets, market areas and shops, except malls, will be allowed to function from June 5 on odd-even basis.All private offices can operate with up to 10 per cent their employee strength as per the requirement from June 8 with others working from home.This will exclude Covid-19 containment zones.Outdoor physical activities like morning walks, cycling will be allowed.Self employed persons like plumbers, electricians, pest control staff and technicians will be allowed to work, but will have to follow social distancing norms.Automobile garages can also function and customers can visit them with prior appointment.These activities will be permitted in the red zones of Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), including Mumbai, Solapur, Pune, Aurangabad, Malegaon, Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon, Akola, Amravati, Nagpur. These activities will not be allowed in containment zones.What is not allowed under Mission Begin Again:Schools, colleges, educational, training, coaching institutions.International air travel, except as permitted by the Union ministry of home affairs.Passenger movement by trains and domestic air travel unless specifically allowed through separate orders and standard operating procedure.Cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars and auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places.Social, political, sport, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions and large congregations.Religious places and places of worship.Barber shops, spas, saloons, beauty parlours.Shopping malls, hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services.On Saturday, the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said Unlock-1 will begin from June 8 under which the nationwide lockdown that started on March 25 will be substantially relaxed, including opening of shopping malls, restaurants and religious places, even as strict restrictions will remain in place till June 30 in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mission-begin-again-what-s-allowed-what-s-not-in-maharashtra/story-S4Q20Mo0DTncWPVNiAME1J.html
31-05-2020||Mumbai||42-year-old arrested for killing security guard in Malad||Goregaon police on Saturday arrested a 42-year-old man for allegedly murdering a 37-year-old security guard by firing at him with a pistol, at an open plot near a mall in Malad (West) on Thursday night. Maheshkumar Thakur, inspector, crime, Goregaon police confirmed the arrest. The arrested accused Santosh Kalambe is a resident of Prem Nagar in Goregaon (West). The victim Rakesh Yadav, was a security guard posted at the plot.According to Malad police the incident took place around 8pm. A senior police officer said, “The accused Kalambe killed Yadav over a personal enmity.” The officer said that over an unknown reason, the Yadav had assaulted Kalambe’s brother, hence he was seeking revenge. Kalambe went to the spot and got into an argument with Yadav and shot him dead. Kalambe has a past criminal record. Before committing the murder Kalambe had fired one round in air to test the weapon in his area on Thursday. The bullet hit the window pane of a flat on the 15th floor of Anmol building in Prem Nagar, owned by one Manoj Sinha. As the test fire by Kalambe could have led to someone’s death, the Goregaon police have also booked him for attempt to murder. The Malad police will seek custody of Kalambe from court to interrogate him in the murder case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/42-year-old-arrested-for-killing-security-guard-in-malad/story-VOnVRI5QNEPeE3ZvC5AJ5O.html
31-05-2020||Kolkata||Biggest single-day spike of 371 Covid-19 cases in Bengal; tally at 5,501||West Bengal on Sunday registered the highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases, with 371 more testing positive for the disease, the health department said.The total number of coronavirus cases in the state currently stood at 5,501 in the state, while active cases rose to 3,027, the department said.Eight people have succumbed to the disease in the last 24 hours -- seven from Kolkata and one from neighbouring North 24 Parganas -- raising the death toll to 245.During the same period, 187 people were discharged from different hospitals, taking the number of recoveries in the state to 2,157.Of the 371 fresh cases, 72 are from the metropolis, 60 from North 24 Parganas, and 47 from Howrah, the health department said in its bulletin.At least 9,354 samples were tested for Covid-19 since Saturday evening. The number of samples examined so far climbed to 2,03,751, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/biggest-single-day-spike-of-371-covid-19-cases-in-bengal-tally-at-5-501/story-LHUOyoqP87VZYJvbWOlanJ.html
31-05-2020||Mumbai||Nisarga, first tropical cyclone since 1891 that may hit Maharashtra coast during June||As the India Meteorological Department (IMD) confirmed on Sunday that weather system in the Arabian Sea would intensify into a tropical cyclone, experts said it would be a rare event for Mumbai and Maharashtra coast in June.As per IMD’s Cyclone E-Atlas, a repository that tracks tropical cyclones and weather depressions over the north Indian Ocean since 1891, no weather system has turned into a cyclone and made landfall near Mumbai or along the Maharashtra coast during June. “Only two depressions, in 1948 and 1980, have come close but never turned into a tropical cyclone during June, indicate records,” said Akshay Deoaras, an independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University of Reading, UK. “Stronger than usual winds and rain are expected at the coast of Maharashtra on June 2 evening and in the first half of June 3. As the warning period will be less, disaster preparedness in coastal areas is immediately advisable,” he added.While IMD is yet to declare the landfall site for the cyclone, private weather forecasting agency Skymet said landfall is expected over north Maharashtra and south Gujarat border. “It will be a cyclonic storm that will move rapidly over these regions leading to intense showers but the weather system will not intensify into a severe or extremely severe cyclone. South Gujarat and north Konkan, including Mumbai, will receive maximum rain on June 3 and the situation will improve thereafter,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president (meteorology and climate change), Skymet, adding that rain over the city can cause localised flooding.According to weather models, rain will commence over the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) from June 1, mainly in the form of passing showers. On June 2 and the first half of June 3, there will be persistent rainfall along with winds. “The highest intensity is expected between June 2 evening and the morning of June 3. The weather will start normalising from the second half of June 3, after which mostly clear skies and humid weather conditions will continue in Mumbai,” said Deoras.He added it was still unclear whether the weather system would finally develop into a tropical cyclone. “Though there is a consensus among weather models regarding the intensification and track of this low-pressure system, there is considerable uncertainty regarding the low-pressure’s peak intensity. Only the very recent forecasts have suggested the formation of a strong tropical cyclone,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/nisarga-the-first-tropical-cyclone-that-may-hit-state-coast-during-june-since-1891/story-X0W0bKbLYBG7qmadkmjhhM.html
31-05-2020||City||Release pending salaries of guest faculties in HPU: Trade union to HP govt||Centre of Indian Trade Union (CITU) on Sunday demanded that the state government should immediately release pending salaries from February 2020 to May 2020 of at least 100 professors working as guest faculties at the Himachal Pradesh University (HPU), Shimla, Regional Centre, Dharamshala and HPU Centre of Evening Studies, Shimla. CITU has alleged that the state government is exploiting these professors by not paying them the pending salaries.CITU state president Vijendra Mehra said, “As per the University Grants Commission (UGC), these professors should be paid Rs 1,000 per lecture but in institutes like Regional Centre, Dharamshala, they are only getting Rs 500 per lecture. Likewise, these professors should get Rs 50,000 maximum salary as per UGC rules but they are only being paid Rs 25,000 salary.”“These professors are conducting online classes during the COVID-19 lockdown. However, they have not been given their salaries from February to May,” Mehra said.He said it is a violation of notifications and orders issued by the Centre on March 20 and March 29, 2020, according to which salary of an employee working in government, semi-government and private sector cannot be deducted or withheld.CITU has demanded immediate intervention in this matter by the state government and HPU administration to protect financial and emotional securities of the professors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/release-pending-salaries-of-guest-faculties-in-hpu-trade-union-to-hp-govt/story-za4107yi77hmsi3lqnSkhN.html
31-05-2020||City||Curfew extended in Himachal till June 30 with relaxations||The curfew has been extended in Himachal Pradesh till June 30 to contain the coronavirus pandemic with certain relaxations in the movement of public transport and operation of hotels.After reviewing the situation at a high-level meeting here, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur announced curfew relaxation from 6 am to 8 pm daily.CM said that since inter-district buses would start plying from Monday, social distancing in the buses and at bus stands must be ensured.He said that the district magistrates and superintendents of police would provide adequate police force for crowd management and law and order maintenance at all bus stands.He added that that buses will not be allowed to ply with more than 60% occupancy and the drivers, conductors and passengers would follow all the safety protocols of the health department.“Hoardings must be installed at bus stands and other places to motivate people to maintain social distancing and use face masks besides adequate arrangement for announcements through public address system,” he said.CM said that the inter-district movement of people of the state would be allowed without any pass.However, passes would be required for interstate movement.He said that the people coming from other states would be placed under quarantine and those coming from red zones would be kept in institutional quarantine. People coming from other areas would be kept in home quarantine.He said that the persons in institutional quarantine would be allowed to go home if they test negative for Covid-19.He said that more than 1.60 lakh Himachalis stranded in various parts of the country have reached the state since April 25.He said that the representatives of Panchayati Raj Institutions must be involved in a big way to keep track of the people arriving from other parts of the country. He said that they should also motivate the people to strictly follow the norms of home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/curfew-extended-in-himachal-till-june-30-with-relaxations/story-uUZtDm2E4kccBueUs3J9rO.html
31-05-2020||City||Highway infra boost worth Rs15 lakh crore in two years: Gadkari||PUNE The centre is planning to construct highways estimated to be worth Rs 15 lakh crore in next two years in a bid to boost the highway infrastructure projects in the country, said Nitin Gadkari, union minister for road transport and highways, during a webinar organised by Mahratta Chambers of Commerce Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA), Pune on Sunday.The minister was replying to an input specified by Pradeep Bhargava, president, MCCIA, who in representation requested the minister to infuse funds to the tune of Rs 2 lakh crore in highways construction sector as part of infrastructure upgradation programme.“My target is to carry out highway construction work estimated to worth 15 lakh crore. We want to increase highways revenue income which will be increased up to Rs one lakh crore as toll income from the highways,” said Gadkari during the webinar.“Yesterday (on Saturday), we got a loan from a foreign bank to be infused in infrastructure projects. We are in talks with big banks and have 400 infrastructure development projects for which RBI has given its in-principle approval for providing finance for the same. Our focus is enhancing the purchasing power, increasing market liquidity which is necessary to accelerate the economy,” he said.Stress on increasing the liquidityGadkari said, “The current situation is a blessing in disguise as nobody wants to trade with China. Japan has already declared its intentions regarding seeking foreign investments. How we bring foreign capital and investment in India needs to be thought out.”“Similarly, upgradation of technology is also important. We need to convert problems into opportunities. During the lockdown, we need to understand the art of living during Covid crisis till we get vaccines. We need to understand our limitations and move forward in these trying times,” Gadkari said.An additional loan of Rs3 lakh crore for MSME sectorThe minister pointed out that the additional loan of Rs 3 lakh crore released by the banks without collateral would help the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME ). During the webinar, Prashant Girbane, director-general, MCCI, raised issues related to cash flows, delayed payments and migrant labourers as the cause of concern before the chambers. To this, Gadkari said the government has recently announced a slew of measures including making available liquidity.“Six lakh MSMEs will be covered and two lakh MSMEs will benefit from the same. Whatever outstanding which needs to be paid is from government undertakings, state undertakings and major industries. We have issued instructions for immediate release the funds and states too have been instructed. We have requested that small industrialists must be given money first.”“It is incorrect that industries are completely dependent on migrant labourers when in actuality it is only 20 per cent. Then, start the industries from thirty per cent and the numbers will increase. Give a letter to the collector and try to bring back the migrant workers by winning their confidence,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/highway-infra-boost-worth-rs15-lakh-crore-in-two-years-gadkari/story-TmgIvVXV8QtEaKw9VtrUeM.html
31-05-2020||City||#CycloneNisagra 6 NDRF teams from Pune deployed in 5 coastal districts||PUNE: Six teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been deployed in five coastal districts of Maharashtra as cyclone-conditions were reported from the Arabian Sea. “In view of the developing cyclone situation in the Arabian Sea, six teams of NDRF Pune are being deployed in Maharashtra. Apart from these, three teams of NDRF are already on standby in Mumbai,” said an official of the NDRF.The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned of Cyclonic storm ‘Nisarga’, raising a pre-cyclone alert in Maharashtra and Gujarat.Of the six teams, two teams are deployed in the Palghar district, and one team each in Thane, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts.Two teams of NDRF Pune were also deployed in West Bengal to rescue people from the effects of Cyclone Amphan. The teams were airlifted from Pune on May 21||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cyclonenisagra-6-ndrf-teams-from-pune-deployed-in-5-coastal-districts/story-5nH4xK5QKNsb4rHYnkFaNK.html
31-05-2020||City||Government offices in Himachal to function with 100% staff from Monday||The government offices in Himachal Pradesh will function with 100% staff from Monday onwards, an order issued by additional chief secretary (health) RD Dhiman on Sunday stated.The order will not be applicable to offices located in the containment zones and educational institutions. All educational institutions will continue to remain closed till June 15. Earlier, the government offices were operating with 50% staff. Timings of arrival and departure of employees will be staggered to prevent overcrowding. The first group will arrive at 10:00am and leave at 5:00pm. The second group will arrive at 10:30am and leave at 5:30pm.“Provision of thermal scanning, hand wash and sanitiser will be made at all entry and exit points,” the order reads.Electronic modes of communication will be adopted to optimum use. Frequent sanitisation of the entire workplace, common facilities and points that come in human contact will be done and wearing of face masks will be mandatory. In-charge of the workplace will ensure proper social distancing.“Employees who develop flu-like symptoms, fever or respiratory problem may be advised to proceed on paid leave and get the prescribed treatment/home quarantine. Pregnant women and employees with underlying medical conditions may be advised to take extra precaution,” the order states.Those having Covid-19 symptoms will be sent to the treatment facility or institutional quarantine, marked for the purpose, in consultation with the local administration. Use of Aarogya Setu app is mandatory for all employees.Employees have also been advised not to believe and spread rumours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/government-offices-in-himachal-to-function-with-100-staff-from-monday/story-F7Ubrp9JW4HLq87rnXJeBM.html
31-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi records highest single-day spike of 1,295 Covid-19 cases, tally crosses 19k-mark||Delhi on Sunday recorded its highest single-day spike of 1,295 Covid-19 cases, taking its overall count of coronavirus infections to over 19,000. The total number of Covid-19 patients in the national capital now stand at 19,844. Delhi has now reported over 1,000 cases of coronavirus disease for four days in a row. On Saturday, 1,163 cases were recorded , on May 29, there was an addition of 1,106 new cases.while on May 28, 1,024 new cases were added. Of the total 19,844 cases on Sunday, 10,983 were active – those still undergoing treatment for the infection, while 8,478 patients had recovered / discharged. The city reported 13 more deaths from the disease on Sunday and the cumulative death toll has now risen to 473. The spike in Covid-19 infections came on a day when the Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government sought an immediate assistance of Rs 5,000 crore from the Centre to pay salaries to its employees and meet its expenses, saying its revenues have dried up during the lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the finance portfolio, said during a virtual press conference that he had written to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman for help, adding that the Delhi government has not received the fund sanctioned to states under the Disaster Relief Fund.“We reviewed the Delhi government’s revenue and its minimum expenses. We need around Rs 3,500 crore every month just to pay salaries and bear office expenses. In the last two months, GST collection was Rs 500 crore each and combining that with other sources, the government has Rs 1,735 crore,” Sisodia said during a press conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-1-295-covid-19-cases-tally-crosses-19k-mark/story-CafJ3ISVqcoyJLqq8zt3UO.html
31-05-2020||City||Sikh community in J&K demands six assembly seats, implementation of minority commission||Sikh organisations, including the state Gurdwara Prabhandak Committee and Jammu district Prabhandak Committee, on Sunday demanded six assembly seats and implementation of minority commission to ensure political reservation and benefits to the community in Jammu and Kashmir.While addressing mediapersons here, National Conference leader TS Wazir said, “Since the Delimitation Commission has set the process into motion, we demand that the Sikh community must get political representation. The community migrated from Pakistan in 1947 and was settled in Nowshera, Udhampur, Kathua, Rajouri and Poonch districts but we have not been given any political representation.”“We have no political voice. We had a MLA in 1987 from Gandhi Nagar assembly constituency and since then there has been no representation. We request Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Delimitation Commission to do justice with us.” Wazir also demanded minority commission in Jammu and Kashmir. “Why is the Centre reluctant in setting up a Delimitation Commission? Why minorities are being deprived of the benefits in J&K,” he said.While Muslims constitute 68.31% of the total population of erstwhile J&K state as per Census 2011, Hindus comprise 28.44%, Christian 0.28%, Sikh 1.87%, Buddhist 0.90% and Jain 0.02 %.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sikh-community-in-j-k-demands-six-assembly-seats-implementation-of-minority-commission/story-L8Ne8urFCZKTvUV2nJRDYN.html
31-05-2020||City||HP emergency helpline received more than 46,000 calls since lockdown first started in March||Over 46,570 calls have been received in helpline numbers established in the State Emergency Operations Centre from March 24 to May 23, of which 46,007 calls were made for obtaining different types of information including that related to Covid-19, registration process, quarantine period, social distancing. As many as 563 calls have also been made to make people aware of these helpline numbers.Thousands of calls were also being received in the centres established in the district. About 8,704 calls have been received in the Kullu district, which is the maximum number of calls for acquiring information. Apart from this, 2,098 calls were made in the emergency room in Chamba district, 2,042 in Sirmaur, 1,825 in Hamirpur, 700 in Solan, 526 in Una, 509 in Kinnaur, 416 in Mandi, 241 in Bilaspur and 15 in Lahaul-Spiti.A spokesperson of the state government said that most of the calls were received to return to the state, to gain information on home and institutional quarantine rules, Covid-19 tests, e-pass, availability of medicines and information related to red, orange and green zone. The benefit of this facility is being extended to senior citizens, migrant labourers, especially those suffering from chronic diseases. The government has taken several steps in providing assistance to the people of stranded in various parts of the state, in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. In order to extend assistance to stranded Himachalis, the government has established emergency operations centres at state and district level, as a measure to provide support to people of the state, he said Toll-free number-1077 has been set up in emergency operating centres of all districts of the state. This number remains active for 24 hours. The success of these helpline numbers can be gauged from the fact that so far thousands of people have reached their problems by calling on these numbers and the state government has also provided relief to the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-emergency-helpline-received-more-than-46-000-calls-since-lockdown-first-started-in-march/story-sReE1mxf1DZbWVhzVlKrMN.html
31-05-2020||Mumbai||In Maharashtra’s Mission Begin Again, shops, markets allowed to open on odd-even basis||The Maharashtra government on Sunday extended the lockdown in the entire state till June 30 and has named the extension as ‘Mission Begin Again’, according to a government statement. This comes a day after the Centre released guidelines on lockdown 5.0 which is being billed as ‘Unlock 1’. The phase will see major relaxations in lockdown restrictions across the country, except in Covid-19 containment zones.From June 5, all markets, market areas and shops, except malls and market complexes, will be allowed to function on an odd-even basis from 9 am to 5 pm, the Maharashtra government guidelines indicated.ALSO READ | Lockdown 5.0: These 13 cities will see stricter rules, more monitoringA few days later, from June 8, all private offices can operate with up to 10% strength as per need, with the remaining people working from home. Intra-district bus services will also be allowed while inter-district bus services will not be permitted.The Maharashtra government issued the guidelines on Sunday evening by coining phase wise relaxations as ‘Mission Begin Again’, which will be rolled out in three phases. Sports complexes and stadiums will be allowed from June 3, while shops can be open from June 5 and private offices can start operating from June 8. The relaxations are applicable for the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, the areas governed by nine municipal corporations, Pune, Solapur, Aurangabad, Malegaon, Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon, Akola, Amravati and Nagpur, the 19 corporations which have been earmarked as Red Zones. All the containment zones within Red Zones remain excluded from the relaxations.ALSO READ | In lockdown 5.0, international air travel, metro services to remain suspendedThe Non-Red Zone areas, which include the remaining eight municipal corporations and the rest of Maharashtra, mostly covering the rural areas have already been given greater relaxations. The private offices in all the Red Zones can now operate at 10% of their strength, with the remaining staff working from home. “The offices will have to take care of the transportation facilities for the employees as public transport has not been allowed in Red Zones,” said a government official. Government offices have been allowed to operate at 15% of their strength from the current permission given of 5%. All markets, market areas and shops, except malls and market complexes, have now been allowed to open on P1-P2 basis between 9am and 5pm. Shops on one lane will be allowed to open on odd dates while another lane be opened on even dates. The notification, however, warns that the failure of maintaining social distancing norms by such shops, markets will see closure of such commercial establishments immediately.The order also clarifies that cycling, jogging, running in playgrounds, beaches, society premises and open spaces is now allowed by maintaining social distancing. It has also allowed self-employed commercial activities like plumbers, electricians and plumbers in Red Zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-announces-lockdown-relaxations-calls-it-mission-begin-again/story-NRN3b66Vgy9kGHliTj2sMJ.html
31-05-2020||City||Lockdown restrictions extended in J&K till June 8||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Sunday extended the coronavirus lockdown till June 8 in the Union territory without any further relaxations. This comes as the Centre on Saturday announced that the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown in containment zones has been extended till June 30.An order issued by the J&K administration on Sunday stated that the lockdown guidelines issued on May 19 and 24 will continue to operate across the UT till June 8. It said the Centre’s new guidelines on some relaxations require a fresh assessment of the spread of COVID-19 in the UT.“Whereas these guidelines require State and UT governments to assess the current spread of the COVID-19 pandemic and based on this assessment, prohibit certain activities outside the containment zones or impose such restriction as deemed necessary, which will require a detailed assessment and consultations on the spread of COVID-19 in J&K,” the order said. “Lockdown 4.0 is pretty much relaxed. So, it has been extended. However, shopping malls, multiplexes, restaurants, schools, colleges and gymnasiums will remain closed,” said a top official, on condition of anonymity. “Quarantine rules by and large will also remain the same i.e 100% testing of returnees followed by 14-day administrative quarantine or paid quarantine. Following test reports, people are being dealt accordingly. Positive cases are being hospitalised and negative cases are being sent to 14-day home quarantine,” he said.Barber shops, salons, parlours have been allowed to open in all areas, except within the limits of municipal corporations in orange zones. All economic and courier services, agriculture, horticulture, animal husbandry and related activities, banks and financial activities are also permitted in the UT. Staggered domestic flights to and from Jammu and Srinagar; and trains to Jammu and Udhampur will also continue to ply from Delhi and other parts of the country while adhering to the SOPs announced by the Centre, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-restrictions-extended-in-j-k-till-june-8/story-17YJsgFR8mAYuWqgxAIbqM.html
31-05-2020||City||IGMC, Shimla to raise public awareness of heart attack symptoms||In order to increase awareness of heart attack symptoms among people, the department of cardiology at Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla (IGMC) has started a project to improve the use of life-saving treatment in peripheral hospitals of the district using tele ECG diagnostic support system and capacity building of the medical officers here. Doctors intend to improve the awareness of heart attack symptoms in the community through public awareness activities. There are about 25 hospitals in the Shimla district that are participating in the heart care model and doctors are hopeful that it will increase the delivery of life-saving treatment and save the lives of many patients.Head of the cardiology department at IGMC, Prakash Negi said that heart attack is one of the common causes of death in the country and in Himachal Pradesh. High death rates are mainly due to the non-availability of timely treatment, he said. An online data of the state heart attack registry has indicated that only about 30% receive life-saving medicines which are more effective if given in the first few hours of a heart attack. The reasons for the low use of these life-saving drugs are due to the late reporting of patients to hospitals. The delayed reporting to the hospital is mostly due to ignorance on the part of patients, he said.People’s participation in creating awareness about heart attack symptoms, guiding others about the importance of timely reporting to the nearest hospital will save many lives.Patients with heart attack commonly experience chest pain that may move to arms, neck, shoulder, and back. Many patients may also experience marked weakness suddenly, breathing difficulty, may have cold sweats. Some of the patients may also have vomiting, blackout, or loss of consciousness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/igmc-shimla-to-raise-public-awareness-of-heart-attack-symptoms/story-kXTAlpLkWvDxh3y3qPqGdP.html
31-05-2020||City||Heavy rainfall damages fruit crops in Himachal||Heavy rainfall along with hailstorm, thunderstorms and gusty winds for the last few days in Himachal Pradesh has damaged fruit crops, especially apples in Shimla, Kullu, Mandi and Kinnaur districts. Fruit Vegetable and Flower Growing Association president, Harish Chauhan, said, “The apples will not get the desired size and colour if rainfall continues. Recent hailstorms has also damaged fruits and vegetables. It is a bad sign for orchardists and farmers as they are already suffering due to the COVID-19 pandemic.”“An estimated loss of ₹800 crore to apple growers has been reported in the state,” he added.Heavy rain at isolated places in Bilaspur, Mandi and Una district and light to moderate rain was witnessed at most places in the state during the last 24 hours. Minimum temperatures were two to three degrees below normal while maximum temperatures were four to five degrees below normal.Yellow warning for middle hills on June 1 The state meteorological department had issued a yellow warning for middle hills on June 1.State MeT director Manmohan Singh said due to a fresh western disturbance, rainfall along with hailstorm and thunderstorms are very likely to continue throughout the state till June 6.Shimla witnessed 63.4mm rain and recorded 17.4°C maximum temperature on Sunday.Kufri received 8.0mm rain and recorded 14.0°C maximum temperature. The maximum temperature in Dalhousie was 12.3°C and Dharamshala 23.2°C. Solan, Bilaspur, Hamirpur and Nahan recorded 26.5°C, 24.0°C, 23.8°C and 27.4°C maximum temperatures respectively.With 6.9°C minimum temperature, Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was coldest while Una was the hottest at 27.0°C maximum temperature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/heavy-rainfall-damages-fruit-crops-in-himachal/story-ng2x0PakJzMs0HHGzUCJ6N.html
31-05-2020||Pune||Pune lacks squash infrastructure, says U-17 national champion||For two-time under-17 squash national champion Yoshna Singh who also scored 90 per cent in the Cambridge board examination recently, time management is the path to excellence. According to Singh, Pune lacks quality squash infrastructure in comparison to Mumbai. “In Pune, there aren’t a lot of coaching facilities for squash. I train under Abhinav Sinha who is from Mumbai. I am glad that we have a squash court at Brahma Sun city, where I practice,” Singh said.With her coach in Mumbai, Singh takes online coaching sessions and she is helped by her father and fitness trainer Sandeep Narwade to maintain her focus on the game.“My father first learned the sport by watching videos on YouTube and now he helps me train. If the tournament is scheduled in Mumbai then I have sessions with my coach,” Singh said who is ranked fourth in the under-19 Squash Rackets Federation of India (SRFI).Singh had a tough 2019 since she had to appear for Class 12 exams and also focus on her training. Singh who studies at Vibgyor high, NIBM, excelled in her IGCSE A level (12th Grade) exams with the first rank in commerce stream and third across all streams.“I had planned my year in such a way, where I had divided months for training and studying. My school Vibgyor high, NIBM, has been very supportive always when it comes to my training. With their help, I managed everything well and secured good marks in my exam,” she said.Singh will be now moving to an Ivy League college - the University of Pennsylvania, in the US for further studies.Along with studying, getting trained under top-class coaches for the next four years is on her mind right now.“It will be a completely different exposure as I will be playing with my college team and it will help me take my talent to a different level,” Singh said.Mumbai: Squash hub When it comes to squash, Mumbai dominates above other cities, since infrastructure is yet to get developed in smaller cities.“Mumbai is the hub of squash, players are also coming from other districts but since good training facilities are available in Mumbai, it is producing quality players,” Singh. saidIn the upcoming years, Singh will focus more on playing international tournaments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-lacks-squash-infrastructure-says-u-17-national-champion/story-RTxbI0wfErw61edVS7sBHM.html
31-05-2020||Pune||335 cadets of 138th National Defence Academy course graduate in Pune||The 138th course of the National Defence Academy (NDA) successfully passed out on Saturday at a ceremony conducted in the premier institution’s Habibullah Hall. The passing out ceremony was held indoors breaking away from the annual custom of having parents and distinguished guests from all three services in presence.NDA commandant Lieutenant General Asit Mistry presided over the function.A total of 335 cadets graduated from the premier academy. Of the 335, 226 were army cadets, 44 naval cadets, and were 65 air force cadets. After graduation, the NDA cadets are normally allowed leave before joining their respective service organisation. However, the cadets of 138 course will not be allowed leave for home and will head to their organisations directly.While the army cadets will head to the Indian Military Academy, the naval cadets will head to the Indian Naval Academy, and the air force cadets will head to the Indian Air Force Academy. Travel arrangements will be made by the academy.“It is a matter of pride for NDA that 20 cadets from friendly foreign countries (Bhutan, Tajikistan, Maldives, Vietnam, Tanzania, Mauritius, Afghanistan, Kyrgyzstan, Sri Lanka, Myanmar, Turkmenistan, Fiji, Uzbekistan, Sudan, Mongolia and Bangladesh) also form part of the passing out cadets,” read a statement from NDA.While Battalion Cadet Captain (BCC) Shivam Kumar won the President’s Gold Medal, BCC Mukesh Kumar won the President’s Silver Medal, and BCC Parth Gupta won the President’s Bronze Medal for standing third in overall order of merit. Of all the squadrons in the academy, the Kilo squadron bagged the ‘Chiefs of Staff Banner’ for their performance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/335-cadets-of-138th-national-defence-academy-course-graduate-in-pune/story-bw9JhJNRrKgAk2caRkmHjO.html
31-05-2020||Pune||YourSpace: Lockdown affecting health but exercise a must, say readers||Exercise and gym are an integral part of my life. It is as important as breathing or praying. Hence, the news of lockdown threw my routine off-track. While I did sulk for a day or so wondering what would I do for my fitness regime, within no time I planned a routine that didn’t require me to go outdoors. During the two months when the lockdown was imposed and jogging and walking weren’t allowed on the society premises, I indulged in cardio exercises, yoga, abs workout, and strength training. I have also done some crazy stuff like brisk-walking or jogging inside the house for 5-10 km, 100 suryanamaskars at a stretch, or covering 50 floors climbing up and down the stairs. As for my husband, who has been playing cricket for 3-4 hours every weekend since the past 12-13 years, the lockdown was upsetting. However, since we have a pet dog that needs daily walks, my husband’s exercise meant taking her for early morning and late evening walks within the society premises. My teenage daughter, an athlete, did indoor exercises like chin-ups on the pull-up bar, plank, or suryanamaskar. We have been indulging a lot in salads and seasonal fruits like watermelon, muskmelon and grapes to improve our immunity.Various reports have indicated that Covid-19 is going to be a part of our lives for another year or two. Does that mean we will shut ourselves for two years? The health experts say that the way to build immunity is by eating healthy food and exercising. I am glad that the state government has permitted physical exercise on society premises and public parks now. The fear of catching the virus is still there. But in my view, people should take all precautions like wearing mask, using sanitiser and maintaining social distancing, but they should go out and get their muscles moving by walking, jogging, running or cycling in the fresh air. If not, do indoor exercises. Bottom line is – stay active.Garima MishraLockdown kicks in mental stressI am a little more concerned about the indirect impact of lockdown on our mental health. Most of us have missed going to gym and daily walks. Some might have compensated for it by exercising at home. However, the feeling of being locked inside the house has also left many stressed. Whether voluntarily or by order, I cannot meet friends and family, cannot travel to places I want to, cannot be a part of social activities, and my business opportunities are also reduced during the last two months. Particularly, when I am self-employed and cannot expect a full or part salary when I don’t work. This is taking a toll on self-confidence, pushing many others like me towards an unhealthy state of mind, even depression. Words of wisdom and motivation do not help under such circumstances. If the lockdown is extended any further, the mental health of many will get beyond recovery. I am wondering how can one sustain their morale in these difficult times. Are there any exercises that we can continue at home to keep ourselves fit mentally until we are back to normal if we ever are going to be? Mandar ShindeMaintain healthy immune systemIn these Covid-19 times, which is full of negativity with bombarding of news related to the deadly virus on media, each passing day I have realised the importance of being positive and maintain a strong immune system and good health to keep the disease at bay. In fact, my family has been practicing yoga, pranayam, and other exercises to keep healthy and Covid-19 away during the lockdown period. We also take care to have healthy food. Chitra Mohodhome and office chores unendingThese two months have been specifically very horrible for working women like me with work from home deadlines and taking care of every family member during the lockdown. My 15-month-old child expects his mother should spend time with him. It is very difficult to fulfil the expectations of the office boss and family members during these times. My mental stress has increased and long discussions and meetings through online mode cause severe headache and issue of earache has started. I am unable to do any exercise, though few of my family members are able to do it. I am only trying to manage my office work and house chores. Unavailability of baby care facility and maid-housekeeping services makes my life more difficult during these months. Nalinee SuryawanshiChange your workout regimeI have been trying to workout on my terrace with bricks or stones as my weights, and tera bands. The steps of my building, of course, cannot replace what I can do on the ground or gym but is sufficient to tire me. The major challenge is to find creative ways to keep changing the routine of exercise, but is certainly doable since that is the need of the hour. Keeping the immunity strong is a must during this pandemic and it can be achieved with a mix of good exercise, good nutrition, and rest as well which is fairly doable.Roshan ShettyRegular exercise kept us freshI work at the science park in Savitribai Phule Pune University. I am actively working for popularisation, spreading awareness about science, making science exhibits and kits which are helpful for students at school as well as college. We are habitual of daily morning exercises at home, evening walks, and outdoor exercises. This is an important part of our daily routine before lockdown made me and my family to keep indoors. It was a struggle in the beginning for 3-4 days, but we found out the solution. We continued with daily morning exercises. The evening walk was done at home with restrictions. We increased breathing exercises along with playing indoor badminton. We did more dance practices which made us feel fresh. In the old days, people used to do all the work at home and keep their diet. Since all were home, it resulted in increased household work as well. The same thought we tried to implement. The increased exercises definitely kept us fresh and healthy, but we controlled and managed our eating schedule. Eating less sugary and fatty food and having fresh food is the key to be fit and fine. Harshada BabrekarMore bonding under lockdownThere were so many doubts when lockdown began initially, but it brought out the best in some people. People kept themselves busy with challenges and experimented with stuff in the kitchen, brought out budding artists. Everyone seems to have found some new interest that they never pursued and made an attempt to accomplish them. So in short, for my family as well it turned out to be a time where we could bond better. Keeping the kids occupied was a task initially which we now master without a doubt. Exercising in this period proved beneficial. Thanks to all the online classes we could keep ourselves occupied. So now I and my son spend our evenings dancing together, so playing his favourite sport cricket. Taking necessary precautions, but at the same time making the most of this time. Deepika Fernandes - ShewalePerformed yoga for energy, healthIt was a good life experience but sitting at home was a new type of learning to help the family in household work. It was difficult to sit at home every day. There was no outside life due to lockdown. We formed a small group in our society and exercised at home, performed yoga while maintaining social distancing. In the last two months, we have stayed energetic and healthy. Atul JainSuryanamaskar for better healthFor every individual, exercise plays a very important role in maintaining fitness and fight health-related problems. But now these two months of lockdown have restricted us from performing regular physical activities in the way it used to be done before. But, exercises such as yoga and suryanamaskar can be done regularly. I personally follow a regular routine of performing yoga and suryanamaskar to keep me and my family fit. Suryanamaskar comprises a series of twelve yogasanas performed in a sequence. It is a series of gentle flowing movements synchronized with breathing and can be performed on a mat at home. It is an independent and complete physical exercise that helps tone up the functioning of various systems in the body. It also improves circulation of the blood and reduced stress, calms the mind, removes lethargy, and makes our mind alert and increases the flexibility as well. Until the lockdown is lifted I personally believe it is important to keep ourselves fit and increase our immune systems by performing suryanamaskar regularly to fight this invisible enemy because it has been observed that the virus mostly affects the people with prior diseases. It is important that we remain calm and meditate to keep our minds peaceful. If we want to be happy and live a healthy life, we should perform suryanamaskar- the best exercise daily. Suvarna DeolankarIsolation period dedicated to fitnessI took lockdown as an opportunity to improve on my fitness rather than making it an excuse to not exercise. So, instead of the one hour morning walk and exercises on the bench of the jogging park, I planned out that time at home. I do 15 suryanamaskars followed by yoga and pranayama. In the evening, I used to be in the gym for an hour. Instead, now I sweep and mop the floor followed by exercises chalked out by Dr Pramod Tripathi and conclude with Art of Living’s Sudarshan kriya. To fight Covid-19, you need immunity and a strong upper body. My exercise regimen ensures that. Vinita DeshmukhExercise for a better lifeIf you are healthy then only can you be happy and make others happy. Exercises, yoga, and meditation make you feel better and stress out. Every morning a little time for yourself makes you fit and healthy. Yes, in lockdown we are not able to go out but my family is taking care of their health by playing indoor active games, morning meditation with yoga. It helps us to be happy and fresh for the entire day. Fresh and homemade food helps us to enjoy this lockdown happily as happiness is also the key to a healthy life. So be happy, healthy, and fresh with good and energetic food. This will help you survive from this lockdown period stress-free.Reshu AggarwaalLockdown, a necessary stepLife under lockdown has made every individual stays at home to be safe and prevent themselves from Covid-19. Staying home for more than 2 months now has made individuals lazy and lethargic. We cannot go out for morning or evening walks, gym, or any extracurricular activities which makes us stay fit and healthy. Lockdown has made to be home 24*7, hence with no other option left we have to do light workouts or yoga at home. However, looking at the current situation and an increased number of positive Covid-19 cases, this lockdown is necessary. I hope that the government is taking all the required steps to control Covid-19 cases and would definitely show some good results as far till now.Rohan GoyalOpportunity to improveAfter the Covid-19 pandemic led to a nation-wide lockdown in order to combat the situation, it has brought about several drastic changes in the way people use to interact and function. The social isolation norms have forced many to step away from their day-to-day activities, such as those who use to go out for the gym and other physical activities have to be at home. Apart from this, work from home has emerged as a new way to deliver work and this extended lockdown period can easily make people fall into bad habits, especially for those who are pre-diagnosed with health issues such as diabetes, cardiovascular and other health-related issues. With the uncertainty and changes in the way people live, we need to be more conscious of mental health. As there are several benefits related to positive mental well-being such as reduced anxiety and stress, clearer thinking and mood-improvement, self-esteem boost. This will tend to improve calmness in you.We all must take advantage of this lockdown and utilize the time to detox our mind and soul and also try to improve the bond with our relationships. We should always try to become a better version of us and the current situation is the best opportunity.Shalini SharmaYoga to burn caloriesLockdown severely restricted and made it obligatory to remain indoors. It is not possible to go jogging or walking. One has to be fit and burn calories, the best option I have adapted is yoga for 45 minutes every day in the morning. It increases my flexibility and improves my respiratory, energy, and vitality. Yoga has exploded all over the country. ​​​​Anoop Panjwani​​Outdoor activities will improve immunityIt has been more than 2 months of lockdown because of the Covid-19 pandemic.​​ The routine health activities like jogging, morning walk, gym, swimming, trekking have been completely stopped.​​ Senior citizens and other residents are demanding some guidelines to maintain health.​​ The basic outdoor activities will improve immunity and empower us to fight any kind of disease.​​​Akhil Singh​​||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/yourspace-lockdown-affecting-health-but-exercise-a-must-say-readers/story-liBF6B29ILHmYb7hyNO9EM.html
31-05-2020||Pune||Outgoing air passengers outnumber incoming flyers at Pune’s Lohegaon airport||The number of flyers leaving the city surpassed those landing at Lohegaon airport, as limited number of domestic flights resumed operations from May 25.On Saturday, 745 persons arrived through 10 flights, whereas 1,148 left the city through eight flights. As of May 30, 3,676 passengers arrived in Pune, while 7,563 flew out of the city. As per the numbers shared by Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh, for every one passenger who arrived in the city, two have left Pune.With the number of Covid-19 cases rising in the city and costly road travel, people have preferred to fly and most of them are returning to their native places, said an aviation expert.As per information shared by Singh, on May 25, the first day when the domestic flight services resumed across the country after almost two months, 672 passengers arrived in the city through nine flights while 985 left the city through eight flights. On May 26, 719 arrived in the city through 14 flights while 1,434 left the city through 14 flights; on May 27, 663 came into the city through 14 flights while 1,364 left the city through 13 flights and on May 28, 552 arrived in the city through 12 flights and 1,313 left the city through 12 flights.According to Dhairyashil Vandekar, an aviation expert, although airports have started functioning, they must streamline the state policies regarding airports and those arriving through flights. And since the first transmission of the virus in the country happened through flight, safety precautions and screening must be given highest priority.She said, “Pune is a commercial and education hub and so we have many who have migrated to the city, which is now a Covid-19 hotspot. So, it is obvious that people want to leave the city. Those leaving the city are the ones who did not find rail or road travel safe and can now travel via a flight which is not only the fastest means of transport, but also the safest.”“The state government must now come with a common policy for those arriving through flights from red zone districts instead of completely banning flights. The situation is still evolving and new developments will keep coming in. Also, in addition to thermal scanning the passengers, airports must also opt for pulse oxymeters to screen fliers,” Vandekar said.Train travellersAccording to officials, a total of 1.16 lakh people left Pune district via 91 trains since the lockdown began. A total of 37 trains carrying 47,000 passengers travelled to Uttar Pradesh, while 23 trains carrying 30,000 passengers travelled to Bihar. The remaining trains were scheduled to travel to various other states.Back to the skyDate arrival pax departure pax arrival flights departure flightsMay 25 672 985 9 8May 26 719 1,434 14 14May 27 663 1,364 14 13May 28 552 1,313 12 12May 29 525 1,390 13 12 May 30 745 1,148 10 8||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/outgoing-air-passengers-outnumber-incoming-flyers-at-pune-s-lohegaon-airport/story-VeLTPPlpGCZ9MlAOSdZHIL.html
31-05-2020||Kolkata||Private bus owners in West Bengal divided over resuming services||The West Bengal government has allowed inter-district movement of state transport undertaking and private bus services from Monday, but the private operators are divided over recommencing services with a lesser number of passengers owing to the social distancing norms.While the Bus Minibus Samannoy Samity on Sunday said that it will recommence services in some routes on an experimental basis, the Joint Council of Bus Syndicates said it will not be possible to run buses with only sitting capacity passengers on current fares as that would lead to losses.In a meeting of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicates on Sunday, it was decided that a memorandum will be given to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and Transport Minister Suvendu Adhikary on Tuesday, seeking formation of a regulatory body for revising fares, its general secretary Tapan Banerjee said.Rahul Chatterjee, secretary of Bus Minibus Samannoy Samity (coordination committee), another body of bus owners in the state, said that buses will be run on some routes in Kolkata and the districts from Monday on an experimental basis.They, however, demanded that the government consider an increase in fares so as to keep the services going without causing losses to the owners.“As it is, the buses have been idling since March 22.A lot of money has to be spent to make these roadworthy again.We seek the government waive road tax for the period that the buses have not been plying and also seek the Centre’s intervention in reducing insurance premium,” Chatterjee said.He said that the government should also provide its infrastructure for sanitising the buses at its various facilities and also provide face masks and gloves and hand sanitisers to the staff.The West Bengal government, in an order issued on Saturday, allowed intra-state (inter-district) movement of government and private buses from June 1, with passengers not more than the actual seating capacity of the bus.“No passenger shall be allowed to travel standing in the bus. All passengers shall wear face masks and gloves during the entire journey,” the order said.It has not said anything about restarting of inter- state bus services.West Bengal Transport Corporation is already running buses on 40 city routes, while SBSTC and NBSTC are running buses in the districts in south Bengal and north Bengal.All these STUs have already recommenced inter-district bus services from May 27.Private bus operators have stayed away from resuming services as their demands for increasing fares were not met by the state government.The private bus operators had demanded a nearly three-time hike in fares, claiming that carrying only 20 passengers at a time in each bus as per the government directive for maintaining social distancing norms owing to the coronavirus pandemic would lead to huge losses for them.The state government had earlier allowed only 20 passengers in a bus at a time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/private-bus-owners-in-west-bengal-divided-over-resuming-services/story-Xto6nkIOYtdHtGVJy3NrPM.html
31-05-2020||Chandigarh||17 more test positive for Covid-19 in Himachal, count mounts to 330||Seventeen more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Sunday, taking the state’s tally to 330.At present, active cases in the state stand at 208.Seven cases were reported from Kangra, four from Solan and one from Kullu.Out of 258 samples sent to the Central Research Institute (CRI), Kasauli, for testing on Saturday result of four came out positive on Sunday morning, chief medical officer, Solan, Dr NK Gupta said.Among those infected were two migrant workers from other states living in the Chandi area who recently returned to work in a cold storage unit. The third patient was from Nalagarh area, who had visited Pinjore and the fourth from Parwanoo who had visited Hyderabad.Patients from Nalagarh and Parwanoo who were under institutional quarantine, were moved to the Covid-care centre at Katha, Baddi.Meanwhile, seven people who returned from Delhi have tested positive for the virus in Kangra district. Three patients include two children aged 9 and 2 from Nurpur sub-division. Two infected people hail from Shahpur and one each from Dharamshala and Jawalmukhi, said Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati.All of them returned from Delhi on 27 May and were under institutional quarantine. They have been shifted to a Covid-care center at Bainjath.Besides, a 6-year-old child, whose family returned from Mumbai on May 24, has also tested positive. His mother is already undergoing treatment for the Covid-19 infection.Four people, including a woman, from Bhoranj sub-division of Hamirpur district also tested positive. Two returned from Delhi and two from Gautam Budh Nagar, UP. They were under institutional quarantine.One case reported from Kullu is a 65-year-old man from Nirmand. He returned from Delhi along with five members of his family on May 19.Himachal Pradesh has reported a second wave of cases since May 4 with 290 persons testing positive for the virus.So far, the state’s tally is 330 cases with five fatalities, including three men and two women.Around 90% of the cases reported since May 4 are those who returned to HP from other states.Hamirpur is the worst-hit district with 111 cases followed by Kangra with 87 cases. A total of 37 cases have been reported in Una, 30 in Solan, 20 in Chamba, 18 in Bilaspur, 12 in Mandi, nine in Shimla, four in Sirmaur, and two in Kullu.As many as 113 people have recovered in the state, so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/4-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-take-hp-s-tally-to-317/story-tAcoysxtO9KcISbvBo366M.html
31-05-2020||Jaipur||Unlock 1: Wildlife parks, zoos to reopen from June 1 in Rajasthan||All zoos, biological parks, wildlife sanctuaries and reserves will be reopened from June 1 in Rajasthan, the state’s forest department said on Sunday as it issued several guidelines for its personnel and tourists during the fifth phase of the coronavirus lockdown. The entry of tourists was restricted at zoos, biological parks, elephant villages, tiger reserves and other protected areas from March 18 in view of the coronavirus pandemic.Arindam Tomar, the chief wildlife warden, said a standard operating procedure (SOP) has been issued to be strictly followed for the management of tourists after the state government allowed such places to be reopened.The SOP has said tourists and personnel must undergo thermal screening, follow measures such as social distancing and wear masks and gloves. Tourists will have to stand at marked places and move as per the directions of the queue manager, it said.There will be no entry to any suspected Covid-19 patients to such places and they will be closed in case of overcrowding and disobedience of social distancing and other safety norms, the guidelines say.Sanitisers must be made available and cleaning and disinfection drill has to be undertaken at regular intervals in all areas frequented by visitors.The department has said digital payment must be given preference and zoos and parks must maintain visitor books carrying details of name, address and contact details of all tourists and other people.“Refusal of entry to any suspect COVID19 patient or person refusing to adhere to directions,” states the SOP.A ban on spitting or disturbing waterholes has also been imposed.The department said it has also taken confidence-building measures for tourists such as online ticket booking and sale counters for sanitisers and security kit. It said the validity period of entry tickets will be for a maximum period of four hours—except places where the time limit is already specified—and staff will be called on rotation.Places of worship inside these facilities will remain closed till further orders from the government, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/unlock-1-wildlife-parks-zoos-to-reopen-from-june-1-in-rajasthan/story-P2FUSbraALxceUlWvP6HJO.html
31-05-2020||Lucknow||Unlock 1 to see intra-state buses, taxis back in Uttar Pradesh, hints Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday indicated public transport will be allowed but mass gatherings will continue to remain banned in the fifth phase of the lockdown to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state.“We will issue the guidelines for Unlock1 in the state today after 2pm. Intra-state bus and taxi services will resume. Mass gatherings will remain prohibited,” Adityanath said according to news agency ANI.“Social distancing and masks are mandatory,” he added. The Union home ministry said on Saturday places of worship, shopping malls, and hotels and restaurants can open from June 8 as it released details of the first of a three-phase plan aimed at lifting stringent restrictions imposed over two months ago. The plan, called Unlock 1.0, also removes restrictions on inter- and intra-state travel. Lockdown 4.0 ends on Sunday.The Centre has empowered states and Union territories to identify containment zones in accordance with the health ministry’s guidelines. Local authorities can also identify buffer zones, which are areas adjoining containment zones, and impose restrictions.Adityanath had welcomed the Centre’s guidelines for Unlock 1 and said the state government would take necessary steps accordingly keeping in view the threat of infection in the fight against Covid-19.“New guidelines issued under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to end the nationwide lockdown being enforced in the view of the fight against Covid-19 in a phased manner is a welcome move. The Uttar Pradesh government will take necessary steps keeping in view the threat of corona infection,” Adityanath had tweeted in Hindi on Saturday.The state government said it will issue its guidelines for the lockdown 5.0 or ‘Unlock 1’ in accordance with the Centre’s guidelines on Sunday.“We are holding discussions on the Centre’s guidelines and state government will follow them. We will take a call on the issues that have been left to the states and issue the state government’s guidelines on Sunday,” said chief secretary RK Tiwari.Uttar Pradesh, which is India’s most populous state, reported 262 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease on Saturday, taking the state tally for coronavirus to 7701. There are been 213 deaths in the state so far.Till now, 4,651 Covid-19 patients have been discharged, including 241 who were discharged on Saturday. The number of active cases in Uttar Pradesh is 2837.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/unlock-1-to-see-intra-state-buses-taxis-back-in-uttar-pradesh-hints-yogi-adityanath/story-XNUGERXxo3k8WkRffd0TbL.html
31-05-2020||City||4 arrested after man dies in Assam road rage; second incident in a week||Police in Assam’s Jorhat district have arrested four people in connection with the death of a man on Friday after an alleged road rage incident, in the second such case in the state within a week.According to the police, Debashish Gogoi had gone with eight of his friends to Gabharu Parbat area in Mariani for sightseeing as well as a picnic on Friday.“The place where the youths had gone is located inside a tea garden and people of the area were upset at the spot becoming a hangout for people who came and made a mess,” Mrinal Talukdar, Jorhat’s superintendent of police, said.“When one security guard of the tea garden asked the youths to leave, they reportedly beat him and the former also retaliated. The manager of the tea garden reached the spot and asked the youths to leave after resolving the matter,” he added.While his friends left ahead of him, Gogoi and another friend who were on a scooter followed behind. They reportedly hit a woman resident of the tea-garden on their way back.“Local residents soon gathered at the spot and started beating up the youths. Debashish later succumbed to his injuries in hospital. We have arrested four persons in connection with the incident and are conducting further investigations,” said Talukdar.The four men, who have been arrested, are Ashok Saora, Radheyshyam Kurmi, Sachin Saora and Ashish Nayak.On May 24, a vegetable vendor Sanatan Deka died at Hajo in Kamrup district after he was assaulted by five people when his bicycle collided with a scooter. Police have arrested all the five accused—Faizul Ali, Eyusuf Ahmed, Abdul Jalil, Khabiruddin Ahmed and Ruhul Ali Ahmed—in connection with the death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-arrested-after-man-dies-in-assam-road-rage-second-incident-in-a-week/story-J0x5sjDI22Jw03HlXypC8K.html
31-05-2020||Jaipur||Industrialists in state voice discontent with govt stimulus package||More than 80 percent industrialists in Rajasthan, a majority of them owning micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), are dissatisfied with the centre’s stimulus package, FICCI has found in a survey.The online survey by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry or FICCI included 107 industry members, mostly of MSMEs in Jaipur, Jodhpur, Udaipur, Kota, Ajmer, Bhiwadi, Alwar and Bhilwara to capture the status of operations, feedback on migration of labourers and the Rs 29 lakh crore stimulus package announced by the centre recently.In the survey, 83.2% of respondents mentioned that the stimulus package was “not so effective”, 15% respondents found it “effective” and 1.8% found it “very effective”.Atul Sharma, director, FICCI Rajasthan state council, said most of the small and medium industries were looking at a relief package instead of a stimulus package. “These units are under financial burden as they are not getting any revenue, but there is cash outflow. So, they were looking at some relief in expenses and some kind of grants from the government,” he said.He said the industry association had apprised the state government and the centre of its demand before the package was announced. “The three main components of the package were waiver of fixed charges in electricity bills for the lockdown period, help in payment of salaries to workers in the lockdown and waiving interest on loans. However, these have not been met,” he said.According to the survey, 72% respondents said migration of labourers has affected their business.Sharma said the government’s recent initiative to create an online labour employment exchange is a good idea. “This is a good initiative and would help the existing and new industries in finding human resource as per their needs. There are many established portals for white collar jobs but this one is a great initiative for blue collar jobs,” he said.Almost 90 percent respondents in the survey said their capacity utilisation is below 50 percent. The survey found that 27.1% respondents are operating at less than 10% capacity, 32.7% respondents are doing capacity utilisation between 10% and 25%, 89.7% respondents are doing capacity utilisation of less than 50% and 2.8% respondents indicated capacity utilisation above 75%.Sharma said this is partly due to labour shortage, but mainly due to lack of demand.“There is no place to send the material to as there is no demand,” he said.Ashok Kajaria, chairman, FICCI Rajasthan State Council & CMD, Kajaria Ceramics Ltd said, “We hope Lockdown 5.0 or Exit 1.0 would bring more positive changes and liberal guidelines as now thrust of both central and state government is on reviving the economy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/80-industry-owners-dissatisfied-with-centre-s-stimulus-package-ficci-survey/story-PMaFInLRPI8eyhvv12ATVM.html
31-05-2020||Lucknow||Out of 1626 samples 62 test positive for Covid-19: KGMU, Lucknow||The King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Lucknow has informed that out of total 1626 samples tested for Covid-19 on Friday results of 62 were positive. According to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the total number of cases in Uttar Pradesh is 7,445, including 2,834 active cases.While 4,410 patients have been cured/discharged/migrated, 201 deaths have been reported in the state so far.India’s Covid-19 cases witnessed its highest spike as 8,380 more cases were reported in the last 24 hours, as per the latest data of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The death toll due to the infection has crossed the 5,000 mark.The total number of cases in the country now stands at 1,82,143 including 89,995 active cases, 86,984 cured/discharged/migrated and 5,164 deaths, it added. (The story has been published from a wire feed without any modifications to the text, only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/out-of-1626-samples-62-test-positive-for-covid-19-kgmu-lucknow/story-rDqw7cEzVwIKnWw9t9dZ1J.html
31-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt seeks Rs 5,000 crore from Centre to pay employees’ salaries: Sisodia||The Delhi government has demanded Rs 5,000 crore assistance from the Centre to be able to pay salaries to its employees, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Sunday. Sisodia, who also holds the finance department charge, said the Delhi government requires Rs 3,500 crore per month to pay salaries to its employees and to meet other needs.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage “However in past two months, our GST collection has been only Rs 500 crore each month. We need at least Rs 7,000 crore to be able to pay salaries to our employees many of whom are discharging frontline duties against the coronavirus epidemic,” Sisodia said in a press conference. The Deputy CM said that in a letter to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, he had demanded Rs 5,000 crore from the Centre as Delhi did not get anything from the disaster relief fund that was given to other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-seeks-rs-5-000-crore-from-centre-to-pay-employees-salaries-sisodia/story-fXNbFNydjJ8prYfoBGmOTN.html
31-05-2020||Kolkata||2 Kolkata Armed Police staff suspended for ransacking barracks over ‘unhygienic conditions’||At least two personnel of the Kolkata Armed Police’s fourth battalion were suspended on Saturday for allegedly ransacking their barracks in Salt Lake over “unhygienic conditions” there during the Covid-19 outbreak, sources in the police department said.Late on Friday evening, several personnel of the fourth battalion of Kolkata Armed Police had ransacked their barracks in Salt Lake demanding suitable working conditions amid the pandemic, they said.Following this, a probe was initiated to find out who “instigated” the personnel of the force.“Some of them were identified and out of them two were suspended on Saturday late evening. Strict actions will be taken against others who will be found responsible for the vandalism.“If they have any problem they should have passed on their message regarding their dissatisfaction to the senior officers, but ransacking your own barracks is not the proper way,” the source said.A video of the alleged incident, purportedly showing police personnel hurling bricks at senior officers who had rushed to the spot to pacify them, started doing the rounds on social media networking sites Incidentally, on May 20 around 500 police personnel of the Kolkata Police’s Combat Force had staged a massive protest at the city-based Police Training School (PTS) questioning why they were put on duty in areas where there were risks of them getting infected with Covid-19.Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has to rush to the PTS complex and pacify them and after personally assuring them of looking into their demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/2-kolkata-armed-police-staff-suspended-for-ransacking-barracks-over-unhygienic-conditions/story-XzNBu4JuHPIdHkg5Kl2siM.html
31-05-2020||Lucknow||Several areas of Uttar Pradesh likely to receive rainfall: IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD), on Sunday predicted that a few places in Uttar Pradesh are likely to be battered by rains in the next 3 hours.“Thunderstorm, lightning, rain very likely during next 3 hrs (valid up to 12:30 pm) at few places over Muzaffarnagar, Moradabad, Rampur, Bareilly, Pilibhit, Budaun, Sambhal, Amroha, Bulandshahar, Aligarh, Etah, Kasganj, Farrukhabad, Shahjahanpur, Lakhimpur Kheri dist and adjoining areas,” the advisory from the IMD, Lucknow read.The MeT department further predicted that these areas would be battered by a thunderstorm with a wind speed of 30-50 Kmph.Today morning, Delhi and its adjoining region also witnessed light rain showers, with the minimum and maximum temperatures hovering around 22 degrees Celsius and 35 degrees Celsius respectively, according to the IMD. The IMD predicted that rains occurred in the region due to the approaching western disturbance towards the Himalayan region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/several-areas-of-uttar-pradesh-likely-to-receive-rainfall-imd/story-3PfB7IrING82vzANj99rOM.html
31-05-2020||Gurugram||Traffic snarls at Delhi-Gurugram border||Commuters were stuck in a traffic jam at the Delhi-Gurugram border on Sunday morning after the Haryana administration decided to seal the borders in the wake of the rising cases of coronavirus.Click here for full Covid-19 coveragePolice deployed at check posts stopped vehicles to check e-passes before allowing anyone to pass, which led to traffic snarls at the border.The decision to seal the border came after Gurugram witnessed an increase of Covid-19 cases recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/traffic-snarls-at-delhi-gurugram-border/story-NCx0f5T7MB6mn6L4C9oeIP.html
31-05-2020||Patna||Centre should bear full expense of all centrally sponsored schemes for a year: Sushil Modi to Sitharaman||Bihar Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi on Saturday urged the Centre to bear the entire expenses of all Centrally sponsored schemes for one year.In a letter to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, the Bihar DyCM said that all 66 Centrally Sponsored Schemes (CSS) might be closed/discontinued for this year (2020-21) for want of money if the Centre does not bear the state’s share for schemes. He said the Centre should also bear the state’s shares as most states are not in a position to give their share of Centrally Sponsored Schemes because of the crisis due to lockdown in the country.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageSushil Modi, who also holds the finance portfolio, thanked the Central government for releasing Rs 9,268 crore as Bihar’s share in central taxes besides giving Rs 1,210.28 crore for MNREGA, Rs 708 crore for disaster and Rs 502 crore for urban local bodies.Of the Rs 25,650.43 crore which was spent on 66 CSS during the financial year 2019-20, the state received Rs 15,513.03 crore as central share whereas it had to spend Rs 10,137.40 crore as its own share, the DyCM said.Similarly, the state got Rs 1,093.13 crore for Mid Day Meal scheme and Rs 3,268.93 crore under Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) from the Centre while it (state) had to spend Rs 728.75 crore on MDM and Rs 2,177.95 crore on SSA respectively as its share.But given the situation arising out of Covid-19 and subsequent enforcement of lockdown, it is quite difficult for majority of the state governments to spend such a huge sum of funds this year (2020-21), he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/centre-should-bear-full-expense-of-all-centrally-sponsored-schemes-for-a-year-sushil-modi-to-sitharaman/story-Lp1gjKsqX8aJca80YtHkPJ.html
31-05-2020||Patna||Covid-19 death toll reaches 20 in Bihar; tally soars to 3,565 with 206 fresh cases||With a West Bengal’s migrant worker testing positive for coronavirus infection, days after his death at Samastipur near here en route his home states from Mumbai, the Covid-19 death toll in Bihar reached 20 on Saturday, the state’s Health Department said.Meanwhile, with 206 people testing positive for the infection, the count of total Covid-19 cases in Bihar soared to 3,565, it added.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageSamastipur Civil Surgeon R R Jha, the 35-year-old deceased happened to be a West Bengal resident, who fell severely ill on board a Shramik Special train he had boarded in Mumbai for travelling to his home state.“Because of his poor health condition, he was brought down at Samastipur station on May 26 and taken to a hospital where he died within a few hours. His sample was sent for testing and it has tested positive,” Jha said.Earlier, Patna, Vaishali, Bhojpur, Siwan and Khagaria had reported two casualties each while Munger, Begusarai, East Champaran, Sitamarhi, Saran, Nalanda, Rohtas, Jehanabad and Bhagalpur had reported one Covid-19 death each. In nearly half of the total cases of Covid-19 casualties, the samples were found positive after patients’ deaths. Meanwhile, the upward surge in Covid-19 cases, triggered by the continuing return of migrant workers to the state since early May, persisted. Among the 206 people, who tested positive on Saturday, the youngest one was a one-year-old boy from Bhagalpur while the oldest one was a man, aged 86 years, from Hajipur, the district headquarters of Vaishali.Districts reporting a significant spike on the day were Sheikhpura, Begusarai, Darbhanga, Bhojpur, Siwan, Saran and Jehanabad. Patna remains the worst-affected district with 241 cases, followed by Rohtas (205), Begusarai (199), Madhubani (190), Munger (155) and Khagaria (134). All 38 districts in the state have reported Covid-19 cases. The number of patients who have recovered after testing positive is 1,311, while 73,929 samples have been tested so far, according to a release issued by the state Health Department. Migrants, who have been arriving by trains and other means of transport including cargo vehicles, comprise a very high proportion of Covid-19 cases in Bihar. Since May 3, 2,433 migrants have tested positive for the coronavirus and a majority of them have returned from places like Maharashtra (613), Delhi (534), Gujarat (342), Haryana (213), Uttar Pradesh (124), Rajasthan (118), Telangana (103), West Bengal (101) and Punjab (73).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/covid-19-death-toll-reaches-20-in-bihar-tally-soars-to-3-565-with-206-fresh-cases/story-hcnfXGm8GoJFsgzl1P0enI.html
31-05-2020||Lucknow||Despite UP govt having over 70,000 buses, labourers had to walk home: Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday hit out at the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh, claiming that despite having over 70,000 buses in its fleet, labourers had to walk home amid the Covid-19 lockdown resulting in many deaths.In a statement issued here on Saturday, he said, “Despite lockdown, there has been no decrease in the spread of the disease. The infection has increased and economy destroyed. The economy of the country was already in bad shape. But following the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, the economy deteriorated. In this scenario, from where will the people get jobs?” Yadav posed.“The BJP works to entangle the vulnerable public of the state and the country in emotional issues. The dream of poor, farmers and labourers have shattered. The trust of the country’s citizens has broken,” he said.“Has the dreams achche din (good days), promised by the BJP been fulfilled?” the SP chief sought to know.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/despite-up-govt-having-over-70-000-buses-labourers-had-to-walk-home-sp-chief/story-Bgbw7Bcz8VAuKpjkj4l3UJ.html
31-05-2020||Ranchi||After Leh, Jharkhand govt flies 180 migrants from Andaman in charter flight||Altogether 180 migrant workers reached Jharkhand from Andaman and Nicobar Islands on Saturday by a state-sponsored charter flight, expressing relief from over two-month-long hardships due to lockdown. Migrants were flown back home from Andaman & Nicobar a day after 60 stranded workers returned to the state from Leh by a service flight arranged by the state government. “The expenses of both the flights are borne by the Hemant Soren government”, an official statement said here.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage The returnees will be sent by buses to their respective districts after health test, officials said. The migrants said they were given food and shelter by the Andaman administration, NGOs and fellow natives, settled in the island for several decades. Migrant workers were flown back home in charter flights by the Jharkhand government after the chief minister wrote to Union Home minister Amit Shah on May 21, seeking permission to operate flights to bring back stranded migrant workers from Andaman-Nicobar Islands, Ladakh and the northeast as they could not be ferried by buses or trains. The returnees from Andaman & Nicobar had requested the Jharkhand government to make arrangement for their return as they were stranded in the Island following the nationwide lockdown. The chief minister had also agreed that bringing migrants from some places by train or buses was very difficult and air route was necessary to end mental stress of the migrants. After emerging from Ranchi’s Birsa Munda Airport, a labourer said, “Many of us worked in road construction projects and endured much pain due to the lockdown.” He said they were engaged in road construction between South Andaman and North Andaman. Another labourer said, “We were staying in South Andaman and got food from the administration, NGOs and some people from Jharkhand who have stayed there for a long time.” The migrants went through health screening before they boarded the flight at Port Blair, officials said. Four years ago, a young tribal woman, who then worked in a shop there, had told visiting journalists from Jharkhand that her forefathers had come to the Island from the state several decades ago and their generations have settled there and also contributed to the development of Andaman. “Now several generations have settled here (Andaman) and are earning livelihood,” she said, tracing her roots to Jharkhand. According to a Port Blair-based journalist, several natives of this region of the country, which is now known as Jharkhand, were brought to the island in 1930s by the British for infrastructure works and they stayed there since. “Even a place is named as ‘Ranchi-Tegri’ and some of the states natives also stay at Bartang,” he said. Nearly 4.5 lakh of around 7 lakh migrant workers spread across the country have reached Jharkhand since May 1 by special trains, buses and now flights. Till Friday, 313 out of the total 522 confirmed coronavirus cases are migrants. The infection has claimed five lives since the outbreak of the pandemic on March 31. Jharkhand Water & Sanitation Minister Mithilesh Thakur, who reached the airport to welcome the third batch of migrants returning by flight in as many days, said another flight would take off from Andaman on Sunday. “This is the third flight which brought migrant workers from places where trains or buses are difficult to bring them. Tomorrow another flight will take off from Andaman & Nicobar Island,” Thakur told reporters. “The government is working to give employment to them in the state,” he added. Besides Thakur, senior MLA and former deputy chief minister Stephen Marandi was also present at the airport and handed food packets to returnees. They said Jharkhand is the state where the first train and the first flight carrying migrant pravasis reached the state during the lockdown. A migrant, who hails from Bokaro said, “We were in distress, but now feel relieved after reaching Ranchi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/after-leh-jharkhand-govt-flies-180-migrants-from-andaman-in-charter-flight/story-ft60VBxCCCyILVBZE5LMxO.html
31-05-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra likely to persist with stringent curbs||Maharashtra is expected to continue with most of the Lockdown 4 restrictions as the number of Covid cases doubled in the state in the past fortnight. Officials said more relaxations can be offered in allowing opening of standalone shops in urban areas. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has already indicated that he is not keen to lift curbs in Mumbai, Pune and MMR as Covid-19 cases could spike if restrictions are lifted. The Maharashtra government is expected to issue revised guidelines for the state by Sunday. An official said that the government is going to provide further restrictions in a “gradual and calibrated manner” but Covid-19 cases are bound to go up as this happens. The official added that the state government is moving “cautiously” and relaxations would be given on the degree of “contact” and “essential” nature of the service.Maharashtra on Saturday recorded 2,940 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, its second-highest spike in a day so far. With this, the state has also crossed the 65,000 mark, with the case count at 65,168. Of them, 34,881 are active cases, according to the state health department.On Saturday, 99 deaths, third highest in a day, were reported, taking the toll to 2,197. Of them, 40 deaths were from the past two days, while the rest are from the past 22 days, according to the health department.Mumbai accounted for 1,510 new cases on Saturday. With this, the city tally reached 38,442 cases, of which 20,845 are active cases.On May 22, Mumbai had reported highest one-day cases — 1,751. On Friday, the state had recorded 116 fatalities, highest so far. However, the government had clarified that 70 of them were from the past 13 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-maharashtra-likely-to-persist-with-stringent-curbs/story-dPszqRPeU6MuWWlMXWlkaJ.html
31-05-2020||Delhi||Missing boy’s body found in garbage with face smashed in Delhi’s Gokalpuri||A 12-year-old boy’s body was found lying in a pile of garbage in northeast Delhi’s Gokalpuri on Saturday seven days after he went missing from Ghaziabad’s Loni, around 5km away, police said and added a preliminary inquiry suggested some drug addicts may have murdered him. Police said the boy’s face was smashed with a stone. “The body was sent for post mortem examination to ascertain the cause of death. ..he was identified by his brother. They live in Loni with their mother who works as a housemaid. Their father died a few years ago... he told police the deceased hung out with some boys in Gokalpuri who have substance abuse problems,” deputy police commissioner (northeast) Ved Prakash Surya said.The brother said the boy would remain out for days. “It is suspected that the boy was killed over some fight within the group. It looks like they killed him with a stone and then left his body near the garbage. We have formed teams to nab the suspects. CCTV footage has been collected and all those who were last seen with the boy are being identified.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/missing-boy-s-body-found-in-garbage-with-face-smashed-in-delhi-s-gokalpuri/story-1HoaiW0IVQDoShg0TmiBWM.html
31-05-2020||Delhi||Active Covid-19 cases increase in Delhi, but recovery rate improves to 43 per cent||National capital Delhi is witnessing increase in the number of people who have recovered from coronavirus disease Covid-19. Till May 30, Delhi has seen 18,495 cases of Covid-19 out of which 8,075 - or 43 per cent - have recovered, according to analysis of data done by Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan.The number of fatalities in Delhi due to Covid-19 stands at 416. The active cases in Delhi are 10,058. Out of this, 5,139 patients are in home isolation, reported Hindustan, quoting Delhi health officials.There has been a marked increase in the number of those who have recovered from the disease from phase 1 of the lockdown to phase 4. In phase 1, the number of active cases were 1,561 whereas 30 people had recovered - which was less than two per cent.The number of active cases reached 4,549 in the second phase and those who recovered were 1,362 or 29 per cent. In phase three of the lockdown, the number of active cases were 9,755 and recovered cases 4,202. This was 43 per cent cent of the total number of cases.In the fourth phase of the lockdown, the rate of recovery is hovering around 45 per cent.Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal conceded on Saturday that Delhi has recorded a two-fold increase in Covid-19 cases since May 14, a trend that is worrying. But he urged residents of the city not to panic because a majority of the patients are either asymptomatic or show mild symptoms like cough, cold and fever.Delhi is several steps ahead of the Covid-19 pandemic and by June 5, will have in place 9,500 hospital beds for patients, Kejriwal said.The national capital reported 1,163 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, crossing the threshold of 1,000 for the third day in a row.Kejriwal also said the government will launch a dedicated mobile application and a website for people to check the availability of Covid-19 beds and ventilators in hospitals.“The app will show the data and status of beds and ventilators available in each hospital in Delhi. People who do not use smartphones can access this information on a website that is also being created,” he said.The number of deaths due to Covid-19 in India crossed the 5,000 mark on Saturday, reaching a grim milestone. According to a compilation of data reported by state governments, there have been 181,791 infections and 5,106 fatalities in the country as of Saturday. India took 79 days to record these many deaths, while some of the major Covid-19 hotspots - such United States, United Kingdom, Spain and Italy - took less than a third of this duration to rack up similar counts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/active-covid-19-cases-increase-in-delhi-but-recovery-rate-improves-to-43-per-cent/story-IZNnAvrY7aYyHSjjUpwl2K.html
31-05-2020||Delhi||JCC members’ incitement caused Delhi riots: Police||A city court heard the bail application of Safoora Zargar, the 20-week-pregnant Jamia Millia Islamia student, and Jamia Co-ordination Committee(JCC) member on Saturday and posted the matter for further hearing on June 4. Meanwhile, it granted interim bail to co-accused Ishrat Jahan for 10 days (June 10-19) on the grounds that her marriage is scheduled on June 12.The Delhi police special cell on Saturday told the court that members of JCC incited people at different protest sites, created blockades and caused the riots in north east Delhi earlier this year. The special cell, which is the anti-terrorist unit of the force, registered a case to probe if the riots were part of a larger conspiracy.Thus far, two members of JCC have been arrested in the case. The riots, between February 24-26, left at least 53 people dead. The JCC is a group of former and current students of the university that came together to coordinate the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests outside the varsity. A JCC member, who wished not to be named, told HT, “JCC’s idea was to resist the fascist law combination of CAA/NRC/NPR. Road blockade is a way of protesting all over the world...We have reiterated that JCC believes in the constitution and democratic ways of social transition and right to dissent....Delhi police want to suppress all the resistance against the government... and it’s fascist laws. There has been backlash from the court about the arbitrary nature of the enquiry, and from the public about their revengeful actions.”During the proceedings, Special Judge Dharmender Rana also sought to know the link between Unlawful Activites Prevention Act (UAPA) under which Zargar and the other accused have been arrested and the road blockades: “What is the connecting link between UAPA and road blocks. UAPA cannot be invoked for blocking roads. Show me the link.”The police said that the idea was to frustrate the people, paralyse the government and orchestrate riots. “It is not just about Safoora Zargar. She is a part of the chain... People sitting in various sites were asked to move and block the roads...,” the police said. The police said that the intent was to create blockades such as the one at Shaheen Bagh, and cause riots thereby giving a wrong impression during the visit of US President Donald Trump.At Shaheen Bagh, locals were protesting since December 15, 2019, against the CAA and NRC. They were evicted on March 25 this year in view of the lockdown as well as prohibitory orders issued under Section 144 CrPC. Opposing Zargar’s bail application, public prosecutor Irfan Ahmed, said she visited Chand Bagh (where many incidents of violence were reported) and delivered a provocative speech. Meanwhile, Natasha Narwal, arrested member of Pinjra Tod, was produced before a special judge. The matter was heard in the evening; the order is yet to be uploaded. Devangana Kalita, another accused, was sent to three day police custody in connection with the FIR filed in the Daryaganj violence case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/jcc-members-incitement-caused-delhi-riots-police/story-fCLIvBTsELkUqPRymCSJ0K.html
31-05-2020||Kolkata||Lockdown 5.0: Bengal allows some relaxations; restaurants, malls can reopen||The West Bengal government on Saturday decided to extend the Covid-19 lockdown until June 15 only in containment zones, allowing greater relaxation in all other areas, hours after the Union home ministry set the ground rules to be followed for the month of June.The Mamata Banerjee government had earlier divided the containment zones into three areas — A is an affected area, B is the buffer zone & C is the clean area. From June 1, lockdown will be enforced in containment zone A, while containment zones B and C will be offered relaxations. “It is felt necessary to continue to implement the lockdown in the affected areas (containment zones) to effectively contain the spread of Covid-19 and open up activities in other areas for socio-economic revival,” said a government notification issued by the chief secretary.The order said a strict lockdown will be imposed in the affected areas, with no relaxations. Relaxations will be allowed in containment zones B and C from June 1, with the resumption of work in tea gardens, jute mills, micro, small, medium & large industries, and the construction industry .Intra-state movement of government and private buses has also been allowed with passengers not exceeding the seating capacity of the vehicle. No passengers will be allowed to travel standing and all passengers must wear masks and gloves.While the Union ministry of home affairs has allowed opening of religious places from June 8, Bengal has allowed it from June 1 with not more than 10 persons gathering at a time. It was not immediately clear if Bengal will revise its stand. The state has also allowed all offices and industries to resume work with 100% workforce beyond the “affected areas”.Restaurants and shopping malls have been allowed to open on June 1. Government offices will function with 70% of the workforce on a rotational basis. While the government said it encouraged private offices to adopt a work-from-home policy, the number of staff in offices will be decided by the companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/lockdown-5-0-bengal-allows-some-relaxations-restaurants-malls-can-reopen/story-NzyZpP6rauKIuftzhSTY1O.html
31-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro services to remain closed for commuters until further notice||New Delhi [India], May 30 (ANI): The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Saturday said that metro trains would remain closed for commuters until further notice. “In light of the guidelines issued by the government, Metro services will remain closed for commuters until further notice,” tweeted DMRC. The update comes after the Union Home Ministry on Saturday issued new guidelines for the phased reopening of all activities outside containment zones till June 30.The MHA said that the dates for the opening of international air travel of passengers, operation of metro rail, cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks will be decided based on the assessment of the situation in Phase III of #Unlock1.According to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the country is 1,73,763, including 86,422 active cases.While 82,369 patients have recovered after treatment, 4,971 deaths due to the infection have been reported so far in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-metro-services-to-remain-closed-for-commuters-until-further-notice/story-jEtLkZgjwtrVOFaF69zWcM.html
31-05-2020||Chandigarh||Captain Amarinder Singh warns China against bid to intrude into Indian territory||Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday warned China against any attempt to intrude into Indian territory, saying India will not back off in the face of Beijing’s intimidation.“While we do not want war, we will not tolerate any bullying by Beijing,” said the CM, warning the neighbouring country against taking India lightly. “This is not 1962,” he said, making it clear that if China did not stop indulging in intimidating behaviour, it would have to pay the price.“The Indian Army is ready to give a befitting reply and China should not take any chances,” he warned, in response to a Kolkata resident’s question, during his live session on a social media platform. “We don’t want war with any nation and want the situation to improve, but if they keep behaving like this we won’t have any other option left,” he said, urging China to mend its ways and talk to India to resolve the issue. Amarinder said China cannot stop India from building any infrastructure on its side of the border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/captain-amarinder-singh-warns-china-against-bid-to-intrude-into-indian-territory/story-B9av4Rk0KBhbquLr2VarWL.html
31-05-2020||Chandigarh||CBI arrests fraudster declared ‘dead’ 30 years ago in Patiala||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has arrested a US citizen Nirmal Singh, 65, who had been declared ‘dead’ in India about 30 years back, in a Rs 2.5 lakh bank fraud he committed in Chandigarh in 1985. He was arrested from his Punjabi Bagh house in the city, having landed in the country around two months ago, in the wee hours of Saturday. A court had declared him a proclaimed offender in 1993. Nirmal, the manager at UCO Bank, had been booked by in 1990 in a case registered at the CBI Police station. He had also remained in jail for two years before being bailed out. On being granted bail, Nirmal went underground, while his family cremated an ‘unclaimed body’ by showing it as that of Nirmal, the CBI now says. With Nirmal ‘dead’ in the record of the CBI, he got a fake passport in the name of NS Batth and migrated to the US, where he managed to get citizenship. Later, he also got his wife and children with him and was leading a lavish life there. His wife Parminder Kaur Batth had also started a web news channel, named Bulandh TV. “Following a tip-off that Nirmal is alive and has come back to Patiala, we conducted a raid and arrested him. On seeing us, he fell unconscious. He was provided medical aid,” said inspector Vikas Kumar, who led the CBI team, adding that he would be produced in court after his covid-19 test report. Sources said a close aide of Nirmal, who had entered into a tiff with him in recent times, had informed the central agency about his whereabouts. Now, the CBI has also named his wife Parminder in a new FIR charging her with cheating, for concealing the whereabouts of her husband, and helping him flee.&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&Strap/BlurbNow a US citizen, the then bank manager had committed a fraud of Rs 2.5 lakh in UCO Bank in Chandigarh in 1985; then enacted the drama of his own death with the help of wife to flee abroad||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cbi-arrests-fraudster-declared-dead-30-years-ago-in-patiala/story-2Q17cdxVUzWkYGoGor7K0O.html
31-05-2020||Chandigarh||Trader contracts virus, Amritsar’s new cloth market shuts again||Having faced losses already due to the lockdown, the cloth traders at the famous new market here have been asked to shut shops again after one of them tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday.The congested walled city, the oldest portion of the holy city and hub of wholesale clothing business, remained shut for nearly 50 days. The market saw a trickle of customers since recent relaxations. However, a covid case was reported in the market on Friday, prompting the authorities to close the market. “After a shopkeeper tested positive, the administration has asked all of the shopkeepers to take precautions. As many as 60 traders will have to shut their shops for some more days,” Amritsar Federation of Cloth Wholesalers’ chairman Jatinder Singh Bhatia said.He said the infected trader had made a business trip to Kashmir, but it is yet to be ascertained from where he contracted the infection. “Ever since we opened our outlets, we are taking precautions and following the government guidelines,” he added.Over 5,000 traders are into wholesale cloth business across the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/trader-contracts-virus-amritsar-s-new-cloth-market-shuts-again/story-eANmPticFPtr4vWIqZNyGL.html
31-05-2020||Chandigarh||SAD to launch state-wide stir if free power to farmers goes||Chandigarh The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Saturday resolved to launch state-wide protests, in case the Captain Amarinder Singh government in Punjab scraps free power to agriculture tubwells. No schedule for protest was announced. In 1997, the SAD-BJP government had introduced free power for all tube wells across Punjab. “We will not let the government impose bills on tubewells. If that happens, the government will have to face the anger of people of Punjab,” SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said in the party’s core committee meeting. On Wednesday, the state cabinet took an in-principle decision saying that it will provide direct benefit transfer (DBT) of power subsidy to farmers for using tubewells. The decision will put an end to existing system of giving in advance a lump sum amount to PSPCL for electricity consumed by 14 lakh tubewells in the state. The issue has given the Akalis a chance to touch base with the state peasantry, its major vote bank, which had distanced itself from the SAD, after series of incidents of desecration of Guru Granth Sahib in 2015. The then Akali-BJP government in the state was blamed for the desecrations. By resorting to the party’s old style of agitation politics, SAD see a chance to mobilise its workers, and rejuvenate its beleaguered support base in rural Punjab.Dismissing a statement by Amarinder that the cabinet had never contemplated any move to scrap the free power facility for farmers and replace it with a direct benefit transfer scheme (DBT), the core committee resolved, “If the Congress government tries to force the decision on farmers through the backdoor under the pretext of cash subsidy to farmers, the SAD will not remain a mute witness to it,” it said. “Initially, Punjab ministers confirmed the decision of imposing bills on tubewells. When when we declared to launch an agitation against the government, the CM and the state government panicked and felt compelled to deny the move,” Sukhbir told the core committee. The committee also condemned the government for allowing 80% increase in fee in medical colleges and sought its withdrawal. It also condoled the passing away of former MP Gurdas Singh Badal. In other major issues, the core committee sought a package for the poor from the state government. “The Congress government announced relief of Rs 676 crore to liquor contractors and land mining mafia (Rs 84 crore) but has not given a penny to farmers, labourers, domestic power consumers or the industry,” it said. The SAD has also demanded a CBI inquiry into the sale of spurious seeds and another impartial inquiry into reported losses of Rs. 5,600 crore caused to the state exchequer due to a scam in liquor sale. “The scam is patronised by the MLAs of the ruling party and the hot-spot is Rajpura and Patiala. No action is being taken,” the party said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sad-to-launch-state-wide-stir-if-free-power-to-farmers-goes/story-ysKYjeNETjLjQDd2b2RXUP.html
31-05-2020||Chandigarh||Will not compromise with farmers’ interest, says Captain Amarinder Singh||Rejecting allegations of withdrawal of free power to farmers in Punjab, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday said his government is ready to forego the portion of fiscal deficit enhancement offered by the Centre, but would not compromise with the farmers’ interest at any cost.Dismissing the Centre’s suggestion on replacement of free power to farmers with direct benefit transfer (DBT) unacceptable and attack on the federal structure of the nation, the CM said he will take up the issue with the Union government for trying to impose such anti-farmer condition on the cash-strapped state in the guise of extending fiscal support amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Asserting that the free power facility for farmers will continue till his government is in power, Amarinder said his government will take loans to bridge the fiscal deficit, and the government of India cannot dictate the terms of a sovereign loan being taken by a state government.The CM also lashed out at Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal for trying to pin the blame for the Central government’s misdemeanours on the state government, which had unwaveringly been providing free power to farmers since taking over in March 2017, despite the massive fiscal crunch it had inherited from the erstwhile Akali-BJP regime. Amarinder asked Sukhbir to quit the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) at the Centre and demanded Union minister and Akali leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal’s resignation from the Union cabinet. He pointed that it was the government at the Centre that took the decision directing the states to withdraw the free power.Terming their allegations malicious, mischievous and unsubstantiated, Amarinder hit out at the Akali leadership for not fighting for the rights of Punjab and its people, including farmers, at the Centre or in Parliament, and resorting, instead, to petty and shameless politicking even on such a grave issue of national concern.“If you have even an iota of shame, you should leave the NDA coalition, of which you are a part, immediately, and join my government in working for the people of the state,” the CM said in a statement, criticising Sukhbir and Harsimrat over their pathetic attempts to mislead the people of Punjab with their patent double standards, blatant falsehoods and unfounded allegations.Amarinder clarified that the state cabinet had, in its last meeting, given an in-principle approval to undertaking certain reforms to become eligible to avail additional borrowing of 1.5% of gross state domestic product (GSDP) amid Covid-19, as mandated by the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/will-not-compromise-with-farmers-interest-says-captain-amarinder-singh/story-XSbztqH1tjprXGhu5BUVLI.html
31-05-2020||City||Bodies of two missing friends found in Ludhiana canal||Missing for the past four days, two friends were found dead in the canal near Kaind Canal bridge on Saturday. The deceased were identified as Jaswinder Singh, 28, and Tejwinder Singh, 22, both residents of Khud Mohalla. Tejwinder’s family runs a wood scrap business, while Jaswinder was a salesman at a readymade garment store. Police are probing their death from various angles, while not ruling out suicide.Inspector Satish Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Division Number 3 police station, said the men were friends and neighbours. They left home on a scooter on the evening of May 26 after switching off the mobile phones and leaving them home. When the men did not return home, their families started searching for them and later informed the police.On Saturday, the Dehlon police recovered a scooter near the Kaind Canal bridge, and pressed divers into service. The divers fished out the friends’ bodies from the canal, and their parents were informed. Police checked their mobile phones, but found no leads.The SHO said they had asked the two families to record their statements. Further action will be taken following the autopsy report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bodies-of-two-missing-friends-found-in-ludhiana-canal/story-t3SS6A103jKhsECiiJESKO.html
31-05-2020||Chandigarh||PRTC to double buses plying on Punjab roads from tomorrow||The Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) is set to nearly double the number of buses it is currently plying on the Punjab roads from Monday with a view to ensuring that commuters using public transport do not face any inconvenience. Two hundred buses will be pressed into service against the present 110. The state government-run transporter had resumed its service on May 20 after relaxations in the ongoing lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the coronavirus. The decision on stoppages is yet to be taken as the buses currently are running directly from one boarding station to the other and that too on inter-district routes. The state government is yet to give nod to the private transporters to begin service.PRTC managing director (MD) Jaskaran Singh said besides increasing number of buses, the depot managers have been directed to follow the time table strictly.“Earlier, the buses waited for the number of passengers as per occupancy norms before starting journey. But from June 1, the buses will run as per the timetable. More buses will ply on key routes, especially towards Chandigarh so that people could easily visit the state capital for work,” the MD said. “The number of buses will be increased gradually. Service on other key routes and in other rural areas will be resumed as per the state government’s directions,” he added.The corporation, which has fleet of 1,073 buses in nine depots, faced a loss of ₹51 crore in the first 60 days of the lockdown, with average daily loss pegged at ₹85 lakh. Also, not many people are preferring to travel in public transport due to fear of contracting coronavirus. With only 30% of occupancy, the PRTC is already finding it financially unviable to ply its buses on roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/prtc-to-double-buses-plying-on-punjab-roads-from-tomorrow/story-bdJvxfRfR86d65X0HhAZJM.html
31-05-2020||Chandigarh||Stranded in Pak, 300 Indians likely to return via Wagah on Tuesday||Nearly 300 Indians stranded in various parts of Pakistan due to the closure of the borders in the wake of the coronavirus-induced lockdown are likely to return home through the Attar-Wagah border in Amritsar on Tuesday. Ministry of external affairs (MEA) deputy secretary Sandeep Kumar said the repatriation process has been initiated but the date of their return is yet to be finalised. A senior official of the Land Port Authority of India (LPAI), which manages the Integrated Check Post (ICP) at the international border, said, “We expect the return of those stranded after Monday. It will most likely be on Tuesday.”The ICP also facilitates India’s trade with Pakistan and Afghanistan. According to reports in the Pakistan media, among those stranded are 80 students from Jammu and Kashmir who are studying there. Around 10 Indians are stuck in Islamabad, 200 in Karachi and other parts of Sindh province where they had gone to meet their relatives, it is learnt. Nearly a dozen people, most of them from Amritsar who had gone to the neighbouring country for paying obeisance at various gurdwaras, including Nankana Sahib, are stuck in Lahore. Satbir Singh (60), his wife Jasmeen Kaur along with three others from Amritsar had gone to pay obeisance at Nankana Sahib on March 10. They have been staying at the house of Amrik Singh, a Lahore residemt. “The health department in Pakistan has conducted their coronavirus tests as part of the repatriation process and they were found negative. My father is unwell as the medicines prescribed to him are not available at drug stores there,” said Satbir’s son Kamaljeet Singh, who deals in auto spare parts in Amritsar. On May 27, the Indian government had facilitated the return of 179 Pakistani nationals, who were aso stranded due to the lockdown, through the land route. After the lockdown, India has allowed nearly 400 Pakistani nationals to return their homes via the Wagah border. India suspended the cross-border movement of passengers through the Attari-Wagah border On March 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/stranded-in-pak-300-indians-likely-to-return-via-wagah-on-tuesday/story-XdgSzWRwzfpV0ZGSuwcQrI.html
31-05-2020||Chandigarh||PM’s open letter to people a nasty joke: Jakhar||Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar termed the open letter written to the people of the country by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on completion of one year of his government “a nasty joke”.He said that people across the country and all the state governments were seeking financial help from the Union government, but the PM is unaware of the realities. “Due to continuous lockdown for two-and-a-half months, it has become difficult for every section of the society to manage the capital to meet their daily needs. The state governments are also in a severe economic crisis as their sources of income were nosediving. In such a situation, everyone was expecting some relief from the PM,” Jakhar said.He said the “so-called” package of Rs 20 lakh crore had nothing to do with farmers and people of the low-income group. The economy of the country was in dire straits and the Union government was on a completely disoriented path which had no policy or intention to lead the country, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pm-s-open-letter-to-people-a-nasty-joke-jakhar/story-XKLNt4SbWVpq31MeO1iUGL.html
31-05-2020||Chandigarh||44 fresh cases in Punjab, tally 2,334||Forty-four more people, including 13 from the Amritsar district, tested positive for the coronavirus in Punjab on Saturday, taking the state’s tally of those infected by the disease to 2,334. Health department officials in Amritsar said four fresh cases of community spread were reported from Green Avenue, Hathi Gate, Garwali Gate and Baba Bakala. Besides, a city-based man, who recently returned from Mumbai and was quarantined at his home, was found infected. Also, eight contacts of Covid-19 patients were tested positive. All the patients are admitted to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Amritsar, and are stable. The district’s total tally of cases has reached 387, including 7 deaths. 2 undertrials, 7 others infected in Ludhiana As many as nine more persons, including seven family members of a Covid casualty and two undertrials lodged in a Ludhiana jail, tested positive in the district. A 51-year-old resident of Chhawani Mohalla died of the virus infection on Friday, following which samples of nine of his family members were taken. Of the seven of his family found infected are his wife, elder brother and an 11-year-old boy.In the Sangrur district, a 50-year-old vegetable vendor from Malerkotla town, who was injured a road accident, was tested positive for the coronavirus at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh. “He sustained injuries in the accident and was referred to the Rajindra Hospital Patiala, from where he was sent to PGIMER,” said senior medical officer Dr Jaswinder Singh.7 of family among 8 infected in Rupnagar Eight persons, including seven members of a family, and a healthcare worker, tested positive for Covid-19 at Mansuhan Kalan village of Rupnagar district on Saturday. Rupnagar deputy commissioner Sonali Giri said the seven family members, aged between two and 85, returned from Maharashtra where they were stuck due to the lockdown. The 48-year-old female healthcare worker is also posted in the same village.The patients were shifted to the Gian Sagar Medical College and Hospital, Banur. The district now has 10 active Covid-19 cases. Eight, including 6-year-old positive in PathankotEight persons, including a six-year-old boy were found positive in the pathankot district. Five patients are contacts of a trader who runs wholesale business in the Damtal food grain market in the neighbouring Himachal Pradesh. Two of the, a man and his son, are in a serious condition in Amritsar and Ludhiana hospitals. Six test positive in HoshiarpurIn Hoshiarpur district, six more cases were reported, taking the total number of infected persons to 121. Four patients are contacts of a Nangli Jalalpur man who had died of the disease on May 17. Till date, 21 of his contacts have tested positive for the virus. One patient from Sajna village returned from Gujrat and another hails from Ramdaspur. The latter returned from Jaipur in Rajasthan. In neighbouring Gurdaspur district, a 34-year-old man of Saraspur village near Dhariwal was reported positive. He returned from Mumbai, Maharashtra, where he worked. Batala civil surgeon Dr Sanjeev Bhalla said four pregnant women, who were tested positive earlier, were discharged on Saturday. The district has reported 140 cases, including three deaths.Two infected in Fazilka, 1 each in Bathinda, Moga In Fazilka district, reports of two persons, including a 21-year-old army jawan, came positive for the disease. A 23-year-old youth found infected had returned from Haryana while the armyman was kept at an isolation ward in the Fazilka cantonment area. In adjacent Bathinda district, a woman of Raman Mandi town, she had recently travelled to Delhi with her husband was tested positive.Her husband was tested negative. They were in home quarantine after their returned from Delhi on May 25, deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said.In Moga district, a man who returned from Chennai on May 28, was tested positive. The patient belongs to Daroli Bhai village. He was admitted to the community health centre, Baghapurana,” civil surgeon Dr Andesh Kang said.Also in Mohali district, a Delhi-based banker’s wife and a dhaba owner’s son were found positive.(Inputs from Sangrur, Mohali, Bathinda, Ferozepur and Faridkot)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/44-fresh-cases-in-punjab-tally-2-334/story-XlQEpAGbBXDdzA996QeFiM.html
31-05-2020||Chandigarh||PG owners, small entrepreneurs battle for survival in Bathinda||Ajit Road in Bathinda, which till the end of March remained abuzz with student activities as it is home to over 150 IELTS training centres and over 250 PG accommodations, now bears a deserted look.Owing to coronavirus outbreak and the subsequent nationwide lockdown, the coaching institutes have been shut down since more than two months now.Scores of small time entrepreneurs, including juice-sellers, eatery owners, stationery shops, and gift shops, who were dependent on students visiting the city from Punjab and the adjoining states, are battling for survival.Many dhabas and PG accommodations have been closed down in the past few weeks. Arshdeep Singh Sidhu and Lovepreet Singh Thind, who run IELTS coaching institutes, complain of losing peak business season from April to September. “We cannot demand this, but it will be a goodwill gesture from the building owners if they waive off the pending rent. Bathinda is an academic coaching hub and state should have some relief plan for this sector,” said Thind.Sukhraj Singh, who had ventured into the business of PG accommodations for girl students two years back, has to close down operations earlier this month.Sharda Kapoor, who has taken a flat and two independent houses on rent, is also worried about the business that she had started 15 years back. “There has been no income in the last two months and the rental amounts are piling up. Soon, I will have to take a final decision,” she said.Navneet Goyal, who owns a stationery shop, says order of closure of coaching institutes has severely hit our business. “IELTS training centres contribute a sizable amount to the local economy. I am facing over 85% loss in business,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pg-owners-small-entrepreneurs-battle-for-survival-in-bathinda/story-yUcN2iBtgKricm6dlvmDKN.html
31-05-2020||Chandigarh||Pandemic, curbs push IELTS centres, visa facilitators to brink in Jalandhar and Ludhiana||Those running International English Language Testing System (IELTS) coaching centres and visa consultancy firms in Jalandhar and Ludhiana are out of business. There are around 1,500 IELTS and visa consultancy firms in Jalandhar district and 750 in Ludhiana, many of them struggling to pay the rent and salaries to the staff. An umbrella organization of such firms — Study Abroad Association — in Ludhiana recently submitted a memorandum to deputy commissioner seeking relief in rent and other measures to pull out them out of the distress. The memorandum was forwarded to the chief minister’s office.The centres in Ludhiana train around 35,000 to 40,000 candidates for immigration every year and most of them run from rented premises that costs between ₹1 lakh to ₹2.5 lakh a month. President of the association Mitesh Malhotra, who runs seven IELTS and visa consultancy centres in Ludhiana, said the period between April and September is the peak season, when a majority of aspirants join universities or colleges abroad.“Even if we start IELTS classes by June or July-end with 30% of capacity, only one-fourth of the 40,000 students will be able to go abroad for the January intake and the commission that we will get from the universities will arrive by April next year,” he said.Criticising the government for not supporting coaching and consultancy establishments at this time, Malhotra said governments hold NRI sammelans (congregations) to appreciate the contribution made by NRIs for the development of the state, they have no regard for the establishments that help in making these people NRIs.Gagneet Singh Grewal, who runs a visa-cum-consultancy centre in Ludhiana’s Ferozepur Gandhi Market, said, “If the government fails to curb the spread of coronavirus, some countries might not allow the migration of Indians and many students who had earlier planned to study abroad might drop the idea.”Nina Rahul Gupta, who runs an IELTS and immigration centre in Jalandhar, said “We have been providing IELTS classes online for our students. There has been uncertainty among the students due to travel restrictions and we are flooded with queries.”Also, trainers at several IELTS centres in Jalandhar are waiting for salaries since April. One of the trainers at a private coaching centre, Richa Sharma (name changed), said she was yet to get her April’s salary. “I was told that I will not get salary till the situation normalise. I am helpless now,”she said.Manpreet Kaur too shared similar experience, saying she was paid only ₹12,000 out of her ₹30,000 salary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pandemic-curbs-push-ielts-centres-visa-facilitators-to-brink/story-M3JqaD8vzUg3SYUXPXLt8J.html
31-05-2020||City||Parents protest outside Panchkula school over ‘fee hike’||More than 40 parents protested for over two hours outside St Soldier Divine Public School, Sector 16, Panckula, over a ‘hike’ in fees, on Saturday. They raised slogans of “No school, no fee” and “Make education free for all”. In a signed letter that was later pasted on the school’s gate, the parents wrote: “ Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, we are not in a position to afford the fee structure uploaded by the school on its portal.”Parents demanded that there should be full fee concession for three months – April, May and June, as no classes were conducted.“From July onwards, we will only pay the amended tuition fee of ₹3,050 per month. No additional cost like annual charges should be levied for whole academic year,” the letter said.One of the parents who participated in the protest said: “In February, the school revised the fees from ₹3050 to ₹3,367, which we thought is the annual hike of 10%. In March, when we logged into the school portal to submit the fees, we found the school was now charging ₹5,200.”“When we raised the issue, the fee was reduced back to ₹3050 for April and May. But now, from June onwards, it has been changed back to ₹5,200, plus ₹2,200 as bus charges.”Another parent said: “We are not ready to pay the hiked fee. Due to the lockdown, many businesses have been adversely affected. Many have taken salary cuts and lost jobs. Amid such a scenario, how can school authorities expect us to pay the increased fee?”Neera M Singh, manager of the school, said, “In the previous academic year, the school was charging fees under two heads; one was monthly fee of ₹3,050 and another under the ‘other charges’ category, which the school charged twice a year, amounting to ₹20,000.”“This academic year, on the parents’ request, we combined the two fee structures and added 10% hike, as per government norms. So, the new fee was ₹ 5,200. This was conveyed to parents much in advance.”The manager said: “For the lockdown period, the school is charging last year’s fee of ₹ 3,050 and nothing else. The parents don’t understand that the school has only merged the fee structures and has not raised it much.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/parents-protest-outside-panchkula-school-over-fee-hike/story-jKwnqRI3B7BvaSnmYNiunL.html
31-05-2020||City||Navi Mumbai records 114 new cases, 7 deaths||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) reported 114 Covid cases and seven deaths on Saturday. The total number of Covid positive patients in Navi Mumbai is 2,110. Among the new cases are three children-- a 12-year-old boy from Nerul, a 13-year-old girl from Kopar Khairane and a six-year-old boy from Turbhe Store.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-records-114-new-cases-7-deaths/story-JAXnNa2ppfPYpqy4tOkpZN.html
31-05-2020||Chandigarh||Parents protest against fee collection by schools in Chandigarh||Parents staged protests on Saturday outside St Kabir High School, Sector 26, and St Joseph’s School, Sector 44, against the collection of fees despite classes being suspended amid the Covid-19 lockdown. Similar protests were witnessed outside two private schools in the city on Friday as well.In the last one week, over eight such protests have been held by parents.The parents said their economic condition has taken a huge hit amid the lockdown and they can’t afford to pay the fees due to loss of jobs. They added that schools were charging for facilities like air-conditioners and electricity which are not being used as classes are suspended.Nitin Goyal, president of the Chandigarh Parents’ Association said, “Due to the UT administration’s negligence and greed of the school managements, parents have been forced to come out on the roads.”GS Bakshi, administrator of St Kabir High School, said, “I am aware that parents have been financially affected by the pandemic. However, some parents are misusing the Covid situation. They have probably been mislead or misinformed. We made it clear that if any parent has a problem, they can discuss the situation with us. The approach of pressurising the school management by staging protests will not work. We will follow the rules laid down by the UT administration and expect parents to do the same.”Monica Chawala, principal of St Joseph’s School, could not be reached for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/parents-protest-against-fee-collection-by-schools-in-chandigarh/story-PwWoPVEW0er9ZMu6k9QRXP.html
31-05-2020||City||Covid positive cases in Kalyan touches 980||The Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) recorded 38 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday and one death. The death toll in the city is 28. The city has recorded 980 positive cases till now.A 46-year-old man from Kalyan (East) died on Thursday. His Covid test report on Saturday showed he was infected, said KDMC health department officials. The man was admitted to Shastrinagar civic hospital in Dombivli on May 25 and he died on Thursday.Out of the 980 cases, 312 are from Kalyan (East). Out of the newly recorded 38 cases, 23 of them are from Kalyan (East).Several cases were reported from areas such as Anandwadi, Kolsewadi, Karpewadi, Katemanivali and Chinchpada. Anandwadi, which has several chawls, has recored around 26 cases till date, as per the health officials of KDMC.“We have been recording more cases from Kalyan (East) these days. Our team is conducting a survey there and isolating suspected cases,”said the officer.KDMC will open a testing lab at Gauripada under public-private partnership. The civic body has tied up with Krsnaa Diagnostics, Pune, to set up a lab. Presently, the civic body sends samples to Haffkine Institute for Training, Research and Testing in Parel, Mumbai. It can only send around 60 swabs a day to the institute. With its own lab, more tests can be conducted.“The test report will not be delayed. More tests can be conducted in a day, thus giving a clearer picture of the spread of disease in Kalyan-Dombivli,” said Vinita Rane, mayor, KDMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-positive-cases-in-kalyan-touches-980/story-ANd9evnxGhEIPzNDlcDhBL.html
31-05-2020||Delhi||Most recommendations of Delhi govt about lifting lockdown accepted by Centre: Source||The national capital is ready resume normal functioning after over two months as most recommendations of the city government’s about lifting the coronavirus-triggered lockdown have been accepted by the Centre, sources said on Saturday.The Home Ministry on Saturday said ‘Unlock-1’ will be initiated in the country from June 8 under which the nationwide lockdown effectuated on March 25 will be relaxed to a great extent, including opening of shopping malls, restaurants and religious places, even as strict restrictions will remain in place till June 30 in the country’s worst-hit areas.“Practically almost all the recommendations of Delhi government have been included in the MHA guidelines which means normal activities will resume in the city in the next few days. “A final announcement about lifting of restrictions is likely to be made tomorrow, after going through the guidelines and standard operating procedures of the Centre,” a source in the Delhi government said.The shopping malls, closed since in the city since March 23, is most likely to open from June 8 as the Delhi government had recommended to reopen shops in malls on odd-even basis. The MHA guidelines have also paved way for opening of religious places. But resumption of Delhi Metro services will have to wait for third phase of lifting of restrictions as per the MHA guidelines.Delhi government is in favour of resumption of Metro services to revive normal transport and commercial activities.As per its recommendation to enhance timing of opening markets, the MHA has extended curfew timings. The shops that stayed open from 7 am to 7 pm can keep their shutters up till 9pm.The MHA has said that lockdown will continue till June 30 in containment zones to be be demarcated by district authorities.Delhi currently has 122 containment zones -- areas three or more Covid-19 cases have been found. So far 53 containment zone have been decontained after no fresh cases were reported in 28 days, according to official data. A record single-day spike of 1,163 fresh cases took the Covid-19 tally in Delhi to over 18,000 on Saturday and the death toll due to the disease mounted to 416, authorities said.The previous highest spike in fresh cases -- 1106 -- was recorded on May 29. This is the second consecutive day in Delhi when over 1,100 Covid-19 cases have been reported in a day.“Delhi government has been in favour of lifting the lockdown restrictions outside containment zones as Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is of the view that lockdown cannot continue indefinitely and we need to learn to live with coronavirus by taking all due precautions,” the source said.“We cannot have a permanent lockdown. No one can predict that the coronavirus will go away if the lockdown is extended for one or two months. We have to learn to live with it and we have to arrange for everything required to treat Covid-19 patients,” Kejriwal said at a press conference on Saturday.The Delhi government will explore the possibility of allowing hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services to function in the light of MHA guidelines, the government source said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/most-recommendations-of-delhi-govt-about-lifting-lockdown-accepted-by-centre-source/story-V32blTpXArdM80Z3IG6b6M.html
31-05-2020||City||Khanna police station torture: Unable to meet SIT officials, LIP leaders remove kurta in protest||High drama was witnessed outside the office of Khanna senior superintendent of police (SP) Harpreet Singh on Saturday as Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) leaders Manwinder Singh Giaspura and Sarabjit Singh Kang, along with their supporters, removed their kurtas in protest after they were not allowed to meet the SIT officials looking into the police station torture case.The case pertains to the alleged stripping and torture of a former sarpanch’s husband, her son and husband’s aide by inspector Baljinder Singh, the former station house officer (SHO) of Khanna. A video purportedly showing the incident was also circulated on social media sites.The special investigation team (SIT), formed by DGP Dinkar Gupta, was in town to investigate the matter when LIP leaders, along with their supporters, demanded to meet them. The party leaders said that there were several other people who wanted to file their complaints against the former SHO for torture.“We came here to meet additional director general of police (ADGP) Dr Naresh Arora, who is heading the SIT, but weren’t allowed. We staged a protest following which the SSP has assured us that he will arrange a meeting with SIT members, but after sometime, the ADGP left the office. In protest, we have removed our kurtas,” said Giaspura.The LIP leader also alleged that instead of taking action against the SHO, police have transferred the inspector to Ferozepur. He demanded an FIR against the SHO and his dismissal from the force. “If an FIR is not lodged against the former SHO, we will block national highway,” he added.Later, superintendent of police (SP, detective) Jagwinder Singh received complaints from the complainants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/khanna-police-station-torture-unable-to-meet-sit-officials-lip-leaders-remove-kurta-in-protest/story-j3uqyS0CfDM0ArasZWb7EK.html
31-05-2020||Mumbai||State proposes submerged plateau off Malvan to be declared as protected area||Less than a week before World Environment Day (June 5), the Maharashtra forest department has proposed the declaration of the 2,011 sq km Angria Bank as a protected area.The proposal seeks to declare Angria Bank as a ‘Designated Area’ under the Maritime Zones Act, 1976, which if approved by the Centre, will be the first such marine protected zone in India located in the exclusive economic zone (EEZ).Angria Bank, 105 km (56.7 nautical miles) off Malvan in the Sindhudurg district of Konkan region, is considered a submerged plateau. The coral formation, located at a depth of 20 to 400 metres, consists of 29 genera and 39 species of both hard and soft corals with the reef showing no evident signs of bleaching (turning white due to rising sea surface temperatures as an aftermath of climate change) yet. This is based on an expedition carried out in collaboration with Centre for Marine Living Resources (CMLRE) under the Ministry of Earth Sciences, Mangrove Foundation and Wildlife Conservation Society between December 18 and 30.The study found 123 species of fish, 43 species of invertebrates, numerous species of dolphins and whales among other marine animals including the critically endangered sawfish, which is protected under schedule 1 of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. The proposed boundary for protection is approximately 61-km long and 50-km wide.Though India may miss its international Aichi target of identifying 10% marine-protected areas by 2020, protecting Angria Bank will contribute to it since limited marine areas around the country are currently protected.Aichi targets are an international framework of identifying wildlife and marine protected areas by 2020 developed by the International Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD). The proposal to conserve the area was made by the state mangrove cell on April 29 and approved by the state chief wildlife warden on May 27. “Though marine regions have been notified as sanctuaries under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, the Union environment ministry does not have powers to afford legal protection to a marine area beyond Indian territorial waters (12 nautical miles) owing to jurisdictional constraints. Thus, protecting this area falls within the purview of the Maritime Zones Act, 1976,” read the proposal. The proposal was submitted before the state government for final approval earlier this week, and will soon be sent to the Union environment ministry. “This will be a feather in the cap for the protected area network for Maharashtra and India. Based on the final approval, we will be able to showcase the marine wealth close to the state’s coastline. Considering the threatened status of the rich coral diversity, protecting this massive area is essential from the conservation point of view,” said Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), Maharashtra.“Protected status will restrict threats such as overfishing, oil, natural gas and mineral exploration, no hindrance for marine traffic, and most importantly protect the coral, algal, and other marine diversity,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (Mangrove cell).On May 6, the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun had also written to the Inspector General of Forests under the Union environment ministry proposing Angria Bank as a ‘Designated Area’ for marine biodiversity conservation under the Maritime Zones Act, 1976. The ministry is yet to respond to WII. Marine biologist Sarang Kulkarni, who carried out the first documentation of the marine biodiversity of Angria Bank in 2010, said, “This is a welcome decision as this area is India’s Great Barrier Reef. While there are reports of coral bleaching across the world, this is one site along the Indian coastline where corals remain untouched despite the rising sea surface temperatures. Enhanced conservation efforts are needed to ensure the biodiversity remains protected.”Angria Bank was identified as one of India’s 106 important coastal and marine biodiversity areas by the Wildlife Institute of India. “While helping achieve the Aichi target 11, protecting the submerged bank will act as an insurance against climate change as the area is a carbon sink providing benefits to the entire country,” said Vardhan Patankar, programme head (marine conservation), WCS-India.Marine biologist Deepak Apte, director, Bombay Natural History Society, said, “This is refreshing news about the state’s intent to declare Angria Bank as protected. It was due to marine biologist Sarang Kulkarni’s efforts, who first video-graphed these reefs and prepared base documents in 2010 that drew focus across international platforms. Subsequent expeditions under Mangrove Foundation provided further scientific evidence of the need for its protection.”Historical significanceAs per a proposal prepared by the Maharashtra forest department to protect the bank, the name Angria was derived from Kanhoji Angre, who served as an admiral under Maratha king Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. Considering the strategic location of the bank, the anchoring point was identified as a naval base for the Maratha empire against the Dutch, British and Portuguese. Using this point, Angre ensured never to allow enemy ships to pass the anchoring point and is said to have not a lost a single battle at sea. His name was spelt as ‘Cunhojee Angria’ in British documents, which led to the name of the submerged plateau as Angria Bank. In 1951, the Indian Navy commemorated their naval prowess by naming the Western Naval Command INS Angre in tribute to Kanhoji Angre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-proposes-submerged-plateau-off-malvan-to-be-declared-as-protected-area/story-Z12GaVMR87JVJ0scdmo0zH.html
31-05-2020||City||Two undertrials among nine fresh Covid-19 cases in Ludhiana||As many as nine Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Ludhiana district on Saturday. These cases, included seven contacts of deceased Pritpal Singh and two undertrials of the Borstal Special Jail here. The total number of cases in the district has now gone up to 194.Pritpal Singh, 51, a resident of Chhawani Mohalla, had died of coronavirus at the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) on Friday, following which samples of his nine family members were taken for testing. Out of the nine samples, seven, including an 11-year-old boy, tested virus positive. Out of the total seven, four are male and three are female members, including the deceased’s wife, elder brother and other family members.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “As many as eight Covid-19 patients have died in the district. A total of 59 rapid response teams conducted screening of 174 residents on Saturday, out of which 139 have been quarantined.”Special Jail superintendent Kulwant Singh said, “The two undertrials, who tested positive, include a resident of Salem Tabri, who is an accused in an attempt to murder case, while the other is a resident of Fatehgarh Churiyan in Gurdaspur district, an accused in a murder case.” The Borstal jail in Ludhiana has been converted into a special jail where new inmates are quarantined.Meanwhile, Pritpal Singh was cremated by the administration on Saturday, as all his family members were quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-undertrials-among-nine-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-ludhiana/story-7EXZ33VLmF0pqxMTdX6B8J.html
31-05-2020||Mumbai||Maha fresh norms expected today?||The state government is expected to issue its revised lockdown guidelines on Sunday. An official said the government is going to provide further relaxations in a “gradual and calibrated manner”, but coronavirus cases are bound to go up as this happens. The official added that the state government is moving “cautiously” and relaxations would be given on the degree of “contact” and “essential” nature of the service.Covid-19 hotspot areas such as Mumbai, MMR and Pune are likely to remain under lockdown even as the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Saturday issued guidelines for the phased reopening of activities outside containment zones. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has already indicated that he is not keen to lift curbs in Mumbai, Pune and MMR.The MHA, in its guidelines, has allowed opening up of religious places/places of worship, hotels, restaurants, and other hospitality services, and shopping malls from June 8. The state government has not decided yet, but is unlikely to allow the opening of malls, among others.“We are moving with caution. It is known that cases do surge when relaxations are lifted. We have been preparing for it. Besides that, providing relaxations in curbs would depend on the degree of contact among people, how essential is the service that is being allowed. Mode of transport is also a criteria being looked at, while allowing anything,” said a senior official requesting anonymity. Officials said that there could be some relaxations given in Mumbai, MMR and Pune to restart economic activities, including opening of standalone shops. The state government has already asked the Centre to restart Mumbai suburban train services for essential services providers, including doctors, nurses, healthcare staffers and civic body employees.“So far no decision has been taken, but a majority of the curbs will remain in place in the red zone. However, deliberations are on to allow the opening of standalone shops, allowing morning walk on a trial basis, but if there is crowding, it would be suspended,” a senior bureaucrat said. The government is also considering if private offices can be allowed to resume operation with less staff. However, without public transport, relaxations could not work.Besides that, the state government could remove some of the municipal corporations, excluding municipal corporations of Mumbai, Pune, from the red zone category. Dhule, Solapur, Aurangabad, Malegaon, Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon, Akola, Amravati and Nagpur cities are in the red zone.Depending on the number of cases rising daily, a particular municipal corporation could be put in non-red zone where economic and industrial activities could commence, officials said. “Like it was done earlier, surrounding areas of Pune were not kept in the red zone as the Covid-19 cases were in control. Secondly, several industries are there in the belt, which have been reopened,” he added.Semi-urban areas and rural areas fall under the non-red zone category, where a chunk of activities has been allowed from May 22. The state government is, however, unlikely to open up inter-district travel as they are seeing a rise in cases in rural areas after travel relaxation from urban areas was provided.Thackeray has directed district authorities to strengthen healthcare infrastructure across as relaxations would lead to an increase in cases. Mumbai, Thane and Pune have been ramping up capacity of beds. “It is expected that once further relaxation is provided, Covid-19 cases would go up. Our top consideration is to look at the extent and acceleration of the spread in the state. We have already started to strengthen the health infrastructure to tackle the surge,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-fresh-norms-expected-today/story-RKGTa3I4XtdBJgznqPvM9M.html
31-05-2020||Mumbai||State hikes petrol and diesel prices by ₹2 each||The Maharashtra government on Saturday decided to charge additional cess of ₹2 per litre each both on petrol and diesel. The new prices will come into effect from June 1. The decision was taken to tide over the financial crisis being faced by the state government after a lockdown was imposed from March 23 to contain the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.In Mumbai, as on May 30, petrol prices are in the range of ₹76.25 to ₹76.31 per litre, while diesel prices are in the range of ₹66.15 to ₹21 per litre. The state charges cess of ₹8.12 per litre on petrol and ₹1 on diesel. This has been increased to ₹10.12 per litre and ₹3 per litre respectively, said a senior official from finance department.The state government is expecting an increased revenue of ₹3,000 crore in this financial year (₹300 crore a month) from the hike, said the official.The financial crisis has led the state government to declare a 67% cut in its spending for developmental works this fiscal, in view of the estimated revenue losses of more than Rs40,000 crore in March and April 2020, owing to the Covid-19 outbreak.The state, expecting the cumulative losses to be more than Rs50,000 crore in the current fiscal, has also decided to not take up new development schemes and scrap or defer the schemes that can be put on hold. Among other measures, the government has also decided to stop recruitment for government jobs, meaning that recruitment underway for 35,000 posts is unlikely now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-hikes-petrol-and-diesel-prices-by-2-each/story-Jz753Vz40Gqqa7fOzre26N.html
31-05-2020||Chandigarh||Computers, documents gutted at Panjab University’s botany department||A minor fire broke out at Panjab University’s botany department on Saturday.The incident was reported at around 4.30pm after a security guard found smoke billowing out from an office room of the department. The fire was controlled after that.Ashwani Koul, PU’s chief of university security, said, “We had called the fire service but it was controlled by the security personnel of the university.”As per sources, a few computers and documents were destroyed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/computers-documents-gutted-at-panjab-university-s-botany-department/story-DmAQWw231fTYnA52wBx8gL.html
31-05-2020||Mumbai||State sees 2,940 cases, 99 deaths; 51% casualties happened in past fortnight||Maharashtra on Saturday recorded 2,940 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, its second-highest spike in a day so far. With this, the state has also crossed the grim 65,000 mark as the case count stands at 65,168. Of them, 34,881 are active cases, which accounts for 53.52% of the total infections, according to the state health department.On Saturday, it also reported 99 deaths, third highest in a day. The toll stands at 2,197. Of them, 40 deaths are from the past two days, while the rest are from the past 22 days, said health department.The data also showed that the state recorded 1,129 deaths in the past 15 days. This is more than 51% of the total deaths — 2,197 — registered so far. Mumbai also reported 1,510 new cases on Saturday. With this, the tally of the city reached 38,442 cases. Of them, 20,845 are active cases. On May 22, Mumbai had reported the highest one-day spike in cases — 1,751.On Friday, the state had recorded 116 fatalities, highest so far. However, the government had clarified that 70 of them were from the past 13 days. Of the 99 fatalities, 54 are in Mumbai, seven each in Vasai-Virar and Panvel, six each in Thane, Pune and Solapur, three each in Raigad and Jalgaon, two each in Navi Mumbai and Kalyan-Dombivli and one died in Nagpur. Also, two patients each from Bihar and Rajasthan died in Mumbai and Panvel respectively. Of total deaths, 48 were above 60 years of age, while 49 were in the age group of 40 to 59 years and the remaining two were below the age of 40 years. Of the deceased, 66 had high-risk co-morbidities, including diabetes, hypertension and heart ailments, health officials said.The mortality rate has also slightly increased to 3.37% (2,098 deaths on May 29) from 3.27% (1792 deaths on May 26. It is also more than the national mortality rate, which is 2.86%, with 4,971 deaths till Friday, stated the data from the state medical education department. However, the state has also succeeded in bringing down the mortality rate significantly from the last month. On April 13, the mortality rate of the state was 7.41%. (148 deaths). This indicates improvement of 4.4%, the data shows.A senior official said that they have found 11 mutations of the virus and the virus is behaving differently with different patients. “Actually, we know nothing about coronavirus. All we know about it is that it is extremely infectious and spreads very fast. The virus is behaving differently and is also mutating. We have found 11 mutants of the virus recently,” the official said, wishing not to be named.State health minister Rajesh Tope said the death rate is little over three per cent, which means 97% people may have recovered. “We have brought down the death rate to only 3.33%, it also means 97% patients may have recovered,” Tope said.He further said that 83% of the total patients are asymptomatic and only 15-16% patients have mild or moderate symptoms. Also, only 1.5% patients are on ventilator. Overall, the situation is under control and there is nothing to worry about.Beside this, fresh cases are also rising in the state and it is found that maximum cases were found in May month. Of 65,168 cases as many as 54,836 cases are reported in the last 30 days. It is 84.14% of the total cases.Figures indicate that on an average, it is getting over 1,827 fresh cases daily.The data also shows that since the past 13 days, the state is daily getting over 2,000 cases except on May 24 when 3,041, the highest single-day spike, was reported.On May 17, there were 2,347 cases, May 18 had 2,033 new infections, May 19 saw 2,127, May 20 had 2,250, May 21 saw 2,345, May 22 had 2,940, May 23 had 2,608 cases, May 25 saw 2,436, May 26 had 2,091, May 27 had 2,190, May 28 saw 2,598 and on May 29, 2682 cases were reported.The total number of cases registered in April was 10,201.The first case of coronavirus was reported on March 9 and it took 30 days for the state to cross the 1,000 mark.Coming on to the fact that Mumbai has 38,442 cases, the health minister said 16,364 patients have been discharged. “The recovery in Mumbai is almost 50%. The availability of beds in the city is an issue which will be resolved in the coming days as we are getting around 12,000 beds from 53 major private hospitals taken over by the state. In addition, 7,000 beds are going to be available after new field hospitals at Goregaon, Mahalaxmi race course, Mulund, Dahisar and Richardson and Cruddas Company at Byculla will be functional in the next few days,” he added. Tope said the doubling rate of the cases also increased to 17.5 days, which was 11.5 days till last week. The number of recoveries in the state has also jumped to 28,081 as 1,084 patients recovered on Saturday. The recovery rate is 43.07%, said a health official. The health department also declared to have conducted 4,47,772 tests at various public and private facilities across Maharashtra. Of them, 3,82,604 people tested negative, said an official. State currently has 3,169 active containment zones. A total of 17,917 survey teams, comprising doctors and assisting staff, have screened more than 68.51 lakh people. So far, 35,420 people have been kept in institutional quarantine in the state and over 5,51,660 people have been put under home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-sees-2-940-cases-99-deaths-51-casualties-happened-in-past-fortnight/story-t1PXxwsVlCIUo2WLnq1ZjL.html
31-05-2020||Chandigarh||World Tobacco Day: Shops inspected in Mohali to ensure hygiene||On the occasion of World Tobacco Day, teams led Dr Dilbagh Singh, senior medical officer at Primary Health Centre, Boothgarh, inspected various shops at Majri block and Khizrabad village in Mohali district, on Saturday. During the inspection, 56 people were challaned for smoking in public.The SMO said that a sustained campaign in accordance with objectives of ‘Mission Tandarust Punjab’ is underway to make people aware of the adverse effects of tobacco products. Besides this, ANMs, CHOs, field staff and ASHA Workers have been directed to spread awareness in 120 villages under Boothgarh Block about the harmful effects of tobacco and precautionary measures to curb the spread of Covid-19, including social distancing, wearing masks using sanitisers.Apart from this, it was also emphasised that sale of tobacco products is prohibited within 100 yards of educational institutions and religious places. The shopkeepers were also warned that sale of tobacco products to the minors would result in imprisonment of upto seven years and fine of ₹1 lakh. The shopkeepers were exhorted to keep the surroundings of their shops hygienic. They were also asked to keep products being sold at their shops fully covered and not to sell substandard items which can lead to diseases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/world-tobacco-day-shops-inspected-in-mohali-to-ensure-hygiene/story-lreOEg16WaFuGgLB5lxYTL.html
31-05-2020||City||18 AFPI cadets pass out of NDA||Mohali Eighteen cadets of the Maharaja Ranjit Singh Armed Forces Preparatory Institute (AFPI) passed out of the National Defence Academy (NDA) in Khadakwasla, Pune, on Saturday.The parade of the 138th NDA course, marking the culmination of three years of rigorous training, is a cherished event for any cadet. However, celebrations were low-key because of the Covid-19 precautionary measures. instead of a grand parade at the iconic Khetarpal Drill Square, a solemn ceremony was held in Habibulah Hall, the NDAs main auditorium. Only cadets of the passing out course and some members of the faculty attended the event, which was presided over by the Commandant, Lt Gen Asit Mistry. A total of 335 cadets graduated from the academy, including 226 from the Army , 44 from the Navy and 65 from the Air Forc. About 20 cadets from foreign countries were also part of the ceremony.A release from AFPI said many cadets who trained at the institute held senior appointments in the passing out course, including academy cadet Adjutant Loveneet Singh, battalion cadet Captain Rajdeep Singh and squadron cadet Captain Arunav Laroiya. They were part of the 5th AFPI Course (2016 – 17). Adjutant Loveneet Singh was awarded the Commandant’s medal for dedication to duty and Captain Arunav Laroiya was awarded the commandant’s medal for exceptional leadership.Loveneet Singh’s father Rupinder Singh is a farmer who belongs to Jalalabad East in Dharamkot tehsil and Laroiya’s father is assistant general manager (IT) from Patiala. Rajdeep Singh’s parents are teachers from Nangli village in Baba Bakala tehsil.Given the circumstances the cadets, instead of taking leave as per regular routine, will be proceeding to their respective service academies shortly.Cadets in the 8th AFPI Course completed their training at the Institute in April this year and were scheduled to join NDA in July, but the commencement of the next NDA course is likely to be delayed because of non-completion of all SSB interviews so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/18-afpi-cadets-pass-out-of-nda/story-G2ktttCA4WByx16vkNad4L.html
31-05-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana college conducts online counselling session on job opportunities||The placement cell of BCM College of Education, Ludhiana, in collaboration with the district bureau of employment and enterprises (DBEE), conducted an online counselling session to make students aware of job opportunities offered by the bureau, on Saturday.The resource persons for the event were Ramandeep, employment generation and training officer, DBEE, and Nidhi, career counselor, DBEE.Ramandeep shared online material to prepare for competitive examinations including Staff Selection Commission (SSC), Combined Graduate Level (CGL) and Punjab Civil Services (PCS).Nidhi spoke on the importance of communication, employability, pedagogical skills, content and technological knowledge for a teacher. She made students aware of the Punjab Ghar Ghar Rozgar and Karobar Mission (PGRKAM) and important helpline numbers. The resource persons also answered queries of students. Jasdeep Kaur, placement officer of the college, thanked the resources persons for sharing their insight on job avenues with the students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-college-conducts-online-counselling-session-on-job-opportunities/story-pB4ywlYk3PZH0VRTuiqRLI.html
31-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Shiv Sena, parents protest outside MLA’s house over fee collection by schools in Ludhiana||Members of Shiv Sena, Punjab, and parents of students from various schools in Ludhiana held a protest outside the residence of Ludhiana central constituency MLA Surinder Dawar on Saturday over private schools charging tuition fees amid the Covid-19 lockdown. They submitted a memorandum to the MLA who assured the parents that the matter would be taken up with the education minister.Chairman of Shiv Sena, Punjab, Rajiv Tandon, said, “Private schools have been sending messages on WhatsApp groups created by teachers and highlighting the students whose parents have not submitted the fee. They should not be allowed to charge fees as classes have been suspended. The government needs to intervene and take a decision to provide relief to the parents.”“Parents have taken huge economic losses and lost jobs in the last two months. How will they pay the fee? If the state government fails to provide relief, then we will continue protesting,” he added.On May 27, the members protested outside the deputy commissioner’s office and submitted a memorandum to him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-shiv-sena-parents-protest-outside-mla-s-house-over-fee-collection-by-schools-in-ludhiana/story-bILWRQCQPfS7glhS5SOFAJ.html
31-05-2020||City||3 held for assaulting temple priest near Mumbai, stealing ₹6.8K from donation box||Virar police arrested three people for allegedly assaulting a 54-year-old priest and care-taker of a temple with boulders and sticks and stealing ₹6,800 from the donation box on Thursday morning.The priest, Shankaranand Dayanand Saraswati, who lives inside the temple at Bhalivali village, Virar off the Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway, was asleep when the attack took place. Another care-taker of the temple, Shyamsingh Thakur, was also sleeping in the temple premises. The three accused – Anil Bhujad, his brother Sunil and a man identified as Karela – entered the temple and assaulted Saraswati and Thakur.“As Saraswati was grievously injured in the attack and Thakur rushed outside the premises to call for help, the three accused took away the donation box containing ₹6,800, a copper urn and other valuables from the temple. They also shattered the window panes of the temple,” said a Virar police officer.The police registered a case under sections 394 (injury while robbery) and 427 (mischief) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and arrested the three men on Thursday evening, based on the description given by the Saraswati and Thakur. The accused were produced before the Vasai court on Friday and sent to police custody. “We only recovered some of the money stolen from the temple and are investigating the case further,” the officer said.The development comes a month after three people, including two seers, were lynched by a mob of more than 500 locals in Gaddchinchale village in Palghar’s Kasa area. More than 150 people were arrested by the Maharashtra Criminal Investigation Department (CID) for murder, attempt to murder and on other charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-held-for-assaulting-temple-priest-near-mumbai-stealing-6-8k-from-donation-box/story-l3IAarTJHyacGpJHaYCXRI.html
31-05-2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Court asks Mumbai hospital to submit health report of Varavara Rao||The special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Saturday asked Sir JJ Hospital to submit a report on 81-year-old Telugu activist and poet P Varavara Rao’s health by June 2, when the court is scheduled to hear his interim bail plea. Rao was arrested in 2018 in connection with the Elgar Parishad case.On Thursday evening, Rao was rushed to Sir JJ Hospital from Taloja jail after he fell unconscious. His family, however, was informed about his hospitalisation on Friday evening, and hence could approach the special court only on Saturday. In the plea filed through lawyers Nilesh Ukey and Arif Siddiqui, the accused’s family sought direction to the hospital to give Rao’s detailed medical report.Rao earlier moved a plea for an interim bail, following which the court asked Taloja prison authorities to provide the accused’s medical report. However, on Thursday when the case came up for hearing, the prison authorities failed to submit the report, after which the court sent them a reminder to submit the report and scheduled the hearing on June 2. Meanwhile on Saturday, Rao’s wife P Hemalatha released a statement, in which she urged the Centre and the Maharashtra and Telangana governments to provide exact details of her husband’s health condition. She also urged the three governments to release her ailing husband on bail immediately owing to his health condition. “Through the local Chikkadapalli police in Hyderabad, we came to know around 8.30pm on Friday that Varavara Rao’s health condition was precarious and he was moved to Sir JJ Hospital, Mumbai from Taloja jail. They [Telangana Police] told us that they got that one sentence information from Pune Police and did not know any further details,” read her statement.Hemalatha pleaded to the authorities to conduct a proper medical check-up of her husband and permit video conferencing with him to know his actual health condition. “I am not in a position to travel to Mumbai as I am 72 and not in good health and have been under severe stress for the past 12-14 hours in particular and 18 months in general,” her statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-court-asks-mumbai-hospital-to-submit-health-report-of-varavara-rao/story-pnLO4Sy6anpNsPxEp93C5L.html
31-05-2020||City||Thane civic body staffer dies of Covid-19 on the day he was to retire||A 58-year-old assistant tax inspector of Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) died due to Covid-19 on Saturday – the same day he was about to retire from service. This is the first coronavirus death of an employee reported in the Thane civic body. The tax inspector was posted at quarantine centres in Bhayandar Pada on Ghodbunder Road and contracted the virus from the area, TMC officials said. On May 18, he was tested positive and admitted to Horizon Prime Hospital. “The assistant tax inspector was discharged from the hospital last week after recovery. But he was admitted again after two days, as his health deteriorated. He also suffered from diabetes, hypertension and asthma and was on ventilator. His wife and two sons were also hospitalised after being tested positive, but they recovered after treatment,” said Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC. The assistant tax inspector’s colleague from Majiwada Manpada ward said he was looking forward to retirement. “He was proficient in his work and achieved 108% target of tax collection. This year too, he was aiming to meet a target of 102%. He was among the list of 64 employees who were to retire today and was looking forward to life after retirement. We never thought he will not make it,” his colleague said. The Municipal Labour Union alleged that most staffers above 55 years are on Covid duty despite suffering from comorbidities. “The assistant tax inspector reached retirement age and had several health conditions. Why was he then posted at a quarantine centre despite being in the high-risk category?” Ravi Rao, president of union said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-civic-body-staffer-dies-of-covid-19-on-the-day-he-was-to-retire/story-ozehoW3v6wyzvKpKucGn2J.html
31-05-2020||Mumbai||67% drop in NO2, 39% in particulate matter during three phases of lockdown||A 67% drop in nitrogen dioxide (NO2) levels while a 39% drop for particulate matter (PM2.5 and PM10) were recorded during three phases of the lockdown in the city as compared to the same period in 2019, states an analysis by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR).The three phases, first period from March 25 to April 14, second from April 15 to May 3, and the third from May 4 to 17, saw maximum percentage decline for NO2 during the first two weeks (72.4%). PM2.5 levels fell maximum during lockdown 2.0 by (50.3%). PM10 also saw maximum reduction during the second phase by 52.6%. However, there was a lower percentage reduction in all three pollutants NO2 (59.5%), PM2.5 (32.3%), and PM10 (24.6%) during lockdown 3.0, as compared to levels during the same period in 2019.Nitrogen dioxide is a toxic gas that contributes to aerosol formation that can worsen respiratory conditions formed from the burning of coal, oil, and vehicular emissions. PM2.5 is breathable particulate matter which is 2.5 microns in size or smaller while PM10 are larger particles. Both can cause health complications.“The analysis shows us that the reduction percentage kept declining with time because values were getting saturated at the lowest possible natural levels or background levels,” said Gufran Beig, director, SAFAR. “This means that during the first phase maximum reduction in vehicular emission allowed NO2 levels to fall to its lowest but reduction in PM levels fell by around 34% because they are secondary pollutants from vehicular emissions. However, by the second phase, NO2 gradually declined from the background level while PM levels fell to its lowest. By the third, percentage reduction gradually declined as base levels for both pollutants were reached in previous phases.”On comparing drop in pollutant percentages with other cities, Pune showed a maximum decline in NO2 followed by Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Delhi, while PM decline was maximum in Ahmedabad, Delhi, followed by Mumbai and Pune. “The impact of unseasonal showers helped reduced pollutant concentrations for cities like Pune and Delhi during lockdown 3.0,” added Beig.While the analysis of the fourth lockdown 4.0 is being compiled by his team, Beig added that with pre-monsoon showers predicted for Mumbai next week, low pollution levels are expected to maintain. “The impact on monsoon will show a further decline and how much more background pollutant levels can fall during lockdown 5.0,” said Beig.PM concentration, year’s lowest on SaturdayThe concentration of PM2.5 was the lowest this year, at 15 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3), on Saturday morning which increased to 22 µg/m3 by the evening. SAFAR said the drop was due to a light drizzle between Friday night and Saturday morning. The World Health Organization (WHO) PM2.5 safe standard for 24 hours is 25 µg/m3, while the national safe standard is 60 µg/m3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/67-drop-in-no2-39-in-particulate-matter-during-three-phases-of-lockdown/story-t9daEKUvZMZcKKiGuvOsTJ.html
31-05-2020||City||GRP personnel in Mumbai succumbs to coronavirus 10 days after kin dies||An assistant sub-inspector posted with the Andheri unit of the government railway police (GRP) died of coronavirus at Sion Hospital on Saturday, 10 days after his 70-year-old mother passed away owing to Covid-19. The 57-year-old GRP personnel was in the service for 33 years and had a few months left for retirement. His mother had tested positive for Covid-19 on May 3 and admitted to Sion Hospital. He, his wife and their daughter would visit the hospital regularly. On May 15, he got himself tested, but his results came negative, said a GRP officer.The personnel reported to duty despite suffering from diabetes and blood pressure. Bharat Chaudhary, senior police inspector at GRP’s Andheri unit, said, “On May 19, the personnel’s mother passed away after which he stopped reporting to duty. He also fell ill and went for a test again on May 25. His results came positive for Covid-19 and he was admitted to Sion Hospital. But his health deteriorated and he passed away around Saturday noon at the hospital.” His wife and daughter, too, will be tested now, to ascertain if they have contracted the virus.According to one of his colleagues, the GRP personnel, a resident of Marol, Andheri (East), had the option to remain home, as the directives passed by the state allowed police personnel over the age of 55 years or with comorbidities to do so. However, he opted to be report to duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/grp-personnel-in-mumbai-succumbs-to-coronavirus-10-days-after-kin-dies/story-cLnYtGfjhKwiayJ6QULxnN.html
31-05-2020||Mumbai||CM: Hold final-year exams ensuring no one gets infected||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray said on Saturday that final-year university exams should be conducted while ensuring not a single student is infected of Covid-19. However, the dates of the examination have not been decided yet. Thackeray also directed the vice-chancellors and officials to explore other options including an alternative where students opt for grades based on the previous semester’s performance or take the examination. A legal opinion will be sought in this matter.“University examinations should be held ensuring not a single student gets infected by coronavirus. The worries of students and parents should be ended by determining the exact method of examination and by finalising the timetable,” Thackeray said, as per the statement from the chief minister’s office (CMO).The decision was taken in the meeting between the CM, higher and technical education minister Uday Samant and vice-chancellors of all state universities on Saturday via video-conferencing.“It was also discussed whether students should be given an option to choose if they wish to give the final-year exam or they want to opt for grades based on the earlier semesters’ performance. A legal opinion will be sought on it,” a Mantralaya official said.The vice-chancellors and Samant are divided over the issue after the minister wrote to the University Grants Commission (UGC) seeking to cancel final-year exam. Following which, Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari wrote to the CM objecting to the move and directed him to resolve the issue. There are around eight lakh final-year students in the state, and 1.5 lakh are from University of Mumbai (MU).The final-year examination had become a flashpoint between the state government and the Governor. Koshyari had asked Thackeray to issue suitable instructions as not conducting final-year exams would be in violation of UGC guidelines and the provisions of the Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016. Shiv Sena’s youth wing, Yuva Sena, headed by Aaditya Thackeray, had demanded that exams should be cancelled while BJP-backed Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) was pressing the Governor to hold the exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cm-hold-final-year-exams-ensuring-no-one-gets-infected/story-JtIp392Qd1hfhOvlLLi7sO.html
31-05-2020||Mumbai||23-year-old woman moves HC to abort 24-week foetus||A 23-year-old unmarried woman from Ratnagiri district has moved the Bombay high court (HC) seeking termination of her 24-week pregnancy that resulted from a consensual relationship.Acting on her plea, a bench of justice Nitin Jamdar and justice NR Borkar on Friday directed the civil surgeon, Ratnagiri to set up a board consisting of doctors qualified and suitable to give an opinion as envisaged under section 3 of the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act, 1971.The woman has been ordered to appear before the board on May 30, following which the board has been directed to submit its report to the HC by June 1. The woman’s petition will come up for further hearing on June 2.The woman moved the HC seeking permission to medically terminate her advanced pregnancy contending that “being an unmarried single woman delivering the child will be a social stigma and she cannot carry on the pregnancy and raise the child”.Her counsel, advocate Harshad Bhadbhade pointed out that the woman became aware that she was pregnant only on May 20. The pregnancy was the outcome of a consensual relationship with a man, from whom the 23-year-old has since separated.Bhadbhade submitted even such factual situation was covered under the MTP Act, 1971 and necessary direction allowing termination of the pregnancies advanced beyond the statutory limit of 20 weeks can be issued even in such cases.Section 3 of the MTP Act allows medical termination of a pregnancy with a gestation of 12 to 20 weeks, only if at least two registered medical practitioners are of the opinion, formed in good faith, that continuance of the pregnancy would involve a risk to the life of the pregnant woman or of grave injury physical or mental health; or there is a substantial risk that if the child were born, it would suffer from such physical or mental abnormalities as to be seriously handicapped.Explanation to the section clarifies that where the pregnancy is alleged to have been caused by rape or it occurs as a result of failure of any family planning device or method, the anguish caused by such unwanted pregnancy may be presumed to constitute a grave injury to the mental health of the pregnant woman, and thus permits MTP in these two additional categories.MTP of pregnancies advanced beyond the statutory limit of 20 weeks are done only on orders of the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/23-year-old-woman-moves-hc-to-abort-24-week-foetus/story-5sFHyVglgTNzRbK9tPKwDJ.html
31-05-2020||Pune||Travel agent held in Pune for duping labourers by promising Shramik train tickets||A travel agent was arrested by Pune police crime branch for allegedly duping migrant labourers seeking tickets for West Bengal-bound Shramik special trains. The trains are meant to ferry migrant labourers home.The accused has been identified as Dinesh Brijraj Singh, 35, a resident of Pune railway station area.“The accused is listed on a local search engine as a travel agent for railway tickets. The labourers shared their numbers with Brijraj, who was seeking money from them to book their train tickets,” said senior inspector Mahendra Jagtap of Unit 2 of Pune police crime branch.According to the police, labourers without token are allowed to board trains at the Pune station if seats are vacant.Crime branch officials called the number, based on a tip, and asked for a ticket to West Bengal and caught him red-handed near a petrol pump located near Pune station around 6 pm on Friday demanding Rs 1,500-2,000. The police are investigating if he had duped labourers on the same pretext in the past.A case under Sections 420 (punishment for cheating), 511 ( attempting to commit offences punishable with imprisonment for life or other imprisonment), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 11 of Maharastra Covid-19 Regulation, 2020 was registered against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/travel-agent-held-for-duping-labourers-by-promising-shramik-train-tickets/story-Tzc4IZ9qMgx59S7EJREvNI.html
31-05-2020||Pune||Cop among 8 held in Pimpri-Chinchwad for gathering outside prison to welcome parolees, violating lockdown norms||An official of the Pimpri-Chinchwad police crime branch was among the eight people arrested for gathering outside Yerawada Central Jail and violating lockdown restrictions by celebrating the release of two murder accused on Friday evening.The two accused for whom the congregation had gathered fled from the spot. They have been identified as Sameer Mulani and Jamir, said officials.“We have arrested eight persons. One of them is Pimpri-Chinchwad police naik Sharif Baban Mulani. The accused are in three-day police custody,” said inspector (crime) Ravindra Kadam of Vishrantwadi police station.The arrested have been identified as Baban, 36, a resident of Indrayaninagar in Bhosari; Azad Sheikhlal Mulani, 30, a resident of Talwade in Chikhali; Adesh Dilip Onkade, 21, a resident of Sayonagar in Nigdi; Mubarak Baban Mulani, 38, a resident of More vasti in Chikhali; Sandeep Kisan Garud, 40, a resident of Talegaon Dabhade; Hussain Jafar Mulani, 43; Siraj Raju Mulani, 22 and Vinod Narayan Mane, 26, all residents of Mulshi.“Police naik Sharif Mulani was on unauthorised absence. He was deputed on corona duty at Bhosari police station. He has been suspended. Departmental action will follow,” said Sudhir Hiremath, deputy commissioner of police, Pimpri-Chinchwad . According to the complaint filed by police naik Shekhar Balasaheb Kharade of Vishrantwadi police station, who was present at the spot, the men were on multiple motorcycles and four cars. They were seen shouting while celebrating the release of the parolees.The accused were not wearing masks, according to the police. After detaining them, the police frisked them and found a firearm from their possession. Four cars, including two Toyota Fortuner, one Maruti Swift and one Scorpio, were seized by the police.A case under Sections for rioting, 341, 188, 269, and 270 of Indian Penal Code, 1860, along with Section 51(b) of National Disaster Management Act, 2000; Section 11 of Maharashtra Covid19 Prevention Regulation, 2020; Section 37(1)(3) with 135 of Maharashtra Police Act, 1951, and Section 3(25) of Arms Act, 1959 has been registered at Vishrantwadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/cop-among-8-held-for-gathering-outside-prison-to-welcome-parolees-violating-lockdown-norms/story-JREMyJR2S6whumVRbuRLFJ.html
31-05-2020||Pune||Pune fireman fights Covid, on fire with confidence to resume duty||Part of essential services, risk, danger and safety sums up a fire personnel’s job profile. The coronavirus situation has lifted their safety resolve a notch higher. Three staff of Pune fire brigade have been infected with Covid-19 while on duty, and they are willing to resume work after recovery. Fireman Anup Sable, 50, was the first to be contracted by the virus while carrying out his responsibilities as a driver. He was tested positive on May 5, and will resume duty on June 15 after the mandatory home quarantine. Sable lives near Tadiwala road, one of the hotspots in the city. “We are trained to put our lives at risk to safeguard residents, be it fire or an unprecedented situation like Covid-19,” he said. Prashant Ranpise, Pune chief fire officer, said, “Firemen are also Covid warriors. Instead of fire or disasters, we are now fighting coronavirus. Our routine work has been replaced with spraying disinfectants and catering to the needs of the civic body and the city to contain the spread of the virus. Unfortunately in this process, my men are also exposed to the virus. Till date, about three of our staff have been infected, including a driver, a senior staffer and a fireman. The driver has recovered and the other two are in quarantine centres.” Sable, who has been working in Pune fire brigade for over 24 years, said that he faces social boycott post-recovery. “People walk away from me when they see me on the housing colony premises as there is a general fear among public over the virus spread. I am eager to resume duty and serve people.” Sable’s medical expense was covered by Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) insurance, but he had to pay for preliminary and confirmation tests.Sable visited a private hospital when he experienced fever, cough and breathlessness, the first symptoms of Covid-19, and he was advised to take antibiotics. When his medical conditions did not improve, he got himself tested for Covid-19 at another private hospital and the tests came positive on May 5.“I immediately called my wife (47) and daughter (20) to get themselves admitted too and they also turned positive. I was on duty on May 1, a day before I got the symptoms. As it had rained heavily, a tree collapse was reported and I went with team to clear the area. I also visited Naidu hospital for personal work. I do not know how or where I got infected and there is no point in blaming anyone. Fortunately, I and my family underwent treatment and are cured.”The family of three returned home after completing their treatment and are since then in home quarantine. Sable said, “Although I have tested negative in the second confirmation tests before discharge, I feel a bit weak. I also have diabetes and high blood pressure and so will take proper rest before resuming duty.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-fireman-fights-covid-on-fire-with-confidence-to-resume-duty/story-rvkGTvuo0JuAXlVD7a1IdK.html
31-05-2020||Pune||8 deaths,108 Covid-19 positive cases in Pune on Saturday||The city reported eight deaths in 24 hours and 108 positive cases of Covid-19 taking the count of progressive positive cases in the city to 6,201 and death toll to 308. The number of discharged also went to 3,644 in the city including 194 who were discharged on Saturday. Out of the 2,248 active patients, 170 are critical. Out of the total deaths reported on Saturday, three deaths were reported from Sassoon General Hospital (SGH), which include a 74-year-old male residing at Tadiwala road who was suffering from Covid-19 with bilateral pneumonia. He died due to acute respiratory failure. Another 63-year-old female from Bibvewadi died on Saturday morning at 7.50am due to multiple organs dysfunction syndrome (MODS) with acute respiratory failure with myocarditis. She was suffering from diabetes, hypertension, acute pancreatitis, and pneumonitis. The third death was of an 80-year-old male from Parvati, who died due to acute respiratory failure with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). He, had pneumonitis, diabetes, hypertension with Covid-19 positive.The other deaths include a 69-year-old male residing at Yerwada who was also suffering from pneumonia and died due to septic shock at Inlaks and Budhrani hospital. The fifth death reported from Sahyadri Hospital, Hadapsar was of a 69-year-old male residing at Wanawadi, who died due to lower respiratory tract infection (LRTI) with ARDS. The deceased had multiple co-morbidities like acute kidney injury (AKI), MODS, diabetes, hypertension , and septic shock.The sixth, death reported was of a 58-year-old male, a PMC, employee from vehicle depot. He died at Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital, due to severe ARDS with COVID-19, at 1.20pm. He worked as a mechanic at the depot and was tested Covid-19 positive on May 22. He was suffering from pneumonia, hypertension and diabetes. Another 47-year-old male from Ganjpeth was reported dead from Bharati hospital, he was also suffering from diabetes, pneumonia, sepsis, and MODS. An 89-year-old female from Daund (Pune rural) was reported dead from Symbiosis hospital, she was also suffering from diabetes, sepsis and MODS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/8-deaths-108-covid-19-positive-cases-and-194-discharged-in-a-day/story-loSYUltPnIssKAPTobUssN.html
31-05-2020||Pune||Navale hospital staff in Pune protests for salary dues of 6 months, management assures dues will be cleared||At least 450 staff members of Kashibai Navale Hospital and Medical College, in Narhe, on Saturday protested outside the hospital over non-payment of salary from December last year.Currently, the hospital has Covid-19 (coronavirus) patients mostly from rural Pune.One of the protesters, who works in the nursing department of the hospital from the past four years on condition of anonymity, said, “We have been waiting for the management to settle our dues from the past six months now. We want a clear assurance from Maruti Navale sir (chairperson of Sinhgad institutes) on this as the management is not giving any clear answers.”“Our hospital is a Covid-19 isolation centre and so only the staff which is not involved in the treatment of the patients is protesting,” she added.Navale hospital is attached to Kashibai Navale Medical College and is run by Sinhgad Technical Education Society (STES). Founded by Navale, STES has been facing financial troubles for the past two years.Despite multiple attempts, the hospital dean Dr Shalini Sardesai, the dean of the college and MN Navale chairperson of Sinhgad institutes could not be reached for comments. The protestor added, “While talking to us in the afternoon Navale sir clearly said that the trust has no money to pay us unless the students pay their dues. It has become very difficult for us to continue with our routine expenditure without salaries for six months.”“Later in the evening after an internal meeting, the management has now assured us that they will release part payment before June 30 and the remaining before August 30. We will resume work from Monday as we do not want the patients to suffer,” the protestor said.Dr Ramchandra Hankare, chief health officer, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), said, “It is a private hospital and only the management can answer for the salary dues as it is an internal matter. As far as Maharashtra Essential Services Maintenance Act (MESMA) 2006 is concerned the hospital has to impose it on their staff, we as administrators cannot do it.” The Maharashtra Essential Services Maintenance Act (MESMA) 2006 was implemented on May 29 in Pune for doctors and nurses in private hospitals. Consequently, the administration has the power to take action against doctors and nurses who refuse to treat COVID-19 patients, as well as those who do not attend medical services. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, Pune Zilla Parishad, said, “As soon as I heard about the protest, I did check if there are any pending bills, but I found that there are no pending bills with us under any government schemes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navale-hospital-staff-protests-for-salary-dues-of-6-months-management-assures-dues-will-be-cleared/story-DPQV8ghppEb7lRW6C3wBWN.html
31-05-2020||Pune||Southern Command felicitates Pune Cantonment Board’s Covid-19 warriors||Lieutenant General DS Ahuja, Chief of Staff, Headquarters Southern Command on Friday felicitated the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) staff at the forefront of service to prevent coronavirus spread. He lauded the doctors, nurses, health workers and staff of PCB for their dedication and treating Covid-19 patients. The PCB hospital has treated around 250 Covid-19 cases with 150 being discharged after completion of treatment. In addition, it is also running two quarantine facilities with 200-bed capacity. Lt Gen Ahuja applauded the PCB team for working round the clock and said that pandemics teach the value of humanity and undertaking the care of each other. Groceries were also distributed to the needy and underprivileged residing in areas under PCB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/southern-command-fetes-pune-cantt-corona-warriors/story-r6ivT9B6QG5kGIBTIbVqVO.html
31-05-2020||Pune||Parents anxious about plan to reopen schools in Pune||After Maharashtra’s deputy chief minister, Ajit Pawar, on Friday, made it clear that schools will not reopen in June, but govt is considering reopening them in July, teachers and parents want to further delay the reopening of schools.Concesso Britto a teacher at Bishop’s School ( Mohammadwadi ) said, “ Parents will not send their kids till the contagion is over. There are more than 40 students in a class. It is essential to postpone the reopening of schools as it is risky for students, teachers and parents.”Clarence D’Souza, a teacher from a school in Salunke Vihar said “ The management had called us to the school to discuss about reopening but we categorically told them that the parents and teachers think that the contagion is far from over and there is a serious risk to the lives of the students. The classrooms are usually crowded and social distancing is mandatory. Similarly, recesses will bring the students together, leading to violation of social distancing norms. When adults are violating social distancing norms, then school students are younger and not mature enough to understand the dangers of intermingling. We have communicated that the schools can start in either August or later, once the epidemic starts receding completely from the city.”Sabeeha Shaikh, a parent from Kondhwa said, “I am extremely concerned about schools reopening. What is the guarantee of my child’s safety and I am also worried about arrangements at school. I think life is far more important than starting the school. We are ready to wait for the next six months rather than endangering the lives of our children,” she said.Manjushree Patil, a parent from Lohegaon said, “We have been keeping a close tab on the situation. The schools must not reopen in July as the virus is still spreading in the city and we fear that our child are at risk. The government must send clear guidelines to the school and inform the parents about what it plans to do with the academic session.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/parents-anxious-over-plan-to-reopen-schools-in-july/story-zwBmXyj1UUgZjyCZetgFoL.html
31-05-2020||Delhi||17 more occupants of shelter near AIIMS test positive for Covid-19||Seventeen occupants of a shelter near the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Friday, more than a week after 21 from the same shelter were found to have the contagious infection. The shelter houses outstation patients who visit the national capital to be treated at the premier institute, as well as their caretakers and relatives. Officials said the infections in the shelter could be traced to two kidney patients who tested positive on May 18. Friday’s positive cases take the total number of Covid-19 cases in the shelter to 40.All of the occupants who tested positive on Friday were quarantined contacts of the 21 who tested positive on May 21.Apart from the 17, an occupant of another shelter that also houses outstation AIIMS patients also tested positive. Both shelters are run by the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB).District magistrate (south) BM Mishra, said, “All the 18 occupants tested positive on Friday and were shifted to AIIMS Jhajjar quarantine facility. We requested the AIIMS authorities to admit these occupants to the hospital here, but they preferred to send them to Jhajjar.”Mishra added that at the shelter near AIIMS where 17 tested positive, around 35 remaining occupants have been put under in-situ quarantine. Samples of all the other occupants of the temporary shelter where one person tested positive were collected on Saturday to test for Covid-19.A senior district official, who asked not to be named, said, “Initially after the 21 cases were reported from here, we requested the shelter authorities to move the remaining occupants out to nearby schools, but they refused. The shelter home should have been cleared and sanitised for a few days.”However, DUSIB officials refuted the claim.“It is the district authorities who decide which set of people will be put in quarantine, and where. We did not get any such request to move occupants out from the shelter. We have been sanitising the shelters regularly and have also fixed minor issues like low water supply,” said a senior DUSIB official, who did not wish to be named.The Delhi high court in an order this week had asked the Delhi government, DUSIB and AIIMS authorities to improve their coordination in such cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/17-more-occupants-of-shelter-near-aiims-test-covid-ve/story-8RGmhd9yB8CZ4SnqpWXi8K.html
31-05-2020||Delhi||Lockdown 5.0: Delhi-specific relaxations likely today after high-level meet||With the nation entering the fifth phase of the lockdown on June 1 (Monday), malls and less crowded places of worship in Delhi are likely to open from June 8. The Delhi government on Saturday, however, remained undecided on allowing restaurants and hotels to reopen for full-fledged business. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has called a meeting of top officials on Sunday to iron out Delhi’s lockdown rules for phase 5. Since activities allowed under “Unlock 1” plan of the Centre will come into effect only from June 8, the Delhi government is likely to state that “status quo” be maintained until then. This means that the current rules and relaxations may continue till June 8.“The Central government has issued a basic framework for unlocking more services and utilities. The Centre has given the power to the states/union territories to enforce stricter rules, if needed, without diluting that framework. So, Delhi will issue a nuanced order for the city after detailed deliberations with officials. A call will be taken on Sunday on issues such as opening of malls on an alternate basis or fully, allowing dine-in service in restaurants, and opening of hotels, salons and spas, among others,” a Delhi government spokesperson said. Earlier in the day, Kejriwal while addressing a digital press conference had said the city cannot remain under a permanent lockdown. “We cannot engage in a permanent lockdown. No one can predict whether the coronavirus will go away if the timeline of the lockdown is increased by a month or more. We have to learn to live with the virus and we have to arrange for everything required to treat Covid-19 cases,” he said. After the Centre’s order, a senior government official said the 122 containment zones in Delhi will get no relaxation till June 30. But despite the Centre’s order, confusion prevailed over interstate movement of people, which has been a major pain point for thousands travelling between Delhi and neighbouring cities of Noida, Gurugram, Faridabad and Ghaziabad.“The Centre in one clause said no pass/permission is required for interstate or intrastate movement. But the second clause says that a state can regulate movement of people to safeguard public health, which means states will still have the power to seal borders if they feel a need to continue doing so,” a senior revenue department official said. The things/activities that will not start or open in the capital in the fifth phase are schools, colleges and other educational and training institutions. A state education department official said the government will hold more consultations with parents, teachers and other stakeholders with regard to opening of educational institutions -- a decision that will have to be taken by July, according to Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) guidelines. The Delhi Metro too will remain shut for now, according to MHA guidelines. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) tweeted saying: “In light of the guidelines issued by the government, Metro services will remain closed for commuters until further notice.”All public transport, expect the Metro, are operating with restrictions in the national capital. All offices, industries and standalone shops are allowed to open. All markets and shopping complexes are operating on an odd-even basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-specific-relaxations-likely-on-sunday-after-high-level-meeting/story-MRA3AulSxBKHjlUGj9fGeI.html
31-05-2020||City||HT Chandigarh debate: Don’t make patients pay for Covid-19 safety measures||Recent reports of non-Covid-19 patients in private hospitals being billed anything between Rs 1,800 to Rs 5,000 for Personal Protective Equipment (PPE kits) and Rs 50 for sanitisers used by health workers treating them indicates how such hospitals are prioritising profits above all else during a pandemic.A hospital in Panchkula recently billed a woman Rs18,000 for PPE kits of seven health workers attending to the birth of her child, including two PPE kits for the infant.When asked to comment on the matter, a hospital spokesperson not wishing to be named, said, “We are following Haryana health department guidelines and are charging as per the guidelines and not charging unnecessarily.”A Chandigarh resident too recently protested when he was charged Rs 50 for a sanitiser at a private hospital. When questioned, the doctor present confirmed the costs and added that Rs 4,000 to Rs 5,000 was also being charged for PPE kits.He said costs of sanitising the hospital and other safety measures meant increased expenses at a time when fewer patients were coming in.Another hospital in Mohali charged a patient Rs 4,200 for a PPE kit from a patient undergoing medical intervention for a kidney ailment.Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur told Hindustan Times recently that an order had been issued on overcharging for PPE kits in certain hospitals. It stated that irrational usage and overcharging for PPE kits had been observed in certain private hospitals, adding unnecessary burden to the patients. “A serious note of this is being taken and all private hospitals are directed to use PPEs as per guidelines already issued. Cost of these if passed on to the patient should be justified and not unnecessarily included in the bill,” she added.The order also reads that any such complaints by the patients will be viewed seriously and appropriate action would be taken.INFLATED COSTSShould patients pay for Covid-19 safety measures?Why do private hospitals expect patients to pay for PPE kits used by health workers? Send your responses to Chandigarh@hindustantimes.com by June 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/reader-s-take-don-t-make-patients-pay-for-covid-19-safety-measures/story-cz7iMhwQ3NC9wvmCvo7ryM.html
31-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi four steps ahead of the virus, will have 9,500 beds ready by June 5, says CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi is several steps ahead of the coronavirus disease and by June 5, will have in place 9,500 hospital beds for Covid-19 patients, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday as the national capital reported 1,163 new cases of the infection, crossing the threshold of 1,000 for the third day in a row.As on Saturday, the national Capital had 18,549 Covid cases of which 10,058 were active cases. As many as 8,075 people have recovered and 416 people have died of the disease. Delhi has recorded a two-fold increase in Covid cases since May 14, a trend that is worrying, Kejriwal conceded. He urged residents of the city not to panic because a a majority of the patients are either asymptomatic or show mild symptoms like cough, cold and fever. The chief minister said most such patients were recovering from the disease in their homes and had not admitted themselves in hospitals — with some not even needing any medication.“Being the chief minister of the people of Delhi, I want to assure you that we are four steps ahead of Covid-19, and are making arrangements way more than what is required for Delhi to fight the virus,” he said.The chief minister held out an assurance that there was no shortage of hospital beds for Covid-19 patients and as of Saturday, as many as 4,500 beds were vacant.“From the 4,500 beds we had last week, the government has now arranged a total of 6,600 beds for the treatment of Covid patients, out of which only 2,100 are occupied. In just a week, we arranged 2,100 beds. By June 5, Delhi will increase its bed capacity to 9,500 beds. We are even taking over hotels, where oxygen concentrators and beds are being arranged by hospitals,” Kejriwal said.For the first time, the government on Friday had notified five hotels to be fully used as “extended Covid hospitals” for patients with moderate symptoms on a payment basis, adding 1,000 beds. It also designated Deep Chand Bandhu Hospital in Ashok Vihar-IV, Wazirpur and Satyawadi Raja Harish Chandra Hospital in Narela as dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, increasing the number of beds in Delhi by another 400. GTB Hospital was asked to earmark 500 more beds for Covid patients. On Saturday, the government asked GTB Hospital — having a capacity of 1,500 beds — to turn into a dedicated Covid hospital by June 2. In Saturday’s digital press briefing, the chief minister said the government will launch a dedicated mobile application and a website for people to check the availability of Covid-19 beds and ventilators in hospitals.“Even though the health infrastructure in Delhi for Covid is fairly adequate for now, family members of patients are still facing difficulty and confusion remains regarding where to take a person for treatment. For the convenience of the people, we are developing an app that will be launched on Monday<’ the chief minister said. “The app will show the data and status of beds and ventilators available in each hospital in Delhi. People who do not use smartphones can access this information on a website that is also being created. Besides, this information will also be available on the government’s 1031 helpline,” he said. Senior officials in the health department said the number of Covid beds in Delhi government hospitals will be increased to 4,600 by next Friday (June 5) from around 3,830 beds as of Saturday. Gauging the high demand among families for private hospitals, the government is also augmenting the number of beds in private facilities. The number of beds in private hospitals as of Saturday was 2,677 compared to only 677 last week. This will increase to 3,677 by June 5. Kejriwal urged people to consider opting for government hospitals as far as possible. “A lot of people want to be treated in private hospitals. But just like our government schools, even Delhi government hospitals will provide you with the best of facilities. I am assuring you this,” he said. According to data available with the Delhi government, Covid cases in Delhi have spiked since the lockdown was significantly relaxed on May 18. Now all modes of public transport, except the metro, industries, offices, shops are allowed to operate.Kejriwal also appealed to the people to not share malicious and unverified content on social media. “Some people create, post, and share videos for petty and dirty politics,” he said, citing two videos that he said had been falsely passed off as footage of Delhi government hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-four-steps-ahead-of-the-virus-will-have-9-500-beds-ready-by-june-5-says-kejriwal/story-In2AA3I7jEGdWRn3oOC37L.html
31-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi government fixes timeline for disposal of Covid-19 bodies||The Delhi government on Saturday directed Covid-designated hospitals in the city to arrange a funeral within 38 hours of a person dying of the infectious disease, to prevent bodies piling up in mortuariesThe order, issued by Delhi’s health secretary Padmini Singla, states that the hospital has to send the body of the Covid-19 patient or of those suspected to have the infection to the mortuary within two hours of the death. The family must contact the mortuary within 12 hours, after which the hospital has to arrange a cremation or burial within 24 hours, in consultation with the family.The order comes days after HT reported that bodies were piling up inside the Lok Nayak hospital mortuary. On Tuesday, there were 108 bodies in the mortuary — 80 in storage racks and 28 on the floor.The Delhi government on Friday also told the Delhi high court that they had taken urgent steps to ensure there was no delay in the disposal of the bodies of persons who died of Covid-19 or were suspected to have died of the disease.As per the new guidelines for the disposal of Covid-19 bodies, if the family does not contact the mortuary within 12 hours, an intimation will be sent through the area station head officer (SHO) about the date, time, and place of the funeral, in consultation with the area municipal corporation to ensure that the family attend. The delivery of this intimation has to happen within 12 hours of receiving the message from the hospital. This date and time of the funeral has to be fixed in such a manner that the family gets at least 24 hours intimation.So far, Delhi has recorded 416 Covid-19 deaths.In case of abandoned or unidentified dead bodies, the order states that the Delhi Police has to complete all legal formalities within 72 hours, and the body has to be disposed of in another 24 hours.For those whose address is outside Delhi, the medical director of the hospital has to send a message to the resident commissioner of the state or Union Territory, who will be asked to respond within 48 hours. If no reply is received, the body will be “cremated” in the next 24 hours, the order states.The responsibility of timely disposal of dead bodies will lie with the medical director of the hospital where the person died, or where they were brought dead. The respective municipal corporation will help make arrangements for all such burial or cremation, the order states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-government-fixes-timeline-for-disposal-of-covid-19-bodies/story-UvP0K8bwqAOl2f4F1laaiK.html
31-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s largest wholesale medicine market Bhagirath Palace shut till June 4||Delhi’s largest wholesale market for medicines, Bhagirath Palace in Chandni Chowk, has been shut till June 4 after at least 12 people tested positive for Covid-19 from the area in the last 10 days.Traders said that on Saturday, one block of the market — comprising around 50 shops — was shut. The remaining market will be closed from Sunday onwards till June 4. Ashish Grover, a trader in the market and general secretary of Delhi Drug Dealers Association, said, “There are nine to ten blocks in the market area. Today (Saturday), we have closed one block of the market from where five Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the last 2-3 days. The market will remain entirely closed from Monday till June 4, so that it can be properly sanitised and the virus spread can be stemmed. On Sunday, the market anyway remains closed. In total 12 cases have been reported from the market since May 22.” He added that two Covid-19 patients are being treated at hospitals, while the rest are in home isolation. According to various traders’ associations, Bhagirath Palace has been essential in the capital’s war against Covid-19, being the state’s largest wholesale market for medicines. It was open even during the lockdown period because the shops were listed under essential services. The market in Chandi Chowk is located between Lal Quila (Red Fort) and Chandni Chowk metro stations. It has around 570 shops, where more than 2,500-3,000 people work. The wholesale market is surrounded by another wholesale market where surgical goods and electrical items are sold.Grover said that Bhagirath Palace was a very congested market comprising narrow lanes, so social distancing was not entirely possible. However, he said that despite taking all other necessary precautions — like compulsory wearing of masks and gloves — the number of Covid-19 cases has increased in past 10 days. Hence, the traders were “terrified” and opted to shut down the market for a few daysDistrict administration officials said that traders have told them about the about closure of the market and rising Covid-19 cases. They said that the market will be sanitised completely. Traders at the market have assured that the medical supplies in the city will not be hit. “Visitors come to the market from different parts of the city and even many traders do not reside in Central Delhi. So it is very hard to track from where the disease is coming. We will get the market sanitised thoroughly,” a district administration official said.The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) had also requested lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to give immediate directions to authorities to sanitise all markets across the city after a number of cases started emerging from Bhagirath Palace. Praveen Khandelwal, secretary general CAIT, said that markets and traders cannot be left at the mercy of God and authorities should properly sanitise markets.“Since markets are places where heavy footfall of people is always expected, the sanitisation process is all the more necessary. The CAIT has urged Delhi LG to convene a joint meeting of traders with heads of different agencies in Delhi and to chalk out a collaborative strategy for sanitisation, upkeeping and maintaining safety measures, as directed by the government in every market of Delhi,” Khandelwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-largest-wholesale-medicine-market-bhagirath-palace-shut-till-june-4/story-WAbEDj7qec8np0jT5AVhZL.html
31-05-2020||Delhi||Amid protest, Delhi University announces it will hold online open book exams for final year undergraduate students||Amid strong opposition from scores of students and teachers, Delhi University (DU) late Friday confirmed the tentative dates for the final year undergraduate exams and said they will be conducted online in the ‘open book format (OBF)’.The exams are tentatively scheduled to begin from July 1 for 2.4 lakh final year students, including those enrolled with the SoL and Non-Collegiate Women’s Education Board.The online exams will be of three hours each – two hours for answering questions and an hour extra for downloading the question paper from an online portal, and once done, for scanning and uploading the answer sheets. The question paper will have six questions; students will be asked to attempt four. Additional time and assistance will be given to persons with disabilities. The exams will be held in three shifts a day for different courses and would test the understanding and analytical skills of students.For many like Mohit (21), a final year BA (prog) student at Delhi University’s School of Open Learning (SoL), the decision is bad news. Mohit (who goes by a single name) used to work as a laundry person before the nationwide lockdown rendered him jobless. He lives with his family of four in a one-room house in north-west Delhi’s Sangam Park. He has not been able to attend a single online class over the last two months due to poor internet connectivity in his locality and for want of space in his house. “We have been struggling to survive without work amid the lockdown. I take laundry contracts from hostels and paying guest students and since all of them have left town post-lockdown, I have no work. It’s tough enough for me to give exams in the normal format, let alone online. We just have one mobile phone at home; one that is very old and very slow,” he said.Hundreds of students living in remote areas and in states with poor internet connectivity have been opposing online exams. Ever since it came to fore a few weeks ago that the university was considering holding exams online, students have held online protests, ran Twitter campaigns, and took part in hunger strikes at home to protest the move. Three students have also filed a petition before the Delhi high court challenging the open book online examinations.Several students said they could not even submit online practical assignments during a recently held exam due to the poor internet connectivity. A final year Botany (Hon) student at Daulat Ram College, who lives in a village in Dibrugarh, Assam, said, “We recently had our online practical exams and it was horrible. I was standing on my terrace all drenched in sweat in the middle of the day trying to upload my PDF on time. The allotted time got over and I could not upload it as the file was bulky and the connectivity was poor. My teacher later allowed me to send it over email. It took me hours to do even that.”For many students, even internet connectivity is a secondary issue, the primary being that they don’t have any gadgets. Madhavi, a third-year student of an off-campus college and resident of Jharkhand’s Ramgarh district, said, “My father is a daily wage earner and I can’t ask him to buy me a smartphone. I had bought one in my first year of college with money I earned by taking tuitions but that phone is not working now -- its screen got damaged. I cannot even check my mails and then on Friday, my friend called and told me about online exams,” she said.Although the university has assured help, several visually challenged students raised concerns about the availability of scribes. “Generally, our college helps us get scribes to write our exams. Now living away so far, I do not know how I will manage to get one in my village,” said a final year visually impaired student of Kamala Nehru College. The University administration on Saturday, however, asked college principals to get applications from students who need information and communication technology (ICT) infrastructure for the exams.The notification further states that the university has engaged common service centres (CSCs)— ICT access points created under the ministry of electronics and information technology. “The students can avail of the facility free of cost. There are more than 2 lakh functional CSCs located in all gram panchayats and villages across the country. The information on CSCs will be available on the DU website,” said dean of examinations Vinay Gupta said in the notification. The dean said those who will still not be able to take the exams will be provided a chance to do so after September, once OBE exam results are out.Several teachers said many CSCs in villages don’t have updated technology. Pankaj Garg, a teacher at Rajdhani College, said, “Most of the CSCs mentioned on the website are in a bad shape with no proper connectivity. This decision would adversely affect the economically weak students. If they are unable to take the OBE exams, then they have to wait till after the OBE results. This would delay the declaration of their results and affect future plans.”Rajesh Jha, member of the DU executive council, said DU is trying to experiment with a form of examination that has never been used amid the pandemic crisis. “This switch from one mode of exams to another is in violation of the university rules. Even teachers are confused about how to set the paper,” he said.Seema Das, a member of the DU academic council, said, “The format is very different as questions are set to evaluate the analytical knowledge of students. It requires extensive discussions on topics. We could not even take proper classes because of the lockdown. This format can still be used for a small set of students and not in a set-up like DU.”Despite several attempts, Gupta did not respond to calls and texts for comment. A member of DU’s task force to combat Covid-19 pandemic said, “The administration will have to take some extraordinary measures in this extraordinary situation. We cannot wait for a long time as we will have to start the admission process in August. A chance will be given to those who won’t be able to attend these exams.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/amid-protest-du-announces-it-will-hold-online-open-book-exams-for-final-year-undergrad-students/story-uSgFX3QrQIeeTxCzi4DGlK.html
31-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi PWD asks contractors to estimate cost increase in construction projects||Delhi’s Public Works Department (PWD), which is working on some of the Capital’s most important infrastructure projects, has asked concessionaires to evaluate and estimate cost increases in ongoing projects due to the lockdown, and submit a report in the first week of June. PWD officials said that the tentative increase in the estimated cost of the projects is likely to range between 10% and 12% for the current quarter. Experts have said any potential increase in costs would also likely delay the respective project, because the revised estimates would require government approval.The officials said the cost of construction material has increased due to the nationwide lockdown, in place since March 25 to curb the spread of Covid-19.Hiked duties on diesel and petrol in Delhi also made transporting construction material costlier. With these factors together playing a role in bumping up the cost of the projects substantially, officials said the evaluation exercise will give the department an idea of the “financial health” of the projects.The Delhi government had, on May 5, raised value-added tax (VAT) rates on petrol and fuel.“At present, the duty on petrol and diesel has been increased, so the transportation cost of construction material will also go up. The cost of construction materials such as stone grits, steel, iron, and others have also increased. These will most definitely escalate the cost of infrastructure projects,” a senior PWD official said.The official said stone grits are procured from Rajasthan, but mining is yet to re-start properly in the state due to a shortage of labour, which has made available materials more expensive. “We have asked our concessionaires to evaluate costs and file a report by the first week of June. The average cost escalation of major projects is expected to be around 10% to 12% for the current quarter,” the official said.Another PWD official explained that costs will only escalate in long-term projects, which usually take more than 18 months to complete.“Small-scale projects are unlikely to be affected. Long term projects such as the Barapullah Phase-3 elevated corridor will face the impact of cost escalation,” the official said.He explained that, for instance, the estimated cost of Barapullah Phase-3 project so far is ₹1,260 crore. If a cost escalation of 10% is projected, its revised cost will end up being ₹1,386 crore.The PWD is working on projects such as construction of a 1.2-km tunnel between Purana Qila Road near Mathura Road and Ring Road, which is part of the ITPO Pragati Maidan Redevelopment Project; Barapullah phase-3 elevated corridor; Ashram underpass; flyovers at Seelampur and Shastri Park; and Benito-Juarez Road underpass in south Delhi. Construction at a majority of infrastructure projects was on hold since November last year, when the Supreme Court banned work due to toxic pollution levels in the city.That ban was fully lifted only in February. But work was stopped only weeks later on March 25 when the nationwide lockdown came into force.The Centre had, last month, asked states to allow construction work at important infrastructure projects after April 20, an order that did not extend to Delhi due to the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the Capital. The Delhi government gave its nod to resume construction activities on infrastructure projects on May 3.Sewa Ram, professor at the School of Planning and Architecture (SPA) said that apart from costly construction materials and high transportation cost, slow pace of work also results in a project’s cost escalating. “Cost escalations also cause hindrances in the progress of the project, because it requires approval from the government which further consumes time. Resource mobilisation will be a big problem for the government as well. In some projects that are yet to start, the government may relook some of the projects or halt them temporarily,” Ram said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-pwd-asks-contractors-to-estimate-cost-increase-in-construction-projects/story-2mEntbBC3vfHq6XnD562PP.html
31-05-2020||Delhi||Air India pilot tests Covid-19 positive, rescue flight to Moscow turned around||A special Air India flight that took off from Delhi airport on Saturday morning to bring back Indian citizens stranded in Moscow, under the government’s Vande Bharat initiative, was called back midway when the airline found out that one of the pilots on-board had tested positive for the coronavirus disease, the airlines said in a statement.Air India did not clarify who was responsible for the lapse that allowed the pilot to board the aircraft with 16 other crew members. An internal inquiry is underway, the airline said. All the 16 crew members were quarantined after they flew back, the airline said. Under the government’s Vande Bharat mission, the national airline is flying back Indian citizens stranded abroad because of the suspension of international flights and lockdowns for the Covid-19 crisis. The first phase of Vande Bharat Mission, completed during May 7-16, resulted in the repatriation of 16,716 stranded Indians on 64 flights from a dozen countries. The second phase represents a massive scaling up of the programme, with 429 flights by Air India (311 international flights and 118 feeder flights) from 60 countries. According to the officials at Delhi airport, Saturday’s special flight left Indira Gandhi International Airport at 6.40 am for Moscow to bring back 135 Indians. At around 9.30 am, the pilots were told to return to base. “At the time when pilots were asked to return to Delhi airport they were already flying over Kazakhstan. They had completed around three hours of flight. It took them another three hours to return and the flight landed in Delhi by 12.30 pm,” said an official who requested anonymity. In a statement, Air India said it had to recall the aircraft operating from Delhi to Moscow immediately when it was noticed that one of the cockpit crew had tested positive in a pre-flight Covid-19 test.“On return, immediately after landing all cockpit and cabin crew have been tested and all laid down medical precautions are being taken to ensure their health and safety. All of them have been quarantined. Another aircraft was sent to operate the Vande Bharat flight to bring back Indians from Moscow,” the airline said.The airline’s spokesperson did not respond to a query from HT about the procedure of pre-flight Covid-19 tests for the special flight’s crew members; another query on how the pilot had boarded the aircraft after he tested positive also elicited no response. A second official at the airport, who is aware of the procedure that’s followed, said once a flight ‘s schedule is fixed, all crew meant to fly on that plane undergo a coronavirus disease test a few hours before departure time. “The test results are sent to the authorities at the landing port if they demand {the results}. In some countries, including India, they ask for test results of the arriving crew in any relief flight,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pilot-tests-ve-rescue-flight-to-moscow-turned-around/story-egxgX3ZvVyn7c3mgfOBFTL.html
31-05-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram Police restricts border checks for rush hours on Saturday; curbs to remain in place in Lockdown 5.0||A day after imposing travel restrictions at the Delhi-Gurugram border that led to heavy congestion on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, the police on Saturday somewhat relaxed the checking of vehicles. While the police continued to check for the movement passes during the rush hours, for the rest of the day, however, they only conducted a random check of the vehicles. Meanwhile, although the ministry of home affairs (MHA), on late Saturday evening, allowed for the unrestricted movement of goods and people between states, the Gurugram district administration decided to continue with the present restrictions in view of the public health situation in the state. On Saturday morning, those with movement passes pasted on the front screen of their vehicles were allowed to pass easily unlike Friday when every vehicle was stopped for checking. The checking on Saturday mainly took place between 7.30am and 9.30am and then from 5pm to 7.30pmCommuters who travelled on both Friday and Saturday said that the congestion was far less on Saturday as compared to the previous day. The volume of vehicles on weekends is much lower than it is on the weekdays and the traffic police were also not stopping every vehicles, said the commuters. “On Friday, there was heavy congestion and it took me around 35-40 minutes to cross the border. Even those with passes were being stopped and asked about the destination for which they were headed. Today (Saturday), however, the police were not stopping those with movement passes for questioning and letting them through. The combination of light traffic and a greater leniency on the part of the police resulted less traffic congestion. As such, It took me less than 15 minutes to cross the border,” said Keshav Anand, a resident of Sector 55.A spot visit by the HT team to the expressway revealed that, around 1pm, on the Gurugram to Delhi side of the carriageway, police personnel were checking vehicles for passes in only the extreme left lane while toll operators were checking vehicles in the other three. However, they were only stopping commercial vehicles. On the Delhi to Gurugram carriageway, despite heavy police presence, free movement of vehicles was being allowed only through a single lane.“We do not have adequate manpower to stop and check every single vehicle. Even if we do this for 10-15 minutes, it leads to a kilometre-long pile-up and it takes more than 30-45 minutes for the traffic to return to normalcy. We are thus allowing most vehicles to pass through and are only stopping those that have more than one or two occupants and have vehicle registration number plates that do not belong to either Delhi or Gurugram,” said a police official at the spot.The vigilance at the border was increased on Friday after Haryana home minister Anil Vij directed the main roads as well as internal roads connecting the four districts of the state with Delhi to be sealed, alleging that a bulk of the new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in Haryana were related to Delhi.Gurugram police officials said that there would be no change in the deployment and checking at the borders unless new directions are issued in this regard.“We will continue to have thorough checking at the borders until we receive any new direction from the government stating otherwise. Only those engaged in essential services, and those with movement passes will be allowed to allowed to cross over to Delhi or vice versa,” said Chander Mohan, DCP, traffic. Mohan, however, denied that Gurugram Police were carrying out random checking for most of the day, and said it may have happened momentarily. Restrictions during Lockdown 5.0On Saturday evening, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) issued a fresh set of guidelines on the phased re-opening of activities outside containment areas across India. Although one of the rules stated that there will be ‘unrestricted movement of persons and goods’ between states and within states, a clause to rule stated that a state or a Union Territory could regulate movement based on an assessment of the public health situation. The movement, however, can only be restricted if the details about the restrictions have been publicised well in advance by the local administration. When asked about the movement of goods and persons between Haryana and Delhi, deputy commissioner Amit Khatri said that Gurugram will be operating with this clause. “At present, we will be regulating the movement of people and goods as per the MHA’s enabling clause. It is an NCR-wide decision. Any change in this regard will be initiated depending on the situation following a thorough review of public health with regards to coronavirus,” said Khatri.When asked about the problems faced by the people in the past few days regarding the issuance of movement passes through the SARAL Haryana portal, Khatri said that it is likely the servers are being updated towards the end of the month and hence, people were facing such issues. On Saturday evening, application for movement passes through the portal returned to normalcy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-police-restricts-border-checks-for-rush-hours-curbs-to-remain-in-place-in-lockdown-5-0/story-CWhrLmgJXrxUNfGwscvD7I.html
31-05-2020||City||Tricity buzz: HT Chandigarh reporters’ tracker on all those making, or faking, news amid coronavirus lockdown||JAWAHARPUR LOOKS HEAVENWARDS TO END CORONA CURSEWith 46 Covid-19 cases, Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi sub division of Mohali district is seeking divine intervention to end its corona curse. From organising havans to akhand path, villagers are trying to appease the Almighty to bring back smiles on the faces of residents. The 200-year-old village became a hotspot and was declared a containment zone. Malkit Singh, the first from the village to test positive, is leading the prayers to rescue the village from such hard times.COVID WARRIOR BABLA GETS DRIVE-PAST SALUTE FROM GRATEFUL RESIDENTSAs parts of Sector 30-B, Chandigarh, turned into a containment zone, local area councillor Devinder Singh Babla played a proactive role in redressing people’s grievances. Residents decided to express their gratitude for his services last Sunday by planning a drive past Babla’s house. While people drove past offering their thanks, Babla could be seen wearing a mask and waving back at them. At the recent House meeting as well, he highlighted how a woman from Sector 30 was supposed to get married on June 5 but couldn’t make preparations due to the lockdown. Municipal corporation commissioner KK Yadav assured him that the authorities will help with the wedding preparations. Now that’s a people’s representative, indeed.UT cop announces home delivery serviceWhen a Chandigarh Police inspector took to Facebook to announce that Swagath, a restaurant in Sector 26, Chandigarh, is open for home deliveries, it left many surprised. The UT administration allowed home delivery by eateries, while relaxing the lockdown. Congratulatory notes poured in but there were a few queries such as: “Are you running this?” A resident sarcastically remarked, “Home delivery bhi police hi karegi? (Will the police now do home delivery also?)” It’s another matter that Chandigarh Police proactively provided food to the needy during the curfew and lockdown since March 23.HAPPY BIRTHDAY ON DUTY, GRP STYLEBirthdays are special and no lockdown can stop the celebrations, even for those on duty. The other day, assistant sub inspector Lakhbir Singh of the Government Railway Police (GRP) was on duty in Mohali, overseeing the return of migrant workers to their native places amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Since he could not go home or get an off on his birthday, GRP deputy superintendent of police Davinder Singh Matharu arranged a cake-cutting ceremony at his office, while the men in khaki, who are like second family, sang the birthday song on the ASI’s special day.POSITIVE TO NEGATIVE, TWO LABS GIVE TWO CORONA RESULTSThe Union Territory health department was caught by surprise when a 91-year-old woman from Sector 15, Chandigarh, tested negative for Covid-19 within hours of testing positive. The laboratory at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, and a private lab gave different results for the woman’s swab samples. Though the private lab authorities, which first confirmed that the woman was infected, has taken one more sample for investigation, the UT health department has said that the PGIMER report, which suggests the woman is not infected, will be treated as final. A senior UT official said: “They can send the samples to John Hopkins but I am sure they will get the same result.”COUNCILLORS MEET ON VIRTUAL TURF VIA VIDEO-CONFERENCEFor the first time, the general House meet of the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation was conducted via video conference on Friday. While it mostly went off with them maintaining discipline and speaking only when their turn came, when an argument broke out, it was all noise and all one could hear was the echo of “ek minute mayor madam”. Switching their cameras and microphones off, many councillors just disappeared from the meeting, while one of them appeared to be driving while participating in the video-conference. Managing the camera angle was the toughest job for one of the women councillors. Even after media persons alerted her, all others could see were her lips on the screen.BJP, CONGRESS IN CREDIT WAR OVER PANDEMIC DONATIONSAfter the initial appreciation for the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation in containing coronavirus, Congress and BJP leaders were back to their usual game of one-upmanship. Each party’s members claimed they had done more than their rivals for helping people during the pandemic. The arguments became particularly heated on the issue of donation of PPE kits and sanitisers. MC Commissioner KK Yadav intervened and said, “The MC welcomes donations from both parties. Help as much you want!”SALONS CLOSED IN CHANDIGARH, RESIDENTS HEAD FOR PANCHKULA, MOHALIEven as Punjab and Haryana allowed barber shops to open, the UT administration did not come out with its standard operating procedure (SOP) for opening salons in the city. Sources said senior UT officials want to wait till the end of Lockdown 4.0. Meanwhile, residents made their way to neighbouring Panchkula and Mohali to get groomed after two months of staying home.RELIEF FOR PANJAB UNIVERSITY V-C AS NAHAR GOESThe term of Panjab University dean, students’ welfare (DSW), Emanual Nahar ends on Sunday. Last May, vice-chancellor Raj Kumar was not in favour of extending his term but syndicate members prevailed. Nahar, who is in the rival camp, has been a headache for the vice-chancellor, leading to a controversy that brewed for four months and even saw students locking down Students Centre. The matter went to the Punjab and Haryana high court and PU was pulled up for removing Nahar unceremoniously. Finally, the V-C can heave a sigh of relief.PARENTS LOCK HORNS OVER SCHOOL FEE DURING LOCKDOWN It’s the first time that the tricity of Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali has seen protests by parents outside schools almost every day. Some parents say they don’t want to pay the fee till classes resume after the Covid-19 situation improves, while others say the charges should be minimal. So far, the education department has turned a blind eye to the protests. Education secretary Arun Kumar Gupta and director, school education, Rubinderjit Singh Brar have not commented on the protests.(Contributed by Hillary Victor, Munieshwer A Sagar, Shailee Dogra, Rajanbir Singh, Amanjeet Singh, Ovais Dar and Srishti Jaswal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tricity-buzz-ht-chandigarh-reporters-tracker-on-all-those-making-or-faking-news-amid-coronavirus-lockdown/story-VJjdr4spbnPCD8aB4CrS2L.html
31-05-2020||City||Wildbuzz: Claws of law tighten grip on killers of migratory falcons||The wheels of justice have turned slowly for endangered migratory falcons and resident raptors. The pace gathered momentum last week. In a series of raids and crackdowns on a section of pigeon fanciers of Punjab who were slaughtering raptors such as the Tundra Peregrine falcon, the Punjab Wildlife Preservation wing arrested two fanciers from Sandoha village of Bathinda district and questioned another fancier from Gharuan village near Mohali. The wildlife officials also arrested two youths from village Lahora near Ludhiana, who were in illegal possession of two specimens of the resident raptor, the Black kite.The raids were launched in response to exposé in the Wildbuzz column on April 22, 2018, and May 10, 2020. This writer had furnished brutal ISIS-style videos of raptor slaughter to the highest authorities at the level of the Union ministry of environment and forests, National Wildlife Crime Control Bureau, the Punjab Wildlife Preservation wing and the International Convention on Migratory Species Office, Abu Dhabi, in April 2018 and May 2020. India is a signatory to this Convention on the protection of all raptors. Confirming the crackdown, Punjab principal chief conservator (wildlife), Dr Kuldeep Kumar, told this writer: “We are going to go strictly by the law. Raptors such as falcons enjoy the highest protection under the laws and it is a non-bailable offence. We want to put an end to this practise once and for all. We had earlier launched a sensitisation and awareness campaign in Punjab to get pigeon fanciers not to kill raptors. We aim to also find out to whom the pigeon fanciers have passed on the falcons or sold them after capture, if they did not kill them.” Irked by raptors such as the Shikra, Eurasian Sparrow hawk, and the migratory Tundra Peregrine and Laggar falcons preying on their expensive pigeons, some fanciers captured raptors and made videos that were posted on TikTok and YouTube and went viral on WhatsApp. Some of these latest videos, which draw a huge number of views, ‘likes’ and ‘shares’, show gruesome beheading of the raptors or simply the wrenching off of the falcon’s head by a muscular Punjabi hand. Pigeon fanciers also shoot down falcons and make videos of that illegal act. Rogue pigeon fanciers in other states of India and Pakistan are also believed to indulge in this brutal killing.Acting on a coordinated drive initiated by Dr Kumar, divisional forest officer (DFO), wildlife, at Bathinda, Swarn Singh, traced the pigeon fanciers to Sandoha village who had trapped a falcon from a high tower and then passed it off to someone else. The two videos showing the illegal acts by the Sandoha pigeon fanciers had been sent to the wildlife authorities by this writer in April 2018. “The persons arrested from village Sandoha near Maur are Gurprit Singh Mand and Nirmal Singh Billa. We have asked the Police to trace the person to whom the fanciers passed on the falcon,” Swarn Singh told this writer.A team from the Ropar wildlife division led by DFO, wildife, Monika Yadav and range forest officer, Prem Singh, traced Gurvinder Singh from villager Gharuan, who had put up videos of him wrenching off the head of a falcon. “We have questioned him and taken his statement. He will be produced before the court,” Yadav told this writer. While the pigeon fanciers from Sandhoa village were arrested on the basis of the offending videos, the wildlife wing is yet to initiate the arrest of Gurvinder Singh of Gharuan who had put up a number of videos displaying acts in violation of wildlife protection laws.As part of the crackdown on rogue pigeon fanciers, a team led by DFO, Phillaur, Khushwinder Singh, nabbed two youths of village Lahora near Ludhiana. “Though it does not seem they were pigeon fanciers, they had two Black kites in their possession. We are questioning them and one of them is Gurprit Singh,” Khushwinder Singh told this writer.vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wildbuzz-claws-of-law-tighten-grip-on-killers-of-migratory-falcons/story-qmZ6coTVX10r75Tnb6LIBI.html
31-05-2020||Pune||Pune woman loses Rs 90,000 in online fraud||A 39-year-old woman from Pune was duped by a person who posed as a potential customer to buy the furniture she had posted for sale on an online platform. The woman had posted an advertisement for a sofa and a chair on an online website and she got a call from a person at 7:30pm on Friday who inquired about the furniture she had posted for sale. After the sale was decided upon, the caller said that for payment, he will send a QR code to the woman which he asked her to scan.As soon as she scanned the QR code, Rs 50,000 was deducted from her bank account, according to the complainant. The complainant claims to have called the customer and told him that money was deducted from her account instead of depositing. The caller, then, allegedly sent another QR code which also was scanned by the complainant while hoping for the return of the money lost in the earlier transaction. However, Rs 40,000 was transferred from the complainant’s account after the second scan, according to her complaint. Consequently, the woman realised that she had been cheated and reported it to the local police after a total of Rs 90,000 was deducted from her account.A case under Section 420 (punishment for cheating) of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act was registered at Wanowrie police station. Police inspector (crime) Saleem Chaus of Wanowrie police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/woman-loses-rs-90-000-in-online-fraud/story-zHYjdeUztVZbiAGnUmDolK.html
31-05-2020||Chandigarh||Muddy, erratic water supply irks residents in Chandigarh's southern sectors||Even as they battle a pandemic, which requires people to observe good hygiene for staying safe,residents of southern sectors of Chandigarh have been struggling with erratic and muddy water supply.Residents say the problem has persisted for the past two or three days.Prabha Sharma, vice-president of the LIG Duplex Association of Sector 41-A, said, “We received muddy water on Friday evening. The water supply timings are erratic, sometimes starting half-an-hour late, and stopping half-an-hour early. On Saturday also, the water supply remained hit. We are already paying taxes to bring 24-hour water supply to the city. The least the MC can do is ensure water supply timings are fixed.”Preeti Verma, president of the Sector 35-B Bhakra Beas Management Board residents welfare association (RWA), says they have been receiving muddy water for the last four days. “The water supply has become very erratic. On Saturday afternoon, we did not have water supply and had even received muddy water in the morning.” She says she had spoken to the municipal corporation (MC) officials about a week ago, but to no avail. Sudershan Joshi, a member of the Sector 44-C RWA, added that they had been receiving muddy water as well.Chandigarh Residents Associations Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) chairman Hitesh Puri said, “Around two to three days ago, the water supply was clean but now we have started getting muddy water. When we open the taps in the morning, we get around half-a-bucket muddy water.” He added that CRAWFED had written to the MC commissioner to fix issues with the water supply of the city.Taking stock of the situation, MC chief engineer Shailender Singh said, “Around three days ago, we had started an additional motor which had sucked up some mud. We had removed the mud but we will check again if people are still facing this problem.”MC councillor Anil Kumar Dubey, who is the chairman of the water supply committee, added that a meeting has been called on Monday to discuss all complaints regarding water supply in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/muddy-water-supply-irks-residents-in-chandigarh-s-southern-sectors/story-1Sh1XZICAPHapsP9vwKKIN.html
31-05-2020||Pune||Pune entrepreneur comes to rescue of unemployed youth in rural areas||Migrants returning home has led to a severe manpower crunch in industries across Maharashtra and city-based Shriram Satpute, an entrepreneur and founder of Job Showcase, an online job portal, has come to the rescue of unemployed youth in rural areas.Satpute has been at the forefront in connecting the youth from Solapur and Ahmednagar districts with the industries and has successfully facilitated at least 140 persons in getting jobs in the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) areas in Pune region.The lockdown, which was imposed in March to contain the spread of Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection, resulted in job losses in various sectors. Satpute started organising virtual job fairs and has provided employment to locals from western Maharashtra and Marathwada. Through Job Showcase, Satpute has provided jobs in retail, banking, manufacturing, e-commerce, production and allied sectors. “The industries are facing a severe shortage of manpower due to the mass migration of labour and hence, we have facilitated the recruitment through virtual job fairs where the interviews are conducted through video conferencing by the human resource personnel,” said Satpute.According to Satpute, the job aspirants from the rural areas of the state cannot travel to the city and the metropolitan centres for interviews. so digital technology came in handy for direct interviews and detailed discussion on the job profile. Interviews are held and a decision is taken with immediate effect. At least 100 candidates were selected from Karjat –Jamkhed assembly segment represented by Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MLA Rohit Pawar during the lockdown period. Similarly, 40 candidates were chosen from Barshi in Solapur district where former inspector Bhausaheb Andhalkar supported the initiative.Beneficiary candidate Dayaneshwar Ulage from Karjat-Jamkhed said, “The initiative has given hopeto the rural youth who are searching for job opportunities during the lockdown and economic crisis. I had applied for Baramati Agro and my process has been completed. I am thankful to our local MLA and virtual job fair for organising the meeting online.”Pawar said, “The initiative is aimed at providing job opportunities to the needy during the tough times. The interviews are conducted online through video conferencing. We have received more than 3,000 applications from various job aspirants so far.”Dilip Pawar, operations head, Yashashwi Group, said, “During the two-month lockdown, companies have been facing serious shortage of manpower. During the lockdown, transport system had shut and it was a challenging task to travel from the district to the company address. Online interviews do not require travel and it is convenient for both the HR and the job aspirant. We have done more than 100 interviews so far and the response has been encouraging.”Satpute said that the extreme shortage of manpower had created opportunities in different sectors where the skilled aspirants can get jobs at decent salaries. “This is how they are seeking out a living and keeping their home and hearth going. We will be extending the facilities to other areas as well,” said Satpute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-entrepreneur-comes-to-rescue-of-unemployed-youth-in-rural-areas/story-9ePgIAekRiSnPppds02PzI.html
31-05-2020||Chandigarh||Society for Promotion of IT in Chandigarh organises webinars on emerging technologies||In sync with the central government guidelines, Society for Promotion of IT in Chandigarh (SPIC), under the aegis of the department of information technology, is organising a series of webinars for students of Chandigarh Group of Colleges from May 28 to June 2. The first webinar, held on Saturday, focussed on emerging technologies and their high demand among companies that aim to reduce their operational costs. The second webinar focussed on data science and its tools which help in business growth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/society-for-promotion-of-it-in-chandigarh-organises-webinars-on-emerging-technologies/story-NIaRqwbZ7bXpnvMqxS3ClJ.html
31-05-2020||Pune||Stranded Shillong student gets Pune organisation’s hospitality gift||Pune-based Vande Mataram Sanghatana came to the rescue of a 20-year-old, resident of Meghalaya, who was caught unawares by the lockdown and was stranded in Pune for the past two months.An ecstatic Neelakshi Bhuyan reached Shillong on Wednesday.Bhuyan, who is a final-year BBA student at MIT University, Shillong, came to Pune to look for job opportunities. “I came to Pune in March in search of a job and was living at a guest house with a friend. When I got to know about the Covid-19 pandemic, I booked a ticket for March 28, but unfortunately, the lockdown was announced and I was stuck here.”However, when things started to get difficult, Bhuyan contacted Sachin Jamage, state executive president of Vande Mataram Sanghatana for help. Right from giving food packets and ration to plane tickets, the Sanghatana has helped her in many ways.“We came in contact with her 10 days ago. We enquired and verified her situation. Accordingly, we first provided her with ration as she was living alone in Chandannagar. We had been in touch with her since then. When the domestic flights resumed, she wanted to go back to Shillong and hence we booked a ticket for her. Her flight was scheduled for 2am on Tuesday. As there is no transport service available, one of our volunteers Sanchit Karve brought his car and we dropped her to Lohegaon airport,” said Jamage.Bhuyan who lost her father four years ago said she went through a financial crunch. “My father worked in the state police department. My mother, sister and I are dependent on my father’s pension for income, so it was difficult for me to survive in Pune. I got the contact of Vande Mataram Sanghatana through social media. Sachin and his team were supportive and were in continuous touch with me during the lockdown days. They provided me with food and helped me get home,” she said.“I had connecting flight from Pune to Delhi and then Delhi to Shillong and finally I reached here on Wednesday. Now I am in quarantine for 14 days after which I will go back home. All credit goes to Sachin and his team for helping people in distress,” said Bhuyan.BOXVolunteers of Vande Mataram Sanghatana have been working tirelessly for the past 69 days to help the needy. As of May 28, they have distributed more than 3.5 lakh food packets, provided 3,500 ration kits to needy and donated 1,000 masks. Their 100 volunteers have also donated blood during this lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/stranded-shillong-student-gets-pune-organisation-s-hospitality-gift/story-V8EeeNvik6mkaGGvjcxO8M.html
31-05-2020||Pune||Tennis academies ready for action, courts sanitised||In preparation for tennis action after lockdown, the Maharashtra state lawn tennis association (MSLTA) has taken the first step forward by issuing guidelines to players, coaches, and tennis centres across the city.The guidelines have received a positive response from tennis organisers and coaches around the city. “I have read MSLTA guideline note completely and we will be definitely following all of them at our Deccan Gymkhana courts. We are just waiting for directives from the state government on when to start, I hope activities resume soon,” said Ashwin Girme, secretary of the tennis department at Deccan Gymkhana club.Ankita Raina who is currently ranked 122 in singles WTA ranking, said “ All guideline by each tennis associations around the world are in line with ITF guidelines as per WHO recommendations. Taking into consideration players safety, players will have to follow it strictly,in these times safety is more important than practice or training.”With tennis academies closed for the last two months, owners have begun cleaning and sanitising the courts.“I hope we can start after May 31, I have completed the sanitisation of the courts and all the equipments. We can maintain social distance in tennis and MSLTA guidelines are a perfect way to resume the sports,” said Navnath Shete, owner of Metrocity sports and health club who has four courts in Ideal Colony, Kothrud.The coach of Bounce tennis academy, Kedar Shah is eagerly waiting to restart tennis activities.“There is no date given from when we can restart tennis in MSLTA guidelines but I hope, after May 31 we can resume. We will set protocols at our academy and e-passes will be given to all the players while other visitors will need a guest pass to enter the academy. Social distancing rules will be followed strictly,” added Shah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tennis-academies-ready-for-action-courts-sanitised/story-uwtvSmVxJHmOaXTGxYLnAP.html
31-05-2020||Pune||Going to college... for world class tennis training facilities||Pune: Moving to the US for college in 2019 was not pre-planned for Siddhant Banthia – it happened suddenly and now, he is a key part of the Wake Forest University team in North Carolina.Banthia was recruited by a college programme – where varsity coaches send invites to players based on their junior rankings. Banthia was a top junior player.Training for three hours, fitness for one hour and four hours for academics (business finance), Banthia has a packed schedule. If it was not for the Covid-19 lockdown, the Pune-based player would be in the middle of the US college tennis season. Right now, he is lockded down.How training with the Wake Forest University team helped you as a player?It is currently one of the best phases of my professional career, where I am getting to train in world-class training facilities under top coaches like Tony Bresky and Chris Eaton. It is a completely different environment from what we have in India. Actually there was a myth earlier in our country, that a player going to play US college tennis cannot be a good professional tennis player, but now it has changed. Currently we have many players who are now getting aware of the importance of training in top facilities.What are the benefits of playing US college tennis?You get to train with players from across the globe and the competitive level is very high. I am on a full scholarship programme where my food, stay and academic fees has been taken care of by the university. This helps a lot as you can solely focus on your game and training regularly with players from other countries helps physically.What’s the process for college tennis players?There are three divisions – Division 1, 2 and 3; based on their rankings coaches provide scholarships to players. Division 1 is top where most professional players come from. All the three divisions have different scholarships patterns.What is the structure of the tournaments?There are 150 teams in the Division 1 which are divided into different conferences. Our team, Wake Forest University falls under Atlantic Coast Conference. January to May, is the peak season for the tournaments.Top 16 teams qualify for NCAA Indoor National Championship which takes place in January, while for the NCAA Outdoor National Championship top 32 teams qualify. (Teams with highest points from their conference qualify for these tournaments)In these tournaments one team plays nine matches (three doubles; six singles); doubles match is of one set, while singles is of three. Winning two doubles matches gives you one point, while there is one point each for winning a singles match. Team wins the tie when they earn four points out of seven.These two tournaments are like the Grand Slam of college tennis and one needs to fight hard to winKnow the playerName: Siddhant BanthiaAge: 20Team: Wake Forest University teamCoaches: Tony Bresky, assisted by Chris EatonTitles won by team: 2018 - NCAA champion, Indoor National Champion and ACC conference champions; Ranked No 1; 2019: NCAA runner-up, Indoor national runner-up and ACC conference champions. Ranked no.2||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/going-to-college-for-world-class-tennis-training-facilities/story-tndsWPVFbwwRXasZWbCw7I.html
31-05-2020||Pune||Coming to US for college tennis? ‘Ensure you’re in shape and not playing catch-up’||Tennis players in India are increasingly getting admitted into US colleges simply to access the training and competition that exists there, both of the highest level. Mark Weaver, coached Rutuja Bhosale at Texas A&M from 2013-2017. Rutuja Bhosale is currently ranked 443 in the Rutuja Bhosale (Women’s Tennis Association) singles and 196 in doubles. Bhoslae played a key role in the Fed Cup where India qualified for the World Group play offs. Bhosale competed for Texas A&M from 2013-2017 and received a degree in University Business Studies. “Bhosale competed at the highest levels in the US and left as an all-American player, which is the highest of honours that one can receive in US college tennis,” says Weaver. Here explains the benefits of getting associated with United States university tennis. How does playing college tennis in the US help a player?Playing college tennis in the US can be beneficial in so many ways. With an individual sport like tennis, it is one of the very few times in a person’s playing career that they can be part of a team; other than playing in the Olympics or Fed Cup/Davis Cup, that is generally about it. College tennis has become extremely popular internationally over the last 20-30 years. What are the main challenges for Indian tennis players enrolling in US colleges?Being on a collegiate team, especially being in the top programmes such as Texas A&M, can be very demanding both on your mind and your body. We compete at a very high level where winning and losing is a very fine line. Often, positions on the team with regards to the line-up and who is playing and who is not playing can be of the finest margins. Therefore, it is important to already come in being a great shape. It is hard to play “catch up” especially if you come in too far behind your teammates.In general, from your experience, how many players turn professional after playing college tennis?I would say anywhere from 10-20 turn pro per year once they have completed their college career.What are benefits of spending five years playing US college tennis?Some of the benefits of playing college tennis in the US is the high level of coaching and training that is given on a day to day basis. Basically everything is paid for while the athlete is working on a very valuable college degree. In college, pretty much everything is set up for the student-athlete to just go out and play and get better without having to worry at all about setting up practices or competitions. Travel is all planned out for the student athlete. We give the student athletes all the finest fitness and training they need to succeed at the highest of levels.January to May is peak season for US college tennis? What have you suggested for players during the lockdown?The main things we are telling our players now is just try hard to stay in shape by working on their fitness and of course to rest their bodies and stay healthy. Even if not everybody can practice for now, they can still control the things that they can control, such as fitness and nutrition as well.Know the coachName: Mark WeaverAge: 47Team: Texas A&MCoaching experience: 8 years at Briarcrest Country Club as director of tennis in College Station, Texas, while serving as the volunteer coach for Texas A&M from 199-2007. 8 years as assistant coach/associate head coach for Texas A&M 2007-2015. Head Coach at Texas A&M 2015-Present||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coming-to-us-for-college-tennis-ensure-you-re-in-shape-and-not-playing-catch-up/story-b2ZKzCLwTzZWlzFIipe3cK.html
31-05-2020||Pune||Pune tennis players eye US universities for better training, facilities||For players who want to excel in professional tennis, one eye is set on becoming a top junior player and another one on US college tennis teams.Following the footsteps of Arjun Kadhe, Rutuja Bhosale – many players are now opting to spend five years of their career at US universities as it gives them a chance for overall development with academics and sports.“If you have a good game then there is no issue in opting for U.S college tennis. The best part is you get a scholarship, education is free and you have a lot better facilities to train. Generally, in India players evolve after the age of 23 so spending 18-23 in the U.S is always a good decision,” explains Hemant Bendrey, coach of Ankita Raina, Rutuja Bhosale and Arjun Kadhe.“One can easily get back into professional tennis circuit after they are back from the U.S and in those four years you get a lot of exposure,” added Bendrey.Kadhe was part of the Oklahoma state university team in 2014-17 while Bhosale joined Texas A&M from 2013-2017.“It was one of my career-best decisions, as it developed me as a person and a player. I became a much better player and not only on the court but also off the court it has taught me many things about life,” said Kadhe who was national collegiate athletic association (NCAA) no 1 ranked player for four seasons.“When you play college tennis, it is that you play for your team than yourself which I learned while playing for my team. It gives you an intensity which helps you a lot in the professional circuit,” added Kadhe who graduated with a business management major and marketing minor.For Bhosale, initial days were tough with the team and with academics as understanding the accent of the professor was not easy.“My coaches and my academic advisors helped me a lot and they were very helpful. Visiting Texas A&M helped me a lot because before that, I was very shy and had no idea of what to do with my career and my life but as time progressed I became confident,” said Bhosale.“I don’t know if I hadn’t chosen to go for college tennis, where I would have been right now professionally and I don’t regret those four years,” added Bhosale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/city-tennis-players-eye-us-universities-for-better-training-facilities/story-SDJafnnXzaEacoPauDH4lJ.html
31-05-2020||World||Covid-19 cases in France show further decline||France’s coronavirus cases are continuing to decline, health officials said on Sunday, with 14,322 patients currently in hospital, down from 14,380 a day earlier.The number of Covid-19 patients in intensive care fell to 1,319 from 1,361, the health directorate said in a statement. The hospital death toll from the virus rose by 31 to 18,475 - the 11th consecutive daily increase below 100.Numbers for nursing home deaths will next be updated on Tuesday, the directorate said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-cases-in-france-show-further-decline/story-70z7VYmZSdRA2UBt6glCvO.html
31-05-2020||World||Moscow bemused at US space ‘hysteria’ as Elon Musk taunts Russia||Moscow space officials on Sunday said they were puzzled by “hysteria” around the successful SpaceX flight as Elon Musk taunted Russia and US President Donald Trump vowed to beat it to Mars.On Saturday, SpaceX made history by becoming the world’s first commercial company to send humans into orbit, leading Russia to lose its long-held monopoly on space travel.Musk lobbed a jab at Dmitry Rogozin, the Russian space chief who once said Washington may one day be forced to “deliver its astronauts to the ISS by using a trampoline”.“The trampoline is working,” quipped Musk at a post-flight news conference alongside NASA administrator Jim Bridenstine. Both men laughed. “It’s an inside joke,” Musk added.Rogozin remained conspicuously silent for most of Sunday but offered his congratulations to Bridenstine after the Crew Dragon capsule with two NASA astronauts docked with the ISS.“It’s safe to congratulate you at this point with a successful launch and docking. Bravo!” he tweeted.“Please convey my sincere greetings to @elonmusk (I loved his joke) and @SpaceX team. Looking forward to further cooperation!”In 2014, Rogozin, then deputy prime minister, mocked the lack of a US manned flight programme after Washington announced new sanctions against Moscow which included some space industries. While Russia saluted the United States, it also stressed Sunday it was puzzled by the frenzy unleashed by what many hailed as the dawn of a new era.“We don’t really understand the hysteria sparked by the successful launch of a Crew Dragon spacecraft,” Roscosmos spokesman Vladimir Ustimenko said.“What should have happened a long time ago happened,” he added, tweeting excerpts of Trump’s congratulatory speech.- New rocket tests - Speaking at the iconic Kennedy Space Center in Florida after the flawless SpaceX launch, Trump vowed that US astronauts would return to the Moon in 2024 “to establish a permanent presence and a launching pad to Mars”.“And the first woman on the Moon will be an American woman and the first nation to land on Mars will be the United States of America,” he said.“We are not going to be number two anywhere.”The Russian space agency shot back, saying it was not planning to sit idle, either.“Already this year we will conduct tests of two new rockets and resume our lunar programme next year,” Ustimenko tweeted.He did not elaborate but Rogozin has earlier said the country planned to conduct a new test launch of the Angara heavy carrier rocket this autumn.Rogozin has also said Russia is pressing ahead with the development of its new intercontinental ballistic missile, the Sarmat, also known as Satan 2 by NATO’s classification.In 2018, President Vladimir Putin boasted that the Sarmat was one of the new Russian weapons that could render NATO defences obsolete.Russia had for many years enjoyed a monopoly as the only country able to ferry astronauts, and Saturday’s launch meant the loss of a sizeable income. A seat in the Soyuz costs NASA around $80 million.Roscosmos insisted that the US still needed Moscow.“It’s very important to have at least two possibilities to make it to the station. Because you never know...,” Ustimenko said.Some officials in Moscow sought to downplay the US feat.“This is a flight to the International Space Station, not to Mars,” said Alexey Pushkov, a member of the upper house of parliament.The Russian space programme sent the first man into space in 1961 and launched the first satellite four years earlier.But since the collapse of the USSR in 1991, it has been plagued by corruption scandals and a series of other setbacks, losing expensive spacecraft and satellites in recent years.The US launch and Musk’s joke set Russian social media alight, with wits ridiculing Rogozin and the Russian space chief’s name trending on Twitter.“How do you like this, Dmitry Rogozin?” one critic prodded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moscow-bemused-at-us-space-hysteria-as-elon-musk-taunts-russia/story-HQexKLIkE1lH3ywssa9xtK.html
31-05-2020||World||Unrest in US continues as protests over George Floyd’s death spread across country||The United States went through another night of chaos Saturday as protestors demanding justice for the death of George Floyd, an African American man, in police custody marched in city streets, vandalized property and clashed with police who hit back, seemingly unprovoked at times, most notably in New York City, and with excessive force.More than two dozen cities are under curfew, National Guard troops — US military reservists — have been summoned in 12 states and in Washington DC, where protestors clashed with Secret Service personnel outside the White House for the second day, undeterred perhaps by President Donald Trump’s threat of “vicious dogs and ominous weapons”.Trump has been under mounting pressure, even from his right-wing and conservative supporters, to speak to the nation in a unifying address that presidents had used before to calm the nation during similar unrests. He has so far responded with conflicting messages. While he has expressed outrage over Floyd’s death, he has condemned protestors as “thugs” and threatened violence in language used by racists before.Asked if the president has plans to address the nation on the issue, National Security Adviser Robert O’Brien told CNN Sunday the president had already addressed the issue. He has condoled Floyd’s death. “The President also said that we’re with the protesters who are demanding answers, just like we are, the peaceful protesters. But we’ve got to stop the mob violence.”Minneapolis, the Minnesota state city where Floyd died pinned down to the ground with a white police officer’s knee on his neck last Monday, is under curfew and the National Guard. Los Angeles in California and Atlanta, Georgia have also called in the National Guard. And several units of US military police are standing by to be deployed if needed.In New York city, police responded with increasing ferocity in day of escalating clashes with protestors. In videos that have gone viral, a mounted police officer police officer was seen knocking down a protestor, a police cruiser drove into a car and police officers used their bicycles to push back protestors. “Running SUVs in crowds of people should never, ever be normalized. No matter who does it, no matter why,” Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, the firebrand Democratic congressman from New York in a tweet. She went on to criticize the city’s Democratic mayor Bill de Blasio’s earlier comments on the issue as “unacceptable”. “This moment demands leadership & accountability from each of us. Defending and making excuses for NYPD (New York Police Department) running SUVs into crowds was wrong,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/unrest-in-us-continues-as-protests-over-george-floyd-spread-across-country/story-7MdwYOJ8WpNcBd96a5qOwL.html
31-05-2020||World||SpaceX Dragon capsule delivers two NASA astronauts to International Space Station||Just under 19 hours after launching from Florida, NASA astronauts Bob Behnken and Doug Hurley arrived at the International Space Station aboard SpaceX’s Crew Dragon capsule on Sunday, marking the first U.S. space capsule to do so with a crew since 2011.After a tense automatic docking sequence successfully linked Crew Dragon to the station’s docking adapter, the station’s current crew greeted Behnken and Hurley at an on-schedule hatch opening at 1:02 p.m. EDT. The critical milestone kicks off the crew’s potentially months-long stay in the orbital laboratory.“It’s been a real honor to be just a small part of this nine-year endeavor since the last time a United States spaceship has docked with the International Space Station,” Hurley said upon a successful “soft-docking.” They made it. After launching from @NASAKennedy on the @SpaceX Dragon Endeavour spacecraft yesterday, @AstroBehnken and @Astro_Doug have officially joined the @Space_Station crew today at 1:02pm ET — making history in the process. pic.twitter.com/A7oExw0SlDThe launch on Saturday by SpaceX, the private rocket company of billionaire entrepreneur Elon Musk, represented another milestone for the reusable rockets it pioneered to make spaceflight less costly and more frequent.It also marked the first time that commercially developed space vehicles - owned and operated by a private entity rather than NASA - have carried Americans into orbit.A SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket lifted off from the Kennedy Space Center at 3:22 p.m. EDT (1922 GMT) on Saturday for the journey to the International Space Station. Just before liftoff, Hurley said, “SpaceX, we’re go for launch. Let’s light this candle,” paraphrasing the famous comment uttered on the launch pad in 1961 by Alan Shepard, the first American flown into space. (Reporting by Joey Roulette; Writing by Daniel Wallis; Editing by Lisa Shumaker and Chizu Nomiyama)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hatch-opens-between-spacex-dragon-capsule-and-international-space-station/story-h7hjeNcOjCSJOpWUfj7FBP.html
31-05-2020||World||Mosques reopen in Saudi Arabia and Jerusalem amid coronavirus woes||Tens of thousands of mosques across Saudi Arabia reopened Sunday for the first time in more than two months, with worshipers ordered to follow strict guidelines to prevent the spread of the coronavirus as Islam’s holiest site in Mecca remained closed to the public.The Al-Aqsa Mosque in Jerusalem, Islam’s holiest site outside of Saudi Arabia, also reopened for prayers for the first time since it was closed in mid-March.With little regard for social distancing, throngs waited outside the holy site’s gates before it opened early Sunday, with many wearing surgical masks. As they were allowed to enter, the faithful stopped to have their temperature measured.The mosque was one of Jerusalem’s many holy sites, including the Church of the Holy Sepulcher and the Western Wall, whose access was restricted at the height of Israel’s coronavirus outbreak. Throughout that period, worshipers continued to pray in the alleyways outside the mosque.Jews also resumed their pilgrimages Sunday to the hilltop compound they revere as the Temple Mount, site of the two Jewish biblical temples.In Saudi Arabia, the government prepared for the reopening of around 90,000 mosques after sanitizing prayer rugs, washrooms and shelves holding copies of the Quran, the Muslim holy book.The Ministry of Islamic Affairs said millions of text messages were sent to people in multiple languages to inform them about the new rules for public prayer, which include keeping a two-meter (six-foot) distance between people during prayer, wearing face masks at all times and abstaining from greeting one another with handshakes or hugs.Children under 15 years-old were not being allowed inside mosques. The elderly and those with chronic conditions were being told to pray at home. People are also being advised to perform the mandatory ablution at home since washrooms at mosques will be closed, to use hand sanitizers and to bring their own prayer rugs and copies of the Quran.The restrictions call for mosques to open just 15 minutes before each of the five daily prayers and to close 10 minutes after they conclude. Friday sermons and prayers are to last no longer than 15 minutes.On Sunday, Saudi Arabia also lifted a ban on domestic air travel and permitted some public sector workers to resume office work again, though full attendance will not be allowed until mid-June.The new measures come as Saudi Arabia and other countries around the world begin to loosen restrictions and stay-at-home orders following weeks of curfews and lockdowns.However, the Grand Mosque in Mecca, which houses the cube-shaped Kaaba that Muslims around the world pray toward, will remain closed to the public. The city has been under a strict lockdown for several weeks. The mosque in Medina where the Prophet Muhammad is buried will be partially opened to the public to pray outside.The continued closure of Mecca points to the increasing likelihood that the kingdom may suspend this year’s annual Muslim hajj pilgrimage, which falls in late July. Already, a senior Saudi official has told prospective pilgrims not to plan for the hajj this year amid the global pandemic.Despite taking early and unprecedented measures to curb the spread of the virus, Saudi Arabia has recorded more than 83,000 people contracting the virus, including 480 deaths.Israel has weathered the coronavirus better than other harder-hit countries. It has recorded fewer than 300 deaths and has managed to mostly keep its daily infection count to the low dozens since the beginning of May. But it also imposed severe restrictions that battered its economy and sent its unemployment rate skyrocketing. Many of those restrictions, including on places of worship, began to be eased earlier this month.In Pakistan meanwhile, the country’s daily death toll from COVID-19 kept climbing, hitting a new high of 88 overnight.Amid reports of an acute bed shortage and near daily warnings from health professionals to tighten lock down measures, the government has kept mosques open, urging safe distancing but not enforcing it.In the latest easing of restrictions, the government has withdrawn the limits on congregations in mosques and churches.Pakistan’s coronavirus death toll of 1,483 is third only to Iran and Turkey in the Middle East. The country has counted 69,496 positive cases of COVID-19.In Lebanon, the Ministry of Energy announced the extension of a deadline for submitting bids for the country’s second offshore oil and gas licensing round until an unspecified date before the end of 2021 because of coronavirus. The date has been already postponed twice so far from Jan. 31 until the end of April and later until June 1.Lebanon has registered 27 deaths from the coronavirus and reported 29 new cases Sunday, raising the registered cases to 1,220.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mosques-reopen-in-saudi-arabia-and-jerusalem-amid-coronavirus-woes/story-0XBFDzKqEVQwJynj6RUh0M.html
31-05-2020||World||‘We’re sick of it’: Anger over police killings shatters US||Americans awoke Sunday to charred and glass-strewn streets in dozens of cities after another night of unrest fueled by rage over the mistreatment of African Americans at the hands of police, who responded to the violence with tear gas and rubber bullets.Tens of thousands marched peacefully to protest the death of George Floyd, a black man who died Monday after a white Minneapolis police officer pressed his knee on his neck until he stopped breathing. But many demonstrations sank into chaos as night fell: Cars and businesses were torched. The words “I can’t breathe” were spray-painted all over buildings. The damaged buildings include many near the White House.The scale of the protests, extending to nearly every part of the country and unfolding on a single night, seemed to rival the historic demonstrations of the civil rights and Vietnam eras. And by Sunday morning, the outrage had spread to Europe, where thousands gathered in London’s Trafalgar Square. Despite government rules barring crowds because of the COVID-19 pandemic, demonstrators clapped and waved placards as they offered support to U.S. demonstrators.“We’re sick of it. The cops are out of control,” protester Olga Hall said in Washington, D.C. “They’re wild. There’s just been too many dead boys.”People set fire to squad cars, threw bottles at officers and busted windows of storefronts. They carried away TVs and other items even as some protesters urged them to stop. In Indianapolis, multiple shootings were reported, including one that left a person dead amid the protests, adding to deaths in Detroit and Minneapolis in recent days.In Minneapolis, the city where the protests began, police, state troopers and National Guard members moved in soon after an 8 p.m. curfew took effect to break up the demonstrations.President Donald Trump appeared to cheer on the tougher tactics Saturday night, commending the National Guard deployment in Minneapolis, declaring “No games!” and saying police in New York City “must be allowed to do their job!”Presumptive Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden condemned the violence as he continued to express common cause with those demonstrating after Floyd’s death.“The act of protesting should never be allowed to overshadow the reason we protest,” Biden said in a late-night statement.On Sunday, maintenance crews near the White House worked to replace windows that had been completely shattered with large pieces of wood. Buildings for blocks were marked with graffiti, including curses about Trump and anti-police sentiments. Shattered glass still covered the sidewalks. The damaged buildings included the Department of Veterans Affairs, directly across the street from the White House.Cleanup soon began in cities across the country. In Madison, Wisconsin, hundreds of volunteers gathered to pick up after the violence that included setting a police squad car on fire, stealing from businesses and breaking windows at dozens of stores and an art museum.Few corners of America were untouched, from protesters setting fires inside Reno’s city hall, to police launching tear gas at rock-throwing demonstrators in Fargo, North Dakota. In Salt Lake City, demonstrators flipped a police car and lit it on fire. Police said six people were arrested and an officer was injured after being struck in the head with a baseball bat.Overnight curfews were imposed in more than a dozen major cities nationwide, including Atlanta, Denver, Los Angeles, Minneapolis, San Francisco and Seattle.At least 13 police officers were injured in Philadelphia , and at least four police vehicles were set on fire. In New York City, dangerous confrontations flared repeatedly as officers made arrests and cleared streets. A video showed two NYPD cruisers lurching into a crowd of demonstrators who were pushing a barricade against one of them and pelting it with objects. Several people were knocked to the ground. It was unclear if anyone was hurt.“The mistakes that are happening are not mistakes. They’re repeated violent terrorist offenses, and people need to stop killing black people,” Brooklyn protester Meryl Makielski said.Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp authorized the deployment of up to 3,000 National Guard troops to Athens, Savannah and any other cities where more demonstrations were planned Sunday. Kemp had already approved up to 1,500 Guardsmen to help enforce a 9 p.m. Saturday curfew in Atlanta.“The protesters need to know we’re going to support their efforts in a peaceful, nonviolent protest,” the Republican told television station WSB late Saturday. “The agitators need to know that we’ll be there ... to take them to jail if they’re destroying lives and property.”In Virginia’s capital city, graffiti invoking Floyd or directing slurs at the police dotted downtown, including many of Richmond’s some prominent Confederate monuments. At the headquarters of the United Daughters of the Confederacy, which news outlets reported was vandalized and set ablaze, a few men with long guns were among a small crowd gathered outside. One man said they were there to protect the building.In Ferguson, Missouri, where Michael Brown Jr. was shot and killed by a white police officer in 2014, sparking a wave of protests throughout the country, six officers were hurt after being hit with rocks and fireworks.Police have arrested nearly 1,700 people in 22 cities since Thursday, according to a tally by The Associated Press. Nearly a third of those arrests came in Los Angeles, where the governor declared a state of emergency and ordered the National Guard to back up the city’s 10,000 police officers as dozens of fires burned across the city.This week’s unrest recalled the riots in Los Angeles nearly 30 years ago after the acquittal of the white police officers who beat Rodney King, a black motorist who had led them on a high-speed chase. The protests of Floyd’s killing have gripped many more cities, but the losses in Minneapolis have yet to approach the staggering totals Los Angeles saw during five days of rioting in 1992, when more than 60 people died, 2,000-plus were injured and thousands arrested, with property damage topping $1 billion.But not all protests were marred by violence. In Juneau, Alaska, local police joined protesters at a rally in front of a giant whale sculpture on the city’s waterfront.“We don’t tolerate excessive use of force,” Juneau Police Chief Ed Mercer told a gathering where most people wore masks and some sang Alaska Native songs.The show of force in Minneapolis came after three days in which police largely avoided engaging protesters, and after the state poured more than 4,000 National Guard troops into Minneapolis. Authorities said that number would soon rise to nearly 11,000.“The situation in Minneapolis is no longer in any way about the murder of George Floyd,” said Gov. Tim Walz, who also said local forces had been overmatched the previous day. “It is about attacking civil society, instilling fear and disrupting our great cities.”Some residents were glad to see the upheaval dissipating.“l live here. I haven’t been able to sleep,” said Iman Muhammad, whose neighborhood saw multiple fires set Friday night. Muhammad said she sympathized with peaceful protests over Floyd’s death but disagreed with the violence: “Wrong doesn’t answer wrong.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/we-re-sick-of-it-anger-over-police-killings-shatters-us/story-odPhP5jWDSn2QETXBljKjI.html
31-05-2020||World||SpaceX’s astronaut-riding Dragon arrives at space station||SpaceX delivered two astronauts to the International Space Station for NASA on Sunday, following up a historic liftoff with an equally smooth docking in yet another first for Elon Musk’s company.With test pilots Doug Hurley and Bob Behnken poised to take over manual control if necessary, the SpaceX Dragon capsule pulled up to the station and docked automatically, no assistance needed. The linkup occurred 262 miles (422 kilometers) above the China-Mongolia border.Once the capsule was latched securely to the space station, the congratulations flowed from NASA, SpaceX and the astronauts.“Congratulations on a phenomenal accomplishment and welcome to the International Space Station,” SpaceX Mission Control said from Hawthorne, California.It was the first time a privately built and owned spacecraft carried astronauts to the orbiting lab in its nearly 20 years. NASA considers this the opening volley in a business revolution encircling Earth and eventually stretching to the moon and Mars.“Bravo on a magnificent moment in spaceflight history,” NASA’s Mission Control radioed to everyone from Houston.NASA astronaut Chris Cassidy greeted the incoming crew by ringing the ship’s bell aboard the space station.The docking occurred a little early, barely 19 hours after a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket blasted off Saturday afternoon from Kennedy Space Center, the nation’s first astronaut launch to orbit from home soil in nearly a decade.Despite the coronavirus pandemic, thousands jammed surrounding beaches, bridges and towns to watch as SpaceX became the world’s first private company to send astronauts into orbit, and ended a nine-year launch drought for NASA.A few hours before docking, the Dragon riders reported that the capsule was performing beautifully. Just in case, they slipped back into their pressurized launch suits and helmets for the rendezvous.Gleaming white in the sunlight, the Dragon was easily visible from a few miles out, its nose cone open and exposing its docking hook as well as a blinking light. The capsule loomed ever larger on live NASA TV as it closed the gap.Hurley and Behnken took over the controls — using high-tech touchscreens — and did a little piloting less than a couple hundred yards (meters) out as part of the test flight, before putting it back into automatic for the final approach. Hurley said the capsule handled “really well, very crisp.”The astronauts thanked everyone once the capsule was latched securely to the space station.“It’s been a real honor to be just a small part of this nine-year endeavor since the last time a United States spaceship has docked with the International Space Station,” Hurley said. He was the pilot of that last spaceship, shuttle Atlantis in July 2011.SpaceX and NASA officials had held off on any celebrations until after Sunday morning’s docking — and possibly not until the two astronauts are back on Earth sometime this summer.NASA has yet to decide how long Hurley and Behnken will spend at the space station, somewhere between one and four months. While they’re there, the Dragon test pilots will join NASA’s Cassidy and two Russian station residents in performing experiments and possibly spacewalks to install fresh station batteries.In a show-and-tell earlier Sunday, the astronauts gave a quick tour of the Dragon’s sparkling clean insides, quite spacious for a capsule. They said the liftoff was pretty bumpy and dynamic, nothing the simulators could have mimicked.The blue sequined dinosaur accompanying them — their young sons’ toy, named Tremor — was also in good shape, Behnken assured viewers. Tremor was going to join Earthy, a plush globe delivered to the space station on last year’s test flight of a crew-less crew Dragon. Behnken said both toys would return to Earth with them at mission’s end.An old-style capsule splashdown is planned.After liftoff, Musk told reporters that the capsule’s return will be more dangerous in some ways than its launch. Even so, getting the two astronauts safely to orbit and then the space station had everyone breathing huge sighs of relief.As always, Musk was looking ahead.“This is hopefully the first step on a journey toward a civilization on Mars,” he said Saturday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spacex-s-astronaut-riding-dragon-arrives-at-space-station/story-iWDiGXmvS62q4MWRHco1XL.html
31-05-2020||World||SpaceX capsule carrying NASA astronauts docks with International Space Station||A SpaceX Crew Dragon capsule carrying two NASA astronauts docked Sunday with the International Space Station. “Soft capture,” the moment when the spacecraft makes first contact and latching with the target vehicle, occurred at 10:16 am Eastern Time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spacex-crew-dragon-capsule-carrying-2-nasa-astronauts-docks-with-international-space-station/story-roHkmhOlw2D99pzME1S5zK.html
31-05-2020||World||Lipulekh border row: Nepal govt moves to back new map legally, tables constitutional amendment||The Nepal government on Sunday tabled a constitutional amendment in Parliament to give legal backing to a new map that shows Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura as part of the country’s territory, marking another twist in a border row with India.Law, justice and parliamentary affairs minister Shiva Maya Tumbahangphe’s proposal for approval to table the constitution (second amendment) bill in the House of Representatives or lower house of Parliament was unanimously endorsed.The government acted after the main opposition Nepali Congress, which had earlier sought more time to discuss the amendment within the party, directed its lawmakers to vote in favour of the proposal to make the new map a part of the Constitution. The central committee of the Nepali Congress made the decision at a meeting late on Saturday night.There was no word on the development from Indian officials.India had on Thursday called for “constructive and positive efforts” to end the border row with Nepal, saying mutual sensitivity and an environment of trust are needed for handling such issues among neighbours.The Nepal government earlier planned to move the amendment in Parliament on May 27 but had to hold off on it because of lack of support from the Nepali Congress, which is required for the two-thirds majority needed to pass the change to the statute.The delay allowed some breathing room for the two sides to tackle the border row, which began after Nepal protested against India’s opening of an 80-km road to Lipulekh on the Chinese border earlier this month. Nepal claims Lipulekh but the external affairs ministry contended the road was “completely within the territory of India”.External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said last week India is monitoring recent developments in Nepal related to the border issue. “We note this matter is receiving careful consideration in Nepal, taking its seriousness into account,” he said.“India is open to engaging with all its neighbours on the basis of mutual sensitivity and mutual respect, in an environment of trust and confidence. This is a continuous process and requires constructive and positive efforts,” he added.Nepal released its new political map, depicting Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura within its borders, on May 20.“An amendment bill is necessary to change the country’s map in the country’s Coat of Arms which is defined in Schedule 3 of the Constitution,” Tumbahangphe was quoted as telling the House by The Kathmandu Post.Nepal’s Parliament functions on Sundays, with a weekly break on Saturdays.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lipulekh-border-row-nepal-govt-moves-to-back-new-map-legally-tables-constitutional-amendment/story-sNGhnJZQ24svrVJNazWf1N.html
31-05-2020||World||‘If you protested last night, get Covid test this week’: US Mayors fear virus outbreak||The mayor of Atlanta, one of dozens of U.S. cities hit by massive protests in recent days, has a message for demonstrators: “If you were out protesting last night, you probably need to go get a COVID test this week.”As more beaches, churches, schools and businesses reopened worldwide, civil unrest in the United States over repeated racial injustice is raising fears of new coronavirus outbreaks in a country that has seen more infections and deaths than anywhere else in the world.Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms warned that “there is still a pandemic in America that’s killing black and brown people at higher numbers.”Violent protests over the death of George Floyd have shaken the country from New York City to Minneapolis, from Atlanta to Los Angeles. Some protests have turned into riots and clashes with police, leaving stores burned and torched cars in the streets. City officials have ordered overnight curfews to quell the violence.Floyd, a black man, died on May 25 in Minneapolis after a white police officer pressed a knee into his neck. It was the latest in a series of deaths of black men and women at the hands of police in America.Health experts fear that silent carriers of the virus who have no symptoms could unwittingly infect others at protests where people are packed cheek to jowl, many without masks.“Whether they’re fired up or not, that doesn’t prevent them from getting the virus,” said Bradley Pollock, chairman of the Department of Public Health Sciences at the University of California, Davis.The U.S. has seen over 1.7 million infections and nearly 104,000 deaths in the pandemic, which has disproportionately affected racial minorities in a nation that does not have universal health care.The Minnesota health commissioner warned that the protests are almost certain to fuel new infections.“We have two crises that are sandwiched on top of one other,” Minneapolis Mayor Jacob Frey said.Even for the many protesters wearing masks, those don’t guarantee protection. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says cloth masks keep infected people from spreading the virus but are not designed to protect wearers from getting it.On Sunday, many Americans were returning to in-person church services for the first time in many weeks as some emergency measures are lifted and mosques reopened across the Middle East, but in countries from India to Colombia the number of new infection was still on the rise.In Europe, unions in Paris flouted a ban on large gatherings Saturday to protest the dire conditions facing workers in the country illegally. Police used tear gas to disperse the crowds and said they had banned the march due to health risks.Hong Kong police have used tear gas, pepper spray and rubber bullets to break up protests in recent weeks. A ban on gatherings of more than eight people has been extended to June 4, the day of an annual candlelight vigil to mark the Chinese military’s 1989 crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators in Beijing’s Tiananmen Square.More than 6 million infections have been reported worldwide, with nearly 370,000 deaths, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University. The true death toll is believed to be significantly higher, with experts saying many victims died of the virus without ever being tested.The situation worsened Sunday in India, where new daily cases topped 8,000 for the first time and 193 more deaths were reported. India still is easing restrictions on shops and public transport in more states beginning Monday, although subways and schools will remain closed.In Saudi Arabia, tens of thousands of mosques reopened Sunday for the first time in more than two months, but Islam’s holiest site in Mecca remained closed. In Jerusalem, throngs of worshippers waited outside the Al-Aqsa Mosque before it reopened. Many wore surgical masks and waited for temperature checks as they entered.In Bogota, the capital of Colombia, authorities were locking down an area of nearly 1.5 million people as cases continued to rise.Bogota Mayor Claudia Lopez said no one in the working-class Kennedy area — inaugurated by late U.S. President John F. Kennedy in 1961 — will be allowed out, except to seek food or medical care or in case of an emergency. Factories that had been allowed to operate must close. The area has reported more nearly 2,500 infections and hospitals are reaching their limits.Elite sporting events will be allowed to resume in England starting Monday, but without spectators, paving the way for the planned June 17 return of the Premier League, the world’s richest soccer competition.But England’s deputy chief medical officer Jonathan Van-Tam warned that the situation remained precarious. Britain has seen nearly 38,500 deaths in the pandemic, the second-highest number of confirmed virus deaths after the United States.“I believe this is also a very dangerous moment,” he said. “We have to get this right.”Pope Francis, meanwhile, cautioned against pessimism as people emerge from coronavirus lockdowns.During Mass in St. Peter’s Basilica to mark Pentecost Sunday, Francis noted a tendency to say that “nothing will return as before.” That kind of thinking, Francis said, guarantees that “the one thing that certainly does not return is hope.”___Seewer reported from Toledo, Ohio. AP reporters from around the world contributed to this report.___Follow AP pandemic coverage at http://apnews.com/VirusOutbreak and https://apnews.com/UnderstandingtheOutbreak||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/if-you-protested-last-night-get-covid-test-this-week-us-mayors-fear-virus-outbreak/story-UpKBD7iTAd3lNwVlMQpBlM.html
31-05-2020||World||Pope Francis says pull together, avoid pessimism in this coronavirus era||Pope Francis is cautioning against pessimism as many people emerge from coronavirus lockdowns to lament that nothing will ever be the same.During Mass in St. Peter’s Basilica to mark Pentecost Sunday, Francis noted a tendency to say “nothing will return as before.” That kind of thinking, Francis said, guarantees that “the one thing that certainly does not return is hope.”He took to task his own church for its fragmentation, saying it must pull together.“The world sees conservatives and progressives” but instead all are “children of God,” he said, telling the faithful to focus on what unites them.“In this pandemic, how wrong narcissism is,” Francis said, lamenting “the tendency to think only of our needs, to be indifferent to those of others, and to not admit our own frailties and mistakes.”“At this moment, in the great effort of beginning anew, how damaging is pessimism, the tendency to see everything in the worst light and to keep saying that nothing will return as before!” the pope said. “When someone thinks this way, the one thing that certainly does not return is hope.’‘A few dozen faithful, wearing masks and sitting one to a pew, attended the ceremony as part of safety measures to avoid spreading COVID-19.While the Vatican has re-opened the basilica to tourists, the rank-and-file faithful still aren’t allowed yet to attend Masses celebrated by the pope for fear of crowding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pope-francis-says-pull-together-avoid-pessimism-in-this-coronavirus-era/story-zgXB71bwZqSmXxRZOeQAyH.html
31-05-2020||World||Nepal extends coronavirus lockdown till June 14||The Nepal government has extended the nationwide lockdown until June 14 amid a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases and decided to deploy the Army in the worst-hit areas.The country on Saturday registered its highest single-day surge in coronavirus cases with 189 new infections, taking the Covid-19 tally in the country to over 1,400.The Cabinet meeting held on Saturday decided to extend the lockdown. Meanwhile, the government has also decided to suspend all domestic and international flights until June 30.The prior-imposed nationwide lockdown, decreed to curtail the potential spread of Covid-19, was to end on June 2.The government also been decided to mobilise the Army to the worst-hit areas to effectively implement the lockdown.The government also decided to bring home the Nepalese people stranded abroad on a priority basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-extends-coronavirus-lockdown-till-june-14/story-tOXYRIIjs5nxYgyioSwmOL.html
31-05-2020||World||Nepal govt tables in parliament amendment bill on map that includes Indian territory||The Nepal government on Sunday tabled a Constitution amendment bill in parliament aimed at altering the country’s map amid a border dispute with India.Minister for Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs Shivamaya Tumbahangphe, on behalf of the government of Nepal, tabled the bill, a day after the main Opposition Nepali Congress also backed the legislation. It will be the second amendment to the Constitution. Nepal recently released the revised political and administrative map of the country laying claim over the strategically key areas of Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura. India reacted angrily to the move saying such “artificial enlargement” of territorial claims will not be acceptable and asked the neighbouring country to refrain from such “unjustified cartographic assertion”.The bill seeks to amend the political map of Nepal included in Schedule 3 of the Constitution. The new map will be used in all official documents including the coat of arms after the amendment bill is endorsed through parliament.  Parliament will now deliberate on the proposal before endorsing the bill. After its endorsement by both the Houses of parliament, the President will order issuance of the bill. The central committee of the main Opposition party Nepali Congress on Saturday decided to back the bill.Last week, the proposed bill was removed from the business schedule of parliament at the last minute at the request of Minister K P Sharma Oli. The discussion on the Constitution amendment bill was delayed as the Nepali Congress asked for more time to discuss the matter in its high-level body. Similarly, the Samajbadi Janata Party Nepal and the Rastriya Janata Party Nepal demanded that their long-standing calls for Constitution amendment also be incorporated. It requires a two-thirds majority to endorse the Constitution amendment bill.During an all-party meeting on Tuesday, Prime Minister Oli urged the top leaders of all political parties represented in parliament to unanimously endorse it.Ties between India and Nepal came under strain after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated an 80-km-long strategically crucial road connecting the Lipulekh pass with Dharchula in Uttarakhand on May 8.Nepal reacted sharply to the inauguration of the road claiming that it passed through Nepalese territory. India rejected the claim asserting that the road lies completely within its territory.Nepalese Foreign Minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali earlier this month summoned Indian Ambassador Vinay Mohan Kwatra and handed over a diplomatic note to protest against India inaugurating the key road.However, Gyawali last week said that he was confident that the Kalapani issue between the two neighbours will be resolved through talks.India on Thursday indicated its readiness to engage with Nepal to resolve the festering border row based on mutual sensitivity and respect.India is monitoring the current situation in Nepal, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said referring to Kathmandu deferring a plan to bring in a constitutional amendment to validate a new map that depicted Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as its territory “India is open to engaging with all its neighbours on the basis of mutual sensitivity and mutual respect, in an environment of trust and confidence. This is a continuous process and requires constructive and positive efforts,” Srivastava said.The Lipulekh pass is a far western point near Kalapani, a disputed border area between Nepal and India. Both India and Nepal claim Kalapani as an integral part of their territory -- India as part of Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district and Nepal as part of Dharchula district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-govt-tables-in-parliament-amendment-bill-on-map-that-includes-indian-territory/story-miwInL23P7y8wYxwF1WiDL.html
31-05-2020||World||Violence grips Karachi hospital over handing body of a patient who dies of Covid-19||In a yet another incident where Pakistanis broke the mandatory rule imposed to keep coronavirus infection at bay, mob violence gripped the Dr Ruth Pfau Civil Hospital in Karachi on Friday over the delay in handing body of a patient who died of coronavirus.Karachi police officials told Dawn on Saturday that a patient was brought to the hospital at 2:15 a.m. on Friday night but he died while being treated. The doctors suspected the patient to have the coronavirus and conducted a test, which came positive.However, the relatives of the deceased patient refuted the test results and alleged that the doctors had declared him to be positive even though he was “normal”.Officials said that some 70 people stormed the hospital ward at around 10:30 p.m. (local time). They resorted to violence and forcibly took away the body. Videos taken of the hospital’s entrance showed a large number of people removing equipment such as stretchers from the hospital premises and breaking the sanitiser gate installed there.Responding to allegations of delay, the medical superintendent at the hospital Dr Khadim Hussain Qureshi further informed the media that doctors at the hospital were only following the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the government for handling bodies of people who die from the virus.“We are government servants. We only follow what the government tells us,” he said.He added that the patient had come to the hospital complaining of a heart problem. The doctors suspected that he had the coronavirus and conducted a test.“It takes time for the result to be received,” he said further.Qureshi also noted that none of the doctors was injured in the violence but, he said, a female doctor was slapped by one of the deceased’s relatives.A senior police official said that the hospital administration had not approached police for lodging a first information report (FIR). However, he said, the police have decided to register the case against the persons involved over charges of rioting and creating hindrances in official work.Pakistan has been the most chilled country in the world despite being severely hit by the virus. One of Imran Khan’s minister calls coronavirus god’s punishment, the Punjab chief minister promises ulemas mosques won’t be closed, and worshippers continue to defy lockdown rules amid a rising number of COVID cases.It is true that Khan’s government has no plan and no direction to deal with the coronavirus. The fact becomes more evident after witnessing how the Pakistan prime minister begs for money to stabilise the country’s economy in the garb of coronavirus at a time when world leaders are looking at ways to treat, cure or take precaution against the highly dangerous contagion.The number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in Pakistan rose to 69,496 on Sunday after new infections were confirmed in the last 24 hours in the country. As per the province-wise break-up cited by Geo News, 27,360 new cases were registered in Sindh, 25,056 cases in Punjab, 9,540 cases in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, 4,193 cases in Balochistan, 2,418 cases in Islamabad, 678 cases in Gilgit-Baltistan and 251 cases in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir.As many as 1,483 people so far have lost their lives after contracting the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/violence-grips-karachi-hospital-over-handing-body-of-a-patient-who-dies-of-covid-19/story-oziD883U5iydfiVc2v26HO.html
31-05-2020||World||1.1 trillion euros rescue package, tax cuts and cash payouts: How Germany set an example for the world in dealing with Covid-19||The coronavirus pandemic has taken the world by storm, breaking the existing structures and severely impacting the economy.Countries like the United States, United Kingdom, Italy, Spain and others have been raveged by the global pandemic which started from China and quickly spread across the world.Europe has been badly hit. But there is one country in the continent which acted early, and fast, and has emerged as an example for the world. That country is Germany.As the number of cases started rising and governments across the world imposed stringent restrictions, Germany unveiled a rescue package worth 1.1 trillion euros.The massive package includes state-backed loan guarantees, cash injections and schemes to put millions of workers on reduced hours to avoid layoffs.And it has been designed to help almost every sector of the society.The German government will pay for additional unemployment benefits and new tax cuts to help businesses affected by the coronavirus.Workers forced to stay at home by the pandemic and government measures to contain it will receive between 70 and 77 per cent of net salary from the fourth month of unemployment, a ten per cent increase on previous provisions.From the seventh month, they will receive between 80 and 87 per cent.The country’s economy ministry has proposed as much as 50,000 euros in monthly aid to help the stricken firms. And there are also plans for tax cut for the salaried class and heavy rebates for businesses.Having weathered the coronavirus outbreak better than many of its neighbours so far, Germany has gradually started loosening restrictions in recent weeks.Shops, factories and restaurants are cautiously reopening but the economic damage is far from over as social distancing rules prevent a return to business as usual.The number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Germany increased by 286 to 181,482, data from the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) for infectious diseases showed.The reported death toll rose by 11 to 8,500, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/1-1-trillion-euros-rescue-package-tax-cuts-and-payouts-how-germany-set-an-example-for-the-world-in-dealing-with-covid-19/story-d0QLqajorXRExiHEhmcP2N.html
31-05-2020||World||UK taking ‘right steps’ to ease virus lockdown, says foreign minister||British foreign minister Dominic Raab said on Sunday the “careful” easing of the coronavirus lockdown was now the “right step” to take, shrugging off criticism for moving too quickly to allow people more social contact.“We are confident that this is the right step to be taking at this moment in time,” Raab told Sky News. “We are taking those steps very carefully, based on the science but also based on our ability now to monitor the virus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-taking-right-steps-to-ease-virus-lockdown-says-foreign-minister/story-797UjIhYLf66hwZdHVuVBL.html
31-05-2020||World||Massive protests raise fears of new virus outbreaks||The mayor of Atlanta, one of dozens of U.S. cities hit by massive protests in recent days, has a message for demonstrators: “If you were out protesting last night, you probably need to go get a COVID test this week.”As emergency orders are lifted and beaches and businesses reopen, add protests to the list of concerns about a possible second wave of coronavirus outbreaks. It’s also an issue from Paris to Hong Kong, where anti-government protesters accuse police of using social distancing rules to break up their rallies.Health experts fear that silent carriers of the virus who have no symptoms could unwittingly infect others at gatherings with people packed cheek to jowl and cheering and jeering, many without masks.“Whether they’re fired up or not that doesn’t prevent them from getting the virus,” said Bradley Pollock, chairman of the Department of Public Health Sciences at the University of California, Davis.One Atlanta protester said she has no choice following the death last Monday of George Floyd, a black man, after a white police officer in Minneapolis pressed a knee into his neck.“It’s not OK that in the middle of a pandemic we have to be out here risking our lives,” Spence Ingram, a black woman, said after marching with other protesters to the state Capitol in Atlanta on Friday. “But I have to protest for my life and fight for my life all the time.”Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms, in her warning Saturday evening, said “there is still a pandemic in America that’s killing black and brown people at higher numbers.”After another night of unrest in Minneapolis, Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz said that many protesters wearing masks were simply trying to hide their identities and “cause confusion and take advantage of this situation.”The state’s health commissioner has warned that the protests are almost certain to fuel new cases of the virus. Minnesota reported 35 deaths on Thursday, a single-day high in the outbreak, and 29 more on Friday.“We have two crises that are sandwiched on top of one other,” Minneapolis Mayor Jacob Frey said.The protests come at a time when many U.S. cities are beginning to relax stay-at-home orders. When Los Angeles officials announced the reopening of stores last week, they said political protests could resume but with a cap of 100 people.That didn’t stop several hundred people from showing up for a protest that shut down a freeway. Most wore masks, but many did not observe a buffer zone.Even for the many protesters who have been wearing masks, those don’t guarantee protection from the coronavirus. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends cloth masks because they can make it more difficult for infected people to spread the virus — but they are not designed to protect the person wearing the mask from getting it.In Europe, unions in Paris flouted a ban on large gatherings Saturday at a march to protest conditions for workers in the country illegally. Police used tear gas to disperse the crowds and said they had banned the march due to the “health risks that such an event is likely to generate.”Hong Kong police have used tear gas, pepper spray and rubber bullets to break up protests in recent weeks. A ban on gatherings of more than eight people has been extended to June 4, the day of an annual candlelight vigil to mark the Chinese military’s 1989 crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators in Beijing’s Tiananmen Square.More than 6 million coronavirus infections have been reported worldwide, with over 369,000 deaths and more than 2.5 million recoveries, according to the Johns Hopkins tally. The true death toll is widely believed to be significantly higher, with experts saying many victims died of the virus without ever being tested for it.The situation worsened in India, where new daily cases topped 8,000 for the first time and 193 people died in the last 24 hours. The last week has been the deadliest for the country since the outbreak began.In Saudi Arabia, tens of thousands of mosques reopened Sunday for the first time in more than two months, but Islam’s holiest site in Mecca remained closed.Elsewhere, throngs of worshippers waited outside the Al-Aqsa Mosque in Jerusalem before it reopened for the first time since mid-March. Many wore surgical masks and, as they entered, the faithful stopped for temperature checks.In South America, the city of Bogota, Colombia, will lock down an area of nearly 1.5 million people where cases are continuing to raise.Mayor Claudia Lopez said Saturday that no one in the working-class Kennedy area — inaugurated by late U.S. President John F. Kennedy in 1961 — will be allowed out, except to seek food or medical care or in case of an emergency. Factories that had been allowed to operate will be ordered closed.The area has reported more nearly 2,500 cases and hospitals are reaching maximum capacity.Elite sporting events will be allowed to resume in England starting Monday, but without spectators, paving the way for the planned June 17 return of the Premier League, the world’s richest soccer competition.England’s deputy chief medical officer Jonathan Van-Tam warned that the situation overall remained precarious. “I believe this is also a very dangerous moment,” he said. “We have to get this right.”___Seewer reported from Toledo, Ohio. AP reporters from around the world contributed to this report.___Follow AP pandemic coverage at http://apnews.com/VirusOutbreak and https://apnews.com/UnderstandingtheOutbreak||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/massive-protests-raise-fears-of-new-virus-outbreaks/story-g1D0vn4BtsSXBr8u1IAUxH.html
31-05-2020||World||Australian PM makes ‘ScoMosas’, wants to share them with PM Modi||Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison has made an Indian snack - the popular samosa - and wants to share it with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.He shared the images of the snack, and mango chutney along with it, on his Twitter feed on Sunday and named it ScoMosas.“Sunday ScoMosas with mango chutney, all made from scratch - including the chutney! A pity my meeting with @narendramodi this week is by videolink. They’re vegetarian, I would have liked to share them with him,” Morrison posted on Twitter and tagged PM Modi. Sunday ScoMosas with mango chutney, all made from scratch - including the chutney! A pity my meeting with @narendramodi this week is by videolink. They’re vegetarian, I would have liked to share them with him. pic.twitter.com/Sj7y4Migu9The tweet has so far garnered 32,000 likes. In a reply to Morrison’s tweet, BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi said: “Proposing your name for Michelin Star.”The two Prime Ministers are scheduled to hold a virtual meeting on June 4 that is expected to see an intensification of ties in the economic and strategic spheres.This will be Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s first bilateral summit to take place virtually given the embargos on travel due to the covid-19 pandemic.Australian prime minister Scott Morrison who was to come to India in January for the summit had to put off his visit due to the devastating wildfires ravaging large parts of his country. The visit was being planned for May but now the summit is to happen on 4 June, Indian foreign ministry spokesman Anurag Srivastava said on Thursday.The two countries are expected to sign an agreement for reciprocal access to military logistics facilities and other pacts aimed at developing alternative supply chains during the summit.The summit between PM Modi and PM Morrison will be held against the backdrop of heightened friction with China for both countries.Even before the Covid-19 crisis, the two sides had been exploring the possibility of cooperating on rare earth metals such as lithium, neodymium and dysprosium, of which Australia has the world’s sixth largest reserves. More than 90% of India’s imports of rare earth metals, worth $3.4 million in 2016, come from China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australian-pm-makes-scomosas-wants-to-share-them-with-pm-modi/story-DHUvpPKwyc2WE1H6d9ZHSO.html
31-05-2020||World||Testing on kids is a nervous next step on way to Covid-19 vaccine||There are many questions surrounding children’s role in the coronavirus pandemic but one thing is clear: they’ll need a vaccine, just like adults.That means injecting dozens of kids with an experimental product -- a prospect that makes many parents nervous. The University of Oxford and AstraZeneca Plc plan to start testing their jab in 5- to 12-year-olds as schools and nurseries reopen in the UKChildren appear to be less affected by Covid-19, though their role in transmission of the virus remains unclear. A vaccine would protect them and ensure they don’t infect others who are more at risk, like teachers or grandparents. But the pandemic has struck at a time of growing defiance against mass immunizations.“These are of course very personal decisions, but everybody needs to ask themselves: Would I want the vaccine for my child later on, when other people have contributed to making it safe?” said Beate Kampmann, professor of pediatric infection and immunity and director of the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine’s vaccine center. “We have to be grateful to people who have taken that little bit of a punt.”Kids were excluded from Oxford’s early research efforts. Their experimental jab, a front-runner in the global race to develop a vaccine, was tried on adults first, showing only transient side effects such as a temperature and a sore arm. When it moves into the more advanced stages of research in June, it will be administered to as many as 10,260 people, some of them children.Schools ReopenA spokesman for the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine team said more information on the child portion of the trial will be available when the group starts recruiting patients in the coming weeks. He declined to comment further.As schools and nurseries move to restart in several countries, the UK government’s committee of scientific advisers says there is “substantial uncertainty” about the impact on the pandemic. There is some evidence that children don’t contract the virus as easily as adults and suffer milder symptoms. Only a handful of deaths in children under 15 have been linked to the disease in Britain, compared with more than 38,000 fatalities for grownups.Recruitment for child vaccination trials in the UK is usually done through doctors’ offices and health-care workers. Trials tend to work their way down the age range, so it would be unusual for a child to test a vaccine before an adult. The jabs are often given at home and parents are asked to take regular temperature readings and a diary of their child’s reaction, with follow-up visits for blood tests.One perk of taking part can be that the clinical trial team will give the child their other routine immunizations on home visits for the length of the study. There’s no financial incentive to join, and parents can withdraw their child at any point.Even so, child vaccines are controversial, with a vocal community of opponents globally raising concern about purported links to conditions such as autism. Though reports of a connection have been discredited, they’ve had an impact on uptake by parents. There have also been legitimate problems, such as a small 2010 uptick in narcolepsy cases that was found to be related to a swine flu vaccine.Vaccine TrialFor most parents, inoculations aren’t a concern. When Karla Coletta became a new mother in 2006, she was invited to enroll her baby daughter, Carys, in a vaccine trial for meningitis B.“When you become a mum you suddenly become aware of your own mortality and meningitis was on everyone’s lips,” Coletta, whose daughter is now 13, said in a telephone interview. “I just thought, why would I not be interested in that, why would I not want her to be vaccinated against that. I knew they had to start somewhere.”Coletta said that if her children were in the right age bracket she would ask them if they wanted to participate in the Covid-19 vaccine trials.Personal gain and the greater good are the two most common reasons parents participate, according to Shamez Ladhani, a pediatric infectious disease consultant at St. George’s Hospital in London, and consultant epidemiologist for Public Health England. And while there are risks, adverse reactions are rare -- so much so that they often don’t get noticed until the vaccine goes on sale and is given to many more patients, Ladhani said.“Some side effects you actually don’t find out until you have given 100,000 doses -- that’s always a worry,” said Ladhani, who is frequently involved in vaccine trials. “But there isn’t a clinical trial that’s big enough that can pick that up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/testing-on-kids-is-a-nervous-next-step-on-way-to-covid-19-vaccine/story-oL2LobuICVKJXxBEZcAJwL.html
31-05-2020||World||Australia would welcome official invitation to G7, says government spokesman||Australia would welcome an official invitation to the Group of Seven (G7) nations and there has been contact on the matter between the prime minister and the United States, a government spokesman said on Sunday.“The G7 has been a topic of recent high-level exchanges,” the spokesman said in an emailed comment. “Australia would welcome an official invitation. Strengthening international cooperation among like-minded countries is valued at a time of unprecedented global challenges.”US President Donald Trump said he would postpone a G7 summit he had hoped to hold next month until September or later and expand the list of invitees to include Australia, Russia, South Korea and India.US-Australia ties have been strong, even though recent White House comments on the origins of the coronavirus outbreak have frustrated Australia’s push for an independent inquiry, sources have told Reuters. The two security partners also diverged radically in their management of the pandemic.Prime Minister Scott Morrison has been so far one of very few world leaders to pay a state visit to Washington during Trump’s tenure, and both leaders have openly signalled their camaraderie.Morrison, unlike some European leaders, has avoided criticising Trump publicly and has teamed up with the United States in its tougher stance against China, Australia’s main trading partner.Relations between Canberra and Beijing have been strained amid Australian accusations of Chinese meddling in domestic affairs and concern about what Australia sees as China’s growing influence in the Pacific region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-would-welcome-official-invitation-to-g7-says-government-spokesman/story-sRSsgyC1kdehF1OWMdXqII.html
31-05-2020||World||Russia plans coronavirus vaccine clinical trials in two weeks: Report||Russian scientists plan to start clinical trials within two weeks on a vaccine to combat the novel coronavirus, the health minister was quoted as saying on Saturday as authorities approved the country’s first anti-COVID-19 drug.Russia has the world’s third-highest toll of coronavirus infections after the United States and Brazil, and Kremlin officials have said the nation’s researchers are working on almost 50 different vaccine projects.“The tests are under way and we plan to start clinical trials in the next two weeks,” Health Minister Mikhail Murashko was quoted as saying by the TASS news agency. He said volunteers had been selected to take part in the trials.Drugmakers worldwide are rushing to develop treatments and vaccines for the virus that has caused 364,000 deaths globally. The Russian Direct Investment Fund said the Health Ministry had approved Avifavir for the treatment of COVID-19.It was developed on the basis of a drug known generically as favipiravir.RDIF said Avifavir had proved highly effective in treating patients with coronavirus in the first phase of its clinical trials. The final stage of clinical trials is under way, with the participation of 330 patients.There are currently about 10 coronavirus vaccines being tested in humans and experts have predicted that a safe and effective vaccine could take 12 to 18 months from the start of development.One of the Russian vaccine projects is being undertaken by the state-run Vektor Institute in Siberia, whose director general, Rinat Maksyutov, said on Saturday he hoped to complete clinical trials in mid-September.Maksyutov said vaccine trials on animals had been successful.Russia on Saturday reported 181 deaths from the coronavirus in the last 24 hours - down from the record 232 deaths the previous day - bringing the nationwide death toll to 4,555.Officials said 8,952 new infections had been confirmed, bringing the national tally to 396,575 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-plans-coronavirus-vaccine-clinical-trials-in-two-weeks-report/story-0DpahtprqQXI5KYaAwKuiM.html
31-05-2020||World||‘A beautiful ship’: SpaceX launch brings respite to Trump amid difficult week||President Donald Trump celebrated on Saturday the first launch of American astronauts from U.S. soil in nearly a decade, marveling at the power of the rocket ship and the danger faced by its passengers as they soared into the stratosphere and provided a moment of triumph as the country raged and mourned.The successful launch provided the president a moment to relish during what has been a difficult week with protests breaking out in several American cities over the death of a black man, George Floyd, while he was in police custody, and the country’s death toll from the coronavirus surpassing 100,000.“That was a beautiful sight to see and I hope you all enjoyed it,” Trump said shortly after the rocket ship designed and built by Elon Musk’s SpaceX company lifted off for a trip to the International Space Station.Trump addressed the unrest during a speech celebrating the launch, saying Floyd’s death was a “grave tragedy” that has filled the country with anger and grief. But he said his administration would stop mob violence, “and we’ll stop it cold.”“I stand before you as a friend and ally to every American seeking justice and peace, and I stand before you in firm opposition to anyone exploiting this tragedy to loot, rob, attack and menace,” he said. “Healing, not hatred, justice, not chaos, are the missions at hand.”For Trump, the second time was the charm. He also flew to the Kennedy Space Center on Wednesday before the launch was postponed at the last minute because of bad weather.“When you hear that sound and you hear all of that roar, you can imagine how dangerous it is,” Trump said. “When you feel the shake — and we’re very far away — but when you feel the shake over here, it’s pretty amazing. Beautiful sight. A beautiful ship, too.”Asked why he felt it was important to be in Florida for the launch, given all that is going on in the country, Trump said the launch was a “great inspiration” for the country.“We suffered something that was terrible, it should have never happened. And that’s one of the reasons I wanted to be here today. I thought it was so important to be here today,” Trump said. “And I think any one of you would say, that was an inspiration to see what we just saw.”Trump visited the launch control center to congratulate those involved and spoke with Musk, who wore a shirt emblazoned with the launch’s logo. Under Trump, NASA has provided companies with research and development funds to help build their own spacecraft. Ultimately, NASA hopes to rely in part on its commercial partners as it works to send astronauts back to the moon in the next few years, and on to Mars in the 2030s.Vice President Mike Pence likened the circumstances surrounding Saturday’s mission to what the nation experienced when astronauts on Apollo rockets launched during the tumult and clamor of the 1960s. He said the missions were a symbol of national strength and unity.“And today, as states across the nation take their first steps to reopen and recover from an unprecedented pandemic, and as our nation reels from the tragic death of George Floyd and violent protests of the past few days, I believe with all my heart that millions of Americans today will find the same inspiration and unity of purpose that we found in those days in the 1960s,” Pence said.___Associated Press writer Kevin Freking in Washington contributed to this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/a-beautiful-ship-spacex-launch-brings-respite-to-trump-amid-difficult-week/story-mw78ghnh8VuOQaRTM9ClGI.html
31-05-2020||World||Romania’s PM paid $600 in fines for not adhering to social distancing rules||Romania’s prime minister has paid fines totaling about $600 for smoking indoors and holding a meeting in a government building where several Cabinet ministers and other participants did not follow social distancing rules.In a photograph published in Romanian media, Prime Minister Ludovic Orban and others can be seen smoking with food and bottles of alcohol on a table.No one in the photo wore a mask or maintained the required spacing.Orban told the Mediafax news agency that the picture was taken on May 25, his birthday.The foreign minister and economy minister of Romania were among those attending.Romania has registered 19,133 confirmed coronavirus cases and 1,259 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/romania-s-pm-paid-600-in-fines-for-not-adhering-to-social-distancing-rules/story-uSAxlnOAA3b86gWRnOhK6O.html
31-05-2020||World||Hot Docs! North America’s largest documentary film festival goes online amid Covid-19 crisis||Cinemas remain closed across the world, the Festival de Cannes has been cancelled and the red carpet rolled up, and now North America’s largest documentary film festival is adjusting to the new normal created by the Covid-19 pandemic by taking the entire event online.The 10-day Hot Docs Festival was originally scheduled to commence on April 30, but the coronavirus crisis brought the curtain down upon staging multiple screenings before live audiences, like those in previous years. “Over a month ago when the Covid-19 pandemic first hit, we took the unprecedented step of postponing the public festival anticipating that we would soon be able to reschedule it,” said Hot Docs’ executive director Brett Hendrie, in a statement issued by the festival. Also read: Year 2020 - When a punch in the mouth left all plans upended...“But now, given the ongoing uncertainly around when live festivals and other large gatherings may safely be held, we are fortunate to have this option to bring these outstanding films to our audiences,” he added, referring to the streaming of what has been renamed as the Hot Docs Festival Online. Not that it will be missing original content or the premieres that have marked the festival over the years. The festival began on May 28 and will continue through June 6 during which it will feature over 135 official selections including 91 features and mid-length titles.Documentaries, of course, reflect takes on the current reality of the world but the 2020 version of Hot Docs, will obviously, be unable to feature films about the coronavirus, simply because there aren’t any as yet. However, it does riff upon a number of other topics that are in the news. As racism once again makes headlines, Indian-American director Shalini Kantayya’s ‘Coded Bias’ takes a look at discrimination embedded in advanced facial recognition technology, while ‘Hong Kong Moments’ focuses on the pro-democracy protests there last year just as they recur again.“Documentaries are vitally important to helping us understand the world we live in, particularly at this challenging moment in time,” said Shane Smith, Hot Docs’ director of programming.Indian films always have a presence at the festival and figure in its inaugural online avatar, with the highlight being ‘Shut Up Sona’, director by Deepti Gupta, that features singer Sona Mohapatra and her feminism in the context of a patriarchal Bollywood music industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hot-docs-north-america-s-largest-documentary-film-festival-goes-online-amid-covid-19-crisis/story-LaaxWWDJWPWHecDistU4mJ.html
31-05-2020||World||As Covid-19 rages in Brazil, 5-month-old emerges as miracle survivor||A five-month-old baby in Brazil has miraculously survived Covid-19, to become one of the youngest to be cured of the coronavirus disease.Baby Dom will be home in time to celebrate his sixth birthday. His parents told CNN that he contracted the disease a few months after he was born.The baby spent 54 days in hospital, out of this, he was in induced coma for more than a month, reported CNN.The baby’s parents took him to a hospital after he found it difficult to breathe, reported CNN, adding that initially he was treated for a bacterial infection. A second hospital later tested the baby for coronavirus and he was found positive, it added.Brazil, meanwhile, reported a record 33,274 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, its health ministry said, and the death toll surpassed that of France and now ranks only below the United States, Britain and Italy.The South American country has now reported 4,98,440 confirmed cases of coronavirus since the outbreak began, a level of contagion second only to the United States.The death toll in Brazil from Covid-19 increased to 28,834, with 956 new deaths in the last 24 hours, the ministry said.However, many states in Brazil are preparing to ease quarantine restrictions despite warnings from public health experts who say the worst is still to come.The total number of global Covid-19 cases has topped the six million mark, while the deaths have surged to more than 3,69,000, according to the Johns Hopkins University.Currently, the US has 1,770,165 confirmed cases and 1,03,776 deaths, both tallies account for the highest in the world, according to the University’s Centre for Systems Science and Engineering (CSSE).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/as-covid-19-rages-in-brazil-5-month-old-emerges-as-miracle-survivor/story-M12v5lPEp6d8gMGyhDsPGL.html
31-05-2020||World||Mylan’s Pakistan partner to sell Covid-19 drug within 2 months||Pakistan’s AGP Ltd., a partner of Mylan NV, plans to sell the Covid-19 treatment remdesivir, which has been shown to improve recovery of coronavirus patients, within one to two months in the Asian nation.AGP plans to seek permission from the country’s drug authority to import the medicine, Chief Executive Officer Nusrat Munshi said in an interview. It has a similar arrangement for the Hepatitis C treatment Sovaldi, which it will import from Mylan. AGP is Mylan’s exclusive distributor in Pakistan.The development comes a few weeks after remdesivir’s original creator Foster City, California-based Gilead Sciences Inc. signed agreements with four generic drug manufacturers in India, including Mylan’s unit in the country, and one in Pakistan to speed development and help meet anticipated demand. A unit of Pakistan’s Ferozsons Laboratories Ltd. is currently the only licensee in the country.The global push to develop coronavirus treatments and vaccines is accelerating as governments look for ways to ease lockdowns safely and restart economies. Moderna Inc.’s vaccine passed a crucial early safety test last week, and countries from the UK to China are pushing ahead to develop their own vaccines. Gilead’s drug was originally developed in 2010 to treat Ebola.Pakistan eased its lockdown by opening shopping malls and retail shops this month and saw a massive rush of people ahead of Eid festivities. A few markets were temporarily shut for not following social distancing rules in Karachi.“The concept of a lockdown is that it gives the country’s health-care system time to prepare,” said Munshi, adding that health-care facilities including beds haven’t been ramped up and mass testing hasn’t been conducted.AGP has also sold about 100,000 anti-body test kits since last month to hospitals and private companies looking to test their staff as more people return to work. The company has another 100,000 kits and is considering importing more as it is seeing high demand, according to Munshi.Pakistan has about 66,000 infections and 1,400 deaths. The nation has tested fewer people than Ghana and has still seen the probability of a test turning out positive almost double to over 20% in the past week, the highest since the outbreak began.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mylan-s-pakistan-partner-to-sell-covid-19-drug-within-2-months/story-eCiojHlnynfBsv0kNwKF2O.html
31-05-2020||World||Tear gas and burning cars in US cities as unrest continues||Tense protests over the death of George Floyd and other police killings of black men grew Saturday from New York to Tulsa to Los Angeles, with police cars set ablaze and reports of injuries mounting on all sides as the country lurched toward another night of unrest after months of coronavirus lockdowns.The protests, which began in Minneapolis following Monday’s death of George Floyd after a police officer pressed his knee on Floyd’s neck for more than eight minutes, have left parts of the city a grid of broken windows, burned-out buildings and ransacked stores. They have since become a national phenomenon as protesters decry years of deaths at police hands.The large crowds involved, with many people not wearing masks or social distancing, raised concerns among health experts about the potential for helping spread the coronavirus pandemic at a time when overall deaths are on the decline nationwide and much of the country is in the process of reopening society and the economy.After a tumultuous Friday night, racially diverse crowds took to the streets again for mostly peaceful demonstrations in dozens of cities from coast to coast. The previous day’s protests also started calmly, but many descended into violence later in the day.• In the Greenwood District of Tulsa, Oklahoma, the site of a 1921 massacre of black people that left as many as 300 dead and the city’s thriving black district in ruins, protesters blocked intersections and chanted the name of Terence Crutcher, a black man killed by a police officer in 2016.• In Tallahassee, Florida, a pickup truck drove through a crowd of protesters, sending some running and screaming as the vehicle stopped and started and at one point had a person on its hood, police said, but no serious injuries were reported. Witnesses said a group followed the vehicle and forced it to stop. Police handcuffed the driver but did not release his name or say whether he would face any charges.• In Columbia, South Carolina, a television reporter for WIS-TV was injured by rocks thrown outside the main police station. Several hundred people participated in the demonstration, tearing down the American and state flags in front of the building. They also swarmed a police car, breaking its windows, The State reported.• In Los Angeles protesters chanted “Black Lives Matter,” some within inches of the face shields of officers. Police used batons to move the crowd back and fired rubber bullets at demonstrators. One man used a skateboard to try to break the windshield of a police SUV. A spray-painted police car burned in the street.• In New York City, video posted to social media showed officers using batons and shoving protesters down as they took people into custody and cleared streets. One video showed on officer slam a woman to the ground as he walked past her in the street.“Our country has a sickness. We have to be out here,” said Brianna Petrisko, among those at lower Manhattan’s Foley Square, where most were wearing masks amid the coronavirus pandemic. “This is the only way we’re going to be heard.”Back in Minneapolis, the city where the protests began, 29-year-old Sam Allkija said the damage seen in recent days reflects longstanding frustration and rage in the black community.“I don’t condone them,” he said. “But you have to look deeper into why these riots are happening.”Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz fully mobilized the state’s National Guard and promised a massive show of force.“The situation in Minneapolis is no longer in any way about the murder of George Floyd,” Walz said. “It is about attacking civil society, instilling fear and disrupting our great cities.”At least a dozen major cities nationwide imposed overnight curfews ranging from 6 p.m. in parts of South Carolina to 10 p.m. around Ohio. People were also told to be off the streets of Atlanta, Denver, Los Angeles and Minneapolis - where thousands ignored the same order the previous night.The unrest comes at a time when most Americans have spent months inside over concerns surrounding the coronavirus, which the president has called an “invisible enemy.” The events of the last 72 hours, seen live on national television, have shown the opposite: a sudden pivot to crowds, screaming protesters and burning buildings, a stark contrast to the empty streets of recent months.Hundreds of people were arrested Friday, and police used batons, rubber bullets and pepper spray to push back crowds in some cities. Many departments reported injured officers, while social media was awash in images of police using forceful tactics, throwing protesters to the ground, using bicycles as shields and trampling one protester while on horseback.This week’s unrest recalled the riots in Los Angeles nearly 30 years ago after the acquittal of the white police officers who beat Rodney King, a black motorist who had led them on a high-speed chase. The protests of Floyd’s killing have gripped many more cities, but the losses in Minneapolis have yet to approach the staggering totals Los Angeles saw during five days of rioting in 1992, when more than 60 people died, 2,000-plus were injured and thousands arrested, with property damage topping $1 billion.Many protesters spoke of frustration that Floyd’s death was one more in a litany. It came in the wake of the killing in Georgia of Ahmaud Arbery, a black man who was shot dead after being pursued by two white men while running in their neighborhood, and in the middle of the coronavirus pandemic that has thrown millions out of work, killed more than 100,000 people in the U.S. and disproportionately affected black people.The officer who held his knee to Floyd’s neck as he begged for air was arrested Friday and charged with third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter — but that appeared to provide little balm. Many protesters are demanding the arrests of the three other officers involved.President Donald Trump stoked the anger, firing off a series of tweets criticizing Minnesota’s response, ridiculing people who protested outside the White House and warning that if protesters had breached its fence they would “have been greeted with the most vicious dogs, and most ominous weapons, I have ever seen.”Leaders in many affected cities have voiced outrage over Floyd’s killing and expressed sympathy for protesters’ concerns. But as unrest intensified, they spoke of a desperate need to protect their cities and said they would call in reinforcements, despite concerns that could lead to more heavy-handed tactics.Minnesota has steadily increased to 1,700 the number of National Guardsmen it says it needs to contain the unrest, and the governor is considering a potential offer of military police put on alert by the Pentagon.Governors in Georgia, Kentucky, Ohio and Texas also activated the National Guard after protests there turned violent overnight, while nighttime curfews were put in place in Portland, Oregon, Cincinnati and elsewhere.Police in St. Louis were investigating the death of a protester who climbed between two trailers of a Fed Ex truck and was killed when it drove away. And a person was killed in the area of protests in downtown Detroit just before midnight after someone fired shots into an SUV, officers said. Police had initially said someone fired into the crowd from an SUV.In Atlanta, where crews worked Saturday to clean up glass and debris from rioting the night before, a large electronic billboard flashed the message: “If you love Atlanta PLEASE GO HOME,” echoing pleas from the mayor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tear-gas-and-burning-cars-in-us-cities-as-unrest-continues/story-QFDUowXiG8eXiP8QFOggzN.html
31-05-2020||World||‘Should have been done 2 days ago,’ Trump tweets after Minnesota fully mobilises National Guard over George Floyd protests||US President Donald Trump on Saturday said the National Guard has been called in Minneapolis “to do the job that the Democrat Mayor couldn’t do” after riots following the death of an African American man in police custody.The full Minnesota National Guard was activated for the first time since World War Two after four nights of civil unrest following George Floyd’s death. Floyd died on Monday after Derek Chauvin, a white officer, pinned the man’s neck down to the ground with his knee for several minutes.At least six states have called on the National Guard to get the situation under control amid the raging demonstrations in Minneapolis and other places.“The National Guard has been released in Minneapolis to do the job that the Democrat Mayor couldn’t do. Should have been used 2 days ago & there would not have been damage & Police Headquarters would not have been taken over & ruined. Great job by the National Guard. No games!” Trump tweeted.Trump had warned earlier on Saturday that if the unrest continues in US cities, then the federal government would step in and the military would be used.He had said, while speaking at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida, that the death of Floyd was a “grave tragedy” but warned against surrendering to hostility.Before that, he had threatened protesters with violence in the morning in a series of tweets commenting on overnight protests near the White House. Trump first said he had watched the events and celebrated how the Secret Service responded, then wrote that “nobody came close to breaching the fence,” but “if they had they would have been greeted with the most vicious dogs, and most ominous weapons, I have ever seen.”On Thursday night, Trump had vowed that the military would be used to help authorities in Minnesota “assume control but, when the looting starts, the shooting starts.”His tweets were later hidden by Twitter.The death of George Floyd on Monday in Minneapolis has sparked demonstrations, some of them violent, in many cities across the United States, including one in Washington on Friday.The White House was temporarily locked down as hundreds of people gathered on Friday afternoon across the street in Lafayette Square Park.The Pentagon, in an extraordinary move, said it put military units on a four-hour alert to be ready if requested by Minnesota governor Tim Walz to help keep the peace.Four police officers involved in the arrest have been fired. Derek Chauvin, a former Minneapolis police officer involved in the death Floyd, has been charged with third-degree murder and manslaughter.A bystander video recording showed Chauvin kneeling on Floyd’s neck for at least eight minutes, while Floyd was saying that he could not breathe.Floyd, a Houston native who had worked security for nightclubs, was arrested on suspicion of trying to pass counterfeit money at a store to buy cigarettes on Monday evening. Police said he was unarmed. An employee who called for help had told a police dispatcher that the suspect appeared to be intoxicated.In a striking coincidence, Floyd and Chauvin had both worked security at the same Latin nightclub in Minneapolis, though it was unlikely they ever interacted, former owner Maya Santamaria, who sold the El Nuevo Rodeo club in January, told Reuters.Santamaria said Floyd worked inside the club on certain nights, supporting other staff with security. She said Chauvin, who worked outside the club as an off-duty cop for 16 years, had a reputation for roughing up customers, but she considered him responsible and a friend.Three other officers fired from the police department with Chauvin on Tuesday are also under criminal investigation in the case, prosecutors said.The video of Floyd’s arrest - captured by an onlooker’s cellphone as he repeatedly groaned, “please, I can’t breathe” before becoming motionless - triggered an outpouring of rage that civil rights activists said has long simmered in Minneapolis and cities across the country over persistent racial bias in the US criminal justice system.The US department of justice has made the investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) into George Floyd’s death a top priority.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-responds-to-minnesota-fully-mobilising-national-guard-over-george-floyd-protests/story-W0nl12R461CxuNc1ptVhqI.html
31-05-2020||World||China’s security law sends Hong Kong residents dashing for exit||Phyllis Lam has lived in Hong Kong for 42 years. It’s where she was born, went to school, met her husband and planned to raise her two children. But like a growing number of Hongkongers disillusioned by China’s tightening grip on the city, Lam now feels she has little choice but to leave. “I have no confidence in Hong Kong’s future,” she said in an interview. “I have two young kids, so I have to plan for them.”For many in Hong Kong who’ve long feared an erosion of their freedoms under Chinese rule, last week marked a tipping point. Spurred to action by Beijing’s decision to impose controversial national security legislation on the former British colony, residents have been flooding migration consultants with questions on how to move their families overseas.“We get an inquiry every 2 to 3 minutes,” said Gary Leung, chief executive officer of Global Home, a property and migration consultancy. The firm’s client requests has swelled to about 20 times normal levels, with Taiwan and Europe among the most asked-about destinations, Leung said.With many countries still enforcing travel restrictions to fight the coronavirus, it’s too early to gauge how many Hongkongers will ultimately move out. But consultants say the odds of an eventual exodus are growing as lawmakers from the U.K., the U.S. and Taiwan signal they may ease entry requirements for some Hong Kong citizens.A wave of emigration could erode Hong Kong’s attractiveness to multinational companies, hundreds of which rely on local talent to drive their growth across the Greater China region and the rest of Asia. The American Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong has warned that retaining top-tier employees in the city may become more difficult.Signs that more Hongkongers are planning to leave have been increasing since last year, when a now-scrapped extradition bill sparked mass protests and violent clashes with police in the heart of the city’s central business district.While Hong Kong doesn’t publish high-frequency immigration statistics, applications for good citizenship cards -- which certify a person doesn’t have a criminal record -- serve as a proxy because they’re often needed to apply for foreign visas. The monthly number of applications averaged 2,935 from June 2019 to April 2020, a 50% jump versus 2018.It’s not the first time the city has faced the prospect of a brain drain. An estimated 300,000 people left between 1990 and 1994, fearing Hong Kong’s handover to China from Britain would destroy the city’s civil liberties and capitalist system. Yet predictions of Hong Kong’s demise ultimately proved unfounded, with its status as Asia’s premier financial hub only becoming more entrenched over the following two decades.Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam said on Friday that the security law will only target “an extremely small minority of illegal and criminal acts” and that the “life and property, basic rights and freedoms of the overwhelming majority of citizens will be protected.” China’s central government has made similar remarks in the past week.Jolie Lo, an administrative executive, is among Hongkongers who plan to stay. She wants to be close to her aging parents and is wary of the challenges she might face overseas.“I may encounter other problems such as racial discrimination,” said Lo, who has studied in New York and worked in Beijing. “I won’t say I regret my decision to come back to Hong Kong. Since we are here now, we should just try our best to preserve our homes.”Read more: What Are the New Laws China Is Pushing for Hong Kong?Others see emigration as their best option. David Hui, managing director at Centaline Immigration Consultants (HK) Ltd., said his firm is now receiving as many as 100 inquiries a day from Hongkongers interested in moving to countries including Australia, the U.K. and Canada. Taiwan, Malaysia and Portugal are also becoming increasingly popular. “The national security law is definitely a push factor,” Hui said.Critics of China’s Communist Party worry that it will use the law to crack down on dissent and undermine the “one country, two systems” principle that has kept Hong Kong’s judiciary separate from the mainland’s since the 1997 handover. In a survey of 9,477 pro-democracy supporters last week by the Hong Kong Public Opinion Program, 96% said they opposed the law. Among those who said they weren’t pro-democracy, 29% opposed it and 62% supported it.“Now I fear censorship could be even more serious in Hong Kong,” said Ming, 30, who works in the art world and declined to give her surname, citing the sensitivity of the subject. “I don’t see a future here anymore, so it’s time to look for options.”Phyllis Lam and her husband, who are both holders of British National (Overseas) passports, haven’t decided yet where they’ll move. Canada is high on the list, but their top choice is the U.K. The country’s Home Office has said it may open a path to citizenship for almost 3 million Hong Kong residents who have BN(O) status.“In any case, we will send the kids away,” Lam said. “We don’t think the current environment in Hong Kong is good for them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-s-security-law-sends-hong-kong-residents-dashing-for-exit/story-k7ZwqgmJVgnawcfj0fBkFO.html
31-05-2020||World||Protests heat up across US over Flyod’s death, governors call in National Guard||Protests over the death of George Floyd and repeated police killings of black men grew Saturday from New York to Tulsa to Los Angeles, where police fired rubber bullets to scatter crowds and at least one police car burned, as governors in several states called in National Guard troops in the face of the rising unrest. The demonstrations, which began in Minneapolis following Monday’s death of George Floyd after a police officer pressed his knee on Floyd’s neck for more than eight minutes, have left parts of that city a grid of broken windows, burned-out buildings and ransacked stores. They have since become a national phenomenon as protesters decry years of deaths at police hands. The large crowds involved, with many people not wearing masks or practicing social distancing, raised concerns among health experts about the potential for helping spread the coronavirus pandemic at a time when overall deaths are on the decline nationwide and much of the country is in the process of reopening society and the economy. After a tumultuous Friday night, racially diverse crowds took to the streets again for mostly peaceful demonstrations in dozens of cities from coast to coast. The previous day’s protests also started calmly, but many descended into violence later in the day. In the Greenwood District of Tulsa, Oklahoma, the site of a 1921 massacre of black people that left as many as 300 dead and the city’s thriving black district in ruins, protesters blocked intersections and chanted the name of Terence Crutcher, a black man killed by a police officer in 2016. In Tallahassee, Florida, a pickup truck drove through a crowd of protesters, sending some running and screaming as the vehicle stopped and started and at one point had a person on its hood, police said, but no serious injuries were reported. Witnesses said a group followed the vehicle and forced it to stop. Police handcuffed the driver but did not release his name or say whether he would face any charges. In Columbia, South Carolina, a television reporter for WIS-TV was injured by rocks thrown outside the main police station. Several hundred people participated in the demonstration, tearing down the American and state flags in front of the building. They also swarmed a police car, breaking its windows, The State reported. In Los Angeles protesters chanted “Black Lives Matter,” some within inches of the face shields of officers. Police used batons to move the crowd back and fired rubber bullets at demonstrators. One man used a skateboard to try to break the windshield of a police SUV. A spray-painted police car burned in the street. In New York City, video posted to social media showed officers using batons and shoving protesters down as they took people into custody and cleared streets. One video showed on officer slam a woman to the ground as he walked past her in the street. “Our country has a sickness. We have to be out here,” said Brianna Petrisko, among those at lower Manhattan’s Foley Square, where most were wearing masks amid the coronavirus pandemic. “This is the only way we’re going to be heard.” Back in the city where the protests began, 29-year-old Sam Allkija said Saturday in Minneapolis that the damage seen in recent days is a manifestation of longstanding frustration and rage in the black community. “I don’t condone them,” he said. “But you have to look deeper into why these riots are happening.” Others echoed him: “Our country has a sickness. We have to be out here,” said Brianna Petrisko, who was at lower Manhattan’s Foley Square where most demonstrators were wearing masks amid the pandemic. “This is the only way we’re going to be heard.” Minnesota Governor Tim Walz fully mobilized the state’s National Guard and promised a massive show of force. “The situation in Minneapolis is no longer in any way about the murder of George Floyd,” Walz said. “It is about attacking civil society, instilling fear and disrupting our great cities.” The unrest comes at a time when most Americans have spent months inside over concerns surrounding the coronavirus, which the president has called an “invisible enemy.” The events of the last 72 hours, seen live on national television, have shown the opposite: a sudden pivot to crowds, screaming protesters and burning buildings, a stark contrast to the empty streets of recent months. Hundreds of people were arrested Friday, and police used batons, rubber bullets and pepper spray to push back crowds in some cities. Many departments reported injured officers, while social media was awash in images of police using forceful tactics, throwing protesters to the ground, using bicycles as shields and trampling one protester while on horseback. This week’s unrest recalled the riots in Los Angeles nearly 30 years ago after the acquittal of the white police officers who beat Rodney King, a black motorist who had led them on a high-speed chase. The protests of Floyd’s killing have gripped many more cities, but the losses in Minneapolis have yet to approach the staggering totals Los Angeles saw during five days of rioting in 1992, when more than 60 people died, 2,000-plus were injured and thousands arrested, with property damage topping $1 billion. Many protesters spoke of frustration that Floyd’s death was one more in a litany. It came in the wake of the killing in Georgia of Ahmaud Arbery, a black man who was shot dead after being pursued by two white men while running in their neighborhood, and in the middle of the coronavirus pandemic that has thrown millions out of work, killed more than 100,000 people in the U.S. and disproportionately affected black people. The officer who held his knee to Floyd’s neck as he begged for air was arrested Friday and charged with third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter — but that appeared to provide little balm. Many protesters are demanding the arrests of the three other officers involved. President Donald Trump stoked the anger, firing off a series of tweets criticizing Minnesota’s response, ridiculing people who protested outside the White House and warning that if protesters had breached its fence they would “have been greeted with the most vicious dogs, and most ominous weapons, I have ever seen.” Leaders in many affected cities have voiced outrage over Floyd’s killing and expressed sympathy for protesters’ concerns. But as unrest intensified, they spoke of a desperate need to protect their cities and said they would call in reinforcements, despite concerns that could lead to more heavy-handed tactics. Minnesota has steadily increased to 1,700 the number of National Guardsmen it says it needs to contain the unrest, and the governor is considering a potential offer of military police put on alert by the Pentagon. Governors in Georgia, Kentucky, Ohio and Texas also activated the National Guard after protests there turned violent overnight, while nighttime curfews were put in place in Portland, Oregon, Cincinnati and elsewhere. Police in St. Louis were investigating the death of a protester who climbed between two trailers of a Fed Ex truck and was killed when it drove away. And a person was killed in the area of protests in downtown Detroit just before midnight after someone fired shots into an SUV, officers said. Police had initially said someone fired into the crowd from an SUV. In Atlanta, where crews worked Saturday to clean up glass and debris from rioting the night before, a large electronic billboard flashed the message:”If you love Atlanta PLEASE GO HOME,” echoing pleas from the mayor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/protests-heat-up-across-us-over-flyod-s-death-governors-call-in-national-guard/story-B8VadftHArEYfZqN8N91RO.html
31-05-2020||World||Global Covid-19 cases hit 6 million as UN sounds alarm on economy||As the number of coronavirus infections worldwide crossed yet another dark milestone - going past the 6-million-mark as per international monitor Worldometer - the UN chief sent out a chilling warning for a world ravaged by the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdowns.Globally, the coronavirus has killed nearly 370,000 people.Antonio Guterres has warned that the pandemic will cause “unimaginable devastation, usher in hunger and famine of historic proportions and lead to a loss of $8.5 trillion in global output” - the sharpest contraction since the Great Depression of the 1930s - “if nations did not respond with unity and solidarity”.The UN secretary general said, “Sixty million more people have been pushed into extreme poverty. Up to half the global workforce is without livelihoods.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-cases-hit-6-million-as-un-sounds-alarm-on-economy/story-Bpiky74SvB15OfhUIO5VeO.html
31-05-2020||World||Jerusalem’s Al-Aqsa mosque reopens after more than two months||Jerusalem’s Al-Aqsa mosque reopened to worshippers on Sunday after a two-and-a-half month coronavirus closure, but Muslim authorities imposed some precautions as health officials warn of an uptick in local infections.The resumption of prayers at Islam’s third-holiest site caps a sombre period for Jerusalem’s Muslims, who this year marked the holy fasting month of Ramadan and the Eid al-Fitr holiday without their usual daily visits to Al-Aqsa and the adjoining Dome of the Rock.The Council of Islamic Waqf cited the slowed local spread of Covid-19 in lifting entry restrictions and reopening the compound’s iconic shrines, which shut on March 15.Hundreds of Muslims chanted “God is the greatest” as they packed into the compound in Jerusalem’s walled Old City early on Sunday for dawn prayers, a Reuters witness said. Some got on their knees and kissed the ground as they entered.But Muslim authorities imposed some measures to reduce the risk of contagion, as new cases in Israel spiked in recent days.Worshippers must wear face masks and bring personal prayer rugs should they wish to pray inside the shrines or on the compound’s outdoor grounds, the council said in a statement.The council did not say if there would be a limit on the number of people allowed in the 35-acre compound, known to Muslims as the Noble Sanctuary and to Jews as the Temple Mount.Around 700 worshippers were present on the compound for dawn prayers, the vast majority of whom wore face masks and brought prayer rugs.Muslims believe the site to be where the Prophet Mohammad ascended to heaven. Jews revere it as the site of the Jewish temples of antiquity.There have been 17,000 coronavirus cases and 284 deaths in Israel, and 386 cases and three deaths in the occupied West Bank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/jerusalem-s-al-aqsa-mosque-reopens-after-more-than-two-months/story-hUlgrWXtca7HrutQv50BTM.html
31-05-2020||World||US action on Hong Kong is ‘doomed to fail’, says China||The mouthpiece newspaper of China’s ruling Communist Party said on Saturday that the US decision to end some trading privileges for Hong Kong “grossly interferes” in China’s internal affairs and is “doomed to fail”.The Hong Kong government called US President Donald Trump’s announcement unjustified and said it is “not unduly worried by such threats”, despite concern that they could drive companies away from the Asian financial and trading centre.The Trump administration has also banned some Chinese students and researchers from entering the US after accusing them of stealing intellectual property, the White House said on Friday in a statement cited by the Chinese state media. The entry ban goes into effect at midnight on June 1.An editorial in China’s official People’s Daily newspaper said that attempts at “forcing China to make concessions on core interests including sovereignty and security through blackmailing or coercion... can only be wishful thinking and day-dreaming!”Trump’s move came after China’s ceremonial parliament voted on Thursday to bypass Hong Kong’s legislature and develop and enact national security legislation on its own for the semi-autonomous territory. China had issued no response as of late on Saturday, but had earlier said it would retaliate if the US went ahead with its threat to revoke trading advantages granted to Hong Kong after its handover from British to Chinese rule in 1997. “This hegemonic act of attempting to interfere in Hong Kong affairs and grossly interfere in China’s internal affairs will not frighten the Chinese people and is doomed to fail,” the People’s Daily said.In Hong Kong, small groups of Beijing supporters marched to the US consulate on Saturday carrying China flags and signs protesting “American interference in China’s internal affair” and calling Trump “shameless and useless”. Elsewhere in the city, activists including Joshua Wong held a press meet to welcome Trump’s announcement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-action-on-hong-kong-is-doomed-to-fail-says-china/story-dv0jopQL5yjxa6vJYLNEEJ.html
31-05-2020||World||As Minneapolis burns, mayor takes heat for the response||First-term Minneapolis Mayor Jacob Frey appeared to be doing everything right.He worked with the city’s booming business community and the City Council. He reached out to minority neighborhoods and advocated for affordable housing. He implemented stricter disciplinary measures against police who violated the city’s body camera policy.When George Floyd, a handcuffed black man, died Monday after a white police officer pressed his knee into his neck for several minutes and ignored his “I can’t breathe” pleas, Frey quickly expressed outrage and called for charges against the officer. Four officers were fired the next day, and on Friday, Officer Derek Chauvin was charged in Floyd’s death.But Frey’s leadership is being questioned after police failed to quell several nights of rioting, fires and ransacking of local businesses that followed Floyd’s death. Frey, who pleaded for calm, also approved the decision to abandon the city’s 3rd Precinct station on Thursday night, surrendering it to protesters who set fire to the building.The night the station burned, Frey appeared at an early-morning news conference after hours of criticism on social media for a police response that didn’t confront the violence despite the activation of the National Guard. As he began talking, one reporter snapped, “What’s the plan here?” Frey struggled to answer, and the next morning, Gov. Tim Walz — like Frey, a Democrat — criticized the “abject failure” of the city’s response and said the state had taken control. President Donald Trump took to Twitter to call Frey a “very weak Radical Left Mayor” and threatened to get involved.By early Saturday morning, it was Walz who found himself struggling with the enormity of the challenge, conceding that he didn’t have enough people to cope with the protests and moving to mobilize another 1,000 Guard members. Walz also took pains to praise Frey, who appeared alongside him after another night of unrest.Some wonder whether Frey’s approach to the crisis might damage his chances for reelection next year. The 38-year-old former lawyer, community organizer and one-term City Council member took office in 2018 after defeating Betsy Hodges, whose time as mayor was marred by two high-profile police shootings.The 2015 shooting of 24-year-old black resident Jamar Clark after a scuffle with two white police officers set off weeks of protests; neither officer was charged. The 2017 shooting of unarmed Australia native Justine Ruszczyk Damond, who had called 911 to report a possible sexual assault behind her house, provoked an international outcry. The black officer in that case was convicted of third-degree murder and is serving a 12 1/2-year term.Frey campaigned partly on a promise to add police officers. But a City Council committee this spring voted against applying for a federal grant to hire 10 new officers for traffic enforcement, with one member saying he worried it would exacerbate racial disparities in vehicle stops.Community activist Mel Reeves, who said he has led rallies to protest Floyd’s killing, refused to discuss the mayor’s response except to say that Frey had been “put in a difficult position.” He said the black community doesn’t trust police and prosecutors to do the right thing.“The mayor is new, and he said all the right things,” Reeves said. “This is not about the mayor; it’s about the police department.”The day after the 3rd Precinct fire, University of Minnesota political science professor Larry Jacobs said Frey was “out of his depth” and “clearly unable to understand what he has to do to restore order while also creating the kind of healing that has to happen in Minneapolis.”He said abandoning the police station “sent a powerful message” that the city was not in control.“There needs to be another message: ‘Here is the line and order will be maintained,’” said Jacobs. “You’ve got businesses that are just shocked without words to see property going up in flames, often with no police intervention at all. You have the black community (that has) heard his words but does not believe them.“He worked really hard at those relationships and they appear to be in tatters. And I think a lot of residents are unnerved by the violence and the chaos.”Jonathan Weinhagen, president and CEO of the Minneapolis Regional Chamber, said the mayor still has his support, and that many businesses damaged by the violent protests, including those owned by minorities and immigrants, want to rebuild.“There is a lot of fear right now. If your store has been hit, you feel violated,” said Weinhagen, adding that some businesses already were suffering because of the coronavirus restrictions. “They were just beginning to see some light and this hit.”But he believes the mayor is “leading with his values” and getting a lot of things right, including requesting the Guard assistance and implementing a curfew Friday and Saturday nights.Jacobs, the political scientist, said Frey has been energetic, upbeat and dynamic, effectively leading the fast-growing city. But his inexperience with crisis management has shown.“Until about a week ago, he looked to be on glide path to reelection, and within a week, his mayorship looks like it’s crumbled,” Jacobs said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/as-minneapolis-burns-mayor-takes-heat-for-the-response/story-MXXVwLcYTWxHz4iFyedx5O.html
31-05-2020||World||Elon Musk’s SpaceX ship blasts off with 2 US astronauts. Here’s what makes it special||Falcon 9, a rocket ship built by billionaire entrepreneur Elon Musk’s SpaceX, blasted off with two Americans on Saturday, ushering in a new era in commercial space travel.The National Aeronautics and Space Administration’s (Nasa’s) Doug Hurley and Bob Behnken rode skyward aboard a white-and-black, bullet-shaped Dragon capsule on top of the Falcon 9 rocket, lifting off at 3:22pm from the same launch pad used to send Apollo crews to the moon a half-century ago.They slipped safely into orbit minutes later.“Let’s light this candle,” Hurley said just before ignition, using the historic words used by Alan Shepard on America’s first human spaceflight, in 1961. Also Watch | SpaceX Rocket Lifts Off, Trump says Dragon Capsule reached low Earth orbitHere’s what makes the SpaceX liftoff special:* SpaceX became the first private company to launch people into orbit, a feat achieved previously by only three governments: the US, Russia and China.* The last time Nasa launched astronauts into space aboard a brand new vehicle was 40 years ago at the start of the space shuttle program.* The milestone flight marked the first time that American astronauts have flown from US soil since the space shuttle program ended in 2011. * The launch comes 18 years after Musk founded Space Exploration Technologies Corp with the ultimate goal of populating other planets. * Doug Hurley and Bob Behnken are scheduled to arrive Sunday at the International Space Station for a stay of up to four months. They will come home with a Right Stuff-style splashdown at sea, something the world hasn’t witnessed since the 1970s.* The flight also ended a nine-year launch drought for Nasa. Ever since it retired the space shuttle in 2011, Nasa has relied on Russian spaceships launched from Kazakhstan to take US astronauts to and from the space station.* The launch comes 18 years after Elon Musk founded Space Exploration Technologies Corp with the ultimate goal of populating other planets. * The astronauts’ voyage, known as Demo-2, is the final major test of SpaceX’s human spaceflight system before Nasa certifies it to fly working missions to the space station.* For Elon Musk, the launch represents another milestone for the reusable rockets his company pioneered to make spaceflight less costly and more frequent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/elon-musk-s-spacex-ship-blasts-off-with-2-us-astronauts-here-s-what-makes-it-special/story-sPZMiStKoG0aPmZucVf6mN.html
31-05-2020||World||Trump calls for delay in Group of 7 meeting, seeks expansion||President Donald Trump said Saturday that he will postpone until the fall a meeting of Group of 7 nations he had planned to hold next month at the White House despite the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. And he said the group’s membership should include Russia, Australia, South Korea and India.Trump told reporters on Air Force One as he returned to Washington from Florida that he feels the current makeup of the group is “very outdated” and doesn’t properly represent “what’s going on in the world.”He said he had not yet set a new date for the meeting, but thought the gathering could take place in September, around the time of the annual meeting of the United Nations in New York, or perhaps after the US election in November.The surprise announcement came after German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s office said Saturday that she would not attend the meeting unless the course of the coronavirus spread had changed by then.The leaders of the world’s major economies were slated to meet in June in the US at Camp David, the presidential retreat in Maryland, but the coronavirus outbreak hobbled those plans. Trump announced in March he was canceling the summit because of the pandemic and that the leaders would confer by video conference instead. But Trump then switched course, saying a week ago that he was again planning to host an in-person meeting.“Now that our Country is ‘Transitioning back to Greatness’, I am considering rescheduling the G-7, on the same or similar date, in Washington, D.C., at the legendary Camp David,” Trump tweeted. “The other members are also beginning their COMEBACK. It would be a great sign to all - normalization!”The G7 members are Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom and the United States. The group’s presidency rotates annually among member countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-calls-for-delay-in-group-of-7-meeting-seeks-expansion/story-umy5BQ6iWlOgiX00Vjxz9N.html
31-05-2020||World||Afghan reporter killed as govt says ready for Taliban dialogue||A roadside bomb killed a television journalist in Kabul on Saturday, soon after a top Afghan official appointed to lead peace talks with the Taliban said his team was ready for the long-delayed dialogue.The blast, which targeted a minibus carrying 15 employees of private television channel Khurshid TV, was claimed by the Islamic State group, according to SITE Intelligence which monitors jihadist activity.The attack, which the government called “heinous”, claimed the lives of a reporter and a driver, and punctuated an overall reduction in violence that has followed on from a three-day ceasefire the Taliban instigated May 24.Also read: In the Afghan theatre, India and its balancing act | OpinionJust hours before the blast, Afghanistan’s former chief executive Abdullah Abdullah, who has been appointed to head talks with the Taliban, said his team was positioned to start dialogue.Abdullah credited the general lull in violence for setting the tone for discussions.“The ceasefire, a reduction in violence and the exchange of prisoners have all paved the way for a good beginning,” Abdullah said at his first press conference since taking on the role.“The negotiating team is ready to begin the talks at any moment,” he said.However, he insisted on a fresh ceasefire during the talks.The attack in central Kabul targeted Khurshid TV’s white minibus, the interior ministry said, and caused extensive damage to its front end. It was the second such attack targeting Khurshid employees in less than a year.In August 2019, two passersby were killed when a “sticky bomb” -- a type of homemade explosive attached to vehicles with magnets -- struck a similar Khurshid TV van in an unclaimed attack.Afghanistan is one of the world’s deadliest places for journalists.IS have targeted the media before. The deadliest attack came in 2018, when the group killed nine journalists from various news organisations -- including AFP’s chief Afghanistan photographer Shah Marai -- in another Kabul blast. All on the same page’ Afghanistan’s truce ended Tuesday night but violence since then has stayed relatively low, though government security forces have suffered some attacks that authorities blamed on the Taliban.The ceasefire and general drop in violence has injected hope into Afghanistan’s peace process, which had earlier this month looked to be on the verge of collapse because of soaring Taliban violence after they signed a deal with the US in February.Peace talks were initially scheduled to begin on March 10.Momentum has also built thanks to the government’s release of hundreds of Taliban prisoners in recent weeks, as part of a swap that has also seen the militants free government security force captives.Late Saturday, Afghanistan’s National Security Council spokesman Javid Faisal said the government had freed another 710 Talban prisoners since Friday in an ongoing process that would fulfil its promise to release 2,000 insurgents in response to the Taliban ceasefire.US President Donald Trump’s administration has made it a priority to end America’s longest war and withdraw all troops by next May. US officials have pushed the Taliban and government leaders to hold peace talks.Abdullah was appointed to lead the process after he ended his bitter political feud with President Ashraf Ghani earlier this month.He had announced himself as a rival president after rejecting the result of the September election, which incumbent Ghani eventually won amid fraud claims.With the end of the dispute, the Afghan government appeared unified in terms of the peace process, a member of Abdullah’s negotiating team said.“Now we all are united, all on the same page on the question of peace,” Matin Bek, a senior government official, told AFP.Saturday’s attack illustrated the long road ahead to a secure Afghanistan even if the peace process is successful, with other militant groups such as IS continuing to operate in the country. A key tenet of the US-Taliban accord is that the insurgents will not allow groups like Al-Qaeda and IS to use Afghan soil to plan attacks against the US and its allies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-reporter-killed-as-govt-says-ready-for-taliban-dialogue/story-i8a0G1FBfusv0FHJdhAncO.html
31-05-2020||World||SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket lifts off on historic private crewed flight||A SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket carrying two veteran NASA astronauts lifted off on Saturday on an historic first private crewed flight into space.The two-stage Falcon 9 rocket with astronauts Robert Behnken and Douglas Hurley aboard blasted off smoothly in a cloud of orange flames and smoke from Launch Pad 39A at Florida’s Kennedy Space Center for the 19-hour voyage to the International Space Station.Liftoff! pic.twitter.com/DRBfdUM7JAThe first booster stage of the rocket separated cleanly and landed upright on a barge off the Atlantic coast.The second stage also separated smoothly, sending the astronauts in the Crew Dragon capsule on their way to the space station orbiting some 250 miles (450 kilometers) above the Earth.Also read| Doug Hurley and Bob Behnken: All about NASA astronauts to be launched by SpaceXThe first crewed flight from US soil since the space shuttle program ended in 2011 had originally been scheduled for Wednesday but was delayed because of weather conditions, which also remained uncertain on Saturday right up until lift-off at 3:22 pm (1922 GMT).Crew Dragon has separated from Falcon 9’s second stage and is on its way to the International Space Station with @Astro_Behnken and @AstroDoug! Autonomous docking at the @Space_Station will occur at ~10:30 a.m. EDT tomorrow, May 31 pic.twitter.com/bSZ6yZP2bDPresident Donald Trump flew to Florida aboard Air Force One to watch the launch and described it as “really something special.”“Real talent, real genius, nobody does it like us,” Trump said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/second-attempt-succeeds-spacex-s-dragon-capsule-launches-into-orbit/story-JFKgBXIl2w7UojiLH4K7uI.html
31-05-2020||World||SpaceX launch director gives green light to fuel rocket||SpaceX’s launch director gave the green light on Saturday to fuel the rocket for an historic flight to the International Space Station by two veteran NASA astronauts.“We’re go for propellant load,” launch director Mike Taylor said.The fuelling of the Falcon 9 rocket with rocket grade kerosene and liquid oxygen began 45 minutes before the scheduled 3:22 pm (1922 GMT) blastoff of the Falcon 9 rocket and its Crew Dragon capsule with astronauts Robert Behnken and Douglas Turley on board.Wednesday’s launch was postponed because of poor weather just 17 minutes before lift-off and weather conditions have been uncertain on Saturday as well.SpaceX is seeking to become the first private company to send astronauts into orbit in what would be the first crewed space flight from US soil since the space shuttle program ended in 2011.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spacex-launch-director-gives-green-light-to-fuel-rocket/story-pVEprtmpGf4t3xKpCost9I.html
31-05-2020||India||Video shows brawl at border, clip not authentic, says army||NEW DELHI An undated video and a photograph that purportedly capture violent scraps between Indian and Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh surfaced on social media on Sunday, bringing the border feud along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) into sharp focus.The army said the visuals were “not authenticated” and linking them with the border situation was “mala fide.”While the two-minute-45 second video, seen by Hindustan Times, ostensibly shows a brawl between troops of the two countries on the banks of Pangong Tso in which the Indian side is dominant, the photograph shows injured and bleeding Indian soldiers at the receiving end of Chinese aggression.The photograph, which also appears to be taken on the banks of Pangong Tso lake, shows Indian soldiers bound with ropes by the Chinese. It found its way into the social media after the video came out — a clear indication, analyst said, of wanting to own the narrative. Pangong Tso has been at the centre of a weeks-long border standoff between India and China that threatens to plunge the bilateral relationship to a new low.The Indian Army on Sunday said the contents of the video (and the photograph itself), were “not authenticated”, and any attempt to link it with the situation on the northern borders was “mala fide.”The video and photograph have come out at a time when India and China are talking to each other at military and diplomatic levels to resolve the standoff. Experts said the visuals had surfaced at a critical juncture and could potentially complicate the discussions.In a statement issued on Sunday morning, army spokesperson Colonel Aman Anand said, “It has been brought to our notice that a video is doing the rounds in social media on an incident on the borders…Currently, no violence is happening”.He said differences were being addressed through interaction between military commanders, guided by established protocols on management of borders between the two countries.The video shows furious Indian soldiers and Indo-Tibetan Border Police personnel chasing away Chinese troops who appear to have left their vehicle, a Humvee knockoff, behind. In the video, a Chinese soldier is seen lying on the ground bleeding from his head, while an Indian soldier covers him with a shield to avoid further injuries in the midst of the violent confrontation.“It is important for local commanders on both sides to ensure passions do not run out of control. Things can’t be allowed to go from bad to worse,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd).Military commanders have been talking almost daily to break the stalemate. Soldiers of the two countries are eyeball-to-eyeball at four locations along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh including Pangong Tso.Anand said the army strongly condemned attempts to sensationalise issues impacting national security. “The media is requested not to air visuals that are likely to vitiate the current situation on the borders,” he added.China has marshalled close to 5,000 soldiers and deployed tanks and artillery guns on its side of the disputed border in the Ladakh sector where India has also sent military reinforcements and matched the neighbour’s military moves, as reported by Hindustan Times on May 26.Several rounds of talks between local military commanders have failed to end the standoff that began with a confrontation between rival patrols on May 5-6 near Pangong Tso that left scores of soldiers from both sides injured. China’s state-run media has described the latest tensions as the worst since the 2017 Doklam standoff that lasted 73 days.Chinese troops are holding positions on their side of the border in north Sikkim where soldiers of the two countries were involved in a tense confrontation on May 9 that left seven Chinese and four Indian soldiers injured, as first reported by Hindustan Times.This is not the first time such a video has come out. A video had surfaced in August 2017 purportedly showing Indian and Chinese soldiers throwing stones at each other and exchanging blows near Pangong Tso.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/video-shows-brawl-at-border-clip-not-authentic-says-army/story-hInySSdHouNuElBNj3CrVM.html
31-05-2020||India||Uttarakhand CM in self-quarantine after attending meeting with Covid-19 positive minister||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Sunday went into self-quarantine as a precaution after his Cabinet colleague and state tourism minister Satpal Maharaj tested positive for coronavirus disease Covid-19. The CM, some of his ministers and top bureaucrats had attended a Cabinet meeting on Friday in which Maharaj was also present.Apart from Maharaj, his two sons, two daughters-in-law and 17 of his staff also tested positive for coronavirus infection on Sunday, a day after the minister’s wife was found positive for the virus.In a late evening development, the state health secretary Amit Singh Negi said that a decision on putting the other ministers and officials in quarantine would be taken by Dehradun district magistrate on Monday since as per the Centre’s guidelines that distinguish between high-risk and low-risk contacts of a Covid-19 positive patient, the ministers come under low-risk category. Therefore, they can continue to work normally and need not be quarantined as of now.“All the ministers come under low-risk category as they maintained distance and wore masks during the meeting despite being in the same room. The district magistrate will be taking a final decision on this and decide who will be home quarantined and who can continue working normally. As a precautionary measure, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat has already quarantined himself,” said Negi.He explained that if some one lives in the same house, travels in the same car, comes in contact with a positive person with less than one metre distance, interacts without a mask with a Covid-19 positive person, then they are considered to be high risk.In the case of high-risk contact, the person will be home quarantined for 14 days and the test will be done according to the protocol of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Low-risk contacts can do their work as before but their health status will be monitored for 14 days.Earlier, confirming the test report of Satpal Maharaj, Abhishek Sharma, officer on special duty to the tourism minister said, “Maharaj, his two sons and two daughters-in-law tested positive on Sunday along with 17 of his staff members. A total of 41 people including Maharaj and others who came in contact with his wife, were put in quarantine and tested for the virus infection as per the health norm on Saturday itself. The remaining have tested negative.”He added that the minister and his four family members had been admitted at AIIMS, Rishikesh, where his wife is already undergoing treatment. “The other infected people have been admitted to a city-based hospital in Dehradun,” Sharma said. Uttarakhand has reported 907 Covid-19 cases so far including 158 cases which came out on Sunday. Of the total cases, 102 have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cm-in-self-quarantine-after-attending-meeting-with-covid-19-positive-minister/story-APkmnSvgibGLkbo8HctRgI.html
31-05-2020||India||Amid spike in Covid-19 cases, Bengal’s testing matches up to national level||Amid a spike in Covid-19 cases, the state recorded 1,685 new cases in the past seven days, taking the tally to 5,501 coronavirus cases since March 17, Bengal’s testing parameters have improved and the state is finally catching up with the national average and some other major states.Criticised for being one of the worst-performing states in terms of testing, West Bengal tested about 2,000 samples per day in the first week of May and the testing per million population stood at only 279 on May 4. Bengal has been testing more than 9,000 samples per day over the past few days. This has finally brought Bengal close to some other major states. Tamil Nadu tested 12,807 samples on May 31, while Maharashtra said on May 24 that they were testing between 10,000 and 14,000 samples per day.Its testing per million population has also risen to 2,264, as on May 31. The national average has been around 2,500 tests per million over the past week. There has also been significant improvement in the positive confirmation rate – number of persons testing positive for 100 tests – from 4.87% on May 5 to 2.7% on May 31. This is better than the national average of 3.56%.“The testing per day will further increase and go beyond 10,000 samples per day soon. We are not stepping up the speed for a few days because of backlog in reports from laboratories,” said a senior health department official.However, being India’s fourth most-populous state, even 9,000 tests per day keeps the state behind some other states in tests per million population. For example, Maharashtra’s testing per million stood at 3,349 as of May 30, and Karnataka’s at 4,124 per million, while Delhi has been testing 9,689 samples per million. Gujarat conducted 2,790 tests per million, as on May 26.According to Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha MP Santanu Sen, who has been one of the key people in chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s Covid-19 management team, “Our policy is to test, identify, and isolate. Testing has improved significantly and will increase further.”Bengal on May 31, reported 371 new Covid-19 cases, mostly from the different districts where migrant workers recently returned. Public health expert Rezaul Karim, too, lauded the state government’s role in increasing testing. “It feels very good to see that the state has made such a significant improvement in a short time,” Karim said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-spike-in-covid-19-cases-bengal-s-testing-matches-up-to-national-level/story-15HVgpT4gdtUmvwJBgYRYP.html
31-05-2020||India||22-yr-old who ran robbery school in Delhi nabbed: Cops||New Delhi: A 22-year-old man who ran a “robbery training school” from his house in outer Delhi’s Bawana was arrested after an encounter, police said on Sunday.The police said the suspect, Manish, started the “school” in his house in the area’s JJ Colony after getting bail from prison in a snatching case earlier this year.“He has 17 known snatching cases registered against him. After his release from jail in February, he decided he would not be directly involved in robberies and would instead make money by training young snatchers and robbers, and from taking a cut on their earnings,” said Gaurav Sharma, deputy commissioner of police (outer-north).So, Manish allegedly scouted for youngsters — minors and adults — who were keen to enter the trade.“He would bring them to his house in Bawana’s JJ Colony and train them to identity targets like pedestrians and cyclists and snatch from them without getting caught. He also trained them on what neighbourhoods to choose and getaway routes strategically,” Sharma said.It remained unclear how many robberies were allegedly carried out by Manish’s trainees, but the police said they were alerted of the presence of Manish’s school by one of his trainees, Kuldeep, who was arrested on May 24 for a snatching in Bawana.“In the early hours of Friday, on the basis of a tip-off, we set up a trap in Bawana. When Manish and his two associates driving a van were signalled to stop, they rammed the police barricades and tried to get away,” Sharma said. Once intercepted, Manish allegedly fired at the police team, who fired back in response. No one was hurt in the brief exchange. The police went on to recover two guns and 20 allegedly stolen mobile phones from the gang.Another investigator not authorised to speak to the media said Manish charged between 20% and 50% as commission on the after-sale value of the robbed items.“While we caught Manish’s associates, Hazibul Sheikh and a minor, Manish ran down a drain to escape. But he hurt his foot in the process, and we caught him,” said the other investigator.Sharma said Manish would also train them on how to cover their faces and avoid having any signs on themselves and their motorcycles that could lead to them being identified.“He would also provide them motorcycles to carry out the robberies and take care of their legal needs in case anyone got caught,” the officer said.In return, his apprentices would pay him a share of their earnings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/22-yr-old-who-ran-robbery-school-in-delhi-nabbed-cops/story-PvVdSs3ZxUsJuu984g7aGI.html
31-05-2020||India||Haryana releases Unlock 1 guidelines: Interstate movement of people allowed||The Haryana government has allowed interstate and inter-district movement of people and goods starting Monday to facilitate a three-phased exit from lockdown as directed by the centre. As per the guidelines released for the first phase of unlock-1, the state transport department will issue a time table of interstate and inter-district bus routes which may be revised from time to time. The permission for interstate movement is likely to provide big relief to daily commuters from satellite towns of Gurgaon and Faridabad, who travel to Delhi for work. The guidelines state that taxis and cabs will continue to ply in accordance with the existing standard operating procedures (SOPs).Sporting activities can now be started from 5 am instead of earlier 7 am, as per the guidelines.In line with other relaxations offered by the Central notification released on Saturday, the state will allow reopening of religious places, hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services apart from shopping malls from June 8, in accordance with the SoPs that will be released by the Central ministry of health and family welfare.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19State has allowed weddings with a maximum of 50 guests and last rites with a maximum of 20 attendees. Other events necessitating large public gatherings or congregations continue to remain prohibited.District magistrates have the liberty to impose additional restrictions on the movement of individuals from 9 pm to 5 am except for essential services in their respective areas using powers under Section 144 of the CrPC.The public is advised to compulsorily wear face masks in public places, places of work and while using transport.The guidelines say that the state government will open the restricted areas in a phased manner in accordance with the provisions of the National Disaster Management Act.The lockdown will continue in the state’s containment zones till June 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-releases-unlock-1-guidelines-interstate-movement-of-people-allowed/story-LonksN91FINBO2f5SooWAJ.html
31-05-2020||India||Man sexually harasses 25-yr-old girl alone at quarantine centre, arrested||Uttarakhand police arrested a man on Sunday for allegedly sexually harassing a girl who was alone at quarantine centre in Nainital district, police said. The accused was booked under under IPC (Indian Penal Code) section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty).“ A 25-year-old girl was quarantined alone at a primary school in Gusainpur village in Haldwani area after she returned from Dehradun on May 21,” said Bhagwan Singh Mehar, in-charge of Mukhani police station in Haldwani .Mehar said girl’s mother, brother and sister-in-law were staying with her at the quarantine centre during the nigh time to protect her.“She was alone at quarantine centre on Sunday as her family members had gone home after staying with her in quarantine centre during the night,” he said.Mehar said the accused entered the quarantine centre around 11.30 am on Sunday when her family members had gone home. The accused started obscene talk with her and then harassing her sexually. The girl screamed for help due to which a teacher and village development officer posted at the centre came rushing and caught the man.“Both teacher and the VDO took the man to the police station. He has been identified as Rinku, 28, resident of Haldwani,” Meher said. The school teacher Dayal Nath Goswami lodged a complaint with the local police station after the accused was handed over to the police. Kundan Singh Vohra, gram pradhan (village head) Anandpur gram sabha, where the incident took place, said, “The girl was quarantined alone in the school as there were no other such cases in the area. So her mother, brother and sister-in-law were also staying at the school in the night to protect her. We had made separate arrangements for the family members. We had demanded police protection for the girl but it was not granted”, he saidThis is not the first time a woman has been allegedly sexually harassed in a quarantine centre. Earlier, a police constable had allegedly sexually harassed a woman at a quarantine centre in Kichha area of in US Nagar district. The constable was suspended later by the state police department||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-sexually-harasses-25-yr-old-girl-alone-at-quarantine-centre-arrested/story-1Njs79Gy3t2M6cB2SlE4OK.html
31-05-2020||India||Architect behind iconic Dilli Haat dies at 62||New Delhi: Pradeep Sachdeva, the architect of several iconic buildings and inclusive public spaces in the country, passed away on Sunday morning at the age of 62. Sachdeva is credited with conceptualising and designing Dilli Haat,which showcases ethnic food and handicrafts , near INA Market, which was later replicated at Pitampura and Janakpuri by the Delhi government, and the Garden of Five Senses, a public leisure space, at Said-ul-Azaib near Saket He has been involved in several projects related to riverfront development, public spaces and buildings across India.“Architect of Delhi’s iconic Dilli Haat & Garden of Five Senses Pradeep Sachdeva is no more. The spaces he created have become architectural landmarks for our city brought alive by his imaginative design. RIP,” tweeted deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia.According to friends of Sachdeva, he hadn’t been keeping well for the past few months and was admitted in a hospital recently for treatment.His friend and urban designer AGK Menon remembered him as an innovative focused on the “indigenous quality of design” in his work.“He tried to use the local construction techniques, indigenous designs in his work to create something extraordinary. This you will find in most of his work,” Menon said.Dilli Haat, Menon said, was one of his most important works. “It is an inclusive public space, which has been designed over a Nullah. The place is contemporary yet traditional,” said Menon.For the past few years, Sachdeva had been working on the Delhi government’s ambitious Chandni Chowk redevelopment project, work on which started in December 2018 after much delay.The project was close to him as it involved pedestrianisation of one of Delhi’s most congested markets without disturbing its heritage. Nitin Panigrahi, deputy general manager of Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation (SRDC), tweeted, “PradeepSachdeva ji shall be remembered for his passion for inclusive urbanism & architectural heritage revitalisation. Redevelopment Project of #ChandniChowk may inspire policy makers to recognise his impetus to make public streets inclusive for all #pedestrian or #cyclist alike....”He was also the main consultant for the Jama Masjid Precinct redevelopment project, work on which is yet to start.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/architect-behind-iconic-dilli-haat-dies-at-62/story-1MKTz7rllMlUSzSRt653SN.html
31-05-2020||India||Odisha warns farmers to be ready for locust attacks beginning June||With farmers in states like Rajasthan battling swarms of locusts invading their farmlands, the Odisha government on Sunday asked its farmers to get ready for a similar attack in June.“As informed by the Centre, the locust swarm will invade western Odisha districts like Bargarh and Sambalpur in June and cause extensive damage to trees and other vegetable plantations. Adequate steps will be taken to create awareness among farmers and soon a SOP will be issued. The movement of locusts will be monitored at district and block levels,” Dean of the Odisha University of Agriculture Technology, Lalit Mohan Gadnayak said.“It has been decided that a team of entomologists of the OUAT and the Central Rice Research Institute at Bidyadharpur in Cuttack will be formed. The team will issue the SOP for farmers to save their crops,” he said. Gadnayak, however, said the locusts will leave the state with the onset of rain.He said farmers residing close to Chhattisgarh, have been asked to remain alert and take immediate steps like spraying 5% Neem Seed Kernel Extract 200 litres per acre of crops and vegetation after sunset as a precautionary measure.If farmers spot locusts swarming towards their farmland, steps like beating utensils can be taken in order to stop the swarms. Since locusts stop movement and settle on vegetation after dusk, farmers can hit branches of trees and crops to remove the locusts, collect and dispose of them by setting fire to the pests at a safe place.India is currently, seeing the worst locust attack in over 7 decades as locust swarms from Pakistan now threaten to devastate crops and vegetables over thousands of hectares in states like Rajasthan, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh. Rajasthan is now the most affected state.The desert locust is a species of locust, a swarming short-horned grasshopper that devour everything in their path. As per entomologists, the current swarm of locusts contains immature locusts that could gorge on the crops before getting ready for mating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-warns-farmers-to-be-ready-for-locust-attacks-beginning-june/story-puYMDsZvSwCxqYwDbvc2SN.html
31-05-2020||India||Unlock 1: Bengal prepares for new normal with restrictions, less public transport||After two months of lockdown, people in West Bengal are all set to step outdoors on Monday amid restriction and significantly less public vehicles.Long distance trains, government buses, ferry services, taxis and auto-rickshaws will operate with limited number of passengers, while private bus operators on Sunday said they will remain off the streets as carrying fewer passengers would lead to losses. Buses cannot ply if passengers exceed seating capacity and all people on board must wear masks and gloves.Local trains and metro services, which carry the maximum number of people in Kolkata and between the state capital and the suburbs, will not run. Taxis, radio taxis and auto-rickshaws have been allowed to ply with only two passengers.ALSO READ | Unlock 1: States allow shops, markets, offices to reopen with full capacityState government offices, which now operate with 50 per cent workforce, will have 70 per cent people from June 8. Private offices, too, can operate from June 8 with managements deciding the size of manpower, said a notification the state issued on Saturday. “However, work from home should be encouraged,” it added.The lockdown has been extended till June 15 in containment zones but the state has allowed tea and jute industries, along with medium, small and micro industries and construction activities to start from Monday with 100 per cent manpower.Shopping malls will open on June 8. Amitabh Taneja, chairman, Shopping Centres Association of India (SCAI), said, “We welcome the announcement by the Union ministry of home affairs. SCAI has made a stringent set of standard operating procedure which has been submitted to the MHA as well as the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and other authorities.”ALSO READ | Lockdown 5.0: Bengal allows some relaxations; restaurants, malls can reopenHotels and restaurants have also been allowed to resume operation from June 8. Owners of restaurants that have bars are, however, in a dilemma as there is no official order to serve liquor. Also, the owners apprehend that few people will come in the evening since the curfew will be in force from 9 pm.“We welcome the decision. We are working on a standard operating procedure adhering to contactless dining and maintaining social distancing norms,” said Shiladitya Chaudhury, co-founder of Oudh 1590, Chapter 2 and Master Dimsum, three well-known restaurants of Kolkata.The Mamata Banerjee government had earlier divided the Red Zone into three sub-zones namely, A for affected zone, B for the buffer zone and C for the clean zone. The government has allowed relaxations in Zone–B and Zone-C in the red zones. Strict lockdown will be imposed in Zone–A.The state has allowed indoor and outdoor activities related to television and cinema production (except for reality shows) with no more than 35 people. People from the industry said they will not start shooting till a guideline is in place.Cinema halls and multiplexes, however, will remain closed. A prominent exhibitor, Arijit Dutta of Priya Cinema said, “We told the authorities that seats can be kept vacant between patrons to ensure social distancing. If people can travel in auto-rickshaws and buses why can’t cinema halls operate?” Mamata Banerjee has also announced that places of worship can open from June 1 but no more than 10 people can enter these places and there shall be no religious gatherings or festivals. Interestingly, some of the biggest and most visited temples such as the Kali temples at Dakshineswar and Tarapith will not open for at least 15 days, managing committees of these institutions said. The authorities at Belur Math, which Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited earlier this year, will also remain closed for at least 15 days till safety arrangements are beefed up.Mosques too are likely to see fewer people. The West Bengal Imams Association said opening places of worship is not the priority of a government. “Efforts should rather be made to open establishments that affect livelihood of people,” said Mohammad Yahiya, chairman of the association. A large section of entrepreneurs have, however, welcomed Unlock 1. Fashion designer Snehasish Bhattacharya said Darzee, his studio, will open on Monday. “We will request visitors to restrict their numbers to no more than three at any given time. They must seek appointment prior to a visit. Masks are an absolute must inside the studio,” he said.“Many hawkers who hail from other states have returned home. Some hawkers have already opened shops and some more will start business on Monday. But given the present scenario I doubt if customers will maintain health guidelines,” said Shaktiman Ghosh, general secretary, National Hawker Federation. Among the 200 long-distance trains that will start plying across the country, eight pairs will be run from Howrah and Sealdah stations. These include the Kolkata-Amritsar, Howrah-Jodhpur, Howrah-New Delhi and Sealdah-Bhubaneswar special trains. Passengers have to arrive at stations 90 minutes before departure and undergo screening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-1-bengal-prepares-for-new-normal-with-restrictions-less-public-transport/story-7C4mx1T77iGO0USIBC4zuK.html
31-05-2020||India||Sustained HCQ intake with PPE use helped prevent Covid-19 in healthcare workers: ICMR study||Sustained intake of anti-malarial drug hyrdoxychloroquine (HCQ) along with appropriate use of personal protective equipment (PPE) led to a significant decline in the odds of healthcare workers getting infected with the coronavirus infection, a study has indicated.According to the findings of a case-control study published online in the ICMR’s Indian Journal of Medical Research (IJMR) on Sunday, consumption of four or more maintenance doses was associated with a significant decline in the risk of SARS-CoV-2 infection among the study participants.“Biologically, it appears plausible that HCQ prophylaxis, before onset of infection, may inhibit the virus from gaining a foothold,” researchers said in the study.    The advantage of PPE usage was also independently indicated by the multivariate model, they said.    Healthcare workers (HCWs) are at an elevated risk of contracting COVID-19. While intense occupational exposure associated with aerosol-generating procedures underlines the necessity of using personal PPE by them, high-transmission efficiency of the causative agent [severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2)] could also lead to infections beyond such settings, the study said.Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), a repurposed antimalarial drug, was empirically recommended as prophylaxis by the National COVID-19 Task Force in India to cover such added risk.  Against this background, the current investigation was carried out to identify the factors associated with SARS-CoV-2 infection among HCWs in the country, the researchers said.   The study highlighted that health care workers (HCWs) performing endotracheal intubation had higher odds of being SARS-CoV-2 infected.“It was identified that simply initiating HCQ prophylaxis did not reduce the odds of acquiring SARS-CoV-2 infection among HCWs. However, with the intake of four or more maintenance doses of HCQ, the protective effect started emerging, and in the adjusted multivariate model, a significant reduction (>80%) in the odds of SARS-CoV-2 infection in the HCWs was identified with the intake of six or more doses of HCQ prophylaxis.  “This dose-response relationship added strength to the study outcomes,” the study stated.It is worth mentioning in this context  that the National Task Force for COVID-19 in India recommended a once-a-week maintenance dose for seven weeks (400 mg once weekly), following the loading dose (400 mg bd) for HCWs.Adherence to this recommended regimen is underlined by the findings of the study, researchers said.“However, HCQ prophylaxis should be taken in tandem with PPE use as indicated by the multivariate model,” they said.  The study stated that a recent registry-based analysis highlighted that HCQ did not offer therapeutic benefits to severe COVID-19 cases, and was associated with increased mortality.  This apparent disparity with the findings of the current investigation could be explained by the two different application contexts, it said.  “While the observational study involving registry-analysis focussed on the treatment of hospitalized COVID-19 patients, our emphasis was on the prevention of infections among HCWs. In treatment settings, severe COVID-19 patients are likely to have a very high viral load and cytokine levels, which may not be improved by HCQ therapy,” the study said.The registry-based analysis further recorded higher frequencies of ventricular arrhythmias in patients receiving HCQ. The toxicities of HCQ are likely to be infrequent in healthy groups undergoing prophylactic therapy as observed in our study participants.“Biologically, it appears plausible that HCQ prophylaxis, before onset of infection, may inhibit the virus from gaining a foothold,” the study noted.     The three most common side effects of HCQ as reported by the cases and controls were nausea (8%), headache ( 5%)  and diarrhoea (4%). While none of the controls on HCQ complained of palpitations, only one case reported the same.  Gastrointestinal symptoms such as acidity and vomiting following HCQ intake ranged from 0.6 per cent in cases to about two per cent in controls. Very few cases (0.6%) and controls (1.4%) had skin rashes after consuming the drug.HCWs tested between the first week of April 2020 and the end of first week of May 2020 formed the sample pool, from which cases and controls were drawn. Symptomatic HCWs testing positive on RT-PCR for SARS-CoV-2 were defined as cases. Controls were symptomatic HCWs who tested negative on RT-PCR for the infection under similar considerations.As many as 624 and 549 individuals could be contacted in the case and control groups, respectively. Completed interview schedules of 60.58 per cent of cases (378/624) and 67.94 per cent of controls (373/549) were available for analysis   Compared to controls, cases were slightly older (34.7 years vs. 33.5 years) and had more males (58 vs. 50 per cent).  The World Health Organization (WHO) has temporarily suspended the testing of the drug as a potential treatment for COVID-19 among infected patients in its global clinical trials following safety concerns.   On Tuesday, DG ICMR Dr Balram Bhargava had said that no major side-effects of the anti-malarial drug Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) have been found in studies in India and its use can be continued as prophylaxis for COVID-19 under strict medical supervision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sustained-hcq-intake-with-ppe-use-helped-prevent-covid-19-in-healthcare-workers-icmr-study/story-5sRNkOq0zN05JiP7UJiVsK.html
31-05-2020||India||Covid-19 enters Uttarakhand jail, 5 inmates test positive, alarm bells ring||Five prisoners have tested positive for Covid-19 in Uttarakhand’s Sitarganj jail in Udham Singh Nagar district, ringing alarm bells among the jail authorities here. This is the first case of inmates getting infected with the virus in Uttarakhand“A medical team has been sent to the jail to find out the medical history of the inmates and trace the source of the virus. It is not known at present as to how the inmates contracted the virus,” said Dr Shailaja Bhatt, chief medical officer (CMO) Udham Singh Nagar district.Sitarganj jail in Udham Singh Nagar district has 666 inmates against a capacity of around 300, said jail authorities.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesDR Mourya, superintendent Sitarganj jail said they had taken random samples of 52 inmates for coronavirus testing and sent them to the health department on May 28.“On Sunday, health department officials told us that five jail inmates have tested positive. As these five jail inmates were living in different barracks, samples of other inmates will also be sent for testing,” said Dr Mourya.He added that fourteen other prisoners, who were in touch with the ones who have tested positive, have been put under quarantine in a ward and others including the jail guards and other jail authorities who came into contact with these prisoners will be tested for the disease.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19PVK Prasad, inspector general (IG Jail) said more precautionary measures will be taken to ensure the virus doesn’t spread further inside the jail. He said it will be investigated as to how these jail inmates got infected with the virus.“We are ensuring that social distancing is maintained in the jails. We will again take stock of the situation in the light of these positive cases from Sitarganj jail”, he added.The incident has rung alarm bells among the jail authorities especially due to the overcrowding in some jails of the state. Overall, the state has around 5000 prisoners lodged in its 11 jails that have a capacity of around 3,600, said senior officials in the police department.After first Coronavirus positive case was detected in the state on March 15, the jail authorities took measures like screening every visitor, sanitization of premises and use of masks and gloves by the jail staff.According to the jail authorities, they had also banned meetings of inmates with their relatives in jails to ensure social distancing. The facility of e-meetings was started later allowing inmates to call their family members through video calling. Not just that, prisoners were also getting produced before courts through video conferencing following the directions given by Uttarakhand high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-enters-uttarakhand-jail-5-inmates-test-positive-alarm-bells-ring/story-PguM3q9xKaqj39MsYbUO4I.html
31-05-2020||India||Jammu and Kashmir evacuates 102,972 stranded residents till date||The Jammu and Kashmir government has evacuated about 102,972 residents of the Union Territory, who were stranded in other parts of the country due to Covid lockdown, through special trains and buses till date in accordance with guidelines and standard operating procedures.As per the official data, 30,383 people arrived on 38 special trains at Jammu and Udhampur railway stations while about 72,589 persons were evacuated by the government in buses till date.Of these, about 1,004 stranded residents entered the UT through Lakhanpur in the last 24 hours while 798 people reached Jammu station in a special train. So far, 18 trains have arrived in Jammu with a total of 14,743 stranded passengers while 20 trains have brought 15,640 passengers to Udhampur.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesA break up of the returnees evacuated through buses shows that most people have been brought back from Himachal Pardesh-21,897 followed by Punjab -18,144 and Delhi-6,835. 4613 were brought back from Uttar Pradesh, 4168 from Haryana, 3176 from Rajasthan, 3549 from Uttarakhand, 1386 from Gujrat, 1353 from Chandigarh, 1076 from Maharashtra, 1036 from Madhya Pradesh, 21 from Andhra Pardesh, 162 from Chattisgarh, 64 from Odisha, 267 from Assam, 88 from Dehradun, 693 from Telangana, 119 from Karnataka, 21 from Tamilnadu, 52 from Chennai, 324 from Bihar, 164 from West Bengal, 107 from Jharkhand, 3 from Nepal and 3271 from other states and UTs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-evacuates-102-972-stranded-residents-till-date/story-JvtBYGBSDeyhcbkaFX36sO.html
31-05-2020||India||India expels 2 Pak officials for involvement in spying, to leave country in 24 hrs||India on Sunday expelled two officials of the Pakistan high commission after they were apprehended by law enforcement authorities on charges of engaging in espionage, the external affairs ministry said.Officials of the special cell of Delhi Police, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said three officials of the Pakistani mission were detained at Bikanervala Chowk in Karol Bagh at 10.45 am on Sunday while allegedly trying to obtain classified materials on the Indian security establishment.The three men – identified as Abid Hussain Abid, 42, an assistant in the Pakistani mission, Mohammad Tahir Khan, 44, a clerk, and Javed Hussain, 36, a driver – had been under surveillance for the past few months, the officials said.“They were caught red-handed while obtaining documents on the Indian security establishment from an Indian national and handing over cash and an iPhone to him,” said one of the officials cited above.The three men initially claimed they were Indians and even produced fake Aadhar cards, the officials said. “Later, during interrogation, they confessed they were officials at the Pakistan high commission and worked for the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI),” a second official said. A case was registered against them under the Official Secrets Act, the officials said. The detentions were the result of an operation jointly mounted by Delhi Police and Military Intelligence, they added.Subsequently, the government ordered the expulsion of Abid and Khan, who both work for the visa section at the Pakistani mission. Abid had been posted in the mission since December 2018, while Khan was posted here in October 2015.A statement issued by the external affairs ministry, without naming the detained men, said: “Two officials of the high commission of Pakistan in New Delhi were apprehended today [Sunday] by Indian law enforcement authorities for indulging in espionage activities.”The government declared both these officials “persona non grata for indulging in activities incompatible with their status as members of a diplomatic mission and asked them to leave the country within twenty-four hours”, the statement said.Pakistan’s charge d’affaires was issued a demarche or formal diplomatic representation, in which a strong protest was lodged about the “activities of these officials of the high commission of Pakistan against India’s national security”.The charge d’affaires “was asked to ensure that no member of its diplomatic mission should indulge in activities inimical to India or behave in a manner incompatible with their diplomatic status”, the statement said.There was no response from the spokesman of the Pakistani mission despite attempts to reach him on phone.The development comes at a time when ties between India and Pakistan are at an all-time low. In October 2016, India had expelled an official of the Pakistani mission after he too was nabbed by Indian security agencies while receiving classified documents.The Pakistan Foreign Office’s statement, while condemning the Indian government’s decision to declare the two officials persona non grata, claimed the Indian action was accompanied by a “negative pre-planned and orchestrated media campaign”. It said the officials were detained by Indian authorities on “false and unsubstantiated charges” and released on the intervention of the high commission.The statement also condemned what it said was the “threatening and pressuring of the diplomatic officials to accept false charges”. It said the Indian action was a violation of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations and the norms of diplomatic conduct “especially in an already vitiated atmosphere”.Pakistan also sought to portray the incident as an attempt to divert attention from internal and external issues within India and the situation in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-pakistan-high-commission-officials-arrested-for-indulging-in-espionage/story-9Nt0CWd03jhyL7SeOn78ZN.html
31-05-2020||India||Will allow doorstep delivery of newspapers from June 7: Maharashtra CM Thackeray||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said doorstep delivery of newspapers will be allowed in the state from June 7 as his government extended the lockdown in the entire state till June 30 to stop the spread of Covid-19.“We are permitting doorstep delivery of newspapers in Maharashtra from next Sunday,” Thackeray was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Delivery of newspapers was banned in Mumbai and Pune till now amid the Covid-19 outbreak.Named ‘Mission Begin Again’, the state most-affected by coronavirus pandemic in the country, on Sunday evening issued guidelines for lockdown 5.0 beginning June 1, a day after the Centre released revised rules for the shutdown in what is being billed as ‘Unlock 1’.In his televised address to the state, the CM said the “Mission Begin Again” is aimed at restarting our lives again.Among the other relaxations announced by the MVA government, all markets, market areas and shops, except malls and market complexes, will be allowed to open from June 5 on an odd-even basis between 9am and 5 pm. In another important step, from June 8, all private offices will be allowed to function with up to 10% strength as per need, with the remaining people working from home. Intra-district bus services will also be allowed while inter-district bus services will not be permitted.The activities that will continue to be prohibited include international air travel except that permitted by the Union home ministry; social, political, sport, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions and large congregations; and continued closure of educational institutions, religious places and places of worship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-allow-doorstep-delivery-of-newspapers-from-june-7-maharashtra-cm-thackeray/story-gbY9bLuSWaTex9h0ixcBNJ.html
31-05-2020||India||Uttarakhand man dies in revenue police’s custody in Almora, kin allege murder||A 38-year-old Uttarakhand man died in revenue police’s custody in Almora on Saturday night leading to his family accusing the police of murder. They also refused to take his body, said officials.According to Manisha Markana, tehsildar of Almora, the man hailing from Palyu village in Dhaulcheena block was taken into custody on Saturday following his wife’s complaint accusing him of assault and domestic violence.“The revenue police then took the woman’s husband, Soban Singh, 38 in custody,” Markana said.The official added that Singh’s health condition deteriorated on Saturday night, following which the officials rushed him to the community health centre in Dhaulacheena area of the district, where he died during the treatment.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe family of the deceased was informed about his deteriorating health condition when the cops rushed him to the hospital. The family has refused to take Singh’s body alleging the presence of injury marks on the deceased and have demanded an inquiry into this matter. A post-mortem examination was done but its report was awaited till the filing of this copy.Singh had returned from Gujarat on May 12 after which he was home quarantined. The local tehsildar (revenue officer) further informed that the swab samples of the deceased were also taken and sent for testing as the real cause of death is not known yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-man-dies-in-revenue-police-s-custody-in-almora-kin-allege-murder/story-FHW7YfHJveHRbQbr2fUJgN.html
31-05-2020||India||Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 tally crosses 22,000-mark with record spike of 1,149 cases||Tamil Nadu reported 1,149 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, its highest single-day spike in coronavirus infections till date, taking the total count to 22,333. The earlier single-day surge was witnessed on Saturday when 938 new infections were reported. Of the new cases on Sunday, 95 were passengers who arrived in the state from outside, according to the state health department bulletin, news agency PTI reported. With 13 more deaths in the last 24 hours, the death toll in India’s second worst-affected state rose to 173. As on date, the number of active cases, including those in isolation, stood at 9,400 and 757 people were discharged on Sunday alone, taking the total number of those recovered to 12,757.Besides Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu is the only state in the country with over 20,000 coronavirus infections while its capital Chennai is among the worst-affected metros in the country. On Sunday, Chennai district recorded its highest ever increase among the state districts, reporting 804 cases, totalling 14,802 , according to PTI. With the Covid-19 cases rising rapidly, the state government on Sunday joined some other states in extending the lockdown till June 30, with a revised set of rules for relaxations. Chief Minister K Palaniswami said that the decision has been taken to prevent the spread of coronavirus. “To prevent the spread of coronavirus, the curfew is being extended till June 30 under the State Disaster Management Act and as per the Union Home Ministry’s notification,” he said in a statement.Under the revised guidelines, eight zones have been identified to allow people’s movement, allowing resumption of public transport from June 1 in all but the four worst-affected districts of Chennai, Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur.The other relaxations announced by the government barring the containment zones include permitting showrooms and jewellery shops to re-open but not malls.Similarly, temples and other places of worship as well as parks, beaches, cinema halls, gyms and educational institutions will continue to remain closed. IT companies and IT-enabled services can function with 20% employees, up to a maximum of 40 people, reports LiveMint. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-22-000-with-record-spike-of-1-149-cases/story-wFzWRlqdU4udWMwhgZA4UP.html
31-05-2020||India||Unlock 1: States allow shops, markets, offices to reopen with full capacity; religious activity from June 8||In Unlock 1, starting from June 1, religious and political activity will remain out of bounds in almost all states except West Bengal, Telangana and Karnataka, according to state government notifications issued on Sunday, which also extended the lockdown till June 30, as the Centre’s guidelines issued on Saturday had suggested.The Centre’s new guidelines provide a roadmap for lifting of the lockdown and allows states to take a call on when educational institutions, public transport and other places of social gathering such as malls and cinema halls can open and under which conditions, 70 days after the lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 22. The relaxations announced by the state governments would not be applicable in the containment areas, including in 13 cities that account for the country’s 70% of Covid-19 cases. The Centre has asked the states to strictly enforce hard lockdown in containment areas and on Sunday most states went by the Centre’s broad unlock guidelines.ALSO READ | In Maharashtra’s Mission Begin Again, shops, markets allowed to open on odd-even basisUttar Pradesh and Haryana allowed inter-state transport except from Delhi, which has a high number of Covid-19 cases. “The DMs will take a call on when to open borders with Delhi depending on local conditions,” said an Uttar Pradesh government official. Haryana home minister Anil Vij said that Delhi was the reason for spurt in Covid-19 cases in Gurugram and Sonepat, the two districts bordering the national capital. Maharashtra also continued with allowing no inter-district traffic between highly infected districts of Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur and Aurangabad.Except Maharashtra, almost all states have allowed running of offices and industrial areas, outside containment zones, with full capacity from Monday. Although the resumption of metro will take some more time, most states relaxed norms for public transport for smoother transport within and outside the states. Unlike where only up to 50% passengers were allowed, the new norms allow buses to run with all seats filled and without any passengers standing. However, private buses have not been allowed in some cities such as Patna and Jaipur. ALSO READ | Lockdown 5.0: These 13 cities will see stricter rules, more monitoringAutos, e-rickshaws and taxis can now seat up to the permitted level of passengers in most states with proper sanitization, unlike the previous norm of maximum of two passengers. Most states on Sunday said that they would later take a call on opening of schools and colleges from July 1. Officials in several state governments such as Uttar Pradesh, Uttarkhand and Madhya Pradesh are planning to set up expert committees to decide on how to open educational institutions. In Rajasthan, the government may come up with special guidelines to allow running of coaching centers, especially in Kota and Sikar, hub of coaching centers in the state. “As of now, we have asked schools to continuing teaching online,” said a Punjab government official. In Himachal Pradesh, the government has decided to extend summer vacation till June 15. Normally, schools in Himachal Pradesh have a summer vacation for a week starting from June 1. Uttarkhand plans to open government schools from June 15.With a large number of migrants having returned, Bihar, Odisha and Jharkhand governments have ordered that all quarantine centers running in government schools would be closed by June 15, as by then most of the workers, expected to come in the next few days, would have completed 14 day quarantine. This, officials said, would help the state governments to decide on reopening of schools from July as suggested by the Central government. Bihar’s additional chief secretary (Home), Amir Subhani, said close to 1.8 million workers have returned and many of them are expected to finish quarantine by June 8. “We will abide by the Centre’s guidelines,” he said. Andhra Pradesh government on Sunday appointed seven official committees to prepare blueprints with regard to phase-wise lifting of lockdown in the state. While two committees would look into reopening of shops and establishments and revival of commercial activities in the urban and rural areas, one committee each was appointed to suggest measures for industries, agriculture, rural development, public transport, works pertaining to public sector undertakings and revival of activities in public and private offices. Neighbouring Telangana issued an order extending lockdown till June 30. Kerala is expected to announce it unlock norms on Monday after review of the Covid-19 situation in the state, officials said. West Bengal government on Saturday had allowed all economic activities except malls and big shopping complexes. Bengal is the only state to allow opening of religious places from Monday with a restriction of maximum of 10 people at a particular time.Most states announced that they will take a call on opening of all religious places, metro rail, cinema hall, gymnasiums, amusement parks, pools, hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services school by June 8, as stated by the home ministry’s guidelines. Only essential activities will be allowed in the containment areas with strict curfew conditions, the state guidelines reiterated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-1-states-allow-shops-markets-offices-to-reopen-with-full-capacity-religious-activity-from-june-8/story-VLeWXvIEBJfpmTRsCbVX6M.html
31-05-2020||India||Covid-19: India now seventh worst-hit country in the world||India is now the seventh worst hit country by the Covid-19 pandemic with a tally of 1,82,143 cases including 5,164 casualties, according to the World health Organisation coronavirus tracker.On Sunday, the total number of Covid-19 cases across the world stood at 5,934,936 including 367,166 deaths, the WHO said.Despite India’s surging numbers it can take solace from the fact that it is still far behind the United States which leads the table with 1,818,983 cases. The US death toll is 101,567 but its casualties have fallen from a high of 5,475 on May 10 to 1,263 on Sunday (May 31).Brazil is in the second spot with 501,985 cases while Russia is third with 405,843 cases. UK, Spain and Italy are three other countries worse off than India.On Sunday, India recorded 8,380 positive cases of Covid-19 in the highest single day spike so far.India’s death rate has spiked on two days in May. It recorded 195 deaths on May 5 before it shot up to 265 casualties on May 30 for the highest single day death toll.India had become the 10th worst affected country on May 25 when the Covid-19 tally went past 138,000. India had then overtaken Iran which had 135,000 cases to enter the top 10 list.Maharashtra continues to be the state with the highest Covid-19 cases in India but now almost all states are reported a surge in positive cases of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-now-seventh-worst-hit-country-in-the-world/story-gZ3Nf3jvmeqOj5wVEfU44H.html
31-05-2020||India||Despite surge in numbers, Assam confident of tackling Covid-19 effectively||Despite a surge in cases in recent days taking Assam’s Covid-19 tally past 1,200 cases, the state government on Sunday expressed confidence that all measures are in place to tackle the disease effectively.Exactly two months since the first positive case was detected on March 31, the total cases reached 1,273 till Sunday evening. According to officials, as many as 1,124 cases are of people who returned to the state after May 4 when the ban on inter-state movement was lifted.“The sudden rise in cases is due to homecoming of people from other states. Of the 1,124 positive cases detected since the return of people after May 4, 333 were of people who came from Tamil Nadu, 312 from Maharashtra and 134 from Delhi,” health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told journalists on Sunday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.According to the minister 2.29 lakh people had returned to the state from other states across the country through roads, railways and air since the imposition of lockdown on March 25.“Almost all the patients detected recently are those who have been in quarantine after their return to Assam. These cases are of people who got infected either in the state from where they came back or during their return journey to Assam,” said Sarma.At present all the 33 districts in Assam have recorded Covid-19 cases. Hojai tops the list with 177 cases, followed by Golaghat with 160 and Kamrup (Metro) with 134. Majuli is at the bottom of the list with just one case.Due to ramping up of testing facilities, Assam had conducted tests of 104,083 samples in seven government-accredited laboratories in the state till Sunday. Efforts are underway to test 10,000 samples per day soon with the opening of three more laboratories.“Apart from ramping testing, we have been able to put 2.29 lakh returnees in institutional and home quarantine and now have facilities to treat nearly 5,000 Covid-19 patients. This has been possible due to coordinated efforts of all government departments,” said Sarma.The minister added that since testing capabilities have increased, the state government might decide to reduce mandatory institutional quarantine for all returnees from 7 days at present to 4 days sometime in June. Mandatory tests of all returnees will continue as before.“We will try and ensure that test results of all returnees are made available within 72 hours of their return so that they can leave institutional quarantine on the 5th day and spend the next 10 days of mandatory quarantine in their homes,” said Sarma.He added that soon highly symptomatic patients who need special care would be kept at the six medical college hospitals in the state, those considered vulnerable will be admitted at district hospitals and asymptomatic patients will be kept at the 50 Mahatma Gandhi model hospitals across Assam.“Though we are going from lockdown to unlocking, there is no cause for concern in Assam as we have not had community spread of Covid-19 yet. From now normalization will be the theme. We have to coexist with Covid-19 and bring back the economy on track,” Sarma, who also handles the finance portfolio, said.“From a stage when news about one positive patient used to worry people across the state, we have now reached a stage where we are handling nearly 170 new positive cases daily, effectively. Therefore, though there is a surge, there is no cause for panic,” he added.The state’s government’s community surveillance programme conducted in May had covered 29,771 villages and detected nearly 26,000 people with symptoms of fever. However, tests concluded that none of them were Covid-19 positive. The second round of surveillance will begin from next week.Till Sunday evening, 186 Covid-19 patients had recovered in the state and the number of fatalities stood at four.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/despite-surge-in-numbers-assam-confident-of-tackling-covid-19-effectively/story-Pp8OiN7yu7YEuiOm8kgubK.html
31-05-2020||India||Uttarakhand’s hilly areas lack containment zones despite spike in Covid-19 cases||With lockdown 5.0 being restricted to only containment zones now according to the latest guidelines issued by the Central government, hilly districts of Uttarakhand which have been reporting a significant number of Covid-19 cases in the last one-week, lack well-defined containment zones.Districts like Nainital which have the highest number of coronavirus cases with over 220 positive cases do not have a single containment zone.Savin Bansal, district magistrate of Nainital said that the district does not have any containment zone as all the Covid-19 cases from the sudden spike in the past one week includes migrant workers.“All the cases that have been reported in the past one week, which caused a sudden spike in the number of coronavirus cases from Nainital district, were migrants who mostly returned from Maharashtra, Gujarat or Delhi. All these people were immediately quarantined at institutional facilities and their samples were tested. These people did not interact with local residents giving a chance for the virus to spread in the community, which is why we have not declared any containment zones in the district,” Bansal said.The district magistrate added that all the patients testing positive in Nainital are not necessarily residents of the district and many belong to other districts like Almora, Bageshwar or Pithoragarh; “but as they have tested Covid-19 positive in Nainital, they are being counted in the district tally hence increasing the numbers.”Bansal also said that the district administration has started the process of sending Covid-19 positive cases from districts other than Nainital to their home districts for treatment at Covid Care Centres, so that there is no shortage of beds at designated Covid-19 hospitals in Nainital district.“Susheela Tiwari Hospital in Haldwani is basically meant for Tier-3 Covid-19 cases, but till now Tier-1 and Tier-2 cases which are mostly asymptomatic patients are being treated there. Now with increasing cases, we do not want to face a shortage of beds, so we have started the process of sending Covid-19 positive patients from other districts to Covid Care Centres where they can be treated till they are discharged,” added the district magistrate of Nainital.With strict lockdown being restricted to containment zones in Lockdown 5.0, officials say that the district magistrates have the power to decide upon containment zones.Uttarakhand has a total of 31 containment zones in districts like Dehradun (8), Haridwar (15), Udham Singh Nagar (4), Pauri Garhwal (2) and Tehri Garhwal (2).Officials from the state Covid-19 control room said that an area is declared as a containment zone if a lot of cases are reported from the same locality. An official from the Covid-19 control room, requesting anonymity, further said that district magistrates of the hilly districts are not willing to declare areas as containment zones as these areas are scattered. Only two hilly districts of Pauri Garhwal and Tehri have two containment zones each. Uttarakhand has so far reported almost 750 Covid-19 cases of which 102 people have successfully recovered. The infection rate in the state stands at 3.25% while the rate of recovery is 14.03%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-s-hilly-areas-lack-containment-zones-despite-spike-in-covid-19-cases/story-5r9SHbaVUU7iBUyZFeWvaK.html
31-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: Under Unlock 1, Rajasthan will not allow religious places to reopen and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Under Unlock 1, Rajasthan will not allow religious places to reopenRajasthan will not open religious places till June 30 despite the Centre’s new guidelines which allowed places of worship and religious places to reopen under Unlock 1. Read moreDhankhar seeks meeting with Press Club Kolkata to discuss move to curb press freedomIn yet another unprecedented move, Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar has sought an interaction with members of the Press Club, Kolkata, to discuss the alleged curtailing of press freedom by the Mamata Banerjee-led government in the state. Read moreDelhi records highest one-day spike of 1,295 Covid-19 cases, tally past 19kDelhi on Sunday recorded its highest single-day spike of 1,295 Covid-19 cases, taking its overall count of coronavirus infections to over 19,000. Read moreWorld No Tobacco Day 2020: 8 effective ways to ‘kick the butt’, live healthySmoking has become a part and parcel of daily life owing to the stress at work or any personal challenges, dealing with which might be a difficult task for most people. Read moreThis app claims to delete all Chinese apps on your phoneTension along the Indo-China border has been escalating in the past couple of weeks. Even as the two countries take the diplomatic route to end border brawl, they keep strengthening their military might along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. Amid the present circumstances, a Jaipur-based tech startup has launched an app that is aimed at helping users delete Chinese apps from their smartphones. Read moreRohit Sharma ‘honoured and humbled’ for Khel Ratna nominationIndia batsman Rohit Sharma, who on Saturday was nominated for the prestigious Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award, expressed his gratitude for being shortlisted for the honour by the BCCI. Read moreBihar residents offer food to people on Mizoram-bound train, Mizoram Chief Minister Zoramthanga tweets videoJust three days after tweeting a heartwarming video of passengers onboard a special Mizoram-bound train giving away their food to Assam floods victims, Mizoram Chief Minister Zoramthanga shared another clip detailing a similar situation. And now many are suggesting that it shows the true ‘spirit of India.’ Read moreCovid: UP govt planning new tax? Watch CM Yogi Adityanath’s messageUttar Pradesh Chief Minister announced details of lockdown relaxations in the state from June 1, 2020. Yogi Adityanath’s announcements were largely in line with the Central government’s guidelines issued a day earlier. He ruled out the possibility of additional taxes, claiming that his administration was focused on giving concessions to the people. He also spoke against large public gatherings in the near future, stating that Covid-19 pandemic can be defeated if the administration continues to work in a united fashion. Watch the full video for more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-under-unlock-1-rajasthan-will-not-allow-religious-places-to-reopen-and-all-the-latest-news/story-TzUyLnTQ1APINJaSrfBoVI.html
31-05-2020||India||Kerala records 61 new Covid-19 cases, to decide on lockdown extension on Monday||Kerala reported 61 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday even as Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan called a meeting on Monday to discuss relaxations for the fifth round of lockdown. Since the state is witnessing a steady increase in coronavirus cases after the return of expatriates and people stranded in other parts of the country, it is unlikely that all the restrictions will be lifted.Statistics show that the fourth phase of the lockdown which began on May 18 saw the maximum number of cases in the state. State Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran said the state can’t dilute some of the provisions and it will insist on passes for those who come from other states. But, he said a final decision will be taken on Monday after the CM’s review meeting.Many religious bodies have asked the government to allow places of worship to open saying closure of shrines has created a spiritual vacuum among believers but the government is yet to heed their requests. Similarly, many restaurants have also asked the government to allow dining in their outlets. Among 61 new Covid-19 cases, 20 are expatriates, 37 have returned from other states and four transmitted through local contacts, said the CM’s office adding Palakkad reported the maximum number of cases of 12 infected people. At least 15 people have recovered-- among 1,269 cases 670 are in various hospitals and 1,34,654 people are under observation, his office said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-records-61-new-covid-19-cases-to-decide-on-lockdown-extension-on-monday/story-5FA7OJ72fT85aKcNaCtGcI.html
31-05-2020||India||Covid 19 update-Six ASHA, Anganwadi workers and sanitary staff in Odisha test positive||Six accredited social health activists (ASHA), Anganwadi workers, sanitary staff (sweeper) and some volunteers have tested positive for the coronavirus in Odisha underscoring the risk that the frontline workers in the fight against the pandemic face.The six ASHA workers were engaged at a quarantine centre functioning in Marshaghai block of Kendrapara district that is now emerging as a Covid-19 hotspot with 89 cases. Kendrapara district collector Samarth Verma said though they were asymptomatic, their swab samples were collected due to their exposure to Covid-19 patients.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe areas where they lived have been declared as containment zones as part of government SOPs for containing the spread of the disease. “Active surveillance in these areas has been completed,” said the district collector. On Saturday afternoon, millions of Odias in and outside the state sang “Bande Utkal Janani” in praise of these frontline workers, often called “Corona warriors” after chief minister Naveen Patnaik urged people to show their love and respect for the pandemic fighters. The Anganwadi and ASHA workers are the foot soldiers in the war against Covid-19 as they collect swab samples of the suspects. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The government has already announced a compensation of Rs 50 lakh to the next of kin of these Covid-19 warriors in case they succumb to the disease.On May 27, two nurses working in a Covid-19 hospital of Balasore district had tested positive. The same day, two police homeguards in Ganjam district, too, had tested positive. A paediatrician in a government hospital of Cuttack, too, had tested positive early this week. On May 17, a sarpanch in Balasore district who looked after a quarantine centre, too, had tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-six-asha-anganwadi-workers-and-sanitary-staff-in-odisha-test-positive/story-nuD6vXGCqR2mNH2UbjCnLI.html
31-05-2020||India||New ITR forms make mandatory disclosure of cash deposits over Rs 1cr, foreign travel||The government has notified forms for filing income-tax returns (ITR) for assessment year 2020-21 for individual, professional and corporate assesses that allow taxpayers to benefits of investments in tax-saving instruments for an extended period up to June 30 granted by the government following the Covid-19 pandemic. The new ITR forms also require assesses to furnish details if their cash deposits exceed Rs 1 crore or if they have spent over Rs 2 lakh on foreign travel or their electricity bill is Rs 1 lakh or more in the fiscal, in case they are not otherwise required to file income tax returns. The income-tax (I-T) department on Sunday said in a tweet that CBDT notified ITR forms 1 to 7 for AY 2020-21, which captures income and investment details for financial year 2019-20 through an order dated May 29. CBDT notifies Income Tax Return forms 1 to 7 for AY 2020-21(FY 2019-20), vide G.S.R. 338(E) dated 29th May, 2020. pic.twitter.com/xp8m20dbp5The government has given four months additional time to the taxpayers to file returns for the financial year 2019-20 because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had extended the due date for all income-tax returns from July 31 to November 30, 2020 while announcing the first tranche of Rs 21 lakh crore Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan stimulus package on May 13. Accordingly, the time for making investment or payments for claiming deduction under Chapter-VIA-B of the I-T Act that include Section 80C (LIC, PPF, NSC etc.), 80D (Mediclaim) and 80G (Donations) for the financial year 2019-20 had also been extended to June 30, 2020.According to Saraswathi Kasturirangan, partner at consultancy firm Deloitte India, the ITR 1 form, which is also known as ‘Sahaj’ (easy), has been reissued with some changes. The form, earlier issued on January 3, 2020, had sought detailed information with respect to salary income as well as house property income such as tenant details. These details are no longer being sought in the new form, she said.“The ITR 1 also now captures information on whether the taxpayer has cash deposits exceeding Rs 1 crore, expenditure on foreign travel exceeding Rs 2 lakh or electricity expenses exceeding Rs 1 lakh since these trigger tax filing requirements even where the taxpayer does not have taxable income,” she added. ITR 1 is meant for individuals having salary, pension, family pension and interest income.Amarpal Chadha, tax partner and India mobility leader at consultancy firm EY India, said the government has taken necessary steps to “timely” notify the forms pursuant to the extension of return filing deadline to November 30.“To give relaxations due to Covid, CBDT had allowed claiming of deductions on investments made during the period April 2020 to June 2020 against income of tax year 2019-20. There were certain doubts about the modality to claim deduction for such investments. The notified forms provide for required mechanism to claim such deductions,” he said.Experts, however, await necessary changes in the online return filing portal.Naveen Wadhwa, DGM at tax consultant Taxmann said the income-tax department has notified the forms without the return filing utility. “Thus, a taxpayer, who is required to file the return, cannot do so until the return filing facility is made available on the e-filing portal,” he said.The new ITR form for corporate taxpayer provides the option for the company to opt for a low tax rate without any exemption.Ashok Shah, partner at NA Shah Associates LLP said in case of domestic companies, the new form -- ITR 6 -- asks the taxpayer whether the company would opted for concessional taxation. “Tax payers who opt for new concessional tax rate are required to pay tax at effective tax rate of 25.17% and in case of new manufacturing companies incorporated on or after 1.10.2019 and commenced the manufacture or production of an article or thing on or before 31st March, 2023 are required to pay tax at effective rate of 17.16%,” he said.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on September 20, 2019 had slashed corporate tax rates for domestic manufacturing firms from 30% to 22% and for newly incorporated companies from 25% to 15% provided they forgo all exemptions and incentives. Effectively, tax incidence on existing companies was reduced to 25.17%, inclusive of surcharge and cess and for new companies it turned out to be around 17.1%.Chartered accountant Kapil Rana said the new ITR forms show that the government is making all efforts to curb the tax leakages and also allowing law-abiding taxpayers to take benefit of the investments made during the difficult time even if they are done after the completion of the assessment year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-itr-forms-makes-mandatory-disclosure-of-cash-deposits-over-rs-1cr-foreign-travel/story-iylCNrT8ntMpKxgV4fllqJ.html
31-05-2020||India||Cop, chowkidar killed in Maoist ambush Jharkhand’s West Singhbhum district||Maoists ambushed a joint patrol of the police and the CRPF in Jharkhand’s West Singhbhum district on Sunday killing a policeman and a village chowkidar, officials said.Members of the banned left wing extremist outfit CPI (Maoist) squad led by area commander Lodhro Lohar suddenly came out from the houses at Jonua village onto the main road on which the patrol party was going to a nearby hillock following an intelligence input of Maoists gathering there, police said.“Bodyguard of additional superintendent of police (ASP) Nathu Singh Meena’s bodyguard Lakhindra Munda and a village chowkidar Sunder Mahato were shot dead when the patrol party was taken aback with Maoists ultras suddenly launching an attack from behind the thatched houses of the villagers. The forces retaliated but by then both Munda and Mahato had fallen and we had to take special care so as not to hit any innocent villagers,” Indranjit Mahatha, West Singhbhum superintendent of police (SP), said.The patrol party was led by ASP-Operation Paranab Anand Jha and Meena.Security personnel later seized five mats, Maoist caps, food items and empty bullet shells from the village, indicating that they were either at a meeting or having food before ambushing the police party.Both Lakhindra Munda, a resident of Jharjahar village, and Sunder Mahato, a resident of adjacent Oter village, were taken to Chakradharpur hospital where doctors declared them brought dead. A medical board has been set up for their post mortem.“This was the first time Maoists used villagers and fired upon us from behind the villagers. Earlier, it has been in juggles, hillocks or forested valleys. We have a very close relation with the villagers and try out best to avoid any operation inside villages. We now have to rethink our strategy. Some outsiders and villagers from other villagers were also in Jonua village. It could also be a heinous ploy to sow the seeds of mistrust between police and villagers,” said Mahatha.This was the first setback for police and CRPF in West Singhbhum after they killed three women Maoists in Gudri in West Singhbhum district on April 4 and three PLFI ultras at Manmadhubera and Kentai hillocks on May 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cop-chowkidar-killed-in-maoist-ambush-jharkhand-s-west-singhbhum-district/story-JEZBC8Huk0IAmJw1WOiTpK.html
31-05-2020||India||Dhankhar seeks meeting with Press Club Kolkata to discuss move to curb press freedom||In yet another unprecedented move, Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar has sought an interaction with members of the Press Club, Kolkata, to discuss the alleged curtailing of press freedom by the Mamata Banerjee-led government in the state.“Interacting with Press Club Executive tomorrow to consider several disturbing actions @MamataOfficial compromising freedom of media and implication of journalists in criminal cases. As watchdog, Press Club at state and national level needs to ensure independence of media,” Dhankhar wrote on Twitter on Sunday.A senior executive of the Press Club said that the governor had sought an interaction and they had agreed. “The governor seeking such an interaction is unprecedented in the history of Kolkata Press Club,” said a veteran journalist who is also an executive of the organisation.The Press Club had not raised any such issue but the governor and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders have been alleging that the Mamata Banerjee government is threatening the media.Dhankhar’s move comes in the wake of allegations that some cable-based local news channels went off-air – cable operators had put them off air – and a few district-based journalists booked for allegedly spreading fake news.The governor recently sought information from the state’s chief secretary regarding the editor of a Bengali daily being summoned to the Hare Street police station. Several other journalists were also questioned by the police regarding publication of certain news. However, the respective organisations did not raise any issue or even report those interactions in their news outlets.“Freedom of the press is inviolable. It is the spine of our democracy and promised by the Constitution,” Dhankhar wrote on Twitter on May 28.Trinamool Congress spokespersons refused to comment. “We would rather ignore him. We would have responded if the Press Club had raised an issue,” said a senior minister of the state government. BJP national secretary Rahul Sinha justified Dhankhar’s move. “The government is trying to keep journalists and media houses at gunpoint. Several journalists and editors were questioned. The press has been gagged in Bengal. The governor has made a laudable move,” Sinha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dhankhar-seeks-meeting-with-press-club-kolkata-to-discuss-move-to-curb-press-freedom/story-fkIe7frL8r21NurAHe30XJ.html
31-05-2020||India||Covid latest: AIIMS, Safdarjung accused of reporting deaths late, served show cause notice||Top Delhi hospitals including AIIMS, Safdarjung, RML were questioned by the Delhi government on Saturday for alleged delay in reporting Covid-19 deaths in the capital a day after 57 deaths, spread over 21 days since April 5 up to May 30, were reported in a bunch on Saturday. The Delhi government said that the delay in announcing virus-induced deaths amounted to a violation of government orders and the disaster management act.As per the Delhi government health bulletin issued on Sunday, four top hospitals including AIIMS, Lok Nayak, RML and Safdarjung were issued show cause notices to explain the reasons for delay in reporting Covid-19 death cases in violation of the directions issued by the health department as well as by the Delhi disaster management authority (DDMA) under the Disaster Management Act.The show cause notices have been issued after a total of 57 deaths due to coronavirus, with some even dating back to April 5, were released collectively on May 30. A detailed break-up of deaths reported on May 30 shows that only 4 casualties were recorded on the day and the remaining 53 deaths took place between April 5 and May 29.Apart from the four hospitals mentioned above, three other hospitals in the city-- Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital, Guru Teg Bahadur hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty hospital—were issued memorandums to explain the reasons for delay in reporting death cases and for the alleged violation of the directions issued by the above mentioned authorities.The other major dedicated Covid hospital, the Lok Nayak hospital-- which was recently at the centre of a row over mismatch of reported casualty figures-- has been sent an advisory asking it to be careful in the future and to follow the orders or guidelines issued by the department in “true letter and spirit” so that there is no anomaly in the deaths being reported by the government.Facing criticism over alleged under reporting of Covid-19 deaths, the Delhi government had recently issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) for hospitals and other health facilities in the city setting a template for reporting fatalities due to coronavirus.Delhi records highest single-day spike of 1,295 Covid-19 cases, tally crosses 19k-markThe notices to hospitals coincided with Delhi, on the last day of lockdown 4.0 on Sunday, recording the highest single-day spike with 1,295 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally of Covid-19 positive patients in the national capital to 19,844, a little shy of the 20,000-mark, which it is likely to cross on June 1, going by the current trend.The medical bulletin also listed 416 recoveries in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cured patients in the city-state to 8,478, which leaves nearly 10,893 active cases in the capital. The bulletin said that 13 patients detected with coronavirus had died in the last 24 hours in the city, driving the casualties figure up to 473.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Delhi has a total of 103 containment zones as on Sunday and 5,781 Covid-19 positive patients are at home isolation currently, as against 2,586 positive patients receiving medical attention in designated Covid hospitals, 624 positive patients admitted to dedicated Covid Care Centres (CCS) and another 158 patients under treatment at dedicated Covid Health Centres (CHCs). 208 of all active patients are currently under ICU care and 43 are on ventilator support, as per the bulletin.The Delhi administration also issued an order regarding additional guidelines for better management of dead bodies of Covid patients and suspected cases at the mortuaries of various hospitals under the government of Delhi.It also ordered the constitution of a five member advisory committee to examine and suggest various steps of the Homoeopathic system of medicine that could possibly be used as an immunity booster against Covid -19 infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-latest-aiims-safdarjung-accused-of-reporting-deaths-late-delhi-records-highest-single-day-spike/story-fQyugAtrSKYRFRcYuB0nbJ.html
31-05-2020||India||Lockdown exit: Surveillance cameras to speed up NH-58 work in Haridwar with eye on Mahakumbh-2021||Under pressure to complete construction work on the national highway 58 between Narsain and Haridwar before Mahakumbh in 2021, the authorities are installing internet protocol cameras for monitoring and reviewing the progress in an attempt to cut further delays in the project which was stalled for more than a month due to coronavirus triggered national lockdown.The authorities are mindful that more time is likely to be lost during the approaching monsoon season and therefore have sped up the broadening work on NH-58 stretch on a war footing to meet the revised deadline of November 2020.The high-end IP cameras will help the Haridwar district magistrate and senior National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) officials to keep an eye on the progress of the work. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19IP cameras send image data via the internet but unlike analog CCTV cameras, they don’t require any local recording device and work on just internet connection.“IP cameras will aid in vital monitoring of the work which needs to be completed before Mahakumbh-2021. Directives have been given to the national highway officials and the nodal agency to ensure the NH broadening work gets completed by November end,” said C Ravi Shankar, district magistrate Haridwar.“Currently major works like Roorkee bypass junction, Patanjali Yogpeeth flyover, Jwalapur, Bahadrabad railway bridge, Singh Dwar flyover, Pawan Dham flyover and several underpasses are in progress. Directions regarding their timebound completion have also been given to the authorities concerned. To ensure the quality of works, I have sought a third party audit report from NH officials, as no compromise on quality will be allowed,” he said.Nodal information officer, NHAI, Atul Sharma said work has been going on at a fast pace and expressed confidence that all the related work will get completed by November end.“Administration has assured us that there will be no shortage of requisite construction and raw material so that the site work doesn’t get affected or delayed,” he said.Meanwhile, onsite measures are being taken to ensure site officials and construction workers involved in the project are protected from coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-exit-surveillance-cameras-to-speed-up-nh-58-work-in-haridwar-with-eye-on-mahakumbh-2021/story-lXiB0h3QHHmXTy1IogapLI.html
31-05-2020||India||Manipur Covid-19 tally increases to 71; 11 recovers||With four more tested Covid-19 negative, a total of 11 persons have discharged from hospitals in Manipur after recovery, state health official said on Sunday.Earlier, seven persons had already recovered and discharged from the hospitals after they had tested negative.“Today four female patients were discharged from RIMS (2) and JNIMS (2) after they were found Covid-19 negative on two consecutive tests,” says Dr Khoirom Sasheekumar Mangang, Additional Director and spokesperson of the health department in a press release this afternoon.“Two of them are from Thoubal district and the remaining are from Churachandpur and Kamjong districts.”Stating that they will continue home quarantine for the next 14 days and they will remain under surveillance, the release said, “Five new positive cases (3 males & 2 females) were reported from VRDL (Virus Research & Diagnostic Laboratory) of RIMS.”Of the new five cases, three are from Ukhrul district, while the remaining two are from Noney and Imphal East districts.Informing that their conditions are stable and they will be shifted to the Covid care facility of RIMS, it said all necessary control measures like containment and contact tracing are in place.The total number of recovered cases of today is 11 while the active and confirmed Covid -9 positive cases have increased to 60 and 71 respectively, it said.Earlier, three females (aged 26,21 and 19 years) and one male (20-year) were also tested at VRDLs of JNIMS and RIMS on Saturday night and they were found Covid-19 positive.Of the three females, one is a returnee from Delhi and she belongs to Imphal East district, while the other two are returnees from Pune and belong to Kangpokpi district, according to another official release.On the other hand, the male is from Sekmai in Imphal West district and he had recently returned from Delhi.Meanwhile, the state health and family welfare minister L Jayentakumar Singh on Sunday visited some of the government quarantine centres in Imphal West and Imphal East districts and interacted with the officials working there.The minister accompanied by the health department officials also distributed the personnel protective equipments,sanitizer,N-95 masks and gloves for the health workers as supplementary protective back-ups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-covid-19-tally-increases-to-71-11-recovers/story-NQKFpCwtYZteJOkL5qrGvJ.html
31-05-2020||India||200 special trains to run from June 1; over 1.45 lakh passengers to travel on Day 1||The Railways on Sunday said it will begin operations of 200 special trains from June 1 and more than 1.45 lakh passengers will travel on the first day.It also said around 26 lakh passengers have booked for Advance Reservation Period (ARP) from June 1 to June 30.These services will be in addition to Shramik Special trains and 30 Special AC trains being run since May 12.Passengers will have to reach station at least 90 minutes before departure and only travellers with confirmed or RAC tickets will be allowed to enter railway station and board trains, the Railways said.According to MHA guidelines, all travellers will be compulsorily screened and only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to enter or board a train.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/200-special-trains-start-operations-from-june-1-over-1-45-lakh-passengers-to-travel-on-day-1/story-VEMe3kmkcHosGRtnXttlCK.html
31-05-2020||India||Telangana extends lockdown till June 30, opens up inter-state transport and travel||While extending the lockdown in Telangana till June 30, the state government on Sunday announced removal of restrictions on inter-state transport and travel.The government also decided to implement the guidelines issued by the Centre with regard to relaxations to the lockdown outside the containment zones with effect from June 8.A decision to this effect was taken by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao after holding discussions with senior officials including chief secretary Somesh Kumar and director general of police M Mahender Reddy in the afternoon.A government order (GO Ms No. 72) was issued later in the evening. According to an official release from the chief minister’s office, the state government would also extend lockdown in the state till June 30.“It was decided to implement the relaxations given to the guidelines by the Centre in all the areas except in the containment zones. The chief minister instructed the officials concerned to implement strictly the lockdown in the containment zones,” the official release said.KCR also ordered that the night curfew presently being implemented from 7 pm to 7 am, be implemented from 9 pm to 5 am daily. No shops, establishments, except hospitals and pharmacies, will be allowed to remain open after 8 pm.In respect of containment zones, provisions of lockdown order, which are currently in force will also stand extended till June 30.In his orders, the chief secretary said there would be no restrictions on inter-State movement of persons with immediate effect and no separate permission would be required for such inter-state movements.The Telangana government on May 18 had extended the lockdown in the state till May 31 with certain relaxations. However, on May 30, the Union Home Ministry issued guidelines extending lockdown in containment areas till June 30.On the other hand, the Andhra Pradesh government on Sunday appointed seven official committees to prepare blue prints with regard to phase-wise lifting of lockdown in the state.While two committees would look into reopening of shops and establishments and revival of commercial activities in the urban and rural areas, one committee each was appointed to suggest measures for lifting of lockdown in industrial sector, agriculture, allied sectors and rural development, public transport, works pertaining to public sector undertakings and revival of activities in public and private offices.These committees would comprise special chief secretaries, secretaries, commissioners and directors of the departments concerned, official sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-extends-lockdown-till-june-30-opens-up-inter-state-transport-and-travel/story-33tubemLR5Ya1XcLqZsGjI.html
31-05-2020||India||Terrorist camps, launch pads in PoK full, Army’s response to CFV swift and hard: Lt Gen Raju||All the terrorist camps and around 15 launch pads in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) “are full”, according to top army commander Lt Gen B S Raju, who anticipates an increase in infiltration attempts from across the border this summer to replenish the diminishing terrorist cadres in Jammu and Kashmir. In an interview to PTI, Lieutenant General Baggavalli Somashekar Raju asserted that the back of terrorism has been “virtually broken” and that Pakistan is unable to “digest” that Kashmiris are experiencing peace and an improved law and order situation. Lt Gen Raju took over the reins of strategically located XV Corps in Srinagar on March 1. “The back of terrorism is virtually broken. Because of the successes in eliminating terrorists operating in the hinterland, we expect cross-border infiltration to increase in the summer season to make up for the dead terrorists. I anticipate more and more attempts to replenish the depleting cadres, as the window for infiltration is also restricted to the summer season only,” Lt Gen Raju said in an e-mail interview. “All the terrorist camps and around 15 launch pads in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir are full. These terrorist cadres are desperate to infiltrate with the help of Pakistani Army.” Stating that Pakistan has consistently been aiding and abetting infiltration for more than 30 years now, the general said there have been several ceasefire violations (CFVs) by Pakistani army to support the infiltrating terrorist groups, but added such designs have been frustrated as “our befitting response to ceasefire violations has been swift, hard and punitive”. He also spoke about the Army’s counter-infiltration grid being fortified which, along with, “our effective response to ceasefire violations has left Pakistan helpless in furthering their agenda.” An NDA alumni from the 1984-batch, Lt Gen Raju, who earlier served as the Brigade commander along the Line of Control (LoC), and later led the “Victor Force”, a counter-insurgency group of the Army that looks after the militancy-hit south Kashmir region, also sent a clear message that those having any evil design “against our country” should shun such ambitions. “Anyone picking up weapon or harbouring ill intentions against the sovereignty of the nation will be dealt with more punitively,” he said, adding that the army with various stakeholders are fully prepared for any contingency and will continue to relentlessly pursue those people. To a question how the army is coping up with increased infiltration bids when the entire world is grappling with Covid-19, Lt Gen Raju said Pakistan is unable to “digest” that Kashmiris are experiencing peace and an improved law and order situation. “Even in times when the world is together in combating the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, Pakistan still indulges in furthering its inimical designs along the Line of Control. Our soldiers along the borders are well equipped and fully geared to take on any eventuality which arises.” The general said the army is fighting the coronavirus pandemic with utmost professionalism within India and in neighbouring regions, and also simultaneously defeating evil designs along the LoC and in the hinterland. On the recent killing of top militant leadership including Reyaz Naikoo and Junaid Ashraf Sherai, the self-styled commanders of banned Hizbul Mujahideen terror group, he said that for the past one year, the terrorist leadership of all terror tanzeems (terror groups) have been effectively targeted and eliminated. “There is now a definite leadership void and Pakistan’s persistence in pushing terrorists to carry out their agenda is losing hold on ground. After the loss of leadership...there is already a rift between various terror groups who are either vying for survival or gaining some prominence,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorist-camps-launch-pads-in-pok-full-army-s-response-to-cfv-swift-and-hard-lt-gen-raju/story-PSl5UpzKA2Pn8LxFQ9wf8I.html
31-05-2020||India||MP govt moves 3 top Chambal officials after complaints of inaction against sand mafia||Madhya Pradesh government has transferred three top officers from Chambal region amid complaints of inaction and patronage to the sand mafia at the ground level in the administration and police department. The transfers follow a recent crackdown on the activities of the sand mafia which had continued despite the lockdown, revealing infighting among officials. Additional director general of police of Chambal zone DP Gupta, superintendent of police, Bhind, Nagendra Singh, and collector of Bhind district Chhote Singh were transferred on Saturday night and Ravindra Kumar Mishra was appointed the commissioner of Chambal division to take over from MB Ojha, commissioner, Gwalior division, who was holding the additional charge for the Chambal division so far. The transfers follow action against sand mafia on May 27—the second in a fortnight—when deputy inspector general (DIG) of police, Morena range Rajesh Hingankar raided some illegally run mines in Bharauli and Lahar police circles in Bhind district and seized illegally-mined sand worth about Rs 60 lakh. The seizure spot was hardly 500 meters away from Bharauli police station.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The DIG police suspended officers in charge of Bharauli and Lahar police stations-Yatendra Bhadauria and Vijay Tomar along with two police constables who were posted in Sheopur district but were staying in Bhind to allegedly provide patronage to illegal sand miners. One of the above mentioned police constables, ran an office at his residence from where he monitored activities of illegal sand miners for obvious reasons, said a police official who didn’t want to be named. He said, the action against the sand mafia was taken at the instance of the state government following complaints of police patronage to the sand mafia.Earlier, Hingankar had raided illegally run sand mines at Indurkhi and Atarsuma on May 12 night in Bhind district. A machine being used in illegal mining at Indurkhi was seized along with two other machines called ‘pandubbi’ at Atarsuma.Two dumpers laden with illegally mined sand were also seized in the operation. The next day, officers in charge of Umari, Amayan and Raun police stations- Mahesh Sharma, Jitendra Tomar and Nayan Sharma - were suspended and attached with the police lines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-govt-moves-3-top-chambal-officials-after-complaints-of-inaction-against-sand-mafia/story-WSWne2T9twIGXLVYrhO4aO.html
31-05-2020||India||Jaipur police stops cremation of man who died under suspicious condition||The Jaipur Police stopped the cremation of the body of a person who died early Sunday morning after locals became suspicious that the family members took the body to the crematorium without performing any rituals and complained to the police.Additional deputy commissioner of police, (East), Manoj Choudhary said that the deceased has been identified as Ramavtar Jangid, 52, who used to live in the limits of Gandhi Nagar police station.“Jangid was a property dealer. His family members told police that around 3 am in the morning he suffered from severe chest pain and died of it. Around 9 am, the family members took the body to the crematorium located in Jyoti Nagar without carrying without performing any rituals and informed the police,” Choudhary said.Around 9.30 am, a police team reached the crematorium in Jyoti Nagar where the funeral pyre had already been lit. The policemen doused the fire and retrieved the half-burnt body. “The body has been kept in mortuary of a government hospital where the post-mortem would be done by a medical board to find out exact cause of death. Police is also investigating the other angles of the cases. The physical and technical history of the suspect is been traced,” Choudhary added.A police official related to this case said that neighbours and friends of the deceased told them that Jangid was fine till Saturday night and they had gotten together for a few drinks. Jangid’s relations with his two sons were not good, they said. “The family members told us that they tried to cremate the body quickly because they thought that carrying out formalities could entail a Covid-19 test and in case he tested positive then they would not be able to perform his last rites which they wanted to avoid,” the police official said.The police officer added that we are recording the statements of the family members, friends and also checking Jangid’s history to reach to any conclusion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaipur-police-stops-cremation-of-man-who-died-under-suspicious-condition/story-xu2wPhViBIEFb8rapV0WdL.html
31-05-2020||India||Railway officers help 70-yr-old abandoned lady, book her ticket to get back home||Leelawati Kedarnath Dubey, a 70-year-old resident of Delhi’s Mayur Vihar, walked for 13 kilometres from Mumbai’s Mahul Gaon to Bandra Terminus on Saturday after being abandoned by her son, Dinesh Kumar Dubey. Leelavati arrived in the city in the beginning of the lockdown to look after her son who was not keeping well. Her son, who is an autorickshaw driver, gained his health and started abusing and hitting her, asking her to leave the house.“I used to pay my son for the food I ate. He abused me and used to hit me. For three months he constantly asked me to leave the house and then kicked me out,” said Leelawati. After being abandoned by her son and daughter-in-law, she walked from Mahul to Bandra Terminus. Leelawati did not have any money and survived on biscuits, rice and water provided by relief workers outside the terminus.Also read: IMD warns of cyclonic storm Nisarga over Maharashtra, Gujarat coast. All you need to know “I walked all the way. I had no option and I did not know where to go. I had no money. I was very hungry and thirsty. A truck provided me with some biscuits and water,” said Leelawati.  A video of Leelawati’s ordeal went viral following which senior Western Railway officers were alerted about her sitting outside the terminus. Indian Railway Traffic Service (IRTS) officer and senior divisional railway officer Suhani Mishra of Western Railway along with her team of sub-inspector protection force of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) Jeetendra Jat approached her.Also read: Mumbai Police helps lawyer with broken prosthetic leg Leelawati was taken to the waiting room of Bandra Terminus and provided with food and shelter on Saturday night.Mishra further went ahead and booked her a confirmed AC train ticket to Delhi for Sunday evening. The train will leave from Mumbai Central railway station on Sunday evening and reach Delhi on Monday.“Her voice was depicting the humiliation she went through,” said IRTS officer Suhani Mishra.The railway officers have also assured to take her to her residence in Delhi. Leelawati was all praise for the Western Railway staff, “I was provided with hot food and given shelter to sleep. All I can do is pray for the railway staff. They have assured me that an officer will accompany me to my house and speak to my son. The railway officers are now my family,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railway-officers-help-70-year-old-abandoned-lady-book-her-ticket-to-head-back-home/story-Pc4mJiH9NIFneKsSjyLzvN.html
31-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: Andhra Pradesh registers 110 new Covid-19 cases in highest single-day spike, state count at 3,571 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Andhra Pradesh registers 110 new Covid-19 cases in highest single-day spike, state count at 3,571Andhra Pradesh on Sunday reported at least 110 new Covid-19 cases, the state’s highest single-day spike so far, taking the coronavirus count to 3,571. Two more deaths were also reported in the last 24 hours. Read moreIMD warns of cyclonic storm; likely to reach Gujarat, Maha coast by June 3India Meteorological Department (IMD) director general Mrutunjay Mohapatra on Sunday said that a low-pressure area formed near southeast Arabian Sea and Lakshadweep today and it is likely to transform into depression tomorrow and into a cyclonic storm the day after. Read moreNo money to pay salaries, Delhi has asked Rs 5,000 crore from Centre: Manish SisodiaThe Delhi government has sought an immediate assistance of Rs 5,000 crore from the Centre to pay salaries to its employees and meet its expenses as revenues have dried up during the lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Sunday. Read moreMumbai Police helps lawyer with broken prosthetic leg after a tweet. ‘Humanity still exists,’ say netizensIt all started with an SOS tweet by lawyer Carol Jagtiani who urged Mumbai Police to help her visit her prosthetist after her prosthetic leg broke. Read morePurvottanasana, Paschimottanasana and more: Practice Yoga to help reduce stress and stay fit during lockdownThe novel Coronavirus has led to shutting down of gyms and health clubs, leaving people confined to their homes. People are forced to isolate and stay indoors, thereby creating a great deal of stress and anxiety. Read moreGovt. makes changes to incentive rules in India, tries attracting Apple, others to make more iPhones in the countryIndia may see more iPhones and other handsets being manufactured in the coming months as the government has eased some rules for its PLI (Production Linked incentive) scheme, according to a report by the Economic Times. Read moreHe’s a bit like Sachin: Ian Gould on why the India batsman reminds him of TendulkarThe Sachin Tendulkar-Virat Kohli debate simply refuses to die down. After a host of former and current cricketers, the latest lot of drawing parallel between the two is that of umpires. Read moreBECIL Recruitment 2020: Apply for 464 MTS posts, 8th pass can applyBroadcast Engineering Consultants India Ltd. (BECIL) Noida has invited applications for the post of multi-tasking staff (MTS). Read moreStep inside Alia Bhatt’s cute and classy home, a house she bought with her ‘own money, own effort’Actor Alia Bhatt has the cosiest celebrity home ever. While most celebrities opt for the most luxurious options, Alia and her sister Shaheen have created the cutest home for themselves that looks lived-in, bright and full of life. Read more‘BJP does not know how to run a government’: Congress’ Kapil SibalCongress leader Kapil Sibal launched a scathing attack on the Modi government over its handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. He said that the Centre was unaware about the sheer magnitude of the migrant worker crisis and added the BJP has no clue about running a government. Watch the full video for all the details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-andhra-pradesh-registers-110-new-covid-19-cases-in-highest-single-day-spike-state-count-at-3-571-and-all-the-latest-news/story-7p7VRMT23aeILTvTnbtzsL.html
31-05-2020||India||IMD warns of cyclonic storm Nisarga over Maharashtra, Gujarat coast: All you need to know||The India Meteorological Department on Sunday warned of another cyclonic storm that is brewing in the Arabian sea near Lakshadweep and is likely to reach near Gujarat and north Maharashtra coast on June 3. The cyclonic storm called Nisarga follows super cyclonic storm Amphan that ravaged the West Bengal-Bangladesh coast this month on May 20.  Here’s all you need to know about cylone Nisarga:• India Meteorological Department (IMD) director general Mrutunjay Mohapatra on Sunday said that a low-pressure area formed near southeast Arabian Sea and Lakshadweep on Saturday. • This low-pressure area is likely to transform into depression tomorrow and into a cyclonic storm, Nisarga, the day after.• Cyclonic storm will move towards the north and reach near Gujarat and north Maharashtra coast by the evening of June 3. Maharashtra and Gujarat have been put on pre-cyclone alert.• The intensity and likely impact of Nisarga will be released by the IMD once the department obtains clearer pictures. A low-pressure area formed near southeast Arabian Sea & Lakshadweep today. We're expecting that it'll transform into depression tomorrow&into cyclonic storm day after. It'll move towards north&reach near Gujarat&north Maharashtra coast by evening of June 3: M Mohapatra, IMD Delhi pic.twitter.com/f7cgTAbhja• The cyclonic storm once formed is very likely to move nearly northwards till June 2 morning and then recurve north-northeastwards and reach near north Maharashtra and south Gujarat coasts around June 3 morning.• Under the influence of the storm, Lakshadweep, Kerala and coastal Karnataka are likely to receive rainfall today and tomorrow. Heavy and extremely heavy rainfall is also likely over south Gujarat, north Konkan, Madhya Maharashtra, Daman, Diu, Dadra & Nagar Haveli on June 3 and 4.How was ‘Nisarga’ named?After super cyclone Amphan, the next cyclonic storm in the region was supposed to be named ‘Nisarga’. The World Meteorological Organisation maintains rotating lists of names which are appropriate for each Tropical Cyclone basin. The group of 13 member countries, including Bangladesh, India, Iran, Maldives, Myanmar, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka, Thailand, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen, names cyclones in the region. ‘Nisarga’ was suggested by Bangladesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-warns-of-cyclonic-storm-nisarga-over-maharashtra-gujarat-coast-all-you-need-to-know/story-JZKjlxBPsQ0zxvhuQpY4XK.html
31-05-2020||India||Maharashtra, Gujarat on pre-cyclone alert as Nisarga likely to form over Arabian Sea||Maharashtra and Gujarat are on a pre-cyclone alert as a low pressure area over southeast and adjoining east-central Arabian Sea is likely to concentrate into a depression during the next 24 hours and likely to intensify into cyclonic storm “Nisarga” in the subsequent 24 hours, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday.The low pressure area formed on Sunday morning around 5.30 am. All environmental conditions are favourable for intensification of the low pressure area into a cyclone but IMD will release the intensity and likely impact of Nisarga (if formed) once they have clearer pictures from the models.The cyclonic storm once formed is very likely to move nearly northwards till June 2 morning and then recurve north-northeastwards and reach near north Maharashtra and south Gujarat coasts around June 3 morning.ALSO READ| IMD warns of cyclonic storm; likely to reach near Gujarat, north Maharashtra coast by June 3Under the influence of the storm, light to moderate rainfall at most places with isolated heavy to very heavy falls are very likely over Lakshadweep area, Kerala and coastal Karnataka on May 31 and June 1. Heavy and extremely heavy rainfall is likely over south Gujarat, north Konkan, Madhya Maharashtra, Daman, Diu, Dadra & Nagar Haveli on June 3 and 4.“We are expecting rapid intensification of the cyclone, once formed because sea surface temperature is high, wind shear is low and ocean heat potential is also high. We want the state governments to be alert. But we cannot give the intensity of the cyclone now because models may not be able to simulate accurately immediately. We will give details as soon as possible,” Sunita Devi, in charge of cyclones at IMD said.The sea surface temperature in parts of Arabian Sea is 31 degree C compared to a normal of 28 degree C expected during this season. “Maharashtra and Gujarat can expect very heavy rainfall with extremely heavy rainfall in some areas,” she added.Gale wind speed reaching 65-75 kmph gusting to 85 kmph over east-central Arabian Sea and along and off Karnataka- south Maharashtra coasts is likely from June 2 morning and further becoming 90-100 kmph gusting 110 kmph over east-central and northeast Arabian Sea along and off Maharashtra and Gujarat coasts from June 3 morning.Fishermen have been advised not to venture into southeast Arabian Sea, Lakshadweep area and along and off Kerala coast till June 2; east-central Arabian Sea and along and off Karnataka coast till June 3 ; east-central Arabian Sea along and off Maharashtra coast and northeast Arabian Sea along and off Gujarat coast during June 3 and 4. Fishermen out at sea are advised to return to coasts by today—May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-gujarat-on-pre-cyclone-alert-as-nisarga-likely-to-form-over-arabian-sea/story-5ZQIzNrFtUuNABRxCoyseK.html
31-05-2020||India||Covid 19 latest: Over 300% rise in Jharkhand cases since May 1, all districts invaded||Coronavirus has spread to all 24 districts of Jharkhand by Saturday, coinciding with the highest single-day spike in the state with the detection of 72 new positive cases including a migrant in a Sahibganj jail, the first for the district.The disease entered Jharkhand’s only green zone Sahibganj district after a 22-year-old migrant worker, who had returned from Punjab’s Jalandhar, tested positive Saturday late night.“The patient has been languishing at an isolation centre at Rajmahal sub-jail since May 14 and was found asymptomatic,” said Sahibganj deputy commissioner Varun Ranjan.He added, “The patient, along with his two friends, was put up in the district’s quarantine centre at Uddhwa after their return from Jalandhar on May 12. The very next day, they entered into a brawl and assaulted some police personnel guarding the quarantine centre. All the three were then arrested and sent to jail following registration of an FIR.”The deputy commissioner said that the patient was being shifted to Covid-19 prisoner ward, especially set up at the jail hospital and all measures were being taken to keep a strict vigil on this patient.Interestingly, a swab sample of the patient was taken on May 15 and the confirmatory test report came after a fortnight, a period in which many young asymptomatic Covid-19 patients recover from the disease.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19“Since the test samples were taken 15-day ago and the patient is still asymptomatic, we hope that he has recovered by this time and the report of his next sample test turns negative,” said the DC, who made an inspection of the jail premises on Sunday.He informed that all other 10 people, who were in contact with the accused patient in the isolation ward, including his two friends, have been separated and put in a different quarantine centre inside the jail.The state has seen a sharp rise in the number of cases since May 1, when Shramik special trains started ferrying stranded migrant workers. Jharkhand, then had only 113 Covid-19 cases spread over 12 out of 24 districts with Ranchi alone accounted for 83 cases.But as the month ends, the pandemic has now gripped the entire state and the number of positive cases has seen a 337% rise to reach 494 cases till Sunday morning. The state also reported 256 recoveries and five deaths.The state’s five districts--Deoghar, Jamtara, Godda, Dumka and Chatra-- have so far reported less than five Covid-19 cases and currently have no active patients.The worst affected districts due to influx of migrant workers are East Singhbhum, Hazaribag and Garhwa, which have reported 96, 69 and 59 positive cases respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-latest-over-300-rise-in-jharkhand-cases-since-may-1-all-districts-invaded/story-6wmefydBn86kdV4GCrxm7H.html
31-05-2020||India||Drums, drones and DJ! Desperate measures across India to tackle the locust challenge||As swarms of locusts threaten vast expanse of agricultural land in the country, different strategies are been tried to fight off the insects. While in Pink City, Jaipur, officials resorted to drones to get rid of the locusts, farmers in Uttar Pradesh’s Jhansi thought blasting off tunes through a DJ band could deter the insects in their resolve to destroy acres of farms. For the second time in a week, a drone was used to kill locusts in Jaipur’s Viratnagar on Saturday night and Sunday morning. The hilly area was inaccessible to tractor-mounted sprayers and a result the administration had to resort to drones to spray pesticides on locust swarms. “We got information about a 3km-by-1km swarm in three villages of Viratnagar on Saturday. We surveyed the area and found the pest present on 230 hectares but the area was difficult to access so we decided to use drone,” said BR Kadwa, deputy director of Jaipur’s agriculture department in Jaipur.The Uttar Pradesh government has put nearly 10 districts on alert in the wake of the locust attack. Jhansi is one of the most prominently affected areas in the country. Also read: PM Modi promises help to all states affected by locust attackडीजे सिर्फ़ नाच गाने के लिये ही नहीं बल्कि टिड्डी दल भगाने में भी कारगर होता है ।दिन सबके बदलते हैं !आप मुँह से आवाज़ निकाल सकते हैं या थाली भी पीट सकते हैं ।#DiscJockey #Locustswarm #locustswarms #Locusts #Locustsattack #LocustInvasion #LocustSwarmsAttack pic.twitter.com/zUcpYiJTGbDetermined to battle the crop-munching insects, farmers in Jhansi were seen playing loud music with the help of a ‘DJ vehicle’ used in marriage processions. A video was of the incident was posted by a police officer in Jhansi earlier this week.“DJ is not only effective during parties but for fighting off locusts as well. Days change everyone! You can make a noise or even beat the plate,” police officer Rahul Srivastav tweeted along with a short clip of the video. Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh suggested something similar as asked people to burst firecrackers and beat drums to prevent attacks by locust swarms.“Whenever locust swarms attack, villagers should be alert. Locust attacks can be avoided by bursting firecrackers, the smoke of burning tires or if drums are played,” the minister told farmers while visiting his constituency Katol in Maharashtra.Besides Jhansi, Rajasthan’s Dausa and Chattarpur district of Madhya Pradesh are among the major regions in the country that have seen swarms of locusts attack. Locust swarms entered western India from Pakistan affecting states like Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh. The crop munching insects can cause major damage to standing cotton crops and vegetables, posing a threat to food supply and livelihoods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drums-drones-and-dj-desperate-measures-to-tackle-the-locust-challenge/story-tVNO7xE59sPNaiJzgHzAZL.html
31-05-2020||India||In Unlock 1, Uttarakhand to resume Char Dham yatra and tourism activities||The Uttarakhand government is planning to resume tourism and start the Char Dham Yatra in a limited manner after June 8 in an effort to boost the economy, Cabinet minister and government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said on Sunday.In its latest guidelines on Saturday, the Centre allowed religious places to open after June 8 along with free inter-state travel of people in a bid to gradually open up the country after lockdown amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “We will implement the Centre’s guidelines after analysis. The Centre under its new guidelines has allowed the religious places to open after June 8, which is a commendable step as it will enable us to open our major religious places including the highly revered Char Dham, which attract many devotees across the country,” Kaushik said.“The government is planning to start the Char Dham Yatra but in a limited manner, allowing only limited people amid the pandemic. We will also gradually resume the tourism activities in the same manner as both Char Dham Yatra and tourism are basically the backbone of our economy.”The Char Dham Yatra is a religious tour circuit that draws a large number of pilgrims.The Cabinet minister said that the government had earlier suggested the Centre to allow the resumption of both aforementioned activities in the state as they are vital to boost the economy of the state which had been severely affected by the pandemic. He said, “We suggested the same before the latest guidelines were issued. And now when they have provided some more relaxations, we are hopeful to soon resume them after proper evaluation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-unlock-1-uttarakhand-to-resume-char-dham-yatra-and-tourism-activities/story-p6UxOxc64pmLTbK3jgLNQK.html
31-05-2020||India||UP extends Covid-19 lockdown till June 30 with phased relaxations outside containment zones||The Uttar Pradesh government has extended Covid-19 lockdown till June 30, while easing restrictions in a phased manner outside containment zones. The order issued by the state government on Sunday said that the guidelines for relaxations during this period will be as per the Centre’s advisory issued a day earlier billed as ‘Unlock 1’.In the first phase of relaxations, religious places, hotels, restaurants and shopping malls will reopen in the state from 8th June. In the second phase, educational institutions will be allowed to re-open in July depending on the guidelines of the central government in this regard. However, prohibition on entry of people from containment zones/hotspot areas in Delhi to Gautam Buddh Nagar and Ghaziabad will remain. Following are the highlights of the guidelines issued by UP government for phased relaxations during lockdown 5.0 that comes into force from June 1: - All government offices will operate with 100% workforce. Staggered timings will be followed- 9 am to 5 pm, 10 am to 6 pm and 11 am to 7 pm to limit the spread of coronavirus.- All markets will remain open from 9 am to 9 pm on a rotational basis. Super markets are allowed to open with conditions of social distancing and other precautionary measures. Weekly markets allowed in rural areas. - Salons and beauty parlours are allowed to remain open with conditions of social distancing and other precautionary measures. Staff working at salons/beauty parlours should wear face shields and gloves while working.- Passes not required any more for inter-state travel. - State roadways buses will be allowed to operate on the condition that no passenger is allowed to travel while travelling.- All industrial activities allowed outside containment zones with the proviso that they follow measures such as thermal scanning, sanitisation, social distancing etc. The number of Covid-19 positive cases in Uttar Pradesh have jumped to 7,445 as per the Union health ministry figures released at 8 am on Sunday. While 4,410 people have recovered from coronavirus in the state, 201 have died from the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-june-30-with-phased-relaxations/story-ysqq4aW8d1GsMceFuPvXhI.html
31-05-2020||India||Andhra Pradesh registers 110 new Covid-19 cases in highest single-day spike, state count at 3,571||Andhra Pradesh on Sunday reported at least 110 new Covid-19 cases, the state’s highest single-day spike so far, taking the coronavirus count to 3,571. Two more deaths were also reported in the last 24 hours.The death toll due to the coronavirus disease in Andhra Pradesh now stands at 62.Among the new Covid-19 cases reported in the last 24 hours, as many as 98 were those who are residents of the Telugu state while 12 patients are from other states, according to a government bulletin.ALSO READ | Over 8,000 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours for first time; India’s tally at 182,143One Covid-19 death each was reported from Krishna and Chittoor districts, the bulletin read.At least 43 people in Andhra Pradesh and eight from other states have recovered and been discharged from hospitals. So far, a total of 2,332 patients have recovered from the infection.The number of active cases in the state stands at 1,177 (845 Andhra Pradesh residents, 111 foreign returnees and 221 from other states).According to government data, a total of 3,72,748 tests have been conducted in the state till date, with a positivity rate of 0.96% and a recovery rate of 65.30 per cent.Andhra Pradesh has till date carried out 6,980 coronavirus tests per million populationIndia on Sunday recorded more than 8,000 new coronavirus cases in a single day for the first time as the country’s tally surged to 1,82,143 while the death toll stood at 5,164, according to the Union health ministry.Government data showed there were 8,380 fresh Covid-19 cases, up from Saturday’s 7,964, and 193 deaths in the last 24 hours. The number of deaths went down from 265 reported on Saturday, a day before the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown was due to end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-registers-110-new-covid-19-cases-in-highest-single-day-spike-state-count-at-3-571/story-gzwPJ1bvSESZAq6di5QnmN.html
31-05-2020||India||Tripura records 280 Covid-19 positive cases with 11 fresh cases, all returnees from Chennai||Tripura registered 11 new Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday taking the state tally to 280. All the newly detected patients had recently returned from Chennai.“810 samples have been tested for #Covid 19 in Tripura since last night, out of which, 11 people found #POSITIVE. All of them have returned from Chennai,” chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb wrote on his Twitter. The state has tested a total 26,376 samples so far and 172 out of 280 infected people have been cured of the disease so far. Deb recently said that his government is taking initiatives to test samples of all incoming persons from other states.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19“The samples of all Bangladesh and Maharashtra returnees are being tested. Besides, samples of a good number of Chennai returnees have also been tested. More equipment is coming to the state and the government is planning to conduct Covid-19 tests for all coming from other states,” the chief minister had said.He added that the quarantine procedure is maintained at every level including villages and the Corona Monitoring Committees constituting local public representatives are actively monitoring the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-records-280-covid-19-positive-cases-with-11-fresh-cases-all-returnees-from-chennai/story-RS6LCz2nFbCRES9zyZsvzO.html
31-05-2020||India||Obliged, would continue to help others, says Pathankot’s Divyang beggar mentioned by PM Modi||A Divyang beggar from Pathankot in Punjab found a special mention in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Mann ki Baat’ radio address on Sunday. PM Modi talked about the good work being done by people across the country in fight against Covid-19 and mentioned the distribution of masks by Raju Bazigar.Raju, 40, was enthused by PM Modi’s words of appreciation and said that he would continue with his endeavour to help the needy people. “I am obliged and thank PM for this,” he said.Raju, a resident of Dhaki Road, was a special child but as he started begging near SMDRSD College Pathankot in 1984, his parents kicked him out for choosing this way of life. He used a wooden slab with tiny tyres to roll on the wheels whole day to beg from the students of the college but with this money, he started doing the charity by helping poor girls in their marriages.He was handed over a tricycle by some locals as he grew up. Raju then started covering the whole city and his income grew day after day.Though Raju did not tell the exact amount he spent in the recent days to help the poor, he said the figure could be somewhere around Rs 1 lakh. The amount was spent on arranging for food and masks for those in need. “My aim in life is nothing but to help others,” he said.His work is being appreciated by others too. “Pathankot is indebted to this special person and others who are helping as per their capacity in this difficult time,” said MLA Amit Vij.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/obliged-would-continue-to-help-others-says-pathankot-s-divyang-beggar-mentioned-by-pm-modi/story-cvvjx8LVylQUGGtoyyJWhL.html
31-05-2020||India||IMD warns of cyclonic storm; likely to reach near Gujarat, north Maharashtra coast by June 3||India Meteorological Department (IMD) director general Mrutunjay Mohapatra on Sunday said that a low-pressure area formed near southeast Arabian Sea and Lakshadweep today and it is likely to transform into depression tomorrow and into a cyclonic storm the day after. Mohapatra said that the cyclonic storm will move towards the north and reach near Gujarat and north Maharashtra coast by the evening of June 3. This comes days after super cyclone Aphan ravaged parts of coastal Bengal and Odisha earlier this month. Amphan made landfall on the West Bengal-Bangladesh coast on the evening of May 20. Nearly 100 people lost their lives due to the super cyclone. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee announced a relief and reconstruction package of Rs 6,250 crore.Also read: In Amphan’s trail of destruction, Sunderbans turn red, yellowA low-pressure area formed near southeast Arabian Sea & Lakshadweep today. We're expecting that it'll transform into depression tomorrow&into cyclonic storm day after. It'll move towards north&reach near Gujarat&north Maharashtra coast by evening of June 3: M Mohapatra, IMD Delhi pic.twitter.com/f7cgTAbhja“The situation is extremely bad. Villagers don’t even have drinking water. Donate whatever you can. We will accept even one rupee from you. But please don’t donate your discarded clothes. You can even donate books, food and tarpaulin,” Banerjee said during a press conference at the state secretariat earlier this week.The centre had earlier announced a relief package of Rs 1,000 crore for Bengal after Prime Minister Narendra Modi made an aerial survey of the two worst hit districts on May 23. The state too had earlier announced a package of Rs 1,000 crore. The package announced by Banerjee on Friday was over and above these.Meanwhile, the IMD has predicted spells of rainfall in parts Western Himalayan region and Southern peninsular India in the coming days. Delhi/NCR and parts of north India, reeling from the heatwave conditions, received relief over the weekend with much-awaited rainfall. The weather department has said that the heatwave conditions have abated for now and are unlikely to recur in Delhi until June 8. The maximum temperature is likely to remain under 40 degrees Celsius in the national capital this week, the IMD stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-warns-of-formation-of-cyclonic-storm-likely-to-reach-near-gujarat-and-north-maharashtra-coast-by-june-3/story-vmF2HBwyPN0UV0IKcsTu1J.html
31-05-2020||India||Covid-19 sparks unrest in Kolkata Police, Governor Dhankhar tweets concern||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar waded into the unrest in different establishments of the Kolkata Police this month with a tweet that the incidents have exposed chinks in the “historically impeccable” force.“Men in uniform so stanching @MamataOfficial worrisome. Chinks getting exposed in historically impeccable @KolkataPolice,” the governor wrote in a tweet on Saturday.Leader of the opposition in the Bengal Assembly and veteran Congress leader Abdul Mannan who met the governor on Saturday had also raised the issue.“Leader of opposition Abdul Mannan also expressed his serious concerns over the recent incidents @KolkataPolice Training School, Garfa police station & last night unfortunate event at 4th battalion of armed police Bidhanagar,” tweeted Dhankhar. Till Saturday, at least seven personnel of the Kolkata Police had been infected by Covid-19.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.The unrest started on May 19, a day before Cyclone Amphan battered Kolkata and south Bengal districts. Around 500 personnel of the Kolkata Police Combat Force staged a demonstration at the Police Training School (PTS) alleging that they were being forced to share quarters with a colleague who had contracted the coronavirus disease. The men alleged that they were being sent to containment zones without adequate personal safety equipment.The commandos allegedly ransacked the vehicle of their deputy commissioner Col Nevendera Singh Paul when he tried to talk to them and even assaulted him. On May 20, chief minister Mamata Banerjee visited PTS and addressed the agitated men even as Kolkata was being ravaged by the cyclone. Senior Kolkata Police officials refused to speak on record on the incident. “The situation is now under control. That is more important,” said a deputy commissioner who is aware of the details.In the second incident, some constables at Garfa police station vandalized office property on May 25 after one of their colleagues died in hospital of respiratory disease. They alleged that he was suffering from Covid-19 but was not sent for treatment on time. They called off the protest after senior officials intervened. In the third incident, personnel of the fourth battalion of the Kolkata Armed Police force pelted stones and staged a demonstration inside their barrack at Salt Lake on Friday night, alleging that they were being forced to share the same rooms that had earlier been used by some infected colleagues. “This agitation, too, was tackled by senior officers,” said an officer who did not want to be identified.No Trinamool Congress leader was willing to comment on the incidents since Mamata Banerjee is also the state’s home minister.Unrest over infected people in Bengal is not limited to police barracks alone. On Saturday, there was a clash between two groups of villagers in the Uluberia area of Howrah district over allowing some migrant villagers, who recently returned from Maharashtra, to stay in the village. Police had to intervene and the migrants were shifted to a desolate building for quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-sparks-unrest-in-kolkata-police-governor-dhankhar-tweets-concern/story-sbpdsAdjoiayYtsekWzZiP.html
31-05-2020||India||Mizoram CM requests Tripura not to resettle Bru migrants in Mizo habitats||A day after Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga wrote to Tripura government to cancel the proposal for resettlement of the Bru families in the Zampui Hills and surrounding areas in North district of Tripura, the Tripura government said they are dealing with resettlement of the Bru migrants in accordance with the Centre’s instruction.“The Bru settlement was a long pending issue and finally it came to an end under the leadership of Modi ji. They will be resettled in the state very soon,” said Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb.“Anybody can write a letter but the state government will decide the place of their settlement,” he added.Zoramthanga wrote the letter to Tripura CM weeks after a North Tripura-based NGO, Mizo Convention, protested against Bru resettlement in Jampui Hills and its adjacent areas. Zoramthanga in the letter said Jampui Hills was the traditional habitat of the Mizos.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Earlier in January this year, the Centre announced a Rs 600 crore rehabilitation package for the Bru migrants who have been staying at six camps in North district of Tripura for more than two decades. Over 37,000 Bru people took refuge at six camps, three each at Kanchanpur and Panisagar sub divisions, nearly 200 kilometres from Agartala since 1997 after escaping an ethnic clash in Mizoram.Zoramthanga’s letter reminded Tripura CM that there has been ethnic tension between both the communities in the two northeastern states which had forced the Mizos to flee from four villages of Sakhan Hills. His letter added that any kind of strain between the Mizos and Brus in Tripura might have ‘ repercussions’ in Mizoram.“I would posit that re-consideration and cancellation of the proposed resettlement of displaced Brus amidst Mizo traditional settlers of Zampui hill area and arrangement of other appropriate locations is inevitable if the historic Agreement signed on 16.1.2020 is to be successfully implemented in letter and spirit,” Zoramthanga wrote.Mizoram Bru Displaced People’s Forum (MBDPF) general secretary Bruno Maha said, “The Mizoram government failed to solve our problems for the past 23 years. Now Mizoram should not interfere when our crisis is about to be resolved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-cm-requests-tripura-not-to-resettle-bru-migrants-in-mizo-habitats/story-VGBGykRDJXJNbWYtktgnsK.html
31-05-2020||India||AI makes it mandatory for crew to check pre-flight Covid-19 test results are negative||Air India has made it mandatory for its pilots and cabin crew members to check and confirm that their pre-flight Covid-19 test results are negative before they operate an aircraft, according to an official communication issued hours after the Delhi-Moscow flight incident involving a pilot on Saturday.An Air India flight from Delhi to Moscow with no passenger on-board was asked to return midway on Saturday after its ground staff realised that one of the pilots of the plane had tested positive for coronavirus but was assigned the duty following an oversight by a team checking pre-flight medical reports of the crew. “The Covid-19 test is being conducted by the airline at a substantial cost, with considerable effort. As it is a recent procedure and there is a shortage of staff in office, there is a possibility of an oversight in this matter,” said Captain R S Sandhu, Executive Director (Operations), Air India in a circular, which has been accessed by PTI. “The test is primarily designed to mitigate the risk of transmission among the crew. Every effort will be made by the personnel dealing with the testing and rostering of crew to ensure that the reports are checked before crew is being rostered for a flight,” he stated in the circular.However, it is imperative that the individual crew member also checks and reconfirms his or her test result, Sandhu said. “In case of any oversight in this matter, not only are there avoidable adverse operational issues, tarnishing the image of the airline, but also irresponsible exposure of a fellow crew member to this disease,” Sandhu mentioned.“Therefore, it is mandatory for every individual crew member to check and confirm a ‘negative’ report result, before undertaking a flight. Any laxity in this matter will be dealt with severity,” he added.About Saturday’s incident, two senior bureaucrats had said there was a “lapse” on the part of officials responsible to scrutinise the coronavirus test reports of the crew members and that aviation regulator DGCA has already begun an investigation into the case based on a preliminary report by the airline.The Airbus A320 plane departed around 7.15 am on Saturday for Moscow to bring back a group of stranded Indians under the Vande Bharat evacuation mission and it was back in Delhi by 12.30 pm following orders from the authorities, the officials said. They said the airline officials tasked to examine medical reports of the crew did not look at the pilot’s test results properly before assigning him the duty. According to standard operating procedure, pilots and other crew members of any flight are required to undergo mandatory testing for coronavirus and are assigned duties if the laboratory results are negative.The plane with registration number VT-EXR was in the airspace of Uzbekistan when it was told to return. All crew members including the Delhi-based pilot with coronavirus infection have been quarantined after they arrived in Delhi, the officials said, “In this case, the airline officials did not look at the pilot’s test results properly and deemed him fit to fly, assuming that he is Covid-19 negative, even when the test results stated otherwise,” said an official in the DGCA.In a statement, Air India had said on Saturday that it recalled the aircraft immediately when it was noticed that one of the cockpit crew had tested positive in the pre-flight Covid-19 test.“Immediately after landing all cockpit and cabin crew have been tested and all laid down medical precautions are being taken to ensure their health and safety. Another aircraft has taken off today to operate the Vande Bharat flight from Moscow to Delhi,” Air India said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-makes-it-mandatory-for-crew-to-check-pre-flight-covid-19-test-results-are-negative/story-P7JCfpoJJ4O2Elp2YhcePI.html
31-05-2020||India||Chhattisgarh govt makes forest department as nodal agency for forest rights, activists describe move as ‘illegal’||After Chhattisgarh government made the forest department the nodal agency for Community Forest Resource Rights (CFRR) - under the Scheduled Tribes and the Traditional Forest Dwellers Act 2006 - state activists alleged that the step is ‘illegal’. Activists have said that as per the Act, only the Tribal Affairs Department or any other agency authorized by the Central government could be the nodal agency.A press release issued by the Chhattisgarh government on Saturday stated that “Community members will be given community forest rights for the conservation of forests, participation of the villagers in the management and proper use of trees via forest dwellers. The entire process for its rapid implementation has been chalked out by the state government. The Forest Department has been made the nodal department for the matter of community forest resource rights.”The press release further stated that forest minister Mohammad Akbar has said that under the sections of Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers Act 2006, CFRR have been given to Gram Sabha.It is worth mentioning that as per the Section 11 of the Forest Rights Act (FRA) Act, the Ministry of the Central government dealing with Tribal Affairs or any officer or authority authorized by the Central government in this behalf shall be the nodal agency for the implementation of the provisions of this Act.Also read: States flag missing details of returning migrant workers“Most of the implementation has been done by the tribal affairs department. Forest department has been the nodal agency for only community forest resource rights (CFRR) under the Act, said Manoj Pingua, Forest Secretary, Chhattisgarh government.“Forest department can never be made the nodal agency for any rights mentioned in the Act. The tribal department could be the only nodal agency. This is illegal and not in the act. The preamble to Forest Rights Recognition Act states that this law is being enacted for the recognition of forest rights while correcting the historical injustice done to tribals and other traditional forest dwellers. The forest department has never had a supportive attitude towards this law because it feels that if the forest resource is given into the hands of the community then it will not have control,” said Alok Shuka, an activist working on forest rights in Chhattisgarh.Shukla further said that the department has created a system to determine the role of the community in forest management, under which the Community Forest Management Committee (CFMC) has been formed in the village but their control is with the Forest Department. The Department wants these committees to be delegated the rights of community forest resources.Also read: Lockdown 4.0 deadliest, saw 247 new Covid-19 cases every hour“But this intention is not lawful because the law delegates all rights to the gram sabha which are constitutional and democratic system. With this order of the government, the forest department will be more powerful, so that tribals will get the resources of the forest in the same way as they want. Hundreds of community forest resource claims have been pending in the district level committee since the year 2013, but they are not being recognized only because the forest department does not want to,” Shukla said adding that there are 12 claims pending in his area of work in Korba district, Hasdeo Aranya region, but they are not being recognized.The government in a press release on Saturday claimed that a committee for community forest resource management will be formed by the Gram Sabhas. This committee will work for the conservation of forests, wildlife and biodiversity in community forest areas. Members of Gram Sabha will be included in this committee. Gram Sabha will have the right to nominate a Joint Forest Management Committee or its members of Gram Sabha. This committee will prepare a management plan in accordance with the work plan of the Forest Department and the Wild Wildlife Management Plan. Based on this management plan, the forest department will do the work of plantation, wood, bamboo wells, forest growing work and wildlife management, etc.“Forest Department should not be the nodal agency. It is unjustifiable that the agency responsible for eviction, atrocities, dislocation and exploitation of tribals and forest-dwelling communities will be entrusted with the responsibility of giving forest rights. The very preamble of the Forest Right Act 2006 talks about ending the historical injustices meted out to Adivasi. Even the intent of the government would be noble but the outcome of this decision would be devastating as forest department cannot win the trust of tribals and the forest-dependent community as they have been notorious for snatching entitlement and rights in the name of plantation, sanctuaries and forest diversion,” said Vijendra Ajnabi who is a member of Chattisgarh Van Adhikar Manch.He further said that there is an apprehension that forest department can misuse their influence on joint forest management committee, the sponsored wing of the forest department to take control of forest management from Gram Sabha and deliver the agenda set by the forest department.“I strongly believe that tribal department should remain the nodal agency for the implementation of the Forest Rights Act as it has been several time mentioned in official communication by the Ministry of Tribal Affairs and even in the order delivered by Supreme Court in the Niyamgiri judgement case,” Ajnabi said, adding that the Chhattisgarh government should first ensure to recognise the long-pending community forest rights claim duly submitted by Gram Sabha since 2012-13 across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-govt-makes-forest-department-as-nodal-agency-for-forest-rights-activists-describe-move-as-illegal/story-DM13H76jZ8nUT90FT0ymJN.html
31-05-2020||India||Made in lockdown: Couples recast big fat Indian wedding, get back to simplicity||Their plans of tying the knot hopelessly tangled in a pandemic that shows no signs of abating, many wedding has been postponed but some couples are choosing to get married in simple, intimate ceremonies that are just about them. Recasting the idea of the big fat Indian wedding -- with guest lists running into many hundreds, sometimes up to 2,000, and lakhs of rupees spent on multiple functions and elaborate clothes – couples are going back to the basics on arguably the most important day of their lives.Retaining the essence of romance and maybe the gravitas that should go with a long-term commitment, they are saying “I do” on rooftops, homes, temples, churches, and sometimes even state borders, with only immediate family in attendance. Sans ‘band, baaja, baraat’ and other extra frills, but with masks, sanitisers and social distancing norms in place. “We didn’t have a grand procession, decorations, firecrackers, feasts and relatives, but this was indeed the most memorable experience of my life,” said a bride in Odisha’s Jagatsinghpur district who did not want to be named.“We had earlier arranged for a grand function. But the lockdown threw a spanner in the works. So we decided to donate a part of the money saved for the wedding to help the state combat the pandemic,” said Jyoti Ranjan Swain, the groom, a resident of Erasama block in the district. Apart from the parents, an inspector of the Erasama police station and the block development officer (BDO) attended the wedding. “This was no social gathering. The couple distributed sweets after the ceremony. It was a simple affair,” said the BDO Kartik Chandra Behera.   There have been many unlikely wedding venues over the years, but a checkpost on the Assam-West Bengal border is likely to be top amongst them.That’s where Om Prakash Sha from Jalpaiguri in West Bengal reportedly wed Kajol from Dhubri in Assam last week.     Given the restrictions on movement from one state to the other and mandatory quarantine, the families approached the administrations of both districts for permission.   After much discussion, officials decided the wedding would take place on the Dhubri-Jalpaiguri ‘boundary’.    The bride’s father Mahesh Sha said his family accepted the advice of the administration and the priest to go ahead with the wedding despite the odds because it was an auspicious day.  Taufiq Hussain and Abeda Begum also decided to go ahead with their wedding despite the lockdown. They got married at home in Goalpara, Assam, last month with only eight family members present.     “This is the way marriages should always be conducted… among close relatives and people who matter rather than the usual fanfare and large sums of money being spent,” said Hussain.     His words found resonance many hundred miles away in the Tamil Nadu capital Chennai where K Shakthivel got married last month on the terrace of his home.   “It resulted in a saving of at least 75 per cent of the originally planned expenditure of a few lakhs,” Shaktivel, an AC mechanic, said. Only 10 family members were present since the hall he had booked was shut in view of the lockdown. But Shaktivel was content.       And that’s how it was for Rebin Vincent Gralan and Cila Lona, too, in neighbouring Kerala. They got married on April 15 at the St. Joseph’s parish shrine in Pavaratty with only 10 family members in attendance.  “The date for the wedding was fixed earlier itself… we both convinced everyone to hold the marriage on the same date itself and it was conducted as a low-key function,” Gralan told PTI.       There is no point in waiting for the pandemic to end, agreed Alex Paul, a businessman in Ernakulam who is all set to get married on June 15.        “We got engaged almost a year ago and had elaborate plans for a major wedding. But then came coronavirus and the lockdown. Now the wedding date has been decided as it is almost sure that this pandemic scare is not going to end anytime soon,” he said. His grand wedding was downsized to a small affair at a temple in Karnataka’s Mandya district but 30-year-old Ravi Gowda is not complaining. He got married on April 20 as he had planned, and that’s all that matters.      “I had invited about 2,000-2,500 people for my wedding at a marriage hall in Bangalore’s Rajarajeshwari Nagar on April 20… We got married on the same date at our village temple in Mandya,” he said.  He said he spent about Rs 10 lakh for the arrangements in Bangalore, but hasn’t got the money back yet. Not everyone wants to get married without family and friends though. Shraddha Patel in Chhattisgarh’s Durg district, for instance, was supposed to get married on May 17 but has postponed the plans. “I don’t want a lavish wedding with hundreds of guests, but at least I want my close friends and relatives to be present there on the occasion. We are trying to figure out when to hold the wedding,” the 24-year-old teacher told PTI.        There are also those who got married with parents looking on – virtually.        Research analyst Chaitanya and IT professional Thanuj were going to get married on April 30 in Kannur in Kerala but could not because of the lockdown. They waited and finally tied the knot on May 24 in Bangalore at the bride’s uncle’s home with 12 relatives present. “The lockdown was getting extended and the virus cases were surging. There was no point in waiting as the uncertainty was continuing,” the bride’s father A K Sudhakaran told PTI.        Most of his daughter’s jewellery was in a bank locker at Kannur so a few gold ornaments were bought for the big day. Both sets of parents and other close relatives saw the event on Zoom.    A businessman in Patna also went ahead and got the eldest of his three daughters married at a temple rather than wait for the lockdown to end. “Everything was finalised. Even the engagement and ‘tilak’ functions were done before the lockdown, so I decided to get my daughter married at a temple,” the father told PTI on the condition of anonymity. Sneha Anil Mahajan, a mother in Nagpur whose daughter got married on May 8 said the family decided not to postpone the wedding because the date was an auspicious one. “Only about 45 to 50 guests attended. We had a guest list of over 1,000 people but it was not possible to invite them in such health crisis,” she said.“All the guests were given sanitisers and masks and we strictly followed social distancing norms. Each ritual was explained in detail which normally would not have been  possible. A marriage to remember for lifetime. We have no regrets,” said the mother, looking forward to a grand reception once the pandemic is behind everybody.  And sometimes, the young just overcome every obstacle on the way.  Like 19-year-old Goldie, who earlier this month walked 80 km from Kanpur to Kannauj in Uttar Pradesh to wed her fiance alone, unafraid and determined that the continuing lockdown would not interfere with their plans.When lockdown throws a hurdle on the way to matrimony, just jump it – that’s what young couple seem to be saying as the coronavirus continues its spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/made-in-lockdown-couples-recast-big-fat-indian-wedding-get-back-to-simplicity/story-twQAVpMZSFArrGqEUnMuHL.html
31-05-2020||India||Fourth phase of lockdown accounts for nearly half of total Covid cases in India||The fourth phase of the coronavirus-triggered lockdown, which began on May 18, saw 85,974 COVID-19 cases till 8 am on Sunday, which is nearly half of the total cases reported in the country so far. Lockdown 4.0, which will end on May 31 midnight, has accounted for 47.20 per cent of the total coronavirus infection cases, number crunching from the Union Health Ministry data reveals.The lockdown, which was first clamped on March 25 and spanned for 21 days, had registered 10,877 cases, while the second phase of the curbs that began on April 15 and stretched for 19 days till May 3, saw 31,094 cases.The third phase of the lockdown that was in effect for 14 days ending on May 17, recorded 53,636 cases till 8 am of May 18.The country had registered 512 coronavirus infection cases till March 24.India is the ninth worst-hit nation by the COVID-19 pandemic as of now.         The first case of COVID-19 in India was reported on January 30 from Kerala after a medical student of Wuhan university, who had returned to India, tested  positive for the virus.India registered its highest single-day spike of COVID-19 cases on Sunday, with 8,380 new infections reported in the last 24 hours, taking the country’s tally to 1,82,143, while the death toll rose to 5,164, according to the Union Health Ministry.The number of active COVID-19 cases stood to 89,995, while 86,983 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, it said.“Thus, around 47.75 per cent patients have recovered so far,” a senior Health Ministry official said.  With the fourth phase of lockdown ending on Sunday, the Home Ministry on Saturday said ‘Unlock-1’ will be initiated in the country from June 8 under which the nationwide lockdown will be relaxed to a great extent, including opening of shopping malls, restaurants and religious places, even as strict restrictions will remain in place till June 30 in the country’s worst-hit areas.While announcing the extension of the lockdown in containment zones across the country, the Home Ministry said temples, mosques, churches and other religious places and shopping malls will be allowed to open in a phased manner from June 8, while a decision on opening of schools and colleges will be taken in July in consultation with states. PTI PLB DV DV||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fourth-phase-of-lockdown-accounts-for-nearly-half-of-total-covid-cases-in-india/story-BArq6GErIjSLtLp4qy2QGO.html
31-05-2020||India||Gujarat government eases curbs on shops, travel, banks starting Monday||The Gujarat government has announced relaxations in lockdown with effect from Monday and decided to allow shops and businesses located outside the COVID-19 containment zones to operate without any restriction of the odd-even formula.It also announced major relaxations in terms of mobility, with the state transport buses allowed to operate with 60 per cent passenger capacity, two-wheelers allowed to have a pillion rider, and four-wheelers with six or more seats to have three passengers along with the driver.Banks in both containment and non-containment zones will be allowed to open and government offices have been allowed to operate with full capacity.A government resolution (GR) to this effect was issued late Saturday night.Restrictions remain on single-screen cinema halls, multiplexes, educational institutes, large public gathering, cultural events, swimming pools, zoos, public gardens, tourist places and beaches, it said.According to the GR, the shops and business in non- containment zones will be allowed to remain open from 8 am to 7 pm.“The government will allow all shops, except those located in containment zones and placed under negative list, to open between 8 am to 7 pm in municipal areas and till 8 pm in areas outside the municipal limits. The odd-even formula for shops located in shopping complexes and markets will be done away with in the fifth phase of the lockdown or “Unlock- 1” starting Monday,” the GR said. During the previous fourth phase of the lockdown, the state government had allowed shops located in shopping complexes and market areas to resume as per the odd-even formula based on their numbers, which has been done away with in the fifth phase, the GR said.Under the odd-even formula, shops with numbers as 1, 3, 5, 7 etc were allowed to remain operational on one day and shops with numbers as 2, 4, 6, etc on the other day.According to the GR, shops located in malls and restaurants will be allowed from June 8 in accordance with the standard operating procedures (SOPs).“The state transport buses will be allowed to operate with 60 per cent passenger capacity, two-wheeler allowed to have a pillion rider, and four-wheeler with six or more seats to have three passengers and the driver. Auto rickshaw will also be allowed to operate with one passenger,” it said.City buses have been allowed to operate in non- containment zones with passenger limit of 50 per cent in Ahmedabad and Surat, and 60 per cent in other cities, it said.According to the order, the state government will also come up with a list of micro-containment areas, which will continue to remain under restrictions along with the containment zones, with only essential services allowed there between 7 am and 7 pm, and nobody living in these areas will be allowed to leave for work.“The government will announce micro-containment areas for all districts. The list of micro-containment zones will be dynamic in nature and will be updated periodically. Workers/ employees/shop owners, whose homes are in containment/micro- containment zones will not be allowed to leave containment/ non-containment zones,” it said.Street vendors will be allowed to operate only in areas designated by the urban local bodies starting June 8, in accordance with the SOP, it said.All economic activities will be allowed in Ahmedabad’s areas outside containment/micro containment zones, with industries allowed to operate with 100 per cent capacity with social distancing, it said.Liquor shops have been allowed to open for permit holders, while restaurants, gyms, malls, religious places, hotels and clubs will be allowed to operate from June 8 as per their SOP with limitations in seating arrangements and gatherings.Tea and coffee shops have also been allowed to open, it said adding that sports complexes and stadia will also be allowed to open, but no large gathering will be allowed, it said.Curfew will be followed across the state between 9 am and 5 pm, the state government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-government-eases-curbs-on-shops-travel-banks-starting-monday/story-RS6rqnuTKVFESdLHkKwYyN.html
31-05-2020||India||‘Looks delicious’: PM Modi responds to Australian counterpart’s ‘ScoMosa’ offer||Prime Minister Narendra Modi responded to his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison’s offer of sharing the ‘ScoMosas’ on Sunday, saying they look delicious.“Connected by the Indian Ocean, united by the Indian Samosa! Looks delicious, PM @ScottMorrisonMP! Once we achieve a decisive victory against COVID-19, we will enjoy the Samosas together. Looking forward to our video meet on the 4th,” PM Modi tweeted. Connected by the Indian Ocean, united by the Indian Samosa!Looks delicious, PM @ScottMorrisonMP! Once we achieve a decisive victory against COVID-19, we will enjoy the Samosas together. Looking forward to our video meet on the 4th. https://t.co/vbRLbVQuL1Morrison utilised the lockdown period to make an Indian snack - the popular samosa - and said he wants to share it with PM Modi.He shared the images of the snack, and mango chutney along with it, on his Twitter feed on Sunday and named it ScoMosas.“Sunday ScoMosas with mango chutney, all made from scratch - including the chutney! A pity my meeting with @narendramodi this week is by videolink. They’re vegetarian, I would have liked to share them with him,” Morrison posted on Twitter and tagged PM Modi.In a reply to Morrison’s tweet, BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi said: “Proposing your name for Michelin Star.”The two Prime Ministers are scheduled to hold a virtual meeting on June 4 that is expected to see an intensification of ties in the economic and strategic spheres.This will be Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s first bilateral summit to take place virtually given the embargos on travel due to the covid-19 pandemic.Australian prime minister Scott Morrison who was to come to India in January for the summit had to put off his visit due to the devastating wildfires ravaging large parts of his country. The visit was being planned for May but now the summit is to happen on 4 June, Indian foreign ministry spokesman Anurag Srivastava said on Thursday.The two countries are expected to sign an agreement for reciprocal access to military logistics facilities and other pacts aimed at developing alternative supply chains during the summit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/looks-delicious-pm-modi-responds-to-australian-counterpart-s-scomosa-offer/story-rbWGOajHDz8woMkatvNv5L.html
31-05-2020||India||No money to pay salaries, Delhi has asked Rs 5,000 crore from Centre: Manish Sisodia||The Delhi government has sought an immediate assistance of Rs 5,000 crore from the Centre to pay salaries to its employees and meet its expenses as revenues have dried up during the lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Sunday.Manish Sisodia, who also holds the finance portfolio, said he has written to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman for help and added that the Delhi government has not received the fund sanctioned to states under the Disaster Relief Fund.“We reviewed the Delhi government’s revenue and its minimum expenses. We need around Rs 3,500 crore every month just to pay salaries and bear office expenses. In last two months, GST collection was Rs 500 crore each and combining that with other sources, the government has Rs 1,735 crore,” Sisodia said during a press conference. Watch | ‘Have sought 5000 cr from Centre to pay salaries’: Delhi Dy CM Manish Sisodia“We need Rs 7,000 crore for two months. The immediate issue before the Delhi government is how to pay salaries to its employees,” he added.The Aam Aadmi Party said he has asked for assistance from the Centre so that the Delhi government can pay salaries to its employees and everyone who is fighting the coronavirus pandemic.“Due to the corona and lockdown, the tax collection of the Delhi government is running low at about 85%. Delhi has not received any funds from the Disaster Relief Fund released by the Centre to the remaining states,” he also tweeted.Delhi, which is the third worst-hit area in India, has reported 18,549 infections, including 416 deaths, so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-money-to-pay-salaries-delhi-has-asked-rs-5-000-crore-from-centre-manish-sisodia/story-i8uIlCLwxJHDGk8qPsYV8O.html
31-05-2020||India||Assam sees biggest single day surge in Covid-19 cases at 159, tally breaches 1200-mark||Two months after detection of the first case in the state, Assam recorded 159 new Covid-19 positive cases on Saturday, taking total tally to 1,273. With this rise in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, Assam’s tally has breached 1,200-mark.In the fresh addition, 20 of the new cases were traced to people who had recently travelled to the state by flights.Even as cases have surged in the state despite lockdown, health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said the state is fighting a spirited battle against the coronavirus disease.“Last 90 days we fought a spirited battle against Covid-19. Seen many setting up shining examples of public service,” health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted late on Saturday night.The state’s graph of recording Covid-19 cases reveals a rise, gradual for a month but sharp after a month.Assam had witnessed its first positive case on March 31 when a 52-year-old cancer patient was infected with coronavirus. It took over a month, 37 days to be exact, for the figure to reach the 50-mark in the state but the tally crossed the 100 mark in the next 10 days on May 17. The figure doubled again to reach 200 cases four days later on May 21 and it crossed 400 cases in another 4 days on May 25. It took just three days for that to double to 800 on May 28 and two days more to cross 1200 on May 30.On Saturday, the minister is expected to inform how Assam has ramped up facilities to conduct tests of over 1 lakh samples and taking care of over 1000 active at a time when nearly 2.5 lakh people have returned back to the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-sees-biggest-single-day-surge-in-covid-19-cases-at-159-tally-breaches-1200-mark/story-VhrX16OB2N57p8DHgbGbEO.html
31-05-2020||India||Mindless forwarding of WhatsApp texts leading to fake news menace, says Justice Kaul||Mindless and incessant forwarding of WhatsApp messages without verifying the correctness of such messages is leading to spread of fake news and many a time such messages assume racial and religious overtones, Supreme Court judge Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said on Sunday.The top court judge also made a case for individual discretion and responsibility with respect to verifying and sharing fake news as regulation of social media could result in restricting free speech. “Regulating social media  to counter such fake news could amount to violation of free speech and it is up to people to verify the correctness of the content of the message before spreading the same,” Justice Kaul said. “Any regulation of social media may impinge on free speech and right to privacy. The struggle is to regulate social media without affecting free speech, so it is everybody’s responsibility to see that content is verified before it is sent,” he said.Justice Kaul was speaking on the topic ‘Fake News and Misinformation’ at an online lecture series organised by Madras Bar Association.“There are a lot of messages about Covid (coronavirus disease) including its ‘remedies’, the origin, people who are ‘helping spread of the virus’ and so on. These messages can take religious and racial undertones,” the SC judge warned.Such information, Justice Kaul said, is many times the basis for petitions before the Supreme Court.“Sometimes this misinformation leads people to believe in it so much so that there may be an Article 32 petition (petition filed directly in Supreme Court against violation of fundamental rights) to direct enforcement of a certain remedy for Covid,” Justice Kaul said. Distinguishing between responsibility shown by the press and social media in the times of fake news, Justice Kaul said that while the press can be held accountable for such incorrect news, the same may not be possible with social media.“When the press is writing, they are accountable. Writing news is their bread and butter, and they write with a certain sense of responsibility. But others may not have anything at stake and no accountability, no system of checks and balances,” he said. Justice Kaul also pointed out that people are becoming increasingly intolerant of opinions that do not correspond with theirs and that differing opinions have to be respected in a democratic society. “So people who hold opposing views may be called by each other as a ‘Modi Bhakt’ or an ‘Urban Naxal’ or other labels,” he said, adding that bedrock of any democracy is freedom of speech and it is important to respect others opinions in a democratic polity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mindless-forwarding-of-whatsapp-texts-leading-to-fake-news-menace-says-sc-judge-justice-sanjay-kishan-kaul/story-3UGy2Z14ynZnbT0wy1QE3I.html
31-05-2020||India||Army says contents of video showing India-China brawl ‘not authenticated’||The Indian Army on Sunday said that the contents of a violent video, purportedly showing a clash between Indian and Chinese soldiers in eastern Ladakh, are “not authenticated”, and any attempt to link it with the situation on the northern borders is “malafide.” The video, which is slightly over two and a half minutes long, was seen by Hindustan Times and ostensibly shows a brawl between troops of the two countries on the banks of Pangong Tso, which has been at the centre of a weeks-long border standoff between India and China.In a statement issued on Sunday morning, army spokesperson Colonel Aman Anand said, “It has been brought to our notice that a video is doing the rounds in social media on an incident on the borders… Currently, no violence is happening. Differences are being addressed through interaction between military commanders, guided by established protocols on management of borders between the two countries.”Also read: As India moves into Covid-19’s Unlock 1.0, a word of caution from PM ModiSoldiers of the two countries are eyeball-to-eyeball at four locations along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. Anand said the army strongly condemns attempts to sensationalise issues impacting national security. “The media is requested not to air visuals that are likely to vitiate the current situation on the borders,” he added. The video shows a clash between Chinese troopers, who arrived in a Humvee-type of a vehicle, and an Indian patrol consisting of army men and Indo-Tibetan Police Force personnel. China has marshalled close to 5,000 soldiers and deployed tanks and artillery guns on its side of the disputed border in the Ladakh sector where India has also sent military reinforcements and matched the neighbour’s military moves, as reported by Hindustan Times on May 26.Also read: PM Modi promises help to all states affected by locust attackSeveral rounds of talks between local military commanders have failed to end the standoff that began with a violent confrontation between rival patrols on May 5-6 near Pangong Tso that left scores of soldiers from both sides injured. China’s state-run media has described the latest tensions as the worst since the 2017 Doklam standoff that lasted 73 days.India and China are talking to each other at military and diplomatic levels to resolve the weeks-long Ladakh standoff, defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Saturday assuring the country that the government will not allow India’s dignity to be hurt under any circumstances.Chinese troops are also holding positions on their side of the border in North Sikkim where soldiers of the two countries were involved in a brawl on May 9 that left seven Chinese and four Indian soldiers injured, as first reported by Hindustan Times.This is not the first time when such a video has surfaced. A video had surfaced in August 2017 purportedly showing Indian and Chinese soldiers throwing stones at each other and exchanging blows near Pangong Lake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-says-contents-of-video-showing-india-china-brawl-not-authenticated/story-TYPb9UkLnPPGrcRXn1ViBL.html
31-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Odisha reports highest single-day surge in Covid-19 cases and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Odisha reports highest single-day surge in Covid-19 cases with 129 new infectionsOdisha on Sunday reported 129 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), in the biggest spike in a single day so far, pushing the number of infected people near 2,000, officials of the health and family welfare department said. Read morePM Modi promises help to all states affected by locust attackPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that help will be extended to all those affected by locust attack. he made the announcement on his monthly radio address ‘Mann ki Baat’. Read moreIndia’s first national Artificial Intelligence Portal launched by IT minister Ravi Shankar PrasadOn the occasion of the first anniversary of the second tenure of Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government, Union Minister for Electronics and IT, Law and Justice and Communications Ravi Shankar Prasad on Saturday launched India’s national Artificial Intelligence Portal called www.ai.gov.in. Read moreSony’s Jim Ryan talks about PlayStation 5 pricing, says it will be a ‘value proposition’Sony has been keeping its cards close to the chest when it comes to the design of its console, forget about the pricing. But in a recent interview, Jim Ryan, Sony Interactive Entertainment’s president and CEO, gave us a hint of what to expect at least in terms of PS5 (PlayStation 5) pricing. Read moreHe’s a bit like Sachin: Ian Gould on why the India batsman reminds him of TendulkarThe Sachin Tendulkar-Virat Kohli debate simply refuses to die down. After a host of former and current cricketers, the latest lot of drawing parallel between the two is that of umpires. Read moreLockdown 5 or Reopen 1? E-passes, curfew, malls, bars: New rules explainedAfter 4 phases of lockdown, the stage 1 of opening up is here. Will all offices open & work at full capacity? Which places are still locked down? Will malls & theatres reopen? Will schools & colleges resume classes? Are state borders open now? This quick guide will answer your questions on new rules. Read moreSpaceX launch: ‘Dinosaur’ hitches a ride to space along with astronauts, people can’t keep calmOn May 31, Falcon 9, a rocket ship by Elon Musk’s company SpaceX, thundered away from Earth with two veteran NASA astronauts, Doug Hurley and Robert Behnken. A video showing the duo preparing for the launch also made its way onto social media. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-odisha-reports-highest-single-day-surge-in-covid-19-cases-and-all-the-latest-news/story-5spBurtVzWViCB6aonYbkO.html
31-05-2020||India||On Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi talks about migrants, caution and Yoga||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday exhorted people not to lower their guard against the coronavirus pandemic and adhere to the protocols of social distancing, wearing masks and washing hands as the major chunk of the economy was opened up.The PM’s message, broadcast through his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat, came a day after the government announced a phased exit from the lockdown imposed since March 25.Referring to India’s fight against the coronavirus pandemic, the PM said with its diverse challenges and population, the country has been able to contain the spread of infection and the death toll is comparatively lower.India on Sunday recorded more than 8,000 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in a single day for the first time as the tally surged to 182,143 and death toll stood at 5,164. Union health ministry data showed there were 8,380 fresh Covid-19 cases, up from Saturday’s 7,964, and 193 fatalities in the last 24 hours.“Covid-19 is very much there and we cannot be complacent… The road ahead is a long one. We are fighting a pandemic about which little was previously known,” he said.Pain of the poorThe Prime Minister said though every section of society has been affected by the pandemic, the pain being felt by the poor cannot be measured in words.PM Modi appreciated the efforts being made by individuals and organisations in helping those in need and said there is no section in the country that is unaffected by the difficulties caused by the pandemic.“…However, the worst affected are the poor and the labourers. Their pain, their agony, and their ordeal can’t be expressed in words,” he said.Even as there has been concern over the movement of migrant workers back to their native states because of limited means of transportation, the PM appreciated the efforts being made by the Indian Railways in helping get workers home.He said the railway too has become a frontline worker in the fight against the pandemic.“The Centre, states, local bodies are all working day and night. The way our railway forces are making efforts round-the-clock they are in a way front line corona warriors transporting safely millions of migrant labourers to their homes; arranging for their food, managing quarantine centres in every district and arrangements for testing and treatment for everyone. All these efforts are going on continuously and at a large scale,” he said.Learn from the pastThe PM said the current situation should be a lesson to learn from the past and make provisions for the future. He cited the situation of workers in the eastern states as a case in point and said the problem suffered by the poor during the crisis has been exacerbated by the lack of development in the region.Self-relianceThe Prime Minister reiterated his message of Atmanirbhar Bharat or self-reliant India and said many problems being faced now would not have arisen if the villages and towns were self-reliant.“At some places work in skill mapping of the labourers is taking place, at some places start-ups are being encouraged, migration commission has been commissioned somewhere and the Centre will also help open up opportunities for employment self-employment and small scale industries in villages. These decisions are aimed at resolving the crisis and building a self-reliant India,” he said.Yoga and AyurvedaPM Modi urged people to explore the benefits of yoga and said several international leaders had shown interest in knowing more about Ayurveda and yoga.“During this corona crisis I had a chance to speak to many world leaders I want to share one secret today, they expressed great interest in Yoga and Ayurveda. Some leaders enquired how these can help in these times of Corona,” he said.“We have to explore yoga for community, immunity and unity,” the PM said.Pointing out that the International Yoga Day is around the corner, he said that during the lockdown people from Hollywood to Haridwar are paying attention to yoga.EnvironmentWith the World Environment Day coming up on June 5, the PM said it is imperative to pay attention to the biodiversity and conservation of water.“In some parts of eastern India, we witnessed the destruction caused by cyclone… I was in Odisha and West Bengal last week to take stock of the situation. The way people of West Bengal and Odisha showed courage in dealing with the situation is commendable. In this hour of crisis the country standing by the side of people of these two states” he said.He said the lockdown has given an opportunity to understand the rich biodiversity around us.“Clean environment is directly linked to our life and the future of our children and therefore we have to be concerned about it individually, I request you to plant some trees on this environment day,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-mann-ki-baat-pm-modi-talks-about-migrants-caution-and-yoga/story-aK9lEFC3k8mFALbAUzSocI.html
31-05-2020||India||In midnight operation, Jaipur officials use drone to kill locusts||A drone was used to kill locusts in Viratnagar in Jaipur district on Saturday night and Sunday morning because the area where the crop-munching pests settled was hilly and inaccessible for tractor-mounted sprayers, said officials.This was the second time in a week when drone was used to spray pesticides on locust swarms in Jaipur district. Earlier, drone was used in Samode, about 40 km north-west of Jaipur, on the night of May 26. Officials said the central government has sent this drone to Rajasthan for locust control operations.“We got information about a 3km-by-1km swarm in three villages of Viratnagar on Saturday. We surveyed the area and found the pest present on 230 hectares but the area was difficult to access so we decided to use drone,” said BR Kadwa, deputy director of agriculture department in Jaipur.Besides the terrain, what made the operation difficult was heavy rain in the area that continued until 10.30 pm. “We could launch the operation only around midnight,” he added. The operation ended around 8 am on Sunday.Kadwa said locust could be controlled only in 105 hectare; teams couldn’t reach the remaining areas. “We managed to kill only half the swarm,” he said.Three vehicles of Locust Warning Organisation (LWO), which is under union agriculture ministry, and three tractor-mounted sprayers were on standby. About 50 litres of pesticides was used in the operation, the officials said.In the second operation, a smaller swarm covering 80 hectare in Amer teshil was killed by 2 LWO vehicles and 3 tractor-mounted sprayers. “We used 20 litres of pesticides to control locust on 45 hectare,” said Danvir Verma, deputy director (horticulture), who supervised the operation.Kadwa said that so far, nine swarms have been detected in Jaipur district.Locust outbreak was reported in Rajasthan in May 2019 after a gap of 26 years. The attack continued till February this year and the pests devoured crops on at least 6,70,000 hectares across 12 districts, causing a loss of around Rs 1,000 crore, according to state agriculture department.This year’s outbreak began on April 11 when locust swarms entered Rajasthan from Hindumalkot in Sriganganagar and Babla in Jaisalmer. “The locusts spread to Jaisalmer, Barmer, Ganganagar and parts of Jodhpur until May 1. After that, the swarms began to wander farther, coming as far as Jaipur, which is about 700km from the international border,” said Dr Suwa Lal Jat, joint director (plant protection).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-midnight-operation-jaipur-officials-use-drone-to-kill-locusts/story-SUa82z8JgkCDd3mViICtUI.html
31-05-2020||India||Odisha reports highest single-day surge in Covid-19 cases with 129 new infections||Odisha on Sunday reported 129 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), in the biggest spike in a single day so far, pushing the number of infected people near 2,000, officials of the health and family welfare department said.They said the state’s tally of Covid-19 stood at 1948 after the new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours.Of the new cases, 18 are in Kendrapada, 16 in Gajapati, 12 in Nuapada, 11 in Balangir, 10 cases each in Ganjam and Jajpur, 7 in Khurda, 6 each in Balasore, Bargarh, Mayurbhanj and Sundergarh, 5 in Cuttack, 4 in Deogarh, 3 in Keonjhar, 2 in Jagatsinghpur, and one each in Malkangiri, Dhenkanal, and Sambalpur.Ganjam district continued to be the epicentre of Covid-19 cases with 414 patients, followed by Jajpur with 269 and Balasore with 152 infections.Officials said despite the rising Covid-19 infections, the number of fully recovered patients in Odisha now exceeds that of active cases. While there are 889 active cases of Covid-19, 1,050 people have recovered and seven have died in the state to date. There are more daily recoveries than persons testing positive for the last three days, officials said.However, Odisha has not been able to ramp up its daily testing capabilities to more than 5,000. On May 30, the 13 laboratories tested 4641 samples while on May 29 it was 3920. The last time the state had tested more than 5,000 samples was on May 23 when 5,388 samples were tested.Health department officials said that lack of trained manpower and technical constraints were limiting their testing capabilities even as more than four lakh migrant workers have arrived in Odisha. Though the samples need to be tested within 48 hours, in several cases they are being tested in four to five hours of collection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-reports-highest-single-day-surge-in-covid-19-cases-with-129-new-infections/story-DXKin5536DVbtuVIS3gu8I.html
31-05-2020||India||Pain of poor and migrants can’t be expressed in words: PM Modi on Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that no section in the country is untouched by the coronavirus pandemic and acknowledged that migrant workers and poor are the worst hit by the outbreak as he said the government is making every effort to mitigate their problems. “There is no section in our country that has not faced difficulty and is not in trouble. And the worst-affected by this crisis are the poor and labourers. Their suffering and pain cannot be expressed in words,” he said.“Who among us would not have felt for their suffering. All of us along with the entire country are trying to share their pain and suffering,” he added. Millions of migrant workers were left jobless by the lockdown, which is aimed at curbing the spread of the coronavirus disease, and have walked thousands of miles home, many dying in accidents along the way.The government announced it will spend Rs 35 billion on food for nearly 80 million migrant workers over the next two months. The allocation is part of a Rs 20 lakh crore fiscal and monetary package to prop up the ailing economy. The Indian Railways started Shramik Special trains on May 1 to ferry the migrant workers stranded after the lockdown was announced on March 24 and extended further.The Prime Minister said the Indian Railways is working round the clock in their efforts to help the poor and the migrant labourers. So are the Centre, state governments and other local bodies, who are working day and night for the migrants and poor people, he added.PM Modi was addressing the 65th edition of his Mann Ki Baat on the final day of the fourth phase of nationwide lockdown to control the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). He had announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown on March 24 as a precautionary measure to contain the infections. The lockdown was later extended thrice till May 31.The Centre has now further extended the lockdown till June 30 and issued new guidelines for phased re-opening of “all activities outside containment zones for the next one month beginning June 1”.PM Modi also stressed that people have to be more cautious after a major chunk of the economy has been opened up.“With all the precautions, aeroplanes have started flying and the industry has started running gradually, meaning a large part of the economy has opened up. In such a situation, we need to be more vigilant,” PM Modi said on Mann Ki Baat.“There should be a rule of two yards and people should use masks and as far as possible, stay inside. You must follow all these things and there should not be any slop in it,” PM Modi said.India recorded more than 8,000 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in a single day for the first time as the tally surged to 182,143 and death toll stood at 5,164, according to the Union health ministry.Data showed there were 8,380 fresh Covid-19 cases, up from Saturday’s 7,964, and 193 fatalities in the last 24 hours. The number of deaths went down from 265 reported on Saturday, a day before the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown was scheduled to end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pain-of-poor-and-migrants-can-t-be-expressed-in-words-pm-modi-on-mann-ki-baat/story-b7EDyeqTTERMLCzXQptVFI.html
31-05-2020||India||Man injured, 2 houses partially damaged in Jammu and Kashmir’s Mendhar in Pak shelling||A man suffered splinter injuries and two houses were partially damaged after Pakistan opened heavy fire and shot mortars along the Line of Control (LoC) in Mendhar sector of Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district on Sunday.The injured person has been identified as Mohammad Yaseen of Gohlad village.“Pakistani troops opened heavy fire and shot mortars on Indian posts and villages around 3.10 am on Sunday. They even targeted villages in the fresh round of unprovoked firing,” said a police officer.“Exchange of fire continued for nearly four hours in which a man suffered splinter injuries in his leg and two houses were partially damaged. The injured was evacuated to a hospital for treatment,” he added.The Pakistani troops had violated the ceasefire on Saturday too by resorting to intense firing and shelling on forward areas in two sectors along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district, news agency PTI quoted a defence spokesperson as saying.The intense firing from small arms across the border started around 10 am in Kirni sector, drawing befitting retaliation by the Indian Army, the spokesperson said.Later in the day, the spokesperson said the Pakistani troops also initiated unprovoked firing and mortar shelling in Khari Karmara sector around 7.45 pm.There was a strong retaliation by the Indian Army, he said, adding that there was no report of any casualty on the Indian side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-injured-2-houses-partially-damaged-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-mendhar-in-pak-shelling/story-UpOb1Ca4jiQUqaornrKmzI.html
31-05-2020||India||Unlock 1: Maharashtra govt may announce certain lockdown relaxations today. Here’s what to expect||Maharashtra government is expected to announce revised guidelines on lockdown relaxations and nature of the fifth phase of Covid-19 lockdown on Sunday. This comes a day after the Central government released guidelines on lockdown 5.0 which is being billed as ‘Unlock 1’. The phase will see a major cut in lockdown restrictions across the country, barring in Covid-19 containment zones. State governments have been allowed to come up with their respective guidelines on the same. Maharashtra has registered a recovery rate of 43.09 percent, wherein 28,081 patients have recovered from coronavirus. There are 34,881 active positive cases of coronavirus in the state out of the total 65,168 positive cases. ‘Gradual and calibrated’According to the Maharashtra government, the opening up of the state will happen in a “gradual and calibrated manner”, even as the cases will go up. The state government is considering moving “cautiously” and relaxations would be given on the degree of “contact” and “essential” nature of the service. Also Watch | Lockdown 5 or Reopen 1? E-passes, curfew, malls, bars: New rules explainedCovid-19 hotspot areas such as Mumbai, Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and Pune are likely to remain under lockdown even as the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Saturday issued guidelines for the phased reopening of activities outside containment zones. Also read: Tamil Nadu extends lockdown till June 30. Here’s what you can and can’t do nowWhat to expectChief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has already indicated that he is not keen to lift curbs in Mumbai, Pune and MMR. On Saturday, NCP chief Sharad Pawar and Thackeray also had a meeting discussing further on opening up of the lockdown. Following this, Thackeray is expected to announce the same after consultation with senior state government officials.The Ministry of Home Affairs, in its guidelines on Saturday, has allowed the opening up of religious places/places of worship, hotels, restaurants, and other hospitality services, shopping malls from June 8. The state government has not decided yet on this but is unlikely to allow the opening of malls, among others.Further, it is expected that the state government could remove some of the municipal corporations, excluding municipal corporations of Mumbai, Pune, from the red zone category. Other municipal corporations including Dhule, Solapur, Aurangabad, Malegaon, Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon, Akola, Amravati and Nagpur cities are in the red zone.For offices and workplacesSince more offices are likely to go operational in the near future, the state has issued guidelines for its employees. In a public health department order dated May 30, it has asked the employees to effectively use e-office regime, avoid travelling in groups, sanitise working places regularly.It has also mandated for the regular checking of the employees with an infrared thermal scanner, use of three-layer masks, etc.The order also stated that any employee found with a temperature more than 100.4 degrees should be institutionally quarantined and workplaces found with more than 5 positive patients to be fumigated and sealed.Meanwhile, Madhav Sathe, former microbiology professor at Nair Hospital said, “We should hope India has reached the peak of the coronavirus graph and cases will slowly decrease over the next 3 to 4 weeks. Recovery rate has also increased to around 41 to 42% This may improve if the best treatment strategy gets emerged in the next few weeks in India.”Sathe added, “By mid-July most cases will be milder.” On whether Mumbai can get ride of lockdown by July, Sathe said crowding still may have to be avoided. “With maximum precautions, mask, eye shield, washing hands after reaching office and maintaining good immunity is all that will be needed, and crowding still will have to be avoided,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-1-maharashtra-govt-may-announce-certain-lockdown-relaxations-today/story-1PuRTlUrQQ6qadHZ1dHxII.html
31-05-2020||India||PM Modi promises help to all states affected by locust attack||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that help will be extended to all those affected by locust attack. he made the announcement on his monthly radio address ‘Mann ki Baat’.“Many parts of the country are under locust attack. These attacks have reminded us that how much damage this small insect could cause. A huge area gets affected by this attack,” PM Modi said.“Adopting new innovations, I am confident that we will be able to deal with this crisis in agricultura sector,” he added.Locust swarms from Pakistan have entered Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh, threatening major damage to standing cotton crops and vegetables. Rajasthan is the worst-affected state.The swarms of locusts has now gone further inside with administration in Uttar Pradesh’s Prayagraj (in eastern part of the state) preparing for a possible attack from the migratory pests.There are three major regions - Dausa in Rajasthan, Jhansi in Uttar Pradesh, Chattarpur district of Madhya Pradesh - where the locusts have attacked predominately.Meanwhile, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh has asked people to burst firecrackers and beat drums to prevent attacks by locust swarms.The minister took stock of the situation out of locust attack in his Katol constituency.Speaking to farmers, he said: “Whenever locust swarms attack, villagers should be alert. Locust attacks can be avoided by bursting firecrackers, the smoke of burning tires or if drums are played.”The desert locust is a species of locust, a swarming short-horned grasshopper. They are known to devour everything in their path, posing an unprecedented threat to food supply and livelihoods of millions of people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-promises-help-to-all-states-affected-by-locust-attack/story-WwfgCXO27guLkmXufCkBDO.html
31-05-2020||India||Fight against Covid-19 is being powered by citizen’s innovative spirit: PM Modi on Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday praised the spirit of innovation among Indians during his 65th Mann Ki Baat radio programme and said it is helping the country fight the coronavirus pandemic.“One more thing, which has touched my mind, is innovation in this hour of crisis. All the countrymen from villages to cities, from our small traders to startups, our labs are inventing new ways, innovating in the fight against corona,” he said on Mann Ki Baat programme.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“In addition to the will to change any situation, a lot depends on innovation. Thousands of years of mankind’s journey have reached such a modern era by continuous, innovation, therefore, these special innovations are also a great foundation for our victory over this epidemic,” he said.PM Modi gave the “very interesting” example of Rajendra Yadav from Nashik in Maharashtra. He said Yadav, a farmer in Satna, has built a sanitation machine by connecting it to his tractor to save his village from coronavirus infection. “And this innovative machine is working very effectively,” the Prime Minister added.The Prime Minister’s Mann Ki Baat address came on the final day of the fourth phase of nationwide lockdown to control the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).His address came a day after the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) issued new guidelines for phased re-opening of “all activities outside containment zones for the next one month beginning June 1”.PM Modi also said people have to be more cautious after a major chunk of the economy has been opened up.“With all the precautions, aeroplanes have started flying and the industry has started running gradually, meaning a large part of the economy has opened up. In such a situation, we need to be more vigilant,” PM Modi said on Mann Ki Baat.“There should be a rule of two yards and people should use masks and as far as possible, stay inside. You must follow all these things and there should not be any slop in it,” he said.The Prime Minister had announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown on March 24 as a precautionary measure to contain the infections. The lockdown was later extended thrice till May 31.India recorded more than 8,000 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in a single day for the first time as the tally surged to 182,143 and death toll stood at 5,164, according to the Union health ministry.Data showed there were 8,380 fresh Covid-19 cases, up from Saturday’s 7,964, and 193 fatalities in the last 24 hours. The number of deaths went down from 265 reported on Saturday, a day before the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown was scheduled to end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fight-against-covid-19-is-being-powered-by-citizen-s-innovative-spirit-pm-modi-on-mann-ki-baat/story-RkDRpPHQEYYifj1UvU88RK.html
31-05-2020||India||From Hollywood to Haridwar, people taking Yoga seriously: PM on ‘Mann Ki Baat’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that people are realising the true potential of Yoga and Ayurveda as they battle the coronavirus pandemic.“During the coronavirus crisis, I had a chance to speak to many world leaders. In their conversation, they expressed great interest in Yoga and Ayurveda. Some leaders enquired how Yoga and Ayurveda can help in these times,” PM Modi said during the 65th ‘Mann ki Baat’, his monthly radio address.“People are becoming more health conscious as Yoga is getting associated with their lives. During coronavirus crisis too, from Hollywood to Haridwar, people re paying serious attention to Yoga while being at home,” he said.“Everywhere, people are willing to know more and adopt Yoga and Ayurveda. Many people who have never practiced Yoga are either taking classes online or learning it through online videos,” the Prime Minister said.He added that in true terms, Yoga is good for community, immunity and unity.He also gave details about how Yoga can help in battling Covid-19. “This virus affects our respiratory system the most. In Yoga, there are many pranayams (breathing exercises) to strengthen the respiratory system. We have been seeing their effects for a long time. These are time-tested techniques which have their own significance,” PM Modi said.He also asked the people to stay vigilant as a major part of the country’s economy will now open up after four phases of lockdown.“With all due precautions, passenger flights have resumed. Gradually industrial activities are rebooting. It means a large chunk of the economy has now opened up. Now, we need to be even more vigilant,” PM Modi said.On Saturday, the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) issued new guidelines for phased re-opening of “all activities outside containment zones for the next one month beginning June 1”.The Prime Minister had on March 24 announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown as a precautionary measure to contain the spread of COVID-19. The lockdown was later extended, in phases, till May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-hollywood-to-haridwar-people-taking-yoga-seriously-pm-modi-on-mann-ki-baat/story-mCOLvUeBAtSv8G6UsfAkVI.html
31-05-2020||India||Low-pressure area off Mumbai coast brewing into a cyclonic storm: IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday a low-pressure area building on the country’s western coast in the Arabian Sea will develop into a cyclonic storm in the subsequent 24 hours.The build-up of a cyclonic storm in Maharashtra and Gujarat comes after Cyclone Amphan battered West Bengal and Odisha just a week ago. “A low-pressure area formed over South East & adjoining East Central Arabian Sea and Lakshadweep area. To concentrate into a Depression over East-central and adjoining Southeast Arabian Sea during next 24 hours and into a Cyclonic Storm during the subsequent 24 hours,” IMD tweeted. The low pressure is formed over the Arabian Sea is likely to move towards Maharashtra and Gujarat and may bring heavy rains in these two states. Another storm is building over the Arabian Sea and is close to the African coast and likely to bring rain and strong winds in Oman and Yemen, the weather bureau has forecast.IMD had on Thursday the monsoon was likely to arrive in Kerala, which marks the beginning of the four-month rainy season when India receives 70% of its annual rainfall, around its normal onset date of June 1.It said there were new developing patterns that could speed up the progress of the rain system. IMD on May 15 said the onset was likely to be delayed by four days and the monsoon was expected to arrive on June 5.The monsoon normally sets in over Kerala around June 1 and advances northwards, usually in surges, and covers the entire country around July 15.IMD said conditions were becoming favourable for further advance of the monsoon into some more parts of south Arabian Sea, Maldives-Comorin area, south-west and the south-east Bay of Bengal during the next 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/low-pressure-area-off-mumbai-coast-brewing-into-a-cyclonic-storm-imd/story-LH0ymDLMnpWGhziF7D1EPL.html
31-05-2020||India||PM Modi addresses Mann Ki Baat, says more caution needed after lockdown ease||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday India needs to be more cautious after a major chunk of the economy has been opened up as he addressed his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat.The Prime Minister’s address came on the final day of the fourth phase of nationwide lockdown to control the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“With all the precautions, aeroplanes have started flying and the industry has started running gradually, meaning a large part of the economy has opened up. In such a situation, we need to be more vigilant,” PM Modi said on Mann Ki Baat.“There should be a rule of two yards and people should use masks and as far as possible, stay inside. You must follow all these things and there should not be any slop in it,” PM Modi said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHis address came a day after the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) issued new guidelines for phased re-opening of “all activities outside containment zones for the next one month beginning June 1”.The Prime Minister had announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown on March 24 as a precautionary measure to contain the infections. The lockdown was later extended thrice till May 31.The 65th edition of Mann Ki Baat also comes a day after the one-year anniversary of the second term of the Modi government.India recorded more than 8,000 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in a single day for the first time as the tally surged to 182,143 and death toll stood at 5,164, according to the Union health ministry.Data showed there were 8,380 fresh Covid-19 cases, up from Saturday’s 7,964, and 193 fatalities in the last 24 hours. The number of deaths went down from 265 reported on Saturday, a day before the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown was scheduled to end.The Prime Minister had focused on the situation prevailing in the country due to the coronavirus pandemic in his last Mann Ki Baat programme and urged people to help the poor, migrants and needy during the lockdown.PM Modi had said that India’s fight against the coronavirus disease is “people-driven” and is being fought by the masses and the administration hand in hand.And, he repeated his comment on Sunday’s Mann Ki Baat episode.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-addresses-mann-ki-baat-says-more-caution-needed-after-lockdown-ease/story-lAqw1BLhyVdve7Sx8BfKRP.html
31-05-2020||India||As India moves into Covid-19’s Unlock 1.0, a word of caution from PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that it is important to be even more vigilant as major chunk of economy has opened up.In his monthly radio address ‘Mann ki Baat’, he said that people of the country must follow all the precautions without any laxity.“India is valiantly fighting the battle against coronavirus with collective efforts. Looking at the world, we realise how big is the achievement of Indians,” PM Modi said.“Whatever we lost, we all regret but whatever we could save is definitely the result of the collective will power,” he added.He also said that the entire movement if people driven and hailed various initiatives launched by people to serve people during this period of crisis.“There is a saying in our country ‘Seva Parmo Dharmah’ - service is pleasure in itself. People who serve others have ample confidence, positivity and vitality,” said the Prime Minister.PM Modi further said that the road ahead is a long one. “We are fighting a pandemic about which little was previously known.”He said that the fight against Covid-19 “is being powered by innovative spirit of our citizens”.On Saturday, the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) issued new guidelines for phased re-opening of “all activities outside containment zones for the next one month beginning June 1”.Incidentally, the ‘Mann Ki Baat’ address comes a day after the one-year anniversary of the second term of the Modi government.In the previous episode of ‘Mann Ki Baat’, the Prime Minister had focused on the situation prevailing in the country due to Covid-19 and urged people to help the poor, migrants and needy during the lockdown.The Prime Minister had on March 24 announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown as a precautionary measure to contain the spread of Covid-19. The lockdown was later extended, in phases, till May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/important-to-be-more-vigilant-as-economy-opens-up-pm-modi-in-mann-ki-baat/story-SIiJhplfRN1wJ1qTmV0WEM.html
31-05-2020||India||Surge in coronavirus cases in West Bengal, tally crosses 5,000: A look at Covid-19 situation across India||On Sunday, India touched a grim milestone after registering the highest single-day spike of 8,380 Covid-19 cases, the Ministry of Health stated. With this, the country’s coronavirus tally has jumped to 182,143 cases. Covid-19 death toll in the country stands at 5,164 while 86,983 people have been cured or discharged from hospitals. As states gradually prepare to unlock the lockdown, the challenge is to keep the rising the number of coronavirus cases in check. Most state governments are expected to issue their respective guidelines on ‘Unlock 1’ phase announced by the Centre which will most of the activities resume across the country from June 1.Amid such developments, here’s taking a look at the prevailing Covid-19 situation in various states. States with over 20,000 casesMaharashtra and Tamil Nadu are struggling with a rapid rise in the number of coronavirus infections. Maharashtra on Sunday reported a total of 65,168 coronavirus cases, in Tamil Nadu the figure stands at 21,184. As many as 2,197 people have died of coronavirus in Maharashtra - highest in the country, while Tamil Nadu has seen 160 fatalities. Mumbai and Chennai are the two most affected cities in the respective states. Also read: 6,000, 7,000, 8,000 - How the final week of lockdown 4.0 saw spike in Covid-19 casesStates with over 15,000 casesThe national capital and PM Modi’s native place are two such states in the country where the Covid-19 cases have crossed the 15,000-mark. Delhi’s Covid-19 tally rose to 18,549 on Sunday, 8,075 patients have recovered here while 416 died due to Covid-19. In Gujarat, the total number of Covid-19 cases reached 16,343 on Saturday. The state has seen 9,230 people recover from coronavirus while 1,007 people have died. Ahmedabad is the worst-hit district in Gujarat. States with over 5,000 casesRajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have reported more than 5,000 coronavirus cases so far. In Rajasthan, Covid-19 cases reached 8,617 on Sunday. The state has reported 193 fatalities while 5,739 patients have recovered from the infection here.Madhya Pradesh, on the other hand, has registered 7,891 infections till date. Three hundred and forty-three people have died from Covid-19 in the state while 4,444 have recovered.The number of Covid-19 positive cases have jumped to 7,445 in Uttar Pradesh. While 4,410 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 201 have died from the infection here. The number of infected cases in West Bengal reached crossed the 5,000-mark on Sunday. There have been 5,130 Covid-19 cases and 309 deaths. As many as 1,970 patients have recovered from coronavirus in the state till date. States with under 5,000 casesBihar is rapidly inching toward the 5,000-mark. Covid-19 cases in the state stand at 3,636; death toll has jumped to 20. Andhra Pradesh has seen 3,569 Covid-19 cases, 60 people have died in the state. Situation in other statesTelangana, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Assam and Haryana are states where Covid-19 cases are under the 3,000-mark.In Kerala, the Covid-19 tally stands at 1,208. The southern state has seen 575 coronavirus recoveries while nine people have died. Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh and Tripura have reported around 500 Covid-19 cases or less. Goa, Puducherry, Meghalaya, Ladakh, Nagaland and Manipur have less than 100 Covid-19 cases.Union territory of Dadra Nagar Haveli has reported two cases of Covid-19, Sikkim has one. Arunachal Pradesh has four Covid-19 patients and one of them has recovered.All coronavirus patients in Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Mizoram have recovered. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surge-in-coronavirus-cases-in-west-bengal-tally-crosses-5-000-a-look-at-covid-19-situation-across-india/story-tNxkC2h5A5evHEVr5iO24J.html
31-05-2020||India||Watch Live: ‘India’s fight against Covid-19 is people driven,’ says PM Modi on Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday addressed the nation in his monthly radio programme ‘Mann Ki Baat’ and said that every Indian has played a crucial part in the battle against Covid-19. The prime minister said that India’s fight against the coronavirus pandemic is a “people-driven” one. PM Modi said that the citizens have shown immense determination during the coronavirus crisis and have also shown that “sacrifice” and “service” are not just our ideals but also part of our lifestyle. “Now is the time to be more careful,” the prime minister cautioned as a host of economic activities resume operation in the fifth phase of lockdown from June 1. Also read: As India moves into Covid-19’s Unlock 1.0, a word of caution from PM ModiIndia's Seva Shakti is visible in the fight against COVID-19. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/hVGETo0XJO“With many precautions, domestic flights have resumed operations. Industries will also resume gradually. This means a chunk of our economy has started again and we need to be more careful now,” the prime minister said reiterating the significance of maintaining “do gaj ki doori” and social distancing norms. PM Modi said that no carelessness should occur when it comes to wearing masks in public. “Stay indoors as much as possible,” he said during the address.  It is important to be even more careful now. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/VAaqoyaG5VTalking about Covid-19 fatalities in the country, PM Modi said that the rate of coronavirus deaths in the country is fairly low, although “the loss of even one life is heartbreaking,” he said. “Whatever we could save is an achievement in itself and that could only be possible due to the strong resolution, determination of all citizens,” PM Modi said. PM Modi’s 64th edition of ‘Mann Ki Baat’ comes in the wake of Covid-19 lockdown 5.0, which will begin on Monday. Listen to the Prime Minister Live here:  Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Mann ki Baat address comes a day before India is set to enter the fifth phase of nationwide coronavirus lockdown from June 1. Billed as ‘Unlock 1’, the phase will be marked by the lifting of most lockdown restrictions across the country barring Covid-19 containment zones. Metro services, international flights, gyms, swimming pools, bars, amusement parks will remain closed amid this phase. Various state governments are likely to issue their respective guidelines today that are to be followed from tomorrow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-live-pm-modi-begins-his-address-to-the-nation-on-mann-ki-baat/story-ELfl7gtqt8P79hB8kkOtXM.html
31-05-2020||India||Senior IAS officer in Jammu and Kashmir tests positive for Covid-19, hospitalised||A senior officer in Jammu and Kashmir tested positive for coronavirus disease Covid-19 on Saturday. This comes a few days after the wife and son of an advisor to the Lieutenant Governor contracted Covid-19.The officer has been hospitalised at Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana super-specialty hospital in Kakryal in Reasi district on Sunday morning.The IAS officer, who came back from Srinagar on Saturday, had attended a high-level meeting in Jammu that was chaired by a top bureaucrat, a financial commissioner, a principal secretary, a senior bureaucrat in the disaster management authority and officials from health and medical education department, said a top bureaucrat on the condition of anonymity.While the senior IAS officer, who is holding rank of commissioner secretary, was hospitalised at Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana super-specialty hospital in Kakryal in Reasi district on Sunday morning, top bureaucrats have been either sent to hotel or home quarantines and their samples are being taken, he added.A senior official from government medical college and hospital, who attended the meeting said, “I have gone into home quarantine as soon as I came to know that the IAS official has tested positive.”The sample of the senior IAS officer was taken for testing last evening after he came back to Jammu from Srinagar.The meeting was held around 4.30 pm on Saturday as a pre-cursor to discuss lifting of lockdown restrictions in the union territory from June 8.“Other senior officials include a divisional commissioner, heads of health and medical education department, principal of GMC Jammu, directors of national health mission, health services, medical supplies corporation, microbiologist and epidemiologist,” said the official.A senior doctor said, “The senior IAS officer, who had given his sample for Covid-19 test, should not have attended the meeting. He behaved carelessly and has put others into risk.”When contacted, authorities concerned refused to comment on the entire issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-ias-officer-in-jammu-and-kashmir-tests-positive-for-covid-19-hospitalised/story-K4IrBKTYyzOhRLmlM3fS3O.html
31-05-2020||India||Tamil Nadu extends lockdown till June 30: Here’s what you can and can’t do now||Tamil Nadu on Sunday extended the lockdown till June 30, a day after the Centre announced a graded exit plan, with more relaxations that included opening up public transport partially and allowing more employees at workplaces.The southern state is among the worst affected by the coronavirus pandemic with 21,184 Covid-19 cases and 160 deaths. It witnessed the biggest single-day spike of 938 new coronavirus cases on Saturday.“To prevent the spread of coronavirus, the curfew is being extended till June 30 under the State Disaster Management Act and as per the Union Home Ministry’s notification,” chief minister K Palaniswami said in a statement.The state government also announced a number of other relaxations, barring containment zones, and these include permitting showrooms and jewellery shops to re-open but not malls.Pubic transport will resume with reduced services from June 1 but buses will not be allowed in Chennai, Kancheepurm, Tiruvallur and Chengalpet districts. They have the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the state.Private stage carriers will be allowed to operate on authorised routes.The curbs on religious places, inter-state bus transport, and Metro and suburban rails would continue.Here is what will remain closed:* Temples and other places of worship will not be opened* Parks, beaches, cinema halls, gyms and educational institutions will also continue to be closed* There will be no change in lockdown norms in containment areas* Ban on inter-state transport will remain in place.In non-containment areas of greater Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kanchipuram and Chengalpet, the following are allowed:* All private companies can work with 50% staff* IT companies have been permitted to ferry up to 40 employees in their own transport to work* Big showrooms, except malls and barring in containment zones can open with 50% staff but without air conditioners. This includes textiles and jewellery shops. Five customers have been permitted to enter these places* Hotels can operate with 50% seats from June 8 and people can sit and eat. But AC shouldn’t be operated. Earlier only takeaways were allowed. Seating arrangements should be according to physical distancing norms* Salons and beauty parlours can function without AC. The government has said it will issue separate guidelines later.* In taxis, only three people, excluding the driver, can travel* In auto-rickshaws and cycle rickshaws, only two people are allowed, excluding the driver* E-pass will not be required if someone is travelling within Chennai* Tea shops in the state will also be allowed to open from June 8 with 50% occupancy.Here is what will happen in the rest of Tamil Nadu:* Private companies can function with 100% strength but work from home should be encouraged* Shops of the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac) can function from 10am to 8pm* Non-essential e-commerce delivery has been allowed.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-extends-lockdown-till-june-30-here-s-what-you-can-and-can-t-do-now/story-Ib0mUAemlzQuJk2ozG9QMN.html
31-05-2020||India||From Rajasthan, locust swarms cover a distance of nearly 1,000 km, threaten Prayagraj in UP||The swarms of locusts, which entered western India from Pakistan, has gone further inside with administration in Uttar Pradesh’s Prayagraj (in eastern part of the state) preparing for a possible attack from the migratory pests.“The swarm of locust flying from Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, has reached Uttar Pradesh. District authority and state government are prepared to control the attack of locust and have warned people. We have also trained the farmers about how to save their crops,” said Dr Sunil Kumar Singh, district agriculture officer, Prayagraj.There are three major regions - Dausa in Rajasthan, Jhansi in Uttar Pradesh, Chattarpur district of Madhya Pradesh - where the locusts have attacked predominately.“The swarm of the locust is expected to spoil the crops and trees of the region to a great extent. In the wake of possible locust attack in the city, we have tested the machines and now we are prepared to deal with it,” said Ajay Kumar Sharma, member of the team preparing to fight the locust attack in Prayagraj.Meanwhile, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh has asked people to burst firecrackers and beat drums to prevent attacks by locust swarms.The minister took stock of the situation out of locust attack in his Katol constituency.Speaking to farmers, he said: “Whenever locust swarms attack, villagers should be alert. Locust attacks can be avoided by bursting firecrackers, the smoke of burning tires or if drums are played.”Earlier, Maharashtra Agriculture Minister Dada Bhuse informed that around 50 per cent locust swarms were killed in the state by the Agriculture Department.Locust swarms from Pakistan have entered Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh, threatening major damage to standing cotton crops and vegetables, said a spokesperson of Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, adding that Rajasthan is the most affected state.The desert locust is a species of locust, a swarming short-horned grasshopper. They are known to devour everything in their path, posing an unprecedented threat to food supply and livelihoods of millions of people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-rajasthan-locust-swarms-cover-a-distance-of-nearly-1-000-km-threaten-prayagraj/story-k10nIFMRT5rWkpxUKpnHvM.html
31-05-2020||India||Over 8,000 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours for first time; India’s tally at 182,143||India recorded more than 8,000 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in a single day for the first time as the tally surged to 182,143 and death toll stood at 5,164, according to the Union health ministry.Data showed there were 8,380 fresh Covid-19 cases, up from Saturday’s 7,964, and 193 fatalities in the last 24 hours. The number of deaths went down from 265 reported on Saturday, a day before the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown was scheduled to end.India went under a sweeping, unprecedented lockdown on March 25 when people were banned from stepping out of their homes for any purpose except for a handful of essential or emergency reasons. At the time, the number of cases in the country was 602, and deaths, 12. The curbs have slowly been relaxed in the months since with the government announcing on Saturday a phased Unlock 1 plan from June onwards.There were 86,983 people who have been cured and with this, the recovery rate in the country has gone slightly up to 47.75% from 47.40% on Saturday.Most of India’s 182,143 Covid-19 cases and 5,164 deaths have been reported from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh as the Centre extended the nationwide lockdown to June 30 but also allowed the resumption of some activities that had remained shut till now.Maharastra continues to be the worst-affected state and has the highest number of infections at 65,168, including 2,197 fatalities. There are 21,184 Covid-19 cases and 160 deaths in Tamil Nadu, which extended the lockdown till June 30.Delhi, which will decide on the lockdown extension on Sunday, has 18,549 infections, including 416 deaths and Gujarat with 16,343 Covid-19 patients has recorded more deaths than the national capital at 1,007.Globally, more than 6 million people have been infected by Sars-Cov-2, which causes the coronavirus disease, and 369,126 have succumbed, according to the Johns Hopkins Covid-19 tracker.Better ratesIndia’s fatality rate at 2.8% till Saturday was much lower than the global 6%, data shows. India took 79 days to record these many deaths, while some of the major Covid-19 hotspot – such the United States, the United Kingdom, Spain and Italy – took less than a third of this duration to rack up similar counts. Countries like Spain and Italy, and New York city, where hospitals were overwhelmed after a sudden spike in infections, have recorded a sharp increase in fatalities. Most of these regions enforced varying degrees of lockdowns after cases began to spike, compared to India that adopted such restrictions early on.The country’s top experts said keeping fatalities down by focussing on health care facilities will now be the most crucial strategy to deal with the pandemic across the country, where the outbreak has largely taken hold and a rise in the number of infections is inevitable.According to the Union health ministry on Saturday, the doubling time of coronavirus cases in India over the last fortnight has improved to 15.4 days from 13.3 days.“Two things worked in our favour: the young demographic and early implementation of lockdown before cases exploded, helping flatten the curve and prevent deaths,” said Dr Ambarish Dutta, associate professor of epidemiology and public health, Indian Institute of Public Health-Bhubaneswar.According to an analysis of laboratory-surveillance data by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the attack rate of Covid-19 in India is 0.00332%, which means that only 33.2 people per million population are infected.It is considerably lower than the attack rates in other countries; in the US it is 0.2523%, in France 0.3364%, in the UK 0.1962% and in Canada 0.0899%, according to the US National Library of Medicine.The health ministry reiterated on Saturday that all precautions, including physical distancing at public places and workplaces, frequent hand washing and use of masks or face covers, must be taken while “living with the new normal” of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-8-000-new-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-for-first-time-india-s-tally-at-182-143/story-IZvMIMqgqr4iExD4U4vznJ.html
31-05-2020||India||6,000, 7,000, 8,000: How the final week of lockdown 4.0 saw spike in Covid-19 cases||India on Sunday registered its highest single-day spike in the number of Covid-19 cases. According to the Union health ministry update at 8 am, the number of cases in the country rose by 8,380 in the last 24 hours (between Saturday and Sunday).The death toll climbed to 5,164 after 193 fatalities in the last 24 hours, the health ministry data further showed.The final week of the end of lockdown 4.0 has been the deadliest, with India registering record Covid-19 cases and fatalities. On May 24, the number of new cases were 6,767, it increased to 6,977 on May 25. The number dipped to 6,560 on May 28, but again rose to 7,466 the next day.On May 30 (Saturday), India saw another big single-day spike with 7,965 new Covid-19 cases. And Sunday’s numbers showed the biggest single-day spike with more that 8,300 cases.India is the ninth worst-hit nation by the Covid-19 pandemic. The number of active Covid-19 cases stood to 89,995 while 86,983 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, the Union health ministry said.Maharastra continues to be the worst-affected state and has the highest number of infections at 65,168, including 2,197 fatalities. There are 21,184 Covid-19 cases and 160 deaths in Tamil Nadu, which extended the lockdown till June 30.Delhi, which will decide on the lockdown extension on Sunday, has 18,549 infections, including 416 deaths and Gujarat with 16,343 Covid-19 patients has recorded more deaths than the national capital at 1,007.However, India has a fatality rate of 2.8 per cent, which is much lower than the global six per cent. It has given experts hope that the outbreak in India may not be as deadly as it has been in many countries, perhaps highlighting some of the gains from the nationwide lockdown. Meanwhile, the recovery rate in India improved to 47 per cent on Saturday, up five percentage points from just a week ago.The country’s top experts said keeping fatalities down by focussing on health care facilities will now be the most crucial strategy to deal with the pandemic across the country, where the outbreak has largely taken hold and a rise in the number of infections is inevitable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-000-7-000-8-000-how-the-final-week-of-lockdown-4-0-saw-spike-in-covid-19-cases/story-ofYldK8PxzCkHjzVZR5uNL.html
31-05-2020||India||Rain, thunderstorm bring relief to Delhi and parts of North India; ‘heatwave conditions unlikely for a week’: IMD||Spells of showers in the national capital and parts of North India have brought a much-needed relief from the heatwave conditions prevailing in the region. The India Meteorological Department has stated that the heatwave conditions in Delhi have abated and are unlikely to surface until June 8.  Thunderstorm and rainfall lashed the national capital over the weekend. Delhi is predicted to receive light showers on Sunday as well. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to hover around 35 degrees Celsius and 22 degrees Celsius respectively.On Saturday, a partly cloudy sky kept the mercury in check in the national capital and similar conditions are expected over the next 24 hours. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the India Meteorological Department’s regional forecasting centre here, said the effect of the current western disturbance and easterly winds will reduce significantly by Sunday evening.Also read: 2020 could be the hottest year since records began, experts warn He said, the maximum temperature in Delhi-NCR is likely to increase by two to four degrees Celsius from June 1 to June 3, “However, the mercury will remain below 40 degrees Celsius over most places and heatwave conditions will not return,” Srivastava said.According to the IMD, the maximum temperature in the national capital is likely to remain under 40 degrees Celsius in the coming week with occurrences of rainfall and partly cloudy skies. Thunderstorm, lightning and rainfall is very likely at a few places over Uttar Pradesh’s Muzaffarnagar, Moradabad, Rampur, Bareilly, Pilibhit, Budaun, Sambhal, Amroha, Bulandshahr, Aligarh, Etah, Kasganj, Farrukhabad, Shahjahanpur, Lakhimpur Kheri districts and adjoining areas on Sunday, the weather department stated.  Under the influence of a current Western Disturbance and an east-west trough in lower tropospheric levels, the Western Himalayan region and adjoining plains are likely to receive rainfall, accompanied by thunderstorm, in the next 24 hours, the IMD stated in its weather bulletin. Southern peninsular India and states like Kerala are predicted to receive heavy to very rainfall between May 30 to June 1, the Met department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-thunderstorm-bring-relief-to-delhi-parts-of-north-india-heatwave-conditions-unlikely-for-a-week-imd/story-Z3Pag0jSINt6LUynSdwTHL.html
31-05-2020||India||Unlock 1: Most states to release guidelines on Sunday, Maharashtra not keen to lift curbs||Most of the state governments have said that they will issue state specific guidelines on Sunday in pursuant of the Centre’s directions that allow resumption of almost all activities, except a few such as running of metros and opening of cinemas and gymnasiums, from June 1.The Centre’s new guidelines provide a roadmap for lifting of the lockdown and allows states to take a call on when the educational institutions, public transport and other social gathering places can open and under which conditions. It also gives powers to the states to take strict measures as per their needs and have to follow the ones issued by the Centre. The nationwide lockdown was first announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 for three weeks to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease. It has been extended thrice since then.However, the relaxations would not be applicable in many areas in 13 cities that account for 70% of the Covid-19 cases, which have been declared as containment areas. The Centre has asked the states to identify the containment centres on high-risk factors such as confirmation rate, fatality rate, doubling rate, tests per million people etc. The Centre has already shared its parametres with the state governments asking them to search for Covid-19 cases through house-to-house surveillance, contact tracing, testing protocol and clinical management of active cases.The Centre’s announcement comes days after several chief ministers requested lockdown exit guidelines during their discussion with Home Minister Amit Shah and Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba. “We cannot permanently remain in the lockdown,” West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Friday. On Saturday, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal backed her saying that the country needs to learn to live with Covid-19.Banerjee has already announced all activities will be allowed in West Bengal from June 1 as the state was reeling under huge financial crisis. States such as Punjab, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh have also citied financial crunch as a reason for allowing all economic activities saying sustaining lockdown financially will not be possible anymore. Many of the state government had already started working on reopening of hospitability industry, gymnasiums and malls. Karnataka, Goa and Uttarakhand have already announced that they would open hotels and restaurants from June 1 and have urged the Centre to allow opening of gymnasiums and malls also.State governments such as Rajasthan, Goa and Uttarakhand have also announced opening of all tourism places from June 1, including wildlife areas. These state governments have issued standard operating procedures for sanitising hotels and resorts and allowing guests with social distancing norms. Restaurants in these states would be allowed with 50 per cent of the existing seating capacity. Goa will also be opening up activities along the beaches from June 1 with social distancing norms. Uttarakhand government will open Chardham Yatra from June 1 for pilgrims under the new home ministry order, state government officials said.As inter-state travel without permit has been allowed, the state governments will have to come up with new policy on quarantine. “No more we would be able to provide institutional quarantine to all,” said a UP government official. Echoing his sentiments, a Bihar government official said the state has already relaxed institutional quarantine rules to seven days for migrant workers and may further reduce it as more trains will resume operations from Monday.An official in Himachal Pradesh government said that they were proposing quarantine of only symptomatic residents of the state who want to return back. However, the bigger challenge for hill states like Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand is how to prevent huge tourism inflow expected due to rising mercury levels in the plains. “We are discussing this issue and very soon guidelines for tourists will be issued,” said Uttarakhand tourism minister Satpal Maharaj. Reacting to the MHA order, Odisha Special Relief Commissioner Pradip Jena said relaxation in night curfew for two more hours (till 9 pm from earlier 7 pm) is a welcome step. “Much of the things described in the guidelines, we have little role to play as the central ministries would issue standard operating procedures such as opening of gyms, temples and schools. We would declare Odisha guidelines tomorrow following all that the MHA guidelines have said,” Jena said on Saturday.A senior Uttar Pradesh government official said they would issue the lockdown 5.0 guidelines in the next few days. “We will examine the guidelines and issue the state government’s guidelines soon,” said chief secretary RK Tiwari. Officials said the state government was considering opening of all states borders for free movement of people even though migrant workers have been a cause of concern as they contributed in large numbers to the surge in Covid cases in recent past. However, Maharashtra is expected to continue with most of the lockdown 4 restrictions as the number of Covid-19 cases doubled in the state in the past fortnight. The officials said more relaxations can be offered in allowing opening of standalone shops in urban areas. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has already indicated that he is not keen to lift curbs in Mumbai, Pune and Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) as Covid-19 cases could spike if restrictions are lifted.The Maharashtra government is expected to issue its revised guidelines for the state by Sunday. An official said that the government is going to provide further restrictions in a “gradual and calibrated manner” but Covid-19 cases are bound to go up as this happens. The official added that the state government is moving “cautiously” and relaxations would be given on the degree of “contact” and “essential” nature of the service.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-1-0-most-states-to-release-guidelines-on-sunday-maharashtra-not-keen-to-lift-curbs/story-aWvXw8uFDdEU5CCIs5RnpI.html
31-05-2020||India||Amid Centre’s Unlock 1.0, these states will have their own lockdown rules||At least four states of Punjab, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, and Mizoram have announced they will extend the lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) even as the Centre issued guidelines to ease the restrictions.The Union home ministry said on Saturday places of worship, shopping malls, and hotels and restaurants can open from June 8 as it released details of the first of a three-phase plan aimed at lifting stringent restrictions imposed over two months ago to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The plan, called Unlock 1.0, also removes restrictions on inter- and intra-state travel. Lockdown 4.0 ends on Sunday.The Centre has empowered states and Union territories to identify containment zones in accordance with the health ministry’s guidelines. Local authorities can also identify buffer zones, which are areas adjoining containment zones, and impose restrictions.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHere’s what has been allowed and restricted by these four states and others:PunjabPunjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh announced a four-week extension of the lockdown till June 30. Amarinder Singh said his government will take into account the Centre’s guidelines for lockdown 5.0.West BengalThe West Bengal government on Saturday decided to extend the Covid-19 lockdown until June 15 only in containment zones, allowing greater relaxation in all other areas.The order said a strict lockdown will be imposed in the affected areas, with no relaxations. Relaxations will be allowed in containment zones B and C from June 1, with the resumption of work in tea gardens, jute mills, micro, small, medium & large industries, and the construction industry.Intra-state movement of government and private buses has also been allowed with passengers not exceeding the seating capacity of the vehicle. No passengers will be allowed to travel standing and all passengers must wear masks and gloves.Bengal has allowed the opening of religious places from June 1 with not more than 10 persons gathering at a time. The state has also allowed all offices and industries to resume work with 100% workforce beyond the “affected areas”.Restaurants and shopping malls have been allowed to open on June 1. Government offices will function with 70% of the workforce on a rotational basis. While the government said it encouraged private offices to adopt a work-from-home policy, the number of staff in offices will be decided by the companies.Madhya Pradesh Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that schools in the state would open after June 13 while speaking to students from 10 districts through video conference on Saturday.“But the final decision on this would be taken after some days because we are going to extend lockdown till June 15,” Chouhan said.Mizoram The state’s health minister, R Lalthangliana, said the state was extending the lockdown in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases in neighbouring states and the return of stranded people.GujaratThe government said curfew will remain in place from 9 am to 5 am from June 1. It also removed the policy of odd-even and said all the shops can be opened till 7pm.Tamil NaduThe Tamil Nadu government has given further relaxation in the restrictions placed on the shooting of TV serials. A maximum of 60 artists and technicians can visit the shooting set from May 31. RajasthanMonuments and museums run by the state government will be opened from Monday. Entry will be free for tourists for the first two weeks. These monuments will open from 9am to 2am on Tuesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays in the first week starting June 1. For the next week, they will open on four days from 9am to 1pm and from 3pm to 5pm.KarnatakaThe Karnataka government has relaxed the curfew rules on Sunday, upholding the lockdown order from 7pm to 7am.GoaDistrict magistrates will issue travel passes once again. Considering the arrival of a large number of people in Goa in the last two days, the Pramod Sawant-led government is considering terminating the self-issued e-pass facility started recently and reimplement the previous system.Himachal Pradesh Government and private passenger buses will operate from June 1 in Himachal Pradesh. Buses will be able to ply from 7am to 7pm after a gap of 70 days. Buses will carry 60% of the total capacity but air conditioners will not run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-centre-s-unlock-1-0-these-states-will-have-their-own-lockdown-rules/story-mwroa9PaqrkLzEo9H3nsCO.html
31-05-2020||India||Railing of Taj Mahal’s main mausoleum damaged in thunderstorm||The iconic Taj Mahal was damaged due to thunderstorm on Friday night in Uttar Pradesh’s Agra district, officials said.The marble railing of the main mausoleum and red sandstone railings suffered damage due to thunderstorm, officials said on Saturday.ASI Superintending Archaeologist Basant Kumar Swarnkar said some trees on the premises were uprooted and one door was damaged.The false ceiling in the mausoleum was also uprooted, he said.Besides, a tree fell in Mehtab Bagh and Mariam’s Maqbara, officials said.In a statement issued in Lucknow on Saturday, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief over loss of lives due to lightning and thunderstorm in Mainpuri, Agra, Lakhimpur Khiri and Muzaffarnagar districts.Officials have been directed to provide Rs 4 lakh to the kin of each of the deceased and adequate medical treatment for the injured, the statement said. The Weather department has warned of thunderstorm accompanied with lightening and squall at isolated places over the state in the next few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railing-of-taj-mahal-s-main-mausoleum-damaged-in-thunderstorm/story-iyfDRM1hOmxNPGKKZzwBSO.html
31-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: New ICMR plan for states to expand antibody tests and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.New ICMR plan for states to expand antibody testsAfter completing a pilot sero-survey (a test of the blood serum of a group of individuals) last week to check the level of exposure to the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19 in the community using Elisa-based antibody testing, the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) on Saturday sent an advisory to all states to expand the survey. Read moreElon Musk’s SpaceX ship blasts off with 2 US astronauts. Here’s what makes it specialFalcon 9, a rocket ship built by billionaire entrepreneur Elon Musk’s SpaceX, blasted off with two Americans on Saturday, ushering in a new era in commercial space travel. Read moreWatch: 80-year-old coolie at Lucknow station helping migrants for freeAn 80-year-old coolie is helping migrants in Lucknow. Mujibullah is providing free services to migrants at railway station by working 8-10 hours daily. He said that it is his ‘duty’ and it is ‘important’. Read moreLife Hacks: All you who sleep tonight…Even as authorities across the country make up their minds on whether to lift lockdown restrictions, most people remain confined to their homes. Our professional and personal lives are now taxing affairs. Read moreSara Ali Khan shows how she became ‘Sara Ka Adha’ in funny transformation video. WatchSara Ali Khan worked hard for her weight loss transformation and she loves to show it off. In her latest IGTV video, Sara has shared her journey from ‘Sara ka sara’ to ‘Sara ka aadha’. Read moreSound of silence, the stadium cutWhen the most influential career in Indian sport ended in 2013 – which momentarily felt like all of sport itself had come to a halt, like it has today – the retiree was unequivocal about what he would miss most. Read moreHow to schedule tweets on Twitter’s web appTwitter earlier this week introduced the ability to schedule tweets from its web app. This feature was previously required using other tools like Tweetdeck and Buffer. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-new-icmr-plan-for-states-to-expand-antibody-tests-and-all-the-latest-news/story-H9irQcf5LTUstqlH6KXeDJ.html
31-05-2020||India||Lockdown 4.0 deadliest, saw 247 new Covid-19 cases every hour: Report||The fourth phase of the lockdown is going to end on Sunday. The phase has been more dangerous than the first three phases, as per the number of Covid-19 cases recorded in lockdown 4.0.According to data analysis done by Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan, the country recorded 247 new Covid-19 cases every hour during the current phase of lockdown. When lockdown 3.0 ended on May 16, the number of Covid-19 cases in the country stood at 90,927. This has now increased to 1,73,763 - this means 86,422 people contracted the disease during this period.The five days towards the end of lockdown 4.0 were the deadliest, when India saw record Covid-19 cases and fatalities. On May 24, the number of new cases were 6,767, it increased to 6,977 on May 25. The number dipped to 6,560 on May 28, but again rose to 7,466 the next day.On May 30 (Saturday), India saw its highest single-day spike with 7,965 new Covid-19 cases. The number of deaths due to the Covid-19 also crossed the 5,000-mark on Saturday, reaching a grim milestone. It recorded 265 coronavirus-linked deaths on Saturday.According to a compilation of data reported by state governments, there have been 1,81,791 infections and 5,106 fatalities in the country as of Saturday. India is the ninth worst-hit nation by the Covid-19 pandemic. The number of active Covid-19 cases stood to 86,422 while 82,369 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, the Union health ministry said.Of the 265 deaths reported on Saturday, 116 were in Maharashtra, 82 in Delhi, 20 in Gujarat, 13 in Madhya Pradesh, nine in Tamil Nadu, seven in West Bengal, four each in Telangana and Rajasthan, two in Punjab and one each in Chhattisgarh, Jammu and Kashmir, Andhra Pradesh, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh.Maharashtra tops the tally with 2,098 deaths followed by Gujarat (980), Delhi (398,) Madhya Pradesh (334), West Bengal (302), Uttar Pradesh (198), Rajasthan (184), Tamil Nadu (154), Telangana (71) and Andhra Pradesh (60).Meanwhile, the health ministry said that there has been improvement in the Covid-19 situation in the country sicne the lockdown began on March 25. The ministry said that on Saturday, the doubling time of Covid-19 cases in India over the last fortnight has improved to 15.4 days from 13.3 days.“During the last 24 hours, a total of 11,264 Covid-19 patients have been cured. This is the highest number of recoveries recorded in a day,” the health ministry said in a statement on Saturday.Cumulatively, 3,612,242 tests have been done so far for Covid-19 and 126,842 samples were tested on Friday, the ministry said.There are now 942 dedicated Covid hospitals with 158,908 isolation beds, 20,608 ICU beds and 69,384 oxygen supported beds are available, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-4-0-deadliest-saw-247-new-covid-19-cases-every-hour-report/story-wFddMsp3WLFSneAoXQdc1M.html
31-05-2020||India||Highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand, tally rises to 594||Jharkhand on Saturday recorded its highest single-day spike with 72 cases of Covid-19. With this, the total number of cases have risen to 594, news agency ANI quoted state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni as saying.According to a bulletin released by the state health department on Saturday, five people have died of the disease in Jharkhand so far. The fatalities had been two from Ranchi, and one each from Koderma, Giridih and Bokaro.Altogether 5,415 travellers are under surveillance and asymptomatic while 4,027 travellers completed observation of 28 days.While 98,355 people are in various quarantine centres, 2,81,178 people are in home quarantine, the bulletin said.The recovery rate of patients in Jharkhand is 45.5 as against the national rate of 47.40 per cent. The mortality rate is 0.89 per cent as against the national rate of 2.86 per cent, the bulletin stated.So far, nearly 4.5 lakh out of nearly 7 lakh migrants have returned home in Jharkhand following the nationwide lockdown.Jharkhand Labour Minister Satyanand Bhokta on Saturday said that plans are there to employ migrant workers in loading work in colliery areas in Latehar district.He said that instead of pressing machines in the loading of coal in rakes and trucks in colliery areas, migrant workers returning from different parts of the country would be given work.He assured proper food for migrant workers staying at different quarantine centres.The Jharkhand government also hired a plane to bring back its workers from the remote Andaman and Nicobar Islands. As many as 180 migrant workers took the flight to reach Jharkhand.Migrants were flown back home from Andaman & Nicobar a day after 60 stranded workers returned to the state from Leh by a service flight arranged by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highest-single-day-spike-in-covid-19-cases-in-jharkhand-tally-rises-to-594/story-Yl3p12xtOiGJepbIwYI4tO.html
31-05-2020||India||International flight operations to remain suspended till June 30: DGCA||Indian aviation regulator DGCA on Saturday said the suspension of scheduled international commercial passenger flights will continue till midnight on June 30, hours after the Home Ministry announced fresh guidelines pertaining to the countrywide lockdown to contain the coronavirus pandemic.“It is once again reiterated that foreign airlines shall be suitably informed about the opening of their operations to or from India in due course,” the circular issued by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said. Also read: Air India pilot tests Covid-19 positive, rescue flight to Moscow turned aroundDomestic passenger flight services resumed in the country from Monday after a hiatus of two months since the lockdown was announced on March 25, when all scheduled commercial passenger flights were suspended in India. International flights continue to remain suspended even now. The Home Ministry on Saturday said ‘Unlock-1’ will be initiated in the country from June 8 under which the nationwide lockdown effectuated on March 25 will be relaxed to a great extent, including opening of shopping malls, restaurants and religious places, even as strict restrictions will remain in place till June 30 in the country’s worst pandemic-hit areas. International air travel shall remain suspended, the MHA order said, adding that a decision on when to resume it would be taken after making an assessment of the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-flight-operations-to-remain-suspended-till-june-30-dgca/story-fHdt6OE8P8bShIO6Re19QM.html
31-05-2020||India||Encounter breaks out between security forces, terrorists in J-K’s Anantnag||A gun battle erupted early on Sunday between the security forces and terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir’s Anantnag district, the police said.Kashmir Zone police said in a tweet that a joint team of police and security forces are carrying out the operation in Poshekreeri village of Anantnag. #Encounter has started at #Poshkreeri area of #Anantnag. Police and security forces are on the job. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPoliceAccording to the police, two to three terrorists are trapped. The latest encounter comes a day after two terrorists were killed in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district after security forces launched a joint operation in the area. The police have not revealed the identity of the terrorists, however, sources said that both the terrorists killed in the encounter were locals. Soon after the encounter began mobile internet was suspended in the district.Last Monday, two terrorists were killed in an encounter in the Khurd-Hanjipora area of Manzgam.Two terrorists, including Hizb-ul-Mujahedeen so-called divisional commander Junaid Sehrai, were also killed in an encounter at Nawakadal in Srinagar, while over 12 houses were damaged in the encounter. Three civilians, who were injured after a house collapsed, also died in a hospital due to burn injuries.Thirty-nine terrorists and two associates have been killed and 24 security forces personnel, including two in ceasefire violations, have also died since the lockdown to control the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) was clamped in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encounter-breaks-out-between-security-forces-terrorists-in-j-k-s-anantnag/story-MTBXO1z6bsilXyW9UY1gDJ.html
31-05-2020||India||PM Modi reaches out to people to mark 1 year of NDA 2.0||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance completed one year of its second term on Saturday, with senior party leaders such as Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and BJP president JP Nadda listing the central government’s “achievements” during the period.Marking the day, Modi addressed a letter to the citizens of the country, thanking them for their blessings, which he said helped the nation “take historic decisions and progress rapidly in the last one year”.“In 2019, the people of India voted not merely for continuity but also with a dream— of taking India to new heights. A dream of making India a global leader. The decisions taken in the last one year are directed at fulfilling this dream,” he said in the letter.Modi also shared a document on his official Twitter handle detailing the steps taken by the government for the progress and development of the country. “Have a look at the Vikas Yatra, that gives glimpses of our collective journey of development, empowerment and service,” Modi tweeted along with the document.“Responding to this massive support from the people, PM Modi and the government have started delivering on big reforms, big decisions and big ideas from day one,” the document said. “From ensuring a new dawn for Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh to historic corporate tax cuts, from empowering farmers and traders with pensions to aiding a peaceful resolution to the Ayodhya issue, Modi 2.0 has begun on a high note,” it said.Hailing Modi’s leadership, Shah said that with pro-people measures and infrastructure development, the prime minister has not only prepared a blueprint for making a strong “new India” but also a self-reliant one for the country’s “golden future”. The home minister said that during its tenure, the NDA government corrected many “historic wrongs”.“I heartily congratulate the country’s popular Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the successful one year of Modi 2.0. It has been full of historic achievements,” Shah tweetedBJP chief JP Nadda said that in the last one year, their government turned challenges into opportunities and took steps for the holistic development of the country.“This has been a year of accomplishments and we have also faced unimaginable challenges. The Prime Minister led from the front to give a vision to the country and managed the coronavirus crisis well. Starting from testing facility to developing PPE kits and ventilators in the fight against Covid-19, the country under Prime Minister Modi’s leadership is heading towards indigenous and self-reliant India. A holistic package was also announced by our government,” Nadda said at a press conference.While crediting Prime Minister Modi with bringing about a “cultural change in the political arena”, Nadda said: “What is right will be implemented and the ‘chalta hai (whatever goes)’ attitude will not be tolerated by the Modi government.”(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reaches-out-to-people-to-mark-1-year-of-nda-2-0/story-BxMzcffo4S6jhQX78PxG6H.html
31-05-2020||India||PM Modi’s Mann Ki Baat shortly, focus likely on Unlock 1||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address his monthly radio programme ‘Mann ki Baat’ at 11am on Sunday on the final day of the fourth phase of nationwide lockdown to control the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The Prime Minister’s address may focus on the relaxations being given from June 1, after more than two months of lockdown. He had announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown on March 24 as a precautionary measure to contain the infections. The lockdown was later extended thrice till May 31.The 65th edition of ‘Mann ki Baat’ comes a day after the one-year anniversary of the second term of the Modi government.The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) has issued new guidelines for phased re-opening of “all activities outside containment zones for the next one month beginning June 1”.India had witnessed the highest-ever single day spike of 7,964 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the country’s tally to 173,763, according to the Union health ministry. With as many as 265 fatalities reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll due to the virus now stands at 4,971. Out of the total number of Covid-19 infections, 86,422 are active cases and 82,370 have been cured or discharged.The Prime Minister had focused on the situation prevailing in the country due to the coronavirus pandemic in his last ‘Mann Ki Baat’ programme and urged people to help the poor, migrants and needy during the lockdown.PM Modi had said that India’s fight against the coronavirus disease is “people-driven” and is being fought by the masses and the administration hand in hand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-mann-ki-baat-at-11am-today-focus-likely-on-unlock-1/story-a0ytGAY1I4dG3F9BSe6KGN.html
31-05-2020||India||Over 40k Indians repatriated: Foreign Ministry lists achievements||The external affairs ministry has facilitated the return of more than 40,000 Indians stranded around the globe due to the Covid-19 pandemic and overseen the provision of coronavirus-related medical supplies to more than 150 countries.The stranded Indians were repatriated in more than 230 flights and on naval warships, while Indian medical rapid response teams were also deployed to several countries to help in the fight against Covid-19.These were among the achievements listed by the external affairs ministry during the first year of the second term of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government.The advent of coronavirus-era diplomacy saw India taking the lead to organise a video conference of leaders of South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation states and the creation of the Covid-19 Emergency Fund. More than 100 virtual diplomatic meetings have been held to share perspectives on combating the virus and tackling the post-pandemic challenges, while India has also organised Covid-19-related healthcare courses through its e-Indian Technical and Economic Cooperation (e-ITEC) programme under ministry’s development partnership initiative.Before normal diplomatic engagements were hit by the pandemic, India helped launch several projects under its “Neighbourhood First” policy, including the 720-MW Mangdechhu hydropower project in Bhutan, the Motihari-Amlekhgunj cross-border petroleum products pipeline and an integrated check post at Biratnagar for Nepal and an emergency ambulance service and cultural centre in Jaffna for Sri Lanka, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-40k-indians-repatriated-foreign-ministry-lists-achievements/story-f4uiKNrmVCa63NCyNzp8UI.html
31-05-2020||India||In Assam, blowout of natural gas well still to be controlled, over 700 evacuated||The natural gas well operated by Oil India Limited (OIL) in Assam’s Tinsukia district that witnessed a blowout on Wednesday continued to spill out gas and condensate matter for the fourth day on Saturday as authorities continued efforts to bring it under control.Over 700 people residing within 1.5 km radius of the well located in Baghjan area have been shifted to three camps amid concerns that the continuous spilling of gas and condensate matter containing oil could affect residents as well as the area located near the Dibru Saikhowa National Park.A blowout is uncontrolled release of crude oil or gas from a well when the pressure control systems fail. Condensate is a low density high gravity hydrocarbon phase that is generally found along with natural gas.ALSO READ | Oil India reports blow out at well in Assam, at least 25 families evacuated“My house is located around 1.5 km from the well. Condensate from the blowout which is carried by air is falling on trees and homes of people in the area including my house. In addition, the sound produced by the blowout, which is like a huge storm, is also affecting residents,” Madhab Moran, a resident of Baghjan said. According to a statement by OIL on May 27, the blowout happened at the Baghjan 5 well at 10:30 am while work was underway to produce gas from a new oil and gas bearing reservoir at a depth of 3729 metres. OIL officials say that it could take more than two days to start work on controlling the well.There’s fear among residents and environment enthusiasts that the blowout if not controlled soon could have lasting effect on the area and its residents. The carcass of a Gangetic dolphin, an endangered species, was found in Maguri wetland close to the OIL well.“The dolphin didn’t have any injury marks and its skin had peeled off. People have noticed oil in Maguri wetlands, which could have spilled from the OIL well. Because of the blowout there’s a layer of oil like substance dripping from trees and roofs of houses in the area,” said Binanda Hatibarua, a bird enthusiast who stays close to the well and visited the site.OIL officials said though the process to contain the blowout is underway several measures have to be put in place before the actual operation can be started. They include ensuring adequate supply of water, proper lighting and transportation of heavy equipment to the site.“A lot of preliminary work needs to be done to enter the well site. We are doing that and it would take at least another two days to reach the well and try and contain it,” said OIL spokesperson Tridiv Hazarika.On Friday, Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal called union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan and urged him to take immediate remedial measures to bring the situation under control.OIL had issued a statement on Friday that food and logistic support is being provided to the residents who have been shifted to camps and that continuous monitoring is underway to minimize any environmental impact.Earlier, on May 11, the union forest, environment and climate change ministry had given environmental clearance for extension drilling and testing of hydrocarbons at seven locations by OIL under the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park area in Tinsukia district of Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-assam-blowout-of-natural-gas-well-still-to-be-controlled-over-700-evacuated/story-DOCrUaEqgNqfHgrpRvcX5L.html
31-05-2020||India||IMD, Skymet Weather differ on monsoon arrival||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday reiterated the monsoon is likely to arrive in Kerala only around June 1 after private weather forecaster Skymet Weather announced it has already arrived in the state earlier than expected. It called the forecaster’s information incorrect. Skymet maintained the criteria including for the rainfall has been met. IMD director general M Mohapatra said the criteria is yet to be met. “We have a very objective way of assessing monsoon onset and we stand by our forecast of monsoon onset around June 1. It could be June 1 or 2 depending on the parameters... Even the rainfall criteria have not been met today [Saturday].”IMD on Thursday said the monsoon was likely to arrive in Kerala, which marks the beginning of the four-month rainy season when India receives 70% of its annual rainfall, around its normal onset date of June 1. It said there were new developing patterns that could speed up the progress of the rain system. IMD on May 15 said the onset was likely to be delayed by four days and the monsoon was expected to arrive on June 5.The monsoon normally sets in over Kerala around June 1 and advances northwards, usually in surges, and covers the entire country around July 15.IMD criteria specifies the onset is determined if, after May 10, 60% of 14 weather stations in Lakshadweep, Kerala and Coastal Karnataka report rainfall of 2.5 mm or more for two consecutive days, high wind speed, low outgoing longwave radiation (OLR), etc. It also specifies a wind depth parameter. Skymet Weather’s vice president (climate and meteorology) Mahesh Palawat said they have over a hundred automatic weather stations in Kerala. “...we are seeing that the rainfall criteria has been met. The wind profile is westerly and OLR criteria have also been met. IMD may declare monsoon onset later but we announced today [Saturday] because all parameters are fulfilled.”Union earth sciences ministry secretary M Rajeevan echoed Mohapatra. “The news about monsoon onset over Kerala in social media is not correct. Monsoon has not arrived over Kerala. Follow Indiametdept for authentic information. The greatest enemy of knowledge is not ignorance, it is illusion of knowledge—Stephen Hawking,” he tweeted.National Weather Forecasting Centre head K Sathi Devi said it is not only rainfall, even the wind depth parameter has to be met. “The wind speed should be very high and there should be a lot of clouding. We are expecting a low-pressure area to form over the south-east Arabian Sea which will lead to all parameters being met. Currently, what we are seeing in Kerala are pre-monsoon showers.”IMD said conditions were becoming favourable for further advance of the monsoon into some more parts of south Arabian Sea, Maldives-Comorin area, south-west and the south-east Bay of Bengal during the next 24 hours. A low-pressure area was very likely to form over south-east and adjoining east-central Arabian Sea during the next 48 hours. It is very likely to move northwestwards and concentrate into a depression over east-central and adjoining south-east the Arabian Sea during subsequent 48 hours. Under its influence, conditions are likely to become favourable for onset of the monsoon over Kerala around June 1, IMD said in its Saturday bulletin.IMD’s forecasts provide information to at least 700 million people in India, who are dependent on agriculture for livelihood. The monsoon is crucial for the yield of rice, wheat, sugarcane, and oilseeds in a country where farming accounts for about 15% of the economy but employs over half of its people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-skymet-differ-on-monsoon/story-p1YpeHYKKlPobT1x0u6LnI.html
31-05-2020||India||Dialogue on with China over LAC, no compromise on dignity: Rajnath Singh||India and China are talking to each other at military and diplomatic levels to resolve the weeks-long Ladakh standoff, defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Saturday assuring the country that the government will not allow India’s dignity to be hurt under any circumstances.“India’s policy has been very clear that we should have good relations with all neighbours. This has been a long-standing effort. But sometimes, circumstances arise with China and things like this happen,” he told news channel Aaj Tak in an interview.Singh’s statement is the first from a senior central minister on the standoff with China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) that threatens to plunge the bilateral relationship to a new low.China has marshalled close to 5,000 soldiers and deployed tanks and artillery guns on its side of the disputed border in the Ladakh sector where India has also sent military reinforcements and matched the neighbour’s military moves, as reported by Hindustan Times on May 26.Chinese troops are also holding positions on their side of the border in north Sikkim where soldiers of the two countries were involved in a nasty brawl on May 9 that left seven Chinese and four Indian soldiers injured, as first reported by Hindustan Times.“The Chinese troops are camping on their side and have been carrying out patrols. Some air activity has also been observed. We are on our side but there is no face-off,” officials said.Indian and Chinese soldiers are eyeball-to-eyeball at four locations along the LAC in eastern Ladakh and several rounds of talks between local military commanders have failed to end the standoff that began with a violent confrontation between rival patrols on May 5-6 near Pangong Tso.China’s state-run media has described the latest tensions as the worst since the 2017 Doklam standoff that lasted 73 days.The defence minister also referred to the 2017 Doklam face-off in the interview. “It appeared at that time that the situation was very tense. But we did not step back… Ultimately, we were able to resolve the situation,” he said.Singh said both countries had made it clear that they wanted to resolve the problem. He also underlined that there was no need for the United States to meditate since the two countries already had a mechanism to resolve problems and it had been set in motion.China has also rejected the US offer to mediate between the two sides to break the stalemate.Former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd) said, “It’s a positive that things haven’t escalated in the past few days. But I think we are in for a period of intense negotiation. I see it as a little more complicated than Doklam.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dialogue-on-with-china-over-lac-no-compromise-on-dignity-rajnath/story-jWCf7hoyNcMRjsGGG2XPrN.html
31-05-2020||India||Amid Ladakh standoff, 12,000 workers to be moved to complete projects near China border||The defence ministry has sought 11 special trains to move workers from Jharkhand to Jammu and Chandigarh from where they will be taken to areas close to the China border for building roads, three officials familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. The move comes even as Indian and Chinese soldiers are eyeball to eyeball at four locations along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh. “There is no question of halting work on the road projects because of the standoff that could go on for weeks. The working season has begun and we cannot waste time,” said one of the officials cited above. He said some work has already started on the strategic Darbuk-Shyok-Daulet Beg Oldie road in Ladakh.A second official said 11,815 workers will be transported on the 11 trains, and then be ferried to border areas in Ladakh and Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, where the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) is constructing important roads. The Union home ministry asked the railway ministry on May 22 to arrange the special trains from Jharkhand to Jammu and Chandigarh, said the second official.This person said Union home minister Amit Shah discussed the issue of workers with Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Thursday when he spoke to chief ministers about the next phase of India’s exit from the ongoing lockdown. “Most of the workers are from Dumka. The state government will let the Centre know when they can go and work in the border areas.”Home ministry officials said the trains will be operated as per the standard operating procedures dated May 19 on the movement of stranded workers during the lockdown. China has marshalled close to 5,000 soldiers and deployed tanks and artillery guns on its side of the disputed border in the Ladakh sector where India has also sent military reinforcements.HT on April 28 reported BRO’s plans to induct up to 40,000 workers to carry out the construction of key roads and tunnels in far-flung areas in the forward areas along the China border despite the Covid-19 pandemic.“Infrastructure development along the border areas is an important requirement for both military and civilian purposes. Infrastructure building in our areas will continue as per the plan,” said Lt Gen SL Narasimhan (retd), a top China expert and a National Security Advisory Board member.The Ladakh administration wrote to BRO on May 15 saying it has no objection to the labour force being inducted for work in the forward areas. It said the workers will be quarantined for 14 days after they arrive in Ladakh and social distancing norms will be strictly followed during the construction work. BRO’s peak working season extends from May to November. Migrant workers are a key part of the organisation’s workforce involved in building strategic roads in Ladakh, Jammu & Kashmir, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim. It plans to complete all 61 strategic roads assigned to it along the China border by December 2022 to allow swifter mobilisation of troops and stores to forward areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/labourers-from-j-khand-to-lay-roads-on-china-border/story-1Hyh3KBaBwgEZ9eK5KhuFM.html
31-05-2020||India||Govt at war with its own people, says Congress||The Congress on Saturday called Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s first year of his second term in office as a period of “disappointment, disastrous management, and diabolical pain”. It said that at the end of its six years in power, it appears that the Modi government is “at war with its people, inflicting wounds instead of healing them”. “Over the last six years, India witnessed a steady increase in the politics of distraction and false noise,” said Congress general secretary KC Venugopal. “Never before has a government been so at odds with itself and its own people. India was the beacon of democracy in the region but now under the Modi government, we risk becoming a cautionary tale.”The Congress called it somewhat surprising that the Bharatiya Janata Party still has not grasped the most fundamental lesson of governance in a democracy. “We are elected to serve, listen, protect and uplift. Not to divide, mislead and distract,” said Venugopal as the Modi government completed the first year of his second term in office on Saturday.The Congress said Modi came to power promising 20 million jobs annually in 2014, but India has witnessed the highest unemployment rate in the last 45 years in 2017-18. It added after Covid-19 wrecked the Indian economy, the unemployment rate has soared to an unprecedented 27.11%.The Congress said the GDP under the Modi government has become synonymous with “Grossly Declining Performance” and alleged that the economy had been mismanaged to the point of ruin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-at-war-with-its-own-people-cong/story-dDYMeB2gdCoEjOcB2hcufO.html
31-05-2020||India||Vulnerable neglected in Covid-19 lockdown: Study||Many marginalised groups have been neglected during the Covid-19 lockdown in India, a Delhi based non-profit organisation has said in a report based on its analysis of around 700 orders, circulars and advisories issued by the Centre and states on policies for informal sector workers. The report cited their timeline and said it reveals an “ad-hoc” and “unplanned implementation” of the lockdown” imposed in March to check the pandemic’s spread.The National Institute of Disaster Management (NIDM), which comes under the Union home ministry, has endorsed the report by the Indo-Global Social Service Society (IGSSS). The ministry is the country’s nodal agency for disaster management.MHA officials were not immediately available for a response.The report is based on the Centre’s 175 orders/circulars as well as 500 orders by 28 states and Delhi until May 1. It said out of the 175 orders, only 27 were directly related to urban poor and marginal groups. The report added only 12 of them were relevant to the informal sector workers.The report said not a single order of states or the Centre had any provision for “waste pickers” while only Kerala sought to provide assistance to “transgenders”. It added Meghalaya was the only state to make special provisions for domestic workers, saying they should be given their wages and not laid off.The report said only 12 states like Arunachal Pradesh, Delhi, Jharkhand, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan and Tripura had specific provisions for the homeless. Just 11 states talked about street vendors in their communications, it added.The report referred to “unplanned implementation of the lockdown” based on analysis of these orders/circulars. “From the first case on January 30 that was reported in Kerala to the March 24 [when the lockdown was announced], there were not many circulars or guidelines that were released not just for informal sector workers and marginal population but for the whole country, suggesting a limbo in planning and forethought at the then-impending crisis,” the report said.It said the Janata Curfew on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call on March 22 for social isolation to curb the Covid-19 spread and the announcement for the lockdown two days later surprised the urban poor and migrants. The reports said they were not warned of the restrictions and thus triggered a wave of migration to shelter and transit points.The report said some states--Delhi, Arunachal Pradesh, Kerala, Meghalaya and Rajasthan--did better vis-a-vis groups like street vendors, domestic workers, construction workers, the homeless and transgenders than the Centre.It added certain ministries dealing with problems related to food, jobs and shelter for urban poor directly like ministries of labour and housing were “mostly quiet”. It added the Union home and health ministries did most of the work. The report said central labour and housing ministries issued just two orders each till May 1.“The orders have been particularly silent on the issue of inclusion. Though ministry of social justice has come forth with many notifications, there could have been a more concerted focus on the marginal groups that might fail to get their benefits in the times of crisis,” the report said. “There has been no mention of transgenders, Dalits and minorities in any of the circulars specifically.”Aravind Unni, who manages IGSSS’s team that studied the circulars/orders, said the first two stages of the lockdown showed a huge gap in the understanding of informal sector livelihoods. “All the orders/notifications came after a major crisis had already erupted.”Unni added domestic workers, waste pickers, homeless, street vendors and transgenders especially were completely ignored. “For example, street vendors were not given safety shields and police harassed them while kirana [grocery] stores’ sales were streamlined through repeated orders. Similarly, e-commerce websites were allowed to deliver essential items and others. This is in contradiction with Prime Minister’s ‘vocal for local’ call because street vendors are the most local source [of products] in India.”Shalini Sinha – India Country Director of WIEGO (Women in Informal Employment: Globalizing and Organizing), said – “The waste pickers are the frontline of defense against spread of Covid-19 as they are managing the city’s waste while exposing themselves to disease and infection. Many have lost their livelihood as they are not allowed to work during lockdown. They should get benefits of government schemes but they are almost invisible in the system. Governments, while creating any SOPs (standard operating protocols) should integrate them”. Sinha, as part of Delhi Roundtable, a network of activists and organisations, wrote to Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal asking government to take care of waste pickers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vulnerable-neglected-in-lockdown-study/story-LIlBDfdKQDzyscX983MfOJ.html
31-05-2020||India||States flag missing details of returning migrant workers||The missing details of many homebound migrant workers -- their age, gender, home address and mobile phone numbers -- has emerged an area of concern for states receiving them in the midst of the coronavirus disease pandemic. The issue has been flagged in recent meetings between the central and state governments.As millions of daily-wage workers who lost their livelihoods in the aftermath of the Covid-19 lockdown travel by Shramik Special trains to their states of domicile, a protocol has been put in place for transporting and handling the workers. Among many aspects of the protocol is one that pertains to making a special chart of all such passengers.The chart is required to contain the names of all passengers and other details, and when a train arrives at its destination, it is handed over to authorities of the state receiving them. But amid the pressure of handling the teeming number of homebound workers, these details, vital for keeping tabs on the health of the returnees, sometimes go missing.At recent meetings between the Centre and the states on the migrant workers, at least three states flagged the problem, officials aware of the matter said on condition of anonymity.“The majority of the workers are sent back to their villages and only those who show visible symptoms of Covid-19 are immediately sent to quarantine centres. As millions of migrant workers spread out across the states, it is important to maintain a database and know their coordinates,” said one official who was present in a few of the Centre-state meetings by video conferencing.Apart from the health concerns, the preparation of any plan for the welfare of the migrant workers also hinges on their whereabouts. The Centre is mapping districts that have received a large number of migrant workers to make any future plans for targeted welfare and employments programmes.“Whenever these coordinates or manifestations are insufficient, the states are making noise. The preparation of chart is not just the responsibility of Indian Railways, but also requires an active role of the despatching states,” said a second official.Until Thursday, 3,840 Shramik Specials had brought back 4.71 million migrant labourers to their states of domicile.In a meeting between cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba and the states on Thursday, the Centre told states that are major recipients of homebound migrant workers to be extra cautious in monitoring the health of the returnees, officials said. All states were told to ensure strict enforcement of containment zones amid growing worries about the spread of the virus.Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Delhi and Tamil Nadu are the key states from where the migrants are setting out. The major recipients are Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-flag-missing-details-of-returning-migrant-workers/story-xnNQi1H7LfXmhTz9pPUhGJ.html
31-05-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 deaths cross 5,000, but rate lower than elsewhere||The number of deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India crossed the 5,000 mark on Saturday, reaching a grim milestone, but with a fatality rate, which at 2.8% is much lower than the global 6%, there is hope that the outbreak in the country may not be as deadly as it has been in many countries, perhaps highlighting some of the gains from the nationwide lockdown. Meanwhile, the recovery rate in India improved to 47% on Saturday, up 5 percentage points from just a week ago. The country’s top experts said keeping fatalities down by focussing on health care facilities will now be the most crucial strategy to deal with the pandemic across the country, where the outbreak has largely taken hold and a rise in the number of infections is inevitable. According to a compilation of data reported by state governments, there have been 181,791 infections and 5,106 fatalities in the country as of Saturday. India took 79 days to record these many deaths, while some of the major Covid-19 hotspot – such United States, United Kingdom, Spain and Italy – took less than a third of this duration to rack up similar counts.“My concern is more about mortality than the cases. Our population is such that we will have more cases than other countries, but if our hospitals don’t get completely overrun and mortality remains low, as is happening in Tamil Nadu, then we’re in a good place,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences. The mortality ratio in Tamil Nadu is less than 1% due to what experts say is an aggressive containment strategy by the state which has always had high quality public health care. “The number of cases will definitely increase, given our large population, and high mobility. Even if we touch a large number, if we are able to save the health system and isolate the majority of people with mild symptoms at home or in Covid Care Facilities, and the mortality is not high, we are fine,” added Dr Guleria.According to the Union health ministry on Saturday, the doubling time of coronavirus cases in India over the last fortnight has improved to 15.4 days from 13.3 days. “During the last 24 hours, a total of 11,264 Covid-19 patients have been cured. This is the highest number of recoveries recorded in a day,” the Union health ministry said in a statement. The move comes after the government changed its discharge policy. “When we realised that our patients are recovering sooner, then after looking at the data we decided that we can discharge the mild cases sooner. Our discharges have accelerated after the new discharge policy,” said Dr VK Paul, member of NITI Aayog, in a press briefing on Thursday.Cumulatively, 3,612,242 tests have been done so far for Covid-19 and 126,842 samples were tested on Friday, the ministry said.There are now 942 dedicated Covid hospitals with 158,908 isolation beds, 20,608 ICU beds and 69,384 oxygen supported beds are available, it added. Fatalities recorded a sharp increase in countries like Spain and Italy, and New York city, where hospitals were overwhelmed after a sudden spike in infections. Most of these regions enforced varying degrees of lockdowns after cases began to spike, compared to India that adopted such restrictions early on. “Two things worked in our favour: the young demographic and early implementation of lockdown before cases exploded, helping flatten the curve and prevent deaths,” said Dr Ambarish Dutta, associate professor of epidemiology and public health, Indian Institute of Public Health-Bhubaneswar.India went under a sweeping, unprecedented lockdown on March 25 when people were banned from stepping out of their homes for any purpose except for a handful of essential or emergency reasons. At the time, the number of cases in the country was 602, and deaths, 12. The curbs have slowly been relaxed in the months since, with the government announcing on Saturday a phased unlock plan from June.“Around 9% of India’s population is over the age of 60, compared to 28% in Italy, which recorded a high number of deaths. In most countries, 40% deaths happened in care homes, which have a concentration of older persons, who are most vulnerable. Young people get less severe disease and are also less likely to get infected but when coronavirus spreads to a cluster of older people living together, it’s dangerous,” Dr Dutta added.But India’s population patterns are also what add to risks in the country, he added. “What is working against us is unimaginably high urban density, which has led to clusters in Mumbai, Delhi, Ahmedabad, and Chennai. In urban slums and transport, social distancing is not possible and cases will go up, but most of the migrant population in slums is young and able to fight the virus,” he said.In other countries where infections have peaked, deaths could have come down because of the “harvesting effect”, which is an epidemiological term used to describe the vulnerable dying very quickly and making the death rate peak, after which it goes down, Dutta added.The health ministry reiterated on Saturday that all precautions must be taken while “living with the new normal” of Covid-19. These include physical distancing at public places and workplaces, frequent hand washing and use of masks or face covers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-deaths-cross-5-000-but-rate-lower-than-elsewhere/story-lSppquenUOXjoBnaoCQ6eL.html
31-05-2020||India||After Covid-19 lockdown, plan to unlock India in phases||Places of worship, shopping malls, and hotels and restaurants can open from June 8, the Union home ministry said on Saturday, releasing details of the first of a three-phase plan aimed at lifting stringent restrictions imposed over two months ago to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The plan, called Unlock 1.0, also removes restrictions on inter- and intra-state travel. After spending almost a fifth of the year (68 days) locked down, India and Indians can resume normal activities again — albeit with significant safeguards. The coronavirus disease has gathered momentum in May. India ended Saturday with 181,791 cases and 5,106 deaths. The fatality rate in India remains much lower than the global fatality rate, and experts agree that the lockdown has pushed back the peak of infections, giving the country time to strengthen its health care infrastructure. “All activities that were prohibited earlier will be opened up in areas outside Containment Zones in a phased manner, with the stipulation of following Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), to be prescribed by the Health Ministry,” a government statement said. It said the plan will have an “economic focus”, as the government looks to bring stalled businesses and activities back on track and revive the third largest economy in Asia that is in the grip of a slowdown due to the impact of Covid-19 and the lockdown prompted by the pandemic.Though the new guidelines will come into effect from Monday, places of worship (large religious gatherings are still not allowed), shopping malls, and hotels and restaurants (but not bars) will resume operations beginning June 8. In the second phase, the government plans to reopen all educational institutes including schools and colleges, after holding discussions with states and Union Territories (UTs), who can hold further talks with parents and other stakeholders. A decision is likely in July.International air travel, metro rail services, cinema halls, gyms, swimming pools, bars, entertainment parks, and auditoriums will remain closed and open only in the third phase. Large gatherings, including social, political, religious, and sporting events are also banned for now. The third phase of the un-lockdown plan will focus on the resumption of these activities. No date, however, has been set for this. All activities mentioned in the three phases of the plan have been banned since March 25, when a nationwide lockdown was imposed for the first time.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has called a meeting of top officials on Sunday to finalise the Capital’s lockdown rules. “The central government has issued a basic framework for unlocking more services and utilities...A call will be taken on Sunday on issues such as opening of malls on an alternate basis or entirely, allowing dine-in service in restaurants, and opening of hotels, salons and spas, among others,” a state government spokesperson said. In another significant step, the Union government has relaxed the night curfew prohibiting non-essential travel. The ban on such movement will be between 9pm and 5am. Previously, it was between 7pm and 7am.Containment zones, which can be termed the epicentre of an infection, will continue to be under a hard lockdown at least till June 30, the home ministry guidelines said. Only essential activities will be allowed in these areas and strict perimeter control will ensure that people cannot move in or out except for medical emergencies and essential supplies. The Centre has empowered states/UTs to identify containment zones in accordance with health ministry guidelines. Local authorities can also identify buffer zones, which are areas adjoining containment zones, and impose restrictions.The guidelines said there shall be no restriction on the movement of persons and goods between two states and within a state, and that no special permission is required for such transport. However, states/UTs may prohibit certain activities outside containment zones based on their assessment, but they are not allowed to dilute the federal guidelines.“I would urge you to ensure compliance of the new guidelines, and direct all concerned authorities for their strict implementation,” Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla said in a letter to states. He drew their attention specifically to the second phase that deals with the opening of schools and colleges, and asked them to send their feedback.Like the previous guidelines, the fresh one too advises people above 65, children below 10, pregnant women and those with underlying health conditions to stay indoors. The government has reiterated its advice for downloading the contact-tracing Aarogya Setu app, saying it “enables early identification of potential risk of infection”. In a section termed “National Directives for Covid-19 Management”, the guidelines said face covers are mandatory in public places, asked people to maintain a distance of at least six feet, and reiterated that spitting and the consumption of paan, gutkha, tobacco and liquor in public places are not allowed. Weddings can be held with a maximum 50 guests and funerals with 20 people in attendance, according to the guidelines. Though there are no restrictions on offices, they have been asked to promote the idea of working from home as far as possible and put emphasis on staggered work hours.“With a view on ensuring safety in offices and work places, employers on best effort basis should ensure that Aarogya Setu is installed by all employees having compatible mobile phones,” the guidelines said. The fresh rules have been drafted after telephonic conversations between home minister Amit Shah and chief ministers. On Friday, Shah met Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the suggestions by states.The nationwide lockdown — the first phase was imposed on March 25 for 21 days — has been extended thrice. The second and the third phases of the curbs — beginning April 15 and May 4 — lasted 19 days and 14 days, respectively. The fourth phase, which began on May 18, ends on Sunday. That works out to a total of 68 days of being locked down. The government has so far allowed the functioning of public and private offices in a graded manner, resumed limited passenger train services and domestic air travel, and also allowed the conditional reopening of shops and marketplaces except those in malls. Restrictions on public transport too have been considerably eased.“We welcome the announcement by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to allow shopping centres, malls to open starting 8th of June,” Amitabh Taneja, chairman, Shopping Centres Association of India, said in a statement.Shiladitya and Debaditya Chaudhury, co-founders of Oudh 1590, Chapter 2 and Master Dimsum — three popular Kolkata restaurants, said: “We welcome the decision of the MHA regarding opening of restaurants. We are working on a stringent SOP adhering to contact less dining and maintaining social distancing norms, which we will be announced soon...”(With inputs from HTC in Kolkata)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-lockdown-plan-to-unlock-india-in-phases/story-vsK1wGQ7moLTMjlKkUelHP.html
31-05-2020||India||Covid: Only masks, distancing and isolation can prevent a July-August surge||With coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases projected to rise through June and July, enforcing the use of masks and social distancing norms and isolating everyone with cough and fever is the only protection against infection. Community participation in the enforcement of masks, self-quarantine and isolation of everyone with symptoms of Covid-19 even without testing is the way forward, experts say.Increasing mobility and more cases being identified outside large clusters is making contact tracing and containment a challenge, which calls for an urgent change in strategy. “The numbers will spike. The only way you can decrease the numbers from spiking is by aggressive isolation, community participation in terms of very strict wearing of masks, social distancing and hand-washing. There’s lockdown fatigue now, people have got fed up, they don’t seem to be bothered (about infection spreading), and my fear is that people don’t realise what we are headed for. There are still people who are dying, and the pandemic is yet to peak,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, professor of pulmonology, and director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi.Also read| N-95 masks protect users, not those around: Experts“My concern is more about mortality than the cases. Our population is such that we will have more cases than other countries, but if our hospitals don’t get completely overrun and mortality remains low, as is happening in Tamil Nadu, then we’re in a good place,” said Guleria. Despite a high number of cases, Tamil Nadu has a death rate of less than 1% because of the state’s aggressive testing and containment programme. All states have to scale up testing and widen community surveillance. “When there are large numbers, along with mobility, containment is difficult. We can do symptom-based syndromic surveillance of households for community testing using community volunteers, but stigma has to be removed,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India. Technology can help amplify the coverage and accelerate contact tracing where physical visits are not possible.“In my mind, we have reached a stage where we will not be able to sustain the lockdown in its current form for a long period of time. People will now not be able to stay cooped up indoors. We will need measures like malls and restaurants still being shut, but gradually opening up for businesses. I don’t see schools opening in the next four to six weeks. Schools usually open in the first week of July, so most likely in the first week of August,” said Dr Guleria.The biggest concern is what happens when things open up. “We need to aggressively work on asking people with even mild symptoms of cough and fever to quarantine and isolate themselves even if they don’t get tested. Of course, testing must be expanded because it gives you an idea of how things are and whether new clusters are emerging, but even if testing is low, the strategy must be that people self-quarantine if they have symptoms,” said Dr Guleria.With most modelling studies saying the pandemic will peak in India in late July or mid August, protection measures must be closely followed for protection. “I think it’ll (pandemic peak) probably be a little earlier, I would say July, but most of the mathematical predictors have pushed it to August,” said Dr Guleria.Experts say it’s tough to predict how cases on average will be recorded every day when the pandemic peaks. “Mathematical modelling is hard, but with Covid-19, it is even harder. There are too many unknowns and evolving parameters,” tweeted professor Madhukar Pai, Canada research chair in epidemiology and global health at McGill University, Montreal, Canada. Among the challenges Pai has listed are Covid-19 being an unknown novel disease, the R-0 (R-nought is the basic reproductive ratio or the number of infections from a single case) not being static, changing testing rates, no clarity on natural protective immunity or percentage of population infected, varied durations of infectiveness, asymptomatic transmission, and other unknowns including the number of people who come in contact with a case, human behaviour and effectiveness of lockdowns and restrictions, among others.“The number of cases will definitely increase, given our large population, and high mobility. Even if we touch a large number, if we are able to save the health system and isolate the majority of people with mild symptoms at home or in Covid care facilities, and the mortality is not high, we are fine,” said Dr Guleria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-masks-distancing-and-isolation-can-prevent-a-july-august-surge/story-OUP4bBoo7rTDIfju5H1tQI.html
31-05-2020||India||1,000 shifted amid Assam OIL well blowout||Around 1,000 people have been evacuated from the vicinity of an Oil India Limited (OIL)-operated well at Baghjan in Assam’s Tinsukia as natural gas and condensate matter continued to leak from it for the fourth day on Saturday following a blowout on Wednesday even as authorities continued efforts to bring the situation under control. The well is located near the Dibru Saikhowa National Park, which is home to endangered species like Gangetic dolphin.Residents said the blowout could have long term consequences for the area, its residents as well as flora and fauna. The recovery of a Gangetic dolphin’s carcass in the Maguri wetland close to the well has heightened these fears.“The dolphin did not have any injury marks and its skin was peeled off. People have noticed oil in Maguri wetland, which could have spilled from the well. Because of the blowout, there is a layer of oil like substance dripping from trees and roofs of houses in the area,” said Binanda Hatibarua, who lives near the well and visited the site.Tinsukia deputy commissioner Bhaskar Pegu said the Park’s core area is located around 1 km from the well and there is no threat to it. “But the eco-sensitive zone outside the park is located around 300 metres away from the site of the blowout and we have got reports that oil condensate have fallen on the wetlands in that area,” he said. The evacuees have been shifted to three camps from an area spread over a 1.5 km radius. Madhab Moran, a Baghjan resident, said his house is located around 1.5 km from the well and the condensate has been falling on trees and homes in the area including his. He said the blowout produced a storm-like sound. Officials said a blowout means uncontrolled release of crude oil or gas from a well when pressure control systems fail. Condensate is a low density, high gravity hydrocarbon generally found with natural gas.In a statement, OIL said the blowout happened while work was underway to produce gas from new oil and gas-bearing reservoir at a depth of 3,729 metres. It said food and other support was being provided to the evacuees and that continuous monitoring is underway to minimise any environmental impact.OIL officials said the process to contain the leakage was underway and measures like adequate water supply, proper lighting, and transportation of heavy equipment to the site have to be put in place before the actual operation to control it can be started. “A lot of preliminary work needs to be done to enter the well site. We are doing that and it would take at least another two days to reach the well and try and contain it,” said OIL spokesman Tridiv Hazarika.Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Friday called Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan and urged him to take immediate remedial measures to bring the situation under control.On May 11, the union forest, environment and climate change ministry had given environmental clearance for extension drilling and testing of hydrocarbons at seven locations by OIL under Dibru-Saikhowa National Park area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1k-shifted-amid-assam-well-blowout/story-ZPjqgbwDkzOQa4KjKqsqWL.html
31-05-2020||India||Detailed guidelines being readied for reopening schools, colleges, says HRD||The Union human resource development (HRD) ministry is readying elaborate guidelines to be followed when schools and universities reopen and are likely to include tie-ups with health facilities, screening mechanisms and protocols in case a student reports even a mild symptom, officials aware of the matter said. The guidelines are also likely to seek blended learning with some students attending classes from home and will also relate to issues like hygiene in hostels, kitchens, and common areas.The Centre on Saturday said educational institutions, which were closed in March when the lockdown to check the Covid-19 pandemic was imposed, will be opened only after discussions with states and Union Territories. A decision in this regard is expected to be taken in July after consultations with parents and teachers as well.The Centre said the educational institutes will be reopened in a “phased” manner outside containment zones.HRD ministry officials said they will finalise the guidelines after discussions with the health and home ministries. According to the Home Ministry order, the health ministry will prepare standard operating procedures in this regard.“It is an issue involving the safety of children and other students. Protocols have to be set. What should be a school’s response, say if a child reports a mild headache or a fever. What should be the guidelines for residential schools? Transport mechanism, regular school activities, each and every aspect has to be examined before a comprehensive framework is ready,” said an official on condition of anonymity.Officials said there will be an emphasis on ensuring tie-ups with hospitals as well as adequate quarantine facilities, especially in boarding schools. The National Council for Education, Research and Training has suggested shifts for students, curtailing group activities involving use of common instruments or equipment.Officials said social distancing will have to be maintained when students return to schools. For hostels, there will be a greater distance in dormitories and only two students may share a room, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/detailed-guidelines-being-readied-for-reopening-schools-colleges-says-hrd/story-XIa3Sii0EzPIXj99TdSFeO.html
31-05-2020||India||Math model may help map Covid-19 trajectory in India||India will soon have a so-called super (mathematical) model for Covid-19 that can shed light on the likely trajectory of the pandemic in India, including details of when and where it is most likely to spread; its crests and troughs; and the number of ICU beds and ventilators that may be needed. The Department of Science and Technology (DST) has started work on a Covid-19 “Indian National Supermodel” to help monitor the future transmission of infection, thus aiding decisions involving the readiness of the health system and other mitigation measures, the ministry of science and technology said on Saturday. Numerous mathematical models for Covid-19 forecasting and surveillance are being worked out by investigators funded by DST-SERB (Science and Engineering Research Board) and other agencies.Professor M Vidyasagar, fellow of SERB and national professor at IIT Hyderabad said “We have been asked to deliver on four things—fine grained spatio-temporal progression of Covid 19; medical inventory prediction which includes how many PPE (kits), how many ventilators, are needed ; policies like non pharmaceutical interventions and economic optimization such as working with a reduced workforce.”The team is likely to present its initial findings based on the super model by end of June. Professor Vidyasagar said the team will be looking at models used in Europe, US and other countries and validate them . “The model will entirely rely only on the data that is relevant to Covid 19, and also have an adaptive built-in component to learn from the newer trends in the data. It will aggregate successful evidence-based mathematical and statistical forecasting models and include the best predictive analytics for robust forecasting of infectious disease spread. The supermodel could be used by the policymakers in India and around the world to overcome difficulties in predicting the rate of spread of infection and how it would burden the healthcare sector, thereby curbing the epidemic,” the statement by ministry of science and technology said.As part of this initiative, Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research (JNCASR) and the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore will co-ordinate to connect and work with all Covid-19 modelling projects and programs in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/math-model-may-help-map-trajectory-in-india/story-1lLUUZ967yJguzA7eeptUM.html
31-05-2020||India||N-95 masks protect users, not those around: Experts||People using N-95 masks with respiratory valves may be protecting themselves, but those around them could be at high risk of contracting an infection, according to experts who recommend the use of face covers without valves in a viral outbreak such as the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Using N-95 masks with valves is recommended when pollution levels are high because they do not allow carbon dioxide to accumulate inside the face cover, experts said. But the same valve — used for exhalation — could act as an easy passage for germs and endanger those in close proximity if the user has an infection. “If you’re using N-95 masks, use the ones without a valve,” said GC Khilnani, a member of the Delhi chief minister’s advisory committee on Covid-19 preparedness and the chairman of PSRI Hospital in New Delhi. While all masks filter the air users are inhaling, the ones without valves also trap most of the germs coming out with exhalation, protecting people around those wearing them. Also read| Covid: Only masks, distancing and isolation can prevent a July-August surgeThe Union health ministry has been issuing regular advisories, asking people to avoid wearing N-95 masks, which are used as part of personal protection equipment (PPE) kit for health care and other frontline workers dealing with Covid-19 cases. Harsh Mahajan, the owner of Mahajan Imaging, a diagnostic centre, said N-95 masks should be prohibited even for health care workers. “In fact, in Covid times, N-95 masks with valve should be banned as these are meant to be used during high pollution levels...the valve meant to breathe out air will also let germs (viruses and bacteria) pass, making it unsafe for others in close proximity. The purpose of wearing a mask to protect others will get defeated in the time of Covid-19,” he said. Khilnani said it is important to wear a mask in way that it covers the face snugly from the upper part of the nose to the chin. “If you use washable masks, wash, dry and reuse after five days...Surgical masks should be disposed of after every use,” he said.Surgical masks are recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO) for health care and sanitation workers who are not directly involved in dealing with Covid-19 patients. These masks create a barrier around the nose and the mouth, but such face covers should be discarded after each use. Another option is a homemade face cover (preferably made of cotton fabric) that can be reused after washing.SK Chhabra, a senior pulmonologist at Primus Hospital in New Delhi, said: “For healthy persons stepping out, face covers should provide some protection as these will stop exposure to bigger droplets. However, the use of handkerchiefs or stoles should be avoided as there will be too many leak points. These will only provide psychological relief that the person is aware about the need for precaution.”Only cotton should be used to make masks, he said. “Apart from not being virus-friendly, cotton is also a breathable fabric that doesn’t trap heat and humidity so much. Chances of the face cover not getting wet easily are higher in cotton-made covers. Once the mask gets wet you have to replace it; otherwise, it is not effective. Nylon ones will serve no purpose at all,” Chhabra added. Cotton-made face covers are recommended for healthy people or those with flu-like symptoms who are stepping out of their houses.However face masks don’t provide 100% protection and should be used while maintaining hand hygiene, cough etiquettes and physical distancing by staying at least six feet (2 metres approximately) away from others, according to experts. Gloves too are important, and need to be regularly disinfected with a sanitizer even while a user is wearing them.“One should properly discard the gloves after use. Gloves are usually disposable and must be discarded after single use,” said Srikant Sharma, a senior consultant at the department of medicine, Moolchand Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/n-95-masks-protect-users-not-those-around-experts/story-3jDIEWz4LQfaPcNsz9CFJK.html
31-05-2020||India||Two terrorists killed in encounter in Kashmir’s Kulgam district||Two terrorists were killed in South Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Saturday after security forces launched a joint operation in the area.The police have not revealed the identity of the terrorists however sources said that both the terrorists killed in the encounter were locals. Soon after the encounter began mobile internet was suspended in the district. A senior police officer said that some parents had claimed the bodies and if they identify it, they will be allowed to participate in the funeral which is being held at an isolated place in Baramulla district. For more than a month, the bodies of local terrorists killed in encounters are not being given to their families and buried either in Ganderbal of Baramulla district due to restrictions imposed in the wake of coronavirus pandemic.A J&K police spokesperson said that on the intervening night of May 29/30, a specific input was received by the police about the presence of terrorists hiding in Wanpora Khudwani village.“Acting on this input a joint search operation was launched by Kulgam Police, 1RR, and CRPF. As search parties drew closer to the suspected house, hiding terrorists fired indiscriminately upon the search party. The fire was effectively retaliated in which two unidentified terrorists were neutralised,” he said adding that incriminating material including arms and ammunition has been recovered from the site of encounter. A case has been registered at Qaimoh police station and investigations taken up, the spokesperson said.This is the second encounter in Kulgam district this week. On Monday, two terrorists were killed in an encounter in the Khurd-Hanjipora area of Manzgam.Last week, two militants, including Hizb-ul-Mujahedeen divisional commander Junaid Sehrai, were killed in an encounter at Nawakadal in Srinagar, while over 12 houses were damaged in the encounter. Three civilians who got injured in the house collapse also died in the hospital due to burn injuries.Since the lockdown, 39 terrorists and two militant associates have been killed while 24 security forces personnel, including two in ceasefire violations, were martyred.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-militants-killed-in-encounter-in-kashmir-s-kulgam-district/story-hrJhB79RikcTU6DYcJiOjN.html
31-05-2020||India||Darbha valley attack: AK-47 looted from Congress leader Mahendra Karma’s security officer recovered||An AK-47 assault rifle looted from late Congress leader Mahendra Karma’s personal bodyguard during a Maoist attack in 2013 was recovered from Rajandgaon district on May 8, police said on Friday.Karma and 26 others, including 12 Congress leaders and workers and eight policemen, were killed in the attack in Darbha valley seven years ago.On May 8, a sub-inspector of police and four Maoists, including a divisional committee member of the CPI-Maoist, were killed during a gun battle in the jungles of Rajnandgaon district.“Police recovered two automatic rifles from the spot – an AK-47 and a SLR (self-loading rifle). We seized the weapons and started investigating where they had got these weapons,” Rajnandgaon’s superintendent of police Jitendra Shukla said.“As per the number inscribed on the AK-47, the gun was allotted to Karma’s personal security guard Siyaram Singh. The SLR was looted in 2006 in Kirandul area of Dantewada.”Siyaram Singh, who was severely injured in the 2013 attack, had died of multiple organ failure in Raipur hospital a few days later.A charge-sheet filed by the National Investigating Agency (NIA) in 2014 regarding the attack had said the Maoists looted nine AK-47 rifles, seven INSAS rifles, two SLRs, four 9mm pistols, magazines and ammunitions from dead and injured police personnel.Shukla said that police had gunned down Ashok, the divisional committee member who used to carry Siyaram Singh’s AK-47, and Krishna, the area committee member of CPI-Maoist, who was using the SLR, during the May 8 gun battle.Rajnandgaon comes under a newly formed zone of Maoists. The insurgents have built a so-called “red corridor” at the tri-junction of the states of Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh (MMC).Many documents recovered by security agencies suggest the Maoists are constantly moving in this area to strengthen the new zone and recruiting new members.Senior officers of Chhattisgarh believe there are about 180 armed Maoists in Vistaar Dalam of this new zone, who are trying to establish their grip on the area. The new zone is said to be a refuge for hardcore Maoists of Bastar and other regions, and most cadres in this region were recruited from South Bastar.“ The looted weapons are always sent to the places where it is needed. It could be possible that the weapons are distributed in other states and zones. Since MMC is a new zone, Maoists are definitely concentrating on it,” said Badranna, a surrendered Maoist commander while speaking to HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/darbha-valley-attack-ak-47-looted-from-congress-leader-mahendra-karma-s-security-officer-recovered/story-r9l54EkGCK6nX6HGoXtZiK.html
