21-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab registers 23 more Covid deaths, 499 new cases||The COVID-19 death toll in Punjab rose to 4,060 on Wednesday after 23 more people succumbed to the disease, while the tally reached 1,29,088 with 499 new cases, according to a medical bulletin.Four deaths each were reported from Bathinda and Ludhiana, three each from Patiala and Amritsar, two from Jalandhar and one each from Faridkot, Ferozepur, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala, Mohali and Sangrur, the bulletin said.The places which reported new coronavirus cases include Jalandhar (83), Mohali (53), Amritsar (53) and Ludhiana (47).There are 4,808 active cases in the state, as of now, according to the bulletin.A total of 562 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection, taking the number of cured persons to 1,20,220.Thirty-one critical patients are on ventilator support, while 121 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 23,85,846 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-registers-23-more-covid-deaths-499-new-cases-159131
21-10-2020||Mumbai||Dharmendra and Hema Malini twin in blue; see pictures from Dream Girl's birthday bash||Actress-politician Hema Malini on Wednesday treated fans with new pictures of her with her husband, actor Dharmendra.Hema Malini recently celebrated her 72nd birthday with Dharmendra and their daughters, Esha and Ahana. Now, she has taken to social media to share glimpses of her birthday celebrations.In pictures that she shared, we see Hema Malini twinning with Dharmendra in blue. While she wears a blue striped suit, he complements her look by sporting blue jeans and a blue waistcoat.Time to share a few of my birthday photos with all of you! pic.twitter.com/kwyZBdNvFjThe evergreen couple's pictures on Twitter have left fans awe-struck."The most beautiful couple," a user tweeted."Lovely pictures. Miss seeing you both together in films," another user commented.Dharmendra and Hema Malini, have co-starred in numerous hots including "Sholay", "Seeta Aur Geeta", "Charas" and "Dream Girl". They got married in August 1979. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dharmendra-and-hema-malini-twin-in-blue-see-pictures-from-dream-girls-birthday-bash-159091
21-10-2020||New Delhi||Punjab govt cannot change laws made by Centre: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister and AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said the Punjab government cannot change laws made by the Centre and asked if the farmers will get the minimum support price by the state assembly legislations.The Punjab Assembly on Tuesday adopted a resolution rejecting the Centre’s new farm laws and passed four bills it said will counter the contentious legislation enacted by Parliament.The bills were passed and the resolution adopted unanimously after over five hours of discussion on the second day of a special assembly session called by the Amarinder Singh-led Congress government.Reacting to the move, Kejriwal called it a “drama” and claimed that the Punjab government cannot change the laws made by the Centre.“Raja Sahib, you amended the laws of the Centre. Can the state change the laws of the Centre? No. You did a drama. You fooled people. The laws which you passed yesterday by them will the farmers get MSP? No. Farmers want MSP, not your fake and false laws,” Kejriwal tweeted, tagging the post of the Punjab Chief Minister Office.The CMO Punjab said, “Amazed at double standards of SAD & AAP, says @capt_amarinder Singh on their criticism of state’s bills after backing them in the House. CM asks @ArvindKejriwal to follow Punjab’s examples to bring out similar bills to save farmers.”The state bills provide for imprisonment of not less than three years for the sale or purchase of wheat or paddy below the minimum support price (MSP), exemption of farmers from attachment of land up to 2.5 acres and prevention of hoarding and black-marketing of agricultural produce.The state bills, however, need the assent of the Governor before they become laws. The Governor could withhold assent and refer them to the President.The Punjab Assembly also adopted a resolution rejecting the Centre’s new farm laws. The opposition and farmer unions claim that the new laws will lead to the dismantling of the MSP system, a suggestion repeatedly denied by the BJP-led government at the Centre. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-cannot-change-laws-made-by-centre-kejriwal-159090
21-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab farmer bodies relax ‘rail roko’ stir by allowing goods trains; CM welcomes move||The farmer bodies in Punjab on Wednesday announced the easing of their three week-long ‘rail roko’ agitation by allowing goods trains in the state.Farmer leader Satnam Singh said the decision was taken keeping in mind the shortage of coal and diammonium phosphate (DAP) fertiliser.“We have decided to allow only goods trains from today till November 5,” he said here.The announcement comes after a meeting of different farmer organisations here.Chief Minister Amarinder Singh welcomed the announcement, saying it was in the interest of the state’s economy and its revival.He said the farmers had shown their love and concern for the people of Punjab with this move as it will allow the state to get its much-needed coal supplies.In a statement, the CM stated that the people of Punjab had been facing a total power shutdown as a result of coal shortage due to the blockade, and the decision of the protesting farmer unions had come as a major relief to them.The protesting farmers, however, said they would continue to stage sit-ins outside fuel pumps of some corporates, toll plazas and residences of BJP leaders in the state.“The next course of action will be announced in a meeting fixed for November 4,” Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakunda) general secretary Jagmohan Singh said.The Punjab government had been urging the protesting farmers to relax their rail roko agitation in the wake of severe shortage of coal for thermal plants in the state.Several industrial organisations had also complained of not receiving their inputs due to the agitation.Farmers in the state had blocked rail tracks from October 1 on a call given by several farmer unions. Some tracks had been blocked since September 24.On the four Bills passed by the Punjab Assembly on Tuesday against the Centre’s farm laws, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) president Balbir Singh Rajewal said it was a “big achievement” of farmers’ agitation.“It has happened for the first time that a special session of the Assembly was called and the Bills were passed under pressure from farmers.“It is a big achievement of farmers’ agitation,” he said.The Bills were passed after an over five-hour discussion, in which BJP MLAs did not take part. The BJP has two legislators in the assembly.The Opposition SAD, AAP and Lok Insaaf MLAs backed the legislations.The chief minister said the easing of the agitation would also help the industry to get back on the path to revival.“The ‘rail roko’ stir of the farmers had caused huge financial losses to the industry, thus compounding the crisis triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic,” he said in the statement.He said the unrestricted movement of goods trains will help the state replenish its critically low urea supplies, thus catering to the urgent need of the farming community for fertilisers.The senior Congress leader, however, urged the protesting farmer unions to also lift the blockade on passenger trains, which are catering to tens of thousands of Punjabis every day, especially during the present festival times.“The people of Punjab want to come back home to celebrate the festival season with their families,” he said, appealing to the protesters. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-farmer-bodies-relax-rail-roko-stir-by-allowing-goods-trains-cm-welcomes-move-159088
21-10-2020||---||Amarinder has thrown farmers back at Modi’s mercy: SAD||Chandigarh, October 21The Shiromani Akali Dal on Wednesday said that the Bill brought by Captain Amarinder Singh-led government and passed by the Punjab Vidhan Sabha on Tuesday has thrown the farmers back at “Modi’s mercy” by linking it to presidential assent and allowing “black laws to remain intact”.Captain Amarinder Singh and Narendra Modi are playing a fixed match to hoodwink the farmers, alleged the party.Addressing mediapersons here this afternoon, senior Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia said that the entire exercise was clearly an “orchestrated move” by the Modi-Captain duo to stop Punjab from rejecting the Centre’s acts and from being declared a Private Market Yard.Majithia said these were the only two main objectives for which  the session had been convened and both objectives were defeated.                    “The entire exercise was a fraud played on the farmers at the bidding of Modi government. The session was meant merely to please Modi through Bills which only throw the farmers back into Modi’s trap,” said Majithia.  He said that Captain had deliberately brought Bills under an Article in the concurrent list on which Centre has overriding powers.“Had the Bills been brought under the state list then the Centre’s or presidential assent would not be needed,” he said, adding, “he (Amarinder Singh) deliberately brought (Bills) under the concurrent list to put it under the Centre’s jurisdiction.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amarinder-has-thrown-farmers-back-at-modis-mercy-sad-159047
21-10-2020||Patiala||Patiala govt teachers protest over 'revised pay scale'; burn copy of orders||After the protest by government school teachers against the notification of revised pay scale on Tuesday, the Education Department has issued a clarification, here, on Wednesday that revised pay scales would be applied to "future recruitments only".In its latest order, the government said: "These pay matrix shall be applicable to the future recruits only, and wouldn’t have any bearing on incumbents".However, the teachers weren't convinced by the new notification, and decided to continue their stir.Earlier in the day, they gathered outside their respective schools, and burnt the copies of the orders.One of the teacher organisations, Democratic Teachers Front (DTF) announced, that they would continue to protest till October 25.Vikram Dev, Vice president, DTF, said: "We strongly oppose the implementation of central pay scales. We will continue our protest until the government takes back this decision".Dev announced, that they would 'gherao' the residence of Finance Minister Manpreet, cabinet minister, Rajinder Singh Bajwa, and Brahm Mohindra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-govt-teachers-protest-over-revised-pay-scale-burn-copy-of-orders-159042
21-10-2020|| ||Happy that Navjot Sidhu attended Punjab Assembly session and spoke well: Capt||Chandigarh, October 21Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday cornered the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) over their alleged brazen double standards with regard to the three Amendment Bills, which they had criticised publicly hours after supporting them in the Vidhan Sabha.The Chief Minister said he was amazed that they spoke in favour of the Bills in the Assembly, and even went with him to meet the Governor, but said different things outside.Talking to mediapersons after the House was adjourned sine die, he pointed out that the farmers had not said anything against the Bills, which were designed to safeguard their interests and those of the state’s agriculture.It was more than clear that these parties were not interested in securing the future of the farmers or protecting the state’s agriculture and economy, the Chief Minister said, slamming the SAD and the AAP for playing to the galleries by pretending to back the Bills in the Assembly on Tuesday.Their lack of sincerity towards the farmers’ cause had been totally exposed by their statements thereafter, he said.“If they thought we (I and my government) were fooling the people of Punjab, why did they not say so in the House? Why did they support and vote for our Bills?” asked Captain Amarinder, reacting to SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia and AAP leadership’s statements.They had both accused the Chief Minister of misleading the people, citing his remarks on the possibility of the Governor/President not signing the Bills.“If I had to fool the people why would I honestly share with them my apprehensions? Why would I openly talk about the possible scenarios instead of feeding them with a whole bunch of lies, as the Akalis and AAP are used to doing?” Captain Amarinder asked.Both the Opposition parties had shown their true colours by trying to undermine the state government’s pro-farmer initiatives, which they had ostensibly backed in the House, said the Chief Minister, referring to the media/social media comments of Akali and AAP leaders. He pointed out that these Opposition leaders had criticised his government’s efforts to save the farmers soon after joining his government in passing a Resolution rejecting the central farm laws along with Bills to negate the same, and even going to Governor with him to submit copies to him. “Clearly they have no shame left,” he added.The CM said, in response to a question, that other parties, especially the AAP, which had a government in Delhi, should also bring in legislations similar to those of Punjab to negate the dangerous effects of the central farm laws. Arvind Kejriwal should follow Punjab’s example, he said.Earlier, in the House today, the chief minister waved copies of newspapers quoting Majithia on the issue, and quipped “these people say one thing in Assembly and another outside.”  With this kind of behaviour, people will start doubting the integrity of politicians, he warned.Meanwhile, in his media interaction, Captain Amarinder said, while responding to a question, that he was happy that Navjot Singh Sidhu came to the House yesterday and spoke well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/happy-that-navjot-sidhu-attended-punjab-assembly-session-and-spoke-well-capt-159027
21-10-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Willing to resign if Centre thinks it's rebellion to pass laws in farmers' interest: Amarinder||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 21Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh said he was willing to be dismissed or would resign if the Centre felt his passing the Bills against the three central farm laws was an act of rebellion.Also read: 7 Bills passed on Day 3 of Punjab Vidhan Sabha amid protest by Akali MLAs over post-matric scholarship scamCapt Amarinder was talking to the media after the three-day Assembly session ended on Wednesday. “I have resigned earlier too and have no qualms in resigning again to defend the interests of Punjab’s farmers," he said.The CM also defended his Cabinet colleague Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and reiterated his earlier stand regarding the post-matric scholarship scam, claiming the minister was not involved in any wrongdoing. “There is no question of seeking his resignation,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/willing-to-resign-if-centre-thinks-its-rebellion-to-pass-laws-in-farmers-interest-amarinder-159020
21-10-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||7 Bills passed on day 3 of Punjab Vidhan Sabha session; Akali MLAs protest over post-matric scholarship scam||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 21As many as seven Bills were passed on the day three of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha session, which began amid protest by the Akali Dal MLAs in the Well of the House.The MLAs protested over the post-matric scholarship scam and soon staged a walkout.Later, members of the Lok Insaaf Party also joined them in the protest outside the House.The House adjourned sine die.The Bills passed were The Punjab Bhondedar, Butemar, Dohlidar, Insar, Miami, Mukkararidar, Mundhimar, Panahi, Qadeem, Saunjidar or Taraddadkar ( Vesting of Proprietary Rights Bill, The Punjab Vigilance Commission Bill, The Registration (Punjab Amendment) Bill, The Punjab Tissue Culture Based Seed Potato Bill, The Punjab Land Revenue (Amendment) Bill, The Punjab (Welfare and Settlement of Landless, Marginal and Small Occupant Farmers) Allotment of State Government Land Bill, and The Factories (Punjab Amendment) Bill.The disbursal of Rs 248.11 crore out of the Rs 303 crore, which was released in three parts by the Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment in February 2019 and March 2019, had come under scanner.The Centre had released the payment on the basis of the reimbursement claims received from the Social Welfare Department for fiscal years 2015-2016 and 2016-2017 when the SAD-BJP was in power.In the departmental probe report submitted to the Chief Secretary on August 24, the disbursal of Rs 248.11 crore is under the scanner. Of this, the department disbursed Rs 39 crore to “ghost” institutions as the records of the distribution of the amount are missing. Another Rs 16.71 crore was wrongly disbursed to private educational institutions despite the Finance Department during its audit pointing out recovery of Rs 8 crore from the institutions which had been illegally given the scholarship amount.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/7-bills-passed-on-day-3-of-punjab-vidhan-sabha-session-akali-mlas-protest-over-post-matric-scholarship-scam-158993
21-10-2020||---||Government fooling people: AAP||Chandigarh, October 20AAP state chief Bhagwant Mann and Leader of Opposition Harpal Cheema tonight accused the Congress government of fooling people over the “black” farm laws.Expressing reservations over the Bills passed, Mann said: “Our fears over the anti-farmer laws and their far-reaching disastrous ramifications stand substantiated.”Cheema said: “Was any state government within its powers to cancel the laws passed by the Centre? If not, then he (Capt Amarinder) has being lying to hoodwink people of the state.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/government-fooling-people-aap-158829
21-10-2020||Chandigarh||BJP: Bills have no bearing  on farm laws||The BJP has termed the passage of farm Bills by the Assembly a high-profile drama which will have no bearing on the Farm Acts passed by the BJP-led Centre government.BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh said in a statement that mere dialogues couldn’t change the fortune of the farmers. He reminded Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh of his unfulfilled promises made in the election manifesto.He said the state government should have spent time and resources more constructively by waiving the Rs 90,000-crore debt on state farmers than passing the farm Bills.Criticising one of the Bills, Chugh said: “It would discourage traders. Also, what about MSP on maize or other crops? The state government is silent on it. Does it want the Punjab farmers to grow wheat and paddy only? The Central Acts encourage diversification of farming by providing the market all over India.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-bills-have-no-bearing-on-farm-laws-158827
21-10-2020||Chandigarh||More needs to be done: SAD||The SAD today said the Congress government had taken up the farm Bills after farmers’ ultimatum but a lot more was needed to be done to secure the future of state farmers, even as it announced its legislators were ready to resign en mass to ensure the Centre gave them their due.“The fight to secure justice for the ‘kisan’, ‘khet mazdoor’ and arhtiyas as well as three crore Punjabis has just started. Now Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh must give a categorical assurance that the state government would purchase all crops, including wheat, paddy, cotton and maize at the MSP, if the Centre defaults on the same,” SAD legislature party leader Sharanjit Singh Dhillon and Bikram Singh Majithia said.Sharanjit Singh Dhillon, SAD Leader‘Opportunity lost’The govt could have passed a Bill to make the entire state a single principal market yard. A huge opportunity has been missed. “The truth is that our farmer brothers made CM Capt Amarinder Singh relent from his recent statement at Khatkar Kalan where he asserted that there was no point in calling a session to negate the Central laws,” they said.Majithia said it was unfortunate that the government did not share the proposed Bills with all the stakeholders, including farmers and legislators, before the House was convened. The SAD said the CM had thrown the ball in the Centre’s court by passing Bills concerning trade and commerce which were in the concurrent list and required the Presidential assent.Majithia said it was baffling why the government refused to take a firm stand to protect APMC markets by repealing the related Acts. — TNSFarmerspeakNo let-up in stirProtests will continue with the same intensity till the union leaders study the Bills. Our protests are being held at 60 places, including outside houses of BJP leaders and businesses owned by big corporate houses. Sukhdev S Kokrikalan, BKU(EKTA U)Big win for farmersWe welcome the Bills. It is the first big victory for the farmer unions, which have managed to pressure the state government to act. Our next big fight will be with the Narendra Modi government in Delhi. Balbir Singh Rajewal, BKU (Rajewal)MSP issue ignoredWhy is MSP guaranteed only for wheat and paddy? Does the government think it is okay to exploit cotton and maize growers? By not bringing other crops under the ambit of MSP, these farmers have been ignored. Rajinder Singh Deepsinghwala, KKU||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/more-needs-to-be-done-sad-158825
21-10-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Capt Amarinder Singh raises stakes with Bills||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 20By getting three Bills passed in the state Assembly with the support of the major opposition parties, Capt Amarinder Singh has raised the stakes in the Congress’ fight against the BJP over the contentious farm laws.On Tuesday, the Chief Minister by getting the farm Bills passed has given the much-required political impetus to the grand old party that has been looking for a foothold to take on the Narendra Modi-led BJP government, provided it uses it aptly.Across the country, especially in Punjab and Haryana, the sentiment of the farming community has been against the Central farm laws. The Congress-ruled Punjab became the first state to use the legislative route to rubbish the laws, knowing well that the fate of the Bills lies with the Centre.Sensing the mood of people, the SAD and AAP had no option but to follow the narrative set by the Congress in taking on the Centre. Indicating the political battle that lay ahead, Captain Amarinder, after meeting the Punjab Governor, said, “It is the first step. One has to wait. Things happen step by step.”Political analysts said to reap benefit of the support on the farm issue, the party would have to scale up its agitation in the coming months, knowing well that the Centre would try not to give it political advantage in the situation.With almost one year left for the Assembly elections and anti-incumbency factor at play, the CM armed with “the crusader for farmers” image would not desist from throwing his hat in the electoral battle, much to the disadvantage of his adversaries within the party.He has already said the Centre had no need to dismiss him as he was carrying his resignation in the pocket and would give it willingly, rather than compromise on the interests of Punjab and its farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-raises-stakes-with-bills-158824
21-10-2020||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Farm law controversy may reach Supreme Court: Experts||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 20Constitution and farming experts feel that the farm law controversy, especially with the contradictory stands of the Centre and Punjab, is set to land at the door of the Supreme Court.Legal expert Manmohan Lal Sarin said, “Firstly, the Supreme Court will clarify as to who is the competent authority to pass the farm Bills under consideration. Questions can be raised on subjects in the concurrent list where both the Centre and states are competent to make laws. The matter on the concurrent list, after being passed by the state Governor, is required to be signed by the President. If not signed by him, the matter is likely to reach the Supreme Court.”Leading Supreme Court lawyer Charanpal Singh Bagri said, “Since the Centre and state have passed contradictory laws, the case is all set to reach the Supreme Court under Article 131 of the Constitution.”Bagri said, “As per the law, the Bills concerning agriculture production, supply and distribution are on the state list. We are likely to witness a big debate on the subjects mentioned in concurrent list, like the one concerning essential commodities”. Advocate General Atul Nanda said, “The state government has heard the voice of the people in passing the Bills. The Bills submitted to the Governor will be forwarded to the President and we expect he should not hold back the voice of the people.”Noted farm economist Prof SS Johl said the government was right in indicating that it would not do away with the MSP, particularly on wheat and rice.Sucha Singh Gill, senior professor, CRRID, felt that if the case went to the Supreme Court, farmers might pull out of the agitation mode “at least for some time”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-law-controversy-may-reach-supreme-court-experts-158822
21-10-2020||Chandigarh||Joint delegation meets Governor, presses for nod to Bills||All major political parties in Punjab, barring the BJP, today joined hands to press the Centre to accept the pro-farmer Bills passed by the state Assembly today.Within hours of unanimously passing three Bills against the Centre’s farm laws in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha, a joint delegation of the Congress, AAP, SAD and Lok Insaaf Party, led by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, met Governor VP Singh Badnore, seeking his approval to the Bills, before sending these to the President. The Chief Minister was accompanied by PPCC president Sunil Jakhar, Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema and SAD’s Sharanjit Singh Dhillon and MLAs.After calling on the Governor, the CM said a joint delegation of the legislators would meet the President, between November 2-5. “Since it was a unanimous decision, I hope the Punjab Governor understands the issue and gives his approval to the laws. If the constitutional heads do not do it, there is always a legal remedy,” he said.Asserting that he did not think the Centre could afford to ignore the voice of Punjab, Captain Amarinder said he hoped that it would realise that “killing MSP would spell the death knell for the farming sector”.Asked about the possibility of the Centre imposing President’s rule in the state, Captain Amarinder said, “Let’s wait and see.” Captain Amarinder said his government would be bringing more pro-farm and pro-poor Bills in the House tomorrow.AAP leader Cheema said they were all working together by rising above party lines in the farmers’ interest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/joint-delegation-meets-governor-presses-for-nod-to-bills-158821
21-10-2020||---||Ready to step down than bow to injustice: Punjab CM||Chandigarh, October 20Asserting that he was prepared to resign or be dismissed rather than bow to injustice towards Punjab’s farmers, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today warned of possible disruption of the state’s peace andthreat to national security as a result of the farm laws. He stressed nobody could tolerate the attack on religious ethos and livelihood.Capt Amarinder Singh, CM‘End rail roko, let goods move’I appeal to farmers to end the ‘rail roko’ agitation and allow the movement of essential commodities… the state is going through tough times, with power generation at a precarious low, no urea for fertilisers and no space in godown for fresh paddy arrivals. “I am not afraid of resigning. I am not afraid of my government being dismissed. But I will not let the farmers suffer or be ruined,” said the Chief Minister, pointing out that he had chosen to quit at the time of Operation Bluestar instead of accepting or endorsing the assault on Sikh ethos.Cautioning the Centre, the CM said if the farm laws were not revoked, angry youth could come out on the streets to join the farmers, leading to chaos. The situation had the potential to disturb the peaceful atmosphere, he warned, observing that this is what had happened in the 1980s and 90s. Both China and Pakistan would collude to take advantage of any disruption of the state’s peace, he stressed.Reiterating his full support to the protesting farmers, the CM appealed to them to end the ‘rail roko’ agitation and lift blockades and allow the movement of essential commodities.“We have stood with you, now it is your turn to stand with us,” he appealed to the farmers, adding that the entire House was with them but the state was going through tough times, with power generation at a precarious low, no urea for fertilisers and no space in godown for fresh paddy arrivals.The CM was speaking in the Vidhan Sabha while presenting the four Bills to negate the Central farm laws on the second day of the special session of the House. He made it clear that his government would not allow the state’s farming community and agriculture, which were the backbone of growth and development, to be ruined by the BJP through ‘devious plans’. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ready-to-step-down-than-bow-to-injustice-punjab-cm-158820
21-10-2020||---||Rare meaningful debate in Assembly||Chandigarh, October 20It is rather rare to see a meaningful debate in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha, where for the past couple of years each political party has indulged more in theatrics than actual discussion. Tuesday, however, was an exception as the entire House stood united for the sake of the state’s farmers.From giving suggestions to include all 23 crops while giving guarantee of the minimum support price (MSP) to bringing a separate Bill that ensures enough resources with the state government to go in for crop purchase, lawmakers, cutting across party lines, came up with many ideas to “save” farmers from the “attack by the Centre”.Many leaders, including Harpartap Ajnala from the Congress and Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, expressed displeasure that in spite of farmers ushering a green revolution, the state was always at the receiving end of the Centre. “Itihaas gawah hai ke Punjab naal hamesha dhakka hoya hai,” said Ajnala.Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh set the mood of the debate today, before he brought in a resolution rejecting the Centre’s laws. He said, “the issue was very serious as the future of Punjab’s agriculture and economy was at stake. If the Centre can withdraw from paying compensation for the GST, for which there is a constitutional guarantee, how do we believe they will buy crops at the MSP, when they are unwilling to give a guarantee for it?” he said.Though all parties supported the three Bills, they were concerned whether these would be forwarded to by the Governor and get presidential nod. Leader of Opposition Harpal Cheema and AAP’s Aman Arora, as well as SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia, raised the issue of whether the Act passed by the state can override the Act passed by Parliament. The CM assured the House that he was ready to take legal recourse to get justice for Punjab farmers.When some MLAs wanted the state government to repeal the amendments made to the APMC Act by successive governments in 2006, 2013 and 2017, allowing private purchase of grains, Finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal explained that the amendments were justified as the MSP was assured and the private players were registered so as to regulate their activities.AAP leader Sarabjit Kaur said the corporates trying to enter trade in agriculture commodities should not be facilitated and allowed to buy land in the state. She also drew the attention of the House to the plight of landless labourers, saying their minimum daily income should be assured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rare-meaningful-debate-in-assembly-158661
21-10-2020||---||On birthday, Navjot Sidhu breaks ice with Capt Amarinder Singh||Chandigarh, October 20In an apparent change of heart, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and his former Cabinet colleague Navjot Singh Sidhu exchanged pleasantries on the second day of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha session today.Most of the ministers and MLAs walked up to Sidhu’s chair to greet him on his birthday. Indicating rapprochement between the two Congress leaders, Sidhu was asked to address the House soon after the CM’s speech.Sidhu, in his address, praised the Chief Minister for taking the bold step to counter the farm laws and said it was time to be united and shun political differences.Sources did not rule out a meeting between the two in the coming days in the presence of AICC general secretary and Punjab affairs in charge Harish Rawat.Sidhu’s speech was, however, abruptly cut short soon after the live telecast of the CM’s address on the Facebook page. A government functionary, however, said the Speaker had given the permission for live telecast of the CM’s speech alone.Sidhu’s admirers said they wanted to hear the Congress MLA’s views and the government should have aired the entire proceedings live as it was a historic moment for the state. People wanted to know the views of other MLAs as well, including the Opposition benches, they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/on-birthday-navjot-sidhu-breaks-ice-with-capt-amarinder-singh-158662
21-10-2020||Chandigarh||Education Department staff pay scale revised||In pursuance of the recommendations of the Fifth Punjab Pay Commission, further based on the 7th Central Pay Commission, the state government has revised the pay scales for different categories of employees of the Education Department.As per a notification issued today by Secretary, School Education, Krishan Kumar, the fresh revision is based on revised pay scales granted to different categories of employees from January 1, 2006.The new grades15,600-39,100+6,000: grade pay of Dy DEO, Principal10,300-34,800+4,400: grade pay of Headmaster, lecturer, vocational lecturer, master, block primary education officer, centre head teacherThe Deputy District Education Officer and principal have been placed in 15,600-39,100+6,000 grade pay, while headmaster, lecturer, vocational lecturer, master, block primary education officer and centre head teacher have been placed in 10,300-34,800+4,400 grade pay.The instructions issued by the Department of Finance vide a circular on January 15, 2015, shall be applicable in toto.The government said after the receipt of report of the 6th Punjab Pay Commission, no further revision shall be effected in the pay scale/matrix for the newly recruited persons to the aforementioned categories of posts.Devinder Singh Punia, general secretary of the Democratic Teachers’ Front, said: “The government is unjust in applying the pay scales as per the recommendations of the Montek Singh Ahluwalia committee on all teachers. This was meant for only the new recruitment and the order now covers even the teachers who were recruited earlier. This will make a difference of about Rs 2,500 per month in case of old teachers. We will raise our voice against the government move.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/education-department-staff-pay-scale-revised-158663
21-10-2020||Aman Sood---||Early harvest key cause of farm fires: Officials||Tribune News Service Patiala, October 20 A comparative analysis of farm fire incidents in the state and the arrival and harvest of paddy in the districts shows that the crop arrival has already reached 100 per cent, as compared to around 50 to 60 per cent by this time last season. Districts where almost 100 per cent paddy has been harvested top in farm fire incidents, therefore the number has doubled over the past five days, from 3,517 cases on October 14 to 6,407 on October 18. Comparison of the data procured from the Food and Civil Supplies Department shows that as against the 4,67,693 metric tonne (MT) of paddy purchased on October 19, 2019, this year the agencies have already procured 5,69,051 MT. “We have already procured 25,38,282 MT of paddy more as compared to the same period in 2019. Also, 62,97,436 MT of paddy has been procured across the state as compared to 37,59,154 MT of paddy in 2019,” a senior official said.  “In districts like Tarn Tarn, Amritsar and Ferozepur, 100 per cent paddy has been procured and the fields are already clear for the next crop. Last year, during this time, 60 per cent of harvesting was still pending,” said Karunesh Garg, PPCB member secretary.  Garg said, “The arrival of paddy is more and therefore, the farm fires have also seen a spurt in the past few days as fields have been harvested much before they were done last year. In districts like Tarn Tarn, Amritsar and Ferozepur, 100 per cent paddy has been procured and the fields are already clear for the next crop. Last year, during this time, 60 per cent of harvesting was still pending.”  The state government has already imposed environmental compensation in 1,124 cases with fines of Rs 31.22 lakh imposed while another 1,082 cases are under scrutiny where compensation would be imposed in a few days. Data procured from the government states that as many as 26 cases under the Air Act 1981 have been filed while seven FIRs have been registered against erring farmers for burning stubble.  Investigations by The Tribune revealed that Punjab saw 80,879 cases of stubble burning in 2016, while the number dropped to 43,814 in 2017, only to rise again to 50,479 in 2018 and around 48,155 in 2019 (till November 11). Maximum challans were issued in 2018 and a fine of Rs 1.37 crore was levied on defaulters. “Some erring farmers refused to deposit the fine and even took officials hostage when they were approached in this regard. Investigation in many cases is still pending as the farmer unions have threatened agitation,” said an official. Air quality in Punjab remains between moderate to poor during most part of the year, but it ranges from very poor to nearly severe after the paddy season.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/early-harvest-key-cause-of-farm-fires-officials-158664
21-10-2020||---||Over 7K stubble burning cases reported this year||Ludhiana, October 20With various farm unions blaming the government for not providing any help to poor farmers to manage straw, the stubble burning cases have crossed the 7,000-mark in Punjab so far.This year, the cases have been higher that those reported during the corresponding period in the past two years. As many as 7,105 stubble burning cases have been reported between September 21 and October 19, 2020. The number was 2,005 and 2,641 during the corresponding period in 2018 and 2019, respectively.The maximum cases have been reported from Tarn Taran (1,716), followed by Amritsar (1,530), Ferozepur (623), Patiala (618) and Gurdaspur (504). The cases are also being reported from other districts of the state. However, only one case has been reported from Pathankot district as per the information available on the web portal of Punjab Remote Sensing Centre.According to information, 179 cases have been reported from Ludhiana district so far. Members of farm unions, including BKU (Ugrahan), Kirti Kisan Union and others, blamed the government for not providing bonus to the farmers to manage stubble.Tarlochan Singh, president of Kirti Kisan Union, Ludhiana, said, “The farmers in the state are helpless as the government failed to pay them bonus for managing stubble. The farmers, who are economically weak, can’t afford the machinery to manage stubble. We had earlier demanded from the government to pay at least Rs 6,000 per acre to the farmers for the management of stubble. In absence of any help from the government, farmers are being forced to burn stubble.”Karunesh Garg, member-secretary of the Punjab Pollution Control Board, said the situation was under control in the state. He said, “Due to early harvesting this year, paddy arrival at mandis has been more than twice as compared to the corresponding period last year.”“Awareness campaigns are also being held against stubble burning,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/over-7k-stubble-burning-cases-reported-this-year-158665
21-10-2020||Faridkot||Chargesheet filed in illegal weapon scam||The Punjab Police’s Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) today submitted a chargesheet in the court of the duty magistrate against a Chandigarh-based gun dealer and owner of a car agency of Moga in the illegal trafficking of foreign-made weapons.In the chargesheet, the OCCU claimed both accused were part of a chain of inter-state network of smuggling and sale of prohibited weapons in the country. The OCCU has already recovered over 20 weapons from Satish Kumar, owner of Vishal Gun House, Chandigarh.The OCCU alleged the accused had violated the terms and conditions of the court orders while getting the custody of these weapons on ‘superdari’. By way of the ‘superdari’ bond, Kumar was to produce these weapons before the police or court, as and when required. Some of these weapons were sold by the accused, it said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chargesheet-filed-in-illegal-weapon-scam-158666
21-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Gang of bank robbers busted, 3 held||Hoshiarpur, October 20In a major breakthrough, the police today claimed have solved three cases of bank robberies by arresting three members of a gang. Three country-made pistols with eight live cartridges and a .12 bore rifle, snatched from the security guard of UCO Bank’s Kalra branch in Adampur, have been recovered from them.SSP Navjot Singh Mahal said the gang was involved in robberies at Indian Overseas Bank, Gilzian Branch, Tanda, and Punjab and Sindh Bank, Bhagowal village, Hoshiarpur, besides the UCO Bank branch. A scooter, bike and Rs 30,000 in cash had also been recovered from them.Mahal said six teams had been constituted to investigate the robberies. The CCTV footage of the crime scenes was scoured and records of history sheeters and those on bail were examined. The SSP said the police arrested Sunil Dutt, alias Sunny, Sukhwinder Singh, alias Sukha, and Balwinder Singh, alias Sonu, last night from Khakli village under the Hariana police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gang-of-bank-robbers-busted-3-held-158667
21-10-2020||Mohali||NBW against former SHO in Balwant Singh Multani case||A Mohali court has issued non-bailable arrest warrants against former station house officer (SHO) and then Inspector Kanwal Inderpal Singh in the Balwant Singh Multani abduction and murder case. The court had directed the special investigation team (SIT) to arrest the accused and produce him in the court by October 19.Mataur police station SHO Rajiv Kumar had moved an application for issuing open warrants against the accused, who was the investigation officer in the case 29 years ago.Special public prosecutor Sartej Singh Narula submitted that the accused was nominated in a May 6 FIR and the police had raided his residence thrice to arrest him but was not found there. His family also did not disclose his whereabouts.During the raids, it came to the fore that the accused had left India and was presently in Canada. The counsel placed on record the traveling details of the accused as per which he had boarded the flight to Canada on October 9.He further said for the purpose of extradition proceedings against the accused, open warrants be issued. The court observed as per the arguments addressed and documents placed on record, it was apparent the accused in spite of the fact that an FIR was registered against him, chose to leave India without informing the investigation agency or taking permission from the court.In the present case, the agency would not be able to execute arrest of the accused without getting his extradition, for which court warrants would be required, it said.The public prosecutor said the then inspector had been accused of executing the orders of then SSP Sumedh Singh Saini in his capacity as the Sector 17 SHO and having played a significant role in the disappearance and elimination of former CITCO junior engineer Multani. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nbw-against-former-sho-in-balwant-singh-multani-case-158668
21-10-2020||Karam Prakash||No Central nod, Phase 3 trials of Covaxin delayed by month||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 20The Phase 3 trials of Covaxin involving clinical testing on humans at the three government medical colleges (GMCs) in Punjab have been delayed by at least a month.The trials were supposed to commence from October 15, but the state government couldn’t get the mandatory nod from Bharat Biotech. It has been learnt that the government had not received the permission and approval from the Central Government, a process which Bharat Biotech has to complete.DK Tiwari, Principal Secretary, Medical EducationPhase 2 findings not submittedBharat Biotech has not submitted the Centre’s approval to the state government to carry out the human trials. We have also not received any documents of the results of Phase 2 trials which had been carried out by Bharat BiotechDK Tiwari, Principal Secretary, Medical Education, said, “Bharat Biotech has not submitted the Central Government’s approval to the state government to carry out the human trials. Moreover, we have also not received any documents of the results of Phase 2 trials which had been carried out by Bharat Biotech.”Tiwari said the state government had been informed by Bharat Biotech that it would take two-three weeks to get the required approval. After that, the state government would seek approval from ethical committees at each college before starting the trials. “The trials of Covaxin in the state will take at least a month. We have to make sure strict adherence to all precautions as directed by the Chief Minister,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-central-nod-phase-3-trials-of-covaxin-delayed-by-month-158669
21-10-2020||Chandigarh||520 cases, 8 deaths reported in 24 hrs in Punjab||The state reported 520 fresh cases while eight persons succumbed to Covid in the past 24 hours.As per the state media bulletin, the total number of cases has now reached 1,28,590 and the toll has touched 4,037. Hoshiarpur reported the maximum cases today (109), followed by Bathinda (57), Ludhiana (46), Patiala (45), Jalandhar (43), Amritsar (36) and SAS Nagar (32). Meanwhile, Hoshiarpur and Jalandhar reported two deaths each and Amritsar, Ludhiana, Patiala and Ropar districts reported one death each. With this, the number of active Covid cases has declined further to 4,895. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/520-cases-8-deaths-reported-in-24-hrs-in-punjab-158670
21-10-2020||---||Woman SI dismissed over couple’s suicide||Amritsar, October 20On the orders of the Punjab Government, the Amritsar rural police dismissed from service Sub-Inspector Sandeep Kaur, the prime suspect in the double suicide case, here today. She was posted at the Mehta police station before she went into hiding after the suicides.Vikramjit Singh, a jeweller and resident of Navapind village, had committed suicide in a hotel room on October 10. In his suicide note, and video and audio messages, he had accused the SI and her accomplices of harassment and blackmail. He alleged they had extorted around Rs 18 lakh from him. A day later, his wife Sukhbir Kaur ended her life at her residence in Navapind village.Former Congress leader Mandeep Singh Manna along with Tanpreet Kaur, daughter of the deceased couple, on Tuesday met Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill and demanded immediate arrest of Sandeep Kaur, who has been on the run since October 11Two cases of abetment to suicide were filed against the SI and her unidentified accomplices in this regard.SSP (Amritsar rural) Dhruv Dahiya, in an order today, pointed out that as the departmental probe would take time, it would not be in public interest for the SI to continue in service. The crime allegedly perpetrated by her pointed towards criminal mindset and her ability to harm the inquiry officer, he said. She has been dismissed from service with effect from October 20.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/woman-si-dismissed-over-couples-suicide-158671
21-10-2020||Saurabh Malik||Adult marrying minor girl liable for punishment: High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 20An adult ‘groom’ who marries a minor may soon find himself tying the knot with trouble. The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that he was liable for punishment under the provisions of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006.Asserting that FIRs were not being registered in such matters, Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi called for detailed information by way of an affidavit by the state of Punjab. It has been asked to specify whether instructions have been issued regarding registration of cases against a male adult contracting child marriage, and other persons involved in conducting, directing, abetting, attending or participating in it.The state has also been asked to specify the number of complaints received this year for registration of such cases and how many cases were actually registered on such complaints in Punjab.Since FIRs under Section 9 or other provisions of the 2006 Act were not being registered in Haryana and Chandigarh, a notice was issued to the state and the UT as well. They were also asked to furnish the information to the court by way of an affidavit. Justice Tyagi was hearing a petition filed against the state of Punjab and other respondents through counsel Sumeet S Sandhu.Justice Tyagi asserted the Act was “secular” and applied to all irrespective of religion. It was intended to curb the menace/social evil of child marriage and the provisions were required to be strictly implemented “so that the same did not remain dead letter and the object of enactment thereof was achieved”.Justice Tyagi said efficiency of administration of criminal justice was dependent solely on efficacy of its judicial and executive process and the majesty of rule of law was seriously undermined by defiance/noncompliance of statutory provisions and court orders — deliberate or otherwise.“It is, therefore, of utmost importance that statutory provisions enacted/amended as well as directions issued by the courts from time to time are complied in letter and spirit by the police which do not have any discretion of not complying with the same,” Justice Tyagi asserted. The case will now come up for hearing in November first week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/adult-marrying-minor-girl-liable-for-punishment-high-court-158672
21-10-2020||Ropar||Ropar jail denies BSP MLA’s custody to Uttar Pradesh cops||The local jail authorities have refused custody of jailed BSP MLA Mukhtar Ansari to the Uttar Pradesh Police, saying he had been advised bed rest by doctors. A team of the UP Police was here to take Ansari into custody in connection with a case.Ansari is facing several criminal cases in Uttar Pradesh and has been lodged in a Punjab jail since last year.Advised rest by docBSP MLA Mukhtar Ansari was suffering from depression, diabetes and backbone pain, and had been advised rest for three months, Civil Surgeon Davinder Kumar saidAccording to reports, over a dozen fresh cases have been registered against him in UP over the past six months and he was supposed to be produced in a court tomorrow in one such case.Ansari, who was lodged in the Banda jail, was brought on production warrant by the Mohali police in January last year in connection with a threat call made to a local realtor for demanding Rs 10 crore as ‘protection money’. The caller had identified himself as Mukhtar Ansari.According to the Ropar jail authorities, Ansari had been suffering from several ailments and was examined by doctors on August 13. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ropar-jail-denies-bsp-mlas-custody-to-uttar-pradesh-cops-158673
21-10-2020||---||4 held for duping family posing as tax officials||Sangrur, October 20The police have arrested four persons for allegedly impersonating as income tax (IT) officials and duping a Bhawanigarh family of cash and gold ornaments. Raids are on to arrest other suspects involved in the crime.SSP Vivek Sheel Son said the suspects, posing as IT officials, “raided” the residence of Krishan Kohli in Bhawanigarh on October 16 and took away cash, gold ornaments and silver.“A police team arrested Sewa Ram, Baldev Singh, Jaspal and Manoj near Roshanwala and recovered Rs 3.80 lakh in cash, gold ornaments weighing 272 gm, silver and a .32 bore pistol,” said the SSP.The team also seized two vehicles, including Innova and Brezza cars. The suspects apparently got inspired from a Bollywood movie. Further investigations were under way, the SSP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-held-for-duping-family-posing-as-tax-officials-158674
21-10-2020||Ferozepur||Heroin worth Rs12 cr seized in Ferozepur||Sleuths belonging to the 116th Battalion of the BSF have recovered three packets of heroin weighing approximately 2.435 kg along with a pistol, a magazine and four cartridges.The estimated cost of the recovered heroin is around Rs 12.40 crore in the international market. BSF DIG Surinder Mehta said the consignment was recovered following intelligence inputs. “A search operation was carried out during which the consignment was recovered,” he said.On October 14, 5 kg heroin worth Rs 25 crore was recovered by the BSF troops. As per information, 453.197 kg heroin worth Rs 2,270 crore has been recovered this year. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heroin-worth-rs12-cr-seized-in-ferozepur-158675
21-10-2020||Ferozepur||Pak intruder arrested||A Pakistani national was reportedly nabbed near the Hussainiwala barrage along the India-Pakistan border in this sector yesterday.As per information, the intruder was identified as Mushtaq, who was carrying Pakistani currency worth Rs 5,510, besides some visiting cards. Sources said a jawan deputed at the Hussainiwala barrage noticed the suspect. He was immediately taken into custody and was later handed over to the police. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pak-intruder-arrested-158676
21-10-2020||---||Missing ‘saroops’: Offence criminal, not religious: Members||Amritsar, October 20Expressing dissatisfaction with the SGPC’s ‘inaction’ against its officials and staff members allegedly involved in the misappropriation of 328 ‘saroops’, five senior SGPC members, including SAD (Democratic) leader Sewa Singh Sekhwan and Bibi Kiranjot Kaur, today urged Akal Takht’s officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh to refrain from entertaining SGPC’s proposal of deciding punishment for the culprits.In the backdrop, the SGPC, through its Dharam Parchar Committee, had re-approached the Akal Takht on October 14, requesting it to pronounce ‘exemplary punishment’.Sekhwan argued that since the misappropriation of ‘saroops’ also involved embezzlement of money in the form of ‘bheta’ incurred by issuing the ‘saroops’ unauthorisedly, criminal proceedings should be initiated, not religious punishment.“Embezzlement of money cannot be termed as a religious matter. It is a criminal offence. We have submitted a joint application to the Akal Takht to keep aside the SGPC’s proposal. It was the liability of the SGPC to register a police complaint in the case of disappearance of ‘saroops’,” he said. The SGPC executive, in its meeting on August 27, had favoured initiating criminal action but withdrew the proposal on September 5 with an excuse that no external authority could be allowed to interfere in SGPC’s religious affairs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/missing-saroops-offence-criminal-not-religious-members-158677
21-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab passes Bills to bypass Central farm laws||In a historic move, the Punjab Vidhan Sabha on Tuesday unanimously passed three Bills to counter the contentious farm laws enacted by the Union Government last month. Among other things, the Bills make buying wheat and paddy below minimum support price (MSP) a punishable offence.Also read: First state to pass resolution against Parliament ActsProposes 3-year jail for crop purchase below MSPFarmers to get protection against attachment of landOppn parties SAD, AAP back Bills; BJP skips sessionThere is also a provision to levy fee on corporate houses making purchases outside mandis. The fee will be used for the welfare of farmers.Capt Amarinder Singh, Punjab CMI’m ready to resign or be dismissed, but won’t bow to injustice towards farmers. The second day of the special session began with CM Capt Amarinder Singh moving a resolution rejecting the Centre's laws and the proposed Electricity Amendment Bill. He asked the Centre to annul these laws and bring an ordinance making procurement of farm produce at MSP a statutory right of farmers and continue procuring grain through the FCI and other agencies.He urged the Centre not to allow the situation go out of hand. "If the laws are not revoked, angry youth may take to streets and join the protesting farmers, which would lead to chaos," he warned.Though the Opposition pledged support to the Bills, some MLAs raised questions on their validity. The only absentees in the House were the two BJP MLAs -- Dinesh Singh and Arun Narang. The Aam Aadmi Party first backed the Bills even though it complained that the MLAs were not given time to go through these. Later in the evening, the party questioned the state's powers to nullify laws passed by the Centre.Akali Dal MLA Bikram Singh Majithia asked what would happen if the Governor refused to send the Bills for Presidential nod, or if the President refused to grant his assent? The Chief Minister said he was aware that such a situation could arise. "We will then fight the battle legally, but won't allow anyone to harm the interests of Punjab farmers," he said.Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu too spoke on the Bills. He said Punjab made the country food surplus and fed 80 crore people. "It is a conspiracy to harm the interests of Punjab farmers and let corporates rule the sector," he alleged.Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal introduced another Bill seeking amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. The Bill seeks to protect the farmers from attachment of land (below 2.5 acres) in any recovery proceedings. This Bill was also passed unanimously.What the Bills moved by congress govt proposeThe Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) (Punjab Amendment) Bill: Buying wheat, paddy below MSP to invite 3-year jail, fine.The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance (Punjab Amendment) Bill: Contractors to purchase at MSP. Violators face 3-year jail, fine.The Essential Commodities (Punjab Amendment) Bill: Keeps powers to fix stock limit of foodgrain with the state. Protects consumers from hoarding and black-marketing. The Code of Civil Procedure (Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2020: Protects farmers from attachment of land (below 2.5 acres) in recovery proceedings. Farm unions wary, meeting todayThe protesting farm unions will take a call on their next course of action on Wednesday. Union leaders are apprehensive that the Bills will not stand the scrutiny of law. They are also disappointed that MSP has been guaranteed only for wheat and paddyJoint delegation meets GovernorWithin hours of passing the Bills, a joint delegation of the Congress, AAP, SAD and Lok Insaaf Party, led by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, met Governor VP Singh Badnore, seeking his approval to the Bills before sending these to the President.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-passes-bills-to-bypass-central-farm-laws-158659
