31-10-2020||Chandigarh||16 deaths, 503 fresh Covid cases in Punjab||Sixteen more people died from coronavirus in Punjab on Saturday as 503 fresh cases pushed the state’s infection tally to 1,33,658, according to a bulletin.So far, 4,203 people have died from the infection in the state.On Saturday, three deaths were reported from Bathinda, two each from Amritsar, Ludhiana, Mohali and Muktsar and one each from Faridkot, Ferozepur, Jalandhar, Moga and Tarn Taran, the medical bulletin said. The places which reported new coronavirus cases included Jalandhar (105), Mohali (74) and Bathinda (58).There are 4,257 active COVID-19 cases in the state as of now, according to the bulletin.A total of 328 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 1,25,198, it said.Eighteen patients are on ventilator while 97 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 26,04,208 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/16-deaths-503-fresh-covid-cases-in-punjab-163958
31-10-2020||Vibha Sharma||Amid fierce stand-off on farm laws with Punjab farmers,  Centre says paddy, cotton procurement at MSP going on ‘smoothly’ in state||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, October 31Amid the fierce stand-off on farm laws with farmers, particularly in Punjab, the Centre says paddy and cotton procurement at MSP are going on smoothly in the state. The Agriculture Ministry, which is keeping close tab on the ongoing operations, says of the total purchase of 197.19 LMT this season, Punjab has so far contributed 136.47 LMT – 69.21 per cent of total procurement across the country.In the ongoing Kharif Marketing Season (KMS) 2020-21, the government continues to procure Kharif 2020-21 crops at its MSP from farmers as per its existing MSP Schemes, as was done in previous seasons, according to the latest statement by the ministry.“Paddy procurement for Kharif 2020-21 is progressing fast in Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Tamil Nadu, Chandigarh, Jammu and Kashmir, Kerala and Gujarat with purchase of over 197.19 LMTs of paddy up to October 30 against the last year's 159.76 LMT, an increase of 23.43 per cent over last year. About 16.62 lakh farmers have already been benefited from the ongoing KMS procurement operations with MSP value of Rs 37,230.35 crore,” read the statement.   Besides, based on the proposal from the states, approval was accorded for procurement of 45.10 LMT of pulses and oilseeds from states, including Haryana and Rajasthan, under Price Support Scheme (PSS)."Procurement of seed cotton (kapas) under MSP is going on smoothly in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Telangana. Till October 30, 6,03,711 cotton bales valuing Rs 1,76,068 lakh has been procured benefitting 1,14,376 farmers," it added.As farmers get ready to escalate protests, officials claim the intent behind the Central Acts is to ensure that “farmers have a greater choice in the agreements they enter into and can mutually finalise prices with buyers based on quality, variety, etc. in addition to continued access to MSP procurement by the government”.Expanding the ambit of farmers protests against the three Central Agriculture Acts, major organisations will be holding countrywide ‘chakka jam’ (road blockade) on November 5 and a ‘Dilli chalo abhiyaan’ later in the month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-fierce-stand-off-on-farm-laws-with-punjab-farmers-centre-says-paddy-cotton-procurement-at-msp-going-on-smoothly-in-state-163920
31-10-2020||Chandigarh||AAP not be part of all-party delegation on Punjab farm bills||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) announced on Friday that they would not be a part of the delegation to be led by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to meet the President over the controversial farm laws.Leader of Opposition in Punjab Vidhan Sabha Harpal Singh Cheema said that the three farm Bills passed by the state government in  the specially convened Vidhan Sabha on October 20 by rushing amendments to negate the controversial laws would be meaningless and that it would not help protect the interests of the farmers.He said there was no point in meeting the President till the state Bills got the Punjab Governor's consent."Captain Amarinder Singh was trying to fool the people of Punjab, especially the farmers, by projecting himself as their saviour," he said.Cheema said that, instead of meeting the President, if CM Amarinder Singh had led a delegation of all parties, to meet the Prime Minister in this regard, the Aam Aadmi Party would have gladly accepted the offer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-not-be-part-of-all-party-delegation-on-punjab-farm-bills-163919
31-10-2020||---||Punjab witnesses decline in straw burning area this year: Chief secy||Chandigarh, October 31Punjab Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan, on Saturday, said the state has witnessed a decline in straw burning incidents this year as 5 per cent less stubble burning area have been reported this year in the state with the effective in-situ and ex-situ management of crop residue and concerted efforts to sensitise the farmers put in by the Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh-led state government.During a virtual meeting with the senior officers, all the Deputy Commissioners and Senior Superintendent of Police (SSPs) here, the Chief Secretary expressed satisfaction over the effective steps taken by the state government to end the hazardous practice of residue burning. Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan directed the officials to further intensify the efforts to eradicate the menace. She pointed out that as many as 137.89 lakh MT of paddy has been arrived in the mandis of the state so far, which is 33 per cent higher than the previous year.Instructing all the Deputy Commissioners and SSPs regarding the problem of crop residue burning, the Chief Secretary said the district administration should enforce the instructions strictly to ensure zero stubble burning in coming days though the incidents of burning of straw have been less so far as compared to last year.Total straw burning area this year is 7.49 lakh hectare as compare to 7.90 lakh hectare last year till date, which is 5.23 per cent less. 336 less cases of straw burning have been reported in a single day so far this year as compared to last year, while the arrival of paddy is 33 per cent higher.Additional Chief Secretary Development  Anirudh Tewari apprised the Chief Secretary on October 30 last year, 3,135 cases of straw burning were reported, which are 2,799 this year. In Bathinda district, 202 cases have been reported this year as compared to 343 cases of last year. Similarly, in Ferozepur 290 cases have been reported this year as compared to 328 of last year and in Mansa, 151 cases, instead of 285 of previous year, have been reported, while rest of the districts have also witnessed a decline.While taking stock of the procurement, lifting and payment of paddy, the Chief Secretary was apprised that out of total Rs 22,753.44 crore, payment of Rs 22,506.10 crore has been made to farmers so far and most of the paddy crop has been lifted.Simultaneously, reviewing the situation of COVID-19 in the state, the Chief Secretary instructed to expedite the RT-PCR testing. “At present, the number of Corona cases in the state has come down just because of the testing done in large quantity,” she said, adding that more tests should be conducted in crowded areas and offices.Instructing officers to keep special tab on the sale of firecrackers in view of the upcoming festivals amid COVID-19 situations, she said the entire process should be completed keeping in view the COVID-19 protocols and special attention should be paid to the sale of foreign firecrackers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-witnesses-decline-in-straw-burning-area-this-year-chief-secy-163918
31-10-2020||Balwant Garg||Gian Sagar medical college finds revival with change of ownership from scam accused to auto dealer||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, October 31Originally owned by Nirmal Singh Bhangu-main accused in Rs 45,000 crore Pearls group chit fund scam, Gian Sagar Medical College and Hospital in Banur which was closed in 2017 due to fiscal mismanagement with the fate of 1,700 students and 1,200 staffers hanging in balance, is once again on the path of revival after a Gurugram-based group in real-estate and automobiles business has taken over its management.After taking over the college’s Rs 200 crore liabilities, the new management was successful in getting Medical Council of India (MCI) and Punjab government’s approval to admit 150 students for MBBS course from this academic session.It was not only Gian Sagar Medical College which was shut down in 2017, but similar was the fate of Chintpurni Medical College of Pathankot. While fiscal mismanagement was the reason for the closure Banur-based college, Pathankot college was closed for various deficiencies. The closure of both these colleges was not only the loss of 300 MBBS seats to the medical aspirants but it had left the department of medical education and research in difficult situation when it had to shift about 700 MBBS students of Gian Sagar Medical College and 250 students of Chintpurni Medical college to other medical colleges in the state for the completion of their courses.Besides the shift causing extensive academic loss to the students of both these colleges, these students were deprived of Rs 9,000 per month stipend which is paid to as rotary internship stipend in the last year of their course. Even the post graduate courses students in Gian Sagar college were not paid their monthly stipend of Rs 48,720 after they shifted to other colleges.One of the old staff members and Dean of Gian Sagar, Dr A S Sekhon said the new management has paid the old pending power bills, salaries and has already started work to rebuild the college.Before this college was closed in 2017 it was imparting medical education to 700 MBBS students and another 1,000 students in the dental, nursing and physiotherapy streams. The medical college is attached to a 600-bed hospital with 10 super-specialty departments, spreading in about 100-acres area.In 2017, the college was closed, when trust chairperson Nirmal Singh Bhangu, was arrested by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the Pearl chit-fund scam.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gian-sagar-medical-college-finds-revival-with-change-of-ownership-from-scam-accused%C2%A0to-auto-dealer-163897
31-10-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Rohanpreet Singh's 'Ex-Calling' gets an angry reaction from wife Neha Kakkar; singer claims he is 'innocent'||Punjabi singer Rohanpreet Singh announced his latest single, Ex Calling, and his wife, singer Neha Kakkar, had the best reaction to it.Neha shared the cover art on Instagram, and added an angry emoji in the caption section; this was in reference to the title of the song.Husband Rohanpreet's comment came soon after the post was shared.@rohanpreetsingh ‘s #ExCalling 😡A post shared by  Neha Kakkar (Mrs. Singh) (@nehakakkar) on Oct 30, 2020 at 5:25am PDT“Nehu I swear maine kuch ni kiya (I swear I did nothing),” innocent Rohanpreet wrote.Neha’s brother, singer Tony Kakkar, commented: “Can’t wait for it,” followed by heart and fire emojis.Many others dropped laughing emojis.On Friday, Rohanpreet shared the cover art of Ex Calling, which also features actor Avneet Kaur, on Instagram.The poster also mentioned Neha, giving her ‘special thanks’.Recently, Neha added Mrs Singh to her name on Instagram. After a roka ceremony on September 21 in Mumbai, their wedding festivities moved to Delhi and Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rohanpreet-singhs-ex-calling-gets-an-angry-reaction-from-wife-neha-kakkar-singer-claims-he-is-innocent-163874
31-10-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||BJP Punjab youth general secretary quits party in protest against Centre's farm laws||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, October 31BJP Punjab youth general secretary Barinder Singh Sandhu has resigned from the party over the Centre’s farm laws, as he felt the union government is taking harsh steps towards Punjab in a bid to affect the state economically.In his letter to BJP state president Ashwani Sharma and BJP Youth Punjab president Bhanu Pratap Rana, he has stated that in the present scenario farmer unions, arhtiyas, small traders and labour sections are rightly fighting against the agricultural laws passed by the Centre.He said that seeing these prevailing circumstances, he was resigning from the post of BJP Punjab youth general secretary and party.Sandhu has also alleged that for last some time the Union government had adopted a wrong attitude towards Punjab as after agricultural laws in a bid to weaken the state economically it had stopped the movement of good trains and now had brought in the provision of five years’ sentence and a fine f up to Rs 1 crore for stubble-burning.He also condemned the words used by the BJP president for farmers a few days back. He claimed that he is a son of Punjab and rising above party lines he is standing with the farmers.This is the first resignation of a BJP leader in the Malwa region over the farm laws. Earlier, BJP general secretary and core committee member Malvinder Kang had resigned from the party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-punjab-youth-general-secretary-quits-party-in-protest-against-centres-farm-laws-163869
31-10-2020||Muktsar||2 held with stolen car, pistols||Man held with 20 gm heroinAbohar: The police have seized 20 gm heroin by intercepting Romy Singh, who belonged to Kotkapura, and was now living in Kothi Faiz on the Abohar-Sriganganagar road here. A court remanded him in police custody for further investigation. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-held-with-stolen-car-pistols-163736
31-10-2020||Hoshiarpur||Combine harvester caught fire||No one was injured in the incident as occupants jumped to safety. The fire was doused before it could spread to the standing crop||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/combine-harvester-caught-fire-163735
31-10-2020||Karnal||‘Abducted’ Karnal girl rescued from Punjab; 1 held||The Karnal police recovered a 13-year-old girl, who was allegedly kidnapped from Model Town late on Thursday evening, from Moga in Punjab within six hours of the incident.The police have arrested a youth Narinder, alias Rocky, of Vikas Colony in the city. A local court sent him to one-day police remand on Friday. The police are ascertaining the involvement of any other person and the reason behind the kidnapping.The PCR received a distress call from a family saying that their daughter was ‘kidnapped’. They also shared the number of a car. The PCR sounded an alarm in Karnal and adjoining districts. SP Ganga Ram Punia along with DSPs monitored the operation till the girl was traced.Notably, the girl came in Rocky’s contact through a social networking site. He lured her and called for a meeting. When she went to meet him near a park, he kidnapped her. “The girl has blamed Rocky for kidnapping her,” the SP said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abducted-karnal-girl-rescued-from-punjab-1-held-163615
31-10-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Eye on polls, Cong braces for long battle on farm laws||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 30As the BJP has accused the Congress government of weaving its political narrative against the Central farm laws, the party’s state leadership has fanned out in the field bracing itself for a long battle to keep the farmers in its saddle in the run up to the 2022 Assembly elections.It is a double whammy for the Congress as the Opposition has accused the party of playing a friendly match with the BJP by bringing in amendments that mean little for farmers. However, on the other hand Congress leaders accused the saffron party of using pressure tactics by summoning Raninder Singh, son of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, by the Enforcement Directorate and causing economic disruptions by stopping goods trains and withholding the Rural Development Fund (RDF).Sunil Jakhar, PPCC chiefTake stir to delhiBy not taking their agitation to Delhi, union leaders are only helping the BJP govt in furthering its propaganda against the farmers and painting Punjab as a belligerent state.In the mayhem, the main issue of farmers has been put on a back burner as politics has taken the centre stage.The Congress leadership that has been supporting farmers agitation on the issue of assured procurement and getting the MSP is now at its wits’ end in failing to convince farmer unions in lifting their blockades on rail tracks so that coal rakes reach thermal plants for producing electricity as it is crippling the state economy with little impact on the Centre. The leadership is worried about the shortage of various resources due to the economic disruption as it is bound to affect the day-to-day life of the common man.Sunil Jakhar, PPCC chief, said farmer leaders should see through the “evil designs” of the BJP to keep the focus away from it by continuing the agitation in Punjab. “By not taking their agitation to Delhi, the farmer leaders are only helping the BJP Government in furthering their propaganda against the farmers and painting Punjab as a belligerent state. By continuing dharnas in Punjab, the BJP is trying to create a rift between farmers and traders by triggering economic disruptions,” he said.Contrary to SAD allegations of playing a friendly match with the BJP, Jakhar accused the Akalis of shying away from taking on Modi on farmers’ issues saying it had a “tactical understanding” with the saffron party.Within the Congress, former Cabinet Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, while supporting the party’s stand on farmers’ issue, has sought that the state government should announce MSP for various crops.Political analysts feel that the BJP was trying to pay the Congress in its own coin by creating a situation that the issue become albatross around its own neck. To counter the BJP, the Congress has decided to take its fight to the national capital. The Chief Minister has directed party MPs to aggressively peruse with BJPs ministers the issues of stopping of good trains, holding of the RDF and pending dues under the GST. The Chief Minister has urged all MLAs to accompany him to meet the President on November 4.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/eye-on-polls-cong-braces-for-long-battle-on-farm-laws-163538
31-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Fazilka rice millers end strike, purchase basmati||Fazilka, October 30The purchase of basmati 1121 paddy has begun in Fazilka district, as the rice millers have called off their strike. The millers had boycotted the purchase on the plea that they were not allowed hassle-free purchase of basmati from other states.The basmati variety was sold at an average rate of Rs 2,481 per quintal. As many as 3,519 MT of paddy was purchased by traders from grain markets today.The price of aromatic basmati variety has opened at a comparatively less rate during the current season, as it was sold for Rs 2,900 to Rs 3,000 per quintal last year during the corresponding period.Harish Setia, a rice miller, said, “Now, 1509 and 1121 varieties of basmati paddy have been allowed to enter Punjab from other states, and we have decided to go ahead with the purchase.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fazilka-rice-millers-end-strike-purchase-basmati-163539
31-10-2020||---||Water supply hit as canal shut for cleaning||Bathinda, October 30 Residents of the city and villages in the district are perturbed over erratic supply of water with the closing of the Sirhind canal by the Irrigation Department for cleaning. Water is expected to be released in the canal after November 10. Repair and cleaning work is on in the Kot Bhai canal tributary and minors at different locations. The department carries out maintenance works during this time of the year as the requirement of water is usually less. Sources said earlier the department used to inform the Water Supply Department in advance about the repair and cleaning work, but no information was shared this year. As a result, water tanks in some parts of the city have gone dry. While Water Supply Department officials claim water is being supplied every alternate day, the crisis is set to deepen in the coming days with over two dozen waterworks getting affected due to the closure of canal’s minor distributaries. Gurdeep Singh, a BKU Sidhupur member, said: “Cotton farmers still need water for irrigation and from second week onwards, wheat sowing will start in some places. The department must expedite the cleaning work and restore the water supply through the canal.” Meanwhile, village residents have demanded partial release of water in the canal to avoid shortage in the waterworks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/water-supply-hit-as-canal-shut-for-cleaning-163540
31-10-2020||---||Punjab’s largest farm union to continue protest||Bathinda, October 30The BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), Punjab’s largest farmer union headed by its state president Joginder Singh Ugrahan at its state-level meeting today decided to continue protests outside the residences of BJP leaders, toll plazas, petrol pumps, shopping malls, silo warehouses, internal railway lines and private thermal plants against the Centre’s farm laws.Calling it a “vindictive” order against the farmers, they also demanded repeal of the ordinance on burning of straw in the name of pollution with a provision of five-year jail and a fine of Rs 1 crore to farmers.BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan said discussions were being held with all agitating organisations in the state to increase public pressure on the Union Government. He claimed that the Centre had already launched a vindictive attack by blocking train services for playing a leading role in raising farmers’ struggle across the country. He said Punjab won’t succumb to such pressure tactics. He also gave a call to strengthen the farmers’ struggle and take it to new heights.He said dharnas were being held on internal lines entering the thermal power plants of private companies at Rajpura and Banawali and no track of the Northern Railway had been blocked.A resolution was passed demanding the takeover of thermal plants of two private companies by the government and regular jobs for those working there. They also said coal for these plants be diverted to government units and the closed Bathinda plant be restarted.It was announced in the meeting that the struggle for repealing of agriculture laws, power amendment Bill and new pollution ordinance would continue.During their nationwide protest on November 5, his organisation would block roads at 23 places and would organise massive gatherings on the internal supply rail lines at a silo store in Dagru and two private thermal plants.Railway services further suspended||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabs-largest-farm-union-to-continue-protest-163541
31-10-2020||Ludhiana||Centre using repressive steps to crush farmers' stir: BKU||The BKU (Lakhowal) has said the decision of the Centre not to resume goods trains to Punjab and the denial of the Rural Development Fund (RDF) have made the people of the state feel like second-class citizens.BKU leaders Harinder Singh Lakhowal and Gurwinder Singh Koom Kalan have charged the Modi government at the Centre of adopting repressive steps to crush the agitation against farm laws.They claimed that the NDA Government was not only misleading the public about the ongoing protest by farmers but also the protesters were being humiliated by calling it as an agitation by political stooges or middlemen. “Fearing that the agitation by farmers in Punjab could spark similar agitations in other states, the Centre is going all out to make Punjab bankrupt by stopping freight traffic and denying the RDF,” said a BKU leader.Meanwhile, BKU Kadian president Harmeet Singh Kadian reiterated the demand that the government should either compensate the farmers for stubble management as per the directions of the apex court or itself take upon the task at its own cost.“Financially-stressed farmers are not in a position to bear the additional expenditure of stubble management and in the absence of financial support, they will be forced to continue with the practice of stubble burning,” he added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-using-repressive-steps-to-crush-farmers-stir-bku-163542
31-10-2020||---||No let-up in stubble burning, Punjab reports 16K cases in 10 days||Ludhiana, October 30With paddy stubble burning cases increasing rapidly despite a ban, 23,177 fire incidents were reported till Thursday evening during this kharif season. Stubble burning cases are being reported in more numbers from the Malwa region as compared to other parts of the state now.Around 7,105 cases were reported from September 21 to October 19 in the state. But from October 20 to October 29, 16,072 cases were reported.Straw fires ragefire incidents reported till ThursdayIt seems the cases are likely to rise in the coming days despite the authorities claiming a strict vigil.On October 29, a total of 1,541 cases were reported in the state. A maximum of 265 cases were reported from Sangrur, followed by Patiala (167), Ferozepur (156), Bathinda (127) and Mansa (102).Notably, the number of stubble burning cases in the state so far is higher than those reported during the corresponding period in the past three years. The number was 19,869, 15,042 and 22,258 in this period in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.Sudagar Singh Ghudani of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) said successive governments had failed to provide bonus or financial aid to farmers for managing stubble. He said, “As per a new order, there is a provision of five-year jail or fine up to Rs 1 crore for burning stubble. Such orders are anti-farmer. No action is taken against those responsible for 92 per cent of pollution but strict laws are enacted against the farmers. Earlier, three anti-farmers laws were enacted.”Krunesh Garg, Member Secretary, Punjab Pollution Control Board, said Rs 95.64 lakh penalty had been imposed against stubble burning at 3,541 sites. He said red entry had been imposed on 2,906 sites. Around 2,980 sites were being identified and action would be taken against these at the earliest, he said.2 farmers bookedMuktsar: In the past 24 hours, the district police have booked two farmers, including a woman, for allegedly burning paddy stubble in their fields. The accused have been identified as Shivraj Singh of Fatuhikhera village and Jaspreet Kaur of Bhitiwala village. Two separate cases have been registered against the accused under Sections 188 and 278 of the IPC at the Lambi police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-let-up-in-stubble-burning-punjab-reports-16k-cases-in-10-days-163543
31-10-2020||Chandigarh||Withdraw ordinance on air pollution: AAP to Centre||A delegation of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) led by Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema and state youth wing president Meet Hayer today sought immediate withdrawal of the ordinance on air pollution passed by the Union Ministry of Law and Justice.It also asked the Union Ministry of Consumer Affairs to withdraw its letter dated October 23, 2020, on Rural Development Fund and urged it to order immediate release of RDF worth Rs 1,000 crore to Punjab.The delegation described both decisions of the government at the Centre as premature and unilateral, which were imposed on farmers when they were “waging a battle against the three farm laws”. The delegates said the laws were a brazen attempt on the part of the Centre to meddle in the affairs of the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/withdraw-ordinance-on-air-pollution-aap-to-centre-163544
31-10-2020||---||Ramoowalia’s LBP now Lok Bhalai Mission||Anandpur Sahib, October 30Reviving the Lok Bhalai Party (LBP) ahead of the 2022 Assembly elections in the state, former Union Minister and member of the Legislative Council in Uttar Pradesh Balwant Singh Ramoowalia today announced the renaming of the party as Lok Bhalai Mission (LBM).He said he was all set to launch the Lok Bhalai Mission (mission for welfare of people), replacing his Lok Bhalai Party, in Punjab and had come here to offer prayers at Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib for its success.After paying obeisance at religious places, he would start his political activities in the state, he added.Ramoowalia had formed the LBP in 1997 and merged it in with the SAD when he joined the latter in 2011. Later, in November 2015, he quit the SAD to become a minister in the Samajwadi Party government headed by Akhilesh Yadav.Ramoowalia said all political parties had thrown away their ethics and were working for vested interest. The LBM would not hesitate to contest elections and would focus on issues related to peoples’ welfare.Nearly 40,000 members who were part of the LBP would now work under the banner of the LBM, he added. He urged people to support the SAD (Democratic) in the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) elections.Blaming SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal for his defection from the party, Ramoowalia claimed he had joined the SAD on issues regarding the welfare of the common man, but the former deputy chief minister didn’t bother about these, forcing him to leave the party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ramoowalias-lbp-now-lok-bhalai-mission-163545
31-10-2020||---||Tanda rape case: Punjab Police present challan in record nine days||Chandigarh, October 30The Punjab Police today presented a challan in the court of Additional District and Sessions Judge after completing investigations into the Tanda rape and murder case of a six-year-old Dalit girl in less than 10 days. The court fixed November 11 for the hearing in the case.A special prosecutor has been appointed for expeditious proceedings in the case, in which the state government has sought a fast-track trial to ensure speedy justice to the victim, who was brutally assaulted by the accused.The two accused in the case were arrested on the night of October 21, hours after the minor was raped and murdered before being burnt at a Tanda village. The BJP had sought to compare the incident with the Hathras case, where the victim’s family had demanded shifting of the case outside UP. Taking a serious note of the Hoshiarpur incident, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who also holds the Home portfolio, had directed the police to submit a chargesheet within 10 days.In pursuance of the directions, the police today submitted their final nine-page report in the special court of Neelam Arora in a record time of nine days after completing the probe in eight days after the incident.Giving details of the investigations, conducted by DSP (CAW) Madhvi Sharma under the supervision of SSP Navjot Mahal, DGP Dinkar Gupta said the probe was carried out expeditiously to ensure prompt justice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tanda-rape-case-punjab-police-present-challan-in-record-nine-days-163546
31-10-2020||Tarn Taran||Cops probe gangster’s role in Balwinder murder||The investigation by the district police into the murder of Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh has hinted at the involvement of gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria.Balwinder, who single-handedly fought militancy, was shot on October 16 on his residence-cum-school premises in Bhikhiwind township by two armed assailants.The Goindwal Sahib police today brought the gangster on a production warrant from the Patiala jail. He was medically examined at the local Civil Hospital. A senior officer said the police had got vital clues in the case.The officer said the district police were studying gang-related firing incidents in the district from 2016 to 2018. In 2016, gangster Dilbag Singh, alias Lamma, of Patti was killed and another injured in an exchange of fire between two factions of a gang near Bath village on the Tarn Taran-Khadoor Sahib road. In 2018, two gangsters were shot and two others injured in Goindwal Sahib town, 25 km from here. — OCSIT raids Ludhiana hideoutLudhiana: The SIT conducted a raid near Khajur Chowk in Salem Tabri here on Friday. Sources said the cops were looking for Bhatia at whose quarters the two suspects who killed Balwinder Singh stayed for a few days. Bhatia is an acquaintance of Akash, a friend of the suspects. The police have rounded up the owner. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cops-probe-gangsters-role-in-balwinder-murder-163547
31-10-2020||Chandigarh||100% tax waiver for bus operators till Dec 31||In a major relief to bus operators, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today ordered 100 per cent waiver on motor vehicle tax till December 31 for all stage carriage, mini and school buses, while deferring payment of tax arrears, without interest and penalty, to March 31, 2021.The move will result in a total financial benefit of Rs 100 crore to the transport sector, according to a spokesperson.The Chief Minister also directed Transport Minister Razia Sultana to discuss and resolve other issues of mini private bus owners by next week. The announcement was made by the CM at a virtual conference with private transport associations. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/100-tax-waiver-for-bus-operators-till-dec-31-163548
31-10-2020||Saurabh Malik||High Court junks plea to quash IAS cadre promotion select list||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 30The fallout of the Ravinderpal Singh Sidhu case continues. Six years after the non-tainted candidates were allowed to join as PCS (executive branch) officers, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has dismissed their plea for quashing the select list for promotion to the IAS cadre.The list was challenged on the ground that the names of certain respondent-candidates were recommended for promotion despite the fact that they were ineligible for promotion to the IAS cadre.The Bench was told that 28 posts of PCS (executive branch) were advertised in 1998. The petitioners, along with others, were appointed in 1999. But the services of the petitioners were terminated following the Ravinderpal Singh Sidhu scam in the Punjab Public Service Commission. In place of the petitioners, the respondent-candidates were appointed by re-conducting the examination in 2003.Taking up the matter, Justice Raj Mohan Singh asserted the services of all the appointees were terminated in 2002. The process of cancellation was in fact upheld right up to the apex court. The benefit of joining with two-and-a-half years of past service was given to non-tainted candidates. As such, the appointment of the respondents could not be held to be beyond cadre strength or beyond the advertised posts.Even otherwise, the selection of the private respondents was not assailed by the petitioners. They even participated in the ‘re-conduct examination 2003’ and some of them even became successful for further nomination to the IAS (Punjab cadre).Justice Raj Mohan Singh said the private respondents, being the appointees against substantive regular positions, were given further benefits after four, nine and 14 years of substantive service. The benefits were not assailed by the petitioners. The subsequent grant of benefits under the ACP scheme was never objected to by the petitioners.Justice Raj Mohan Singh further added the selection having been made about 16 years ago pursuant to the ‘re-conduct examination 2003’ could not be made nugatory by withholding further promotion of eligible candidates to the IAS (Punjab cadre). Admittedly, the petitioners did not have requisite experience under the rules. The appointments of answering respondents in 2004 could not be termed to be beyond cadre strength or not against substantive vacancies.“The process stood completed and seven candidates have already promoted to the IAS (Punjab cadre) in the DPC held on December 27, 2018...This petition is found to be devoid of merits and is accordingly dismissed,” the Bench concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-junks-plea-to-quash-ias-cadre-promotion-select-list-163549
31-10-2020||Amritsar||Cop hurt in firing, 2 held in Amritsar||A constable was reportedly injured in firing by gangsters in the Majitha road bypass area here today. Navjot Singh, posted in the CIA staff wing, sustained a bullet injury in the chest and was taken to a hospital.Following a tip-off that gangster Prince, alias Jahaj, was supplying drugs in the area, a car was signalled to pull over near the Verka bypass, but the occupants opened fire at the police and sped away. Later, Jahaj and Randhir Singh of Haryana were nabbed following a chase. Jahaj is facing 20 criminal cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cop-hurt-in-firing-2-held-in-amritsar-163550
31-10-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Pharmacy colleges under scanner, Sangrur DC orders probe||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, October 30The Deputy Commissioner today ordered a magisterial inquiry into allegations of some private pharmacy colleges in the Lehra sub-division charging “special fee” to “help” students during exams and complete their attendance.The inquiry was ordered after a video surfaced wherein some students are purportedly heard saying they appear only in exams. Another group of students claims college authorities help them during exams.In the video, a relative of one of the students is heard saying: “Everything is happening while sitting at home. But when money does not work, students have to go to the college for exams.”Another student, donning a mask, claims: “Though my college authorities had sought Rs 2.50 lakh for the D pharmacy course, they later took more money to help me during the exams.”Residents have expressed surprise at the working of the colleges and demanded a thorough investigation. “When students are not attending classes, how can college authorities complete their attendance? It is worrying that the state government has failed to fulfill its duty,” says a resident.“Bright students are at a disadvantage as students of such colleges get by using unfair means. The government must look into matter,” says a student of a local pharmacy college.DC Ramvir confirmed he had ordered a magisterial inquiry and directed the ADC General to hold a thorough investigation.“In the video, students can be heard talking about getting help during exams and visiting the college only to appear in tests. We need a thorough probe. Culprits will not be spared,” he adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pharmacy-colleges-under-scanner-sangrur-dc-orders-probe-163551
31-10-2020||GS Paul---||Migratory birds flock to Harike wetland||Tribune News Service Amritsar, October 30 With the advent of winter, birds from Siberia, Kazakhstan, Europe and other low temperature regions, including India, have started converging in a number of clusters at Harike, India’s second largest wetland, in Tarn Taran district. The reason behind the migration of birds is that lakes in those regions tend to freeze in winter. The winged guests are expected to stay at the wetland till March. The WWF, Wild Life and the Forest Department, which oversee the wetland, conduct the study and make arrangements to prevent poaching incidents.  Gitanjali Kanwar, coordinator, aquatic biodiversity, WWF (India), said the birds that had been spotted at the wetland include northern shoveler, pintail, pied avocets, gadwal, godwits, red shank, sandpipers, peregrine falcon, osprey, marsh harrier, coots, common pochard and ferruginous duck from Central Asian flyway. Similarly, spoon bill and coots from other water bodies within India could also be spotted enjoying in different zones of the lake. Species like ruddy shelduck generally arrived from Ladakh and Sikkim and gulls from Arctic Tundra region, Kanwar added.  In January, as many as 91,025 birds were spotted in Harike against 1.23 lakh in January last year.  “It is just an onset of representative birds. More species like bar headed gulls will join. The average number of birds recorded at Harike vary between 91,000 and 95,000, except between 2016 and 2019, when the figure crossed the 1 lakh-mark. It will be too early to give out the number of birds spotted this year, as migration continues till December and January,” she said. The wetland and the lake were formed by constructing headworks across the Sutlej in 1953. Since then, the wetland, spread about 41 sqkm, has become a favourite destination among rare varieties of avifauna.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/migratory-birds-flock-to-harike-wetland-163552
31-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Trying to buy power from other states: Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan||Ferozepur, October 30Attempts are being made to purchase power from other states. This was stated by Vini Mahajan, Chief Secretary (CS), today as she was here to take stock of various development works and other administrative matters concerning Ferozepur, Fazilka, Moga and Muktsar.She said coal reserves had virtually depleted due to suspension of freight trains amid farmers’ stir, and the thermal plants had stopped generating power.The Railways had resumed operations of goods train last week, but due to some sporadic incidents of protests by farmers, the services were again discontinued, hitting the state’s industrial sector.The CS reviewed the development projects related to all four districts. She also discussed vital issues such as stubble burning, GST collection, revenue matters, initiatives to prevent drug peddling, Covid situation and measures to prevent spread of dengue and typhoid. Mahajan also exhorted the DCs to ensure proper attendance of various government officials and field staff in offices, to avoid inconvenience to public.Mahajan said during the last three years, the state had witnessed investment worth Rs 65,000 crore by industrialists and private entrepreneurs. “Several projects have been completed. This has generated employment opportunities for the youth. The government is making efforts to boost the industry in the border areas of the state,” she said.Land banks were being created for the industrialists, who wanted to set up their projects in Punjab, Mahajan said, adding that the government was providing subsidy in agriculture sector for generating power with stubble.Regarding shortage of doctors in the state, Mahajan said the process to appoint 500 doctors had been completed. “After overcoming the shortage of medical officers in the districts, emphasis will be given to appointment of speciality doctors,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/trying-to-buy-power-from-other-states-chief-secretary-vini-mahajan-163553
31-10-2020||Abohar||Mobile phone snatcher held||The police have recovered 11 mobile phones that the accused, Davinder Singh Gaivi, a resident of Kothi Faiz, had allegedly snatched from different persons recently. He was held under Sections 379 B and 411 of the IPC. Meanwhile, two stolen motorcycles were recovered from Harpreet Singh Rana of Sarabha Nagar, and Lakhan, alias Lakhu, of Panjpeer Colony. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mobile-phone-snatcher-held-163554
31-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Dealers wary as tobacco maker’s premises raided||Mandi Ahmedgarh, October 30The Income Tax Department raided the establishments of a leading cigarette manufacturer of Nakodar, and his associates located in Ludhiana, Nakodar, Jalandhar and Kapurthala. The authorities had suspected the cigarette tycoon of amassing black money worth crores in the tobacco products business over a few years of manufacturing, but the investigation also revealed that the tobacco tycoon had spread tentacles in the field of manufacturing duplicate cigarettes of high standard and foreign brands, automobiles and real estate.Issued notice earlierCigarette and bidi dealers of the region and those dealing with the top notch cigarette manufacturer are now scared after receiving reports about action being taken against him. Some are occupied in getting account books updated, others are busy clearing stocks of cigarettes suspected to be specious. Stocks of cigarettes of renowned brands and foreign brands, but procured through a network of this manufacturer, are being cleared.However, exclusive dealers of Indian Tobacco Company Limited and other standard companies are glad as his alleged clandestine business activities to manufacture and supply duplicate cigarettes had drastically affected their balance sheets.A tobacco product dealer of the town said the cigarette manufacturer was close to senior functionaries of the state Taxation Department and would be able to come out of the present crisis. “Though we have never received direct supplies from him, our suppliers have been talking high of him,” said the dealer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dealers-wary-as-tobacco-makers-premises-raided-163555
31-10-2020||Chandigarh||Soon, state helpline  for jobless youth||The state government under the flagship programme ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar’ is all set to launch a Punjab Job Helpline. The Department of Employment Generation, Skill Development and Training will run a call centre to help youth of the state look for jobs. Queries of job aspirants will be answered in both Punjabi and English.Employment Generation Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said the 25-seat call centre would be established and would be open from Monday to Saturday and from 9 am to 5 pm. The minister said the call centre staff would help the job aspirants to register on pgrkam.com and update their profile. This would enable them to access available vacancies across the country.Besides, they would be apprised of available government schemes for skill development, self employment loans, etc. The job seekers would also be able to get information about various initiatives and services being run by the department, Channi added.Rahul Tewari, Secretary, Employment Generation, said the department was already providing these services via a web portal www.pgrkam.com and was now in the process of developing a mobile app. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/soon-state-helpline-for-jobless-youth-163556
31-10-2020||Sangrur||A first: 615 Sangrur cops transferred||In the biggest reshuffle effected in the district police department, SSP Vivek Sheel Soni has transferred 615 cops of various ranks to improve the functioning of the district police. The transfer orders have come after thorough scrutiny of the records.  After taking charge a few days ago, the SSP has been working to identify the cops, who have never worked in any police station. He has been checking records of cops, who are overstaying in some police stations of their ‘choice’ by using their connections.  Of 615 transferred cops, seven are Sub Inspectors, 16 are Assistant Sub Inspectors, 62 are head constables and 530 are constables.  The 42 km border with Haryana is challenging for the police, as smugglers try to supply drugs to their customers in Sangrur and other districts. There are many small passages in the area, and cops always face problems in breaking the supply line. “The increase in the number of trained cops will help the border district arrest smugglers,” said a senior officer.   “We had sought three options from each cop and transferred them accordingly. In the coming days, more transfers will take place,” said Soni. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/a-first-615-sangrur-cops-transferred-163557
31-10-2020||---||Fearing 2nd wave, Punjab to upgrade 3 district hospitals||Chandigarh, October 30Taking crucial lessons from the mid-September spike of Covid cases, the state has started strengthening its tertiary healthcare system.In a recent meeting, the government discussed the proposal of upgrading three district-level hospitals to tertiary ones. The hospitals which are to be upgraded include the district hospitals of Hoshiarpur and Ropar. At present, the state has five tertiary care hospitals.During the meeting, it was discussed that in a section of society, there was mistrust regarding government hospitals so a large number of patients preferred private healthcare institutions over government ones. The state reported 433 cases and 19 deaths in the past 24 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fearing-2nd-wave-punjab-to-upgrade-3-district-hospitals-163558
31-10-2020||Our Correspondent---||4 held for betting on IPL matches||Fatehgarh Sahib, October 30 The Mandi Gobindgarh police have arrested four persons for allegedly betting on IPL matches and recovered Rs 2.86 lakh in cash and five mobile phones. SSP Amneet Kondal said SP (Investigation) Jagjit Singh Jallah got a tip-off regarding gambling activity and duping of people through betting at a food outlet, Bawa Chicken Hut, on the GT Road. A police team led by the Amloh DSP raided the premises and arrested four persons —Ashutosh, alias Ashu, and Aman Jain, alias Leda, both of Khanna; and Sourav Jain, alias Mani, and Sunil Kumar, alias Sonu, both of Mandi Gobindgarh. During investigation, it was revealed that the suspects used to lure people into betting on IPL matches. The police will produce the four in a court and seek their police remand. A case under Sections 420 and 120B of the IPC and 13A/3/67 of the Gambling Act has been registered against the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-held-for-betting-on-ipl-matches-163559
