01-03-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine at 10 private hospitals and 15 govt hospitals from March 1||Covid-19 vaccination will be available for two groups of civilians from at least 10 private hospitals and 15 government hospitals in Calcutta from Monday. The Cowin 2.0 app will be activated at noon on Monday in the city so that those eligible can register themselves. Registrations will be accepted from all who will be 60 years or older on January 1, 2022, and those aged between 45 and 59 on January 1, 2022, with any of 20 specified chronic health disorders. They can register “anytime and anywhere”, the Centre said. The vaccination will be free at government hospitals while Rs 250 a dose will have to be paid at private hospitals. The private hospitals in Calcutta are AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria and Mukundapur, Apollo Gleneagles, Belle Vue, Medica Hospital, Fortis, Ruby Hospital, Sri Aurobinda Seva Kendra (EEDF), GD Hospital and Diabetes Institute and Woodlands. The government hospitals where the vaccine will be available are IPGMER & SSKM Hospital; NRS Medical College and Hospital; Calcutta Medical College and Hospital; RG Kar Medical College and Hospital; Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital; MR Bangur Hospital; Vidyasagar State General Hospital; Garden Reach State General Hospital; ESI Hospital, Maniktala; ID & BG Hospital; Lady Dufferin Victoria Hospital; Dr BC Roy PGIPS; Sambhunath Pandit Hospital; Chittaranjan Seva Sadan Hospital; and Calcutta School of Tropical Medicine. Officials said the lists were dynamic and might undergo changes after multiple rounds of meetings. The list from the Union home ministry includes names of some other hospitals in the city. The ministry released an initial list of over 8,600 private hospitals across the country. The Union health ministry said on Sunday that appointments can be booked from 9am on Monday. The noon launch was decided for Calcutta after a meeting between senior Bengal government officials and hospitals. The private hospitals have been asked to vaccinate 50 people each on Monday. The target includes 30 beneficiaries above the age of 60 and 20 with co-morbidities. The drive is expected to start from around 12.30pm at the private hospitals in Calcutta. Eligible persons may register via the Co-Win2.0 portal through mobile phones or through the Aarogya Setu app, the ministry said. With one mobile number, a person may register up to four beneficiaries, but the photo ID card for each beneficiary has to be different. The slot for the second dose will be booked at the same Covid vaccination centre on the 29th day of the appointment for the first dose. If a beneficiary for some reason cancels the first dose, appointments for both doses will be cancelled. People unable to register in advance may seek spot registrations using any of the photo IDs — Aadhaar card or letter, electoral photo ID card, passport, driving license, PAN card, pension document, or NPR smart card — required for advance registration. The Centre is currently using two vaccines in the campaign — Covishield, the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine made by the Serum Institute of India, and Covaxin, the homegrown vaccine made by Bharat Biotech.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-127
01-03-2021||Calcutta||Robotic arm reduces margin of error in knee-replacement surgery||A robotic arm has significantly reduced the margin of error in knee-replacement surgery, doctors at a city hospital said on Saturday. In a traditional surgery, doctors remove the damaged surface of the knee joint and replace it with an implant made of metal and plastic. In a robotic knee replacement, surgeons build a virtual model of the patient’s knee. The model is fed into the robot, which is used by the surgeon to insert the implant with precision. “In the standard knee-replacement surgery, the human eye of a surgeon can detect errors over three degrees. Deviations of three degrees and below go undetected. The robot has reduced that error margin to 0.5 degrees,” said Rakesh Rajput, director, department of orthopaedics, CMRI. The surgeon, who has led close to 50 robot-assisted knee-replacement operations since January last year, spoke about the technology at a news conference on Saturday. Rajput reiterated that the robot only assisted the surgeon, who was still very much in control of the procedure. “The arm allows a surgeon to place the implant with a greater degree of accuracy, preventing accidental damage of the surrounding tissues, a common problem in traditional knee-replacement surgeries,” he said. Increased precision leads to a reduced rehabilitation period. The robot is imported and costs around Rs 5 crore, said an official of the hospital. The cost of a traditional knee-replacement surgery at the hospital is around Rs 2 lakh and a robot-assisted surgery costs around Rs 2.3 lakh, he added. On Saturday, some of the patients who have undergone robot-assisted knee replacement at the hospital shared their stories. Prasanta Das, 55, was one of them. Das used to be a trekker and was dejected in the run-up to the surgery because he thought he had to let go of his passion permanently. “I was amazed that I could walk just two days after the surgery. I have not given up hope and want to go on a trek again,” said Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-127
01-03-2021||Calcutta||Covid vaccination for comorbid people to start from Monday||The Bengal health department has said Covid-19 vaccination for people above 59 and those between 45 and 59 with comorbidities is set to start across the state on Monday. The Co-Win 2 app, the digital platform for Covid vaccination across the country, should be up and running from around Monday noon, officials of the department said. The app has to be used for online registration to get vaccinated. Health department officials said they were not expecting all designated hospitals and clinics to start administering the doses to the two groups from Monday because of technical and logistical issues. The state government has prepared a document with answers to some frequently asked questions. Metro takes a look at those questions and the answers. Who are eligible for the doses? People who turn 60 by January 1, 2022, and those between 45 and 59 and are suffering from comorbidities. How to register? One can register online by downloading the Co-Win 2 app. There is an option for on-the-spot registration in government hospitals. Facilitators at helpdesks in government hospitals will help you register through Co-Win. Prior registration is must for getting the doses at private hospitals. Appointments will close at noon on the day prior to the vaccination date. If I cannot pre-register online, how do I register on the spot? You can contact local government health workers, who will guide you to any government vaccination centre for on-the-spot registration and vaccination on the same day. Is it necessary for a person who has recovered from Covid to take a vaccine? It is advisable to receive the complete schedule of a Covid vaccine irrespective of past history of infection. This will help develop better immune response against the disease. How many doses do I need to take? Two doses at an interval of 28 days. Can I choose a vaccine? Covishield and Covaxin are the two vaccines approved in India for emergency use. You cannot choose your vaccine. Which vaccine will be given to you will be decided according to allocation. Will I get the vaccine for free? Vaccines will be given for free at government hospitals and clinics. Private hospitals can charge up to Rs 250. Can I cancel my appointment? Yes. But if you cancel the appointment for the first dose, the appointment for the second dose, too, will be cancelled. The option for cancellation of the appointment for the second dose will not be available. What documents are needed for registration? One of the following: Aadhaar card/letter; electoral photo identity card; passport; driving licence; PAN card; NPR Smart Card; pension document with photograph. Carry the document used for registration to the vaccination centre. How do I get to know the sites of vaccination? The list of sites will soon be uploaded on the website www.wbhealth.gov.in. Besides, the list can also be seen during registration through Co-Win. What are the comorbidities that make one eligible for the vaccine? ⚫ Heart failure with hospital admission in past year ⚫ Persons with devices implanted in the heart ⚫ Congenital heart disease ⚫ Coronary artery disease and other cardiac ailments ⚫ Angina and hypertension /diabetes on treatment ⚫ CT/MRI documented stroke ⚫ Pulmonary artery hypertension ⚫ Diabetes (more than 10 years or with complications) and hypertension on treatment ⚫ Kidney/liver/hematopoietic stem cell transplant recipients or those on wait-list ⚫ End-stage kidney disease on haemodialysis/CAPD ⚫ Current prolonged use of oral corticosteroids/immunosuppressants ⚫ Decompensated cirrhosis ⚫ Severe respiratory disease with hospitalisations in last two years ⚫ Lymphoma /Leukaemia/ Myeloma ⚫ Diagnosis of any solid cancer on or after July 1, 2020, or currently on any cancer therapy ⚫ Sickle cell disease/bone marrow failure/aplastic anemia/Thalassemia major ⚫ Primary immunodeficiency diseases/HIV infection ⚫ Persons with disabilities due to intellectual disabilities /muscular dystrophy/acid attack with involvement of respiratory system/persons with disabilities having high support needs/multiple disabilities including deaf-blindness. Who can certify that a person has comorbidity? A medical practitioner registered with the Medical Council of India and the West Bengal Medical Council. Do I need the certificate while taking the vaccine? Yes, the recipient must carry the certificate to the vaccination centre. Can I change/correct details later? Details required during registration can be amended or deleted until the first dose of the vaccine has been given. After the first dose, no changes can be done except the date of the second dose (up to 42 days from the first dose). Do I need to wear a mask after taking the vaccine? Yes, one should continue to practice Covid-appropriate behaviours like wearing masks, washing or sanitising hands frequently and maintaining a physical distance of 6ft from another person.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-127
01-03-2021||Calcutta||Canteens set to reopen on Shibpur's IIEST campus||Canteens and stores on the IIEST campus in Shibpur are set to reopen on Monday, said an official of the institute. The four canteens on the campus and the stores have been ordered to reopen “with immediate effect” as employees have been attending office since February 22. An order signed by the acting registrar on February 25 contains instructions for reopening of the canteens and shops. The official said all teachers and other employees have been asked to attend office on the campus. “We have decided to reopen the canteens so that these employees don’t face any inconvenience,’’ said Nirmalya Bhattacharyya, the deputy registrar (academic) and PRO. The canteens have remained shut since March last year with the onset of the lockdown. An official of the institute said the research scholars and postgraduate students had also been brought to the campus in compliance with Centre’s guideline and they, too, would need canteens. “The canteens and the stores have been sanitised. They will reopen tomorrow,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-128
01-03-2021||Calcutta||Kolkata Moto Fest: Machines battle it out in Singur's Shyam Business Park||A lot of heat and dust was raised over the weekend of February 21-22 at Shyam Business Park in Singur as two-wheelers and four-wheelers spun across mud tracks, raced through circuitous routes and recorded best timings, at Kolkata Moto Fest 2021 in association with The Telegraph. Known names from the eastern India rally circuit beat the corona blues to participate in this mudfest with their machines ranging from the capable Gypsy to the rally veteran Cedia, to the modified Swifts, Ignises, Citys, Balenos and even a Chevy Sail. It is often said those who love their cars won’t take them to rally, but it is here in the dirt tracks of Singur that the capabilities of both men and machines came to be tested. Participants competed in eight categories depending on the engine size and whether the vehicles were two-wheel drives or four-wheel drives. There was a ladies’-only category, too and there was an open category where anyone could participate irrespective of the engine size. The motor fest was not so much about speed as it was about skill and negotiating the soft earth with wheels. As engines revved, vehicles roared through in a haze of dust often with the headlights on as daylight was eclipsed by the dust raised by the speeding wheels. “It was a test of skill, knowing which gear to engage and when to step up acceleration. Many got stuck as wheels spun over soft earth without moving an inch,” said Debasish Bhattacharjee, of the Kolkata Automotive Sports Association. Two-wheelers also had eight competitive categories based on engine size and whether they were two-stroke or four stroke vehicles. There were a number of Hero Impulses, Karizmas and Royal Enfields pitted against each other. The most challenging was the 80-metre sand track in the circuit. Two-wheelers had a tough time negotiating the stretch as riders used their legs to propel the vehicles as the tyres remained ineffective on sand. “It’s a lot of hard work riding through sand,” said a rally veteran. “You have to negotiate sand on first gear and keep moving the vehicle to avoid getting stuck.” Four-wheelers, too, slowed down on the sand track and put on speed only when wheels hit the gravel. While there were a number of winners with many ties particularly in the four-wheeler category, the overall best performer at the moto fest was Subir Roy among four-wheelers and Uday Ganguli among two-wheelers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-128
01-03-2021||Calcutta||New Town authorities issue advisory to set up bicycle docking stations||The New Town authorities have issued an advisory to all residential and commercial buildings to set up bicycle docking stations, an officer of New Town Kolkata Development Authority said. “Hidco has constructed bicycle docking stations near the Nazrul Tirtha bus stand and in front of Hidco Bhavan. We want all residential and commercial buildings to build such stations and ensure that those using bicycles don't park them on pavements or thoroughfares,” the official said. The bicycle has made a comeback on the city’s streets with many preferring to pedal to work and avoid travelling on overcrowded buses amid the Covid-19 pandemic. In New Town, unlike parts of Calcutta, cycle tracks run along the service lanes of the Major Arterial Road in several places. And now the authorities will make more space for bicycles by placing orange traffic cones along the extreme left flank of the service roads in the township. According to another NKDA official, a meeting was held to discuss ways to promote bicycling in New Town and to ensure that residents as well as office-goers choose bicycles as a means of last-mile connectivity. A committee comprising NKDA officials, representatives of NGOs and educational institutions, and cycling enthusiasts has been formed. The committee will help promote bicycling by holding regular workshops, where novices will be taught how to ride and experienced riders will be taught good practices and road behaviour. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said they would also give out freebies such as Eco Park tickets to those riders who observe proper traffic rules and use bicycle tracks. “Cycling has zero carbon footprint and we want to encourage this mode of transport,” said Sen. According to him, a number of women participants have stepped forward to learn cycling at the sessions held in New Town. New Town has a dedicated 17-km-long bicycle track and an app-based public bicycle sharing scheme was relaunched last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-128
01-03-2021||Calcutta||Government schools advance higher secondary practical exams||Government schools are advancing the higher secondary practical exams because of the possibility of central forces taking over the campuses in the run up to the Assembly elections, which will be held in eight phases from March 27 to April 29. The state HS council had earlier announced that the practical exams would be held from March 10 to 31. The announcement of the election dates prompted the council to allow the schools to bring forward the exam schedule. Days after the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education granted the relaxation on February 24, Uttarpara Government School announced that they would start the practical exams on March 1. Saugata Basu, a teacher of the school, said the practical exams would be over by March 11. “Cops from the local police station have visited our school twice to conduct preliminary inspections ahead of the entry of central forces. Once the forces come, the students and the teachers will be barred from entering the campus. So, we had no option but to bring forward the exams,” said Basu, the general secretary of the government school teacher’s association. Tapan Samanta, the headmaster of the school, said the practical exams would start with physics. A school in North 24-Parganas said the exams would start on March 4 and be over by March 14. “Students will miss out on the bare minimum preparatory classes if the schedule of the practical exams is brought forward. But we have little choice,” said the head of the institution. Shampa Nayek, the headmistress of Alipore Multipurpose Government Girls School, said they were planning to start the practical exams on March 8. In Bengal, the schools reopened for the students of Classes IX to XII on February 12 following a Covid-induced closure for 11 months. One of the objectives behind the resumption of in-person classes was to enable the HS students in the science stream to get some hands-on training before they appear in the practical exams. “The council had announced the exam dates in late December and the topics to be covered in the practical papers on January 18, without saying whether the schools could reopen for practical classes,” said Basu, of the government school teacher’s association. “The delay in announcement on reopening by the school education department will now cost students dear.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-128
01-03-2021||Calcutta||Covid impact: Online setback for pre-primary school students ||Children in pre-primary schools are missing out on key lessons on social and conversation skills and how to share attention in the absence of in-person classes. The Covid pandemic has not only impacted the senior students but also children who had just started going to school or were about to. Teachers point out that students learn a lot more in school than letters and numbers — they learn from the environment, pick up vocabulary by listening to teachers, develop a work habit and take the first steps towards becoming independent. In the absence of in-person classes, which have been suspended since March last year as a precaution against Covid, the little learners are being deprived of the much-needed hand-holding by teachers. Across schools teachers are taking classes online but several of them said they were noticing areas where children are falling behind. Classrooms are designed in a way that they become learning spaces, said teachers. Suman Sood, the mentor of the Calcutta, Odisha and Kerala territories of Early Childhood Association, a forum of pre-schools, said there was “a prepared environment in school” that is missing in homes. Loreto House, for example, has a book corner, from where a child can pick up any book. Similarly, the school has a nature corner for the children to plant seeds. All these are part of the learning process. “Children are split into smaller groups and each group does a different activity. Teachers monitor them. In an online class, on the other hand, all of them do the same activity,” said Aruna Gomes, the principal of Loreto House. “For example, in an online class, all children are involved in making play dough, which helps hand-eye coordination. But this is not always possible for teachers to gauge virtually,” she said. In a school environment, children pick up a lot of things such as vocabulary automatically by listening to teachers or from observations. “Spoken English skills, making conversations, pronunciation and enunciation have been compromised. Earlier, too, they would make mistakes but continuous feedback from teachers in school would help them get corrected,” said Nupur Ghosh, the vice-principal of Mahadevi Birla World Academy. The school acts as a leveller. Though children come from various environments, there is a “uniformity in school”, which is missing across homes. Many children come from nuclear homes, where they are surrounded by adults and are often the sole object of attention. “In school, they are in the company of other children of their age and they learn to share the attention of one teacher. They are one in many and that motivates them to do things,” said Suvina Shunglu, the principal of Sri Sri Academy. Children also learn by imitating each other. “The school is a space for social interaction and making friends. They learn how to behave in front of outsiders or strangers,” said John Bagul, the principal of South City International School. “In school, she would have learnt with other children, but at home I have to sit with her... so that she finishes her work,” said the mother of a four-year-old. “Social and interactive skills are getting impacted but parents can give stimulation at home with certain kinds of toys, blocks, puzzles that will help the child to learn and pick up things,” said Devi Kar, the director of Modern High School for Girls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-128
01-03-2021||Calcutta||Two killed  in separate road accidents,  one arrested||Two men died in separate road accidents in the city since Saturday evening. A man riding a motorbike died after the two-wheeler was hit by a lorry on BT Road early on Sunday. Two others who were riding pillion got injured. They have been admitted to hospital. The lorry driver has been arrested, police said. On Saturday evening, a  man travelling in a small truck died after the truck was hit by a bus on Basanti Highway. Four others travelling in the truck got injured. Drivers of both the vehicles are absconding.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-128
01-03-2021||Business||Sensex soars 750 points as investors cheer Q3 GDP data||The benchmark BSE Sensex surged nearly 750 points and NSE Nifty rallied over 232 points on Monday as investors cheered the domestic economy returning to positive territory after two quarters of contraction. The 30-share BSE index briefly traded above the 50,000-mark during the mid-session, before ending at 49,849.84, showing a rise of 749.85 points or 1.53 per cent. Likewise, the NSE barometer Nifty settled with a gain of 232.40 points or 1.60 per cent at 14,761.55. Of the Sensex constituents, 29 closed with gains. Top performers were PowerGrid, ONGC, Ultratech Cement, Asian Paint, Kotak Bank and Titan rising as much as 5.94 per cent. After two consecutive quarters of contraction, the Indian economy has finally entered an expansionary path. The Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew 0.4 per cent in the October-December 2020 period compared with the same period a year back, data released by the National Statistics Office on Friday showed. Analysts said, the high-frequency indicators were pointing towards the fact that the domestic economy is slowly entering the recovery path. On Friday,the BSE Sensex had crashed 1,939.32 points or 3.80 per cent its worst one-day fall since May 4 last year. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty had plunged 568.20 points or 3.76 per cent its biggest single-day drop since March 23 last year. Foreign investors had sold equities worth Rs 8,295.17 crore on a net basis on Friday, as per exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses closed significantly higher amid some stability in bond markets after last week's turmoil. Further, progress in the US stimulus package also lent some support to investor sentiments globally. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.88 per cent lower at USD 65.39 per barrel. On the forex market front, the rupee dropped 8 paise to end at 73.55 against the US dollar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-122
01-03-2021||Business||NSE, BSE say all operations working fine||Leading stock exchange NSE on Monday said all its operations are functioning in a normal manner, amid reports of a possible technical glitch. BSE too said all its segments were working fine. The statements came amid HDFC Securities tweeting at around 10 am saying that it has blocked trading in NSE cash due to a technical glitch. "We have blocked trading in NSE cash due to a technical glitch. We request our customers to place cash orders on BSE. All other segments are working fine. Apologies for the inconvenience caused," HDFC Securities said in the tweet. Around 20 minutes later, HDFC Securities tweeted saying, "you can place orders through NSE cash segment now". In a statement, a NSE spokesperson said that all the operations on its platforms were "functioning smooth and normal". At little past 10.10 am, BSE tweeted that there was no issue on fresh orders or square-offs at the exchange. "... all segments working fine statement was given in response to brokers and investors reporting the problem on twitter on a competing exchange today morning. No one has reported any problems in trading at @bseindia today or last week any day," BSE CEO Ashish Chauhan said in a tweet later. The latest episode comes within days of NSE halting trading activities for nearly four hours on Thursday due to technical glitch.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-123
01-03-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 500 points in early trade||The BSE benchmark Sensex rebounded over 500 points in the opening session on Monday as investors cheered the domestic economy returning to growth in the October-December period after two quarters of contraction. The 30-share gauge was trading at 49,608.97, showing a gain of 508.98 points or 1.04 per cent in early session. While the broader NSE Nifty was trading higher by 153.15 points or 1.05 per cent at 14,682.30 in opening deals. The Sensex rally was driven by gains across the board as 27 constituents were trading in the green. On Friday, the BSE Sensex had crashed 1,939.32 points or 3.80 per cent to end at 49,099.99 its worst one-day fall since May 4 last year. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty had plunged 568.20 points or 3.76 per cent to close the session at 14,529.15 the biggest single-day drop since March 23 last year. Meanwhile, foreign investors sold equities worth Rs 8,295.17 crore on a net basis on Friday, as per exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia on Monday, shares were trading higher in afternoon trade amid some stability in bond markets after last week's turmoil. Further, progress in the US stimulus package also lent some support to investor sentiments globally. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.58 per cent lower at USD 65.59 per barrel. Analysts said, the high-frequency indicators were pointing towards the fact that the domestic economy is slowly entering the recovery path. After two consecutive quarters of contraction, the Indian economy has finally entered an expansionary path. The Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew 0.4 per cent in the October-December 2020 period compared with the same period a year back, data released by the National Statistics Office on Friday showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-123
01-03-2021||Business||Happily retired||The joint family structure was a bulwark of Indian society for much of its history. This structure had an inherent social security system that took care of the elderly. Industrialisation and increase in urban migration in the last few decades has, however, made nuclear families more popular. This fundamental shift in the social fabric has created the need for the elderly to build financial security for themselves and for the younger generations to prepare for their future. According to the United Nations Population Fund and HelpAge India, by 2030, close to 12.5 per cent of India’s population will be over 60, and by 2050, this number will increase to 20 per cent. In the absence of adequate social security systems in India and rising inflation, it is crucial for the current working population to embark on a retirement planning journey. Start early The first step is to arrive at a suitable retirement income. To do that, identify your current and future income, determine your time horizon, forecast expenditure and accordingly choose financial instruments that will help you arrive at that number. It is important to lay the groundwork as early as possible to reap the benefits of compounding. People starting early have more time on their hands to accumulate their desired retirement capital at a comfortable pace than those who start late. For instance, consider a 30-year-old and a 40-year-old working professional. Both are aiming towards  building a retirement capital worth Rs 1 crore by the time they reach 60. Assuming the rate of return to be 8 per cent, the 30-year-old professional would have to approximately invest Rs 1 lakh annually for the next 30 years to reach Rs 1 crore. His total investment would be Rs 30 lakh, whereas our 40-year-old has to shell out Rs 2 lakh annually for the next 20 years, making his total investment reach Rs 40 lakh. Apart from starting early, acute planning and discipline is needed to succeed in this endeavour. Wrapping up your big-ticket expenditure and closing all your loans such as home, vehicle, personal etc before your retire is vital, as carrying debt into your retirement could lead to a major drain on finances. In addition, give due importance to legacy planning in terms of how much to leave for your spouse and/or children. The average life expectancy for both men and women has inched towards 70 years and is projected to climb up further in the coming decades. Therefore, the retirement planning process should be taken very seriously as it will ensure a regular source of income to lead a financially independent retired life. Life insurance companies have developed various tools and calculators which aid individuals in estimating the corpus required to be built and the subsequent income stream. It is common knowledge that anyone who survives till 80 years has to put aside a lot more savings than someone who survives till the age of 70 to avoid the risk of outliving their savings. Annuity products offer a guaranteed regular income during the lifetime of an individual. Annuity products Life insurance firms provide various pension and annuity products. Broadly, there are two types of annuity products — immediate and deferred annuity. Immediate annuity: The premium is paid in a lump sum and the policyholders begin to receive pension immediately in the form of a guaranteed payout at regular intervals for the rest of their lives. This plan in particular is designed for the 60-plus population looking to remove the reinvestment risk attached to fixed-income instruments. As the interest rates fluctuate every quarter, the elderly relying on these instruments might have to deal with the risk of getting a lower rate of interest at the time of reinvesting the principal. Under immediate annuity plans, the policyholders have a steady amount of cash flowing in as long as they live, irrespective of interest rate fluctuations in the fixed income market. Let us understand it with an example. Venugopal Reddy, after retirement as a manager in a private manufacturing company, has been living in Vizag since 2014. On retirement, he invested all his provident fund and gratuity money in a financial instrument giving fixed monthly interest. The rate of return offered then was 8.80 per cent. It was enough for Reddy to meet his financial needs. Cut to 2020, the rate of return has declined to 4-5 per cent, reducing Reddy’s monthly income by half. If Reddy had invested a sizeable chunk of his retirement wealth in a life insurance immediate annuity plan, he may not have faced this issue because of the plan’s fixed rate of return. There are various options offered under the annuity plan by life insurance companies. One of the most preferred one is called ‘‘Joint life with return of purchase price’’, where the policyholders will get the pension amount as long as they are alive. After the demise of one, the spouse will get the same pension amount. After the demise of both, the legal heir would inherit the lump-sum amount which was paid at the time of purchase. Deferred annuity: Under this plan, a policyholder can invest a lump-sum now and choose to start the pension income in the near future. Typically, in such products, the policyholder can choose to ‘‘defer’’ the start of pension for up to 10 years.  It is best suited for people who are in their late 40s and early 50s, who are working but for whom retirement is in the foreseeable future. The key benefit is the guaranteed income for whole life and the fact that the policyholder knows exactly how much income he or she will be getting at the time of buying the policy. Retirement may be the end of a career but it is also the start of something new. It is an opportunity to experiment and explore, to engage in pursuits you care about and perhaps to reinvent your legacy. The writer is chief distribution officer, ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-123
01-03-2021||Business||DVC on course to meet generation target ||Damodar Valley Corporation hopes to be close to the generation target set by the Central Electricity Authority by the end of the current fiscal despite the setback in the first quarter following the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. The generation target in 2020-21 for DVC units across Bengal and Jharkhand was 38,600 million units (MU), according to CEA records. Ram Naresh Singh, who had assumed charge as the chairman of DVC in January, said the overall generation by March-end would be close to the target. “In the first quarter of 2020-21, we lost around 3400 MU of generation. We have tried to make up for that loss by maximising our generation and maintaining good coal reserves and scheduling. I am sure with the level of generation we are maintaining today, in February itself we will exceed 34,000 MU and by March we would be in a position to touch 38,000 million units,” Singh said. DVC had generated 37,200 MU in 2019-20. Plant load factor, a measure of generation efficiency, has also improved to around 61 per cent after falling to 47 per cent in the first quarter. Singh, who was earlier with Power Grid Corporation as executive director, said generation improved despite the challenges faced in the maintenance and overhauling of units that were deferred because of the pandemic. “We have found that certain units are in a very critical condition and we must maintain those units before the summer season when demand is expected to pick up,” Singh said. Around 500MW capacity is in the pipeline for overhaul at Mejia in Bankura district of Bengal and Chandrapura in Bokaro district of Jharkhand. “We have set a target to have both units running by March so that in the first quarter all our units will be available for operation,” said Singh. He added that his focus for the corporation is to scale up capacity and increase revenue and efficiency while addressing the challenge of reducing cost. “Today we are a 7,000MW company. Going forward some units may get retired because they are old units. So, we have to go for further capacity addition. By 2030, our company should be 10,000MW plus,” he said. New capacity is expected in the renewable sector with a 1500MW pump storage project in the pipeline near Bokaro and the corporation is also exploring opportunities in the solar field. Mining ambition Singh said mining is another area where the corporation wants to make inroads. It has two blocks under development - Tubed in Jharkhand and Khagra Joydeb in Bengal - with a combined capacity of 9 million tonnes per annum. At present, DVC consumes around 23-25 mtpa of coal. “We are targeting to start mining by this year's end. Once we have our coal mines operational, our energy charge would be reduced and we will be more competitive,” Singh said. DVC is expecting stage 2 forest clearance for Tubed by March end, but progress on Khagra Joydeb is expected after the election in Bengal. The immediate challenges, however, are managing high interest payments and recovering dues from Jharkhand state discom. Singh said DVC has initiated discussion with bankers on credit lines at lower interest and is looking to retire short-term debt of around Rs 7,000 crore through cash flow. “We are also constantly in discussion with Jharkhand who are also stakeholders of DVC to clear the monthly bills,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-123
01-03-2021||Business||Telecom spectrum auctions to start today||Reliance Jio has obtained the most eligibility point among the bidders of telecom spectrum auction that is scheduled from Monday by paying the highest amount of earnest money deposit. Jio has put earnest money deposit of Rs 10,000 crore earning 73,007 eligibility points. Bharti Airtel has deposited Rs 3,000 crore and it has earned 24,924 eligibility points, while Vodafone has 6,153 eligibility points on deposits of Rs 475 crore. Its higher eligibility point allows Jio to bid for a greater chunk of the spectrum in a circle in the initial bidding. Auctions will start for seven bands on Monday but the government has kept 5G spectrum out of the sale. However, brokerages have forecast that over 80 per cent of the spectrum would remain unsold and the operators would preserve cash for the 5G auction likely in the latter half of the year. The auction of 2,251.25 megahertz of spectrum will be in 7 frequency bands between 700 megahertz and 2,500 megahertz. The government can earn Rs 3.92 lakh crore at the floor price. “This auction is critical for RJio, with renewal of 800MHz that is expiring in July-21. Bharti Airtel renewals are mainly in 1,800MHz and in 8 of 22 circles,” brokerage CLSA said. “With significant spectrum unsold, there would be a follow-on crash in reserve prices and this will be a big positive for 5G auctions, as there will be good supply with 275MHz available in 3.3-3.6GHz,” CLSA said in its  research report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-123
01-03-2021||Business||Questions over Jio 2G upgrade plan||The latest JioPhone offer is unlikely to give any major headache to its rivals as the high upfront commitment may not result in any major subscriber churn, says analysts. Reliance Jio Infocomm (Jio) has announced a offer that bundles the JioPhone device and two years of unlimited services for Rs 1,999 and Rs 1,499 for one year as part of its ‘‘2G-mukt Bharat’’ plan through affordable services. This will come along with 2GB data every month. Through the latest offer, Jio is targeting 300 million subscribers in India who it says are ‘‘trapped’’ in the 2G era and unable to access basic features of the internet. The latest offer will be available from March 1. According to the company, 2G customers spend about Rs 5,000 over a period of two years which include a total recharge of Rs 3,600 and a feature phone in the price range of Rs 1,200-1,500 a unit. It pointed out that feature phone users also pay Rs 1.2-Rs 1.5 every minute of voice call and Rs 45-50 every month to keep their connections active. However, brokerages feel that its offer will not lead to any major disruption though it may lead to some uptick in the company’s subscriber base. ‘‘The new annual JioPhone tariff plans are unlikely to change the competitive dynamics of the industry, given a minimum upfront commitment of Rs 1,499 (including device), an amount more than twice what a 2G feature phone customer typically spends upfront (on device plus initial recharge),” Goldman Sachs said. “Lower effective monthly tariffs by subscribing to longer duration plans has been a regular feature of telco pricing strategies for a long time. However, most consumers still remain on 1- to 3-month plans as the churn on prepaid is quite high, and the Indian consumer’s ability to make lump sum payment remains low,’’ Goldman said. Analysts at Credit Suisse also said the new plan requires higher upfront investment and, considering that the target segment is price sensitive, it may not convert a large proportion of this segment. At present, new user has the option to buy JioPhone for Rs 699 and opt for monthly recharges of Rs 75 or Rs 125, they added. They added that there will be a limited impact on Bharti Airtel as the Sunil Mittal led telco could offset any negative impact from JioPhone through market share win from Vodafone India. The brokerage estimates that JioPhone has a base of around 120 million devices as of December 2020, thereby accounting for 29 per cent of Jio’s subscribers. It added that in the previous fiscal, Jio added 20 million subscribers a quarter on an average, it feels that JioPhone contributed more than 50 per cent. However, in this fiscal, Jio’s subscriber net additions have been down to 7 million a quarter which is a function of lower JioPhone adds. RIL had attributed this slowdown in JioPhone adds to certain supply-chain issues in 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-123
01-03-2021||Business||Reliance Industries raises stake in skyTran||Reliance Industries Ltd on Sunday said it has acquired an additional equity stake in skyTran Inc  for $26.76 million (Rs 197 crore) . The purchase would increase its shareholding to 54.46 per cent in skyTran which is is developing modern transport modes, including personal rapid transit systems. Incorporated under the laws of Delaware, USA, in 2011, the company has developed technology for implementing personal transportation systems aimed at solving the problem of traffic congestion. A statement from RIL added that the technology has been developed by skyTran to create smart mobility solutions.The additional stake has been acquired by Reliance Strategic Business Ventures Ltd , a wholly owned RIL subsidiary. The proposed skyTran transportation systems would consist of computer-controlled passenger pods running on its state-of-the-art, patented ‘‘passive magnetic levitation’’ technology and would use IT, telecom, internet of things (IoT) and advanced materials technologies to transport passengers in a fast, safe, green, and economical manner. The company is also supported by notable global venture capital investors such as  Innovation Endeavors. “Our acquiring majority equity stake in skyTran reflects our commitment to invest in building futuristic technologies that would transform the world,’’ said Mukesh Ambani, chairman and managing director of RIL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-123
01-03-2021||Business||Tata Motors crosses its 2019-20 sales||Tata Motors has already crossed its 2019-20 sales in the current financial year, crossing 1.65 lakh units till date compared with sales of 1.62 lakh units in the previous fiscal. Its market share has risen to 7.9 per cent from 4.8 per cent. The company hopes to garner 9-10 per cent market share in the coming months. The turnaround for Tata Motors happened in January last year, said Vivek Srivatsa, marketing head of the passenger vehicle unit. “In January 2020, we launched our New Forever portfolio. We not only had a BS-VI portfolio but we had totally upgraded all our cars — the Tiago, Tigor, Nexon, Harrier. Altroz was the new and youngest in the portfolio. And we started seeing the results in February 2020. Then, of course, the lockdown happened but as we slowly unlocked we started seeing the benefits of having an upgraded portfolio of cars,” Srivatsa told The Telegraph on the sidelines of the launch of the Safari. In a challenging year, Tata Motors exhibited a stellar performance in the passenger vehicle market by clocking over 23,000 unit sales every month since October 2020. In the third quarter, the passenger vehicle segment posted its highest sales in the last 33 quarters. “Our focus was not just on design but also safety. Altroz had 5-star GNCAP rating, Tiago and Tigor had 4-star GNCAP rating. We used global standards in materials, fit and finish and customers are appreciating that. We also ramped up our network post lockdown. As we are receiving bookings ahead of production, we are also ramping up our production,” said Srivatsa. The company is doubling its capacity in expectation of increased volumes. When asked if it is hit by supply chain issues, Srivatsa said: “There are some component-based supply chain issues. But our long waiting period is because of increased demand and we are trying to address that by ramping up production.” The company is also hoping that its new SUV Safari, which is retailing at Rs 14.69 lakh, will enhance its market share. SUV is the fastest growing passenger vehicle segment in the country and the new Safari will accelerate the momentum gained by the company’s consistently growing SUV sales that have grown 20 per cent year-to-date compared with the same period last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-123
01-03-2021||Business||Poll heat on Assam tea gardens||The decision of poll-bound Assam to increase the daily wage of tea garden workers by Rs 50 a day may have a debilitating effect on the organised industry unless the cost push is tempered by a commensurate price of the commodity, garden owners apprehended. Given the weightage of wage in the cost of tea production, the hike may translate into an increase of Rs 25-35 a kg, depending on the productivity of a garden. Prices have remained flat in the last 6-7 years except for 2020 when they rose sharply because of the fall in production during the lockdown. The daily cash wage of tea workers was hiked to Rs 217 a day from Rs 167 a day, except in the Barak valley, where it was increased to Rs 195 a day by the incumbent Sarbananda Sonowal government a week before the poll was announced. The decision closely followed the Mamata Banerjee government’s interim hike in the daily tea wage to Rs 202 a day. Soon after the Assam cabinet announced the decision on February 20, BJP leaders in north Bengal were quick to make it a poll plank on how Assam stole a march over Bengal in offering more money in the hands of the workers. There are about 800 gardens in the organised sector in Assam. Around 17 per cent of the state’s population — many of whom had migrated from central India decades ago — can decide the fate of at least 40 of the 126 Assembly seats in the state. Given the politically  charged atmosphere ahead of the elections, very few garden owners were willing to go on record even as they were worried that the unprecedented hike would bleed even the best performing gardens. Industry worried “This has never happened in the 150-year history of the industry. Nobody will make money. There is no logic behind such a steep hike except competitive populism,” said a top producer. While the gap between the two states may appear to be just Rs 15 a day on paper, the cost to a company in Assam will be Rs 30 a day more than Bengal as the latter provides ration to workers at Rs 2 a kg. Established gardens usually spend around Rs 17 a day on ration. Average auction prices for north Indian tea from January to December stood at Rs 201.87 a kg compared with Rs 152.26 a kg in 2019. During April-January, it was up at Rs 221.33 a kg against Rs 153.50 a kg a year ago. However, in the previous year, the hike was a meagre Rs 2-3 a kg compared with the year before. “As an industry we have only been thinking of how to protect ourselves from the losses. Except for last year, when the north Indian crop was down 10 per cent, it has been very hard to go by. Something has to be done to save the industry,” Chandra Kumar Dhanuka, former chairman of the Indian Tea Association and owner of Dhunseri Tea, said. Industry leaders say the prices may remain firm till July before the rain crop hits the market. A note by Icra said while 2020-21 is likely to turn out to be one of the better years for north Indian bulk tea players, the sustenance of the profitability would be critical for their long-term financial health. ‘‘With Assam increasing the wage by Rs 50 per day, which would translate to Rs 25-30 per kg of made tea, a firm trend in prices is pivotal in determining the profitability in FY22. The sharp hike in wags has not only increased the cost of production for the large bulk producers but also increased their relative cost disadvantage to small growers by widening the gap in cost base,’’ said Kaushik Das, vice-president and sector head, corporate sector ratings, Icra. Shortage in heldover stock along with a robust demand is holding up the prices as of now. However, the industry expects a downward pressure post second flush, when the bumper monsoon crop hits the market from July. Any sharp reversal in tea prices and/or material increase in labour wages could reverse the improvement seen in FY2021, the note said. The paper was published after the Bengal announcement but before the Assam decision was known. While the larger gardens would struggle to meet the directive, some of the smaller gardens may just ignore it altogether. The organised gardens have to even pay wages during winter when no crop is plucked. “Tea is also a cultivation, and nowhere are you asked to pay wages when no farming is taking place. Moreover, the minimum wage is a paradox. If somebody is not happy with the pay, the person can work somewhere else,” a planter argued. Moreover, a sharp spurt in Kenyan crop may also spoil the party for Assam CTC, which is exported, by driving down the prices in the international market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-123
01-03-2021||India||Chinese hackers targeted India’s power sector, says US report||Amidst the tense border tension between India and China, a Chinese government-linked group of hackers targeted India's critical power grid system through malware, a US company has said in its latest study, raising suspicion whether last year's massive power outage in Mumbai was a result of the online intrusion. Recorded Future, a Massachusetts-based company which studies the use of the internet by state actors, in its recent report details the campaign conducted by a China-linked threat activity group RedEcho targeting the Indian power sector. The activity was identified through a combination of large-scale automated network traffic analytics and expert analysis. Data sources include the Recorded Future Platform, SecurityTrails, Spur, Farsight and common open-source tools and techniques, the report said. In New Delhi, the ministry of power on Monday said there was no impact on operations of Power System Operation Corporation (POSOCO) due to any malware attack and that prompt actions were taken on advisories issued against such threats. Responding on the findings of the study, the ministry said, "There is no impact on any of the functionalities carried out by POSOCO due to the referred threat. No data breach/ data loss has been detected due to these incidents." It further said, "Prompt actions are being taken by the CISOs (chief information security officers) at all these control centres under operation by POSOCO for any incident/advisory received from various agencies like CERT-in, NCIIPC, CERT-Trans etc." The CERT-in (Indian Computer Emergency Response Team) is the nodal agency to deal with cybersecurity threats like hacking and phishing. However, the ministry did not mention about the Mumbai outage in its statement.Mumbai grid failure On October 12, 2020, a grid failure in Mumbai resulted in massive power outages, stopping trains on tracks, hampering those working from home amidst the COVID-19 pandemic and hitting the economic activity hard. In its report, Recorded Future notified the appropriate Indian government departments prior to publication of the suspected intrusions to support incident response and remediation investigations within the impacted organisations. Since early 2020, Recorded Future's Insikt Group observed a large increase in suspected targeted intrusion activity against Indian organisations from the Chinese state-sponsored group. The New York Times, in a report, said that the discovery raises the question about whether the Mumbai outage was meant as a message from Beijing about what might happen if India pushed its border claims too vigorously.China rejects allegations In response to the US firm's allegation, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin on Monday rejected the criticism about China's involvement in the hacking of India's power grid, saying it is an irresponsible and ill-intentioned practice. "As a staunch defender of cybersecurity, China firmly opposes and cracks down on all forms of cyberattacks. Speculation and fabrication have no role to play in the issue of cyber attacks, as it is very difficult to trace the origin of a cyberattack. "It is highly irresponsible to accuse a particular party when there is no sufficient evidence around. China is firmly opposed to such irresponsible and ill-intentioned practice," Wang said in Beijing. According to the Recorded Future report, from mid-2020 onwards, Recorded Future's midpoint collection revealed a steep rise in the use of infrastructure tracked as AXIOMATICASYMPTOTE, which encompasses ShadowPad command and control (C2) servers, to target a large swathe of India's power sector. Power sector targets identified Ten distinct Indian power sector organisations, including four of the five Regional Load Despatch Centres responsible for the operation of the power grid through balancing electricity supply and demand, have been identified as targets in a concerted campaign against India's critical infrastructure. Other targets identified included two Indian seaports, it said, adding the targeting of Indian critical infrastructure offers limited economic espionage opportunities. However, we assess they pose significant concerns over potential pre-positioning of network access to support Chinese strategic objectives. Pre-positioning on energy assets may support several potential outcomes, including geostrategic signalling during heightened bilateral tensions, supporting influence operations, or as a precursor to kinetic escalation, it said. RedEcho has strong infrastructure and victimology overlaps with Chinese groups APT41/Barium and Tonto Team, while ShadowPad is used by at least five distinct Chinese groups, it said.Activity in lead-up to May 2020 border row Recorded Future said in the lead-up to the May 2020 border skirmishes, it observed a noticeable increase in the provisioning of PlugX malware C2 infrastructure, much of which was subsequently used in intrusion activity targeting Indian organisations. The PlugX activity included the targeting of multiple Indian government, public sector and defence organisations from at least May 2020, it said. While not unique to Chinese cyber espionage activity, PlugX has been heavily used by China-nexus groups for many years. Throughout the remainder of 2020, we identified a heavy focus on the targeting of Indian government and private sector organisations by multiple Chinese state-sponsored threat activity groups, it said. Recorder Future also alleged that it also observed the suspected Indian state-sponsored group Sidewinder target Chinese military and government entities in 2020, in activity overlapping with recent Trend Micro research. The US company's report came as the armies of the two countries began disengagement of troops locked in over an eight-month-long standoff in eastern Ladakh. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-301
01-03-2021||India||Govt's silence indicates it's planning steps against farmers' stir, says Tikait||BKU leader Rakesh Tikait has claimed that the Centre's "silence" for the past few days indicates that it is planning some steps against the farmers' agitation over newly enacted agriculture laws. He also stressed that it is the government that will have to come forward with a proposal for talks to resume with the protesting farmers. Before leaving for Uttarakhand's Udham Singh Nagar on Sunday night, the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader told reporters in Bijnor's Afzalgarh, "The government's silence for the past 15-20 days is indicating that something is going to happen. The government is planning some steps against the agitation." However, Tikait said farmers will not step back till a solution is found. "The farmer is also ready. He will look after his crop as well as the agitation. Let the government hold talks when it has the time," he said. Tikait also said farmers' "mahapanchayats" will be held at several places in the country till March 24. When asked about the violence during a tractor parade on the Republic Day in New Delhi, he alleged that the government created the trouble. On the issue of farmers destroying their standing crop at different places, Tikait said the BKU has told farmers that the time for such action has not come yet. "But why is the government not appealing to farmers not to take such a step," he asked. Tikait said farmers will intensify their agitation if the wheat crop is not sold on the minimum support price (MSP) in Uttar Pradesh and they will hold dharnas outside district headquarters across the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-302
01-03-2021||India||Chinese hackers targeted India's power through malware, says US firm||Amidst the tense border tension between India and China, a Chinese government-linked group of hackers targeted India's critical power grid system through malware, a US company has said in its latest study, raising suspicion whether last year's massive power outage in Mumbai was a result of the online intrusion. Recorded Future, a Massachusetts-based company which studies the use of the internet by state actors, in its recent report details the campaign conducted by a China-linked threat activity group RedEcho targeting the Indian power sector. The activity was identified through a combination of large-scale automated network traffic analytics and expert analysis. Data sources include the Recorded Future Platform, SecurityTrails, Spur, Farsight and common open-source tools and techniques, the report said. On October 12, a grid failure in Mumbai resulted in massive power outages, stopping trains on tracks, hampering those working from home amidst the COVID-19 pandemic and hitting the stuttering economic activity hard. It took two hours for the power supply to resume for essential services, prompting Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to order an enquiry into the incident. In its report, Recorded Future notified the appropriate Indian government departments prior to publication of the suspected intrusions to support incident response and remediation investigations within the impacted organisations. There was no immediate response from the Indian government on the study by the US company. Since early 2020, Recorded Future's Insikt Group observed a large increase in suspected targeted intrusion activity against Indian organisations from the Chinese state-sponsored group. The New York Times, in a report, said that the discovery raises the question about whether the Mumbai outage was meant as a message from Beijing about what might happen if India pushed its border claims too vigorously. In response to the allegation, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin on Monday rejected the criticism about China's involvement in the hacking of India's power grid, saying it is irresponsible and ill-intentioned to make allegations without proof. China is a staunch upholder of cybersecurity. We firmly oppose and fight any kind of cyber-attacks, he said, replying to a question on the report of the cyber-attack on the Indian power grid. It is hard to track the origin of the cyber-attacks. You cannot make wanton guesses or smear a specific country without any proof. This is irresponsible and ill-intentioned. China firmly opposes such behaviour, he said in Beijing. According to the Recorded Future report, from mid-2020 onwards, Recorded Future's midpoint collection revealed a steep rise in the use of infrastructure tracked as AXIOMATICASYMPTOTE, which encompasses ShadowPad command and control (C2) servers, to target a large swathe of India's power sector. Ten distinct Indian power sector organisations, including four of the five Regional Load Despatch Centres responsible for operation of the power grid through balancing electricity supply and demand, have been identified as targets in a concerted campaign against India's critical infrastructure. Other targets identified included two Indian seaports, it said, adding the targeting of Indian critical infrastructure offers limited economic espionage opportunities. However, we assess they pose significant concerns over potential pre-positioning of network access to support Chinese strategic objectives. Pre-positioning on energy assets may support several potential outcomes, including geostrategic signalling during heightened bilateral tensions, supporting influence operations, or as a precursor to kinetic escalation, it said. RedEcho has strong infrastructure and victimology overlaps with Chinese groups APT41/Barium and Tonto Team, while ShadowPad is used by at least five distinct Chinese groups, it said. The high concentration of IPs resolving to Indian critical infrastructure entities communicating over several months with a distinct subset of AXIOMATICASYMPTOTE servers used by RedEcho indicate a targeted campaign, with little evidence of wider targeting in Recorded Future's network telemetry, it said. Recorded Future said in the lead-up to the May 2020 border skirmishes, it observed a noticeable increase in the provisioning of PlugX malware C2 infrastructure, much of which was subsequently used in intrusion activity targeting Indian organisations. The PlugX activity included the targeting of multiple Indian government, public sector and defence organisations from at least May 2020, it said. While not unique to Chinese cyber espionage activity, PlugX has been heavily used by China-nexus groups for many years. Throughout the remainder of 2020, we identified a heavy focus on the targeting of Indian government and private sector organisations by multiple Chinese state-sponsored threat activity groups, it said. Recorder Future alleged that it also observed the suspected Indian state-sponsored group Sidewinder target Chinese military and government entities in 2020, in activity overlapping with recent Trend Micro research. The Massachusetts-based company's report came as the armies of the two countries began disengagement of troops locked in over eight-month-long standoff in eastern Ladakh. Both countries reached a mutual agreement last month for the disengagement of troops from the most contentious area of North and South banks of the Pangong Lake.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-302
01-03-2021||India||Bailable warrant against Kangana issued on Javed Akhtar's complaint||A Mumbai court on Monday issued a bailable warrant against actor Kangana Ranaut after she failed to appear before it in connection with a defamation complaint filed against her by lyricist Javed Akhtar. The Andheri metropolitan magistrate's court issued a summons to Ranaut on February 1, directing her to appear before it on March 1. However, Ranaut failed to appear on Monday following which Magistrate R R Khan issued a bailable warrant against her and posted the matter for further hearing on March 26. A lawyer in the case had earlier informed March 22 as the next date of hearing. Ranaut's advocate Rizwan Siddiquee argued in the court that the summons and process were issued against Ranaut without following the procedure laid down in law and hence, were "bad in law". Siddiquee said a petition would be filed in the Bombay High Court challenging the process issued by the magistrate. Akhtar's advocate Vrinda Grover, however, argued that even if the process is being challenged, Ranaut has to appear before the court as directed, in the absence of any stay on the summons by a higher court. "It is the accused's right to appeal against the order, or even challenge the proceedings, that no one can deny and no one can stop, not even this court. However, she (Ranaut) has failed to comply with the order of this court and there is also no stay obtained from a higher court,"the lawyer argued. Grover then filed an application seeking a non- bailable warrant to be issued against the actor. This was opposed by Siddiquee. Magistrate Khan observed that Ranaut was at the liberty to approach a higher court to challenge the process issued against her, but that would not absolve her from appearing before this court. The court issued a bailable warrant against Ranaut and posted the matter for hearing on March 26. Last month, the Mumbai police submitted a report to the court, saying an offence of defamation was made out against the actor. Akhtar filed the complaint against Ranaut in November last year for allegedly making baseless and false statements against him which, according to him, damaged his reputation. In his complaint, the lyricist claimed Ranaut had made defamatory comments against him in an interview by dragging his name while referring to a "coterie" existing in Bollywood, following the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June last year. Akhtar in his plea claimed the baseless comments made by Ranaut had caused damage to his reputation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-302
01-03-2021||India||India's Covid tally surpasses 1.11 crore mark||India's COVID-19 tally surpassed 1.11 crore on Monday with 15,510 new infections, while the active cases registered an increase for the fifth consecutive day and were recorded at 1,68,627, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total coronavirus cases reached 1,11,12,241 in the country, while the death toll rose to 1,57,157 with 106 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am on Monday showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,07,86,457, which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.07 per cent, it stated. The case fatality rate has dropped to 1.41 per cent. The active cases further increased to 1,68,627, which comprises 1.52 per cent of the total infections, as per the data. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a total of 21,68,58,774 samples have been tested for coronavirus till February 28, with 6,27,668 samples being tested on Sunday. The 106 new fatalities include 62 from Maharashtra, 15 from Kerala, seven from Punjab and five from Karnataka. A total of 1,57,157 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 52,154 from Maharashtra, 12,496 from Tamil Nadu, 12,331 from Karnataka, 10,910 from Delhi, 10,268 from West Bengal, 8,725 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,169 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that the state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-302
01-03-2021||India||Prime Minister takes the first dose of Covaxin at AIIMS ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday took his first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine at AIIMS here and appealed to all those who are eligible to get inoculated. Nurse P Niveda, who hails from Puducherry, administered Bharat Biotech's COVAXIN to the prime minister, sources said. "Took my first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine at AIIMS. Remarkable how our doctors and scientists have worked in quick time to strengthen the global fight against COVID-19," Modi tweeted after taking the vaccine shot. "I appeal to all those who are eligible to take the vaccine. Together, let us make India COVID-19 free!" he said. The prime minister also posted a picture of himself taking the first dose of the vaccine in which he is seen sporting an Assamese 'gamocha' and getting inoculated with a smile on his face. Nurse Niveda and a second nurse from Kerala can be seen in the picture posted by Modi. The prime minister went to AIIMS without any route restrictions and chose early morning hours to ensure there was no inconvenience to people, the sources said. Nurse Niveda later told reporters that the prime minister, after being administered the vaccine shot, remarked "Laga bhi diya, pata bhi nahin chala (Already done? I didn't even feel it)." Niveda said she has been working with AIIMS for three years now and is currently posted at the vaccine centre. "We found out PM sir is coming for vaccination this morning. When I came here only then I got to know that sir is coming. It was really nice to meet sir," she said. He has been administered the first dose of Bharat Biotech's COVAXIN and will need his second dose in 28 days, the nurse said. "He talked with us, asked us from where we belong," she said. Rosamma Anil, the nurse from Kerala, said it was very nice to meet the prime minister and added that he was "very comfortable". The government had announced on Wednesday that everyone above 60 years of age and those over 45 years with comorbidities will be able to get COVID-19 vaccine from March 1 for free at government facilities and for a charge at many private hospitals. Citizens will be able to register and book an appointment for vaccination, anytime and anywhere, using the Co-WIN 2.0 portal or through other IT applications such as Aarogya Setu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-302
01-03-2021||India||Odisha IIT bags varsity of the year award||Indian Institute of Technology Bhubaneswar bagged the University of the Year award in the category of universities in existence for 11-30 years, at the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (Ficci) Higher Education Excellence Awards 2021 ceremony. The three-day Ficci Higher education summit was held between February 25 and February 27. There were 11 categories of awards in this 7th edition of the event and the awards were announced on February 25 at the 16th Ficci Higher Education Summit 2021. The jury comprised an eminent panel of experts chaired by Prof R.A. Mashelkar. Director, IIT, Professor R.V. Raja Kumar said, “IIT Bhubaneswar has been trying to offer holistic education to its students of a standard at par with the cream of global class institutions by bringing in academic excellence through several unique pedagogical and operational reforms. “The sudden onset of the pandemic posed us a lot of challenges in fulfilling the self-imposed commitment and the Institute had to bring in right innovative processes required for offering education which is not compromised or affected by the pandemic.” Raja Kumar said: “Some of the distinguished and unique innovative initiatives, the Institute could bring in include coming out with a method for conducting pen and paper comprehensive examinations by online with online invigilation by faculty members (for which there is no commercial product available) for evaluating the student learning and applying the same successfully right from the beginning of the lockdown, including conducting end semester exams online for the last academic year.” He further said: “The institute has switched to online education with zero gap at the onset of lockdown and protected the whole campus.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-302
01-03-2021||India||Govt treats education as an ideological weapon and commercial commodity: Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said the RSS and Prime Minister Narendra Modi was using education as an ideological weapon and commercial commodity instead of viewing it as a tool to empower citizens. Interacting with professors in Tamil Nadu’s Tirunelveli, Rahul said: “The RSS uses education as an ideological tool. We believe education is a weapon of empowerment of the people.” He also said that the new education policy was being used as an ideological weapon to communalise people and impose centralisation. Stressing that education plays a critical role in nation-building, the Congress leader said: “The State has an important role in providing quality education to the people across the country, particularly the poor and deprived sections of the society. I don’t believe education is a financial commodity. I don’t believe you should be able to buy education. Education should be available to everybody.” Responding to questions, he added: “It is the duty of the government to provide quality education and health care to everybody. This government sees everything as a financial commodity — farming, education, health care. “If you have money, you can get anything. If you don’t have money, you get nothing. There is space and role for business. Absolutely. But business cannot dominate education, health care. A large part of education should be free, accessible to all.” Rahul, who is on a three-day tour of Tamil Nadu, also dwelt on his pet theme of how the entire agriculture trade was being handed over to crony capitalists. He later tweeted: “The Government of India has turned noble professions like farming, education & health care into financial commodities for the benefit of a few cronies.” He said that “access and excellence” were not possible with centralisation and corporatisation of the education system. Responding to a professor who wanted to know how to educate young minds to remove religion from politics, the former Congress president said: “I don’t think you necessarily want to remove religion from the discourse. Let all religions be part of the discourse. “You want fair play. If somebody believes in a religious idea, I don’t think you can tell him — you can’t talk about it. I think all ideas need to be competing without hatred, without anger. I don’t see a problem in a conversation taking place.” Rahul added: “The problem is when you tell people you can’t open your mouth because you are from a certain religion. Or, you can’t express your ideas because you are from a certain religion. But a healthy democracy should be confident enough to speak on anything. It shouldn’t be that we don’t have the courage to speak the truth. “The problem is that the government of India doesn’t want to allow people to speak. This government says they represent Hinduism. A lot of ideas they espouse have nothing to do with Hinduism. Nowhere in Hinduism does it say insult people, beat people, kill people. But they do it.” Hinting that the RSS-BJP misused and misinterpreted religion only to grab power and implement its agenda, he said: “If you want to have a discussion on the true principles of religion, it is very simple. All of them say the same thing — Hinduism, Christianity, Islam — treat the other person with respect, with love, with affection. Religion doesn’t say hate, kill. The whole game is to steal. Do whatever you have to do to take away what belongs to the other. Take people’s money and give it to big businesses.” Asked about his vision for imparting knowledge in a practical manner as is done in the West, Rahul said: “I would give freedom to teachers and students. Teachers are creative people, I will let them use that creativity. The students should have the freedom to question, to challenge ideas. The government should be confident enough to let ideas flourish. This government doesn’t give that freedom. “But we defeated the British. Who is Modi in comparison to the British power? We will send Modi back to Nagpur (the RSS headquarters). But we will do it without hate, without anger.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-302
01-03-2021||India||JNU teachers call for regular VC ||The teachers’ association of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) has demanded the immediate appointment of a regular vice-chancellor since the tenure of M Jagadesh Kumar had ended. JNU is among a dozen central educational institutions that are functioning without a regular vice-chancellor or director. These institutions include the IITs at Indore, Mandi, Patna and Bhubaneswar. “Today marks a month of Prof. Jagadesh Kumar’s extension as caretaker vice-chancellor. While the process of finding a replacement started in October 2020, it is unfortunate that the search committee constituted for the purpose has not been able to substantially advance its work,” said a statement issued by the Jawaharlal Nehru University Teachers’ Association (JNUTA) on Friday. The association alleged impropriety in the nomination of members for JNU’s search panels. One of the applicants for the post was present at the meeting of JNU’s Executive Council that nominated the search panel members, the JNUTA alleged. A JNU teacher said the university administration under the leadership of Kumar took decisions and actions to appease certain faculty members while victimising others who opposed his way of functioning. The JNU vice-chancellor had issued showcause notices against 48 faculty members in 2018 for taking part in a protest on the campus. Currently, Delhi University does not have a regularvice-chancellor after the suspension of Yogesh Tyagi. The wait also continues for regular vice-chancellors at Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri National Sanskrit University and Central Sanskrit University. Expert committees had conducted interviews to fill up the posts in August last year. The tenure of the incumbent vice-chancellors has been extended. Six months after the education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal-led panel conducted interviews, IIT Ropar got its new director last month while the fate of the selection of directors at IIT Patna and IIT Bhubaneswar is unclear. On July 14, 2020, the Pokhriyal panel had held online interviews of shortlisted candidates for the three IIT heads. After the posts were advertised by the education ministry on November 26, 2019, the process of selection of the heads of all the three IITs was carried out simultaneously. Last month Rajeev Ahuja was appointed IIT Ropar director. The IIT faculty members were expecting that the directors would be appointed in July itself as the issuance of appointment letters usually does not take more than two weeks after the conduct of interviews. After the interviews, the education ministry sends the names to the President, who is the Visitor of the central universities and IITs. The Visitor clears the names expeditiously. “The absence of a regular director is affecting recruitment of faculty and the planning of academic activities amid the pandemic. Development activities too have been held up. The order last month appointing the IIT Ropar director has created more question about transparency,” said an IIT Bhubaneswar faculty member. The Telegraph sent an email to the education ministry to understand its perspective on the delay in recruitments after interviews, but received no reply.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-302
01-03-2021||India||CBI without a regular chief for nearly a month now||The Central Bureau of Investigation, the country’s premier investigative agency, has been without a regular chief for nearly a month. Besides, the Centre is yet to appoint a new chief of the Central Reserve Police Force, India’s biggest paramilitary force, whose director-general retired on Sunday. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) is also headless since August last year. Sources in the CBI said the absence of a regular director in the CBI had “severely affected decision making”. The Centre had appointed Gujarat cadre IPS officer Praveen Sinha, currently the additional director of the CBI, as the agency’s interim chief on February 3, the day regular chief R.K. Shukla’s two-year tenure ended. “No policy decision is being taken in the absence of the regular director for almost a month. This has severely affected decision making in the agency, which is handling several politically sensitive cases,” a CBI official said. The CBI is under the administrative control of the department of personnel and training that reports to the Prime Minister’s Office. Sources said the Centre was yet to call a meeting of the high-powered committee — comprising the Prime Minister, the Chief Justice of India and the leader of the largest Opposition in the Lok Sabha — to pick the new CBI director. “The Centre is still in the process of shortlisting names of the contenders for the post of the next CBI director,” the CBI official said. The Centre on Friday appointed outgoing CRPF chief A.P. Maheshwari as an adviser to Puducherry’s lieutenant governor, two days before his superannuation from the Indian Police Service. Maheshwari retired on Sunday. The Narcotics Control Bureau is also without its regular chief since August last year. In August, the Narendra Modi government had appointed controversial Gujarat cadre IPS officer Rakesh Asthana as the director-general of the Border Security Force. He is also holding the additional charge as the director-general of NCB. Both the CRPF and NCB report to the Union home ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-302
01-03-2021||India||UP farmers’ agitation driven by 'stagnant' sugarcane prices and stray cattle menace||The old saying that farming is the best occupation no longer holds true, says Raj Kumar, a farmer from western Uttar Pradesh, who complains that stagnant sugarcane prices and rising input costs have made agriculture unsustainable. Kumar, a Rawa Rajput from Satheri village, says sugarcane prices have not been raised for several seasons while urea and the fertiliser DAP have become costlier. “Pehle kehte the, Uttam Kheti, Beech Vyapar, Neech Naukri. Ab to sab ulat gaya hai. (We used to say agriculture is the best, followed by trade and working for someone else was the least desired. This wisdom seems to have been turned on its head),” says Kumar. Kumar says he does not know much about the new farm laws but is supporting the protesting farmers because agriculture has become unviable. The farmers protesting against the three laws are worried that these will lead to the collapse of the existing Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) system and leave them vulnerable to exploitation by large corporates.  They are demanding repeal of the laws and a legal guarantee for a minimum support price for crops. The protests, which started in Punjab and Haryana, are spreading across the country. In Uttar Pradesh, mahapanchayats are being held to spread awareness against the laws and rally support for the protest at Delhi’s borders. Roshan Lal, a Saini by caste and a small-scale farmer, said delay in payment for sugarcane and the rising diesel prices besides the problem of stray cattle had made their lives miserable. “More than farm laws, no hike in cane prices, delay of over a year in payments of sugarcane and the menace of stray cattle have broken our back,” Lal said. “All this has forced us to raise our voices for farmers’ issues.” Sohan, a Kashyap by caste from Ganshampura village who owns less than one acre and uses his crop mostly in his jaggery workshop, says: “Here sugarcane is everything. If its prices increase, the prices of jaggery will also go up otherwise it would be difficult to pay even wages.” Sohan also complains about the stray cattle. He has heard about the farm laws but doesn’t know much about them. However, opposition to the laws becomes louder and more visible in the Jat-dominated regions of the western Uttar Pradesh. In Shoram village, seen as the headquarters of the khaps (caste councils) of the Jat community, a mere mention of farm laws evokes a strong response. “These laws are not only against the farmers but against the country... those who are guarding the borders are our sons and behind their back you are trying to snatch the rights of their brothers who are into farming,” said Bhupender Choudhary, a villager. The protest will continue till the government takes back the farm laws, says Vipin Balyan, a 35-year-old farmer from Shoram village. “The proponents of these black laws will pay heavily in coming elections.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-302
01-03-2021||India||KV and Navodaya parents and teachers to participate in creative writing contests||Ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s interaction with students on examination stress, the Centre expects parents and teachers of Kendriya Vidyalayas and Navodaya schools to participate in creative writing contests on topics praising online education and putting the onus on parents to control the anxiety of their wards. A section of academics said the themes offered no room to parents and teachers to reflect upon the issues impartially and from their own experience. The centrally funded Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (KVS) and Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti (NVS) have uploaded details of the proposed online creative writing competition to be held this year ahead of the fourth edition of Modi’s Pariksha Pe Charcha programme. The event, in the third week of March, will be held online this year. This is for the first time creative writing contests have been extended to parents and teachers. Last year students had been asked to send their creative writings on five topics. This year students of Classes IX to XII will participate in the creative writing competitions on topics such as “Exams are festivals, celebrate them”, “India is incredible, travel and explore”, “As one journey ends, another begins”, “Aspire, not to be, but to do” and “Be grateful”. The details uploaded on the website https://innovateindia.mygov.in/ppc-2021/ suggest that participation is open to all parents and teachers. The participants can send their write-ups till March 14. “Upon successful submission of entries, all parents and teachers shall receive a digital certificate of participation that they may download and share on social media with #PPC2021,” the website said. The same advice has been given to students too. The parents have been asked to write up to 1,500 characters on either of the following topics: “Your words make your child’s world — encourage as you have always done” and “Be your child’s friend, keep depression away”. “Write a story about the vision you share with your child for his or her future. Let your child write the first sentence. Then you write the next and so on,” said the instructions on the first topic for the parents. For the second topic, the parents have been asked to write a postcard up to 500 characters addressed to the child to let him or her know why they are special. Similarly, the teachers have been advised to write up to 1,500 characters on the topic “Online education system: Its benefits and how it can be improved further”. The KVS and the NVS have passed on the instructions to schools, which have informed the parents, teachers and students. Prof. Anita Rampal, an educationist and former dean of faculty of education, Delhi University, said: “However much we may wish it to be, examinations are unfortunately not a festival, and we in the system are responsible for that. So how can we ask students to celebrate?” “The examination system is intimidating and competitive, where state boards are also in competition to give higher marks, not focusing on the true assessment of students’ understanding, but forcing memorisation and (exerting) tremendous stress on students and parents,” she added. “The parents are as much victims of the system as the students. As educationists it is important that we do not pass the buck onto and place the responsibility on parents; we will need to completely change the system of examinations if we really want to ensure that meaningful learning and assessment happens and students are not stressed,” Rampal said. She said researches showed that even the best students of top universities tended to underperform when competition and anxiety were high or the examinations were highly centralised. Rampal said the topic for teachers — online education — conformed to the government’s official position, leaving no space to offer an alternative view and refusing to take note of the problems the majority of teachers and students had been facing. “We know that children learn through exploration and active engagement, not just by staring at computer screens or blackboards. Children learn from each other by thinking and questioning, while working and meeting in schools. But the topic praising the online education system contradicts the basic theories of learning and gives no scope to teachers to express the severe difficulties and limitations associated with it,” Rampal said. Moushumi Basu, a faculty member of Jawaharlal Nehru University, questioned the government’s treatment of students, who have demonstrated independent thinking and confidence in recent months. She referred to the arrest of climate activist Disha Ravi in the toolkit sedition case. “As a parent I am worried — we teach our children to be independent. I am sure Disha Ravi’s parents did the same but how did the State functionaries, especially the police, react? Who is responsible for the sleepless nights that she spent in judicial and police custody? Basu asked. “And she is not alone — there’s Nodeep Kaur, Gulfisha, Safoora, Ishrat, Debangana, Natasha, who are all suffering a similar fate,” Basu added. The Telegraph sent emails to the education ministry, KVS commissioner Nidhi Pandey and NVS commissioner Vinayak Garg asking about the reasons for extending the competition to parents, the issuance of certificates and the concerns about lack of digital devices. “Pareeksha Pe Charcha is a purely voluntary process. The inputs that come here help in better policy making for the larger benefit of students, parents and teachers,” said an official of the education ministry. Pandey and Garg did not respond to the queries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-303
01-03-2021||India||‘Sticky bomb’ alarm in Jammu and Kashmir||Security forces battling a decades-long insurgency in Kashmir are alarmed by the recent arrival in the region of small, magnetic bombs that have wreaked havoc in Afghanistan. “Sticky bombs”, which can be attached to vehicles and detonated remotely, have been seized during raids in recent months in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, three senior security officials told Reuters. “These are small IEDs and quite powerful,” said Kashmir police chief Vijay Kumar, referring to improvised explosive devices. “It will certainly impact the present security scenario as volume and frequency of vehicular movements of police and security forces are high in the Kashmir Valley.” The Centre flooded Kashmir, already one of the world’s most militarised regions, with more troops in August 2019, when it cancelled the erstwhile state’s special status. The arrival of the sticky bombs in Kashmir — including 15 seized in a February raid — raises concerns that an unnerving tactic attributed to the Taliban insurgents in nearby Afghanistan could be spreading to the India-Pakistan conflict. Afghanistan in recent months has seen a series of sticky-bomb attacks targeting security forces, judges, government officials, civil society activists and journalists. The attacks — some as victims sat in traffic — have sown fear, while avoiding substantial civilian casualties. None of the devices seized in Kashmir was produced there, a senior security official said, suggesting they were being smuggled from Pakistan. “All of them have come via drone drops and tunnels,” he said. New Delhi has attempted to maintain a tight grip over the Kashmir Valley, where high-speed mobile Internet was suspended for 18 months until earlier in February, but the insurgency has simmered on. Officials said the bombs were particularly worrying because they could be easily attached to vehicles using magnets, potentially allowing militants to carry out assassinations or target military convoys that regularly criss-cross the Valley. In February 2019, a suicide bomber drove a car laden with explosives into a convoy in Kashmir’s Pulwama, killing 40 soldiers — the deadliest attack on Indian forces in the region — bringing India and Pakistan to the brink of another war. Police chief Kumar said security forces were changing protocols to deal with the new threat. The measures included increasing the distance between private and military traffic, installing more cameras on vehicles and using drones to monitor convoys. A difference between militants in Kashmir and Afghanistan is that the Taliban have tremendous ability to move around in urban and rural areas, which, along with the easier availability of explosives, make the bombs a potent threat. The Taliban, which initially said it was behind some of the attacks, has since denied any involvement in the attacks. “The Taliban has targets, can reach them, and kill them with impunity. The whole structure of the attack — and its endless repetition — is what makes the bomb effective,” said Avinash Paliwal, a senior lecturer in international relations at SOAS University of London. “In Kashmir, the space for such ability to manoeuvre with ease is limited.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-303
01-03-2021||India||How PM has doubled ‘farmer’ income already ||Our Prime Minister is an honourable man. He does what he says; only at times people don’t understand it. He keeps his promise. He had promised to eliminate black money from the Indian economy. He kept his promise with a blitzkrieg called “demonetisation”, and big business converted overnight its black money into white money while the nationalised banks increased their burden of non-performing assets. The result was there for all to see. Many in the informal sector could not see it only because they did not survive the blitzkrieg. This was just like his other blitzkrieg of a sudden lockdown at four hours’ notice with the solemn advice to us to fight the coronavirus by banging our utensils, and then by lighting lamps. Some, of course, did not have balconies, or even utensils. Some, before they could fight the virus, died on the roads. They were the migrant workers on a long march back home. Then our Prime Minister promised he would double farmers’ income within two years, and he has already done it. He did it under the veil of a sudden and severe lockdown. The Prime Minister is a modest man who does not like to boast of his achievements. But the country should know that its farmers’ wealth had doubled in exactly 227 days. We learnt from a recent Oxfam report that between “18 March and 31 October, Mukesh Ambani, India’s richest man, and chairman, managing director and largest shareholder of Reliance Industries Ltd — which specialises in petrol, retail and telecommunications — more than doubled his wealth, which rose (in US dollars) from 36.8 to 78.3bn”. The Forbes rich list for 2020 puts his wealth even higher, at $89bn. This is three times that of the second-richest man, Gautam Adani, who too kept pace. As we know, the Prime Minister does not like to mention these achievements because he is modest. This billionaire duo could be categorised as honorary farmers with vast retail and storing (silo) interests in agricultural produce. And, if they were counted as honorary farmers and their incomes added to the incomes of the rest of the Indian farmers, it can easily be seen that the farmers’ average income would take a mighty leap. All pro-corporate, market-oriented economists — some here, some others in the IMF and the World Bank — may have even estimated it already. That’s why they were so vocal and confident in the media. The farmers’ average income would go up enormously just by welcoming two corporate members into their community from Gujarat. The Prime Minister can vouch for them as he knew them so well and cut deals with them closely when he was chief minister of Gujarat, and the bonding has gone even deeper now with airport contracts and so on. That’s what the three farm laws intend achieving. It puzzles India’s elite also that the farmers cannot see this simple arithmetic. After all, most of India’s real rich got richer by defying the law of gravity of the severe contraction of the real economy during this period of the lockdown. Much of this was possible because of the rise in share prices, especially of Ambani’s and Adani’s companies. This was flagged by the Hurun India list and noted by UBS in Switzerland as well as PricewaterhouseCoopers. Only the farmers obstinately refuse to see this advantage of owning shares rather than toiling on the fields for meagre returns. So what option did the Prime Minister have when the farmers behaved like a bunch of unruly, bad students who refused to learn the lesson? They had to be taught through detention. Spikes, barbed wire, trenches were used to cordon off Delhi’s Singhu and other borders, wherever the farmers had gathered. These days terrorists, Khalistanis, urban Naxals and foreign conspiracies are the deadly viruses competing with Covid-19, as our national intelligence knows so well. The compromised evidence planted in computers is, of course, just another instance of the “foreign destructive ideology (FDI)” that the Prime Minister has rightly warned us about. Among the carriers of such FDI are newspapers like The Washington Post, which brought down then US President Richard Nixon in the 1970s and recently published the news about the computers of some urban Naxals being compromised. Former US President Donald Trump knew how dangerous this media virus can be. The Prime Minister has always been alert to such dangers. Our alert Prime Minister had to warn us passionately against such “Andolan Jeevi” parasites, Khalistanis, anti-CAA students, “tukde tukde gang” members, urban Naxals. They are all anti-nationals infiltrating the farmers’ movement, and the problem is that this infiltrating virus is so strange that the farmers become like them. They all are, if not anti-national then anti-government, and if not anti-government then certainly anti-government-policy. Nevertheless, we can sleep peacefully at night because we are in the safe hands of a strong Prime Minister (with a 56-inch chest) who does not compromise and makes these finer distinctions. So the farmers have been immobilised on Delhi’s borders. On the slightest suspicion, or even without any, they can be picked up. The Prime Minister and the entire State power are prepared to meet the challenge although the farmers — men, women and children — are a non-aggressive, peaceful lot. The only weapon they have is tractors. Looks like an uneven battle the farmers can never win. And yet the outcome of this battle is becoming less and less predictable. Not only are the farmers horrible and obstinate with unfaltering determination, they have found an almost paradoxical way of fighting this war. They are not interested in coming to Delhi; they are not interested in the wonderfully passionate speeches or the Mann Ki Baat addresses of the Prime Minister; they are not even interested in talking to the government unless the government shows real interest in negotiating. They are not even interested in the Prime Minister’s verbal assurances in Parliament about the minimum support price for agricultural produce. They simply want it as a law passed by Parliament. What is more, the government is alarmed to learn they are no longer in a hurry. They are consolidating their support among the peasantry not only in Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, or among the Sikh and Jat peasantry, they are spreading out across north and central India — to Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh. Farmers’ mahapanchayats are drawing such huge crowds and enthusiastic response that go beyond caste, religion and class boundaries that the government cannot but see the writing on the wall. South of Vindhyas in Andhra, Telangana, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala, the movement is acquiring new energy every day, with enthusiastic farmers holding marches. It looks like the movement has so far been less powerful in eastern India, but if the huge wave of the farmers’ protest reaches the shores of the Bay of Bengal, all the BJP’s hopes will sink. The farmers are rising as never before in India. They were meant to be encircled by the government, but they are encircling the government rapidly. It is now up to the political parties to show whether they are capable of rising to the occasion and going beyond petty electoral seat calculations to drown — as a united force — not merely the three contentious farm laws but also their makers with the help of this farmers’ uprising. Amit Bhaduri is an economist. In January 2020, Bhaduri gave up his status as professor emeritus at JNU in protest against the throttling of dissent on the campus||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-303
01-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: Cong leader Anand Sharma slams party's tie-up with ISF||Senior Congress leader Anand Sharma on Monday slammed the party's tie-up with Indian Secular Front (ISF) led by Muslim cleric Abbas Siddiqui in West Bengal, saying it was against the party's core ideology and Gandhian and Nehruvian secularism. He also said that the party "cannot be selective in fighting the communalists" and it must do so in all its manifestations, irrespective of religion and colour. Sharma, a former union minister and a leader of the group of 23 which had written to Congress president Sonia Gandhi demanding organisational overhaul, said the issue of a tie-up with a radical party like the ISF should have been discussed and approved by the Congress Working Committee (CWC). The CWC is the highest decision-making body of the party that takes important decisions of the party. Sharma is a member of the CWC and the deputy leader of the Congress in Rajya Sabha. The Congress is contesting the West Bengal assembly elections in alliance with the Left and ISF, but is fighting the CPI-M in Kerala as the principal opposition party. Even though the Left has finalised its seat-sharing with ISF, the Congress is yet to do so. Leaders of the Left, Congress and the ISF addressed a joint rally at the Brigade Parade ground in Kolkata on Sunday. "Congress' alliance with parties like ISF and other such forces militates against the core ideology of the party and Gandhian and Nehruvian secularism, which forms the soul of the party. These issues need to be approved by the CWC," he said on Twitter. "Congress cannot be selective in fighting communalists but must do so in all its manifestations, irrespective of religion and colour. The presence and endorsement by West Bengal PCC President is painful and shameful, he must clarify," the senior party leader said. Joining the Left and Congress leaders at the dais was Abbas Siddique of the iconic Furfura Shareef and founder of the Indian Secular Front (ISF), a recent member of the opposition alliance in the state. Sharma and several other 'G-23' leaders had gathered in Jammu on Saturday and said that the party was weakening, in an apparent show of dissent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
01-03-2021||West Bengal||TMC likely to drop several sitting MLAs for Bengal polls||The Trinamul Congress is likely to axe several sitting MLAs from its candidate list for the upcoming West Bengal elections, sources said on Monday. The party is planning to nominate more youths, women, and leaders with clean image and acceptability in their area, they said. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee met the party's 12- member election committee in the afternoon at her residence in Kalighat and brain-stormed over the nominations. "Today, the election committee authorised Mamata Banerjee to take the final call regarding selecting candidates," a senior TMC leader said. Nearly 30 per cent of the 294 constituencies, including those of the 19 MLAs who have switched over to BJP, are likely to have new candidates, the sources said. "Reports by Prashant Kishor's I-PAC on every MLA and their constituencies are likely to play a key role in the candidate selection," another TMC leader, who was present at the meeting, said. "How the MLAs have performed in the last five years, their image in the area and acceptability will be the main parameters. This time we won't be taking any chances," he added. Another party leader said that elderly MLAs with age above 75 are likely to be dropped. "Stress will be given on nominating more woman leaders. Last time our candidate list had around 33 per cent woman candidates. This time it will go up further," he said. In 2016, the TMC won 211 seats in the 294-member House. The Left-Congress alliance had bagged 77 seats, and the BJP three. The elections this time, which are seeing a stiff contest between the TMC and the BJP, will be held in eight phases, beginning with polling for 30 seats on March 27. Votes will be counted on May 2. After having a marginal presence in the politically polarised state for decades, the BJP has emerged as the ruling Trinamool Congress's main rival over the last couple of years, managing to win 18 out of 42 seats in the Lok Sabha polls of 2019 and following it with inducting popular TMC MLAs, MP and ministers into the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
01-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP delegation alleges foul play by cops to enable proxy voting in Bengal||A BJP delegation on Monday wrote to Calcutta Police Commissioner Soumen Mitra alleging that an illegal exercise was being carried out in the force to "enable collection of postal ballot and effect proxy votes" during assembly elections, set to begin on March 27. In the letter undersigned by BJP MP Swapan Dasgupta and senior leaders Sabyasachi Dutta and Shishir Bajoria, the party claimed that a section of police officers, under the banner of Welfare Association, is collecting photocopies of voter and Aadhaar cards of their colleagues across all ranks as part of the operation. The saffron party also said that it was a "highly irregular act and also tantamount to taking away someone's fundamental right to vote". It said that an "inspector by the name of Santanu Sinha Biswas is spearheading the exercise and two sub- inspectors Tapan Kr Maity and Bijitaswo Raut are assisting him, among others". The BJP leaders further stated in the letter that several "serving police personnel were seen swearing allegiance to Trinamool Congress in the presence of party MP Subrata Bakshi" at Uttirno building in Alipore on February 13. The party demanded that an enquiry be carried out in the matter, and the police personnel carrying out the "illegal exercise" be immediately suspended. It sought necessary steps to stop the operation, as it "comes under the provisions of Corrupt Practices in the Representatives of People's Act". Last week, the BJP had lodged a complaint with the Chief Electoral Officer of Bengal against some police officers, who, the party claimed, were resorting to unfair means to prevent free and fair polls in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
01-03-2021||West Bengal||Plea in SC challenges 8-phase Bengal polls||A plea challenging the Election Commission's decision to conduct assembly elections over eight phases in West Bengal was filed in the Supreme Court on Monday. The plea, filed by lawyer M L Sharma, seeks the apex court's direction to the poll panel to stop it from conducting eight-phase elections in the state as it violates Article 14 (right to life) and Article 21 (right to life) of the Constitution. On February 26, the Election Commission announced the schedule for assembly elections to be held in West Bengal, Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and in Puducherry. While the Trinamool Congress Party-led West Bengal will have elections over eight rounds from March 27-April 29, polling in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry will be held in one phase on April 6 and in Assam over three phases. The plea, which may come up for hearing in a few days, also seeks a direction to the CBI to register an FIR into the alleged chanting of religious slogans during electioneering in West Bengal. The chanting of "Jai Shri Ram, other religious slogans are creating disharmony" and is an offence under the IPC and the Representation of the People Act, 1951, the plea said. "Whether using a provocative religious slogan 'Jai Shri Ram' is for electoral benefits as well as others is not violated S.123(3) & 125 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951," reads the legal question raised in the plea.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
01-03-2021||West Bengal||Left veterans let youths take the centrestage at Brigade||Veteran Left leaders stepped back to push the younger generation on the big stage and youths made up a bulk of the crowd at Brigade Parade Grounds, both these features standing out at the Left-Congress-ISF rally on Sunday. The “youthful” mood was evident on the podium when octogenarian Left Front chairperson Biman Bose who presided over the meeting led a striking departure from tradition by stepping back after “seeking people’s permission”, and handing over the mic to young actor-activist Badshah Moitra to introduce speakers. “I can’t express my feelings in words (at you) allowing me a chance to speak on such a stage,” said Badshah as he introduced RSP leader Manoj Bhattacharya to the podium. Badshah’s role was shared by two other young faces of the Left — Aishee Ghosh and Dipshita Dhar, both SFI leaders. This change was welcomed by the crowd with loud cheers. “The older generation of leaders should become friends, philosophers and guides to the younger generation of leaders who have proved their mettle by taking on fascist forces on JNU campus and elsewhere,” said Arijit Dutta, 36, who came from Burdwan. Despite its plummeting graph since 2011, the Left in the past refused to respond to cries from within and outside the party to bring younger faces to the forefront. The leadership did concede ahead of the Brigade rally in February 2019, when it included former JNU president and CPI leader Kanhaiya Kumar, and the CPM’s tribal face Debalina Hembram in the list of speakers. Kanhaiya could not make it then as he fell ill. On Sunday, however, Badshah, Aishee and Dipshita were the faces on the podium. On the ground, there were young faces like Md Jiyarul, 28, son of a landless labourer in East Burdwan’s Purbasthali, excited about his “first Brigade”. “I was a labourer in the construction industry in Kerala but had to come back during the lockdown. My family had voted for Trinamul but we became disenchanted... It is then that I decided to take up the red flag,” said Jiyarul who held a huge CPM flag as party posters covered his body. The flutter of white flags of the CPM’s students and youth wings — SFI and DYFI — far outnumbered the red flags of the CPM and its allies. Calcutta University students Meghna Roy, 23, and Samprikta Bose, 22, were among the faces at the Brigade as a part of the organisers’ strategy to make “60 per cent of the crowd” that of students and youths. “We managed to achieve more than we expected,” said a SFI state committee member but admitted that Abbas Siddiqui’s Indian Secular Front did bring in many young men. “The youth’s disillusionment with the current scenario is helping to make the Left acceptable. Youths want jobs and not doles that Trinamul prefers to offer. Attending the rally in such large numbers goes to prove that the youth are with the Left,” said SFI state secretary Srijan Bhattacharya. CPM leader Sujan Chakraborty said the crowd-puller Brigade was a rejection of the BJP and the Trinamul. The BJP reminded the Left of the Abbas factor. “It looked like a Brigade meeting organised by Md Salim for the ISF where the CPM and Congress took part,” mocked BJP leader Samik Bhattacharya. Apart from Badshah, actors Sabyasachi Chakraborty, Debdut Ghosh, Sreelekha Mitra, filmmakers Tarun Majumder and Kamaleswar Mukherjee, music composer Debojyoti Mishra and singer Kazi Kamal Nasser spoke and performed before political leaders took over the stage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
01-03-2021||West Bengal||‘Showstopper’ cleric makes Congress uneasy||Bengal Congress president Adhir Chowdhury was speaking at the Brigade Parade Grounds on Sunday when chants of “bhaijaan, bhaijaan” rent the Brigade air, forcing the veteran to pause midway, indicating that the road ahead for the Left-Congress-ISF alliance would be rocky. “Should I stop?” Chowdhury, who looked upset, was overheard as senior Left leaders like Md Salim and Biman Bose made a beeline to welcome a young man in white kurta-pajama, a skull cap and a dark blue jacket, on the dais. Chowdhury had to stop because the crowd had erupted into cheers on seeing Furfura Sharif cleric Abbas Siddiqui who has floated the Indian Secular Front (ISF). Siddiqui waved at the crowds, and Left leaders rushed to greet him. The Brigade rally on Sunday was historic not only because it brought the Left and the Congress leaders together on such a huge political platform for the first time, it would also be remembered as it pitchforked a cleric into the centrestage of Bengal polls 2021. Md Salim requested Siddiqui to ask his followers to settle down at which the Congress state president said he would not continue. Scores of Left leaders like Bose, Salim and CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra placated Chowdhury. A reluctant Chowdhury, who had lost the flow of his speech, did finish his address and earn a huge round of applause, but by then the audience at the Brigade had come to know that Siddiqui was the showstopper. Siddiqui who had walked on the stage even as Chowdhury was speaking and waved at the crowds, gesticulated to his supporters to settle down. He then seated himself between his party president Simul Soren and Forward Bloc’s state secretary Naren Chatterjee. Going with the theme of the meeting, Siddiqui in his address went all out against Trinamul and the BJP. “We have to take a vow that we will have to smash the black arms of the BJP,” Siddiqui said. “In the coming days Bengal will slip out of the hands of Didimoni (Mamata Banerjee) and we will rule here,” he added. As the crowd erupted in cheers each time Siddiqui attacked Mamata or the BJP, it was clear that he was the top draw of Sunday’s meeting. However, the other features of his 10-minute address,  left many wondering whether he would at all add value to the fledgling alliance because of his less-than-friendly approach towards the Congress. “I would like to thank Mohammad Salim, Bimanda (Bose) and all workers, responsible members of the Left parties….They’ve shown honesty and have agreed to give most of the seats we had demanded. Hence, from this Brigade grounds, I urge all the people who love me, to fight for their motherland, to give their blood in all the seats that Left parties will contest,” Siddiqui said making it clear that ISF would go all out campaigning for the Left. However, he didn’t say anything like about the Congress, which jarred. Towards the end of his speech, Siddiqui clarified his stand. “I’ve come here for my share. I’ve not come to appease anybody…Hence if anyone wants to extend an arm of friendship, this Abbas Siddiqui will campaign for them in the future,” Siddiqui said, hinting he wouldn’t compromise on the number of seats he demanded from the Congress. Siddiqui’s statements indicated that the alliance among the three constituents is yet to be firmly stitched even though the state elections are scheduled to start on March 27. The ISF wants to contest in many seats in Malda, Murshidabad and North Dinajpur, which has upset the Congress. The Left and ISF have finalised a deal, but problems with the Congress have not been ironed out yet. “The manner in which he was trying to belittle Congress was in poor taste,” said a senior leader of a Left Front ally. During Siddiqui’s address, Chowdhury and other Congress leaders like MP Pradip Bhattacharya and MLA Abdul Mannan were seen either fiddling with their cellphones or sitting with blank looks on their faces. “Adhirda left as soon as Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhpesh Baghel finished his speech... other Congress leaders too...I wonder whether the alliance between the Left and the Congress will suffer at the cost of the alliance between Left and ISF,” a source said. As soon as Siddiqui had finished his speech, the organisers had to ask the crowd to be patient, saying there were many other speakers left, along with CPM general-secretary Sitaram Yechury. All the leaders present on the stage were seen holding hands together as a sign of unity, but Siddiqui and Chowdhury remained separated by people on the dais. “Our party doesn’t run on the commands of Abbas Siddiqui... Our alliance is with the Left and we are yet to finalise on the number of seats we will contest. How can we say how many seats we will give others?” said Chowdhury after the meeting. Amid widening differences between the ISF and the Congress, the Left leaders were seen trying their best — both on the dais and behind closed doors — to ensure truce, but sources said the fine balance seemed easier said than done after Sunday’s meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
01-03-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul mulls fielding own faces in hills||Leaders of Mamata Banerjee’s party in the hills feel Trinamul should field candidates in all three Assembly seats — Darjeeling, Kurseong and Kalimpong — to skirt the factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, who despite being Trinamul allies, are engaged in feuding. “Both factions (Bimal Gurung and Binay Tamang) are desperate to field their own candidates in these seats. Their leaders engage in a war of words and none  is ready to relent. It is evident that if one faction is asked to contest a seat, the other faction will not support it, which can benefit the BJP,” said a Trinamul insider. “Trinamul fielding its own candidates and seeking support from both factions can be more effective,” he added. L.B. Rai, Trinamul president of Darjeeling (hills) district committee, said their workers have been for years going every nook and corner of the hills to establish the party’s base. “We enjoy a support base of over two lakhs in the hills and more and more people are supporting us these days,” Rai said. “In our meetings, we sense our grassroots workers  want the party to field candidates in all these three seats instead of giving them to its allies.” Last October, Trinamul leaders were elated to have  Morcha leader Bimal Gurung on board after he severed ties with the BJP. But his arrival in the hills did not go down well with the Binay Tamang faction of Morcha that has been with Trinamul since 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
01-03-2021||West Bengal||In pics: Show of strength at Left-Cong rally||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
01-03-2021||West Bengal||Political parties tapped on ‘sensitive’ booths in Bengal||The district administration in Jalpaiguri has asked leaders of political parties to submit details of booths they feel should be identified as sensitive and information on areas where they apprehend breach of peace. In an all-party meeting  at the district magistrate’s office here on Sunday, Jalpaiguri district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu asked representatives of parties to submit the details to the administration by March 2. “Primarily, we have identified 294 booths as sensitive, spread across seven Assembly constituencies of the district. We have also told political parties to submit lists of booths and areas they feel should be marked sensitive. This will help us prepare a security deployment plan,” the DM said. Asking political parties, administrative sources said, is a parallel move. Usually, the administration identifies sensitive booths by consulting the police and intelligence agencies. “However, asking political parties as well may prove to be an effective move as we can get additional information about more booths and can act accordingly,” said a source in the district administration. Representatives of political parties present at the meeting said they would soon gather information and submit the list to the administration. The Left, Congress and BJP leaders said they would provide lists of booths where violence was witnessed during the 2018 panchayat and 2019 Lok Sabha elections. District Trinamul leaders said they would also furnish details of areas such as Maynaguri block where their workers had allegedly been murdered. “Our workers have been attacked in a number of locations during the past couple of years. We also have come to know that they are being intimidated and stopped from carrying out campaigns in rural belts. We will submit a detailed list of these,” said Bhaskar Sarkar, Trinamul’s media coordinator in Jalpaiguri. The administration, sources said, has taken up the task to identify booths where in past elections, polling percentage was comparatively less than the district average. “Government officials and security forces will go there to encourage voters there to exercise their rights. Officials will take note if voters cite any problem that discourages them from voting,” a source said. As of now, two companies of central paramilitary forces have reached Jalpaiguri and  are carrying out route marches in several areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
01-03-2021||West Bengal||Joint Forum sees hope in Brigade Parade Grounds turnout||The Left Front and the Congress, along with their new partner Indian Secular Front, held their first joint public meeting at the Brigade Parade Grounds in Calcutta on Sunday, prompting the alliance to claim that the well-attended rally showed that they were ready to take on the BJP and the Trinamul Congress in the Bengal Assembly polls. In what many thought was a historic moment in terms of political alignment, Sunday’s show witnessed leaders of all constituents of the alliance dubbed as the Sanjukta Morcha or the Joint Forum sharing the dais and rolling out claims that they would be the deciding factor in the elections. “A Brigade like this has never been seen in the past. All these forces are here together fighting shoulder to shoulder…. There is no doubt that there will be a change in Bengal,” said CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra. Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury echoed Mishra as he said that he had never spoken at such a huge rally. “The unemployed youths and all the people who have come here today should take a vow that in 2021, you will bring another change in Bengal,” he said. The ISF founder and Furfura Sharif cleric, Abbas Siddiqui, parroted the theme of the meeting saying the new Front would uproot the BJP and its B-team, Trinamul, from Bengal. As expected, the show at the Brigade was aimed at contesting the general perception that the battle for Bengal would be a contest between Trinamul and the BJP. The alliance leaders said the turnout — organisers said the crowd count was 10 lakh while police sources pegged it at around 5 lakh — and the body language of the leaders bore signs that the newly formed Sanjukta Morcha was fast catching the imagination of people of Bengal. Unlike other Brigade shows of the Left, where the red flag had been the predominant theme, Sunday saw an eclectic mix of the tricolour representing the Congress and the ISF’s white-blue-green flag, along with the red flags. However, the presence of the Congress’s flag was much lower compared to the other two. Whatever be the relative contribution of the constituents to the rally, the fact that such a meeting was held just two days after the poll schedule was announced was significant. In 2016, the Left-Congress alliance had held a single major political programme, on April 27 when only two phases of the polls were left. At the Park Circus grounds, the rally brought Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee and Rahul Gandhi together, but it failed to yield any political dividends for the alliance. Then in 2019, both the Left and the Congress fought separately as negotiations over seat sharing went awry. “In comparison to the past, this time it appears the alliance is not only on paper... Leaders from all three constituents as well as supporters were here,” a source in the Congress said. Although the constituents of the fledgling alliance put together a decent show on Sunday, the final test, however, will be how they collectively prepare for the polls and organise ground level activities. While the CPM and the ISF alliance has been sealed, as the latter has been allotted 30 seats to contest, there are hiccups in the seat sharing talks between the Congress and the ISF. The primary reason for the tussle over seats between the Congress and ISF is that both these entities depend on Muslim votes in districts like Maldah, Murshidabad and North Dinajpur. Sources in the Congress said that Congress leaders like Chowdhury and Abu Hasem Khan Choudhury were unwilling to sacrifice their seats in Murshidabad and Malda respectively whereas ISF leaders have said that they won’t bow down to the Congress. Some political observers think if such fissures exist between two alliance partners, it doesn’t bode well for the Front. The fact that the might of the alliance would depend on the extent to which the constituents remain united up to the booth level was stressed by multiple leaders. “We have to take this alliance to the booth levels,” said Left Front chairman Biman Bose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
01-03-2021||West Bengal||Abbas Siddiqui formally inducted into Left-Congress alliance||Bengal on Sunday witnessed the injection of a new dimension into its politics with the formal induction of Abbas Siddiqui, a Furfura Sharif pirzada, who took centre-stage at the Brigade rally of the Left and the Congress with a pledge to uproot both the Trinamul Congress and the BJP. The cleric’s formal entry into mainstream politics — a rarity in Bengal till now — added an element that even sections within both the “secular” allies were uncomfortable with while it drew derision from Trinamul as well as the BJP. “For decades, we had successfully asked crores of Bengal’s minority voters to support a Marxist party and its allies, shunning identity-based politics. Even though many of them had turned away from us in favour of Mamata Banerjee, we had not compromised ideologically,” said an Alimuddin Street insider. “But with the inclusion of Siddiqui’s so-called Indian Secular Front, giving the fledgling outfit 30 seats from the Left quota in the alliance, we will formally be asking the same voters to make a sea-change in their mindset. Will that be reversible in the foreseeable future? We don’t know,” he added. The answers to other questions like the impact of Siddiqui on the upcoming polls or the future of the political discourse in Bengal also remained hazy. Siddiqui supports the cause of the marginalised, including the Dalits, but his party is still seen as deriving its core strength from the minority community. The images of the young Siddiqui emerging as the top draw at Brigade, upstaging Left and Congress stalwarts, his claim that he could have doubled the mega turnout on the ground had he been given more time and his vows to keep the BJP out and teach Mamata a lesson were uncommon features on the Bengal political firmament. Siddiqui’s chest-thumping assertions of being there for bhagidari (the right of a stakeholder) and not for toshon (appeasement) also stood out. In private, an influential section of the Congress, which is having a tough time negotiating with Siddiqui who has been seeking seats for his party in the Congress strongholds in Malda, Murshidabad and North 24-Parganas, also articulated reservations about the Siddiqui phenomenon. “It is being unfairly said that the Congress’s reservations are solely on account of the conflict of interest in districts with a substantial minority population in central Bengal (traditionally, Congress bastions) from which Siddiqui wants seats. There are bigger, wider considerations for the longer term that cannot easily be ignored,” said a source close to state president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury. On the dais, a brief episode of an apparent expression of displeasure by Chowdhury — as Siddiqui walked in to thundering applause and frenzied waving of the countless ISF flags in the crowd — laid bare in full public view the Congress’s discomfort with the equation. “There is also the key question of how this might end up helping the BJP in furthering its agenda of polarisation,” the source added. Mamata’s party, which has conspicuously not been getting in the way of the Left-Congress alliance, expressed disappointment. Trinamul’s septuagenarian minister Subrata Mukherjee said that prior to Sunday afternoon, he had many reservations about the Left and the Congress (his former party) but never did he harbour any doubt about their secular credentials. “That was until this afternoon. There has clearly been an ideological compromise for the sake of immediate electoral concerns. This was not expected of either. It is not a heartening sign of things to come,” said Mukherjee, who has been in Bengal’s electoral politics for over five decades. The BJP is not entirely displeased with the Siddiqui element. If Siddiqui’s party eats into Mamata’s minority support base, it works to the BJP’s advantage. The BJP said the “fake” secular label of the Left and the Congress had been exposed. “They are unmasking themselves before the people ahead of the elections,” said the BJP’s state chief spokesperson, Samik Bhattacharya. “This goes to show how, despite their lofty claims, they are actually believers of identity-based politics,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
01-03-2021||North East||Modi’s praise for Assam’s conservation efforts ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his Mann Ki Baat radio broadcast on Sunday praised the people of poll-bound Assam for their conservation efforts — starting with water birds in Kaziranga to turtles in temple ponds. Modi highlighted the issue based on an “interesting” post by Mayur, a “passionate” birder and nature lover from Haryana on the NaMo App. The post called for appreciation of the people of Assam for the rise in the number of waterfowls in Kaziranga,  “birds that nest not on the trees but on the water, such as ducks and others”. The Kaziranga National Park & Tiger Reserve Authority has been carrying out its annual waterfowls census for some time now, revealing the population of water birds and also about their favourite habitat “You will also be delighted to know that this time the number of water birds has increased by about 175 per cent compared to last year. A total of 112 species of birds have been sighted in Kaziranga National Park during this census. And of these, 58 species happen to be winter migrants from different parts of the world including Europe, Central Asia and East Asia. “The most important reason for this is that here, there is better water conservation along with very little human interference. However, in some cases, positive human interference is also very important,” Modi said. Stressing on “positive” human interference, Modi spoke glowingly of the contribution of Padma Shri Jadav Payeng, popularly known as India’s Forest Man from Majuli district, a person who has “actively contributed in raising about 300 hectares of plantations” and has been constantly working for forest conservation and is also involved in “motivating” people for plantation and conservation of biodiversity. Then he moved to conservation efforts of leading temples in the state playing a “unique role” in the protection of nature. “If you take a look at our temples, you will find that every temple has a pond in the vicinity. The Hayagriva-Madhab Temple at Hajo, the Nagsankar Temple at Sonitpur and the Ugratara Temple at Guwahati have many such ponds nearby. “They are being used to save near extinct species of turtles. Assam is home to the highest number of species of turtles. The ponds of these temples can become excellent sites for their conservation and breeding and training about them,” Modi said. Guwahati-based conservationist Bibhab Kumar Talukdar welcomed the efforts of the prime minister to highlight conservation practices carried out in Assam by both government and civil societies. “We hope he will continue to keep a watch on bio-diversity hotspots by ensuring appropriate balance between environment and development,” Talukdar told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-21
01-03-2021||North East||BPF slams BJP, formally joins Congress alliance||One of Assam’s senior ministers Pramila Rani Brahma vented her ire at the BJP on Sunday, a day after her party — the Bodoland People’s Front — had walked out of the ruling alliance stitched before the 2016 Assembly polls. The BPF on Sunday afternoon formally joined the Congress-led grand alliance in Guwahati and exuded confidence of forming a non-BJP government with absolute majority. “How could we stay with the BJP after what they did to us? They betrayed us... repeatedly insulted us... telling publicly they will not ally with us during and after the BTC polls. They will ally with the new party (UPPL). That is why we left. State BJP president Ranjeet Kumar Dass had publicly said the BPF has no shame because we have not left the government. But why should we leave? Our alliance is for five years,” Pramila, the 1951-born social welfare minister said trying to justify the end of their alliance with the BJP. She went on to add: “We were in the government because we formed it together. It is also our right, not only of the BJP. They treated us like dogs, using us when required and then chasing us away. They did not allow us to function properly, disallowed us from implementing schemes. They will sink because of their arrogance. They will not recover. We have joined the Congress-led mahajot. We will contest 12 seats in the BTC and help the Congress-led alliance outside it.”  Although the BPF lost control of the BTC after 17 long years in December despite coming tantalisingly close to retaining power by winning 17 council seats, three short of majority, it still has the manpower (12 MLAs, of whom three are still ministers in the BJP-led government) and areas of influence that could  impact the BJP-UPPL poll prospects. The BPF had ended its 13-year alliance with the Congress in June 2014 citing lack of development of the BTC under the Congress-led government. One key reason was, however, the change of guard at the Centre — Narendra Modi-led NDA government replacing Manmohan Singh-led UPA regime. The BPF or other smaller regional parties have invariably sided with the party at the Centre but this time the BPF has an “axe to grind” against the BJP for dumping it for UPPL despite its “very public attempts” to work together with the BJP to run the council, political watchers said. The Congress-led alliance welcomed the development for it gave a huge boost to its campaign to oust the “divisive” BJP in the state polls to be held in three phases — March 27, April 1 and 6. This was reflected in PC chief Ripun Bora’s reaction, “The Congress-led Mahajot has increased its strength to seven as our old friend, the Bodoland People’s Front, have joined us today. Assam’s destiny is about to change for the better. Many tributaries join together to make a strong river and the Congress-led Mahajot gets one more partner, the BPF. We are coming to power on May 2. We will settle all poll-related issues by March 5. We also take this opportunity to request the Election Commission to ensure free and fair polls.” Besides the Congress and the BPF, the other constituents of the grand alliance included the Anchalik Gana Morcha,  AIUDF, CPI, CPI (M), and the CPI (ML). BPF chief Hagrama Mohilary said they have formally joined the mahahjot because of the prevailing situation under the BJP. “If we have to save Assam, the constitutional rights of the various communities, we have to join the Congress-led Mahajot and jointly fight the polls. We have to oust BJP from Assam.  We are sure we will form the government. A new government is coming under the mahajot with absolute majority. I am very happy today,” Mohilary said. The majority mark is 64 in a house of 126. The Congress had won 26, AIUDF 13 and BPF 12 seats out in the 2016 elections. The ruling BJP played down the developments, asserting that BPF quitting the alliance was a foregone conclusion, a reason why the BJP joined hands with the United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL) and campaigned aggressively against the BPF in the Bodoland Territorial Council polls in December 2020. “BPF joining the Congress-led alliance has vindicated our stand of joining hands with the UPPL. We could see through the secret understanding BPF had with the Congress and the AIUDF evident from the mass transfer of Muslim votes to the BPF in the BTC polls. They have joined the alliance only because of power, it is against the wishes of the Bodo people,” BJP spokesperson Lakhya Konwar told The Telegraph. He also dismissed senior minister Brahma’s allegations. “We have never humiliated anyone. Had we wanted to humiliate BPF we would have asked their ministers to resign from the council of ministers. They are still continuing. How can this be betrayal?” Konwar  asked. Congress’ general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will be visiting the state for two days from Monday. She will be campaigning in Lakhimpur and Sonitpur districts to boost the party’s prospects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-21
01-03-2021||Opinion||Rights first: India's migrant workers||The invisibility of India’s migrant constituency starts to dissipate when their numbers become apparent. This happened when thousands of migrant workers, pushed to desperation by the loss of jobs owing to the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown last year, were forced to make arduous journeys on foot back to their home states. Suddenly a suffering people erupted on the national radar although their labour has, for decades, propelled the nation’s growth. Nearly 80 per cent of migrant workers in the informal sector lost their jobs and many casualties were reported during their march home. Yet the government, in another telling show of indifference, informed Parliament recently that it is ‘still collecting’ data on the number of deaths of migrant workers. Addressing the plight of such a mobile, diffused but significant section of the population requires an understanding of complex, intersecting issues. The Niti Aayog’s draft policy on migrant workers is thus a welcome initiative. It highlights some of the most pressing problems plaguing migrant labour: loopholes in existing legislations designed to protect the constituency from exploitation; the absence of a rights-based approach towards empowerment; lack of development in home states and access to dignified, well-paid jobs that lead them to migrate in the first place, and so on. Hearteningly, the draft makes valuable suggestions to address the problem. For instance, given the weaknesses inherent to the Inter State Migrant Workers Act, 1979, the draft calls for a comprehensive law that would safeguard the rights of all migrant workers and form the legal basis for building a social security system. This is crucial on several counts, not least of which is that internal migrants are not registered as voters in their places of work, thereby pushing them to the margins of welfare initiatives that invariably prioritize local population over migrants. But enumeration and social security would not be enough. Affirmative action must take place at the policy level to treat migrants as equal citizens with secure access to basic entitlements such as food, education, healthcare and labour rights. But such a recognition is unlikely to come to pass unless the State acknowledges that the welfare of the nation is inextricably linked to that of the migrant worker.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-64
01-03-2021||Opinion||Dry future: ‘Perseverance’, the Mars rover||Sir — Only time and ‘Perseverance’ — the Mars rover — can answer if there is life on Mars. It is hard to imagine the effect on the human imagination if we learn that life has not only existed on our planet, but also elsewhere. But what can be said without any doubt is that if life did exist, it met the same arid end that human beings soon will if they continue to disregard the warnings of scientists regarding climate change. Increasing heat, a thinning atmosphere, rapidly evaporating water can turn Earth into the same dry wasteland that is the red planet at present. Arindam Chatterjee,Calcutta Dreaded word Sir — Ramachandra Guha should be lauded for the bold article, “Colossal figure” (Feb 27). The introductory paragraphs were not only enlightening for us but they also offered interesting and alarming parallels a hundred years apart. I would have to differ with Guha only on one point — how can “Modiabad” see the light of day, given the supreme allergy of the saffron ecosystem towards the Persian suffix, abad? After all, who can forget that Allahabad has already been consigned to the dustbin of history and Faizabad has been sanitized of its Islamic nomenclature. The day is not far when Ahmedabad, Aurangabad and Hyderabad will be renamed owing to the antipathy of the Hindutva elements towards the last four letters of these names. Is not purging Islamic history from all Indian towns and cities the foremost agenda in the nationalist programme of undoing 1,200 years of slavery? “Modiabad” is thus not an option. “Narendra Mahanagar” is much safer. Kajal Chatterjee,Calcutta Skewed focus Sir — The environment activist, Subhas Datta, deserves immense praise for his wake-up call to the electorate as well as those seeking votes about environmental issues in the run up to the West Bengal assembly elections (“Green activists urge parties to focus on environment”, Feb 27). With political parties focusing on selfish, short-term interests, the environment has been conveniently forgotten. Among the burning environmental issues plaguing Bengal, Datta has identified worsening air pollution, shoddy waste management and the damage being inflicted on the fragile ecology of the Sunderbans as some of the areas of concern. Yet, political leaders seem blissfully unaware of these issues at their election rallies. The phasing out of commercial vehicles older than 15 years as directed by the Calcutta High Court, the introduction of clear fuel like CNG for public transport or the banning single-use plastic find no mention in their election speeches. The public in general, too, is oblivious to the fact that seven cities in Bengal — Calcutta, Howrah, Barrackpore, Durgapur, Asansol, Raniganj and Haldia — have been classified as non-attainment areas — places considered to have air quality worse than the national ambient air quality — by the Central Pollution Control Board. Datta also spoke about the large-scale destruction of mangroves, which act as natural barriers to devastating storms like Amphan, leaving villagers in the Sunderbans vulnerable to cyclones. This results in saline water from the sea flowing further upstream and destroying acres of agricultural lands, depriving the villagers of their livelihood and threatening the ecology of the Hooghly river. These questions of life and death are not being brought up by the political leaders while campaigning for votes. Unfortunately, this is true of parties across the political spectrum that rely on populism and are afraid to take difficult decisions. Jahar Saha,Calcutta Sir — It was encouraging to read that environmental activists are urging political parties to spell out how they will tackle the ever increasing environmental problems in their election manifestos. The activist, Subhas Datta, rightly states that while political parties are vocal on solving the farmers’ problems or the rising oil prices, on issues like an action plan for clean air or deforestation in the Sunderbans, they have nothing to say. Political parties should include issues pertaining to the environment in their election manifestos for the forthcoming assembly elections. But most politicians have neither a clue about ecological issues nor a clear stand on natural resources and their equitable distribution. They should bring aboard environmental activists to consult on what ails our cities and the state and clearly state their agenda going forward. Dyutiman Bhattacharya,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-64
01-03-2021||Opinion||Residual role: state and economic development||The prime minister’s recent remark about the ‘business of government is not to be in business’ is a well-known conservative articulation of the role of the State in economic development. The concept of the State revolves around the relative efficiency of the private sector, minimally regulated by the State’s fiscal and monetary policies along with the institutions that support market activities like courts and law-and-order enforcement agencies. The government has a residual role in providing services, which involves the production of public goods and, to some extent, bolstering the provision of adequate educational and health services. Despite these strong views that many economists and business persons hold, many countries do have public sector units that produce such critical inputs as oil, power, railway services and industries that are considered to be of strategic interest. The government, it is argued, cannot run businesses efficiently. Private profit earners take care of their businesses better and if losses are incurred, they are not passed on to the tax-payers. These are stereotypical views. There are exceptions as well where public sector companies run as star performers and private sector companies have abysmal levels of efficiency. There are historical reasons that need to be examined. In India, the origin of the public sector during the 1950s stemmed from the lack of large and mature entrepreneurs who could organize large-scale investments with long gestation lags in such arenas as steel, fertilizers, power, oil and railways. The State stepped in to create the ‘temples of modern India’ with which the private sector could grow and become experienced enough to ultimately take on the mantle of captains of industry. In today’s India, private investors are strong enough to take on the activities that exist under the umbrella of the public sector. Hence the government has prioritized the sale of PSUs and embarked on a process of privatization that rolls back the government from the market economy. However, what becomes of the economy is determined to a very significant extent by the quality of the government’s economic policies, the stability of its regulations, the depth of its institutions and, above all, by what it does for social and human development for those at the bottom of the pyramid. A large role remains for the government hovering in the periphery of private business — influencing it, controlling it, giving it direction. The mere absence of a public sector is neither a necessary, nor a sufficient, condition for improving the health of India’s economy and society.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
01-03-2021||Opinion||Greta storm in a tea cup||When the controversy over Greta Thunberg’s tweet on farmers’ protests erupted in India, Charles Dickens burst into my memory. One of the unforgettable moments in the Dickensian oeuvre is in Oliver Twist. Oliver, famishing in the parish workhouse, dares to plead, ‘Please, Sir. A little more gruel.’ Bumble, the parish beadle, sees this timid cry as an insurrection. As per the workhouse rules, the inmates were required to be absolutely silent at meals. Oliver’s cry broke the rule. Dickens implies that the offence of an action is determined by regulations. Remove the rule and Oliver’s plea becomes innocuous. But with the rule in place, it is seditious, so to speak. If I were to teach the text today, I would connect it to Plato’s Allegory of the Cave in the Republic. Its inmates live as spectators of shadows. One of them goes out and encounters the truth. So long as he keeps the truth he knows to himself, there’s no problem. But what if he were to return to the Cave and liberate its inmates from their vacuous existence? He may; indeed, he must. But there’s a price to pay. “They will kill him,” writes Plato, “if they manage to lay their hands on him!” Socrates, Plato’s mentor, faced this conundrum. As a philosopher, he did his best to lead the youth of Athens to truth. This made him, as a citizen, guilty of ‘impiety’. He was accused of corrupting them. The Socratic predicament raises the following question: can a citizen be also a truth-seeker? To tell the truth, is to tell it ‘as it is’. But who has the right to know the given situation as it is? Can the individual’s liberty to know and share the truth exceed the right of the State to take care of itself? Didn’t Baruch Spinoza maintain in the 17th century that there is “no higher law” for a commonwealth “than the safety of his realm”? This is where Greta comes in, presumably armed with conspiracies against India. It is bad enough if a citizen presumes the right to describe a situation as he thinks it is. But outsiders like Rihanna, Greta, et al? They add a measure of complication to the ‘truth versus State’ dynamics that Plato could not have foreseen. How can outsiders know ‘the situation as it is’? Well, they don’t. Then why do they meddle with our affairs? There’s only one explanation: they are conspirators. After all, aren’t we living in a world of conspiracy theories? Controversies, fortified with relentless propaganda, have the power to galvanize a people more potently than any of the old-world religions. Let us return, briefly, to Oliver’s ‘asking for more’. Dickens constructs this scene in defiance of Newton’s third law of motion: action and reaction are equal and opposite. This law reflects the symmetry and reciprocity in nature. One body cannot exert a force on another without provoking a corresponding reactive force. Dickens makes Bumble react to the cry of a starving boy with disproportionate force. He overpowers and stigmatizes the boy. Oliver’s cry is turned into a primal offence via Bumble’s overreaction. Dickens means that this offence is not intrinsic to the action, but contrived and ascribed. Oliver does not have the right to decide whether he intended offence or not. That right rests solely with the parish establishment. To the workhouse, its interests are supreme. It enjoys the right to frame the laws. Who doesn’t know that laws are framed, argues Leo Tolstoy, with an eye to preserve the interests of the elite? Also, what is good for common folks is decided for them by those who, unlike them, know what is what, and, therefore, what is good for them. Once again, the ordeal of truth comes to the fore. Who shall decide what is in the best interests of the farmers and, therefore, the truths pertaining to how they are pursued? That brings us to Vincent van Gogh’s depictions of peasant life. Look, in particular, at the one depicting a pair of peasant boots. The artist invests the rustic, muddy, over-worn pair of boots with power and poignancy, immortalizing the mud-slaked boots as a witness to the grimness and forlornness of the peasant as he struggles to bring out the goodness of the earth to feed his fellow men. The truth is that our policymakers, political strategists and fly-by-night desh bhakts know not the sweat and struggle that underlie the food on their tables. How do you think the striking farmers have endured, in the bitter wintry chill, for as long as they have? Well, look, again, at van Gogh’s paintings. The farmers are steeled by the rigour of their life. They are living their protest. This is, alas, bad optics. The international attention must be negotiated with dignified restraint. It does not behove the stature of India to play Bumble to private opinion-makers beyond our borders. Public sentiments are culturally toned. Western societies value personal liberty and freedom of expression. As in Dickens’s workhouse, we can modulate the matrix of legitimacy to suit national interests. Our national interests are unlikely to be understood and embraced by the rest of the world exactly as we do. Asymmetry in reactions betrays lurking insecurity. Sending a ‘strong’ signal to the citizenry in India may be read differently by others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
01-03-2021||Opinion||Beyond dreams of art||In a letter to the artist, Asit Kumar Haldar, Abanindranath Tagore asked him not to be a gurumoshai and frighten students when teaching in “Bolpur”: “Remember, to teach birds one must turn into a bird too.” By Bolpur, Abanindranath meant Kala Bhavana, the fine arts school that Rabindranath Tagore had begun in Santiniketan. It started operating as a separate entity — not part of the original school — from 1919, two years before Visva-Bharati was recognized as a university. The relationship between teacher and student suggested by Abanindranath was intrinsic to his uncle’s idea of education and, according to artists from all over the country who have learnt or taught in Kala Bhavana, is one of its enduring features. This alone — overturning a traditional hierarchy — would put the institution at odds with today’s regime. In an address in Chennai called “The Centre of Indian Culture” in 1919, Rabindranath Tagore had said that “the mission of all education is to lead us beyond the present date...” This idea underlay the statement of the art historian, R. Siva Kumar, a former student, teacher and principal of Kala Bhavana, at the Kochi Biennale in 2017 that the contingent nature of preparations for the future required teachers to be learners too, fellow travellers with their students. Although going beyond hierarchies — embedded structures of power — is a mirage in the present political ethos, what remains undefeated is the other kind of power that Rabindranath’s ideas about teaching and the place of art generated, permeating the thinking, working and teaching of many of the artists and historians of art who have passed through or still inhabit the world of Kala Bhavana. Yet in its 100 years, the institution, together with the university of which it is part, has undergone numerous changes. In 1933, Sangit Bhavana took over music and dancing from Kala Bhavana, but the watershed came when Visva-Bharati became a Central university in 1951, subject to all the pertinent rules. But the procession of matchless artists who worked and taught there, beginning with Nandalal Bose, Benode Behari Mukherjee and Ramkinkar Baij, continues unbroken, like a still potent flowering of the unknown future implicit in the founder’s dreams for art and education. The breakdown of hierarchies was a determining element in Rabindranath’s ideas of learning. In “Kalavidya”, where he promises that the teaching of music and the fine arts would have a major role when Visva-Bharati became a university, he says that human beings express their inner love and desire not only by creating beauty in everyday objects, but also through music and the fine arts. The equality implied here demolishes traditional divisions between ‘high’ art and ‘craft’ while absorbing the energy of folk traditions. Education is pointless unless it brings us into an “organic connection” with our surroundings, Rabindranath said in the 1919 Chennai address, expressing his belief that “our educational institutions should be in the very heart of our society, connected with it by living bonds of varied co-operations”. The politics implicit in this vision has a broad and eventful context. A few months before Nandalal Bose took charge of Kala Bhavana, Tagore had written to Lord Carmichael, returning his knighthood. Jallianwala Bagh had hurt him deeply — and it had nothing to do with the attachment to rigidly nationalistic ideals which he had by then overcome. That aggressive nationalism and communal conflicts surrounding the partition of Bengal in 1905 put him off is clear in novels such as Gora and Ghare Baire, and he repeatedly spoke about the limitations of nation-based patriotism. But he did attribute the joylessness of life to Europe’s introduction of machines — as did William Morris, poet, writer, artist, designer, craftsman and a Socialist with an unflagging belief in the power of art to transform life — and in “Kalavidya”, Rabindranath described art as the expression of a human being’s inner vitality, without which a race loses its love of life, even the ability to work. He put down neglect of art education in India to the single-minded pursuit of an English-based education aimed at jobs. While establishing fine arts education as an integral part of university life, Rabindranath emphasized the diversity of personalities that found expression in art. Nurturing diverse abilities, expressions, techniques and forms while breaking the barriers between outside and inside, connecting the university with the busy lives and activities surrounding it, also meant destroying less visible power structures. Diversity, too, is unpopular now. At the time, Rabindranath believed that the traditions of Indian art had been obstructed, but pure revivalism did not satisfy him. He wished for a new art, in touch with the contemporary and open to the world, both East and West. Sending back the artist, Kampo Arai, from Japan, he wrote to Gaganendranath Tagore that our consciousness is keenly awakened when prodded by a new stimulus from outside. That Stella Kramrisch came to deliver 43 lectures on Western art was one outstanding instance of his efforts at sharing stimuli. The politics of his art education grew in inclusiveness. The First World War had deepened his conviction of the evils of narrow nationalism while suggesting the possibility of creating peace through bonds of culture. Nationalism — blind loyalty to the nation-state — brought out the most aggressive and selfish elements in people, he said in 1919, while culture was open-ended and dynamic, allowing creative sharing and the building of international alliances. He wrote to his son in 1916 that he wished to make the school at Santiniketan “a link between India and the world”. On Bengali new year’s day in 1918, he said to the students that “our ashram has raised no walls, drawn no boundary lines”. Visitors arrived from different parts of the world, “crossing all hurdles — of oceans, nationhood, region-born customs, religious practice”. Hoping in 1916 for a centre in Santiniketan that would “study humanity across all races and nations”, he gave it clearer shape in 1919: “... [I]n our centre of Indian learning we must provide for the co-ordinated study of all these different cultures — the Vedic, the Puranic, the Buddhist, the Jain, the Islamic, the Sikh and the Zoroastrian. And side by side... the European...” Besides living languages, folk literature would be studied too, to understand the psychology of “our people” and the direction in which “our underground current of life is moving”. Of course he was not alone in this venture; he had around him and after him people who through dedication, sacrifice, wisdom and belief in the vision made it as realistic and practical as possible. Change is inevitable, but it is amazing that the meanest of politics, academic and otherwise, has not — so far — been able to uproot the greater politics at the service of education, art, co-operation, cultural dynamism, the sense of fulfilment and freedom that determines the inner structure of the institution. It is, therefore, somewhat disconcerting to have the chancellor of the university tell students at the convocation that they should rise above their own interests and adopt a ‘nation-first’ approach. Sadly for us, in 1916, Rabindranath had thought that “the age of narrow-minded nationalism is approaching its end”. But was there a message in the chancellor’s reference to highly educated people spreading terror at a time when the prisons are full of students charged with sedition and ‘unlawful’ activities and Disha Ravi had been arrested? Visva-Bharati students were given a new kind of choice — of being the problem or its solution. Since thinking nation-first was the cure-all, the choice had not existed at all. The present vice-chancellor, meanwhile, is frankly impolite — to a degree that does not bear repetition. But it is the chancellor, the vice-chancellor and their cohorts that make the news, not Kala Bhavana’s centenary. Perhaps the choice Morris offered in his 1881 lecture, “Art and the Beauty of the Earth”,  is the one we must make: “So, which shall we have, art or dirt?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
01-03-2021||Jharkhand||Fire breaks out at Canary Hill, no one injured||Shib Shankar Goswami, a teacher at St Xavier’s School, Hazaribagh, was travelling to Koderma via NH 33 when he spotted flames engulfing the trees of Canary Hills, a famous tourist spot of the district, on Sunday evening. Goswami, an avid bird watcher, immediately alerted senior forest officer Pyarelal Saw about the fire. The officer immediately sprung into action. He formed a team of six forest officials and reached the spot identified by the school teacher. The team led by Saw took 45 minutes to put out the wildfire. He confirmed the gutting of bushes and small plants. Terming the incident as unfortunate, he blamed the smokers for causing the mishap. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Pyarelal said, “We had to scale the hill to reach the spot. After dousing the flames, we had to go climb up to its peak once again to control the fire,” he added. According to him smokers climb up the hill, throw cigarette butts without extinguishing it. Given the fact that around this time a lot of trees shed their leaves, such acts of carelessness lead to such fires. “The Canary Hill is not a property of the forest department but that of the local people. They need to care for this place. No town can boast of such a picturesque natural beauty in its area,” claimed Pyarelal. He also said that people should avoid going on top of the hill with matchsticks. “I have asked the caretakers to ensure that people going on the peak should not carry matchsticks with them,” he added. Goswami said people coming here should realise that a small mistake of theirs can cause a big damage to this hill. “I felt deep pain on seeing the flames engulfing trees at the peak of Canary Hill,” he said. Other than Pyarelal, the team that reached the spot comprised - Anil Kumar, Subodh Kumar, Jaipal, Ramchandra and Sanjay Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-126
01-03-2021||Jharkhand||Health centre with OPD facility opens at Belgarhia||A well-equipped health centre was launched on Monday at Jharia Vihar Colony of Belgarhia to address the health care needs of around 5,000 families of 595 underground fire-affected sites, who have been rehabilitated in the colony since March 25, 2010. The centre is launched on a temporary basis for 5-6 months in two residential quarters of Phase I of Jharia Vihar Colony. It will offer OPD service from 10 am to 5 pm with the consultancy of general physicians, gynaecologists, orthopaedics, etc. Dr Durga Patwari provided medical consultancy on the inaugural day and she will offer her services for the next two days as well. This, apart from several other doctors as per the detailed schedule prepared by the Jharia Rehabilitation & Development Authority (JRDA), will be available at the centre. Some of them are Yamuna Kumari and Rajendra Kumar on Monday; Rekha Kumari and Beauty Kumar Dutta on Wednesday; and Arvind Kumar and Md Ainul Ansari on Thursday. A few orthopaedics and gynaecologists will also offer their services at the centre on other days. Talking to the media, Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh, who inaugurated the facility as chief guest said, “The residents of Belgarhia used to face difficulty day and night due to lack of any hospital and healthcare centre in the adjoining area. During our inspection of the colony two months ago, the residents had also demanded a healthcare facility in the colony.” “We have established the health centre as a temporary arrangement for three-four months for which some infrastructure development work like shade construction and paver block laying is being carried out but gradually the centre will be replaced with a full-fledged health centre which is being developed in Phase III of Belgarhia where 24x7 medical care facility would be provided and residents will not have to go outside to seek medical care facilities,” informed Singh who is also the ex-officio managing director of JRDA. “We have taken all issues affecting the newly rehabilitated people as a challenge and to address the source of livelihood requirement we have made arrangements to engage them in unskilled and semiskilled work in the upcoming construction work of around Rs 300-400 crore in Belgarhia,” said Singh, who was accompanied today during the inauguration by Rehabilitation and Resettlement in-charge of JRDA, Gulzar Anjum; General Manager of Lodna area of BCCL, GD Nigam and General Manager (Jharia Master plan) of BCCL PK Dubey and others. “Simultaneously, we have also hired an agency which is carrying out the profiling of youth and other job seekers of Jharia based on their qualification, etc. and suitable livelihood arrangement would be made after preparation of the job profile,” said Singh. “We have also decided to carry out the third-party evaluation of all construction work made in Belgarhia, where payment to contractors would be made after the certification of their work by the third party hired for the evaluation of work,” divulged Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-126
01-03-2021||Jharkhand||914 elders get Covishield jabs across state on Day One||As many as 914 senior citizens, including 181 from Ranchi and 129 from Bokaro, were administered a dose of the Covishield vaccine in Jharkhand on Monday, the first day of the immunization programme for people above the age of 60, data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. At least 126 people above the age of 45 years and suffering from comorbid conditions also got the vaccine in the state on Monday, a report released by the NHM said, further highlighting that as many as 44 of the beneficiaries were from Bokaro and only 18 from Ranchi. As per government data, no senior citizen turned up for the vaccination in Khunti district, while at least 11 of 24 districts did not administer even a single middle-aged beneficiary with comorbid conditions. East Singhbhum, with district headquarters in Jamshedpur, administered the vaccine to only 33 senior citizens and three persons above the age of 45 years. The government aims to inoculate around 37 lakh senior citizens and people with comorbidities in the second phase of the vaccination drive in Jharkhand, an NHM official said. He added that the number of senior citizens getting vaccinated daily would increase gradually as more empanelled hospitals start administering the jabs in the state. The vaccination programme in Jharkhand was suspended on Saturday and Sunday as healthcare workers in private hospitals were being trained,   officials said. On Monday, the state achieved only 21 per cent of its target for vaccination of healthcare workers and frontline workers by inoculating only 3826 of over 18,000 registered beneficiaries, revealed government data. Ranchi achieved only 15 per cent of its vaccination target for healthcare workers and frontline workers on the day, while Lohardaga was the worst performer with only 7 per cent target achieved. Bokaro performed the best even in vaccinating healthcare workers and frontline workers. The district vaccinated 353 beneficiaries and achieved 67 per cent of its target. The registration for vaccination of senior citizens and middle-aged people with comorbid conditions was done through the Co-Win 2.0 portal in most of the hospitals, but beneficiaries also had the choice to register in person or over the phone. So far, the state has administered the first dose of the vaccine to 2,95,242 people and the second dose to 27,911 people, as per government data. On Monday, as many as 4,154 of 10,257 beneficiaries were administered the second dose of the vaccine in Jharkhand. Jharkhand has so far achieved 81 per cent of its target for the first dose of vaccine and 68 per cent of the target for the second dose. As many as 37 people were infected by the Covid-19 virus on Monday in Jharkhand, while 46 patients recovered, bringing the number of active cases down to 485, a bulletin released by NHM on Monday night stated. However, the number of active cases jumped to 286 in Ranchi as the district reported only 18 recoveries against 22 fresh cases. There were no Covid casualties on Monday. With 44 fresh cases and 40 recoveries, Jharkhand reported a minor rise in the number of active cases on Sunday. However, Ranchi witnessed a drop in active cases as 23 people were found infected and 28 patients recovered. In the past 48 hours, Jharkhand has reported two Covid casualties, both on Sunday, and a drop in active cases from 494 to 485. So far, as many as 1,090 people have died of Covid-19 in the state and 246 of them were from Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-126
01-03-2021||Jharkhand||Most Ranchi schools decide to reopen in April ||Most private English medium schools of Ranchi did not resume campus lessons for classes 8, 9, 11, on Monday and decided to postpone reopening till the start of the next academic session citing lack of resources and manpower to implement necessary Covid-19 safeguards, and those that did start classes witnessed poor attendance on Day One, leading to speculation that they may continue with online teaching till April. After remaining shut due to the nationwide lockdown for close to a year, schools, colleges and coaching centres, along with public parks and cinema halls,  were allowed to reopen from March 1. For schools, the government order, however, allowed offline classes in addition to the existing practice of online teaching only for middle and higher class students. Don Bosco Public School in Kokar was among the handful of schools that held on-campus classes on Monday. Principal Father Jyotish Kr. Kindo said that although there wasn’t 100 per cent attendance, those who turned up were happy to be back on campus. “We are following social distancing in classes and have made arrangements for thermal scanning, sanitisers and soaps for washing as prescribed by the state government. Since other classes are closed, currently we don’t have a problem accommodating students in accordance with social distancing norms,” he said. But most premier schools maintained they were already burdened with conducting online annual exams, and would, therefore, reopen in April. DPS principal Ram Singh said that after reviewing the ground situation, they have decided to ask students to come to the campus from April. “Currently, it’s time for annual examinations for all classes in the majority of schools. In such a situation, it will be difficult to handle offline classes along with online exams. Unlike earlier times, one has to take lots of aspects into consideration to ensure the safety of children and staff because of the ongoing pandemic. So we have decided to resume offline teaching for classes permitted by the government from April," he said. Oxford Public School also announced reopening in April. “Almost all top schools will resume campus classes from April. Many parents weren’t keen to send students at a time when Covid cases are again rising. Ranchi is getting the maximum cases out of the state's daily increase. In such a situation, parents don't seem to be keen to send their wards to school.  April will be the best time to resume,” said a school official. Samarjit Jana, principal of JVM Shyamali School, agreed. “We are readying our campus to reopen from April for Classes 8, 9 and 11 in a phased manner,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-126
01-03-2021||Jharkhand||Sanjeev Singh's lawyers move plea against Dhanbad jail officer, IG Prisons ||Sanjeev Singh's lawyer moved a petition in a local court on Monday against Dhanbad jail superintendent Ajay Kumar and IG (Prisons) Virendra Bhushan for violating its orders and delaying the transfer of the .former Jharia MLA from Dumka prison. The court of Additional District and Session Judge IV admitted lawyer Md Javed's petition and said it would hold a hearing on Tuesday, March 2. "The court in it’s February 25 order instructed the jail superintendent Ajay Kumar to transfer back Sanjeev Singh to Dhanbad immediately. It also observed that nobody was above the law whatever position or post he/she may hold and that the majesty of law should always be maintained," Javed told The Telegraph Online. "As Sanjeev is yet to be shifted as per court orders, we have moved criminal contempt petitions against the jail superintendent, who was physically present during the court proceedings when the order was passed," he added. Javed also pointed out that while the jail superintendent immediately acted on the February 20 executive order of IG (Prisons) and shifted Sanjeev to distant Dumka Central Jail on Sunday (February 21), he had not responded to the court order of February 25 to transfer him back to Dhanbad even after four days have passed. This, he alleged, indicated "disrespect" to the judiciary. Jail IG Virendra Bhushan told the media he was yet to receive the court order of February 25 and added that he would take appropriate legal recourse after procuring the order. Sanjeev Singh, arrested by Dhanbad police on April 11, 2017, as a key conspirator of Niraj Singh murder case of March 21, 2017, was transferred to Dumka jail by the Dhanbad jail staff on February 21 citing security reasons. On behalf of Sanjeev, Javed filed two petitions in court on February 22. One petition challenged the transfer of an undertrial prisoner against an earlier high court order while the other demanded that a show-cause notice be slapped on the superintendent, Ajay Kumar. On February 23, the court show caused the jail superintendent while hearing Javed’s petition and asked him to submit a reply on February 25. But on February 25, the court termed Kumar's reply as unsatisfactory and instructed him to immediately transfer Sanjeev Singh to the Dhanbad jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-126
01-03-2021||Jharkhand||Police seize marijuana worth Rs 2.5 lakh from Sitaramdera bus terminus ||In a major breakthrough against drugs, the police on Monday arrested four persons from Sitaramdera bus terminus and seized marijuana worth over Rs 2.5 lakh from them. Those arrested are residents of Bihar and were caught with a consignment of marijuana which was being smuggled to the steel city from Odisha by interstate bus. Revealing about the breakthrough, superintendent of police, City, Subhash Chandra Jat said they arrested the smugglers on a tip-off. "We had prior information that some people were smuggling marijuana from a certain place in adjoining Odisha by interstate buses plying between the two states. We had, therefore, set up a special team to nab the smugglers. A team led by the OC of Sitaramdera police station, Akhilesh Mandal, caught the gang with 22 kg marijuana from the bus stand on Monday," said Jat while speaking to the newsmen. He said those arrested were supposed to carry the marijuana consignment to Bihar by another bus. Jat, when queried, said the traffickers used to carry marijuana in private vehicles from Odisha on a regular basis earlier. But since the marijuana consignments were seized during checking on the national highway time and again in the past, they changed their strategy and had started carrying the drug by bus and in a smaller quantity He said the arrested persons, identified as Ravindra Yadav, Motichandra Kusbaha, Lorik Yadav and Subh Goswami, were interrogated about their destination and about other gangs involved in the racket. All the four accused were sent to Ghaghidih Central Jail after they were produced before a judicial magistrate in the afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-126
01-03-2021||Jharkhand||RU holds first ever virtual convocation ceremony ||For the first time since its establishment in 1960, Ranchi University (RU) organised a virtual convocation ceremony for limited guests and gave away certificates in person only to around 63 toppers on Monday amid Covid-19 restrictions. While RU Vice Chancellor Ramesh Pandey and Pro Vice Chancellor Kamini Kumar conferred certificates and medals to the toppers of undergraduate and postgraduate courses in the auditorium of the Institute of Law Studies in a low-key event on campus, Governor Droupadi Murmu addressed students via video conferencing from Raj Bhavan on the 34th Convocation ceremony. Besides the 63 toppers, at least 77 Ph.D students were conferred certificates at six different locations in various departments, RU authorities said. The Governor’s address was webcast live to all the students in the various departments. “It gives me immense pleasure to be present virtually with you all on this day. However, I would have been happier had I got the opportunity to see you all in person on this special day,” said Murmu, adding that the smile on the faces of students on convocation day gave her great joy. Quoting Mahatma Gandhi, Murmu said that right education lets people’s actions speak louder than words and inculcates the feeling of helping others. “Ranchi University is one of the oldest universities in Jharkhand, and it has achieved a good name across India with its achievements,” said the Governor. She added that education was the most important pillar of development in India as it lets a person find inspiration and purpose in life. Education, she said, should also inculcate patriotism and the intent to serve society among students. The Chancellor said the new education policy of 2020 aims at promoting mother tongue, Indian-ness and morality. Following the new education policy and ensuring that students benefit from it have emerged as major challenges for the varsity, she added. While the toppers were excited to get gold medals from the VC and Pro VC, some of them claimed that getting medals at the convocation ground in presence of family and friends would have been more satisfying. “I am happy that we at least had a convocation ceremony where we could get our medals and certificates. However, this cannot match the thrill and enthusiasm associated with getting awarded in presence of our near and dear ones at a huge gathering of several hundred people,” said Saurav Munda, the topper of Masters in Mass Communication. Every year, the varsity holds its convocation ceremony at the convocation ground on the RU campus at Morhabadi, where the toppers are conferred certificates by a chief guest and a guest of honour. Last year, President Ramnath Kovind attended the convocation ceremony and handed over certificates and medals to toppers in a grand event. The decision of keeping the convocation ceremony a low-key affair was taken in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases in the state capital. Certificates and medals were given to PG students of 2018-2020 batch and undergraduate students of 2017-2020 batch on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-127
01-03-2021||Jharkhand||State tables supplementary budget in Assembly amid ruckus ||The Hemant Soren government tabled its second annual budget, this time for Rs 7323 crore, in the Assembly on Monday amid protests from both ruling and Opposition MLAs on various issues. Amid the pandemonium, state finance minister Rameshwar Oraon presented the supplementary budget in the second half of the day before the House was adjourned at 2 pm. The first supplementary budget of Rs 2584.83 crore for the ongoing fiscal year was tabled during last year’s brief monsoon session in September. The supplementary demand for grants for 2020-21 fiscal included Rs 996 crore for rural development, Rs 269 crore for urban development, Rs 352 crore for water resources, Rs 226 crore for agriculture, Rs 181 crore for women and child development. Before the start of the day's proceedings at 11am, MLAs of the ruling Congress and RJD staged protests against the BJP-led government at the Centre, accusing it of looting people by successive hikes in fuel and LPG prices. Several MLAs stood with empty cylinders, held banners and posters to denounce the Narendra Modi government for putting crores of people under financial stress. Congress MLA from Mahagama Dipika Pandey Singh said, “We have been fighting against the steep rise in fuel prices for several weeks through protests, demonstrations and by raising our voices in state Assemblies and Parliament. At a time when Covid-19 has led to financial distress , such hikes only compound people's woes. How can the government be so insensitive?.” BJP MLAs protested against the JMM-Congress-RJD coalition government in the state, accusing it of duping job-seekers by scrapping the recruitment policy. They also highlighted growing lawlessness in the state. Minutes after the House commenced, BJP MLA fom Chandankyari Amar Bauri moved a work adjournment motion demanding a discussion on issues concerning the state. Accusing the Hemant government of political vendetta, he said the recruitment policy devised by the previous BJP government had reserved class III and IV jobs for locals for 10 years. “However, the state government scrapped it, citing objections raised by high court. But it must answer why it went to Supreme Court in the first place to defend it and suddenly took a U-turn putting the fate of thousands of job seekers in the lurch?,” he said. Soon, all BJP MLAs walked into the Well of the House and raised slogans, forcing speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto to adjourn the House till 12.30pm. Similar scenes prevailed after the House resumed till it was finally adjourned at 2pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-127
01-03-2021||Jharkhand||Elderly women burnt alive in late night fire ||An 85-year-old woman from Kankani Hanuman Bazar area under Loyabad Police station was burnt alive in a late night fire on Sunday at her son’s grocery shop. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained. Anant Mittal, the shop owner who lives at Galla Patti locality of Karkend, closed his shop at around 9 pm and went home, leaving his mother who resided in the shop inside. Mukesh Pandit, a nearby tea stall owner, who spotted smoke and fire coming out of Mittal's shop, raised an alarm. Later, he went to Mittal's home along with another shopkeeper, Md Salim. All long a large number of neighbours and other shopkeepers who had gathered at the accident site tried to douse the fire and called the fire brigade. Shop owner Mittal and tea stall owner Mukesh Pandit suffered minor injuries during their attempt to douse the fire. Talking to the media, Mittal said, “We are suspecting foul play as several burglaries have occurred in the shop earlier. The fire doesn’t seem to have been caused due to a short circuit” “My mother has been living in the shop for several years and we are shocked and deeply hurt by her demise,” said Mittal. Social worker and president of Loyabad Muslim Committee, Md Imtiyaz Ahmad said, “The tragic incident has shocked one and all in the locality and we demand a detailed police investigation into the incident. The role of some anti-social elements behind the incident cannot be overruled." Officer in charge of Loyabad police station, Chunnu Murmu said, “We have lodged a case against some unidentified persons and sent the dead body for postmortem. A detailed probe will be carried out to find the reasons behind the fire.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-127
01-03-2021||Jharkhand||BSF Director General unveils new facilities at Meru training camp||Director general of Border Security Force (BSF) Rakesh Asthana on Monday visited the Training Camp and School (TC&S) at Meru to inaugurate the renovated Officers Institute and the newly built battle obstacle assault course (BOAC) complex. Asthana was welcomed with a Guard of Honour at Meru, located 11 kms away from the Hazaribagh district headquarters. Inspector general Ravi Gandhi briefed him about the ongoing training activities and initiatives taken during the last two quarters by the institute. The DG in his address to officers exhorted all to keep formulating innovative techniques so that trainees can stay ahead of the new and emerging challenges. During the entire visit, DIG D K Sharma accompanied him and briefed him on training, infrastructure and other connected matters. The complex consists of 26 different battle field obstacles, ones that soldiers may have to negotiate in battle conditions. He inspected Kendriya Vidyalaya, children traffic park, family welfare centre and also witnessed a demonstration on Artificial wall climbing. Trainers in the comprehensive event exhibited free, fix, knotted, jhumar climbing, seat rappelling, free rappelling, casualty evacuation rappelling and team slithering. He reviewed the training activities of tactical, as well as battalion support weapon group and visited the newly introduced professional clubs. He also experienced the newly added jungle safari put in place to sensitise the Meru BSF family on environment protection, preservation and promotion. In his address, he asserted that the new infrastructures will boost the training quality. He also termed the institution as a designated centre of excellence for counter insurgence, commando and explosive detection and handling and praised the efforts put up by the institution to constantly improve the training material and methodology. The BSF training centre had acquired the status of a centre for excellence from the Centre few years earlier, because of its advance training on counter-insurgency operations, counter-terrorism and bomb disposal. The centre also attracts batches from neighbouring countries seeking advance training for new recruits as well as senior officers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-127
01-03-2021||Jharkhand||Bengal polls a test for Jharkhand parties||The Bengal elections will put to test if the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) and tribal leaders belonging to even other political parties have significant hold outside Jharkhand. “We will announce candidates for the Bengal seats next week,” JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya told The Telegraph on Sunday,  adding there was also nothing final about their party's alliance with other political outfits till then. The JMM had earlier said it would contest in about 30 Assembly seats in Bengal that had considerable tribal population, particularly in Jungle Mahal districts comprising Purulia, Bankura, Jhargram and West Midnapur and in tea gardens in north Bengal. The Jungle Mahal seats will go for polls in the first and second phases on March 27 and April 1 respectively and as such, the party has to finalise the list of its candidates for those seats fast as they will have to file nomination papers latest by March 12 and then concentrate on campaign. Though the political parties rooted in Jharkhand claim to enjoy considerable following among the tribal population in Bengal, the election results did not reflect that in the past. The only exceptions were probably Naren Hansda and his wife Chunibala who had won Binpur seat in Jhargram in the past as candidates of Jharkhand Party (Naren) that Hansda had founded. The upcoming Bengal elections will thus put the JMM to test and prove if the party that enjoyed so much support in Jharkhand also enjoys the same in tribal pockets of neighbouring Bengal. The upcoming elections will also prove how popular the tribal leaders of Jharkhand are in that state. Chief minister Hemant Soren has already addressed a public meeting in Jhargram recently and is also likely to do so elsewhere in that state. Some other leaders of the party are also likely to chip in. The performance of the JMM will show how popular the party leaders are among the Bengal tribals. The BJP has also deputed former chief minister Babulal Marandi who already addressed a few meetings in Bengal. Another former Jharkhand CM and current Union minister Arjun Munda is also expected to campaign for the BJP. “They all have been drafted with the sole purpose of netting tribal votes and the results will show these leaders’ popularity among the tribals of that state,” commented a tribal leader, adding language is a barrier and only those like Arjun Munda who he can speak Bengali can have some advantages.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-127
