02-03-2021||Calcutta||Private hospitals create help-desks to register senior citizens||Private hospitals that started giving Covid jabs to people above 59 and those above 45 with comorbidities on Monday created help-desks so the elderly are spared the hassle of online registration. Others who plan to start vaccinating the general public from Tuesday said they, too, had set up similar help-desks where hospital employees could help senior citizens register for the doses through the Co-Win 2 app. A person can receive a Covid-19 vaccine only after registering through Co-Win 2. On Monday, hundreds of elderly people were unable to register because of glitches in the app or were unable to go through the technicalities. They either queued up at private hospitals or called health-care units seeking assistance. The health ministry has made it mandatory for people to register with the Co-Win 2 for Covid-19 vaccine doses. The chief executive of a private hospital in Calcutta said the rigidity did cause harassment for many. They had apprehended such hassles and so decided to set up help-desks. Alipore resident Shankar Poddar, 68, and his wife Sarita, 61, wanted to take the doses on the first day of the vaccination of the general public. “We are not tech savvy and so asked our son to do the registration for us. He tried but the app was not working,” said Poddar, a businessman. The elderly couple went to Belle Vue Clinic in the morning. “We met hospital officials. They said they would get us registered and administer the doses if slots were available,” Poddar said. The couple waited till afternoon and finally around 4, personnel at the hospital’s help-desk got them registered through the Co-Win 2 app. They got their doses around 4.30pm. At Belle Vue, 50 persons were administered the doses on Monday. Of them, 11 had walked in without prior registration, said officials. “We have nine laptops dedicated to helping people get themselves registered. It is done on a first-come-first-served basis,” said Pradip Tondon, CEO, Belle Vue Clinic. At Medica Superspecialty Hospital, 150 people from the general public were administered Covid shots. Of them, more than 100 went to the hospital for spot registration, said officials. Six employees were posted at the registration help-desk, while three to four others were moving around, helping people fill in the forms. “Because of frequent glitches in the Co-Win 2 portal, it was taking 20 to 25 minutes on an average for a registration,” said an official of Medica. The hospital was flooded with calls from elderly people and their relatives, seeking help to get registered. Medica plans to vaccinate 500 people on Tuesday. Till late on Monday evening, more than 200 got themselves registered through the help-desk, either by visiting the hospital or over the phone. “We are taking down the contact details of those interested to take a vaccine. We are contacting them, asking for details to get them registered. They are receiving a one-time password which they are sharing with us to get registered,” said the official. After the registration, the recipients were told when they should visit the hospital on Tuesday. AMRI Hospitals received at least 300 calls from people throughout Monday, who sought to know whether the hospital could help them get registered. Sixty-nine persons were vaccinated at the hospital's Dhakuria unit and 80 at the Mukundapur unit on Monday, said an official. Around half the recipients opted for spot registration through help-desks. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences is scheduled to start giving doses to the general public on Tuesday. “In order to ensure a seamless online registration on the Co-Win app for senior citizens who are not tech savvy, we have earmarked an exclusive counter on our campus, with a helpline number to assist them in enrolling for the same. This contact number will be disseminated to public vide our website, call centre and all other means of communication…” said R. Venkatesh, director, eastern region, Narayana Health. Chetan Shah, 58 ,a diabetic with three coronary artery stents The businessman had stopped going to his office on Canning Street in March last year. The first time he went to his office since then was on Diwali, “because it was an auspicious occasion”. Since February, he has been going to the office every day but for only three hours. “I need to visit many places for my business. I could not do that for a year,” said Shah. He said he would start visiting more places only after the 14th day from the second dose. “I will still wear a mask and maintain distance from others, but I can visit a few more places,” said the resident of Bhowanipore. Chetan’s wife Mita, 55, a schoolteacher, also got a dose on Monday. She is diabetic and has hypertension. Vandana Mohta, 65 and Gyan Prakash Mohta, 70, residents of Alipore Vandana was trying to log into Co-Win simultaneously from three mobile phones and one laptop from 8.55am on Monday. She did not give in till she could register her and her husband’s names around 9.20am. “I was desperate to get the vaccine on the first day,” she said. Gyan Prakash has an autoimmune disorder and was hospitalised in February 2020. “He did not step out of home for once through the pandemic. I was scared every time I had to step out,” she said. The Mohtas had fever in December. “We lived in constant fear for several days, till the Covid tests returned negative. This vaccine will at least allow me to go out more often for some essential work that I have been delaying. It will also give him some protection”, Vandana said. Shivashish Paul, 62, a chartered accountant Paul had been trying to log into Co-Win intermittently since Sunday light. He could log in and register himself for vaccination at 9.30am on Monday. But Paul, like many others, had first downloaded the Co-Win app from Google Playstore. “The app does not work at all. While I was trying to register through the app, an acquaintance sent me the link of the Co-Win portal. I could finally register myself from here,” said Paul. The Golpark resident said he took the vaccine because he believed that Covid could be defeated only if more and more people got inoculated. “We have to break the chain and taking the vaccine will help break the chain,” he said. Ranjan Kumar Lahiri, 84 and Anjali Lahiri, 76 The couple’s son had successfully registered his parents but did not receive any text message confirming their registration. “There was a message on the screen and a reference ID was created. I did not know if this meant my parents had been registered, but yet I took them to the hospital,” said Utathya Lahiri, a teacher at Calcutta Boys School. “I did my father’s registration first but did not note down the reference ID thinking I would receive an SMS. I did not make the mistake when I registered my mother. I noted down the reference ID,” said Utathya. The result of not having his father referenced was that officials at AMRI Hospitals initially said only his mother would receive a dose. Utathya had to explain to hospital officials the problem and they got his father inoculated, too. “If I had received an SMS, it would have been so much easier. There were problems in the Co-Win portal,” he said. Siddhartha Chakravorty, 67 a schoolteacher There was some error — this was the message that appeared on Chakravorty’s screen as he opted for Aadhaar card as his photo identity. When he tried with his PAN, the Co-Win portal said: “It already exists”. “I tried for 30 minutes from 9.30am but could not register myself for vaccination. There was a glitch in the portal. I tried with Aarogya Setu app but it redirected the traffic to the Co-Win portal,” said Chakravorty. “I was disappointed because I wanted to take the vaccine,” he said. The chemistry teacher said that since he had to go to school nowadays with the ISC exams approaching, he wanted to get vaccinated. “It is a safety measure. If it is available for people of our age, why not take it and stay safe,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-126
02-03-2021||Calcutta||CU BTech seats for domiciled students||An engineering aspirant has to be a domicile of Bengal to enroll in Calcutta University’s BTech programme, CU officials said. Being domicile means one has to reside in Bengal continuously for at least 10 years as on 31.12.2020 or his or her parent has to be a permanent resident of Bengal. A candidate who will take part in the counselling, to be conducted by the JEE board, for admission to CU’s BTech courses has to fulfill either of these conditions. The state joint entrance examination can be written by candidates from across the country. While till last year CU had admitted students to the BTech programme through the JEE board’s  counseling from any part of the country, this year an engineering aspirant has to be domiciled in Bengal. A CU official said the criteria that needed to be fulfilled to become eligible for domicile quota seats would be the same as what had been spelt out in the information bulletin of the JEE board. “Only those candidates will be treated as domicile of West Bengal who are either, a) residing in….; b) whose parent (s)is/ are permanent resident(s)….,” the rules read. The joint entrance examination board has sought to know from the institutes, including Calcutta University, as to whether there would be any change to the admission norms. “The board will be informed about the domicile clause,” said another official. The rationale for the reservation is that students from Bengal were being elbowed out by candidates from other states in engineering courses. “The same rationale was cited while introducing the quota in Jadavpur University in 2019,’’ said an official of CU. In JU, 90 per cent of the BTech seats in the general category were reserved for candidates domiciled in Bengal. “CU can follow this model while keeping certain percentage of seats open for outstation candidates,” said an official. The dean of technology and engineering faculty, Debasish Das, said in a text message: “I don’t have any news regarding the same.” CU had introduced the domicile clause in December while enrolling students through decentralised (independent) counselling for 89 of the 237 BTech seats that remained vacant after centralised counselling by the JEE board ended. A CU official said the university had not set any such condition in the centralised counseling last year although a proposal on domicile was approved at the meeting of the department heads of engineering and technology faculty held in July.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-127
02-03-2021||Calcutta||ICSE, ISC exams to start on May 5||The ICSE (Class X) exams and the ISC (Class XII) theory papers will begin on May 5, the ICSE council announced on Monday evening. The ISC computer science (Paper 2) practical-planning session is scheduled for April 8 and the ISC home science (Paper 2) practical-planning session and Indian music carnatic (Paper 2) practical is scheduled for April 9. The ICSE exam will end on June 7 and the ISC on June 16. Candidates will have to be seated in the examination hall/room five minutes before the time “fixed for the start of the examination in the subject”, but they must reach the examination centre well ahead of time to ensure “staggered movement and smooth entry into the school, to avoid overcrowding,” according to a statement issued by Gerry Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of the CISCE. The council has said candidates must follow the Covid-19 safety protocols strictly.They must “wear a face mask, carry a hand sanitiser, and avoid touching the face with their hands”. The use of gloves is optional.Candidates must carry their stationery/art material and avoid sharing the same with other candidates. They must carry their water bottles and must not share food or water with others. The Covid-19 Safety Instructions to be followed by candidates at examination centres say: “Candidates should follow respiratory etiquette strictly while coughing or sneezing. This involves the practice of covering one's mouth and nose while coughing or sneezing.... Candidates need to inform the Supervising Examiner/Invigilator and follow the protocol laid down by the school in case they are not feeling well.” The candidates have also been instructed to avoid overcrowding at all places on the school campus, including washrooms, laboratories, classrooms, corridors, library, playground etc. The candidates need to strictly follow any additional safety instructions issued by the examination centre. The ISC theory papers will start at 2pm and the ICSE papers at 11am. For both Class X and XII exams, the art papers will begin at 9am. The ICSE exams will begin with English Language-English Paper 1 and ISC theory papers with Business Studies. The council has said that the date and time for practical examinations (for ISC) of physics, chemistry, biology, biotechnology, Indian music (Hindustani), fashion designing, physical education, computer science (examination session) and home science (examination session) will be announced by the schools concerned. The council had earlier announced that the ISC practical exams would have to be scheduled between April 1 and May 31. Several schools said they would try to schedule the practicals before the start of the theory papers. The results of both exams would be published in July, the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) said. The announcement of the schedule has brought relief to thousands of students and parents across the state who had been waiting for the timetable of the board exams, which are usually held in February-March. About 35,000 students will appear in the ICSE and 25,000 in the ISC exams from Bengal. This year the exams have been delayed because of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-127
02-03-2021||Calcutta||Bike skids, rider under truck wheels on Ekbalpore Road||A 40-year-old man riding a motorcycle died after his two-wheeler skidded on Ekbalpore Road and he came under the wheels of a truck late on Sunday night, police said. Bikramjit Kori, 40, a resident of Thakurpukur, Pashchim Barisha, was wearing a helmet at the time of the accident at the Ekbalpore Road-Diamond Harbour Road crossing around Sunday midnight. Kori was taken to SSKM Hospital where he succumbed to his injuries early on Monday, the police said. Officers of the fatal squad of the traffic department said after analysing CCTV footage  that it was apparent that the motorcyclist had lost control and he  fell on the road. A truck that was trailing the two-wheeler ran over the motorcyclist before he could react or recover. The offending vehicle has been seized and the driver has been arrested, the police said. The incident happened a day after a 24-year-old motorcyclist died in an accident on BT Road in front of Rabindra Bharati University after being hit by a lorry. A considerable number of people who died in road accidents in Calcutta last year were motorcyclists and pillion riders. Out of the 201 reported deaths on road in the city last year, 64 people were either riding a two-wheeler or riding pillion in two-wheelers, according to police records.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-127
02-03-2021||Calcutta|| Bus and lorry operators seek 2019 Lok Sabha dues||A forum of bus and lorry operators in Bengal has written to the state’s chief electoral officer telling him that they would not give their vehicles for election duty if their dues from the 2019 Lok Sabha elections are not cleared. In a letter addressed to the chief electoral officer on Monday, the forum demanded full payment of “hiring charges of the vehicles that were engaged in the 2019 Parliamentary Election duty immediately". The letter states that members of the forum were yet to receive 50 per cent of their expenses from Calcutta North and Calcutta South districts each. The two-page letter also states that the dues were 100 per cent in North 24-Parganas, 20 per cent in South 24-Parganas and 10 per cent in all other districts. The outstanding amount, members of the forum said, was close to Rs 5 crore. The letter goes on to demand 100 per cent advance payment of hiring charges for the 2021 elections. “We, the operators and the workers concerned will stay away from the entire election process in protest,” the letter states. Signed by five representatives from different unions of bus, minibus, school bus and lorry operators, the letter demands revision of the daily hiring charges from Rs 1,910 to Rs 2,500 for buses and from Rs 1475 to Rs 2,500 for six-wheel lorries. The expenditure for holding Lok Sabha polls is borne by the Centre. According to guidelines laid down by the Union ministry of law and justice, transporting election materials, including ballot boxes and EVMs, to the polling and counting centres are among several items that are treated as expenditure incurred for the actual conduct of elections. Buses, minibuses, school buses and even lorries are requisitioned to carry these items and the polling personnel. The payment is made after bills that have been submitted by owners are scrutinised by the “transport cell” in each of the election offices in the districts and in Calcutta. Senior officials in the state election commission said the amount for respective states during the Lok Sabha polls is disbursed from the Union home ministry. Bengal chief electoral officer Ariz Aftab was not available for a reaction. Calls went unanswered and so did text messages. “There are around 45,000 buses and close to two lakh lorries in the state,” said Pradip Narayan Bose, of the West Bengal Bus and Minibus Owners Association. “That would be several lakhs of voters.” Bus operators from Calcutta said around 1,900 buses were requisitioned for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-127
02-03-2021||Calcutta||Fun and prayer streamed live||Birla High School, Mukundapur Birla High School, Mukundapur, celebrated Saraswati Puja online. The puja was streamed live on the school’s official Facebook page. Students and staff members, who could not be physically present, took part in the rituals online as well. Bhog was organised for the teaching and non-teaching members in the school. “The students were missing, but live streaming connected them with the celebrations. Parents had appreciated the initiative, and their positive feedback boosted the faculty’s morale. Hopefully, situations would become favourable enough to open the gates of the school for the kids,” said headmistress Hira Prasad. Principal Minnie Sengupta said: “Saraswati Puja without the students was a lonely experience. After all, we missed the gleeful laughter and happy faces.” Teachers and staff members of the Dum Dum branch of Aditya Academy organised Saraswati Puja for the first time. The school and the pandal area were decorated with flowers, bright papers and candles. The guests included Aditya Group managing director Roshni Aditya and education director of Aditya Group of Schools Sabita Saha. Prasad was distributed among all. “The puja was special as it was held for the first time in our Dum Dum branch. A cultural programme, in which the teachers took part, followed the rituals. Everybody had a great time, despite the current situation,” said Saha. Indus Valley World School celebrated Saraswati Puja, keeping the festive spirit intact. Principal Reshma Bhattacharya performed the puja in presence of the school director and some teachers. Although the students were at home, they presented music and dance performances online. It was shared with everyone on the school’s YouTube channel and Facebook page. There were songs and dances dedicated to the goddess of knowledge. Teachers, too, presented a cultural programme where they sang and danced on songs. “We have given undivided attention to both curricular and extracurricular activities and through Saraswati Puja students showcased their talent in the field of performing arts, albeit virtually. This year’s experience was definitely different, because we could not have the students on the school premises. But the spirit was there,” said the principal. B.D.M International celebrated Saraswati Puja on the school premises with teachers. They also organised an online programme, displaying a compilation of videos of student performances. The puja rituals in the school were streamed live on Facebook, and the students even offered pushpanjali, virtually. The online programme commenced with a rendition of the Saraswati Vandana by the school choir, followed by a compilation of videos of student performances and classroom activities. The secondary and senior secondary students presented song and dance performances for the day. “As change is inevitable, and evolution mandatory, we sought blessings from the goddess of knowledge, virtually this year, to give us profound wisdom and the power of acceptance. I have missed my dear students a lot, however, I hope to celebrate Saraswati Puja with them next year. I wish them and their families a healthy year ahead,” said principal Vijaya Chaudhuri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-127
02-03-2021||Calcutta||Humble kits for 500 widows by Rotary Club of Calcutta||A 65-year-old woman who lost both her sons and is raising her grandchildren came to receive a kit of basic necessities of food, clothing and bed linen. A 57-year-old woman who lives alone and earns a living by making paper packets was among the many in the queue. Widows above the age of 55 from financially deprived families who are abandoned or striving hard to make a living for their families but have nobody to turn to received a mosquito net, bedsheet, sari, food packets and hygiene kit among other things. Over 500 women received the kit and many of them broke down while talking about their plight, in the programme on Sunday. Raising funds to give out kits to so many women was a challenge this year. “It has been a hard year for many and for many of these mothers their children have no jobs and it was essential that we reach out. The kind of heartfelt response we received from many of them was unprecedented,” said Shubadip Roy, chairman of the Maa (Mother’s Apt Appreciation) project this year. The initiative started in 2016 with 200 women. The numbers kept swelling each year because the need was so acute and reached 1,000 in 2019, said Roy, a part of Rotary Club of Calcutta North East District 3291. The number was reduced to 500 this year  because of the pandemic and the organisers held it at the grounds of Simla Byayam Samity to maintain distancing. Suchitra Ghosh, mother of Bandhan Bank managing director and CEO Chandra Shekhar Ghosh, was present on Sunday to hand over the kits. The struggle to raise money or organise a programme was worth the effort when 85-year-old woman Sokhi Naskar who is bedridden was wheeled in a cycle van. The women got the kit against a coupon that was issued to them. The lockdown and the pandemic has hit many of these women hard. Sabita Das, 57, whose husband worked in a shop lost her husband to a kidney ailment about a year back. Her daughters are married and Das took to making paper packets (thongas) and would stitch a sari fall to earn a living. She would get Rs 40 for 220 thongs. “The lockdown turned everything upside down,” said Das in between tears. But Das has not given up. Neither has many women like her. The kit is worth Rs 2,500 but for many of them who are struggling to make ends meet it is much more. “My daughter does a small job and we somehow manage. For us buying a mosquito net or a bedsheet is not easy. We have to save for months to be able to do that," said K Pal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-127
02-03-2021||Calcutta||One arrested for helping cocaine case accused flee||A man named Suraj Shah, who lives close to BJP leader Rakesh Singh’s Orphangunge house, has been arrested in the cocaine case for allegedly helping an associate of Singh to flee the spot where Pamela Goswami’s car was parked the day she was arrested. A senior police officer said on Monday CCTV footage from the spot where BJP youth leader Goswami was arrested showed Shah waiting with a scooter near the leader’s car on NR Avenue, in New Alipore, minutes before the police had reached the spot. Cocaine was allegedly seized from the car. “Rakesh Singh’s associate Amrit Singh was seen coming out of the car and fleeing on a scooter parked a few yards away,” the officer said. Another officer said Amrit Singh had vomited on the scooter while fleeing. The two-wheeler allegedly hit a traffic cop on Diamond Harbour Road. Shah and Amrit Singh went to Rakesh Singh’s house, from where Amrit allegedly fled. He was at large till Monday. Officers said that a day before Goswami was arrested, she, her friend Prabir Kumar Dey and Amrit Singh had met in Amrit Singh’s office in Minto Park and then gone to Rakesh Singh’s house in Orphangunge. Shah — along with Rakesh Singh and Jitender Singh, who had earlier been arrested in the case - was produced in the Alipore narcotic drugs psychotropic substances act court on Monday. Shah has been remanded in police custody till March 5. The police custody of both Rakesh Singh and Jitender Singh was extended till March 5. The prosecution lawyer mentioned before the court about the alleged involvement of Shah and how he had allegedly helped Amrit Singh escape the spot. The prosecution also mentioned that the police wanted to examine all the accused in the case face to face to corroborate their versions. Rakesh Singh told media persons on his way to the court on Monday that he had been framed by a Trinamul leader and a senior police officer in Calcutta. He named the two and also alleged that Shah, who worked at his house, had been arrested so Singh could be framed in the cocaine case. Lawyers representing Rakesh Singh submitted a prayer for his bail, which was rejected. One of the lawyers, Kailash Tamoli, alleged that the police were manipulating facts as there was no mention about the scooter or anyone fleeing the spot in the FIR lodged with New Alipore police station. “When New Alipore police station started the case, they did not mention anything about the scooter or Amrit Singh. But now that another wing of the police are investigating, they have come up with new facts which found no mention in the original FIR,” Tamoli alleged. Investigators said the FIR was registered based on preliminary facts, and findings of subsequent investigations were mentioned in the case diary, which was maintained by the investigating officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-127
02-03-2021||Business||Sensex spurts 447 pts to reclaim 50,000-level||The BSE Sensex zoomed 447 points to settle above the psychological 50,000-mark on Tuesday, buoyed by hectic buying in auto, banking and IT counters amid positive domestic and global cues. The 30-share index swung nearly 633 points during the session, before ending at 50,296.89, showing a rise of 447.05 points or 0.90 per cent. Likewise, the NSE Nifty climbed 157.55 points or 1.07 per cent to settle at 14,919.10. On the Sensex chart, M&M, NTPC, Bajaj Auto, Tech Mahindra, TCS and Maruti emerged as top gainers. On the other hand, ONGC, HDFC, Dr Reddy's, PowerGrid and SBI suffered losses. Of the Sensex constituents, 25 shares ended with gains. Analysts said investor sentiment remained upbeat due to encouraging GDP numbers for the third quarter as well as returning of calmness in global bond markets after the last week's turmoil. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses closed with significant gains for the second straight session after halt in sell-offs in global bond markets calmed investor sentiments. Meanwhile, Brent Futures rose 0.71 per cent to trade at 63.76 per barrel. On the forex market front, the rupee surged by 18 paise to close at 73.37 against the US dollar on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-121
02-03-2021||Business||Sensex tops 50,000-level in opening trade||The BSE gauge Sensex rose over 190 points to trade above the 50,000-mark in the opening session on Tuesday on account of broad-based buying by participants amid positive domestic and global cues. Analysts said investor sentiment remained upbeat due to encouraging GDP numbers for the third quarter as well as return of calmness in global bond markets after last week's turmoil. The 30-share BSE index was trading higher by 191.45 points or 0.38 per cent at 50,041.21 in opening deals. The 50-share NSE Nifty advanced 65.10 points or 0.44 per cent to 14,826.65 in early trade. On the Sensex chart, 26 shares were trading with gains. On Monday, the Sensex had risen by 749.85 points or 1.53 per cent; and the Nifty had gained 232.40 points or 1.60 per cent. Elsewhere in Asia on Tuesday, bourses extended their strong rally for the second straight session after halt in sell-offs in global bond markets calmed investor sentiments. Foreign investors purchased equities worth Rs 125.15 crore on a net basis in Indian capital markets on Monday, exchange data showed. Meanwhile, global crude oil benchmark Brent Futures price eased by 0.65 per cent to trade at 62.90 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-121
02-03-2021||Business||Cooking gas prices increase by Rs 25 per cylinder, fourth hike in a month’s time||Cooking gas prices were on Monday hiked by Rs 25 per cylinder across all categories, including subsidised fuel — the fourth increase in rates in a month's time. The new price in Calcutta is Rs 845.50 per cylinder, a hike of 45 per cent in just 10 months since May. And given the fact that crude price remains elevated with the possibility that Opec+ summit later this week deciding on production cuts which will act as a ballast to prices, LPG prices will shoot above Rs 1,000 a cylinder — bang in the middle of the state elections given the current trend lines of Rs 100 a month hike. Unless of course, the government steps in and asks the oil refiners to stop passing on the hike or hold them until after the elections. However, oil ministry sources indicated that no such directive has gone out as yet. Gas prices have been raised four times in the past one month, including Monday's hike. The first hike was on February 4 by Rs 25, followed by an increase of Rs 50 on February 15 and then another Rs 25-hike on February 25. The prices have been constantly increasing since December and cumulatively there has been a hike of Rs 175 per cylinder. Union Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan has suggested the prices have increased “due to intense cold” and a recent ice storm in the US had generated the spike in the price of diesel and petrol. But the Opposition remains unconvinced. Jet fuel prices on Monday were hiked by a steep 6.5 per cent on the back of a rally in international oil prices. Meanwhile, aviation turbine fuel or ATF price was hiked Rs 3,663 per kilolitre, or 6.5 per cent, to Rs 59,400.91 per kl in the national capital. Petrol sales Indian state refiners’ daily petrol sales in February rose by 1.5 per cent from a year earlier, its slowest pace of growth in six months, preliminary industry data showed, as record-high retail prices hit consumption. State refiners’ daily diesel sales, which are related closely to economic growth and account for about 40 per cent of overall refined fuel sales in India, fell 5.3 per cent in February, the largest decline in three months, the data showed. Petrol and diesel prices have risen to record highs, mirroring global markets. Taxes account for about 61 per cent of petrol prices and about 56 per cent of diesel prices. State fuel retailers sold 2.22 million tonnes of petrol and 5.81 million tonnes of diesel last month, the data provided by an industry source showed. State companies Indian Oil Corp, Hindustan Petroleum Corp and Bharat Petroleum own about 90 per cent of India’s retail fuel outlets. Rising diesel and petrol prices could push up inflation, making it harder for the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to continue its accommodative monetary policy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-121
02-03-2021||Business||Sensex surges 750 points as investors cheer positive return of domestic economy ||Positive news ranging from the domestic economy returning to growth and better auto sales to the cooling down of US bond yields saw the benchmark Sensex surging nearly 750 points and the Nifty gaining over 232 points on Monday. The gains came on a day the country began its next phase of vaccination even as encouraging data came in on the GST front. Experts are of the view that while equity prices could witness an upward momentum, factors like rising number of Covid-19 cases could affect the rally. In Monday’s trading, the 30-share index opened in the green at 49747.71 and touched an intra-day high of 50058.42. Subsequently, it ended at 49849.84, showing a rise of 749.85 points or 1.53 per cent. Similarly, the Nifty ended with a gain of 232.40 points or 1.60 per cent at 14,761.55. Another glitch The NSE and BSE on Monday said all their operations are functioning in a normal manner after HDFC Securities flagged that confirmations were not received for orders placed in the NSE cash segment due to a “technical glitch”. After mentioning about the technical glitch in a tweet at 10.01am, HDFC Securities, at around 11.53am, released a statement saying the issue "got resolved at 9.50 am" and that investigation is going on to find out the root cause.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-122
02-03-2021||Business||Government receives Rs 77,146 cr bids on Day 1 of spectrum auction||The Centre earned Rs 77,146 crore on the first day of the spectrum auction on Monday from sales in five of the seven bands on offer against the floor price of Rs 45,000 crore. As much as 60 per cent of the 2250Mhz spectrum in the 800Mhz, 900Mhz, 1800Mhz, 2100Mhz and 2,300MHz bands got sold on the first day of the auction — the first since 2016. But there were no takers for the coveted 700Mhz band and the 2500Mhz band, which explains why the collections are still far off from expected revenues of Rs 3.92 lakh crore from the sales. “The 700 MHz and 2500 Mhz saw no bids today (Tuesday). The auction will resume tomorrow morning... leaving aside the 700Mhz and 2500 MHz bands, 60 per cent of the spectrum in the other five bands put on sale was sold,” telecom minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said. Unlike in 2016 where there were seven bidders, there are only three now — Jio, Airtel and Vodafone Idea. On Monday, 65 per cent of the 800Mhz spectrum were sold. In 900Mhz, bids were received for 38 per cent of spectrum. The biggest sale took place in 2300Mhz, where 89 per cent of the spectrum was sold. In the 1800Mhz band, 41 per cent of the spectrum was sold, but just 9 per cent of the airwaves in 2100Mhz band found buyers. About one-third of the spectrum being auctioned this time is in the 700 Mhz band, which was completely unsold during the 2016 auctions. Analysts said operators were unlikely to diversify into a new spectrum band that would require incremental investment in equipment on their part , when other sub-GHz bands are available at lower prices. The current auction does not include frequencies in 3,300-3,600 MHz bands that were identified for 5G services, which will happen later. “We should be coming with an eco-system for 5G trials very soon. We will be sharing more details at an appropriate time for 5G auctions,” Prasad said. Telecom secretary Anshul Prakash said the Union government was expecting revenues of about Rs 7,000 crore this fiscal and around Rs 12,000-13,000 crore in the next fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-122
02-03-2021||Business||GST collection goes up 7 per cent in February||The Goods and Services Tax collection in February rose 7 per cent to Rs 1.13 lakh crore, though it was lower than the record collections of last month, data showed. The collection in the previous month was Rs 1.19 lakh crore. Collections crossed Rs 1 lakh crore for the fifth month in a row in February, which the finance ministry said was an indication of economic recovery. The gross GST revenue collected in February 2021 is Rs 1,13,143 crore, of which CGST is Rs 21,092 crore, SGST is Rs 27,273 crore, IGST is Rs 55,253 crore (including Rs 24,382 crore collected on import of goods) and cess is Rs 9,525 crore (including Rs 660 crore collected on import of goods). “In line with the trend of recovery in the GST revenues over past five months, the revenues for the month of February 2021 are 7 per cent higher than the GST revenues in the same month last year. “During the month, revenues from import of goods were 15 per cent higher and the revenues from the domestic transaction (including import of services) were 5 per cent higher than the revenues from these sources during the same month last year,” the ministry said in a statement. M.S. Mani, senior director, Deloitte India, said: “In addition to the stabilisation of economic activities, the continuing trend of high GST collections for the past few months is also on account of the data analytics approach adopted by the authorities, which has led to significant detection of evasion and incorrect ITC (input tax credit) availment. With the gradual opening up of the services sectors, economic activity is expected to pick up.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-122
02-03-2021||Business||Birla Corporation’s board of directors approve Arvind Pathak as CEO||Birla Corporation on Monday announced a change in its management with the board of directors of the company approving the appointment of Arvind Pathak as the managing director and CEO for a period of three years effective from March 31, 2021. The mantle of CEO passes from current wholetime director and CEO Pracheta Majumdar, a veteran in the company. He has been re-designated as wholetime director and chief management adviser of the company effective from March 31, 2021. In a statement to the bourses, the company said that Pathak has experience of 36 years in the cement industry having held the CEO or equivalent positions for over 14 years in various large organisations which include ACC, DCP, Adani and Reliance ADAG group. He holds a degree in electrical engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology (Banaras Hindu University), Varanasi and a postgraduate degree in industrial engineering and management. “The aforesaid appointment is subject to approval of the shareholders at the next general meeting of the company,” Birla Corporation said in a statement to the bourses. The scrips of the company at Rs 866.40 were up 2 per cent over the previous close on the BSE. The rejig in the board comes amid the ongoing legal tussle over the control of the company and the MP Birla group to which it belongs. The company, however, has seen a strong third quarter posting an 82 per cent jump in net profit on the back of growth in sales volume, aggressive cost rationalisation and high sale of premium products. A focus for the new CEO would be on navigating the expansion projects of the cement major which is aiming to achieve a capacity of 25 million tonnes by 2025. This includes the construction of the Company’s 3.9 mt cement plant at Mukutban in Maharashtra which is expected to be commissioned in the third quarter of next fiscal year. The company is also planning to scale up incremental clinker capacity at Chanderia in Rajasthan in the first quarter of the next fiscal year. Birla Corporation and its subsidiary, RCCPL Private Limited (the erstwhile Reliance Cement Company Private Limited), have 10 cement plants spread across the country, with an annual installed capacity of 15.5 million tons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-122
02-03-2021||Business||Directors must pass dual test: Sebi||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) is proposing to give a greater say to minority shareholders in the appointment, re-appointment and in the removal of independent directors. In a consultation paper, the market regulator tightened the norms with regard to the resignation of the independent directors on the grounds of personal reasons or other commitments by suggesting a cooling off period of one year before the directors can join another board. Similar cooling off period has been proposed if the directors are elevated to a position such as   a whole-time director in the same company. It also mooted the grant of long-vesting ESOPs to the independent directors in lieu of cash-based commissions. The appointment and the re-appointment of the independent directors shall be subject to dual approval — the approval of the shareholders and the approval by “majority of the minority” (simple majority) shareholders. Minority shareholders mean shareholders, other than the promoter and promoter group. If either of the approval thresholds are not met, the person would have failed to get appointed or re-appointed. In such a case, the listed entity may either propose a new candidate or propose the same person for a second vote of all shareholders,without a separate requirement of approval by “majority of the minority”, after a cooling-off period of 90 days but within a period of 120 days. The removal of the directors will also be subject to the dual approval process. Further, if a casual vacancy arises because of resignation, removal or the death of an independent director, the approval of shareholders should be taken within a time period of three months. Sebi said that considering the importance of the audit committee with regard to related party transactions and financial matters, it should comprise two-third independent directors and one-third non-executive directors who are not related to the promoter, including nominee directors, if any. “While some these suggestions may increase the compliance burden, Sebi’s move will help broad-base corporate governance norms in Indian entities. These moves have the capacity to increase the independent oversight of Indian listed entities,” Arka Mookerjee, partner, J. Sagar Associates, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-122
02-03-2021||Business||Amit Mitra claims 23 lakh jobs created in Bengal during April-January||The Trinamul Congress has countered BJP’s claim that Bengal suffers from a lack of industrialisation and joblessness by touting numbers thrown up from bank lending to small- and medium-scale industries. Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra claimed that 23 lakh jobs have been created during April-January of this year going by the matrix followed by the BJP government at the Centre. BJP leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah, have been relentless in their attack on the TMC government led by Mamata Banerjee seeking to make a perceived lack of opportunity for educated youth of the state as a poll plank in the upcoming Assembly elections. PM Modi especially chose the closed Dunlop tyre factory at Sahagunj, Hooghly, as the venue for his last public rally to raise the issue of industrialisation under the decade-long Mamata regime. BJP alleged the young generation in Bengal is being forced to leave the state because of lack of opportunity. Countering the claim, Mitra tweeted this morning: “Mo-Shah’s negative propaganda on investment in Bengal BUSTED by 100 Bankers in Meet. Banks in Bengal lent Rs 63,000 crore for investment to Medium - Small industry, April 2020 - January 21, with the state government’s support. Result: 23 lakh new jobs as per GoI capital/labour ratio. Mo-Shah bolun (please answer Mo-Shah)?” Later in the evening, Mitra explained that he used a conservative yardstick to measure new job creation in the state. “The Centre now takes a multiple of 44 new jobs for every crore of investment compared with 36 it used to in the past. I have taken the latter. Going by the matrix used by Modi’s government, Bengal has created this many jobs, even though I think the number may be even higher.” Bengal ranks second among states to have the highest number of micro, small and medium enterprises, cornering 14 per cent share, just behind Uttar Pradesh. The state had 88.67 lakh MSMEs as on March 31, 2020 according to the Centre. Mitra said bank lending facilitated by state level banking committee stood at Rs 63,000 crore as on January 31. He had set a target of Rs 90,000 crore lending for the full year before Covid happened. “I am still hopeful. The numbers will surprise us on the upside,” he said. In a meeting with industry in February, Mitra had said the lending may touch Rs 70,000 crore-Rs 75,000 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-122
02-03-2021||Business||Car sales look up in February||Leading car makers Maruti Suzuki, Hyundai and Tata Motors reported robust sales growth in the domestic market in February as the demand for personal mobility amid Covid-19 pandemic continues to drive the market. Maruti Suzuki India said its domestic sales increased 11.8 per cent to 1,52,983 units last month from 1,36,849 units in February 2020. The company’s sales during the month were driven by compact and utility vehicle segments. Last month, the sales of  compact segment models, including Swift, Celerio, Ignis, Baleno and Dzire, rose 15.3 per cent to 80,517 units, from 69,828 cars in February last year. Similarly, utility vehicle dispatches to dealers, including Vitara Brezza, S-Cross and Ertiga, rose 18.9 per cent to 26,884 units compared with 22,604 units a year ago. Hyundai reported a 29 per cent increase in its domestic sales at 51,600 units against 40,010 units in February 2020. Tata Motors saw its passenger vehicle sales surging over two-folds to 27,225 units in the domestic market last month. Similarly, M&M reported a 41 per cent increase in its passenger vehicle dispatches to dealers last month. Toyota Kirlosker posted a 36 per cent increase in domestic sales at 14,075 units in February. The company had clocked domestic sales of 10,352 units a year ago. Honda Cars India said its domestic wholesales in February rose by 28.3 per cent to 9,324 units.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-122
02-03-2021||Business||IDBI Bank to set off accumulated losses worth Rs 45,586 crore||LIC-controlled IDBI Bank will set off its accumulated losses worth Rs 45,586 crore against the balance in the securities premium account, according to the bank’s draft scheme. Its accumulated losses (or debit balance of profit or loss account) at the end of March 31, 2020, stood at Rs 45,586 crore. And, they were at Rs 44,739 crore as on December 31, 2020. The accumulated losses as on March 31, 2021, shall be ascertained after the audited financial statements are approved by the bank’s board, said the lender, under the draft scheme addressed to its shareholders for setting off the accumulated losses. The bank’s authorised share capital is Rs 25,000 crore. The issued, subscribed and paid-up share capital is worth Rs 10,752.40 crore and the security premium is of Rs 50,732.27 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-122
02-03-2021||Business||State Bank of India reduces interest rates on home loans||The State Bank of India has reduced its interest rates on home loans by up to 10 basis points, with loans now starting from 6.70 per cent. The new rates are based on the loan amount and the credit score of the borrower and are available till March 31, the country’s largest lender said in a statement on Monday. SBI said the rates will start from 6.70 per cent for loans up to Rs 75 lakh and 6.75 per cent for loans in the range of Rs 75 lakh to Rs 5 crore. The bank is also offering a 100 per cent waiver on its processing fees. According to Saloni Narayan, deputy managing director (retail business), SBI, the reduced rates are one of the best in the segment. The lender expects a good response, this being the last month of the year. Narayan, however, does not expect any rise in bad loans. Customers can also apply for the loans using SBI's Yono app to get an additional interest concession of five basis points. SBI is also offering a special five basis points concession to woman borrowers on the eve of International Women's Day. “We are mindful of whatever stresses are there and we are reaching out to the customers... We are taking several steps within and outside the bank and also giving options to borrowers on how they can repay the loans. We are monitoring closely and, as of now, I don’t see much of a challenge,” a PTI report quoting Narayan said. SBI had recently said the size of its real estate and housing business unit (REHBU) has touched Rs 5 lakh crore. The bank is looking to double this number to Rs 10 lakh crore over the next five years. SBI had entered the home loan segment in 2004. The bank says it now has a market share of 34 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-122
02-03-2021||India||Haryana governor gives assent to Bill providing 75 per cent jobs to locals||Haryana Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya has given assent to the Bill providing 75 per cent reservation in the private sector to job seekers from the state, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said here on Tuesday. The Haryana Assembly had late last year passed the Bill, a key poll promise made by the ruling alliance partner Jannayak Janta Party. "The Haryana Governor today gave his assent to the Bill entailing 75 per cent reservation in the private sector to job seekers from the state. The government will notify it soon," the CM told reporters at a press conference here. The Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2020 provides quota for local people in private sector jobs that offer a salary of less than Rs 50,000 a month. The quota will initially apply for 10 years, according to the Bill. Apart from tackling unemployment among local people, the state government said the law will discourage the influx of migrants seeking low-paid jobs, which has a significant impact on local infrastructure and leads to the proliferation of slums . The Bill covers private companies, societies, trusts and partnership firms in the state. It provides for training to eligible local candidates when qualified people are not available. It defines local candidates as those domiciled in the state. For domicile status, a person should be born in Haryana or have lived there for at least 15 years. Giving 75 per cent reservation in private sector jobs was a key poll promise by Dushyant Chautala's JJP, which is the BJP's coalition partner in the state. Chautala described the assent given by the Governor as "happiest moment for the youth of Haryana." "The rules on this new law will be framed soon and published," he said at Faridabad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-299
02-03-2021||India||Stop state-sponsored cross-border terrorism, India tells Pakistan||India on Tuesday hit out at Pakistan, a country in dire economic situation but provided pensions to dreaded and listed terrorists out of state funds, and asked Islamabad to stop state-sponsored cross-border terrorism. Using its Right of Reply at the ongoing 46th Session of the Human Rights Council in response to a statement by Pakistan's representative, India said Pakistan should also end institutionalised violation of human rights of its minority and other communities in the country. India also slammed Pakistan for deliberately misusing the Council for its malicious propaganda against the country. "Pakistan, a country in dire economic situation, will be well advised to stop wasting time of the Council and its mechanisms, stop state-sponsored cross-border terrorism and end institutionalised violation of human rights of its minority and other communities," said Pawankumar Badhe, First Secretary of India's Permanent Mission in Geneva. "The members of this Council are well aware that Pakistan has provided pensions to dreaded and listed terrorists out of State funds and has the dubious distinction of hosting the largest number of terrorists prescribed by the United Nations," Badhe said. The Indian diplomat recalled that Pakistani leaders have admitted the fact that "it has become a factory for producing terrorists." "Pakistan has ignored that terrorism is the worst form of human rights abuse and the supporters of terrorism are the worst abusers of human rights, the Indian diplomat said. Badhe said the Council should ask Pakistan why the size of its minority communities such as Christians, Hindus and Sikhs has drastically shrunk since independence and why they and other communities such as Ahmadiyyas, Shias, Pashtuns, Sindhis and Baloch, have been subjected to draconian blasphemy laws, systemic persecution, blatant abuses and forced conversions. He said that holy and ancient sites of religious minorities in Pakistan have been attacked and vandalised daily. "Enforced disappearances, extrajudicial killings and arbitrary detentions of those who try to speak against the establishment are rampant in Pakistan and have been carried out by the State's security agencies with impunity," the diplomat said. India also rejected the Organisation of Islamic Conference's statement on Jammu and Kashmir, saying the bloc has no locus standi to comment on such matters. "We reject the reference to the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir in the statement of the OIC. It has no locus standi to comment on matters related to Jammu and Kashmir, which is an integral and inalienable part of India," the Indian diplomat said. The Jeddah-headquartered 57-nation bloc, which is the second-largest intergovernmental body after the UN, has usually been supportive of Pakistan and often sided with Islamabad on the Kashmir issue. "It is regrettable that OIC continues to allow itself to be exploited by Pakistan to indulge in anti-India propaganda, Badhe added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-299
02-03-2021||India||Molestation accused, out on bail, shoots victim’s father dead in Hathras||A 50-year-old man was allegedly shot dead in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras district by an accused out on bail in a molestation case lodged in 2018 by the victim's daughter, police said on Tuesday. "The incident took place in Nozarpur village of Sasani area in Hathras on Monday afternoon when the daughters of Ambrish Sharma (50) had gone to a temple, where the wife and aunt of accused Gaurav Sharma were present. The women had heated arguments with each other after which both Gaurav and Ambrish also reached there," Hathras Superintendent of Police Vineet Jaiswal said. Both Gaurav and Ambrish also had a verbal duel after which the former called some other members of his family and shot Ambrish in a fit of rage, the SP said. Ambrish was rushed to the hospital where he was declared brought dead, the SP added. The victim had lodged a case of molestation of his daughter against Gaurav two and a half years ago and had also gone to jail. Later, Gaurav came out on bail after one month and both of them had animosity since then, the SP added. He said an FIR has been registered in this matter against Gaurav Sharma, Lalit Sharma, Rahitash Sharma, Nikhil Sharma and two others. Of them, Lalit has been arrested. The FIR was lodged under various sections of the Indian Penal Code including 302 (murder) based on a complaint of the victim's daughter. In the FIR, it was alleged that the complainant was there in her potato field with her father Ambrish when Gaurav came in a white car with his accomplice and asked Ambrish to take back the case lodged against him while also urging him to get the matter settled with his daughter. "Before my father could say anything, he opened fire on him. We rushed him to the hospital, where he died," the girl said in the FIR. Taking note of the incident, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has ordered strict action to be taken against the accused and directed officials to invoke provisions of the stringent National Security Act (NSA) against the accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-300
02-03-2021||India||Health minister, wife get first dose of Covaxin||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and his wife took the first dose of indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin at the Delhi Heart and Lung Institute on Tuesday. India opened up vaccination for those over 60 years and within the age bracket of 45 to 59 years with specified comorbidities from March 1. The minister's wife Nutan Goel first took the jab after which Vardhan received the vaccine shot at the Delhi Heart and Lung Institute, which is a private facility. They paid Rs 250 each for the vaccine jab. Completing the observation period of half-and-hour after taking the first dose of the vaccine, Vardhan addressed the media and appealed to eligible people to get vaccinated. "Today, my wife and I took the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine at Delhi Heart and Lung Hospital around half-and-hour ago. The observation time of half-and-hour is completed. Hospital authorities have informed me that I and my wife have been given Covaxin. In the last half-and-hour, I and my wife did not face any kind of difficulty," he told reporters. "On this occasion, I would like to urge all the citizens of this country whose age is above 60 or if they are in the age bracket of 45-59 having specified co-morbidities to take the vaccine," he said. Stating that the Indian government has made the vaccine available for its citizens in thousands of private as well as government hospitals, Vardhan said that in the fight against Covid-19, this vaccine will act as a "sanjeevani" for the people. "I and my wife paid Rs 250 each for our doses. I would like to appeal to people that those who can afford vaccines in our country can visit the nearest hospital and get the dose." He asked the citizens to follow Covid-19-appropriate behaviour and stressed the need for observing vaccine-appropriate behaviour as well. "I urge the citizens of this nation to get the first dose of vaccine and after 28 days of it, get the second dose of vaccine. If someone develops any kind of side effects or face difficulties, do not fear and inform your doctor," he said. He told people not to have any doubts about the vaccine underlining no death has occurred till now due to the anti-coronavirus vaccination in the country. Vardhan said that if any death occurs a few days after receiving the jab, it cannot be linked to vaccination because each such death is being scientifically probed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-300
02-03-2021||India||Toolkit: Court grants one week to Delhi police to file reply to Nikita Jacob||A court here on Tuesday granted a week's time to the Delhi Police to file reply to the anticipatory bail plea of Nikita Jacob, a co-accused along with Disha Ravi in connection with allegedly being involved in sharing a "toolkit" on social media related to the farmers' protest. Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana allowed the police plea to grant it time till March 9 after the public prosecutor said the agency needed time to file a detailed reply to Jacob's plea. The court is scheduled to hear the anticipatory bail plea of another co-accused, Shantanu Muluk, on March 9. During the brief hearing held through video conferencing, senior advocate Rebecca John, appearing for Jacob, said she wanted to argue on her plea as a stand alone case and not with Muluk's. The court said she could argue on March 9. The court also directed the Delhi Police to hand over a copy of its reply to Jacob's bail plea to her counsel. Jacob had got transit anticipatory bail from Bombay High Court on February 17 for three weeks, so that the accused could approach the court concerned in Delhi, where the case is lodged. The court on February 25 granted protection from arrest to Muluk till March 9. Muluk was granted transit anticipatory bail from the Aurangabad bench on February 16 for 10 days. He approached Delhi court on February 23. Muluk, Ravi and Jacob were booked for alleged sedition and other charges. Ravi was arrested by a Cyber Cell team of the Delhi Police from Bengaluru and brought to Delhi. She was granted bail by the Delhi court on February 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-300
02-03-2021||India||India logs over 12,000 fresh Covid cases, 91 casualties in a day||India's Covid-19 cases rose to 1,11,24,527 with 12,286 new infections being reported in a day, while the recoveries have surged to 1,07,98,921, according to data updated by the Union Health Ministry on Tuesday. The death toll increased to 1,57,248 with 91 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,07,98,921 which translates into a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.07 per cent, while the case fatality rate has dropped 1.41 per cent. The active caseload was recorded at 1,68,358 which accounts for 1.51 per cent of the total infections, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5; and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11; 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20; and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 21,76,18,057 samples have been tested up to March 1, of which 7,59,283 were done on Monday. The 91 new fatalities include 30 from Maharashtra, 18 from Punjab and 13 from Kerala. A total of 1,57,248 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 52,184 from Maharashtra, followed by 12,501 from Tamil Nadu, 12,336 from Karnataka, 10,911 from Delhi, 10,268 from West Bengal, 8,727 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,169 from Andhra Pradesh. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-300
02-03-2021||India||Naveen Patnaik takes vaccine shot||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday received the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine. He was administered the vaccine at the Assembly dispensary. Naveen appealed to all people to take the vaccine and make Odisha Covid-free. “Happy to share that I took my first dose of Covid-19 vaccine today. Grateful to our scientists, health workers for their race against time to deliver the  vaccines to people. Appeal to all eligible people to come forward and get vaccinated for a Covid-free Odisha.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-300
02-03-2021||India||Puri Temple development resolution under 'Shreemandira Parikrama plan'||The Odisha Legislative Assembly on Saturday passed an unanimous resolution for the development of the 12th Century Shree Jagannath Temple under the “Shreemandira Parikrama plan” (Periphery development of Shree Jagannath Temple). “The greatest identity of the Odias is Shree Jagannath himself and Odisha’s history, culture, tradition and all our beliefs have evolved and grown around Shree Jagannath,” chief minister Naveen Patnaik said while moving the resolution in the virtual mode in the Assembly. However, BJP’s Bhubaneswar MP Aparajita Sarangi said all the developmental work to be undertaken around the Shree Jagannath temple should be done as per the  approval of the Archeological Survey of India (ASI) and National Monument Authority (NMA). Stressing the need to keep Shreemandira (Shree Jagannath Temple), the centre of the state’s spiritual heritage and the priceless treasure for future descendants, Naveen said: “We need to develop Shreemandira Parikrama plan through a collective effort.” The resolution which got the nod of the legislature spoke about urging all Odias to take a vow to complete the Shreemandira Parikrama plan with dedication at the earliest, to provide a chance to all Odias and devotees of Lord Jagannath who want to contribute to the sacred act to do it, and to extend gratitude to people of Puri town who have sacrificed for the Shreemandira Parikrama plan. The Shreemandira Parikrama plan will be developed within 75metre radius of the shrine. All the old structures around the shrine have already been demolished and the government has taken over possession of the private land within this area. Naveen said: “Basing on the recommendation of the Justice BP Das commission, the Shreemandira security corridor plan has been developed under Shreemandira Parikrama Yojana. The commission’s recommendation speaks about — safety of the shrine, safety and security of millions of devotees coming to the temple for darshan of the deities and creating a spiritual atmosphere for devotees.” Under the Shreemandira Parikrama plan, the Odisha government will invest around Rs 800 crore for beautification of the Puri town, Shree Jagannath temple and its premises. The work is scheduled to begin from June 1, sources said. On the other hand, BJP’s Bhubaneswar MP Aparajita Sarangi questioned the Odisha government’s action of demolishing the age-old mutts like Emmar Mutt, Uttara Parswa Mutt, Raghunandan Library and other important monuments. Citing the Ancient Monuments and Archeological Sites and Remains Act, 1958, Sarangi said no new work can be undertaken in the prohibited areas within 100 metres of radius of the Shreemandira. “But in Puri various heritage monuments were demolished in the name of development. We need to know whether permission of NMA and ASI was taken before demolishing the mutts and whether detailed mapping was done before razing the mutts and an inventory of their assets was  made,” she said. Demanding clarification from the state on the issue, Sarangi said: “The culture and heritage of the people should be protected.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-300
02-03-2021||India||Chief Justice of India asks whether rape accused would marry the alleged victim||Chief Justice of India  S.A. Bobde on Monday asked Mohit Subhash Chavan, a rape accused: “Will you marry her?” Chavan’s counsel said he would seek instructions from the petitioner and sought an interlude. “You should have thought before seducing and raping the young girl. You knew you are a government servant…. We are not forcing you to marry. Let us know if you will. Otherwise, you will say we are forcing you to marry her,” the bench said and briefly adjourned the matter. As soon as the case had come up for hearing, Chavan’s counsel Anand Langde submitted that the accused, a technician in the Maharashtra State Electric Production Company Ltd, might be suspended if he was arrested and pleaded for anticipatory bail. It was then that the Chief Justice of India asked whether the accused would marry the alleged victim. When the case was taken up again, the counsel told the apex court bench that he had been informed that the accused was already married and hence could not marry the alleged victim. The bench headed by Justice Bobde then directed the accused to withdraw his petition and approach the trial court for regular bail. However, the bench, which includes Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, granted interim protection of four weeks from arrest so that Chavan can seek regular bail. The accused had denied the prosecution’s allegations that he had sexually exploited the girl a number of times under the threat of pouring acid on her face and that he had also threatened to kill her brother. Bombay High Court had on February 5 cancelled the anticipatory bail granted to Chavan by a sessions court. Chavan moved the apex court challenging the high court ruling. Citing a number of earlier apex court judgments, the accused had pleaded that bail could be cancelled only if the accused misuses his liberty by indulging in similar activity, interferes with the course of investigation, attempts to tamper with evidence or witnesses, threatens witnesses or indulges in similar activities which would hamper smooth investigation, there is likelihood of his fleeing to another country, attempts to make himself scarce by going underground or becoming unavailable to the investigation agency, and attempts to place himself beyond the reach of his surety.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-300
02-03-2021||India||Chinese cybercampaign against India’s power grid||Early last summer, Chinese and Indian troops clashed in a border battle in the remote Galwan Valley, bashing each other to death with rocks and clubs. Four months later in Mumbai, trains shut down and the stock market closed as the power went out in a city of 20 million people. Hospitals had to switch to emergency generators to keep ventilators running amid a coronavirus outbreak that was among India’s worst. Now, a new study lends weight to the idea that those two events may well have been connected — as part of a broad Chinese cybercampaign against India’s power grid, timed to send a message that if India pressed its claims too hard, the lights could go out across the country. The study shows that as the standoff continued in the Himalaya, taking at least two dozen lives, Chinese malware was flowing into the control systems that manage electric supply across India, along with a high-voltage transmission substation and a coal-fired power plant. The flow of malware was pieced together by Recorded Future, a Somerville, Massachusetts, company that studies the use of the Internet by state actors. It found that most of the malware was never activated. And because Recorded Future could not get inside India’s power systems, it could not examine the details of the code itself, which was placed in strategic power-distribution systems across the country. While it has notified Indian authorities, so far they are not reporting what they have found. Stuart Solomon, Recorded Future’s chief operating officer, said that the Chinese state-sponsored group, which the firm named Red Echo, “has been seen to systematically utilise advanced cyberintrusion techniques to quietly gain a foothold in nearly a dozen critical nodes across the Indian power generation and transmission infrastructure”. The discovery raises the question about whether an outage that struck on October 13 in Mumbai was meant as a message from Beijing about what might happen if India pushed its border claims too vigorously. News reports at the time quoted Indian officials as saying that the cause was a Chinese-origin cyberattack on a nearby electricity load-management centre. Authorities began a formal investigation, which is due to report in the coming weeks. Since then, Indian officials have gone silent about the Chinese code, whether it set off the Mumbai blackout and the evidence provided to them by Recorded Future that many elements of the nation’s electric grid were the target of a sophisticated Chinese hacking effort. It is possible the Indians are still searching for the code. But acknowledging its insertion, one former Indian diplomat noted, could complicate the diplomacy in recent days between China’s foreign minister, Wang Yi, and his Indian counterpart, Subrahmanyam Jaishankar, in an effort to ease the border tensions. The investigators who wrote the Recorded Future study, said that “the alleged link between the outage and the discovery of the unspecified malware” in the system “remains unsubstantiated”. But they noted that “additional evidence suggested the coordinated targeting of the Indian load dispatch centres”, which balance the electrical demands across regions of the country. The discovery is the latest example of how the conspicuous placement of malware in an adversary’s electric grid or other critical infrastructure has become the newest form of both aggression and deterrence — a warning that if things are pushed too far, millions could suffer. “I think the signalling is being done” by China to indicate “that we can and we have the capability to do this in times of a crisis”, said retired Lt. Gen. D.S. Hooda, a cyberexpert who oversaw India’s borders with Pakistan and China. “It’s like sending a warning to India that this capability exists with us.” Both India and China maintain medium-size nuclear arsenals, which have traditionally been seen as the ultimate deterrent. But neither side believes that the other would risk a nuclear exchange in response to bloody disputes over the Line of Actual Control, an ill-defined border demarcation where long-running disputes have escalated into deadly conflicts by increasingly nationalistic governments. Cyberattacks give them another option — less devastating than a nuclear attack, but capable of giving a country a strategic and psychological edge. Russia was a pioneer in using this technique when it turned the power off twice in Ukraine several years ago. And the US has engaged in similar signalling. After the Department of Homeland Security announced publicly that the American power grid was littered with code inserted by Russian hackers, the US put code into Russia’s grid in a warning to President Vladimir V. Putin. Now the Joe Biden administration is promising that within weeks it will respond to another intrusion — it will not yet call it an attack — from Russia, one that penetrated at least nine government agencies and more than 100 corporations. Until recent years, China’s focus had been on information theft. But Beijing has been increasingly active in placing code into infrastructure systems, knowing that when it is discovered, the fear of an attack can be as powerful a tool as an attack itself. In the Indian case, Recorded Future sent its findings to India’s Computer Emergency Response Team, or CERT-In, a kind of investigative and early-warning agency most nations maintain to keep track of threats to critical infrastructure. Twice the centre has acknowledged receipt of the information, but said nothing about whether it, too, found the code in the electric grid. Repeated inquiries by The New York Times to the centre and several of its officials over the past two weeks yielded no comment. The Chinese government, which did not respond to questions about the code in the Indian grid, could argue that India started the cyberaggression. In India, a patchwork of state-backed hackers were caught using coronavirus-themed phishing emails to target Chinese organisations in Wuhan last February. A Chinese security company, 360 Security Technology, accused state-backed Indian hackers of targeting hospitals and medical research organisations with phishing emails, in an espionage campaign. Four months later, as tensions rose between the two countries on the border, Chinese hackers unleashed a swarm of 40,300 hacking attempts on India’s technology and banking infrastructure in just five days. Some of the incursions were so-called denial-of-service attacks that knocked these systems offline; others were phishing attacks, according to the police in Maharashtra. By December, security experts at the Cyber Peace Foundation, an Indian nonprofit that follows hacking efforts, reported a new wave of Chinese attacks, in which hackers sent phishing emails to Indians related to the Indian holidays in October and November. Researchers tied the attacks to domains registered in China’s Guangdong and Henan Provinces, to an organisation called Fang Xiao Qing. The aim, the foundation said, was to obtain a beachhead in Indians’ devices, possibly for future attacks. “One of the intentions seems to be power projection,” said Vineet Kumar, the president of the Cyber Peace Foundation. The foundation has also documented a surge of malware directed at India’s power sector, from petroleum refineries to a nuclear power plant, since last year. Because it is impossible for the foundation or Recorded Future to examine the code, it is unclear whether they are looking at the same attacks, but the timing is the same. Yet except for the Mumbai blackout, the attacks have not disrupted the provision of energy, officials said. And even there, officials have gone quiet after initially determining that the code was most likely Chinese. Yashasvi Yadav, a police official in charge of Maharashtra’s cyberintelligence unit, said authorities found “suspicious activity” that suggested the intervention of a state actor. But Yadav declined to elaborate, saying the investigation’s full report would be released in early March. Nitin Raut, a state government minister quoted in local reports in November blaming sabotage for the Mumbai outage, did not respond to questions about the blackout. Military experts in India have renewed calls for the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to replace the Chinese-made hardware for India’s power sector and its critical rail system. “The issue is we still haven’t been able to get rid of our dependence on foreign hardware and foreign software,” Gen. Hooda said. Indian government authorities have said a review is underway of India’s information technology contracts, including with Chinese companies. But the reality is that ripping out existing infrastructure is expensive and difficult. New York Times News Service The Telegraph’s special correspondent adds from New Delhi: The Union power ministry on Monday publicly acknowledged that a Chinese “state-sponsored threat actor group” is targeting India’s power sector cybersecurity but added that there was no impact on the operations of the Power System Operation Cooperation (POSOCO) because of any malware attack. Nor was there any data breach, the ministry said after The New York Times report was published. The external affairs ministry remained tight-lipped all day on the report and did not respond to questions on whether the issue had been raised with the Chinese government after the power ministry confirmed that India’s power sector is being targeted by a state-sponsored threat actor group from China, Red Echo. While confirming the malware threat, the power ministry, however, made no mention of the Mumbai outage. According to the power ministry, a system of monitoring and analysing cyber activities is in place at all regional and national load dispatch centres operated by POSOCO. The ministry said it had received an email from CERT-In on November 19 warning of the threat of malware called Shadow Pad at some control centres of POSOCO. Subsequently on February 12, the National Critical Information Infrastructure Protection Centre informed the ministry that the Chinese state-sponsored group called Red Echo “is targeting Indian power sector’s Regional Load Dispatch Centres along with State Load Dispatch Centres’’. The IP addresses and domain names mentioned in this email have been blocked in the firewall at all control centres, the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-300
02-03-2021||India||AAP tries to achieve national party status ||Aam Aadmi Party chief Arvind Kejriwal had said last month that his party would fight all elections in the next two years in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat. All these states have Assembly polls in 2022 and, barring Punjab, are ruled by the BJP. The renewed national ambition after a drubbing in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, when the AAP had contested 432 seats including Kejriwal unsuccessfully fighting Narendra Modi, is now poised to bear fruit. The AAP is trying to achieve national party status that entitles an outfit to use its symbol in any election across India and secure a place in public consultations at all levels of government. The AAP is a state party in Delhi and Punjab. Three per cent of Assembly seats, or an 8 per cent vote share in Assembly polls in any two other states, would qualify it for national status. However, the AAP’s ambition may nibble into any consolidation of anti-incumbency votes. Of the six states, the AAP’s bid seems the strongest in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, besides Punjab where it is the principal Opposition. The party has been projecting Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh as its face in the mammoth state of Uttar Pradesh where it came fifth in urban local body polls in 2017. Singh cut his teeth as an activist for hawkers’ rights in eastern Uttar Pradesh’s Sultanpur under the tutelage of socialist Raghu Thakur for two decades before he joined the anti-corruption movement in 2011, from which the AAP emerged a year later. Although he is a Rajput, Singh is not seen as a caste leader — a qualification in Uttar Pradesh’s politics. “This year we plan to contest 3,000 zilla parishad seats that are spread over all 403 Assembly segments. We have a positive response to our agitations against the poor state of law and order, schools and hospitals and overpriced electricity…. People are attracted to us because they are disappointed with all parties that have ruled the state,” Singh told The Telegraph. He added: “The BJP is highly unpopular among Dalits, Other Backward Classes and minorities who continuously face atrocities by them, such as (the government’s mishandling of) the Hathras (murder and gang-rape) case, and we are fighting to defend their rights…. We are the best choice to defeat them as we have done so thrice in Delhi.” Veteran journalist Ambrish Kumar, who divides his time between Lucknow and Nainital, told this newspaper: “Although Sanjay Singh’s background is rural, his party is largely present in urban areas and draws volunteers from mainly the socialist as well as Hindutva political streams. The BJP is overwhelmingly popular among urban voters and the AAP has not been able to challenge that so far. “In the state, the two main contestants are the BJP and the Samajwadi Party, with the Bahujan Samaj Party in third place.” The AAP’s focus on Dalits, OBCs and religious minorities attracts those disgruntled with the BSP, SP and the Congress. “Sanjay has a clean image, and has become influential in public discourse here. But that has never been enough to win polls in UP. The AAP has no caste base and though he is a Rajput, the community is largely attracted to leaders like Yogi Adityanath or Raja Bhaiya (who was part of Akhilesh Yadav’s ministry),” Kumar added. At best, said Kumar, the AAP could try to enter an alliance with larger Opposition parties. “The party appeals to the urban middle class, both in UP and Uttarakhand, and is seen as not corrupt. In the latter, they have had the added advantage of attracting several environment activists and former statehood activists to their fold. They may do better in Haldwani, Dehradun or Nainital than they would in Lucknow. But the party is yet to find a face like Sanjay in Uttarakhand,” Kumar said. In both states, the AAP has thrown challenges at incumbent ministers to publicly debate the state of government schools. The AAP’s Delhi leaders have gone with TV cameras in tow to visit schools, often being stopped by police. Its government in New Delhi is credited with greatly improving government schools. The polity of Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh has been bipolar so far. A major campaign for Goa in 2017, and a limited campaign for Gujarat the same year, drew blanks. However, the AAP made a good debut in recent municipal polls in Gujarat to the detriment of the Congress. The BJP’s seat share increased by almost 16 per cent, and the Congress’s shrunk by more than 20 per cent. The AAP replaced the Congress as the leading Opposition party in the Surat Municipal Corporation, where the Congress drew a blank. The AAP won seats in other municipal bodies too. The BSP and the All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen also did well. Almost silent about the BJP, Kejriwal said last week: “The people of Surat have handed over the responsibility to the Aam Aadmi Party as the main Opposition party and rejected the 125-year-old Congress.” In Punjab, the AAP has suffered splits since the previous Assembly polls, and its Lok Sabha tally fell from four to a single seat in 2019. The AAP is competing with the Congress in wooing farmers protesting the new agri regime. However, it came third, after the Shiromani Akali Dal, in recent municipal polls in Punjab — where sentiments against the new farm laws are the strongest. Kejriwal addressed a farmers’ conference in western Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut on Sunday. Besides Uttar Pradesh and Punjab, the other four states are expected to witness a straight fight between the BJP and the Congress, with or without allies. “For the urban middle class in north India, there are two political deities, Modi being the higher one and Kejriwal the lesser. In a choice between the two outside Delhi, they are likely to choose Modi…. But whether the AAP grows enough to cut the Opposition’s votes remains to be seen. It has had a good start by attracting several young people to it,” Kumar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-300
02-03-2021||India||Bhima-Koregaon case: Apex court to take up Gautam Navlakha bail plea||A three-judge bench of the Supreme Court comprising Justices U.U. Lallit, Indira Banerjee and K.M. Joseph will take up on Wednesday the anticipatory bail plea of civil rights activist Gautam Navalakha who is facing sedition and other charges in the Bhima Koregaon violence, which the NIA claimed was engineered by Maoist elements. On February 14, the Bombay High Court had dismissed the bail plea of Navlakha and co-accused Anand Teltumbde in the Bhima Koregaon case, but had extended the interim protection granted to them in December last year by four weeks to enable them approach the Supreme Court. The high court had rejected the anticipatory bail on the ground that the material placed before it indicated that there was prima facie evidence showing the complicity of both the accused in the case. It has been alleged that on December 31, 2017, members of the Kabir Kala Manch, under Bhima Koregaon Shouryadin Prerna Abhiyan, held a meeting of the Elgar Parishad at Pune’s Shaniwarwada where active members of the CPI(Maoist) supposedly raised provocative slogans. The activists were also accused of engaging in other activities with the intention to conspire, incite and abet the commission of terrorist acts, thus promoting enmity between groups, which culminated in the violence January 1, 2018, at Bhima Koregaon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-300
02-03-2021||India||Former judge who glorified Brahmins joins BJP ||A retired Kerala High Court judge, who had kicked up a row by extolling the virtues of Brahmins and stating that only members of the community should be at the helm of affairs, has joined the BJP. V. Chitambaresh joined the party on Sunday during the “Vijaya Yatra” of Kerala state BJP president K. Surendran at a public event in Thripunithura in Ernakulam district.  Chitambaresh’s former colleague from the same high court, P.N. Ravindran, followed suit. As a serving judge, Chitambaresh had courted a massive controversy while addressing the Tamil Brahmins’ Global Meet in Kochi in July 2019 where he had said Brahmins should “always be at the helm of affairs”. “It may be noted that a Brahmin is never communal, he is always considerate, he is an ahimsavadi (proponent of non-violence). He loves people. He is the one who liberally donates for any laudable cause, Such a person should always be at the helm of affairs for which this Tamil Brahmin’s meet will definitely be a pointer,” the then judge had said. A native of Palakkad in Kerala, Chitambaresh had presented a virtuous picture of the community while describing why they stood out against non-brahmins. “Who is a Brahmin? A Brahmin is dwijhanmana (twice born), because of poorvajanmasuhridam (the result of noble deeds in the previous birth). He has certain distinct characteristics — clean habits, lofty thinking, sterling character, mostly a vegetarian, a lover of Carnatic music — all good qualities rolled into one is a Brahmin,” he had said. He had pushed for reservations based on economic criteria. “It is time for you (Brahmins) to deliberate as to whether reservations should be on the basis of community or caste alone,” he had said. While Chitambaresh retired in 2019, Ravindran retired in 2018. They were among five retired Kerala High Court judges who had in January endorsed the Uttar Pradesh government’s law against “love jihad” in a letter signed by 224 retired bureaucrats, former high court judges and lawyers addressed to UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath. The state BJP president has already promised to bring a UP-like law against “love jihad” if the party is voted to power. The letter was a counter to another one signed by 104 retired bureaucrats who sought withdrawal of the law. Chitambaresh could not be reached for comments owing to non-availability of his contact number and email. Party spokesperson Shivasankar told this newspaper that Chitambaresh, who joined the BJP, could not be present at the event as he was caught up in Delhi. “He joined the party in principle as he could not come here,” the spokesperson said, adding that more than 15 others, including former director-general of police Venugopalan Nair, retired admiral B.R. Menon and former general manager of Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd Somachoodan, also joined the party on the occasion. Shivasankar pleaded ignorance about Chitambaresh having made the casteist remarks in 2019. “I am not aware of any such thing. I haven’t heard about it,” he added. Najeeb Kanthapuram, state vice-president of Muslim Youth League — an arm of Indian Union Muslim League — linked the development to the historic press conference addressed by five Supreme Court judges in January 2018. “The nation was shocked when Justice J. Chelameswar said democracy would not survive unless corrective actions are taken in the highest court of our country. But what is on display now accentuates that claim and fear our judges had expressed,” Kanthapuram said. “Retired judges, bureaucrats and police officers joining the BJP means only one thing. That they have been concealing their RSS colours all through their serving years. What justice can we expect from them?” asked the influential leader. But prominent Dalit leader M. Geethanandan saw the issue from a larger perspective and expressed concern at retired judges entering politics. “Whether serving or retired, judges must maintain the judicial culture of justice throughout their life. Judicial officers are the guardians of our democracy and hence should not be part of a political system where caste, creed, religion and other considerations rule.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-301
02-03-2021||India||Rahul anna, what will you ask the PM?||Q: What will you ask Prime Minister Narendra Modi, if you were to interview him? Rahul: You have asked me a tricky question. (Laughter in audience). “I would ask ‘why are you convinced that all answers should come from you? Why don’t you listen to what the people of the country feel or want to say?’” Rahul recalled his brief interaction with a few boys with whom he sipped tea before arriving at the school. Rahul said he was impressed by the ambition of one of them who wanted to become an astronaut. Rahul said he would write a letter to the chairman of Isro who may allow the boy to visit the space station. “When he visits, he may be inspired and will grow up to join the space mission...,” he said. Becoming an astronaut was the boy’s choice but helping him achieve his dream was the politician’s job, he added. Q: Why do youngsters not want to make politics a career? Rahul: It could be so because there are some politicians who steal from people. There are good political leaders who work for the people, try to understand people and empower them. Draw inspiration from such leaders who help people. Rahul said teachers and students are both equally important in shaping the education policy as they are the pillars of the institution. He said no policy would be beneficial if the views of teachers and students are not obtained. “If I force you to read, then it is arrogance. But if I ask what do you require, then it is humility. Arrogance creates problems whereas humility resolves problems,” he said. The Wayanad MP displayed his fitness when he effortlessly did multiple push-ups, including one-handed, and shook a leg with the students he interacted with as accompanying Congress leaders Dinesh Gundu Rao and K.S. Alagiri joined him. Q: What is Rahul Anna’s recipe for good health? Do you  follow a special diet regimen? Rahul: I run, swim and cycle. I have learnt Aikido martial art. Rahul told a public meeting in Nagercoil: “Modi talks about one culture, one nation, one history and one leader”. “Is Tamil not an Indian language? Is Bengali not an Indian language? Is Tamil culture not Indian culture? This is the battle that is being fought in this election,” Rahul said as the crowd cheered. “It is my duty to protect the Tamil language, culture and history just as it is my duty to protect all languages and religions in India,” he said. Based on a PTI report||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-301
02-03-2021||India||Congress dissenters finally burn their bridges with public outreach programme||The group of dissenters known as G-23 might have finally burnt their bridges with the Congress by starting a separate public outreach programme and their leader Ghulam Nabi Azad expressing his admiration for Prime Minister Narendra Modi at a time the party is locked in a bitter political battle with the Centre. While the so-called loyalists and AICC office-bearers had so far avoided attacking this group and hoped the differences would be resolved, Azad’s praise for Modi on Sunday dramatically changed the mood in the party and the dominant view now is that reconciliation is not possible. While ordinary workers and middle-rung leaders are livid and want immediate expulsion of some of the key dissenters, even a few top office-bearers feel what was being done was a deliberate ploy to harm the Congress. Azad had on Sunday said in Srinagar that he admired Modi for not hiding his “reality” and revealing that he had been a tea-seller. Though Azad said he was opposed to Modi’s politics, Congress leaders insist the intention was to create confusion through the praise. Many leaders argued this attitude was not in tune with the party’s official line articulated by Rahul Gandhi, that Modi is destroying India’s democracy and harming farmers and the poor by serving the interests of some corporate houses. A Congress general secretary told The Telegraph: “Running a parallel campaign to highlight the weaknesses of the party and create an impression of a leadership crisis when the schedule for organisational elections is being worked out points to a sinister conspiracy. “What they are doing now is anti-party activity. This is not the way to behave as these leaders have held important posts for decades and fully understand the challenges the party and the nation are grappling with. There is deep disappointment among the workers and muddling along like this will prove counter-productive.” Another senior leader said: “This is brazen politics of blackmail. They want to weaken the Congress at this critical juncture only because their personal position is not secure. “Let them break away if they want. When Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi and other leaders are working hard to revive the Congress, they have stabbed Sonia Gandhi in the back. They have forgotten what the party gave to them; they are blinded by the lust for extracting some more pounds of flesh. No unity of purpose is possible now as all kinds of stories about their plans and nexus are floating around.” While Rahul Gandhi on Monday completed his three-day tour of election-bound Tamil Nadu, Priyanka Gandhi embarked on a two-day journey of Assam where the Congress is struggling to snatch power from the BJP. This is a new development in the party as Priyanka had so far restricted her election campaign to Uttar Pradesh and avoided touring other states. She did canvass a couple of times outside Uttar Pradesh but only for select candidates. Priyanka is now scheduled to campaign in the elections across the country. Sources said her tour programme for Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Bengal is being worked out. The G-23, on the other hand, are planning rallies in Himachal Pradesh and Haryana, to be followed by a public meeting in Delhi. Former Union minister Anand Sharma, one of the architects of G-23, again attacked the leadership publicly on Monday by objecting to developments in Bengal. Sharma tweeted: “Congress’ alliance with parties like ISF and other such forces militates against the core ideology of the party and Gandhian and Nehruvian secularism, which forms the soul of the party. These issues need to be approved by the CWC. Congress cannot be selective in fighting communalists but must do so in all its manifestations, irrespective of religion and colour. The presence and endorsement West Bengal PCC president is painful and shameful, he must clarify.” Sharma has been speaking like a critic and a challenger despite his five-decade-long experience and knowledge of what party discipline means. Interestingly, one of the G-23 members, former chief minister of Maharashtra Prithviraj Chavan on Monday accepted the responsibility of heading the screening committee for Assam, a body which shortlists candidates for election. This either indicates that the G-23 has crumbled or there is no clarity on the road ahead for these rebels. The party is doubtless heading for a split as the loyalists have begun to lose respect for these veterans and have made up their mind to let them go. All they want now is the sooner the better, hoping to clear the debris for reconstruction before it gets too late for the next general election.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-301
02-03-2021||India||Uttarakhand union announces 1600km Kisan Yatra||The Terai Kisan Sangathan, a peasants’ union from Uttarakhand that is associated with the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), has announced a 1,600km yatra from March 6 to expand the ongoing protest against the three farm laws. “The 15-day march on foot as well as by tractors and other vehicles would cover 1,600km and pass through 15 districts of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand,” Tajinder Singh Virk, president of the Sangathan, said at a mahapanchayat in Udham Singh Nagar, Uttarakhand, on Monday. “The yatra will start from Muzaffarnagar and culminate at Ghazipur border in Ghaziabad district, where a large number of farmers have been on dharna for about 100 days”, he said. Besides the Terai Kisan Sangathan, Bharatiya Sikh Sangathan, Bharatiya Kisan Union and Shramik Samyukta Morcha participated in the mahapanchayat to mount pressure on the Centre to repeal the laws. Jagrat Singh Bajwa, convener of the SKM at Ghazipur border, told reporters the government would get a befitting reply in future elections if  the farmers’ demand to repeal the three laws is not met. Rakesh Tikait, the BKU spokesperson, also attended the mahapanchayat. “Our movement is purely for the farmers’ rights. We don’t have anything to do with any political party. We don’t need to work to elect or reject a government,” Tikait said. “The government’s silence for the past 15-20 days is indicating that something is going to happen. The government is planning some steps against the agitation,” he said. However, Tikait said farmers would not step back till a solution is found. “The farmer is also ready. He will look after his crop as well as the agitation. Let the government hold talks when it has the time,” he said. A leader of the TKS who didn’t want to be named said: “The government has shown no interest in resolving the stalemate as in several rounds of talks, the Union ministers have made it clear that they wouldn’t withdraw the three new farm laws, which promote corporate contract farming with the farmers at the receiving end.” The leader added: “If a particular political party in power is trying to destroy the farmers, then we cannot say that we don’t want to throw out of power that dispensation.” Protest plan Protesting farmers will block the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway on March 6, a Samyukta Kisan Morcha leader said on Monday. Balbir Singh Rajewal said that a call has been given to farmers camping at the three Delhi border points – Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur —  to block the KMP Expressway from 11am to 5pm on Saturday. The 136km Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2018. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha also said that a joint programme of action is being worked with many central trade unions that have expressed their support and solidarity with the ongoing farmers’ movement. In a statement, the Morcha said the month of March will witness numerous mahapanchayats across the country, including in Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana,  Bengal and Odisha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-301
02-03-2021||India||Former CM Om Prakash Chautala sees early Haryana polls||Indian National Lok Dal president and former Haryana chief minister Om Prakash Chautala on Monday said that there will be mid-term elections in the state as the state government will fall soon. Chautala said that farmers have been protesting against three agricultural laws for the last about three months, but instead of listening to their voice and fulfilling the demands, the BJP government is only persecuting them. He said that the BJP government should accept the demands of the farmers soon and withdraw these agricultural laws. “The state government will fall soon and there will be mid-term elections in the state,” Chautala said addressing party workers in Hisar. He said the farmers’ agitation has become a mass movement that can never be suppressed. Chautala said that people from every fraternity, rising above caste and religion, are opposing the agricultural laws and want to get rid of the misrule. The INLD stands with the farmers, he said. INLD’s lone MLA Abhay Singh Chautala had recently resigned from his seat in favour of farmers’ agitation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-301
02-03-2021||India||CJI marital rape query in a consensual relationship||Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde on Monday wondered whether a consensual sexual relationship can be termed rape because the man had refused to marry. “If two people are married to each other and are living as husband and wife, the husband may be brutal and commit wrong. But can the act of sexual intercourse between lawfully wedded man and wife be called rape?” the CJI asked advocate Aditya Vashishtnath, appearing for the complainant woman. The counsel said the consent was obtained by fraud as the man, Vinay Pratap Singh, had taken the woman to Manali in Himachal Pradesh and had married her at a local temple in the year 2014. However, subsequently, he married another woman and was refusing to accept the complainant as his wife. The counsel placed before the court certain medical records to prove that the woman was subjected to physical assaults by Singh and had sustained grievous injuries on her private parts. The court suggested that the woman should then file a case of cruelty and criminal assault against the man instead of filing a rape case. The bench also comprising Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian said: “Making a false promise of marriage is certainly wrong. No one should falsely promise marriage and later break it off. But that is something different from saying that such consensual relationship is rape.” However, senior advocate Vibha Dutta Makhija appearing for the man contended that there was a consensual relationship between the two. “It’s a habitual act of this lady. She had committed this act with two others in office,” the senior lady lawyer submitted. This prompted the CJI to remark: “This argument is possible only because you (a woman lawyer) are making it. You know what courts have ruled on the word habitual for a victim?” Justice Bobde was alluding to the earlier judgments of the Supreme Court that even if a woman is accustomed to sexual intercourse with more than one partner, yet, she cannot be subjected to rape. The bench, however, said that it would not entertain the anticipatory bail petition. He can approach the trial court and get himself discharged for the offence, the CJI told the Makhija. Later the bench granted the man interim protection from arrest for four weeks to enable him seek a regular bail from the trial court. The accused had moved the Supreme Court for anticipatory bail after the Allahabad High Court had rejected the same and had asked him to face trial.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-301
02-03-2021||India||Nodeep Kaur calls for united action against state repression||Labour activist Nodeep Kaur, who was released from jail last week, on Monday called for united action against state repression, adding that her arrest and that of many others speaking up for the farmers and the marginalised is a sign that the government is running scared. Addressing a news conference in the national capital from the platform of 36 organisations jointly fighting state repression, Nodeep said while she was happy to be free and grateful for the support she got not just in India but from across the globe, the struggle is far from over. “True victory can be claimed only when these farm laws are repealed, when men and women earn equal wages, and when workers have the right to raise their voice against oppression and inequality without fear or threat,’’ the young activist said, drawing attention to the plight of Shiv Kumar, president of the Mazdoor Adhikar Sanghathan, who is still in prison and has allegedly been tortured. His medical report submitted in court showed fractures and broken toenail beds. Speaking on the charges levelled against her, Nodeep said the police are accusing her of trying to organise labourers in the Kundli Industrial Area near the Singhu border protest site of farmers. “Is it a crime to organise workers to demand what is their due? If workers ask for their wages, is it extortion?’’ she said, referring to the charge of extortion against her. “The way the government is using different laws against activists and bringing cases against them shows how frightened they are of people who stand up to them. Whoever — Dalit, Muslim, Sikh or Adivasi — raises their voice against the government is called names and branded. Cases are filed against them under stringent laws. It shows that the State is scared of people who protest and distribute pamphlets, including a girl like me,’’ she said. Even on Monday, as she addressed the news conference inside the Press Club of India, two bus-loads of riot police were stationed outside. Referring to the charge that she and her co-accused had intended to attack the police, Nodeep asked if that were so, “Then why were we protesting outside the gates of a company demanding wages for the workers? All we had in our hands were the sticks on which our flags were tied.’’ Earlier, Shiv Kumar’s father Rajbir too addressed the media and said he has not been allowed to meet his son since his arrest on January 16. Choking on his words, the elderly man said he got a fleeting glimpse of his son once and there were signs of torture. A medico-legal examination report submitted to the Punjab and Haryana High Court last month states that he had faced custodial torture at the hands of the police. Nodeep’s call for combined action came hours before the Samyukta Kisan Morcha — the joint platform of farmers organisations spearheading the movement against the farm laws — was to meet central trade unions on Monday evening to chalk out a joint programme of action. The trade unions are also agitated over the proposed sale of public sector companies and new labour code that is likely to come into effect from April 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-301
02-03-2021||India||JNU fails to pay salary to teachers and staff on time||When some teachers of Jawaharlal Nehru University(JNU) were listing before reporters on Monday the “unique feats” achieved under the watch of vice-chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar, they realised another rare “achievement” had just been accomplished. For the first time since its inception 52 years ago, the university failed to pay the February salary to teachers and staff on time, said Bikramaditya Choudhary, a faculty member at the Centre for the Study of Regional Development in JNU. “The vice-chancellor failed to pay the salary of teachers and staff on time. How will the non-teaching staff who plan their expenditure on the monthly salary manage?” asked Choudhary. The university pays salary on the last working day of every month, except for that in March. The March salary gets delayed because of taxation issues, said Choudhary, the former secretary of the Jawaharlal Nehru University Teachers’ Association (JNUTA). Choudhary said there had been several rulings by courts on the payment of salary on time. Last week, in a case of the Andhra Pradesh government defaulting on salary to staff in March and April 2020, a bench of the Supreme Court iterated that “salaries are rightful entitlement of employees” and in case of delay, interest should be paid. Some of the prominent charges levelled by the JNUTA against vice-chancellor Kumar are “arbitrary” academic and administrative decisions; spending public funds on litigation, most of which are avoidable; wastage of research seats; non-implementation of the reservation policy in faculty posts; and cutting expenses on academic matters. The JNUTA said statutory bodies such as the Executive Council and the Academic Council and the Board of Studies were responsible for chalking out the academic calendar, deliberating upon new teaching programmes and finalising courses and selection committee panels. “The irony is that all these bodies continue to be there, but they function in a sub-optimal manner — important decisions related to the university have been taken without substantial deliberations in these statutory bodies. It’s the VC and not the university that has autonomy in JNU today,” the JNUTA said. Over 150 cases have been filed by various constituencies —faculty, students, non-teaching staff — against the vice-chancellor and his administration between 2016 and2021. In the majority of the cases, the university has been found to commit illegality, it said. For instance, on the matter of implementation of reservation in faculty positions in JNU, a division bench of Delhi High Court on January 11 this year had issued an order asking the varsity to recast the roster policy on all faculty posts. The bench modified an earlier order of a single judge which had quashed the advertisement for two faculty posts whose reservation status were altered. One of the petitioners, Pradeep Shinde, an assistant professor at the centre for informal sector and labour studies, could not apply as the university changed the reservation status of the posts of associate professor in labour studies from the Scheduled Caste to the Scheduled Tribe  in 2019. Shinde belongs to a Scheduled Caste. The universities follow a roster system, according to which the fourth post is reserved for Other Backward Classes (OBCs) while the seventh and 13th posts are reserved for SC and ST applicants, respectively. Although the single bench quashed the advertisement, the petitioner had gone to the division bench with the plea that the reservation policy be followed for all posts. The petitioner contended that around 30 posts meant for SCs and STs under the roster system were altered. The division bench directed the varsity to implement the roster system, and upload the posts and their reservation status on the JNU website, after which it can start the process of fresh recruitment. According to the financial accounts presented by the university, legal expenses increased from Rs 2.72 lakh in 2017-18 to Rs 17.7 lakh in 2018-19. Additional funds of Rs 30 lakh were approved by the Executive Council in September 2020, despite opposition from the elected teachers’ representatives. JNUTA secretary Moushumi Basu said most of the cases relate to targeted actions like chargesheet against teachers for taking part in protests, withholding of pension dues, denial of grant of leave, appointment of junior person as chairperson of centres or setting up of enquiry. One such case is the appointment of chairpersons of centres. Delhi High Court passed an order in April 2018 to reinstate a dean and four chairpersons who were removed by the vice-chancellor for not agreeing to a decision to impose mandatory attendance for students. In another case, the vice-chancellor had debarred two members of the Executive Council from participating in the meeting. The high court in April 2019 stated that prima facie “the resolution debarring them from participating in the meeting of the Executive Council is contrary to the statutes”. Former JNUTA secretary Surajit Mazumdar said the university in 2017 reduced the number of seats in research programmes after wrongly interpreting the University Grants Commission’s guidelines on admission. A bench of Delhi High Court ruled thatthe university wasted several hundred seats. “During theperiod of the last five years, the university discontinued the deprivation points given to students from backward areas,” he said. The JNUTA demanded that Kumar be removed from the post immediately and should not be appointed in any other public institution as its head. Separate emails were sent to Kumar and also to the education ministry by this newspaper. No comments could be obtained till Monday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-301
02-03-2021||India||Narendra Modi takes Covid jab, app trips on first day rush||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday took his first dose of a Covid-19 vaccine and urged people to vaccinate themselves, but the Centre’s online portal for advance registration appeared unprepared for the deluge of vaccine aspirants. Nearly 2.5 million people on Monday registered themselves for Covid-19 vaccines, but glitches in the online registration process prevented many across India from booking appointments, a nationwide survey and healthcare sector executives have suggested. The Union health ministry said over 128,000 people aged 60 years or older and 18,850 between 45 and 59 years with chronic health disorders had received their first doses by 7pm. About 126,000 healthcare and 152,000 frontline workers also received vaccines. Modi through a morning tweet announced that he had taken the first dose of the vaccine. “Took my first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine at AIIMS … I appeal to all those who are eligible to take the vaccine. Together, let us make India Covid-19 free,” he wrote. A spot online survey, however, found that about 92 per cent of a sample of 6,845 people from more than 200 districts who tried to register in advance through the Centre’s Co-Win portal were unable to book appointments between 9.30am and 2.30pm. The vaccination campaign that began on Monday is open to people aged 60 years or older and those between 45 and 59 years with any of 20 specified chronic health disorders. Only 8 per cent of that sample successfully booked appointments, according to the survey by Local Circles, a community social media platform. About half of those who tried to register found themselves stuck at the OTP (one-time password) stage, 13 per cent failed to access the portal, while 29 per cent registered themselves but could not book appointments. “These must be teething troubles, maybe because of the large numbers trying to register,” said Girdhar Gyani, executive director of the Association of Healthcare Providers of India, a body representing private hospitals and nursing homes across the country. Some hospitals have assigned separate time slots for those with advance registrations and those wishing to opt for spot walk-in registrations. The Centre said about 644,000 beneficiaries on Monday booked their appointments. Despite the registration glitches, many private hospitals reported smooth vaccinations and patience among recipients. “There was enthusiasm among recipients — when the online portal didn’t work, people just waited — we didn’t see any dissatisfaction. They just waited with cups of coffee,” Devinder Rana, chair of the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, New Delhi, where 96 recipients had registered in advance and 88 were walk-ins. The campaign seeks to eventually immunise everyone 50 years or older and those below 50 with chronic health disorders, an estimated 270 million people. India’s Covid-19 epidemic has been growing over the past two weeks, driven largely by a sharp increase in new cases in Maharashtra, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh. Infectious disease sleuths and genomic scientists are scrambling to determine whether the growing counts in these states are due to complacency with personal protection measures, poor public health responses or unusual fast-spreading coronavirus variants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-301
02-03-2021||West Bengal||TMC MLA Jitendra Tiwari joins BJP in presence of state party chief Dilip Ghosh||Amid an ongoing exodus from the ruling Trinamool Congress ahead of the West Bengal assembly elections, two-time party MLA from Pandabeswar in Paschim Barddhaman district and former Asansol mayor, Jitendra Tiwari, joined the BJP on Tuesday. Tiwari, who had rebelled against the TMC leadership but had mellowed down after the BJP declined to induct him into the party in December last year, joined the saffron camp in the presence of party state chief Dilip Ghosh at a programme in Sreerampur in Hooghly district. "I have joined the BJP as I want to work for the development of the state. In TMC, it was no longer possible to work for the party," he said after joining the saffron party. As per a report by NDTV, welcoming Tiwari into the BJP, its Bengal chief Dilip Ghosh said, "Jitendra Tiwari has changed his party today. He worked very hard for the Trinamool. One poriborton (change) has already started in Bengal, the other will also happen. Rajeev Banerjee and Probir Ghoshal (former TMC leaders) are also here with us." "Our party is growing every day. And we are growing in Bengal also. Jitendra Tiwari is a big leader but he has joined us on a small stage," Ghosh added. Elections to the 294-member state assembly will be held in eight phases between March 27 and April 29.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-179
02-03-2021||West Bengal||Yogi Adityanath slams Mamata for involving in appeasement politics||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday lambasted his Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee for allegedly pursuing appeasement politics and endangering national security by allowing illegal immigrants into the state for vote bank politics. He promised that cow smuggling will be stopped within a day if the BJP is voted to power in the state. Claiming that Bengal, which had once led the nation, is now facing a lawless situation, Adityanath, while addressing a rally in Malda district's Gazole, alleged that incidents of 'Love Jihad' are happening in the state, but the TMC government has failed to stop them. "Appeasement politics for the sake of vote bank has endangered the security of not only West Bengal but also of the country. The TMC government has a problem with refugees getting citizenship but has no issue with illegal immigrants coming to the state," Adityanath said. Claiming that the raising of 'Jai Shri Ram' slogan is not allowed in Bengal, Adityanath said that the people of the state will give a befitting reply to the TMC government for "playing with their religious sentiments". "Jai Shri Ram slogan is not allowed in Bengal, but people won't allow this to continue. 'Love Jihad' incidents are happening in Bengal. In Uttar Pradesh, we have made a law to stop such incidents but the TMC government has failed to stop both cow smuggling and 'Love Jihad'," he said. "If the BJP is voted to power in Bengal, we will stop cow smuggling within 24 hours," he added. Elections to the 294-member Assembly will be held in eight phases between March 27 and April 29.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-179
02-03-2021||West Bengal||Akhilesh, Tejashwi offer support to Mamata||Akhilesh Yadav in the morning, Tejashwi Yadav in the evening. The Young Turks of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar politics on Monday threw their weight behind Mamata Banerjee in Bengal. The expression of solidarity is fuelling hope in the Trinamul Congress that the Hindi-speaking voters of Bengal would favour the ruling party at the hustings. The back-to-back endorsement from the heartland is also expected to help Trinamul drive home the message that it is not against those with roots outside the state but its “outsider” label is aimed solely at those parachuting into the state to divide and polarise the people. Akhilesh, the Samajwadi Party chief, held a news conference on his home turf. Tejashwi, the RJD leader who came within striking distance of power and  gave the BJP alliance a scare in the Bihar elections although he was initially written off, met the Bengal chief minister at her office at Nabanna on Monday evening. Tejashwi’s gesture stood out all the more because he gave the Brigade rally of his Bihar allies —  the CPM and the Congress — a miss despite being in the city on Sunday. Both young leaders  virtually echoed each other while delivering their messages aimed at the large number of people from the two states who live in Bengal. Some estimates say voters in Bengal from the two states total at least 45 lakh. The voters from both states are being assiduously wooed by the BJP. Tejashwi, 31, urged the voters against getting swayed by the BJP’s “double-engine sarkar” pitch — a suggestion that having the same party in control of the Centre and the state government would expedite development in the state. He asked the people to learn from the example of his home state. “We will use all our strength to support Mamata Banerjee. Wherever she needs us, we will be there for her. No matter how hard the BJP tries, Bengal is a different kind of place. The language, the culture, the heritage, the ethos… of Bengal has to be protected. Democracy must be saved from those who are trying to destroy it,” Tejashwi said after meeting Mamata, echoing the uncompromising stand of his father Lalu Prasad against the BJP. “This is not only about Bengal, but about values, for the whole country, the Constitution and democracy,” the young leader added. Tejashwi made his message crystal clear: “Those from Bihar who live here, I would urge them to support Mamata Banerjee.” “That deceit of a double-engine sarkar, people (here) ought to know how that worsened the deprivation of the masses,” Tejashwi added. Mamata lauded Tejashwi, asserting that he had actually won the Assembly polls in Bihar but was deprived of victory by the trickery of the BJP, and said she was certain that sooner or later he would come to power in the state. Hailing Lalu Prasad as a father figure, Mamata wished him a long life for the sake of democracy. “The BJP should get the message. Wherever Tejashwi is fighting, I am fighting… wherever I am fighting, he is fighting,” she said. Mamata added: “They (the BJP) cannot win this election, no matter how much you try, with all the resources and powers at your disposal.” Asked if there were any talks with Mamata on seat-sharing, as the RJD purportedly wants 10-odd seats to contest from in districts such as Howrah, West Burdwan and Calcutta, Tejashwi said: “When she is fighting here, there would be no need for us.” Sources, however, said two senior RJD leaders met Trinamul poll consultant  Prashant Kishor  in Calcutta on Sunday for talks on a possible truck here. Although Tejashwi was to appear on the Brigade dais on Sunday, and he made it to Calcutta on time, he did not participate in the rally. Sources attributed this to advice from his Bihar ally Dipankar Bhattacharya, the general-secretary of the CPI (ML). Bhattacharya has been repeatedly advocating that non-BJP forces, including the Left, should de-prioritise their fight against Mamata in Bengal and focus on keeping the BJP out. Asked if his equation in Bengal would impact his allies such as the CPM and the Congress in Bihar, Tejashwi said every state has to be treated differently, according to the ground reality. “In Kerala, the Congress and the CPM are in a direct fight, whereas they are allies in Bengal,” he pointed out. Earlier in the day, Akhilesh, 47, declared his party’s moral support for Mamata in Bengal. “I will ask all our well-wishers to support Mamata Banerjee, to secure another victory for her…. We fully agree with her concerns about the BJP,” he said. The BJP mocked both Yadavs. BJP state youth wing chief Saumitra Khan said Akhilesh and Tejashwi were not even in power in their own states and claimed that neither wields any influence in Bengal. “What they say matters precious little here. We are coming to power,” said Khan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-179
02-03-2021||West Bengal||Assembly elections: Congress claims 92-seat deal with Left Front||The Congress on Monday said it had reached a deal with the Left Front and would field candidates in 92 Assembly segments, but vowed that not a single seat would be left aside for the Indian Secular Front from its share. “Today, we have been able to secure 92 seats for ourselves in our discussion with the Left,” Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said. Chowdhury and Rajya Sabha member Pradip Bhattacharya represented the Congress during the seat-sharing talks with the Left Front. CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra, Left Front chairman Biman Bose and politburo member Md. Salim took part in the parleys on behalf of the Left Front. “We had asked for 130 seats from the Left parties at the beginning… We, however, may not ask for the rest any more,” Chowdhury said. Asked how many of the 92 seats would be offered to the ISF, Chowdhury replied not a single one would be left to the new outfit. Sources aware of the negotiations said the state Congress chief may agree to a formula of the ISF getting a few seats from the remaining 38 of the initial list that the party had placed before the Left leaders. Chowdhury also said some seats that the alliance had initially allotted for parties like the NCP and the RJD may be considered for the ISF, a fledgling force floated by Furfura Sharif cleric Abbas Siddiqui. Leaders in the Left and the Congress said in private that hard bargaining by Siddiqui was coming in the way of smooth negotiations on the seat sharing. “Congress leaders are under tremendous pressure from the AICC to complete the seat sharing and hence, they would again sit with ISF functionaries to strike a deal,” said a source. Siddiqui told The Telegraph that it wasn’t possible for his party to make adjustments in more than two to three seats. “We have a list of 60 candidates ready. However, the candidates have also been told that in a couple of seats, they may have to sacrifice. But that is true for only a few seats,” Siddiqui said. Referring to the hiccups in negotiations with the Congress, he said that some people within the state Congress were in touch with Trinamul and were trying to disrupt the seat-sharing process. Senior Congress leader Anand Sharma raised questions about the alliance with the ISF. “Congress’ alliance with parties like ISF and other such forces militates against the core ideology of the party and Gandhian and Nehruvian secularism, which forms the soul of the party. These issues need to be approved by the CWC,” he tweeted. Jitin Prasada, the Congress observer for Bengal, tweeted: “Alliance decisions are taken keeping in mind the best interests of the party and the workers. Now is the time for everyone to join hands and work towards strengthening the prospects of the Congress in the poll bound states.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-179
02-03-2021||West Bengal||Parivartan Yatra: Wheels of BJP rath halts a day earlier in Malda||Wheels of the “rath” or the tableaux taken out by the BJP for its Parivartan Yatra in north Bengal came to a halt a day ahead of its schedule in Malda on Monday as it did not move into minority-dominated areas of the district. Although state and district BJP leaders attributed the yatra’s abrupt halt to their preoccupation with arrangements for Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s public meeting scheduled for Tuesday, there were indications that the lukewarm response to the “rath” spurred the decision. On February 11, Union home minister Amit Shah had flagged off the yatra from Cooch Behar. The tableau, BJP  insiders said, was supposed to visit all 12 Assembly constituencies in Malda from February 27 to March 2. As the “rath” arrived in the district, it moved through the constituencies of Habibpur and Malda, the Assembly segments which have a concentration of Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes. On Sunday, it went to Englishbazar, Sujapur and Baishnabnagar Assembly segments and on Monday, the tableaux was supposed to move to areas like Ratua, Harischandrapur, Chanchal and Malatipur, where voters of minority communities is close to 60 per cent. However, leaders of the saffron camp decided to suspend the yatra on Monday. “All senior BJP leaders of Malda are busy with preparations for Yogi Adityanath’s meeting and it was tough to engage them in the yatra. That is why it was called off on Monday,” said Sayantan Basu, a state general secretary of the BJP. Although Basu came up with such a clarification, party insiders said the lukewarm response that the yatra had received in most areas of Malda where it went led to such a decision. According to them, even when the tableaux went into areas where there is concentration of scheduled castes, tribals and other communities, the response was minimal. “This had left us wondering whether there would be any response from locals in the minority-dominated areas. In fact, there was an apprehension that it would turn out to be a poor show and would prompt other political parties to scoff at us. That is why it was decided to stop the yatra. On Tuesday, the tableaux will be taken to the public meeting venue in Gazole,” said a party leader. Such a decision by the party leadership however, has invoked strong discontent among party workers and supporters of these Assembly constituencies, said sources. It has also drawn flak from both Congress and Trinamul leaders who have pointed that the saffron camp’s strategy has failed. “The yatra has been a failure across north Bengal, and particularly in Malda. BJP’s plan to cancel the yatra in some areas indicates that they lack even a bare minimum support base in these Assembly seats,” said Dulal Sarkar, a district Trinamul leader. Mostaque Alam, the Congress MLA of Harischandrapur, said: “Their leaders and ministers might make tall claims that people from different communities are with them. But the ground reality is different. That BJP does not have support in minority belts has got exposed today.” Minority Morcha Leaders of the minority morcha of the BJP in Cooch Behar have demanded that at least one Muslim candidate should be fielded in any of the four general Assembly seats of the district at the upcoming elections. In Cooch Behar, there are nine Assembly constituencies among which five are reserved for scheduled castes. Siddique Ali Mian, the district president of the minority morcha, said they have submitted their demand in writing to the district and the state leadership of BJP. “In 2016, the party fielded Ali Hossain in Natabari seat. He is the state president of the minority morcha now. This year too, we want the party to field a person from the minority community in at least one seat,” said Mian. According to party insiders, there are a number of Muslim leaders in the saffron camp in Cooch Behar who work in different tiers. “Often, they have to face questions as to why they are with the BJP. If a Muslim candidate is chosen for a seat, it would be easier for them as well as for the party to campaign across the district that has a considerable minority population, including Rajbanshi Muslims,” said a source. District BJP leaders declined comments. “The selection of candidates would be done by the state and central leaders. We have forwarded the message to them,” said a district BJP leader. Additional reporting by Main Uddin Chisti in Cooch Behar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-179
02-03-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Glitches in CoWin 2.0 app hit vaccination drive||Thousands of senior citizens across Bengal on Monday had to wait for hours or left without a jab from the hospital as the CoWin 2.0 app faced glitches on a day the central health ministry started vaccinating those above 60 and people aged above 45 years with comorbidities against Covid-19. The vaccination of these select groups of citizens was kicked off when Prime Minister Narendra Modi took the jab at AIIMS in Delhi on Monday morning. Sources said elderly people who wanted to get the jab at government hospitals had the option of walk-in registration, while those opting to take the vaccination at private facilities were directed to pre-register the names using the CoWin 2.0. Officials said as part of the process senior citizens aged over 60 started queuing up at various hospitals from Monday morning to register their names but glitches in the CoWin 2.0 app halted the programme. “The government had directed that vaccination could be done only after registration through the CoWin 2.0 app. As a result, we asked the elderly people to wait. But when the glitches continued for over two and half hours, we requested them to return but that was protested by senior citizens,” said a health official in Birbhum. Following the agitation, we got in touch with the state health department seeking their nod to carry out the process offline. “At the day end, we received permission from the state to vaccinate the elderly people offline. Later we called them up again after 2.30 pm but the turnout was naturally low. We could vaccinate only 14 elderly people in the district on Monday against a target of 300,” said a senior health official in Birbhum. Like Birbhum, health officials in districts like East Burdwan, Purulia and Bankura faced similar problems. Officials in those districts said there was no way other than sending back senior citizens because many of them were above 70 or 80 years. “It was very inhuman for us to see very elderly people waiting at hospitals. Many of them started raising questions about why they were invited without preparation. What can I do? The CoWin 2.0 app did not work for the entire day,” said an official in Burdwan. Swapan Kumar Mondal, 72, a retired police officer, reached Bolpur subdivisional hospital around 10.30pm. But he had to wait for around two hours and later left the hospital as his vaccination was not done. However, he was later informed over the phone and came back at around 4pm to get a jab. “The nurses and health officials informed me about the problem. They asked me to go. I came again  as per request of the health staff. I understand the trouble but it is really a problem to visit a hospital  twice after waiting for two hours,” said Mondal. Sources in the state health department said there was clear direction from the health ministry not to vaccinate anyone without registering through the app. “However, we gave the permission after complaints from most hospitals started pouring in. We will conduct a meeting tonight to get rid of the glitches with the CoWin 2.0 app,” said a state health official. No Covid death Bengal on Monday, in a first since April last year, logged zero death from Covid-19. But the state logged 212 recoveries and 198 infections as a drop in its total active cases continued for the 126th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami last year. The total of active cases, which was 37,190 on Dashami (October 26), has fallen to 3,293. “Even in December, there were 50-60 daily deaths across the state and 20-plus in Calcutta. From there, we have reached a stage of no death from Covid,”  said a minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-179
02-03-2021||West Bengal||Tollywood actress Srabanti Chatterjee joins BJP||Tollywood actress Srabanti Chatterjee, who was seen close to the Trinamul Congress, joined the BJP on Monday. She accepted BJP the flag from state party president Dilip Ghosh and the minder for Bengal Kailash Vijavargiya. “This is a new journey for me. I’ve received a lot of love from people and it is my duty to work for the people who have loved me,” Srabanti said after her induction into the BJP. “I want to thank the BJP that they’ve considered me to be qualified enough to be a member of their family,” she added. Srabanti was one of the many popular faces from the film and the television industry who were regular at events organised by the Mamata Banerjee-led state government or even the Trinamul Congress. She had also campaigned for several state government schemes. That’s why her joining the saffron camp came as a surprise for many. “They’ve done a lot, but we will do more,” Srabanti said when asked if she thought that the incumbent ruling party of the state has failed to discharge its duties. She also added that contrary to what other actors who had joined the BJP in the past had alleged, it wasn’t necessary for artistes to be in favour of the Trinamul to work in the industry. Sources in Tollywood said a powerful producer in Tollywood, who was in the Trinamul camp till a few months ago, had played a key role in her switch to the saffron camp. A few days ago, actors Rudranil Ghosh, Yash Dasgupta and Hiran Chatterjee, who were previously close to Trinamul, had switched sides to the BJP under the influence of this producer. While Yash had refrained from accusing Trinamul of misrule, both Rudranil and Hiran had expressed their angst against the party. Srabanti has expressed her desire to contest the ensuing polls. However, she added that it would be the party’s decision to field her or not.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-179
02-03-2021||West Bengal||Assembly polls: Connecting voters via road and rail in north Bengal||The road and rail connectivity has emerged as a major topic of election campaign in north Bengal with the central and state governments led by the BJP and the Trinamul Congress vying with each other by making major announcements and inaugurating new projects and services to draw support in the region. While the BJP is keen on retaining its support base — it won seven out of eight Lok Sabha seats in north Bengal, Mamata Banerjee’s party is desperate for a revival. The region has 54 Assembly constituencies. “Both the parties are playing cards to woo different communities, right from Rajbanshis to adivasis and Gorkhas. But one of the principal issues which they have been highlighting consistently is the recent developments in the road and rail connectivity in the region, that is considered as a key strategic area of the country,” said a political observer. In north Bengal, the most important stretch in terms of national security is the “Siliguri Corridor” or a stretch that starts from the Islampur subdivision of North Dinajpur and ends in Siliguri of Darjeeling district. The width of the Indian sub-continent is slimmest in this stretch, with Bangladesh and Nepal on either side. In the past few months, the Trinamul government in the state and the BJP government at the Centre came up with a number of new announcements and launched new infrastructure services. The Telegraph lists some of the important initiatives made by both the sides. Following are some of the initiatives of the Mamata Banerjee government: ⚫ Construction of the 2.709km-long Joyee Bridge (probably the longest bridge in the state) over the Teesta river to connect Haldibari and Mekhliganj in Cooch Behar; ⚫ Construction of Asian Highways 2 and 48 which connect the Bangladesh border with Nepal and Bhutan, respectively. The fund was provided by the Centre. ⚫ Construction of a bridge over the Ganga to connect Bhutni, an islet in Malda district with around 90,000 residents. ⚫ Construction of a bridge over the Fulhar river reducing the distance between Malda and Katihar in the neighbouring state of Bihar by 90km. ⚫ Allocation of over 100 acres for the expansion of the Bagdogra airport. ⚫ The first Inland Container Depot or dry port of north Bengal at New Jalpaiguri, where cargo can be ferried via rail. Following are some of the initiatives of the Narendra Modi government: ⚫ Allocation of Rs 25,000 crore in the Union budget of the next fiscal for construction of the 675km Calcutta-Siliguri economic corridor ⚫ Introduction of goods train services along Haldibari-Chilahati (Bangladesh) route in December last year. From March 26, a bi-weekly passenger train service will commence between Siliguri and Dhaka ⚫ Construction of second road bridge over the Teesta along NH27 near Jalpaiguri. Work of a second rail bridge, parallel to the road bridge, is in progress. ⚫ A 10km-long road to bypass NH27 at Islampur in North Dinajpur has been opened for traffic recently. State tourism minister Gautam Deb, who is busy reaching out to people in his Assembly constituency, said north Bengal residents witnessed a series of development initiatives since 2011 in different sectors, one of which is the improvement in road connectivity. “The Centre is, however, delaying some major projects. They include widening of NH31 at Darjeeling More (the principal entry point to Siliguri) and construction of a bridge over the Teesta near Sevoke Bazaar,” the minister said. BJP leaders, however, said the four-laning of NH 27 — the principal highway that connects Northeast — had been expedited by the Centre since 2017. “Also, there have been major developments in the rail network and service. The electrification of tracks is almost complete in north Bengal and an international rail route has been opened. Infrastructure has been developed at a number of stations in the region,” said a BJP leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
02-03-2021||West Bengal||Murshidabad bride ties nuptial knot to books, families agree||Moyna Khatun, 24, a resident of Murshidabad’s Suti and an arts graduate from D.N. College in Kalyani University, has set an example in the minority-dominated area when she demanded 60 books as “mohor” (dowry that a groom needs to pay) to tie the nuptial knot on Monday. Although Moyna entered into an arranged marriage with Mizanur Rahman, 24, a geography graduate from Bhagalpur University in Bihar, family members of the bride said she had made it clear to her parents that she would demand books instead of traditional mohor when the two families discussed the duo’s marriage in January. “She had no interest in traditional mohor, which can go up to Rs 50,000 these days. Initially shocked and awed by her parents’ request, Mizanur’s family happily accepted the demand,” said a family member of Moyna. The groom’s family not only accepted the demand of Moyna, but decided to give some more books in addition to her demand. On Monday afternoon, Kidderpore village, the native place of Moyna, witnessed a rare sight as the marriage party was carrying cartons full of books, which would not be less than 80, a resident said. The cartons contained Quran in Bengali, besides works by Rabindranath Tagore, Nazrul Islam and Bibhutibhushan Bandhopadhyay. A member of the groom’s family said they would also be giving the bride an undisclosed amount of cash for personal expenses as they were “overjoyed” at her “unusual” request for books. Pictures of the unusual dowry have earned applause in the social media. Senior district officials said the unusual dowry had drawn attention as literacy rate among the minority girls in the remote corners of the district still remained a problem. “The government is trying hard to bring all girls to schools so that literacy rate increases among them. The stress is particularly on girls from minority communities living in remote areas. Moyna has set a great example. The government believes if a girl is imparted education, it will transmit to next generations. Girls like Moyna can be used as a poster girl for this purpose,” said a senior official. Politicians have also praised the initiative taken by Moyna. “It’s girls like Moyna who make us as well as their families proud,” said Samserganj MLA Amirul Haque, when contacted by this newspaper. Attendees already had a glimpse of the unusual mohor as it was kept in the centre of a room. “I have always been a bookworm since my childhood,” Moyna had told this reporter late on Sunday. The daughter of a farmer, Moyna had the opportunity to go to college despite being of modest means and says she was struck by the idea when she read news of a similar bridal request in Kerala a few years ago. “I knew then that this is how I would get married,” she added. Mizanur is also a man of letters and sources say he freelances for a number of Bengali periodicals in the area while helping his father’s ration business.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
02-03-2021||West Bengal||Whiff of witch hunt in charges on Visva-Bharati teacher||Visva-Bharati authorities framed charges against Rajesh K.V, an assistant professor of the department of drama and general secretary of Adhyapak Sabha, accusing him of visiting the academics and research section “almost every day” by neglecting his duty. There were allegations that he had been “targeted” for initially refusing to sign a petition prepared by the authorities against one of his colleagues. The chargesheet against Rajesh was signed by officiating registrar Ashok Mahato reads. “Shri Rajesh K. V. Assistant Professor, Department of Rabindra Sangit, Dance and Drama, Sangit Bhavana comes to Academic and Research Section almost every day from 3.30PM to 6.00PM neglecting his duties at his department and Bhavana. These are prejudicial to the interest of the university and in terms of CCS(CCA) Rule and provisions of the Visva-Bharati Act 1951 and statues made thereunder and such kind of acts may be regarded as misconduct,” the chargesheet signed by officiating registrar Ashok Mahato reads. Rajesh, popular on campus as Rajesh Venugopal, becomes the second teacher to face the wrath of varsity officials after Sudipta Bhattacharyya, the president of Visva-Bharati University Faculty Association and a whistleblower against activities by vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty, was suspended in January. On February 26, all teachers of English department were allegedly “confined” by authorities in a bid to grab a copy of a mass petition written to President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi informing them about the state-of-affairs of the varsity. The charge was later rejected by the varsity. The action against Rajesh raised questions about the varsity’s recent activities to gag voices of dissent as it was the first case of any teacher being charge-sheeted for visiting the varsity’s academic and research department. “It is unheard of that a teacher could be questioned for visiting a department associated with academic and research. I have been working here for around 20 years and never heard of such a ridiculous reason. We always visit the academic and research department. What is wrong if someone sits and spends time with senior officials,” said a varsity teacher. Officials said Rajesh was first served a showcause notice and charges were framed against him on Saturday that was served to him on Monday. Framing charges is a step forward to punish any employee under act and statues of Visva-Bharati and service act for central government employees. A teacher in Sangit Bhavana said in the last routine, Rajesh had not been allotted any class in his department between 3.30pm and 6.30pm. “Rajesh stayed here all through the pandemic even though the campus was closed. He joined in 2012 but we never found him neglecting duty,” said a colleague of Rajesh. Sources said in mid-February the VC had called a meeting where Rajesh was asked to sign on a paper accusing a woman teacher of the department of “misconduct”. Rajesh had initially refused to sign on the dotted lines but was again summoned after two days when the authorities allegedly forced him to sign. “Rajesh told me that he had signed the paper under force amid threats that he would face professional hazards,” said a teacher. Rajesh, however, refused to comment when this newspaper got in touch with him for his reaction on the issue. Visva-Bharati’s public relations officer Anirban Sircar did not take calls and nor did he respond to messages. on action taken against Rajesh K V when contacted through text message.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
02-03-2021||West Bengal||Plaster from ceiling of govt high school falls on teachers and students||Plaster from the ceiling of a government high school staff room collapsed from a height of 13ft on the heads of two students and two teachers, grievously injuring one of them, at Dhangbhara near Salboni in West Midnapore around 11.30am on Monday. The injured students and teachers of Sashibhushan High School had to be rushed to the local health centre. One of them was administered four stitches as he had suffered a deep cut in the head. The incident had raised questions about the quality of construction as the building is less than six-months’ old. Sources said the building was constructed under the Paschimanchal Unnayan Parishad scheme approved in the 2018-2019 state budget. The building was completed in September 2020 under the monitoring of the panchayat samiti. Sources said a chunk of plaster from a 5ft radius of the ceiling collapsed. Sandip Singha, member of the Salboni panchayat samiti and in-charge of the construction, said an explanation had been sought from the contractor following the collapse. “This building is not even six-months’ old. This has happened because inferior materials were used to construct the building,” said headmaster Tapas Bhattacharya. “We had asked the contractor in February last year to improve the materials but he didn’t listen to us. And this is the price we had to pay for lapses on part of the contractor,” the headmaster added. Responding to the charges of lapses in construction, Singha said: “It is a new building and the incident is being probed by our engineer. The contractor has been asked to explain the reason for the collapse and if found guilty his security deposit will be forfeited. He will also have to repair the damage.” Asked, district inspector of schools Chapeswar Sardar said he was responding to the incident and “would look into how the incident occurred”. Sources said all four victims were stable as of Monday evening, including the teacher who was seriously injured in the head.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
02-03-2021||West Bengal||Darjeeling hills to host legislators for Sustainable Mountain Development Summit||The Darjeeling hills are ready to host legislators from across Himalayan states and Union territories in India later this year for the Sustainable Mountain Development Summit. The Integrated Mountain Initiative (IMI), a civil society-led forum, has decided to pass on the baton to its unit Darjeeling Himalayan Initiative to host the 10th edition of the summit, which is one of its kind initiative involving nine states and two Union territories. “The Mountain Legislators’ Meet and the Indian Himalayan Youth Summit are two events which are integral components of the annual summit. We will be organising the events at Darjeeling and Kalimpong,” said Praful Rao, the president of the DHI. Governments of mountain states have been active participants in the deliberations of the IMI. The first such summit was held in Uttarkhand capital Nainital in 2011 and over the decade, the IMI has been able to influence policy decisions on mountain issues. P.D. Rai, the president of the IMI, said the body played a key role in setting up a working group in the Planning Commission during the finalisation of the 12 five-year plan in 2011. “A separate division on mountain issues was also set up by the ministry of environment and forest,” said Rai, who is also a former MP from Sikkim. Many believe the initiative by the forum led to the formation of B.K. Chaturvedi Committee to look into all aspects of development in the mountain region. “The outcome of an international seminar (organised by the IMI) which was taken to the parliamentary standing committee on water resources has led to many outcomes on issues of water security and also setting up of a centre for glacial studies at Sikkim University with a grant of Rs 10 crore,” said Rai. Last Wednesday, a “passing of the baton” ceremony was held in Kalimpong where Rai handed over the baton to Rao mandating the Darjeeling unit to plan, execute and host the summit. “The manner in which the event would be held would also depend on the Covid-19 situation but we will organise the event both in Darjeeling and Kalimpong,” said Rao. The theme of this year’s summit is “One health and resilient mountains”. The dates are yet to be finalised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
02-03-2021||West Bengal||Four youths get life term for murdering friend||A court in Jalpaiguri on Monday sentenced four youths to life imprisonment for murdering their friend around nine years ago. The convicts are Bhaichung Sherpa, Nitesh Sharma, Dawa Tamang and Vivek Pradhan. Dawa is a resident of Pradhannagar in Siliguri and the other three are from Gangtok. The trio from Sikkim, along with their friend Siddharth Gurung, had reached Siliguri in August 2012. Dawa joined them and all the five then reached the New Jalpaiguri area and checked into a hotel. On the second day, they shifted to another hotel. “On August 22, 2012, the quartet who has been convicted of the murder, checked out of the hotel. They told the manager and other staff members that Siddharth was sleeping in the room and they should wake him up in the afternoon. The staff went and called Siddharth, but he didn’t respond. The employees called up police who found that Siddharth had been strangled,” said a source. The police soon arrested all the four. During interrogation, they admitted that they had killed Siddharth to grab his cellphone, laptop and cash. Government lawyer Subrata Sarkar said the additional district and sessions first court had conducted the trial. “In total, 21 witnesses deposed in the case. The court awarded the death sentence today,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
02-03-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal Muslims seek newly constituted board||An organisation of north Bengal Muslims with considerable clout in the community has demanded that a newly constituted board for the socio-economic development of Nasya Sheikhs be converted into the one for all Muslims in the region. The Mamata Banerjee government had constituted the West Bengal Nasya Sheikh Development Board through a notification on February 22. The Nasya Sheikhs or Rajbanshi Muslims number around 35 lakh in north Bengal. Abul Hossain, the secretary of the Uttarbanga Anagrasar Muslim Sangram Samiti, said the Nasya Sheikh board wouldn’t benefit the entire Muslim community which belongs to different sub-castes. “Hence, we want the state government to change the board’s name and convert it into one for all backward Muslims in north Bengal,” said Hossain. Karimul Islam, another leader of the samiti, said there were 110-odd sub-castes of Muslims in north Bengal. “If the board’s mandate and purpose are amended, it can work for all Muslims. We have been raising the demand for long,” he said. The demand that has been raised ahead of the Assembly elections is being seen as an attempt to mount pressure on Mamata Banerjee and her party. The demand has drawn flak from members of the Nasya Sheikh board. “The state government has constituted the board for our community. Some people are trying to politicise the issue ahead of the elections. They have never spoken for us,” said Bazlay Rehman, a member of the board. Altogether, around one crore Muslims, including 35 lakh Nasya Sheikhs, live in north Bengal. “One of the key topics of discussion among political pundits is Muslims who account for around 30 per cent of total voters in the state. New forces like the ISF and the AIMIM are foraying into the political arena of Bengal and changing equations. In such a context, the new demand will mount pressure on Trinamul,” said an observer. He noted that the model code of conduct was in force and the state government couldn’t meet the demand till the elections got over. Trinamul leaders are, however, confident that the minority community in north Bengal would not join hands with any other party. “We have communicated the demand for a socio-economic development board for all Muslims in north Bengal to our senior leaders. We are confident that the minority community will stand by Trinamul across north Bengal,” said Dablu Mohammad, the Jalpaiguri district coordinator Trinamul’s minority cell.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
02-03-2021||North East||Priyanka Gandhi eyes youth, women in poll-bound Assam ||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday tried to reach out to the youth and women in poll-bound Assam on the first day of her two-day trip to mobilise support for the Congress-led seven-party alliance. The AICC general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh addressed two meetings, one for the youth in Lakhimpur, and another for women self-help groups and garden workers in Gohpur, groups which are being assiduously wooed by the ruling BJP-led dispensation. Draped in a purple saree, Priyanka, in her short and crisp speech, tried to convey to her target audience what was wrong under the present regime and that they need to judiciously use their vote, an “important weapon” in their hands, if they want to “secure” their future and that of the state, both of which have been passing through tough times under the BJP-led regime. Polling in Assam will be held in three phases — March 27, April 1 and 6. Counting will take place on May 2. Launching a state-wide protest against growing unemployment in Lakhimpur, she told a gathering of youth, “You are the state’s biggest strength. I have come here to launch the programme for you all. The protest will be held in every district and block of the state. You need to know your leader. You have to see through them. If you can’t see the truth, you cannot secure your future or of Assam. They (BJP-led government) had promised 25 lakh jobs but they could not provide even 80,000 in five years.” Assam has around 20 lakh registered educated unemployed out of a population of 3.2 crore plus. Priyanka further said, “I want to tell you one thing: Your future is in your hand. Try to know your responsibility and take charge. There is a lot of opportunities here — your art and handicraft can be taken across the world but that is not happening. This is because the government in Assam or at the Centre is not working in your interests... they don’t understand your culture. The truth is before you: Elect those who promise but don’t deliver or elect those who have worked for you, have laid the foundation for industries, created jobs.” She also touched upon the issue of galloping price rise and how the government policies benefited a few industrialists. “I have one request — think before you vote . This is a vote not for any party but a vote for Assam, a vote to save Assam, a vote to save your future. Vote for the alliance, vote for Congress and save yourself and Assam. Secure your future,” she said. At Gohpur, Priyanka, in another short speech, appealed to the gathering of women from tea community and SHGs, to make their vote count. “With elections round the corner, they are distributing scootys... helping the SHGs but what were they doing in the last five years ... Your life is a struggle. You can bear pain but that does not mean you will put up with atrocities, you will stay silent. Crime against women is rising in the state. The government has done nothing to stop them,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-21
02-03-2021||Opinion||First shot: Congress-Left rally||An impressive rally — the turnout at the first public meeting of the coalition featuring the Left Front, the Congress and the Indian Secular Front was sizeable — need not translate into electoral gain. Nonetheless, several intriguing signals emerged on account of the gathering. Bengal’s assembly election is being largely seen as a two-way contest between the ruling Trinamul Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party that has emerged as the principal challenger. Yet, Sunday’s public meeting proved that the third fledgling alternative, featuring the Congress, the Left and its new ally, may have pockets of influence, especially in minority-dominated areas. This is because the ISF is likely to concentrate its efforts on mobilizing the Muslim vote that, some estimate, could decide the outcome in numerous seats. Ironically, the ISF’s perceived strength could weaken its allies. The Congress is worried about the ISF cutting into its traditional vote-base in North Bengal: its talks of seat-sharing with the ISF has run into rough weather. The Communist Party of India (Marxist), too, knows that the Muslim vote could be crucial to its resurgence. The squabblings within the allies need not broaden the smiles in the camps of their rivals. The Trinamul Congress would be keeping an anxious eye on a possible split in the minority vote. Although the BJP is likely to gain as a result of such a fracture and the counter-mobilization that it would engineer among orthodox Hindus, an energized Left could also mean that some segments of voters, who had traded red for saffron, may be willing to return to their original party of choice. These inferences signify both continuities and departures. For instance, the fracas between the Congress and the ISF shows that competitive politics around the Muslim vote remains unabated on the problematic assumption that the community votes en bloc. This may no longer hold true. Traditional constituencies — Hindus, Muslims and caste groups — are increasingly transforming themselves into subsets with specific aspirations. Politics, too, is aligning itself around these microcosmic mobilizations. Bengal is also experiencing these transformations that are likely to make electoral contests intense and unpredictable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-64
02-03-2021||Opinion||Long waited: Nirav Modi to be extradited||Sir — I was glad to read that the jeweller, Nirav Modi, who is wanted for fraud and money laundering in the Rs 14,000 crore Punjab National Bank financial scam, will be extradited to India (“Blow to Nirav bid to beat extradition”, Feb 26). The judge, Samuel Goozee, who presided over the trial, said that Modi’s extradition orders are in compliance with human rights laws and that, if he so wishes, he has the right to appeal against the decision. However, the judge also indicated that the case for the high-profile jeweller to face trial in India was strong as there were clearly links between him and ‘other connivers’ including bank officials who were guilty of approving the letters of undertaking supplied by Modi that facilitated the clearance of huge unpaid loans. The nearly two-year-long legal battle follows Modi’s arrest on an extradition warrant in March 2019 in the United Kingdom. His multiple attempts at seeking bail have been repeatedly turned down, both at the magistrates’ as well as at the high court level, as he was deemed to be a flight risk. The diamantaire is the subject of two sets of criminal proceedings — the Central Bureau of Investigation case relating to a large-scale fraud upon PNB through obtaining illegal letters of undertaking or loan agreements, and the Enforcement Directorate case relating to the laundering of the proceeds of that fraud. He is also facing two additional charges of evidence tampering and intimidation of witnesses, which have been added to the CBI case. Undoubtedly, his pending trial in India will be subject to much attention. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — After a long-drawn battle, it seems that the fugitive jeweller, Nirav Modi, will finally be extradited to India and tried before the courts in the country. He was arrested two years ago in the UK and is facing charges of fraud, money laundering and intimidation of witnesses in the Punjab National Bank scam case. Once criminals flee their home country, it can take years for the government to have them extradited, let alone put them on trial. Many such individuals — the former chairman of the Indian Premier League, Lalit Modi, is among them — continue to evade justice owing to ambiguities in the criminal justice system. Thus, the decision of the Westminster Magistrates’ Court to allow the extradition of Nirav Modi to India is welcome. Ultimately, this massive financial scam was possible because of corruption among bank officials as well as loopholes in the banking system in India. It is hoped that the jeweller will be brought to justice.Anshita Rochwani,Ujjain Take care Sir — It is no surprise that working from home and the lack of social gatherings during the global fight against the coronavirus have left many people in Japan feeling increasingly stressed and lonely (“Isolate the problem”, Feb 28). The administration is of the opinion that pandemic-linked isolation is primarily responsible for the first uptick in suicides in the country in the last 11 years. Thus, to battle the malaise, the Japanese government, following in the footsteps of the UK, created a loneliness countermeasures office in its cabinet earlier this month to fight problems such as suicide and child poverty. It is a matter of grave concern that Japan reported nearly 880 female suicides just in October 2020 — a 70 per cent surge compared to October 2019. The government has also set up a task force which will see different departments work together to investigate the impact of loneliness. It has been reported that Japan has the highest suicide rate out of any country in the Group of Seven leading industrial nations, at 14.9 suicides per 1,00,000 individuals. The UK was the first country to appoint a loneliness minister in 2018, after a 2017 report indicated that more than nine million people in the island nation revealed that they often or always felt lonely. However, it does not seem that there has been much progress. The country has gone through three loneliness ministers in three years. The government in Australia, too, has considered creating a similar position. The coronavirus crisis appears to have aggravated the problem of isolation and loneliness, with remote work and restrictions on human contact hitting those who live alone particularly hard. The editorial rightly concludes that India must study these templates of intervention to design effective, compassionate models that are likely to be efficient under Indian conditions. Loneliness is increasingly becoming a problem in our country as well. S.S. Paul,Nadia Ominous sign Sir — As the people of the United States of America voted Joe Biden to power after Donald Trump’s tumultuous presidency, it seemed that a dark chapter in American politics might be coming to an end. However, recently at a conference in Florida, Trump, reiterating his earlier claims that the 2020 election was stolen from him, hinted at the possibility of running for the top post in the next presidential elections in 2024. The Biden administration is already facing criticism for its decision to order air strikes in Syria. Unless the Democrats solidify their presence among the public, the next elections might not be in their favour. Anamika Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-64
02-03-2021||Opinion||Big fight looms: inflation targeting||No one relishes the prospect of a battle royale between the government and the monetary authorities. But one could boil over later this month when the flexible inflation targeting framework that was framed in 2016 to underpin monetary policymaking in the country comes up for review. The six-member monetary policy committee has a mandate to maintain inflation at 4 per cent, with a tolerance band of 2 per cent on either side of the median rate. The MPC has broadly managed to hold inflation within this range between October 2016 and March 2020. The median inflation during this period has been 3.6 per cent. But there have been times when things have got a bit rough: inflation peaked at 7.6 per cent in January 2020 but it also plunged to a low of 1.5 per cent in June 2017. During the current Covid-blighted year, inflation stubbornly ruled above the upper bound of 6 per cent continuously between April and November 2020, which would normally be treated as a “failure” of the monetary policymakers to deliver on their mandate. The Narendra Modi-led government is extremely sensitive to criticism of its management of the economy. A surge in inflation is always a deep cause for worry because it can seriously dent public support for the government’s brand of policy reforms.  The government has been looking to overhaul the inflation targeting framework, and has raised the possibility of using a new yardstick for measurement. The Reserve Bank of India is clearly upset with the move. It put out a new report last week that argued against any change. It posited that the repetitive supply shocks and elevated inflation expectations made it all the more necessary to persevere with the current numerical framework for the next five years. The report, which has been prepared by the central bank’s experts, goes on to argue that it would not be wise to tinker with the existing formula at a time when the pandemic has left permanent scars on the global economy. Two interesting suggestions have been made. The first is that the failure of the MPC should be construed only when it is unable to hold inflation within the 2-6 per cent range for four quarters rather than three at present. The Modi government has been obsessed with the idea of creating a five-trillion-dollar economy by 2024-25 — and this has opened up a fierce debate on the growth versus inflation dynamic. The report reminds the government that the trend GDP growth has worked out to 6.5 per cent during the FIT regime when headline inflation has averaged 3.9 per cent — another reason why it should stick with the current formula. The government, however, seems to be in no mood to relent and could try to browbeat the monetary policymakers to accept sweeping changes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-64
02-03-2021||Opinion||When they met their mothers||How many of us ever imagine our mothers as young girls? Are they forever just mothers to us? The Chinese are asking themselves these questions thanks to a new movie that’s become the biggest hit of the Chinese New Year holiday. This time, many people heeded the government’s advice and stayed home to avoid spreading Covid-19 once again, instead of travelling back to their home towns to celebrate New Year with their families. Movie theatres made a killing — not only did viewers increase, tickets, too, were priced high because theatres were allowed to operate at only 75 per cent of their capacity and had to have Covid-19 preventive measures in place. Hi, Mom, which released on February 12, New Year’s Day, is about a daughter so overwrought by her mother’s sudden death that she travels back in time to when her mother was young, determined to give her a better life. The comedy, which left most female viewers in tears, is semi-autobiographical: the director, a well-known comedienne, lost her mother in an accident when she was just 19. By the time she reached home from college, her mother was in the crematorium. Now 39, the daughter plays the mother in the film. This is her directorial debut, and has made her the most successful woman director in China and the third most successful in the world. The film has been praised for its realistic depiction of life in the ancient military town of Xiangyang in the 80s. That was four years after Mao’s death, when China was just opening up its economy. But what’s made it a hit is the portrayal of the mother-daughter bond. The director has said she had wanted to show the happy times she spent with her mother, and hoped that the film would make viewers call up their mothers as soon as they finished watching it. The film has done more than that: it’s led to an outpouring of love for mothers. People have been posting pictures on the internet of their mothers when the latter were young. Seeing these pictures has led to a shocked acknowledgement of how much young women today rely on artificial aids to look good in photographs. More interesting, however, is the online survey that’s being conducted: what would you have told your mother if you could have met her before she got married? Many have answered: “[D]on’t marry Dad.” Mao’s revolution in 1949 was supposed to have liberated women from feudal bondage and brought about equality between the sexes; “Women hold up half the sky”, was his famous saying. But when young women in today’s China say they would have advised their mothers to be “independent and confident, don’t listen to everything Dad says, and don’t become a housewife” or, to “live for yourself” and not give up on their dreams just to get married, you wonder to what extent the generation that grew up under Mao achieved equality. Obviously, today’s young women consider themselves more independent than their mothers. Yet, even today, when an entire generation has grown to middle age after Mao’s death, girls start worrying about being labelled “left-behind” if they don’t marry by 30. But few of them give up their dreams for marriage. Funnily enough, the section to which the film is dedicated, that is mothers, is not quite so taken in by it. Some mothers say the depiction of life in the 80s is too romanticized; others haven’t appreciated the modern humour that characterizes the film.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-64
02-03-2021||Opinion||Shades of difference||By staging a coup on February 1, Myanmar’s commander-in-chief, Min Aung Hlaing, ended Myanmar’s brief and tenuous one-decade experiment with democracy. He claimed that the military takeover would avert widespread protests on opposite sides of the political divide — those in support of the claims of election fraud and those in support of the elected government. The National League for Democracy had won 396 out of 476 seats in the November elections in 2020, gaining the mandate to govern for another five years. The Union Solidarity and Development Party, founded by retired generals in June 2010, won only 33 seats. With a population of nearly 54 million, Myanmar, a land in which the majority adhering to the Theravada tradition of Buddhism coexists with ethnic and religious minorities, is no stranger to military rule. Except for the time periods of 1948 to 1958 and 2010 to 2021, the military, known as the Tatmadaw, has governed the country with absolute control for 73 years of its republican journey. Apart from fighting internal insurgent groups, the military has also monopolized the political economy by running enterprises like breweries and receiving licensing fees for the lucrative jade mining in the north. Externally, the reactions in the last one month were along the expected lines governed by geopolitical considerations. However, internally, the trend line reflects strong discontinuities from the previous episodes of military rule in Myanmar. Externally, the condemnation of the military coup from the United States of America and other Western players like the United Kingdom, which usually lead the United Nations Security Council initiatives on Myanmar, was instant. Several Southeast Asian countries like Cambodia, Vietnam, Laos, Brunei, the Philippines and Thailand stayed neutral whereas regional heavyweights, such as Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore, expressed concern and hoped for a return to democratic rule. Outside the Southeast Asian region, India, a neighbour with its own operational dependence on the military in the border areas, reacted in a calibrated manner with the aim not to disturb its overall interests. Japan, with vast, varied investments across Myanmar, was relatively vocal in criticizing the military leadership. China, whose initial reaction was more along the lines of its traditional realpolitik adjustment, agreed to a UNSC statement that called for the “immediate release of all those detained” and stressed “the need to uphold democratic institutions and processes, refrain from violence, and fully respect human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law.” Apart from being one of the largest investors in Myanmar, China enjoys a complex relationship with the Tatmadaw, which is suspicious of its role in internal insurgencies. Chinese weaponry is circulating among various insurgent ethnic armed groups in Myanmar. In 2010-11, China was quick to sense the direction of the wind in Myanmar. After ignoring the NLD leader, Aung San Suu Kyi, for years, China’s ambassador in Myanmar met her in December 2011. The NLD rule was marked by a greater, intricate engagement of Myanmar with China. Internally, the situation is far from static, and the reactions are notable. First, with at least 40 per cent of its population being internet-users, the mobilization of the younger generation has become easier and spontaneous. The creative protests on the streets include murals and satire and they have exposed the military leadership before the international community. There were political activists who used satire even before 2010. The celebrated comedian, Maung Thura, popularly known as Zarganar, was infamously sentenced under different charges for 59 years. He was released in 2011 as part of the process to release political prisoners that won international acclaim. The power of social media is now making the internal protests more visible to the outside world. Bluetooth apps, such as Bridgefy, are being widely used as the military has shut down the internet intermittently. There is also a civil disobedience movement by civil servants. But the developments are unlikely to change the course of the military leadership immediately, sap the energies of the military administration and challenge the military’s narrative of stability, normalcy and control. Second, in 2021, any military repression to quell mass-protests through crackdowns will be instantly exposed, both internally and externally, because of the presence of smartphones. This is unlike the repression of 1988 and 2007. At least 3,000 deaths were reported in 1988. In 2007, the Myanmar State media reported that nine people had been killed though this number was widely disputed for gross underreporting. Third, protests are taking place in a situation in which corporate global brands are increasingly sensitive to risks to their reputation, particularly among the client base of millennials and Generation Z. Nike stood in solidarity with Black Lives Matter. In Myanmar too, the Japanese beer giant, Kirin, decided to pull out of a partnership in Myanmar that it runs with a conglomerate linked with Myanmar Economic Holdings, which is overseen by Min Aung Hlaing. Four, the military was expected to exploit the ethnic and religious fault lines within Myanmar, including those on the Rohingya issue, to justify its rule. Myanmar’s minorities form at least 35 per cent of the population. While areas like the Wa state adjoining China, which enjoys de facto independence, were aloof from coup-related developments, reports suggest that in other, non-Bamar areas, such as Kachin, Kayah, Karen, Chin, Rakhine, Mon and Shan, anti-coup rallies have taken place. This despite the fact that in its first term (2015-2020), the NLD had failed to inspire the minorities with the national reconciliation process. Five, the coup takes place when the Tatmadaw is seen by the international community as chiefly responsible for one of the biggest man-made crisis of this century. At least 6,700 Rohingya Muslims, according to a Médecins Sans Frontières finding, were killed in Rakhine in August 2017 and over 700,000 escaped to neighbouring Bangladesh. It was not surprising that after the coup, one of the first statements of the military leadership was to assure the international community that it would abide by the NLD government’s commitments on the repatriation of the Rohingya from Bangladesh to Myanmar. The process is presently in a stalemate because of various reasons, including the lack of suitable conditions for the Rohingya to return. Without the buffer of a civilian government, which had defended the military in the International Court of Justice, Hague, in December 2019, there is the possibility of greater resolute international efforts to indict the Tatmadaw’s leadership that is perceived to be the chief perpetrator of the Rohingya crisis in 2017 within the scope of ongoing mechanisms. Finally, on the basis of previous experience, there is a realization that the evisceration of the military from the country’s power structure will not happen anytime soon. Suu Kyi, who is 75 years old, is still the undisputed leader of the majority Bamar population. The protesters seem to be prepared for a long haul. A more diffused, ethnically diverse and relatively younger leadership with a blueprint for the country’s political future that could share the burden of the old guard and take over the leadership baton in a few years is the need of the hour. Indeed, it would have to factor in both successes as well as shortcomings of the three-decade-long efforts of the NLD leadership. The author was a member of the United Nations secretary-general’s Good Offices on Myanmar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-64
02-03-2021||Jharkhand||New weekly train to Maharashtra via Tatanagar||The South Eastern Railway (SER) on Tuesday announced a new weekly special train between Santragachi and Hazur Sahib Nanded in Maharashtra via Tatanagar railway station, which will start its journey on March 5 from the western state, and on March 7 from Bengal. "The special train is being introduced keeping in view the demand of passengers. The train will continue to run till further notification, " said Sanjay Ghosh, chief public relations officer of the South Eastern Railway. As per a schedule released by Garden Reach, headquarters of South Eastern Railway, the 02768 Santragachi-Hazur Sahib Nanded Special, leaving Santragchi every Wednesday at 2.45 pm, will reach Hazur Sahib Nanded at 7.10 pm the next day. The train will reach Tatanagar at 7 pm. In the opposite direction, the train will leave every Monday at 3.25 pm and will arrive at Santragachi at 7.20 pm the next day. It will reach Tatanagar at 3 pm. The train with two AC three- tier, nine sleeper class and four general second class coaches will have stoppages at Kharagpur, Tatanagar, Chakradharpur, Rourkela, Jharsuguda, Bilsapur, Raipur, Durg, Gondia, Nagpur, Majri, Wani, Pimpalkhuti, Adilabad, Kinwat, Himayatnagar and Mudkhed between Santragachi and Hazur Sahib Nanded. Welcoming the decision general secretary of Chota Nagpur Passenger Association Arun Tiwari, said , "Apart from numerous passengers who travel between the two destinations throughout the year, the weekly special train will also help in clearing the huge rush of passengers witnessed during the summer vacation." Passengers have been asked to strictly follow all the health protocols before and during journey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-125
02-03-2021||Jharkhand||Ratan Tata inaugurates new wing at Naval Tata hockey cradle ||A new building at the Naval Tata Hockey Academy (NTHA) was jointly inaugurated by Tata Sons emeritus chairman Ratan N Tata and chairman N Chandrasekaran in the steel city on Tuesday. Tata Steel CEO and MD, TV Narendran and vice-president (corporate services), Chanakya Chaudhary were among those present at the inaugural ceremony. Senior Tata Steel officials briefed both Tata and Chandrasekaran about the operational aspects of the academy and the building. The two-storey building boasts a hostel for 52 cadets (boys), rooms for 9 coaches, gymnasium, teaching room, Hall of Fame, office, dining and kitchen, infirmary, massage room, a board room with excellent view of the turf and also a viewing balcony for about 20 people. First two phases of the project have been completed and very soon accommodation for 52 girl cadets and a practice field will be added as part of the third phase. The foundation stone for NTHA was laid by Ratan Tata, also chairman of Tata Trusts, on March 2, 2018. The cradle has been set up through a joint collaboration between Tata Steel, Tata Trusts and Indian Steel & Wire Products (ISWP), a subsidiary of Tata Steel, with a vision to professionalise grassroots hockey in the talent-rich tribal belts of Jharkhand and Odisha. Spread over 10 acres, the academy brings world-class facilities that include a Fédération Internationale de Hockey (FIH) global quality artificial turf with floodlights, international coaches, nutritionists as well as mental and physical trainers to provide high-performance hockey training. Netherlands-based Bovelander Hockey Academy led by legendary drag-flicker Floris Jan Bovelander, former Olympian and assistant coach of the Dutch national team, has been engaged to develop the training curriculum for delivering high-performance coaching. A three-tier structure has been set-up starting with a grassroots programme for 10 to 12 years age group followed by training at the District Level Regional Development Centres (RDCs) and finally getting selected into the academy at an age of 14 years to 17 years. The first batch of 28 boys was selected from the villages of Simdega, Khunti and West Singhbhum districts. They have undergone a year-long programme of rigorous training provided by Dutch coaches and Indian hockey legend Sandeep Singh. Presently, NTHA Jamshedpur has 32 boy cadets. Girl cadets will be inducted towards the end of 2021. Over the past 3 years, NTHA has successfully resulted in 17 players representing their respective states at various national level tournaments. The academy aims to become a “Centre of Excellence” for hockey by creating a professional environment that enables young players to achieve their full potential. Players emerging from the cradle are free to pursue the game at the highest levels - playing for the country as well as clubs around the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-125
02-03-2021||Jharkhand||Budget will be pro-people, says Hemant||Chief minister Hemant Soren has assured the people of Jharkhand that Wednesday's state budget would be one that will put the state on fast-paced growth and address concerns of every section of society. Speaking to reporters at the Vidhan Sabha on Tuesday, Hemant said, “While the final contents will be known once our finance minister tables the budget in the Assembly tomorrow (Wednesday), but let me assure you that we have taken the ground realities of the state into account while framing it. The budget will be pro-people and will be aimed towards taking the state ahead. We have already dedicated this year to job creation.” Finance minister Rameshwar Oraon said the focus would be on key drivers of the growth. “The state government’s focus will be on priority sectors such as health, food, clothing, education and jobs. Unlike the Union budget, which was for capitalists, we will come up with a people-friendly budget,” he assured. In the Assembly, MLAs of the Opposition BJP resorted to disruptions on Tuesday, forcing Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto to adjourn the House twice. As the House began at 11am, BJP MLAs walked into the Well to demand a debate on the recruitment policy, accusing the state government of scrapping their initiative arbitrarily. On Monday, too, the issue dominated the BJP’s agenda . Opposition MLAs descended on the Well of the House, raised "Jai Shri Ram" slogans, banged on benches and performed parikrama (going around n circles), forcing the Speaker to cut short Question Hhour and adjourn the proceedings till 12 noon. Soon after the House resumed, BJP MLAs again resorted to protests over the recruitment policy leading to chaos during Zero Hour. BJP MLA from Hazaribagh Manish Jaiswal then sought answers from the chief minister over deaths due to kerosene blasts in his district. He demanded compensation for those killed (four) and injured (16) and sought action against the guilty. Later, the chief minister told the House that compensation of Rs 4 lakh would be given to the kin of the deceased. Amid the din, the Assembly was adjourned again till 2 pm. The ruckus continued later when Ranchi MLA C. P. Singh tore up a copy of the government order removing him as senate member of Shyama Prasad Mukherjee University in Ranchi, days after appointing him. All BJP MLAs later staged a walkout in protest. Singh’s action prompted Congress’s MLA from Poriyahat Pradeep Yadav to move a motion to expel him for the rest of the session. Criticizing the Opposition’s conduct, Hemant later told reporters, “The BJP calls itself a party with principles and morals. But their conduct in the House speaks otherwise. In a democracy, a healthy debate in the House is the need of the hour, not disruptions. I am sure the Speaker has taken note of their conduct for appropriate action.” But the BJP's chief whip, Bokaro MLA Biranchi Narayan, said that the onus of conducting the House lay with the government. “We are raising issues that are important for the people of the state. It is for the government to decide if they wish to run the House by answering questions raised by us or continue to avoid them,” he said. Economic survey projects state growth at 9.5% in 2021-22 The Economic Survey 2021-22 tabled by state finance minister Oraon on Tuesday projected a growth of 9.5 per cent in Jharkhand in 2021-22 fiscal and pegged per capita income at Rs 57,863. The GSDP is expected to contract by 6.9 per cent, it added. “The real GSDP is expected to grow at the rate of 9.5 per cent and nominal GSDP by 13.6 per cent in the next fiscal over the current fiscal year,” it said. Supplementary budget On Tuesday, the House passed the state government’s second supplementary budget of Rs 7323 crore with voice vote a day after it was tabled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-125
02-03-2021||Jharkhand||Hockey tournament in memory of martyred cop starts in Latehar||A two-day hockey tournament in memory of martyred cop Novesh Munda, who lost his life fighting maoists, kicked off at the Mahuadanr block in Latehar district on Tuesday generating a feeling of festivity, police said. SP Latehar Prashant Anand said a total of eight teams comprising boys and girls from Munda’s village, Durup, participated in the tournament aimed to pay respect to all those who have lost their lives in the extremist-hit Mahuadanr. The games are being played at the ground of the St Joseph High School Mahuadanr. “This tournament will drive our point home that police headquarters or the district police will never forget its brave cops and officials who died fighting rebels. The young participants will know the value of martyrdom this way,” he said. The police have given full hockey kits to the eight teams, which include jerseys, boots and hockey sticks. The tournament, Anand said, is part of the ‘Abhiyan Sampark’ of Jharkhand Police, which preaches that death is not the end of everything. “This is a small effort by us to help get connected to people who pay us rich dividends in terms of public trust and confidence,” the police officer said. Sub-divisional police officer Pratibhan Singh said the tournament has drawn a huge crowd of the students, all of who are showing Covid-appropriate behaviour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-125
02-03-2021||Jharkhand||5 Jharkhand leaders in Congress poll team for Bengal, Assam||Congress has entrusted five Jharkhand leaders, including two cabinet ministers, with key responsibilities in poll bound states of Bengal and Assam,  state party officials said on Tuesday. According to a notification issued by the All India Congress Committee (AICC), state health minister and Jamshedpur West MLA Banna Gupta has been appointed poll observer for Purulia district in Bengal. Other observers for Bengal include Mahagama MLA Deepika Pandey Singh (Birbhum), Bermo MLA Anup Singh (West Burdwan) and former state pollution control board chairman Mani Shankar (Bankura). In January, state rural development minister and Pakur MLA Alamgir Alam was made a member of the campaign committee for the Bengal polls after which the veteran Congressman toured various border areas of Bengal and Jharkhand. Additionally, Deepika has also been made a member of the screening committee to shortlist candidates for Assam under the chairmanship of former Maharashtra chief minister Prithviraj Chavan. Notably, Chavan is said to be among the Congress's G-23 dissenters, who have called for sweeping changes in the functioning of the party under the high command. Banna Gupta said he was thankful to the central leadership of the party for having reposed its faith in him. "Purulia has nine Assembly segments. The   Congress won two and the rest are with TMC. Going by the initial survey, the Congress-Left alliance is placed in a better position in these areas. My role will be to micro manage electioneering for the benefit of my party,” he said. Deepika also hailed the central leadership for giving such an opportunity to young workers like her. “The focus will be on picking the best candidates for Assam polls,” she said.  Speaking to the media a few days back, state Congress president Rameshwar Oraon had said that they would be campaigning actively in Bengal and Assam. “Both states have a considerable tribal population and leaders from Jharkhand will play an important role in wooing voters,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-125
02-03-2021||Jharkhand||Brace for a harsh summer, warns weather scientists||Jharkhand is likely to experience a harsh summer this year, weather scientists have noted. "The summer will be severe this year as the maximum temperature is expected to remain above normal on 60 per cent days in most districts of Jharkhand between March and May," said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. Last year, he added, the maximum temperature on most days between March and May was within normal limits with capital Ranchi witnessing readings of above 40 degree Celsius on one or two days. The forecast for the next five days indicated dry weather and a clear sky with maximum temperatures likely to be above normal by four to five degrees Celsius. Statistics available with IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre revealed that the maximum temperature had already climbed to 38 degree Celsius in and around Jamshedpur on Monday, five notches above normal. On Tuesday, the steel city and its adjoining areas, including Chaibasa in West Singhbhum, recorded a maximum reading of around 37 degree Celsius, four points above normal. Daltonganj and its adjoining areas recorded around 36 degree Celsius for the second consecutive day on Tuesday, four points above normal. Ranchi and its adjoining areas recorded maximum readings between 34 and 35 degree Celsius on Monday and Tuesday. Day readings rose to 36 degree Celsius in Pakur on Tuesday while Sahebganj and other places in the Santhal Pargana region notched up day readings of over 35 degree Celsius. Data also revealed an abrupt rise in minimum readings in most districts of Jharkhand as winter departed from Jharkhand. In meteorological parlance, it is winter if the minimum temperature stays below 13 degree Celsius constantly. Data suggests that in most parts of the state, night readings have shot up beyond 13 degrees. The minimum reading has touched 20-degree celsius in most districts of Santhal Pargana while the minimum temperature in Ranchi was hovering between 17 and 18 degree Celsius. The minimum reading has also shot up to around 19-degree celsius in Jamshedpur, Chaibasa in West Singhbhum and adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district. In Daltonganj, the headquarters of the Palamau region, the minimum reading has crossed beyond 16 degree Celsius, suggested Met data. A senior Met scientist at IMD's Patna office said dry weather would prevail over Jharkhand with maximum and minimum readings showing a rising trend. He ruled out the possibility of rain or thundershowers in Jharkhand during the next five days. Residents have already begun preparations for summer. "We have stopped warm clothes. Fans and air-conditioners have become a must, " said Shreya Anand, a homemaker at Bistupur in Jamshedpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-125
02-03-2021||Jharkhand||Over 1,000-acre poppy plantation destroyed since January||Police have destroyed over 1,000-acre poppy plantation in Ranchi, Khunti and Chatra districts of Jharkhand since January in a bid to put a check on smuggling of opium, a banned substance harvested in March, officials spearheading the campaign said on Tuesday. Khunti police have arrested at least eight opium smugglers and destroyed around 600- acre poppy plantation this year, Khunti SP Ashutosh Shekhar said. However, police teams were also focusing on spreading awareness about the adverse effect of opium cultivation and subsequent consumption among youths by distributing pamphlets among villagers, he added. “Although we have been running regular campaigns to destroy illegal poppy plantations, we realise it is equally important to ensure that villagers know about the consequences of poppy cultivation and do not support cultivators and smugglers,” said Shekhar. Opium is mostly cultivated in far-flung villages of Khunti, Ranchi and Chatra districts to bypass law enforcement agencies, said police sources, adding that the opium produced in Jharkhand was mostly smuggled to other states and barely consumed locally. “Opium produced here is mostly smuggled to Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and parts of Punjab. Our aim is to not only check the cultivation but also bust interstate rackets involved in the illegal trade,” said the Khunti SP. An SP rank official, who has been a part of the district’s campaign against opium cultivation and trade in Ranchi, said that some villagers were often tempted to cultivate opium due to its high monetary returns. “Usually, one kilogram of opium can be sold for around Rs 50,000 to Rs 60,000. No other crop gives such high returns,” he said. In the run up to the harvest season of opium, police in Ranchi and Khunti have stepped up vigil on highways and are on the lookout for local peddlers as well as members of interstate drug rackets. Ranchi SP (rural) Naushad Alam Ansari said police would run extensive campaigns against opium trade and cultivation across the district through March. “We are keeping an eye on suspects and also planning raids in the interiors,” said Ansari. Former DGP M.V. Rao had clearly stated in January that destroying opium cultivations across Jharkhand was one of the key priorities of the state police. Officials from the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) have also admitted that opium and marijuana cultivated in Jharkhand was smuggled to Punjab and Haryana. Left wing extremists, including the CPI (Maoist) and the People's Liberation Front of India (PLFI), are active in Chatra and Khunti districts, said to be the hotbed of opium cultivation, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-125
02-03-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad traders fed up with overcrowding of e-rickshaws||Traders of Purana Bazaar, are protesting the illegal parking of e-rickshaw in narrow streets of the market, obstructing the flow of customers, which in turn are affecting their sales that were already hit due to the pandemic-induced lockdown. Shopkeepers said they have written to the district administration and traffic police several times, demanding steps for prevention of entry of e rickshaw in market to prevent the vehicles, but in vain. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Tuesday, Ajay Narayan Lal, a trader and the vice president of Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce and Industry said Purana Bazaar, being cost-effective, is popular among a large number of  lower, middle and upper-middle class customers. “Many of our customers are keeping away from the market as there is no space left to park other vehicles due to hundreds of e-rickshaws standing here. The situation was not like this a few years ago but it keeps getting worse now,” Lal pointed out. Md. Sohrab, former president of Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce, had the same complaint as Lal and alleged overcrowding of the area due to the e-rickshaws. He also alleged that the majority of the drivers are under 18 years of age and make stoppages at undesignated places. “During a recent meeting, DSP Traffic, Rajesh Kumar Yadav assured that the authorities will create new routes for e-rickshaw movement. As per the new routes, they will not be required to enter the market. We are hopeful that a notification regarding this will be made in a day or two,” Sohrab said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-125
02-03-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma wildlife sanctuary reopens for tourists after a year||The Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary, shut down for almost a year due to the pandemic, reopened on Tuesday for tourists where they can also book accommodation now. "The state government has sent orders to reopen the sanctuary. We have already received the letter in this regard. The sanctuary has formally reopened on Tuesday," an official said on condition of anonymity. Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra confirmed the reopening but said bookings would be entertained in a restricted manner in view of the pandemic. "There will be restrictions on bookings. To start with, we will accept few bookings for accommodations. Fewer guests would be allowed inside the cafeteria at Makulakocha where AC and non-AC rooms are located. Same criteria will be applicable for accommodations at mud houses, also in Makukalocha, and residential quarters near Pinderbera forest guest house," he informed. Tourists shall have to adhere to necessary Covid-related norms like social distancing and use of face masks. "Thermal screening of tourists will be done at the entrance. Sanitisers would also be available at the entrance as well as accommodations and cafeteria. We are against taking any unnecessary risk and want tourists to also follow the directives with utter seriousness," a Dalma official said. The 192 sq km jumbo abode, 30 km from Jamshedpur, is one of the favourite getaways for tourists from Bengal, Odisha, Bihar, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand. "Elephants are presently at the periphery of the sanctuary while some are scattered downhill. Chill is no longer an issue at the top and elephants would soon start  assembling near watering holes. Tourists can click pictures of elephants and also watch their antics from inside animal hideouts built near watering holes," a forester said. Dalma authorities had on March 17 last year asked tourists, who were enjoying a break at the sanctuary, to go home after the state government’s order kicked in to close public places in view of the novel coronavirus pandemic. The authorities  also stopped entertaining any further bookings. The sanctuary has suffered revenue loss ever since the jumbo abode was closed. Now authorities can expect things to improve. Satish Pal, a Jamshedpur businessman, welcomed the reopening of the sanctuary. "We frequent the Dalma sanctuary. It is good to hear about its reopening. I would like to book the residential quarters and spend quality time at the top," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-125
02-03-2021||Jharkhand||Passengers have to undergo Covid-19 tests at Dhanbad station from Thursday||The district administration on Tuesday decided to make Covid tests mandatory for passengers arriving at Dhanbad railway station from Thursday. In a meeting headed by Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh, it was decided that tests will be conducted using TrueNat (true-nucleic acid amplification test) at the station premises, and strict action taken against those who try to evade testing. The district and the railway administrations have made arrangements to identify and prevent passengers from fleeing from the station without carrying out the mandatory Covid test. Singh said that Dhanbad is a strategically important location that witnesses a large number of people coming in everyday and it was therefore necessary to ensure everyone’s safety. “Immediate treatment would be carried out for those found Covid positive during the test. We have decided to launch the Covid Testing at Dhanbad Railway station from March 4 in view of increasing infection in several other states,” he said. States like Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Gujarat, Bengal and others are reporting a spike of cases over the past few weeks. Singh said that earlier several Railway Protection Force personnel and other staff who came into contact with Covid-19 patients also got infected. Passengers had to undergo Covid-19 tests at the railway station as a part of a drive launched in September last year, but it gradually got discontinued as the situation improved.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-126
02-03-2021||Jharkhand||Govt schools in Bokaro register 20 per cent attendance on first day of offline classes||A majority of private schools in Bokaro have planned to resume physical classes from the next session beginning probably by March-end or from the first week of April owing to their online annual examinations in spite of the government's directive to resume classes for students above Class 8 from Monday. However, among about 600 government schools that resumed classes 8 and above, the institutions situated in urban areas registered comparatively lower attendance than those in the rural areas. The fear of resurgence in Covid-19 cases also made parents keep their wards at home rather than sending them to schools. District education officer (DEO), Neelam Ileen Toppo said, “There are 1560 government schools in the district. Physical classes amid safety protocols began in 105 high schools and about 500 middle schools. The attendance of students was not satisfactory especially in the urban areas. "The strength of the students in the rural areas was recorded at about 50 percent on the first day, while the government schools operational in towns registered 20 percent attendance. Attendance will improve in coming few days,” Toppo said The teachers in almost all the government schools before beginning the class sensitised students to wear masks and maintain physical distance to be safe from the virus. The school management sanitized the school premises and classrooms. Majority of private schools like Delhi Public School, Chinmaya Vidyalaya, Pentecostal Assembly School, Ayyappa Public School, and others didn’t have students on the campus on Tuesday as their online examinations are taking place. DPS principal A S Gangwar who is also CBSE coordinator said, “Like other private schools, their online examinations are also going on. The physical classes for above class 8 will begin once the examinations are over.” Pentecostal Assembly School has also decided to conduct examination from the next academic session beginning from the last week of March. Secretary of Chinmaya Vidyalaya, Mahesh Tripathi said, We are conducting an online annual examination that will get over on March 12. The offline classes will start after the results are declared.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-126
02-03-2021||Jharkhand||4 Jharkhand doctors showcaused after woman, child die in cot outside hospital ||Jharkhand health department has served showcause notices to four truant doctors over death of a pregnant woman and her new born infant who was carried by her relatives on a cot for nearly seven kilometres only to die outside the community health centre in Giridih district’s Gawan block, over 226km north of capital Ranchi. Principal secretary health Kamal Kishore Soan speaking to The Telegraph said that acting on the recommendation of the Giridih deputy commissioner (Rahul Kumar Sinha), they have been issued show cause notices. “As per the deputy commissioner report they were found missing from the community health centre during the time of the incident which led to the death of the mother and the infant. We have issued show cause notices to all the four doctors and asked them to reply within a week as to why disciplinary action should not be started against them,” said Soan. Significantly, the deputy commissioner of Giridih had in the probe report submitted to the state health department secretary on February 27 had clearly indicted the missing doctors carelessness for the death of the pregnant mother and the child at the community health centre (CHC). “We had constituted a five member team led by SDO Khourimohua to probe into the incident. The report states that the acting in-charge health officer of the CHC had gone to Sadar Hospital in Giridih on the day of the incident (February 25). Another doctor (Dr Salik Jamal) was found missing from the hospital in the evening of that fateful day. If the doctor would have been present and started treatment of the mother and the child, both would have been saved,” the probe report (a copy of which is with this newspaper) submitted by the deputy commissioner states. The probe report further states that two other doctors who were newly appointed namely Dr Neha Kumari and Dr Irshad Ansari despite joining their duty on papers had not taken charge in the hospital and their absence also affected emergency treatment leading to the death. The report lastly states that an Ayush doctor Dr Kazim Khan after seeing patients in OPD had gone home. “Ideally the Ayush doctor should have been at the hospital till the in-charge health officer returned from the district headquarter which shows callousness towards responsibility,” the probe concludes recommending disciplinary action against all the doctors. The incident took place on Friday in a village Lakshmibandh in Tisri block of Giridih district and since there is no motorable road leading to the village ambulances do not reach the village forcing pregnant wife Surji Marandi (20), wife of Sunil Tuddu to be carried on a wooden cot and walked seven kilometres to the Gawan community health centre. A midwife had delivered a child on Thursday but she could not remove the placenta and the bleeding continued. The midwife asked the family members to rush her to the hospital which made them carry her on cot. The woman reached the hospital but passed away as there was no doctor to attend her at the hospital. The child had died earlier. Giridih DC Sinha said that they have sanctioned funds for construction of roads in the village under PMGSY scheme, though technically it does not falls under eligibility criteria for PMGSY scheme as there are only 22 houses in the village. They have also asked BSNL to set up transmission towers in the village.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-126
02-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand budget to focus on jobs ||When Jharkhand finance minister Rameshwar Oraon presents the annual budget on Wednesday, the second since Hemant Soren took over as the chief minister of the Grand Alliance government in December-end of 2019, he will surely find it difficult to please everybody. Though a finance minister is not expected to discuss budget before it is tabled in the House, Oraon gave sufficient hints that it would be a people-friendly budget aimed at serving their larger interest, with no fresh tax imposed. He also hinted that the budget would focus on creating jobs and providing relief to people who are already under financial strain due to rise of prices of essential commodities. But the expectations of various quarters are so high that it would be really difficult for the present government to satisfy their demands. A delegation of the Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI), the apex trade body of the state, had recently met both the chief minister and finance minister and suggested what it felt should be done for improvement in trade and commerce of the state. They advised the government for establishing a textile park in Santhal Pargana, taking steps for reviving over 500 closed industrial units and promoting MSME sector and start-ups, besides creating proper infrastructure as required for the purpose. “These are required for boosting the trade and industry in state,” said FJCCI president Praveen Jain Chabra, adding Santhal Pargana region badly needed attention for its proper development. The ordinary people expect the state government should do its bit to reduce the cost of petrol, diesel and LPG cylinders that, in turn, also affects prices of essential commodities. There were also many other organisations that felt initiatives should be made for overall development of the state. Even social workers and activists also felt the state needed to do more to ensure that all the needy are benefited by welfare schemes. The state chapter of Right to Food Campaign had been demanding for a long time that distribution of ration for the poor through the public distribution system should be universalised so that it covered all the poor and the needy. Besides, another organisation, Gram Swaraj Majdoor Sangh, held a rally in Latehar district on February 26 and demanded that the amount of monthly pension to the old, widow, disabled and those belonging to particularly vulnerable tribal groups be raised from the existing Rs 1,000 to Rs 2,500 and paid regularly. All these demands may be justified but the state needs resources for meeting those. It now remains to be seen how the budget plans to mobilise the required resources. “The focus of the government during present budget session should be opening of avenues for providing jobs to the youths whose future would otherwise look bleak,” CPI(M-L) MLA Vinod Singh said while speaking to the media on the Assembly premises.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-126
