03-03-2021||Calcutta||Accident victim’s heart for Odisha teenager||A 13-year-old boy from Odisha’s Kendujhar district who was suffering from a condition that severely weakened the heart’s ability to pump received a new heart at Narayana Multispeciality Hospital in Howrah on Tuesday. The heart that Badal Paida received was retrieved from a 22-year-old man who was declared brain dead at Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals in Calcutta on Monday. Basudev Das Adhikari, the donor, suffered an accident while returning home on his two-wheeler in West Midnapore’s Sabong on Saturday. “After Basudev was declared brain dead on Monday, a doctor at Apollo approached us asking if we wanted to donate his organs. His father was present and he instantly agreed. If someone else is able to lead a normal life with his organs, we will be happy,” said Nanda Das Adhikari, a cousin of the deceased. The transplant ended around 8pm and the teenager was kept on ventilator support in the intensive care unit (ICU) of the hospital. A doctor who was part of the transplant team said Badal’s condition was stable. “The boy suffered from a congenital heart condition called Ebstein’s anomaly, which can be treated by a valve repair if the patient comes early. But this boy came to us at an advanced stage. The only option left was a heart transplant,” said Debasis Das, a cardiac surgeon who led the team that conducted the surgery. An official of Narayana Multispeciality Hospital said the patient was treated in January but the family was told they would have to come at a short notice if a heart was available for transplant. “We came to know around 1.30am on Tuesday that the heart of a brain dead man could be retrieved. We immediately informed the boy’s family and they left their home in Kendujhar,” said the official. Badal was admitted to the hospital around 8.30am. A team from Narayana left Apollo with the retrieved heart at 4pm. “It took 16 minutes to cover the 15km between the two hospitals because we were given a green corridor,” said the official. The surgery began around 4.25am and ended around 8.30pm. Das said the boy would have to be on regular follow-up to see if his body was rejecting the heart.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-126
03-03-2021||Calcutta||Option soon to pay traffic fine online||Calcuttans may soon be able to pay their traffic fines online against compound cases which have already been sent to court. Earlier, a person had to visit the court to pay these fines. Calcutta police are collaborating with Calcutta High Court to initiate this project through an e-court where motorists will be able to transfer the fine amount sitting in their homes. There would also be an option to “contest” the imposed fine and fight it out by physically appearing before the court. Officers from Lalbazar have held multiple meetings with the high court officials who are part of the project, sources said. Senior police officers said the project would enable Calcuttans to check their pending traffic cases through the police’s website like they could do earlier and pay the fines online even if the case had been forwarded to the court. The existing practice allows a vehicle owner to make online payment of fines only for citation cases that are pending with the police. Cases that are forwarded to the court have to be settled in court only. According to rulebook, a case is sent to the court if the fine amount remains unpaid for a stipulated time frame. Cases may also be forwarded to the court if a motorist contests prosecution by police on the spot. In such cases, the documents are seized by cops till the court decides either in favour of or against the motorist who would get back the documents after disposal of the case. “We are fine-tuning the details of the project. Once the case is disposed, the seized documents may either be delivered to the motorists’ home with some extra charge or can be collected by the motorist from the respective traffic guard — this is yet to be finalised,” said a senior police officer. Officers said the process of online payment would be the same as that of making payments while paying traffic fines through the police’s website. “We are contemplating making it user-friendly. Just as people can pay their fines online, they will be able to dispose of their fines for cases pending with the court by the click of a button. And in case, someone wants to contest, he or she will have that option too. They will have to go to the court physically,” said a senior police officer. The idea behind the project is to reduce people’s harassment in queuing in courtrooms to clear their pending fines. Courts can send summons to the motorists whose cases remain pending for years. However, once the project is launched, pendency may go down, a section of the police feel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-126
03-03-2021||Calcutta||Amul head to talk on leadership at Bengal Chamber of Commerce event||A man at the helm of one of the stronger Indian brands will talk on leadership in the city on Friday. Rupinder Singh Sodhi, the managing director of the Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation, which manages Amul, will be the speaker at the Bengal Chamber of Commerce Leadership Lecture Series, in association with The Telegraph. Sodhi has been at the helm of the dairy behemoth for over a decade. “Amul is an iconic Indian brand. It is also a purely India-bred FMCG. A lot of credit for that goes to R.S. Sodhi,” said Smarajit Purkayastha, the deputy director-general of the chamber. The theme of Sodhi’s talk: Amul: Dairy to the World. The event will be held at Williamson Magor Hall, Bengal Chamber of Commerce, from 6.15pm. Amul is the biggest producer of packaged milk in the organised sector and the biggest exporter of dairy products in the country. It supplies around 10 lakh litres of milk to Calcutta and its adjoining areas every day. Past speakers in the series include the likes of Montek Singh Ahluwalia, Shashi Tharoor and Sourav Ganguly. “In 2020, we could not have a lecture because of the pandemic,” said Purkayastha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-126
03-03-2021||Calcutta||IIEST alumni raise Rs 30 lakh for volleyball court||The batch of 1989 of Bengal Engineering College, now IIEST, has raised Rs 30 lakh to develop a volleyball court on the Shibpur campus. The court has been set up at the south-west corner of the ground named Lord’s. The campus has two grounds — Oval and Lord’s. The idea to gift the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology a volleyball court was floated when the batch of ’89 had held a reunion in 2019 on the occasion of the 30th year of their graduation. Chinmoy Jana, the convener of REUNION 30 of the batch, said they decided to develop a volleyball court following consultations with the IIEST authorities. “The former students based in other countries and in India chipped in with their contribution and the court is ready. We will soon hand over the facility to the institute,” said Jana, who had completed BTech in mechanical engineering. The facility would have been developed last year had there been no pandemic. The court has been developed in accordance with the technical specifications set by the Sports Authority of India and International Volleyball Federation, said an alumnus. The basic playing court size measures 18mX9m. The overall court size, including the mandatory free playing area, measures 24mX15m. The enclosed area measures 24mX17m. The 1.5m concrete pedestal all around the enclosed playing area has been covered with paver tiles. Work is under way to install flood lights. “We want the volleyball court to be opened once all students return to the campus following resumption of in-person classes,” said Chaitali Roy, who had graduated in civil engineering. Some of the alumni hoped that the renovation of the Lords’ ground would start with the inauguration of the volleyball court. “The condition of the ground is not what it should be. We hope the launch of the facility will lead to better upkeep of the iconic ground,” he said. Konika Das, a professor of electrical engineering at the IIEST who had graduated from then BE College in 1989, said there was a need for adding a sport facility as the number of students had increased following the upgrade of the institute. In 1989, the institute was known as Bengal Engineering College, a government institution. Later, it became a state university. In 2014, it was rechristened IIEST. “Since becoming a central academic institute, the flow of students from outside the state has increased. They needed an additional sporting facility and we are proud to provide that,” said Das. IIEST director Parthasarathi Chakrabarti said: “The gesture by the batch of ’89 will inspire alumni of other batches to give it back to their alma mater. We have plans to renovate the Lord’s ground.” Bivore Das, an assistant registrar of IIEST, said alumni of another batch had earlier gifted a basketball court to the campus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-126
03-03-2021||Calcutta||CCTV cameras at  Rakesh Singh’s house  tampered before collection||Footage from CCTV cameras installed at BJP leader Rakesh Singh’s Orphangunge house had allegedly been tampered with before they were collected by police, a senior police officer in Lalbazar said. The footage from the day before Pamela Goswami was arrested was missing from the hard disk, he said. “CCTV footage from a neighbouring house showed one of Singh’s associates, Amrit Singh, visiting the house that day,” the officer said. Amrit Singh is suspected to be inside Goswami’s car the day she was arrested. He allegedly fled when the police surrounded the car. He is still at large.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-126
03-03-2021||Calcutta||Patuli coaching centre for the pandemic-hit||A coaching centre that started a month ago from the ground floor of a Patuli apartment block has enrolled close to 50 children whose right to education has been robbed by the pandemic. The students of Rokeya Siksha Kendra live mostly in slums in and around Patuli, off EM Bypass. Their religions are different but lives similar. Their parents are masons, drivers, domestic help or from some other unorganised sector. On paper, all of them are students of government schools. But virtual education is uncharted terrain for most of them. If there is a smartphone at home, there is no data. Some children have older siblings preparing for bigger exams and they get priority when it comes to using the smartphone. With earnings going down and prices going up, the parents are bogged down with survival, not education of their wards. But since February 9, when the centre started, their children have been spending at least a couple of hours in a “classroom” every day. The centre has around 20 teachers, offering lessons on all subjects to students of Classes I to X and only English and Bengali to students of Classes XI and XII. On Friday, Metro visited the centre, a five-minute drive from Patuli fire station, in the evening. The 5pm-to-6pm slot was for a “drawing class”, attended by around 20 students of various age groups sitting on a mat and scribbling on their drawing books. The teacher sat in the middle. It was followed by a session on English grammar, this time for students of Classes V to VIII. Three students, each taller than the previous one, were made to stand as another teacher explained “degrees of comparison”. The centre has two rooms and a mini library. The monthly fee for students under Class VIII is Rs 50 and for those above, Rs 100. Named after Rokeya Sakhawat Hossain (1880-1932), Bengal’s pioneering Muslim feminist writer, educationist and activist, the centre has been set up by a group called the Humans of Patuli, formed in 2019 to resist the Centre’s citizenship thrust at the grassroots level. Covid-19 stalled the campaign in Patuli, as it did in the rest of the country. During the lockdown, Humans of Patuli had supported hundreds of poor families with dry ration. A campaign to provide new saris to women from the families of unorganised workers in and around Patuli before the Puja had become very popular. “Our aim is to live together along with our neighbours. Education and health are two inseparable parts of that shared living. We had been in constant touch with families who were struggling to survive during the lockdown.The students (of Rokeya Siksha Kendra) are from such families. So far, it has been an organic growth for us, with one thing leading to another,” said Dwaipayan Banerjee, one of the founder-members of Humans of Patuli. Since January 24, the group has also been running a free health check-up centre. Named after Kadambini Ganguly, the first Indian woman to become a practising doctor, the clinic is held every Sunday. “The school is getting word-of-mouth publicity. We can take around 100 students. We do not want to compromise on the quality of education....We also plan to have book reading sessions and screen films,” said Banerjee. On Friday evening, this correspondent met a homemaker who lives nearby. She had gone to the centre to enrol her daughter, a student of Class VIII. Her husband is a priest, whose income “has taken a substantial hit” over the past year. “A friend of my daughter already studies here,” said the woman. “This is the only formal education that my daughter is getting,” said another woman. Her 14-year-old daughter is a student at the centre. “Many of the students are first-generation learners. They are keen to learn,” said Manas Bose, 59, who teaches mathematics at the centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-126
03-03-2021||Calcutta||Rs 25cr heroin seized from car in East Burdwan||Heroin worth more than Rs 25 crore was seized from a Hyundai Creta while it was travelling through a crowded Rasulpur market in East Burdwan’s Memari late on Monday, police said. Officers of the special task force of Calcutta police said the operation was carried out based on specific information they had got while probing a narcotics racket unearthed in Calcutta last month. A man named Sunil Howlader, who was allegedly inside the car, has been arrested on the charge of possessing the banned psychotropic substance. He has been remanded in police custody. The police suspect the consignment was meant for Calcutta. However, they are yet to ascertain to whom it was to be delivered and where. “A team from the Special Task Force (STF), acting on a specific tip-off, intercepted a car at Rasulpur market in the Memari police station area around 11.35pm on Monday. The team found 5.01kg of heroin in the car and seized it,” said a senior officer of the STF. “The operation was based on leads we got while investigating a racket we had busted in the middle of February. A gang, whose members were from Bengal, Assam and Manipur, was captured. They had managed to smuggle heroin into the heart of the city and got arrested. In this case, too,  the consignment was meant for Calcutta.” In February, STF sleuths had arrested five persons in the Cossipore area on the charge of smuggling heroin and yaba drugs worth Rs 17.5 crore into the city. STF officers said yaba drugs — commonly known as party pills — act as stimulants and have a target audience in the cities. “Yaba tablets are a composition of amphetamine and caffeine and act as brain stimulants. Items from large consignments are distributed to peddlers, who in turn sell them to targets. We are trying to ascertain the chain and the people involved in the trade,” said the officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-126
03-03-2021||Calcutta||No-break summer for ISC Class XI||A number of city schools are set to scrap the summer break for students who will be promoted to Class XI this year to make up for the loss of days resulting from delayed start of the session. The examinees are also set to have a shorter break between the end of the ICSE (Class X) exams and the start of Class XI session — five to 10 days in most schools, instead of the usual two to three weeks. The Class X board exams are usually over by the end of March and the Class XI session starts towards the middle of April. This year, because of the Covid pandemic, the ICSE exams will start on May 5 and continue till June 7. The results are likely to be announced in July. In previous years Class XI students would get a month-long summer break from the middle of May. A number of city schools Metro spoke to said they were planning to scrap the break to ensure they had enough time to cover all the topics. The heads of the schools feel the delay in board exams had already encroached on the academic months and they needed to “get on with the next level of learning”. “The Class X students will be busy with the boards. After that is over, there will be about a weeklong break and the new session will start. There will be no separate summer break for Class XI,” said Suvina Shunglu, the principal of Sri Sri Academy. Sujoy Biswas, the principal of Rammohan Mission High School, said they, too, were having similar plans. “The Class XI session will start within a week of the end of the Class X board exams. There will be no separate summer break for them. By the time the Class XI session starts, in all probability the summer break for the rest of the school will be over.” Usually, ICSE candidates get three weeks before they start Class XI in April. This year the gap is likely to be reduced. Modern High School for Girls, St James’ School, The Heritage School, Sri Sri Academy and St Augustine's Day School in Calcutta are some of the institutions that are planning to start the Class XI session days after the end of the Class X exams. At many schools the gap will be five to 10 days. “We will start Class XI after a reasonable break from the last paper of Class X boards. So far there is no intimation whether there will be any reduction in syllabus and we will proceed with the assumption that students are expected to study the entire syllabus,” said Damayanti Mukherjee, the principal of Modern High School for Girls. Teachers believe curtailing the syllabus might not be prudent for the plus II students. “There has to be a linear progression and when they move to college they will be expected to have the basic knowledge of certain things,” said Seema Sapru, the principal of The Heritage School. Teachers said the reduced break would only help students complete the syllabus and move ahead. “Normally, students get about three weeks’ break. But this time it will be a week-long break,” said Shunglu, of Sri Sri Academy. Terence Ireland, the principal of St James’ School, too said they would have a reduced break this year for Class XI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-126
03-03-2021||Calcutta||Elderly wait for hours or return without Covid vaccine ||Hundreds of elderly people in and around Calcutta waited for hours on Tuesday for a Covid-19 vaccine shot and many went back without getting one because of glitches in the registration portal and other technical problems. Several private hospitals, including those that are planning to start vaccinating senior citizens and those above 45 with comorbidities on Wednesday, said they would record the personal details of a recipient and administer the shot if the technical problems persist. They will later upload the details on the Co-Win2 app when it will function without glitches. “The portal’s issues were not resolved and it was not functioning properly throughout the day. Session sites could not be created according to the plan. Because of that the vaccination programme suffered today, too,” said a health department official. “We have informed the Centre about the portal issue. Central government officials told us they are working on the problems. From Wednesday, all private hospitals have been asked to start vaccinating senior citizens,” health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam said. Some private hospitals said they had to refuse doses to many people as the number of individuals who had registered for Tuesday's vaccination was far more than their capacity. Also, the Co-Win2 portal, where all intended recipients from among the general public will have to register for Covid vaccines, was not functioning for hours in the morning, leading to long queues. On Tuesday, the second day of vaccination for people above 60 and those above 45 with comorbidities, the Co-Win2 portal did not function between 10am and 12.30pm, said officials of several hospitals. When it finally started functioning, it was too slow. “There is no system in the Co-Win2 portal to know how many people have registered and slotted for a particular day,” said an official of a private hospital. At AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria, 546 people had turned up, though the hospital was prepared to administer only 200 doses. At the hospital's Mukundapur unit, 384 recipients had queued up, against the 200 doses the authorities had planned to administer. “We had uploaded on the portal that our capacity is 200 but still it allowed registration of so many people. We will be administering the vaccine to all in phases over the next few days,” said an official of AMRI. “The process of verification is done through the Co-Win2 portal. After it’s complete, a person can pay and get the dose. The verification was taking more than 30 minutes,” he said. Amit Sharma had taken his 85-year-old father Hanuman Prasad Sharma to AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria twice on Tuesday, once at 10.30am and again at 3pm. But the elderly man could not be vaccinated. “I was advised by security personnel to come back later when we went to the hospital at 10.30am. When we went back around 3pm, they did not allow us in. There were still 40 people inside waiting to be vaccinated and another 30 were in the queue outside,” Sharma said. A board was put up announcing that vaccination had closed for the day. “My father was disappointed. He has been mostly at home since the beginning of the pandemic. I lost my mother recently and he has become very lonely at home,” Sharma said. AMRI officials advised him to check the hospital’s website, where they said they would announce the schedule for vaccinating those who did not get their shots on Tuesday. Sushil Sethia, 57, a diabetic, had registered himself, his wife Neha Sethia, 50, also a diabetic and his father J.R. Sethia, 83. The three reached AMRI Dhakuria at 2pm only to find a long queue of vaccine hopefuls. They were told to come back another day. Yet the three took a chance and went to the hospital again at 4.30pm. “I could do this because I live on Iron Side Road, not very far from the hospital,” said Sushil. They finally got their doses around 8pm. Shibani Ghose, 62, and Apurba Ghose, 68, reached the Dhakuria hospital at 10.30am. They left the hospital after receiving their jabs at 4.30pm. “The authorities need to speed up the process. There were people older than us who had to wait for a long time. At this age, it is very difficult to wait for so long. I do not know why it took six hours to get a dose,” said Shibani. The couple had registered through the Co-Win2 portal on Monday evening. They were among the handful who received text messages confirming their registration. At Medica Superspecialty Hospital, where around 600 persons were vaccinated, officials said they were overwhelmed by the turnout. “There is no way to know when or how many people are coming for the vaccination. We are allocating slots to those who are getting registered at our hospital through the help desk. But those who are registering independently are not getting any slot, causing congestions,” said an official of Medica. The hospital in the afternoon started giving doses to people after taking down their details and registered them in the evening. Many hospitals that will start the drive on Wednesday said they would follow the similar process to reduce confusions and delays.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-126
03-03-2021||Business||Infosys, Accenture to cover Covid vaccination costs of Indian employees||India’s second-largest IT services firm Infosys and tech giant Accenture on Wednesday said they will cover COVID vaccination costs of their employees in India. People above 60 years of age and those in the 45-59 age brackets with comorbidities are being immunised in the second phase of nationwide vaccination that started on March 1. “Infosys is looking at partnering with healthcare providers to vaccinate employees and their immediate families as eligible under the guidelines given by the Government of India and as per approved procedures and timelines,” Infosys Chief Operating Officer Pravin Rao said in an emailed statement. The company will cover the vaccination cost for the employees and their immediate family members as part of our focus on health and wellness, he added. Rekha M Menon, Chairperson and Senior Managing Director of Accenture in India said the company has continued to monitor and consider the guidance of external experts and groups, including international health organisations and local health authorities. “Based on this, we strongly support the scientific and public health advice that encourages vaccination... for our people who are eligible and choose to receive the COVID-19 vaccination, Accenture in India will cover the cost for the employee and their dependents who are part of our medical benefits programme,” she said. More than 1.56 crore vaccine doses were administered in the country through 3,12,188 sessions, according to a provisional report till Wednesday 7 am. The beneficiaries include 67,42,187 healthcare workers (first dose), 27,13,144 HCWs (second dose), 55,70,230 FLWs or frontline workers (first dose), 834 FLWs (second dose), 71,896 people aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities (first dose) and 5,22,458 beneficiaries aged above 60 years. Infosys co-founders N R Narayana Murthy and Kris Gopalakrishnan, and Kotak Mahindra Bank MD and CEO Uday Kotak, are among the business leaders who have received the vaccination. Covaxin and Oxford-AstraZeneca’s Covishield are the two vaccines that are being administered in the country. Covaxin has been indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
03-03-2021||Business||Sensex zooms 1,148 points to close above 51,000 mark||Continuing their winning run for the third session in a row, the BSE Sensex surged nearly 1,148 points to breach the 51,000-level and the NSE Nifty recaptured the 15,200-mark on Wednesday, propped up by intense buying in financial and energy stocks. At the closing bell, the 30-share Sensex was up 1,147.76 points or 2.28 per cent at 51,444.65 - the biggest single-day rise since February 2. Intra-day, the index swung 1,243 points. Likewise, the NSE Nifty climbed 326.50 points or 2.19 per cent to end at 15,245.60. The Sensex rally was driven by Bajaj FinServ, Reliance Industries, Bajaj Finance, ICICI Bank, HDFC and Axis Bank. Of the 30 Sensex constituents, 27 closed in the green. Foreign investors had bought equities worth Rs 2,223.16 crore on net basis in Indian capital markets on Tuesday, exchange data showed. Elsewhere in Asia, stock markets extended gains on Wednesday despite an overnight retreat on Wall Street. Meanwhile, Brent Futures rose by 1.84 per cent to trade at USD 63.77 per barrel. On the forex market front, the rupee rose by 65 paise to end at 72.72 against the US dollar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
03-03-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty firm up gains in early trade||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty continued their upward journey in the opening session on Wednesday, propped up by significant gains in financial stocks. The BSE barometer Sensex was trading higher by 411.23 points or 0.82 per cent at 50,708.12 in early session, and the Nifty was up 124.65 points or 0.84 per cent at 15,043.75. The Sensex rally was driven by HDFC, SBI, Bajaj Finance, Axis Bank, IndusInd Bank, L&T and ICICI Bank spurting as much as 1.4 per cent. Of the Sensex constituents, 25 traded in the green. On Tuesday, the Sensex had rallied 447.05 points or 0.90 per cent, and the Nifty had jumped 157.55 points or 1.07 per cent, extending gains for the second day in a row. Foreign investors bought equities worth a net Rs 2,223.16 crore in Indian capital markets on Tuesday, exchange data showed. Elsewhere in Asia on Wednesday, stocks were trading higher in afternoon deals despite an overnight retreat on Wall Street. Meanwhile, Brent Futures rose 0.64 per cent to trade at 63.02 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
03-03-2021||Business||IHCL and Ambuja Neotia group tie up to roll out 4 new hotels in Bengal and Sikkim||Indian Hotels Company Ltd (IHCL), the largest hospitality player in the country, may further expand its partnership with the city-based Ambuja Neotia group. The duo is planning to develop four more properties in Bengal and Sikkim, including one at Darjeeling. Ambuja owns land parcels in Ghoom and near Gorumara forest in North Bengal and in Sunderbans, apart from one at Rabangla in Sikkim. They are likely to be developed under the Taj brand. While the properties will be built by Ambuja, IHCL will manage the assets. “We are exploring to extend the partnership with them (Ambuja) beyond the five already contracted,” Puneet Chatwal, managing director of IHCL, said in Calcutta on Tuesday. In November IHCL and Ambuja had formally unveiled their association for five hotels — including three in Bengal, and one each in Sikkim and Patna. The management contract deal between the realtor and the hospitality company already puts IHCL as the largest operator of hotels in Bengal with 800 rooms. “We hope to create a tourism circuit across Bengal and Sikkim. We have picked up some lovely sites in the last 7-8 years,” Harshvardhan Neotia, chairman of Ambuja Realty, said. The first priority for Ambuja would, however, be to complete the ongoing projects. The new properties will be developed after that. “We want to have a presence in every state capital and other important locations,” Chatwal explained. Chatwal was in the city after a tour of Taj Chiakutir, a boutique hotel in the midst of Makaibari tea estate in Kurseong. An hour’s drive from Darjeeling town, the property started operation from mid-December. Chatwal said that the industry as well as the company is witnessing an improvement in business every quarter after the revenue earnings came to a standstill following the lockdown last March. But the situation has started improving in the third and fourth quarter and the trend is expected to continue in the fourth quarter. The growth is largely driven by leisure travel with business travel showing greenshoots. “In December, January and February it would be fair to say we are inching up,” Chatwal said. The hospitality major had earlier informed analysts that in April revenue had almost reached zero with 7 per cent occupancy. From that revenue as percent of same period last year has improved to 60 per cent in December.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
03-03-2021||Business||India Inc top guns take Covid jabs||Corporate India is now beginning to vaccinate with some of the bigwigs turning up at various centres to receive their first shots. On Tuesday, Uday Kotak, the MD & CEO of Kotak Mahindra Bank, took the first jab of the Covid-19 vaccine. He follows Infosys co-founders N R. Narayana Murthy and Kris Gopalakrishnan who got vaccinated on Monday as the government kicked off the second round. Narayana Murthy was accompanied by his wife Sudha Murty, the chairperson of Infosys Foundation, who also received the first shot. While the common message from all of these recipients was that the vaccination process was painless and without any side-effects, the coming days is likely to see more prominent faces from the business and finance community taking their jabs. “Happy to share that I took the first shot of the vaccine this morning. Smooth and no pain,” Uday Kotak said in a tweet sharing his photograph while being administered the vaccine. He however, did not disclose which vaccine was administered. Biocon chairperson Kiran Mazumdar Shaw also disclosed that she got vaccinated at Narayana Hrudayalaya in Bangalore on Monday. Incidentally, Shaw had tested positive for Covid-19 last year and recovered subsequently. “I just got vaccinated at Narayana Health-painless no injection related side effects. I guess its a booster dose for me since I had Covid six months ago. Feel safe & protected,’’ she tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-121
03-03-2021||Business||Kotak Mahindra Bank cuts home loan rates to 6.65 per cent||Kotak Mahindra Bank has announced a 10 basis points reduction in its home loan rates for a limited period. The private sector lender is offering 6.65 per cent to its customers, which it says is the lowest in the market. The announcement came amid the State Bank of India (SBI) dropping interest rates on home loans by 10 basis points after which its revised interest rate stands at 6.70 per cent. The country’s largest bank had said that the new rates were based on the loan amount and the credit score of the borrower, and are available till March 31, 2021. Kotak Bank which has been looking to ramp up its market share in the highly competitive home loan segment, said that customers will be able to avail themselves the loans for 6.65 per cent till March 31 as part of a special offer after the rate reduction. Home loan rates are now at a 15-year low as the RBI has been maintaining an accommodative policy. Observers expect a positive response to the latest offer from Kotak Bank and it is felt that the lender could also wean away existing customers of other banks through balance transfer. Interest rates are linked to the borrowers' credit score and the Loan to Value (LTV) ratio, Kotak Bank said. LTV is that portion of the property value which can be financed through an housing loan. “We are delighted to offer consumers a special year-end bonus in the form of even lower interest rates,” its president for consumer assets Ambuj Chandna said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-121
03-03-2021||Business||India lures Tesla with incentives to offer cheaper production costs than China||India is ready to offer incentives to ensure Tesla Inc's cost of production would be less than in China if the carmaker commits to making its electric vehicles in the south Asian country, transport minister Nitin Gadkari told Reuters. Gadkari's pitch comes weeks after billionaire Elon Musk's Tesla registered a company in India in a step towards entering the country, possibly as soon as mid-2021. Sources familiar with the matter have said Tesla plans to start by importing and selling its Model 3 electric sedan in India. "Rather than assembling (the cars) in India they should make the entire product in the country by hiring local vendors. Then we can give higher concessions," Gadkari said in an interview, without giving details of what incentives would be on offer. "The government will make sure the production cost for Tesla will be the lowest when compared with the world, even China, when they start manufacturing their cars in India. We will assure that," he said. India wants to boost local manufacturing of electric vehicles (EVs), batteries and other components to cut costly imports and curb pollution in its major cities. This comes amid a global race by carmakers to jump-start EV production as countries work towards cutting carbon emissions. But India faces a big challenge to win a production commitment from Tesla, which did not immediately respond to an email requesting comment about its plans in the country. India's fledgling EV market accounted for just 5,000 out of a total 2.4 million cars sold in the country last year as negligible charging infrastructure and the high cost of EVs deterred buyers. In contrast, China, where Tesla already makes cars, sold 1.25 million new energy passenger vehicles, including EVs, in 2020 out of total sales of 20 million, and accounted for more than a third of Tesla's global sales. India also doesn't have a comprehensive EV policy like China which mandates companies to invest in the sector. Gadkari said that as well as being a big market, India could be an export hub, especially with about 80% of components for lithium-ion batteries being made locally now. “I think it's a win-win situation for Tesla," Gadkari said, adding he also wanted to engage with Tesla about building an ultra high-speed hyperloop between Delhi and Mumbai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-121
03-03-2021||Business||RBI wants banks to limit ownership stakes in capital intensive insurance companies||India’s central bank wants banks to limit ownership stakes in capital intensive insurance companies at a maximum 20 per cent, less than half of what the current regulations permit, three sources with knowledge of the discussions said. Reserve Bank of India (RBI) rules allow banks to hold up to 50 per cent stakes in insurers and on a selective basis equity holdings can be higher but must eventually be brought down within a certain period. The sources, who asked not to be named as the discussions are private, however said the RBI in 2019 unofficially advised banks seeking to acquire stakes in insurers, to limit such stakes to a maximum of 30 per cent, and more recently directed them to cap stake purchases in insurers at 20 per cent. “Unofficially, banks have been told that the regulator is not comfortable with lenders increasing their stakes because the insurance business is seen as a money guzzler,” one source said. The RBI wants banks to focus on their main areas of business instead of locking away capital in non-core sectors. The central bank did not respond to a request seeking comment. The unofficial push suggests the RBI is looking for uniformity around ownership rules for lenders with exposure in the sector, following suggestions made in a working paper by an internal group released in November. Some lenders such as Kotak Mahindra Bank and State Bank of India have wholly-owned or majority owned insurance subsidiaries, and the paper had suggested that if any lender had more than a 20 per cent stake in an insurer, they should follow a non-operative financial holding company (NOFHC) structure which will ring fence ownership. Most lenders are not keen to adopt such a structure on concerns it will hurt shareholder value and limit their capital raising ability, one of the sources said. Recommendations made by the working paper are under consideration by the RBI and it is not clear when the central bank will act on or implement the suggestions. In light of this, the sources said the RBI was likely to stall on any requests by banks to boost or acquire new stakes in insurers. The move comes at a time when India is keen to woo foreign investment in its insurance sector. Reuters Last month, the government said it would allow foreign direct investment of up to 74% in insurers, up from 49%. Many foreign insurers are expected to explore the opportunity as insurance penetration continues to be low in India. With fears that banks’ bad loans could double amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the RBI does not want banks to lock up money in capital intensive businesses, the sources said. The RBI may have reservations about banks having more than 20% stakes in any non-core companies, one of the sources said. Federal Bank, which sought permission from the RBI to increase its stake in Ageas Federal Life insurance after its board approved the deal about a year ago, has still not received RBI approval, one of the sources said. Federal Bank did not respond to a request seeking comment. Last year, the RBI had also rejected Axis Bank’s application to directly purchase a 17% stake in Max Life. The transaction was only approved after Axis restructured it and agreed to purchase the stake with two subsidiaries, bringing down the bank’s direct ownership share to less than 10%. Axis Bank did not respond to a request seeking comment on whether it restructured the deal on the advice of the RBI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-121
03-03-2021||Business||World added 412 billionaires to take total to 3,228: Hurun Global Rich list||The world has added 412 billionaires — 8 billionaires a week — to take the total number of billionaires to 3,228, says the Hurun Global Rich list. The report, however, adds that it has probably missed out on one in every two billionaires because of the secrecy and lack of publicly available information. Forty Indians entered the billionaire’ club in the pandemic-stricken 2020 to take the number to 177 people. The report compiles individual or family wealth in the year to January 15. It can be noted that the Indian economy is set to contract over 7 per cent because of the impact of the pandemic, which had a debilitating impact on the poor. The report comes at a time  concerns are being raised about a “K-shaped” recovery being underway, where a select few prosper. Hurun said Indian wealth creation is dominated by cyclical or traditional industries compared to tech-driven wealth creation in the US and China. “When the tech-driven wealth creation reaches full potential, India could potentially beat USA in terms of the number of billionaires,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-121
03-03-2021||Business||Reliance Jio corners more than half of spectrum auctioned by govt||The first telecom spectrum auction in five years swiftly ended on Tuesday just a day after it commenced with 855.60Mhz of the 2,250Mhz spectrum sold for a consideration of Rs 77,814.80 crore. Reliance Jio cornered more than half of the spectrum auctioned by the government over the past two days, offering about Rs 57,123 crore for the airwaves. Jio's owned spectrum  footprint has risen “significantly” by 55 per cent through the acquisition, a company release said. Bharti Airtel bid Rs 18,699 crore to pick up 355.45Mhz spectrum. Vodafone Idea Ltd bought 11.8Mhz spectrum worth Rs 1,993.40 crore. The spectrum on offer was spread across seven bands — 700Mhz, 800Mhz, 900Mhz, 1800Mhz, 2100Mhz, 2300Mhz and 2500Mhz — worth Rs 3.92 lakh crore at their floor price. But there were no takers for the spectrum in the premium 700Mhz band and the 2500Mhz band. “Given the Covid scenario in the country and other stress situations the sector is facing, the collection exceeded what the government’s expectations. We are happy the industry is confident and it has bid to acquire more airwaves,” telecom secretary Anshu Prakash said. “The fact that in 700 Mhz no bid has come is something we will see. But there is also a distinct possibility that now with 5G technology that's going to come (bid for 700Mhz) sooner or later. If 700 MHz is not sold in this auction, nothing prevents it from being sold in the next auction,” Prakash said. The government expects to get about Rs 15,000 crore in upfront payment this fiscal and the balance about Rs 11,000 crore in the next fiscal, officials said. Icra vice-president Ankit Jain said, “While the value of total spectrum sold is only 19 per cent of the total value of spectrum on offer, post the auctions, the debt levels of the industry would increase further to around Rs 5 lakh crore as on March 31, 2022 and despite the improvement in the operating metrics, the debt protection metrics will continue to remain weak.” Big gains Reliance Jio placed orders for spectrum in all the 22 circles. The company had placed bids for 488.35 Mhz.  Jio said it would make an upfront payment of Rs 19,939 crore and the remaining sum over the 18 year period. Jio has spent Rs 34,491 crore for 800 Mhz, Rs 12,461 crore for 1800 Mhz and Rs 10,170 crore for 2300 Mhz. Bharti Airtel said it has acquired 355.45 MHz across sub Ghz, mid band and 2300 MHz bands . Vodafone Idea Ltd (VI) placed bids for 11.8 Mhz in the auction. Vodafone Idea  said the spectrum acquired by it is in the five circles will help boost the company’s4G coverage and capacity. Jio and Bharti are also gearing to roll out 5G networks in India and conserving some funding fire power for that as well, sources said.. “RJIL’s spectrum has been acquired in the most cost efficient manner with an effective cost of Rs 60.8 crore per MHz.  The acquired spectrum can be utilised for transition to 5G services at the appropriate time, where Jio has developed its own 5G stack,” the largest telecom operator said in a statement. Mukesh D Ambani, Chairman, Reliance Industries, said, “Jio has revolutionised the digital landscape of India with the country becoming the fastest adopter of Digital Life. We want to ensure that we keep on enhancing experiences, not only for our existing customers, but also for the next 300 million users that will move to digital services. With our increased spectrum footprint, we are ready to further expand the digital footprint in India as well as get ourselves ready for the imminent 5G rollout.” He had earlier announced plans to launch 5G services in the country in the middle of this year. Gopal Vittal, MD & CEO (India & South Asia), Bharti Airtel said it now has a solid spectrum portfolio that will enable it to continue delivering the best mobile broadband experience in India. We are most excited at bringing the power of Airtel services to an additional 90 million customers in India through the power of our Pan India Sub GHz footprint." “Despite the large amount of spectrum made available, the 700 MHz band did not get any bid from the operators as it made no economic case for them based on the high reserve prices. The 700 MHz band coupled with the 3.5 GHz band has the potential to accelerate India's progress to the top league of digitally enabled nations. Therefore, the reserve pricing of these bands must be addressed on priority in future. This will help the nation to benefit from the digital dividend that will inevitably arise out of this,” he added. Vodafone Idea Limited said it has acquired spectrum in the 5 circles which will further help it to enhance 4G coverage and capacity, enabling superior digital experience for its customers. “In the next few years, the industry is readying to deploy 5G technology with India specific use cases. We are hopeful that a larger quantum of spectrum in globally harmonised bands, will be made available for all operators in the future as well as it would be at fair prices that allows operators to have the ability to rapidly roll out networks," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-121
03-03-2021||Business||Finance ministry considering cutting excise duties on petrol and diesel||India’s finance ministry is considering cutting excise duties on petrol and diesel to cushion the impact of record high domestic prices, three government officials close to the discussions said. A doubling in the price of crude oil over the past 10 months has contributed to record fuel prices in the country. But taxes and duties account for roughly 60 per cent of the retail price of petrol and diesel in the country, the world’s third biggest consumer of crude oil. As the coronavirus pandemic hit economic activity, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government twice raised taxes on petrol and diesel in the last 12 months to boost sagging tax revenues instead of passing on the benefits of low oil prices last year to consumers. The finance ministry has now started consultations with some states, oil companies and the oil ministry to find the most effective way to lower the tax burden on consumers without federal finances taking a big hit, the sources said. “We are discussing ways in which prices can be kept stable. We will be able to take a view of the issue by mid-March,” said one of the sources. The sources, who asked not to be named as the deliberations are private, said the government wants oil prices to stabilise before cutting taxes, as it does not want to be forced to change the tax structure again, should crude prices rise further. India’s finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman recently said: “I can’t say when we will reduce taxes on fuel, but (the) Centre and states have to talk to reduce fuel taxes”. India’s finance ministry and the oil ministry did not respond to an email requesting comment. The high fuel prices have prompted some Indian states to cut state-level taxes on petrol and diesel to rein in prices. Another one of the sources said a decision on fuel taxes may only be made following a meeting of Opec and major oil producers, also known as Opec+, later this week. “There is an expectation that Opec+ would agree to ease oil output curbs, we hope oil prices will stabilise after their decision,” this source said. India has called on Opec+ to ease production cuts as higher crude prices are hitting fuel demand in Asia’s third largest economy and are contributing to inflation. The high fuel prices could also affect Modi’s popularity ahead of state assembly polls in four states in March and April. Modi and the BJP are already facing their biggest political challenge in years with tens of thousands of farmers protesting against three farm laws passed by his government in 2020. The federal government and states together raised some Rs 5.56 lakh crore in revenues from the petroleum sector in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020, based on government data. Reuters In the nine months of this fiscal year (April-December 2020), contributions from the sector were about Rs 4.21 lakh crore, despite a significant decline in local fuel demand, the data showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-121
03-03-2021||India||SC seeks NIA's response on bail plea of activist Gautam Navlakha||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought a response from the National Investigation Agency on the bail plea of activist Gautam Navlakha in the alleged Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case. A bench headed by Justice U U Lalit issued notice to the probe agency on the plea of the activist against the Bombay High Court order of February 8 dismissing his bail plea. The bench took note of the brief submission of senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for Navlakha, and asked NIA to respond by March 15. According to police, some activists allegedly made inflammatory speeches and provocative statements at the Elgar Parishad meet in Pune on December 31, 2017, which triggered violence at Koregaon Bhima in the district the next day. The high court had said that "it sees no reason to interfere with a special court's order which earlier rejected his bail plea".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-297
03-03-2021||India||Mozilla, Internet Society express concern over Indian IT rules||Mozilla and the US-based Internet Society have expressed concerns over the new IT rules for social media platforms, saying the rules could harm end-to-end encryption, substantially increase surveillance, promote automated filtering and prompt a fragmentation of the internet that would hurt users. Mozilla, the not-for-profit company behind the popular web browser Firefox, cautioned that the new rules could have a series of unintended consequences on the health of the internet as a whole. "While many of the most onerous provisions only apply to 'significant social media intermediaries' (a new classification scheme), the ripple effects of these provisions will have a devastating impact on freedom of expression, privacy and security," it said in a blogpost. Mozilla also flagged "harsh" content take down and data sharing timelines under the new rules and said provisions on traceability could break end-to-end encryption that would "weaken overall security and harm privacy". The new rules for intermediaries, announced last week, are aimed at addressing concerns like lack of grievance redressal, fake news and online safety of users amid rampant misuse of social media platforms. The regulations distinguish between 'social media intermediaries' and 'significant social media intermediaries' with 50 lakh registered users as the threshold for the categorisation. Significant social media intermediaries will have to follow additional due diligence, including the appointment of a chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer, and all three officials should reside in India. Industry watchers have raised concerns that these new rules could raise compliance costs for players, making it difficult for smaller companies to compete against bigger giants like Facebook and Google. The Internet Society -- an American non-profit organisation that aims to promote open development, evolution, and use of the internet -- said any attempts to weaken encryption could undermine the digital security of individuals. Noelle Francesca De Guzman, Senior Advisor (Policy and External Engagement) at the Internet Society said the Indian government must protect the security and privacy of millions of people across India and preserve uncompromised end-to-end encryption. "Over 500 million citizens use end-to-end encrypted messaging apps in India and they rely on strong encryption to keep their communications safe and private," Guzman said. After the rules were spelt out last week, industry body Nasscom had noted that it is imperative that there is a balance between regulation and innovation as the world is in a phase of accelerated technology shifts. The industry body had also pointed out that there is a need for "responsible use" and building of technology for all stakeholders -- government, industry, startups and citizens. The option of voluntary self-verification of user accounts, the right to receive an explanatory notification on removal or disablement of access, and to seek remedy against the action being taken by the intermediaries would be helpful for end users, Nasscom had said. The association had also said the government has emphasised that the new rules will not curb creativity, and freedom of speech and expression of citizens as it urged the government to ensure that this is the 'design principle' followed during implementation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-297
03-03-2021||India||Covaxin 81% effective, works against UK variant, says Bharat Biotech||Vaccine major Bharat Biotech on Wednesday said its Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, has demonstrated an interim vaccine efficacy of 81 per cent in the Phase 3 clinical trials. The trials involved 25,800 subjects, the largest ever conducted in India, in partnership with the Indian Council of Medical Research, the Hyderabad-based company said in a statement. Interim analysis also showed that severe, serious, and medically attended adverse events occurred at low levels and were balanced between vaccine and placebo groups, Bharat Biotech said. The company also said that "analysis from the National Institute of Virology indicates that vaccine-induced antibodies can neutralise the UK variant strains and other heterologous strains". This data, though, has yet to be peer-reviewed. “Today is an important milestone in vaccine discovery, for science and our fight against coronavirus. With today’s results from our Phase 3 clinical trials, we have now reported data on our Covid-19 vaccine from Phase 1, 2, and 3 trials involving around 27,000 participants. “Covaxin demonstrates high clinical efficacy trend against Covid-19 but also significant immunogenicity against the rapidly emerging variants,” said Dr Krishna Ella, Chairman and Managing Director, Bharat Biotech. In a press release, Bharat Biotech explained the way in which Covaxin works. “BBV152 contains a whole virion inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine, which is produced in Vero cells. It is stable at 2 to 8°C (refrigerated) and is shipped in a ready-to-use liquid formulation that permits distribution using existing vaccine supply chain channels. BBV152 has a 28-day open vial policy as a unique product characteristic, thus reducing vaccine wastage by approximately 10-30%,” it said. “BBV152 is based on an established manufacturing platform with a better safety profile when compared to other vaccine platforms. The inclusion of the Algel-IMDG adjuvant enhances T-cell immune responses to Covid-19, leading to long-term protection,” it further said. The Phase 3 study enrolled 25,800 participants between 18-98 years of age, including 2,433 over the age of 60 and 4,500 with comorbidities. The primary endpoint of Phase 3 clinical trial is based on the first occurrence of PCR-confirmed symptomatic (mild, moderate, or severe) Covid-19 with onset at least 14 days after the second study vaccination in serologically negative (to SARS-CoV-2) adult participants at baseline. The first interim analysis is based on 43 cases, of which 36 cases of Covid-19 were observed in the placebo group versus 7 cases observed in the BBV152 (Covaxin) group, resulting in a point estimate of vaccine efficacy of 80.6%. Bharat Biotech expects to share further details of the trial results as additional data become available. An additional interim analysis is planned for 87 cases, and the final analysis is planned for 130 cases. All data from the second interim and final analyses will be shared via pre-publication servers as well as submitted to a peer-reviewed journal for publication. “I want to thank every one of the participants, who volunteered to participate in this vital clinical trial, our partners, principal investigators across 25 study sites, and our team at Bharat Biotech who dedicated their time to this vaccine discovery,” said Suchitra Ella, Joint Managing Director, Bharat Biotech. Covaxin and Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield are the two vaccines that are being administered in the country. The emergency approval of Covaxin raised eyebrows as it had not passed the Phase III trials when it received the green signal from the DCGI in January. Congress leaders including Shashi Tharoor, Anand Sharma and Jairam Ramesh raised concerns about the “premature” approval of Covaxin for restricted emergency use. BJP national president JP Nadda accused the Congress and other opposition parties of trying to cause panic among people to further their “failed politics and nefarious agendas”. “Congress and the Opposition is not proud of anything Indian. They should introspect about how their lies on the Covid-19 vaccine will be used by vested interest groups for their own agendas,” he said in a series of tweets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-297
03-03-2021||India||Centre lifts time restrictions on receiving Covid shots||The government has lifted the time restriction on receiving Covid-19 vaccine jabs so as to increase the pace of immunisation, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Wednesday. People can now get vaccinated round-the-clock according to their convenience, he said in a tweet, adding that Prime Minister Narendra Modi values the health as well as the time of the citizens of the country. "The government has lifted the time restriction to increase the speed of vaccination. People can now get vaccinated 24x7 according to their convenience. Prime Minister Narendra Modi understands the value of health as well as the time of citizens," Vardhan tweeted in Hindi. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan told a press conference on Tuesday that the timeline of vaccinating the beneficiaries from 9 am to 5 pm has been done away with and it is up to the hospitals to decide whether they want to continue administering the vaccines even after that. "Co-WIN 2.0 does not provide 9 am-5 pm vaccination sessions. It has done away with that timeline. If a hospital has the capacity, the system permits it to do vaccination even after 5 pm in consultation with the state government. This has been briefed both to the state governments as well as the private and government hospitals," he said. The second dose of the vaccine against Covid-19 started being administered from February 13 for those who have completed 28 days since the receipt of the first dose. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started on February 2. The next phase of the Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specific comorbid conditions. More than 1.56 crore (1,56,20,749) vaccine doses were administered in the country through 3,12,188 sessions, according to a provisional report till Wednesday 7 am. The beneficiaries include 67,42,187 healthcare workers (first dose), 27,13,144 HCWs (second dose), 55,70,230 FLWs (first dose), 834 FLWs (second dose), 71,896 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific comorbidities (first dose) and 5,22,458 beneficiaries aged above 60 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-297
03-03-2021||India||SC bins plea against Farooq Abdullah for comments on Article 370||Observing that expression of views that are different from the opinion of the government cannot be termed as seditious, the Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed a PIL seeking action against National Conference president Farooq Abdullah over his comments on abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta rejected the plea and also imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 on the petitioners for making such claims. "Expression of views which are different from the opinion of the government cannot be termed as seditious," the bench observed. The top court was hearing a plea which referred to his statement on restoring Article 370, which gave special status to Jammu and Kashmir, and contended it clearly amounts to a seditious act and therefore he is liable to be punished under section 124-A of the IPC. The petition filed by Rajat Sharma and Dr Neh Srivastava, both belonging to an organisation Vishwa Guru India Vision of Sardar Patel, alleged that the former chief minister is trying to "hand over" Kashmir to China and thus, he should be prosecuted for Sedition. "Mr Farooq Abdullah has committed an offence punishable under section 124-A of Indian Penal Code. As he has made the live statement that for restoring Article 370 he would take help of China which clearly amount to seditious act and therefore he is liable to be punished under section 124-A of the IPC," the plea said. The petitioners also referred to a statement made by BJP Spokesperson Sambit Patra to claim that Abdullah is misleading the people of Jammu and Kashmir to join China for the restoration of Article 370 of the Constitution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-297
03-03-2021||India||BJP fails to open account in Delhi municipal bypolls||The AAP on Wednesday won four of the five civic wards in Delhi in a bypoll, with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal asserting that people were desperate to bring the party to power in the three municipal corporations in the national capital. The AAP, however, suffered a shock defeat in the minority-dominated Chauhan Bangar ward, where Chaudhary Zubair Ahmad of the Congress defeated the party's candidate Mohammad Ishraq Khan by a whopping margin of 10,642 votes. The BJP failed to open its account in the bypolls, being seen as the semi-final ahead of the civic polls due in 2022, and even lost the Shalimar Bagh seat held by it to the AAP. "We honour the mandate given by people. Losing Shalimar Bagh North is a matter of introspection. The shortcomings will be removed and I am sure BJP will win the elections for three municipal corporations in 2022," said Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta. The AAP candidates won from Kalyanpuri, Rohin-C, Trilokpuri and Shalimar Bagh North wards. According to the State Election Commission, the AAP polled the highest 46.10 per cent votes in the bypolls, followed by 27.29 per cent by the BJP and 21.84 per cent by the Congress. "The people of Delhi have once again voted in the name of work. Congratulations to all. The people are fed up with misrule of the BJP at MCD for 15 years. People are desperate to bring the AAP to rule the MCD," Kejriwal tweeted after the party's victory. AAP candidate Dhirender Kumar won the Kalyanpuri ward by 7,043 votes. The party candidate Vijay Kumar from Trilokpuri defeated BJP's Om Prakash by a margin of 4,986 votes. AAP's Sunita Mishra defeated Surbhi Jaju of the BJP in Shalimar Bagh ward by 2,705 votes. The seat was earlier held by the BJP. Ram Chander of the AAP defeated BJP candidate Rakesh Goyal by 2,985 votes in Rohini C ward. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia in a tweet congratulated the party workers for the victory and said people were fed up with the BJP and would bring in Kejriwal's politics of honesty and work, in MCD polls next year. The AICC incharge of Delhi Congress Sh Aktisinh Gohil said party candidate Chaudhary Zubair Ahmad's record victory reflected affection of people and hard work by Congress candidates. Ahmad's victory margin was the highest in the bypolls for the five wards. "Congress candidate Chaudhary Zubair Ahmad won from Chauhan Bangar ward by a record-breaking margin of over 10,000 votes in municipal corporation bypolls. This is a victory of affection of Delhi people, their confidence in our young candidate and hard work by Congress workers and leaders," Gohil tweeted. More than 50 per cent votes were cast in the bypolls for the five municipal wards held on February 28.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-297
03-03-2021||India||Income tax raids on actor Taapsee Pannu, director Anurag Kashyap||The Income Tax Department on Wednesday raided premises linked to the filmmakers, including Anurag Kashyap, who launched the now dissolved production house Phantom Films, Reliance Entertainment group CEO Shibhashish Sarkar and Bollywood actor Taapsee Pannu, officials said. The searches are being carried out in over 30 locations in Mumbai and Pune, officials said. Some executives of celebrity and talent management company KWAN are also being raided. The action is part of a tax evasion probe against Phantom Films, which was dissolved in 2018, and its then promoters Kashyap, director-producer Vikramaditya Motwane, producer Vikas Bahl and producer-distributor Madhu Mantena, they said. Sources said some inter-linked transactions between the entities searched are under the scanner of the department and the raids are aimed at gathering more evidence to further probe tax evasion allegations. Founded in 2011, Phantom Films produced films such as "Lootera", "Queen", "Ugly", "NH 10", "Masaan" and "Udta Punjab". Kashyap later launched a new production company called Good Bad Films while Motwane launched Andolan Films. The searches against Mantena are also being carried out in context of his links with KWAN, of which he was a co-promoter. Pannu, 33, has worked in numerous Hindi, Tamil and Telugu movies. Both Anurag Kashyap and Taapsee Pannu have been outspoken critics of the government and have spoken up against various causes, including the ongoing farmer protests against three farm laws. Recently, Taapsee had criticised the show of solidarity by celebrities towards the government in response to pop star Rihanna's post drawing attention to the farmers' agitation. The actor took a jibe at the pushback and said it was better to focus on strengthening one's own value system if one tweet rattled one's belief. "If one tweet rattles your unity, one joke rattles your faith or one show rattles your religious belief, then it's you who has to work on strengthening your value system not become propaganda teachers for others," Pannu had said on social media last month. Anurag Kashyap had been vocal about condemning the violence against anti-Citizenship Act protesters in 2019. Last year, he had expressed support for actor Rhea Chakraborty in the Sushant Singh Rajput case and had slammed Bollywood actors for not speaking up enough on the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-297
03-03-2021||India||Mayawati slams UP govt over law and order situation in state||Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati on Wednesday attacked the Uttar Pradesh government over the law and order situation in the state, and accused it of adopting an insensitive attitude even in serious cases. "Every type of crime is at its peak in Uttar Pradesh and there is a very bad state of crime control," she charged. "Everyone is concerned about painful and embarrassing incidents of Dalit and women harassment. Even in such serious cases, the insensitive and negligence of government is unfortunate," the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said in a tweet in Hindi. She also targeted the BJP government at the Centre over the issue of Dalit rights. "Dalit oppression and murder of a man in Hathras and ruthless killing of a Dalit RTI activist in Gujarat prove that lives of Dalits, oppressed and women are not safe under the BJP government like in previous Congress regime. The government should immediately take notice of this," she added. Her remarks come in the backdrop of a 50-year-old man being shot dead in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras district allegedly by a man accused of molesting the victim's daughter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-298
03-03-2021||India||Doors ajar in several sectors for talented youths, says Modi||Doors are being opened for talented youth in several sectors such as space, atomic energy and agriculture as limiting knowledge and research is a big injustice to the country's potential, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday. Addressing a webinar on implementation of the Union Budget provisions in the education sector, he said the new National Education Policy has encouraged the use of local language and now it is the responsibility of all academics and experts of every language to prepare the best content available in the country and the world in Indian languages. "This is definitely possible in this era of technology," he asserted. Modi said education, skill, research and innovation were the second biggest focus of budget after health. "The Union Budget has broadened our efforts to link education with employability and entrepreneurial capability," he said. "As a result of these efforts, India today is among the top three countries in terms of scientific publications," Modi said. Limiting knowledge and research is a big injustice to the country's potential, the prime minister said. "With this thinking, doors of several sectors such as space, atomic energy, DRDO, agriculture, are being opened for our talented youth," Modi said. To build a self-reliant India, confidence in the youth of the country is important, he said, asserting that confidence only comes when the youth has complete faith in their education and knowledge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-298
03-03-2021||India||India logs almost 15,000 fresh Covid cases, 98 casualties in a day||India's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 1,11,39,516 with 14,989 new infections, while the active cases were recorded above 1.7 lakh after a month, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll increased to 1,57,346 with 98 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The COVID-19 active caseload has increased to 1,70,126 which comprises 1.53 per cent of the total infections, the data stated. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,08,12,044 which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.06 per cent, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.41 per cent. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 21,84,03,277 samples have been tested up to March 2 with 7,85,220 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 98 new fatalities include 54 from Maharashtra, 16 from Kerala and 10 from Punjab. A total of 1,57,346 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 52,238 from Maharashtra followed by 12,502 from Tamil Nadu, 12,343 from Karnataka, 10,911 from Delhi, 10,270 from West Bengal, 8,728 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,169 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-298
03-03-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Livelihood is hit but solidarity endures||The hair on the arms of Sonu Singh and Lucky Singh — friends from Punjab’s Nawanshahr who run a laundromat at the Singhu protest site of farmers — has turned blonde and their skin has begun to peel off because of constant exposure to soap water. The work hazard does not seem to bother Sonu and Lucky, who have rallied behind the protesters against the new farm laws. They are grateful for the electricity and water given to them by a resident of Haryana’s Kundli village who does not want to be named for fear of harassment by authorities of the BJP-ruled state. Although the protest site is better known as Singhu, the name of a village in Delhi (the highway to which is barricaded), it falls almost entirely in Kundli in Haryana’s Sonipat district. Sonu told The Telegraph: “We were plumbers. We don’t have farms, but we have the spirit. When the protest started, we brought two machines from our homes. The organisers of the protest donated two more, and people donate detergent. Around 25kg of detergent is used every day and as the load is high, we constantly have to assist the machine with our hands.” He added: “A person who has stood with us from the beginning is the Haryanvi brother who gives the electricity and water. He has asked us to even use his bathroom and sleep in his house if we need to. His business has been down since we came here, yet he is bearing this expense.” Harmandeep Singh and other protesters from Ludhiana’s Lalton village have set up a small shed with a wood-heated boiler, and a toilet and bathroom connected to an underground sewer, right in front of a glass godown. This stretch of National Highway 44 is dotted with godowns and factories. “The owner of the godown is most helpful. The electricity is from him. Whenever he needs to bring in goods, I reverse our car parked in front and we make space for his vehicles to come in…. There is economic hardship for all of us but when it comes to your conscience, money doesn’t matter,” Harmandeep said. The movement of any large vehicle on this stretch of almost 8km is impossible with most of the highway taken up by tractor trolleys. As a result, industrial production in several units has fallen, as have jobs. Cooperation from residents in the neighbourhood is key to the survival of this unprecedented and prolonged blockade of one of India’s busiest highways. The protesters are withstanding the elements, the risk of disease from poor sanitation and sewage facilities, and the uncertainty of a struggle without an end in sight. The residents face an economic crisis with their highway of prosperity rendered unusable for the past three months. Kake, who prefers to be identified only by the term of endearment that Kundli residents use, had a thriving wholesale shop of disposable cups, plates and related items off NH44. The entrances to the row of shops have now been barricaded by Delhi police, and Kake makes a living selling tea in a bylane beside his shop. “Modi has made me a chaiwallah (which the Prime Minister says he once was). Yet, whenever I have questioned farmers over the prolonged protest that has snatched my livelihood, they call me a Modi-wallah,” Kake told this newspaper. A resident of Narela in Delhi nearby, Kake said that free langar meals were good for day labourers who had lost their jobs but for businessmen like him each day of work away from his trade was pulling him deeper into debt. “It is hard for any person with self-respect to eat free food every day. The farmers are generous and friendly, but I want to earn my living. When we talk to local politicians or the police, they keep saying that this will end in two days. I don’t know whom to expect any solution from any time soon as the government won’t withdraw its laws, the farmers their protest and the police their barricades,” Kake said. Dharmendar earns daily wages and also drives an electric autorickshaw, the most popular mode of transport to reach the protest site after the elaborate barricading of the highway. He said: “Most of my rides are people going to the protest, and locals don’t travel to that side now as the shops and malls are shut because of the blockade. Jobs are fewer now as raw material can’t come into factories on the protest stretch.” The Rai Assembly constituency office of the Indian National Lok Dal has been transformed into a place to rest for protesters. The party’s leader, Ashok Kaushik, told this newspaper that despite problems, the general will of the local population is to support the farmers. “People can’t go out as the road is jammed. Some 1 lakh people used this highway for their daily commute. The route is now longer and through smaller roads. There is discomfort, but there is an overwhelming sense of solidarity with these people because their cause is right, and we are all basically farmers. They have the capacity to make this struggle succeed and we have the capacity to support them,” Kaushik said. Kake, Kaushik and Dharmendar are unanimous that no resident had thrown stones at farmers on January 30, when the protest site was attacked by what sections of the administration and the media had described as “locals angry with the insult to the national flag by farmers on Republic Day”. While the police had described them as “local villagers”, Delhi’s ruling Aam Aadmi Party had identified three of them as BJP activists from other parts of Delhi. “What I like about these protesters is they are polite. That’s how they have maintained good relations with us locals,” Dharmendar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-298
03-03-2021||India||Chinese army continues to strengthen position at Ladakh's Depsang Plains||A ground assessment by the Indian security establishment suggests that the Chinese army is continuing to strengthen its position at Ladakh’s Depsang Plains, where the Chinese are entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines. “A recent ground assessment has suggested massive build-up by the PLA at the Depsang Plains. The People’s Liberation Army (the Chinese army) has continued to strengthen its positions by setting up additional military camps inside India-claimed lines amid the ongoing dialogue for disengagement from all friction points,” said a security official attached to the Union home ministry. India has been asserting that it is necessary to disengage from all friction points in order to contemplate de-escalation of forces in this sector and restoring peace and tranquillity along the Line of Actual Control. Last week India’s foreign ministry had underscored that both sides had always agreed that maintenance of peace and tranquillity in border areas was an essential basis for the development of bilateral relations. Under the disengagement process that began on February 10, India and China have moved back from their positions on the Pangong Lake’s north and south banks. The Chinese are said to have agreed to work towards an understanding on the disengagement process to be initiated at other friction points, including the Depsang Plains, Gogra and Hot Springs. “The PLA has continued to cut off the Indian Army’s access to five traditional patrolling points at the Depsang Plains — PPs 10, 11, 11A, 12 and 13 — since the border standoff in May last year. Considering the ground reality, the disengagement at the Depsang Plains is going to be a serious challenge,” said an Intelligence Bureau official. Security officials and military veterans have questioned the hurry with which India entered into an agreement with China without finalising the disengagement process from the Depsang Plains. They said that control of Depsang would allow China to threaten the Indian strategic airfield at Daulat Beg Oldie, located at an altitude of over 16,000ft. The DBO airstrip was built after the 1962 war to check Chinese incursions. The airstrip lies near the newly built and strategic Darbuk-Shyok-DBO Road that runs parallel to the LAC, meandering through elevations between 14,000ft and 16,000ft. The road connects Leh with the DBO at the base of the Karakoram Pass, which separates China’s Xinjiang Autonomous Region from Ladakh. China wants to dominate the road, which India’s army uses to support its soldiers deployed on the LAC. “The focus of the negotiation is now on the Depsang Plains and the stalled disengagement at Hot Springs and Gogra. The Depsang Plains is strategically very crucial for the Indian Army. Talks are on both at the military and the diplomatic level to hammer out a solution,” said a defence ministry official. The two sides had last July agreed on disengaging from Hot Springs and Gogra but the Chinese went back on their word.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-298
03-03-2021||India||Under the radar, IIT Kharagpur anoints Syama Prasad Mookerjee||An IIT Kharagpur order has asked a doctor to oversee the administrative activities of “Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee Institute of Medical Sciences and Research” with “immediate effect”. The directive has prompted a section of teachers and alumni to point out that the medical establishment has been “surreptitiously” named after the Jana Sangh founder although President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam had in 2007 laid the foundation stone for a facility dedicated to Dr B.C. Roy, the builder of modern Bengal. The IIT director had last month said Prime Minister Narendra Modi would virtually inaugurate the Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee Institute of Medical Sciences and Research on February 23 on the occasion of the institute’s convocation. Amid a furore over the renaming, Modi did not inaugurate the medical institute on February 23 although no reason was cited. The inauguration plaque — on which “Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee Institute of Medical Sciences and Research” was written — was wrapped in a white piece of cloth after that. Now, the order signed by IIT registrar Tamal Nath says: “The undersigned is to convey that the director has been pleased to approve that… will oversee the administrative activities of Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee Institute of Medical Sciences and Research….” Nath, who had said last week that the inauguration was “deferred” for some “technical reasons”, signed an office order on March 1 that says: “Dr Prasanta Kumar Shannigrahi, Head, B.C. Roy Technology Hospital, will oversee the administrative activities of Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee Institute of Medical Sciences and Research… with immediate effect until further order.” The IIT now provides indoor and outdoor medical facilities for common ailments at the BC Roy Technology Hospital, located on the campus. The new facility, a superspeciality hospital and research centre, is outside the main campus. Ajay Kumar Roy, a former head of the school of medical science and research at IIT Kharagpur and among the signatories of a letter to the Prime Minister against the renaming, said Tuesday’s order had “surprised” them. “Since the Prime Minister did not inaugurate the hospital, we hoped that the superspecialty hospital would continue to be known as Dr B.C. Roy Institute of Medical Sciences and Research. But we are surprised by the contents of the order,” Roy told The Telegraph. “We explained to the PM why it would be incongruous to rename the facility, given the role Dr B.C. Roy had played in shaping this IIT,” he added. The recipients of the IIT’s office order include “all medical officers and staff members of Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee Institute of Medical Sciences and Research”. Sabyasachi Sengupta, a former professor of electrical engineering at IIT Kharapur, said: “This suggests that they have already got the facility registered afresh after Dr Syama Prasad Mookjerjee. It’s just that the plaque has not been unveiled. It will continue to baffle all why a facility was renamed after someone who has nothing to do with medicine.” Asked about the order, registrar Tamal Nath said on Tuesday: “It’s an internal administrative decision.” Asked whether the order signalled a formal renaming, he said: “An OPD facility is being run there for the past two months. The head of the existing BC Roy Technology Hospital will look after that only. That is our internal administrative decision.” Nath had earlier said the institute’s board of governors had approved the renaming. Calls and text messages from this newspaper to IIT director V.K. Tewari went unanswered. The superspeciality hospital has been built on an 18-acre plot at Balarampur, just outside the IIT campus, as part of the institute’ plan to open a medical college. A former student of IIT Kharagpur who had commented on the Facebook page of director Tewari against the renaming said: “Now we have to again launch another protest against this surreptitious renaming.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-298
03-03-2021||India||Vote against BJP and allies to ensure their defeat: Farmers||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha on Tuesday decided to give a call to farmers in all election-bound states to vote against the BJP and its allies to ensure their defeat, choosing Calcutta as the first rally pit stop. The SKM, the umbrella outfit of protesting farm unions, has made it clear that it would not campaign for any particular party. The SKM is preparing to try and inflict what farm union leader Yogendra Yadav had described as “vote ki chot” (hurt with votes) on the BJP and its allies in the five poll-set states of Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry. Detailing their plans for the elections after a day-long strategy meeting of the SKM general body at the Singhu border protest site, veteran farmer union leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said: “We will appeal to all farmers not to vote for the BJP and its allies. We will not support any party or campaign for any party, nor will we tell farmers who they should vote for. All we will do is appeal to them not to vote for those who brought the farm laws and have unleashed repression on farmers, and try best to vote in a manner that will ensure the defeat of the BJP and its allies.” Farm union leaders will be sent to all the five states to address at least one rally organised by their local partners to mobilise opinion. The first such rally will be held in Calcutta on March 12, Rajewal said. Yadav said Bengal would be the first stop because it goes to the hustings the earliest with the first phase of polling scheduled for March 27. From Calcutta, the union leaders are expected to go to all constituencies of the state to spread awareness on how the farm laws are detrimental for farmers. Simultaneously, across the country as harvesting begins and crops head for the markets, the SKM has asked farmers to start picketing the mandis (wholesale markets) to demand a minimum support price (MSP), which the government claims it is committed to giving. “It is time to hold the government to account over the Prime Minister’s claim that ‘MSP thi, MSP hai, MSP rahegi’ (MSP was there, MSP is there and MSP will remain). Since harvesting has begun in Karnataka where farmers are getting less than the MSP for chickpeas, ragi and groundnut, the ‘MSP Dilao’ (Give MSP) programme will be launched on March 5 in Karnataka at the big mandis in Gulbarga and Chitradurga,” Yadav said. All India Kisan Sabha leader Hannan Mollah said farmers at the protest sites were making arrangements to ensure that the harvesting of their standing crop went as scheduled while keeping the movement alive. Dharmendra Malik of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) said farmers would come and go in rotation to ensure that harvesting and the protest went hand in hand, pointing out that the mobilisation had gathered so much steam that the BJP’s workers were unable to enter villages in Uttar Pradesh to carry out the party’s planned outreach on the farm laws. The farmers have also decided to firm up the growing solidarity with workers by joining the trade union call for protest action on March 15 against corporatisation and privatisation. Many of the central trade unions have been backing the farmers’ protests whole-heartedly over the past few months. In order to mark 100 days of the farmers’ protests at Delhi’s borders on March 6, the SKM has given a call for a five-hour blockade of the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway. Elsewhere, farmers have been asked to express solidarity with those protesting at Delhi’s borders by flying black banners at their houses and offices, besides wearing black bands as a sign of protest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-298
03-03-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi: We will emerge from fire nicer, wiser||A question about global concern over the erosion of democracy in India drew a blunt response from Rahul Gandhi: “Not eroding, it is being strangled.” Rahul made the assertion in the course of his online conversation with Kaushik Basu, former chief economic adviser to the Government of India and now professor of economics at Cornell University in the US, on Tuesday. Basu referred to global concern over erosion of democracy in India, with the space for media, public debate and dissent shrinking and asked about Rahul’s views. Basu said muzzling of debate was a great concern as India was once considered one of the top countries in terms of freedom of speech. Rahul responded bluntly, in a manner that is typical of him: “It is much deeper than muzzling of debate. Muzzling of debate is one of the elements. The RSS is systematically attacking the institutions. Judiciary, media, bureaucracy, Election Commission are being filled with people of one ideology. It is not eroding, it is strangling. I didn’t realise how profound it is till I faced it…. It is a full-scale assault on democracy.” The former Congress president contended that the entire Opposition was fighting to protect India, not for power. He said: “Before 2014, we were fighting for power. The game has changed now. What is India? It is a negotiation. We agreed on a free and fair fight for power. There is no free and fair fight now.” He added: “But this is the best opportunity that India could have ever got to learn, to understand its weaknesses, to emerge stronger. India has to go through the fire to transform itself. There is going to be a cost. We will bear the cost. We will emerge nicer, wiser, more compassionate.” He explained the nature of threat — both social and political — by contending that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had ensured large funds were available with the RSS for penetration of institutions. He said that while the RSS was free to do whatever it wanted with education, with bureaucracy and with other institutions with the enormous funds, the same capitalists provided political cover to Modi using their media. “Beyond the bluster, what the RSS is doing is reinforce the concept of caste in India. It is reorganising society to show people their places — that the Dalit has this place, the Sikhs  this place, women have this place.” To a question about internal democracy in the Congress party, Rahul said: “You are asking this to a person who was pushing for internal elections for a decade. I got serious beating from my party and the media for holding elections in the Youth Congress. But why is this question not asked of other parties — the BJP,  BSP, the Samajwadi Party… etc? I am fine with it. It is more important for us to be democratic because our ideological formulation is ideology of the Constitution.” Asked about the Emergency, he said: “That was a mistake. My grandmother said it was a mistake. But the situation today is fundamentally different. The Congress never attempted to capture the institutional framework. The RSS is filling institutions with its people. If the BJP loses, we won’t be able to remove the RSS people from all institutions.” Discussing foreign policy, he lamented that India did not have a strategy and said: “The whole debate in India is what happened 300 years ago. There is memory and there is imagination. India is stuck in memory. China has imagination. We may not like it but it has a global strategy. Even in America, the (Donald) Trump slogan was — ‘Let us make America great again’. That was looking backwards. That means a failure has taken place.” Rahul cited  the massive concentration of capital, demonetisation and the attack on agriculture as the primary reasons for the economic collapse.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-298
03-03-2021||India||Priyanka's message to G-23: Don’t help BJP||The Congress leadership’s polite message to dissenters not to weaken the fight against the BJP at this critical juncture is actually a camouflaged warning against crossing the line, while astute political measures were also taken to check escalation of unrest in the party. The message was firmly delivered by Priyanka Gandhi who is on a tour of Assam. Priyanka, in response to a question about G-23 (the group of dissenters) and confusion about alliance with the ISF in Bengal, said: “We may not agree 100 per cent with what our alliance partners believe. But we are together in this fight. Every worker of the Congress understands this deeply ideological battle. Whoever stands with us in this fight, stands with us.” Soon after, party spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi in Delhi said: “Each valued colleagues should join us to fight against the BJP, not to weaken the fight against the BJP. Every Congress leader should unite.” On a question about Bengal alliance, Singhvi said: “The Congress got the seats it bargained for. A large secular front has been created to fight the BJP.” Singhvi added: “The BJP has the gall to call others communal. The BJP which pursues gunda politics claims to be secular and accuses others of communalism.” Jammu & Kashmir Congress chief Ghulam Ahmed Mir also rushed to Delhi to discuss with the high command the remarks of veteran leader Ghulam Nabi Azad that were not received well in the state. Mir said the Jammu gathering of dissenters was avoidable, but there still was hope because they spoke against the BJP. But the hopes were dashed later as Azad praised the Prime Minister, he added. The BJP link, injected into the discourse by Azad’s praise of Modi, and Priyanka’s message appeared to have created some impact on the dissenters. Anand Sharma, one of the key members of G-23 who publicly questioned the Bengal alliance, on Tuesday said: “We wish the Congress candidates the best and we will campaign in poll-bound states if we are asked to.” “We want to strengthen the party, we are for united Congress. We don’t want anything which will weaken the party.” The G-23 has indisputably depleted and now barely 10 leaders are inclined to pursue the agenda. While Veerappa Moily, one of the G-23 members, publicly stated that he was no more part of it, Prithviraj Chavan also dissociated with the group by accepting the assignment for Assam as the screening committee chairman. Shashi Tharoor and Jitin Prasada too have dissociated from the group and are working in the Assembly elections.Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday demolished the charge that Rahul Gandhi’s coterie was running the show despite not being in charge, appointing veteran Digvijaya Singh as the head of the screening committee for Tamil Nadu and J.P. Agarawal for the committee on Bengal. None of these leaders is known to be close to Rahul and were both feeling slighted for the last couple of years. Another sulking veteran from Goa, Francisco Sardinha, was included in the screening committee for Tamil Nadu. The party is carefully working on a plan to isolate the key members of G-23. While Azad does have some clout in Jammu & Kashmir, the only other member whose exit will have a significant bearing on the party’s fortunes is former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda. While others like Anand Sharma, Kapil Sibal and Manish Tewari are valuable assets for the party, their capacity to inflict electoral damages is minimal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-298
03-03-2021||India|| Allow all private hospitals to serve as Covid vaccination spots: Centre||The Centre on Tuesday asked states to allow all private hospitals with required facilities to serve as Covid-19 vaccination centres while the number of people registered for the shots doubled to 5 million from 2.5 million on Monday. The Union health ministry said states may permit private hospitals not empanelled under central or state health schemes to provide vaccinations if they have vaccinators, adequate space, refrigeration and arrangements for managing adverse events following immunisation. Health officials expect the entry of more private hospitals to accelerate the vaccination campaign that expanded on Monday to include age-linked priority groups from the general population through over 10,000 government and 12,500 private hospitals. The number of eligible people — 60 years or older as on January 1, 2022, or those between 45 and 60 years with any of 20 chronic health disorders — who have registered for vaccines increased on Tuesday to over 5 million. Over 434,000 of those above 60 and 60,000 between 45 and 60 had received vaccines up to 7pm on Tuesday. The health ministry said there was no shortage of Covid-19 vaccines and states had been asked to allocate adequate doses of vaccines to the vaccination centres. The health ministry has also asked states to ensure that 100 per cent of capacities of empanelled private hospitals are used in the campaign. Private hospitals have the flexibility to schedule their own vaccination timetables through the day without any restrictions on timings, health officials said. States in consultation with private hospitals should open vaccination slots for 15 days to a month, the ministry said. The nationwide vaccination drive is intended to accelerate India’s move towards herd immunity — a point at which such a large fraction of the population is protected through either vaccines or natural infections that the epidemic stops. The move to speed up the campaign comes amid what health officials have described as a marginal yet worrying increase in the number of daily new Covid-19 cases, driven primarily by surges in Maharashtra, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh. The country’s seven-day average of daily new cases has increased from about 8,600 in early February to 12,200 over the past week. Other states with rising counts include Gujarat and Haryana. “At least one reason for the rise in some states is gatherings, weddings and parties,” Vinod Paul, the chair of the national expert group for Covid-19 vaccination administration and member of Niti Aayog, the government’s apex think tank. “We need to protect ourselves from these. We’re not in a stage where we can change our behaviour. These could be superspreading events,” Paul said, adding that there was no evidence yet to attribute the observed surge in cases to any unusual coronavirus variants. The vaccination campaign had until Tuesday evening inoculated over 6.7 million healthcare workers and 5.5 million frontline workers with their first doses. Gujarat, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Ladakh and Tamil Nadu have vaccinated 100 per cent of their healthcare workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-298
03-03-2021||India||Manipur: Congress protest against BJP||The Congress has alleged that the “illegal” BJP government in Manipur has been sustained because of dereliction of duty by constitutional authorities like the Election Commission of India and the state governor. Addressing a news conference, along with Manipur legislators and former chief minister Ibobi Singh, Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said: “The BJP formed its government at the very outset by offering allurements to our MLAs. They were made parliament secretaries. They were removed after a few months, as they knew the appointments were illegal. But the MLAs stood disqualified under the office-of-profit law.” Singhvi added: “The Congress moved a petition for their qualification. But the deliberate delays sustained the illegal government. The governor asked the Election Commission. It sat on the petition. Now it has sent its recommendations to the governor. The governor may take a few more months....”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-299
03-03-2021||India||Christians up in arms as Lok Sabha MP ties cross to benefits||Christians are up in arms against a Karnataka BJP Lok Sabha member who had recently suggested that officials deny government benefits to tribal people who wear the cross. After staging a protest on Monday against the comment made by Lok Sabha MP from Mysore-Kodagu Pratap Simha, Christians have decided to write to the Prime Minister and the chief minister against the remark that could end up denying much-needed government benefits to impoverished tribals. Simha recently stoked controversy by directing tribal welfare officials that those who wear the Christian cross should be denied government benefits like rations. As reported by the media, his remarks came at a tri-monthly review meeting in Mysore a week ago. The MP questioned the officials over “rampant religious conversions” in the area. “If you are distributing rations properly, why are conversions rampant in the area?” the New Indian Express newspaper had quoted him as saying. Simha cited discussions in Parliament to tell the officials that such benefits must not be given to those who have converted to other religions. He was apparently alluding to the recent reply by law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad to a question in the Rajya Sabha that Dalit converts to Christianity and Islam would not be eligible to contest from reserved constituencies, while converts to Hindu, Sikh and Buddhist faiths would make the cut. The Karnataka Christian Political Leaders Forum has raised strong objections to Simha’s remark, citing the dangers involved in such a discriminatory stand. “Our Prime Minister talks about ‘sabka sath, sabka vikas’ and yet here’s a Parliament member from the same party who is urging officials to deny government benefits to poor tribal people who wear the cross,” the convenor of the forum, Vikram Anthony, told The Telegraph on Tuesday. The organisation that held a protest in Bangalore on Monday evening will write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Karnataka chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday. “This is such a dangerous statement since one can only imagine the ramifications if the officials really take his (Simha’s) words seriously and stop rations and other benefits to the poor tribal people who are already struggling to eke out a living,” Anthony said. He noted that the discriminatory remarks of Simha were a violation of the fundamental rights of Christians. “It is every Indian citizen’s fundamental right to choose and profess his or her religion. So this is a brazen attack on our personal liberty enshrined in the Constitution,” he said, adding that Christians were among those who had worked and voted for Simha. “He should realise that Christians have also worked for and voted for him. So he represents everyone, irrespective of religion, caste or creed, in his constituency,” Anthony said. Tribal people in over 150 hamlets in Mysore district mostly work as labourers and gather forest produce like honey for their livelihood. Among the BJP hardliners, Simha is not a stranger to controversies. He had to apologise to actor Prakash Raj over a defamatory tweet in 2019. Simha could not be reached for comments as calls to his mobile phone went unanswered. Spokesperson of the Archdiocese of Bangalore J.A. Kanthraj demanded an apology from Simha. “The entire Christian community is deeply hurt by these disparaging comments and demands an unconditional apology and withdrawal of the statement,” Kanthraj told this newspaper. “It is sad that being a member of Parliament he is oblivious to the rights and the freedom accorded by the Constitution to practice one’s religion without fear,” Kanthraj said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-299
03-03-2021||India||Set up CCTVs at interrogation cells of investigating agencies: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday made it clear to the government that it had no choice but to implement the December 2020 order mandating CCTVs at all interrogation cells of investigating agencies. A bench of Justices R.F. Nariman and B.R. Gavai pointed out that the Centre was dragging its feet on the issue as it rejected solicitor-general Tushar Mehta’s argument that the installation of CCTVs would have “wider ramifications”. “You will implement it. It is not a question of anything. This is a question of the rights of citizens under Article 21 (life and personal liberty). This has to be implemented and we will ensure it is implemented. There is no choice you have in this. We are giving you three weeks. You file your compliance,” Justice Nariman, heading the bench, told Mehta while adjourning the matter to April 6, by which time the Centre is expected to file a compliance report. The bench was livid after being informed by amicus curiae and senior advocate Sidharth Dave that most states had expressed difficulty in implementing the December 2 directions citing lack of budgetary resources. When Mehta sought adjournment on Tuesday by citing a letter circulated among officials that the government wanted to examine the issue further, the bench was upset. The December 2 directions were passed by the apex court after taking suo motu cognisance of rising instances of custodial deaths. Mehta said he wanted a further adjournment as the Centre had certain reservations as the installation of CCTVs in interrogation cells and premises of central agencies would have “wider ramifications”. He, however, did not elaborate. Justice Nariman pointed out that at the last hearing on January 27 also the Centre had obtained a three-week adjournment. “You have done nothing. You have not filed an affidavit. So you are dragging your feet on this,” he said. Mehta replied: “We are setting up an oversight committee….” But the argument did not cut ice with the bench, which remarked: “Forget oversight committee and all that. You are directed under our order of December 2 in Para 19 specifically to install CCTV cameras…. For your benefit we will read it out.” The court had directed in paragraph 19: “The Union of India is also to file an affidavit in which it will update this Court on the constitution and workings of the Central Oversight Body (COB), giving full particulars thereof. In addition, the Union of India is also directed to install CCTV cameras and recording equipment in the offices of: (i) Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) (ii) National Investigation Agency (NIA) (iii) Enforcement Directorate (ED) (iv) Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) (v) Department of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) (vi) Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) (vii) Any other agency which carries out interrogations and has the power of arrest. As most of these agencies carry out interrogation in their office(s), CCTVs shall be compulsorily installed in all offices where such interrogation and holding of accused takes place in the same manner as it would in a police station. The COB shall perform the same function… for the offices of investigative/enforcement agencies mentioned above both in Delhi and outside Delhi wherever they be located.” After reading out the relevant paragraph, Justice Nariman observed: “You have done nothing absolutely and then you are saying ‘wider ramifications’. We want to know what have you really done? What ramifications? We are not concerned about the ramifications.” Mehta said: “We will file an affidavit. We will take steps to implement…” The bench cut short the argument, saying: “Our orders will be complied with….” The bench also took to task the states for expressing their inability to immediately comply with the judgment due to budgetary constraints. “We are not concerned with your budgetary allocations. We direct you to make the budgetary allocations,” the court said. Referring to Haryana, the court said: “You will make budgetary allocations within one month. And within three months after that allocation you will install the CCTVS and comply with the directions.” The bench, however, exempted the poll-bound states of Bengal, Assam, Kerala and Tamil Nadu and the Union Territory of Puducherry from complying with the directions in the next three-four months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-299
03-03-2021||India||Kangana Ranaut and Rangoli Chandel move Supreme Court seeking transfer of FIRs||Actress Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel have moved the Supreme Court seeking transfer of multiple FIRs registered against them  in Maharashtra to Himachal Pradesh over their tweets. The sisters  have accused the Shiv Sena government of witch hunting and acting with malafide against them. They are facing multiple FIRs in Maharashtra, which included a defamation suit filed by Bollywood lyricist Javed Akhtar. “It is pertinent to mention that all the FIRs and complaints in question are frivolous and have been filed with a malicious intent to harass the Petitioners herein and malign their public image. While, the petitioners have utmost respect for the courts of the country and are ready to face the trial as per law, but they apprehend that if the trials are conducted in Mumbai, there will be a material threat to life and property of the Petitioners herein. “It is pertinent to mention that the Maharashtra government led by Shiv Sena has been harassing the petitioners herein. It would not be out of context to mention that the Petitioner herein was called ‘Haramkhor Ladki’ by Sanjay Raut, who is a senior Shiv Sena leader and a Member of Parliament. “Further, on 09.09.2020, the Shiv Sena led Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) illegally demolished the Pali Hill Bungalow of the Petitioner No. 1(Kangana) herein. It is pertinent to mention that the Hon’ble High Court of Bombay declared the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) act of demolishing a part of petitioner No. 1’s bungalow illegal, and added that it smacked of malafide intentions,” the petition filed through advocate Neeraj Shehkar stated. The joint petition has challenged the FIR No. 8575/2020, lodged at Amboli Police Station, Mumbai filed by one Ali Kashif Khan Deshmukh, a lawyer, in which Rangoli through a tweet had adversely commented upon the alleged state of affairs in Mumbai following the attack on doctors who went for Corona check-up of the family of a man who died due to Corona. A team of doctors and medical staff was assaulted by a mob in Moradabad's Nawabganj area when they went to take away two suspected cases of the novel Coronavirus in the area on April 15, 2020 during the lockdown period. Various IPC sections were registered against Rangoli on the lawyer’s complaint for allegedly causing disaffection among the people etc. The second case related to a defamation complaint filed by  Javed Akhtar, against Kangana following her interview to Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami on July 20, 2020, in which she had allegedly questioned the integrity of the  renowned poet, lyricist and author of several screen plays. The third FIR for sedition related charges and causing disaffection among people was filed by one  Munawar Ali alias  Ashraf Ali,  for some of her tweets critical of the Maharashtra government. “These acts of the Maharashtra government, clearly shows that the Maharashtra government has malafide intentions against the Petitioners herein and that if the Petitioners visit Maharashtra to attend the said trials, there will be a constant threat to them from the Shiv Sena and Maharashtra government. “It is further pertinent to mention that looking at the threat perception of the Petitioner No. 1 herein, the Petitioner No. 1 was granted Y-plus category of CRPF security by the Home Ministry. Therefore, it becomes quite evident that the Petitioners face serious threat to life and property and if the trial of the cases are not transferred out of Mumbai, the Petitioners life will be at risk,” the petition said ,while seeking transfer of the cases to Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-299
03-03-2021||India||Facial recognition technologies overreach: Digital rights advocates||Facial recognition technologies installed in at least a dozen government-funded schools in Delhi are an “overreach” by Indian authorities and an invasion of children’s privacy, digital rights advocates said on Tuesday. The move to introduce facial recognition technology follows a 2019 decision by the Delhi government to mount CCTV cameras in more than 700 public schools to ensure the safety of students. The facial recognition systems are being installed without laws to regulate the collection and use of data, which is particularly worrying for children, said Anushka Jain, an associate counsel at Internet Freedom Foundation, a digital rights group that became aware of the rollout last week. “CCTV is already a violation of children’s privacy, even though some parents had supported it for the safety of their children... but the use of facial recognition technology is an overreach and is completely unjustified,” Jain said. “Its use for children is particularly problematic because the accuracy rate is so low — so in the event of a crime, you could have children being misidentified,” she told Reuters. Parents were unlikely to be aware of the risks related to potential data breaches and misuse, she added. Facial recognition technology is being increasingly deployed in airports, railway stations and cafes across India, with plans for a nationwide system to modernise the police force and its information gathering and criminal identification processes. But analysts say its benefits are not clear, and that it could breach people’s privacy or lead to greater surveillance, with few safeguards and little clarity on how the technology works, how the data is stored, and who can access it. A personal data protection law is being drafted by lawmakers. Facial recognition systems are often rolled out without a privacy policy or consent from guardians to collect and process the data of minors, said Prasanth Sugathan, legal director at Software Freedom Law Centre, a digital rights non-profit. “These could cause real harm to the children if the data is leaked, not to mention the impact of always-on surveillance of the children,” he said. “While many countries and states are looking at banning the use of facial recognition technology on children, schools in India seem to be adopting this with no thought about the problems it creates,” he said, noting New York state’s recent ban on its use. The Internet Freedom Foundation’s Project Panoptic tracks more than 40 facial recognition projects across the country, with Hyderabad, Chennai and Delhi among cities with the most surveillance networks in the world, according to tech site Comparitech. “India is turning to technology for everything — it’s not necessarily a bad thing, as technology can make some things better and more efficient,” Jain said. “But the government is not assessing the impacts of all of these technologies, or is ignoring their potential for harm.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-299
03-03-2021||India||Hathras incident: Father of molested girl shot dead ||Alleged molesters of a woman in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras district have been accused of shooting dead her father after tormenting the family for over two years for lodging a police complaint against them. The woman, aged 22, alleged her farmer father was in the field on Tuesday when six assailants, including the four alleged molesters, arrived in a car and fired indiscriminately, killing him on the spot. The woman alleged that she had called up the local police but received no help, just as she and her family had been mostly left at the mercy of the alleged molesters after her father lodged a compliant against them on July 16, 2018. The woman, who carried the body of her 52-year-old father on her shoulders along with three relatives to the burning ghat, told reporters in her village while crying inconsolably that the accused had publicly threatened to kill him. She alleged that the police had been mounting pressure on her parents to withdraw the case. “My father had registered a case against the four accused persons on July 16, 2018, complaining that they had been molesting me. Gaurav Sharma, the main accused, had been arrested at that time but was released on bail after 14 days. Since then, Gaurav, his family members and the three other accused, as also the police, had been mounting pressure on my father and mother to withdraw the case. They also continued to sexually harass me. Gaurav had said two days ago in the presence of many residents that he would kill my father,” the woman said. Pictures have been widely shared on social media showing Gaurav with Shivpal Yadav, the president of the Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia) and younger brother of former chief minister Mulayam Singh Yadav. Shivpal said: “Someone taking a picture with me at a public place doesn’t mean that I know him.” The woman told reporters that she and her mother had gone to give lunch to her father in a potato field when six men, including the four alleged molesters, came in a white car and shot him dead. “I called up an officer of Sasani Gate police station when they opened fire on my father but instead of arriving, he asked me to call 112 (the police control room),” she said. Vinit Jaiswal, the superintendent of police of Hathras, gave a different version of the crime. “The wife and aunt of main accused Gaurav Sharma had gone to a village temple where the woman (victim’s daughter) and mother arrived for a puja. They argued and soon the woman’s father and the accused persons came. The crime was committed there,” the officer said. “Besides Gaurav, the daughter of the deceased has mentioned the names of Lalit Sharma, Rohtas Sharma and Nikhil Sharma. Two more accused persons are unidentified. We have arrested Lalit and a hunt is on to nab the others,” Jaiswal said. In Hathras last year a Dalit teen had been gang-raped and murdered by four upper-caste men and the police had burnt her body in the dead of the night allegedly against the wishes of her family. While chief minister Yogi Adityanath was busy campaigning for the BJP in Malda on Tuesday, Uttar Pradesh’s information department officials told reporters that he had asked the police to book the accused under the National Security Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-299
03-03-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi dances with Tamil Nadu school kids||When Gladis Rubella, Class XII student, stepped onto the carpeted dais of St Joseph’s Higher Secondary School in the picturesque village of Mulagumoodu in Kanyakumari district, none had anticipated that it would turn into an impromptu dance floor “I have a request and a question,” an elegantly dressed Rubella told Congress leader Rahul Gandhi during an interaction as he rounded off a hectic election tour of Tamil Nadu’s deep south on Monday. “I hope you don’t want me to sing,” a smiling Rahul asked her. Rubella’s answer appeared to take the politician by surprise. “My friends and I have written a song” for Rahul, she said, venturing further: “Would you dance?” “Yes,” Rahul obliged. When Rubella’s three friends also came onto the stage to join in the dance, Rahul said: “One second.” He looked at the far end of the dais and called out for Tamil Nadu Congress president K.S. Azhagiri and AICC in-charge for the state and Puducherry Dinesh Gundu Rao. “I am not going to dance alone. If I am going to look bad, I would rather look bad with other people,” quipped Rahul. “We have been asked to dance,” he told the perplexed functionaries. Rahul held the hand of one of Rubella’s friends to his right and that of Dinesh as the others circled them. With simple, free-style leg shakes, followed by symmetric hand movements in the air, Rahul’s dance with students was an instant hit, as Rubella sang her song that went: “A simple man is he.” Applauding boys and girls swayed with the song, chanting “Rahul, Rahul”. The song eulogised Rahul’s respect for all cultures and people’s freedoms. Rubella drew a deep pause and ended: “He is a man of integrity.” “That was good singing,” Rahul complimented Rubella, adding that her singing was better than his dance. “She got a state award (for singing),” chipped in Fr. Dominic, the school correspondent. Fr. Dominic was ecstatic over the “wonderful dance performance”. Rubella’s question earlier to Rahul had expressed her worries about freedom of expression being “curbed” in India and whether another freedom movement was needed. “Yes, India is now going to need another freedom struggle, but it has to be non-violent and affectionate. There is a lot of anger spread across, a lot of fear in the country. We have to fight the fear, anger and division so that we have a happy, fearless, comfortable and united India,” the Congress leader replied. Dancing was not the only adventure Rahul undertook over the past week, besides deep-sea diving. He was up to another challenge thrown at him by Class IX student Merolin. During his hour-long interaction with the school children on the need for balance, calmness and hard work, Merolin asked Rahul: “Can you take push-ups?” Rahul sportingly joined her and outpaced her in the exercise. “Now, try one-hand,” Rahul told the girl and in a split second demonstrated it himself. “Rahul does it like Bruce Lee,” exclaimed Fr. Dominic. Rahul ensured that Merolin did not feel bad — he took her by his side, patted her and posed for a photograph, marking one of his innumerable pictures, selfies and handshakes. To a shy Sania, Rahul nodded for a photo she requested before taking her question on poverty eradication. Rahul recalled the Congress’s pre-poll promise of the Nyay plan that involved a direct cash aid of Rs 72,000 per year to every BPL family. “If we form a government we will implement this scheme and in five-six years, we can eradicate poverty,” Rahul assured, adding: “The Nyay scheme will dent the unfair distribution of money.” Rahul agreed with Sania’s plea that the poor be sensitised to the use of money as they often “waste it”. “Nothing particular,” Rahul had to convince another girl who wondered why he chose to join one particular group in Pudukkottai district recently for a show uploaded on a YouTube cooking channel on making mushroom biryani. Rahul had visibly relished the dish after he cooked with them. “It was an interesting group; I would be quite happy to visit other groups like this as I am interested to know the food, the language and the culture of the state,” he said. A poignant moment came at the end that moved Rahul to tears. Sunny, a Class VII student trained by artiste Ashok, had drawn pencil sketches of Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi, Rajiv Gandhi and Rahul on a Mangalore tile preserved since 1883. The plaque was presented to Rahul by Fr. Dominic as a memento. A choir sung at the programme and boys and girls displayed their skills with poles and ropes. “Rahul Gandhi wanted the interaction to be relaxed, informal; it was so illuminating and he energised the children so much,” Fr. Dominic told The Telegraph over the phone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-299
03-03-2021||India||Sikkim Cricket Association to organise tournament to groom young talents||The Sikkim Cricket Association (SiCA) will organise a cricket fair at the Tashi Namgyal Academy (TNA) in Gangtok on Saturday and Sunday as part of its mission to identify talents at a very early age and groom them as successful cricketers. Styled “Cricket Funfair/Mela”, such events will also be held at the district and subdivisional levels in the future. “The idea behind this initiative is to promote physical activity, the game of cricket and bring awareness amongst the youth of Sikkim (of cricket),” said a SiCA release issued on Tuesday. The fair is for both boys and girls above eight years of age and will have a host of activities, including talent hunt and fun and games. “In the last few years, we have made significant strides in our efforts to grow and develop the game and have stated our long-term commitment to develop cricket as an alternative sport (to football) in Sikkim,” the release added. The fair will also seek to spread the knowledge about cricket, which is at a nascent stage in Sikkim, with events like “Know your cricket” and “Cricket as a career”. Ever since SiCA was granted full membership of the cash-rich Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) in 2018, it has been on an overdrive to promote the game in the state. In November last year, SiCA organised its first state-level T20 tournament for both men and women. Sikkim has also been participating in all national-level tournaments, including the Ranji Trophy, since then. “The fair is part of our continuing work to promote cricket in Sikkim. Junior cricket is crucial to the successful future of cricket and we are confident that the Cricket Funfair would be an excellent platform to realise our dreams of promoting cricket as a career,” said SiCA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-299
03-03-2021||West Bengal||PM photo on Covid vaccine certificates violates poll code, TMC tells EC||A delegation of TMC leaders on Wednesday met Election Commission officials here and alleged that the use of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's photo on advertisements of various central schemes and the COVID vaccination certificates, distributed by the Union health ministry, violated the model code of conduct. The ruling party in Bengal termed it as a "blatant misuse of official machinery" and sought the intervention of the poll panel to remove hoardings advertising central government schemes with images of Modi at petrol pumps, state minister Firhad Hakim said after meeting the EC officials. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi happens to be the star campaigner of the BJP in this assembly elections. As a politician, he is seeking support for his party during rallies. In this situation, using his photo in vaccination certificates is akin to influencing voters and violates the model code of conduct. "We have sought the EC's intervention to remove his photo in hoardings promoting central schemes at petrol pumps," Hakim said. The minister called on the EC officials a day after TMC Rajya Sabha MP Derek O'Brien alleged that the PM photos have been used on the COVID-19 vaccination certificates even after the announcement of poll dates. "Elections declared. PM photo still brazenly appearing on #COVID19 documents. Trinamool @AITCofficial taking this up strongly with Election Commission @ECISVEEP," he said on Twitter on Tuesday. Reacting to these allegations, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh termed it as "baseless" and said the vaccination drive had started before the announcement of the election dates. "If a government project starts before the declaration of an election, it may continue in the same form. At petrol pumps, hoardings are advertising several welfare projects of the Centre. These are put up on private land," Ghosh said. He also said the EC would take a call on the issue. Elections in Bengal will be held in eight phases, beginning with polling for 30 seats on March 27. Votes will be counted on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
03-03-2021||West Bengal||Saradha to coal, ED questions Kunal Ghosh ||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday questioned Trinamul spokesperson Kunal Ghosh for five hours at its Salt Lake office in Calcutta in connection with its probe into the Saradha deposit mobilising scam. This development came on a day the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) drew up a list of district magistrates who would be possibly asked to appear for questioning in connection with its probe into the multi-crore pilferage of coal across many districts of Bengal and the Union home ministry handed over the probe into the Nimtita blast in Murshidabad to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). A team of ED officers questioned Ghosh for over five hours in trying to find out, they claimed, some of the missing links of the money trail in the Saradha scam. A former Rajya Sabha member, Ghosh headed a television channel and a newspaper funded by the Saradha group. Asked about the timing, ED officers said the investigating officer of the case was recently changed and the new incumbent has drawn up a list of unanswered queries which demanded Ghosh’s questioning. Ghosh has been asked to re-appear for questioning, sources in the agency said. Trinamul leaders said this was a characteristic trait of central agencies — dusting out old files ahead of the polls. “Kunal (Ghosh) was recently vocal about BJP offering shelter to some of those accused in the Narada sting case and therefore made a target,” said a senior Trinamul leader. In Delhi, the Union home ministry entrusted the NIA to probe into the February 17 Nimtita blast in Murshidabad bordering Bangladesh that left at least 26 people seriously injured, including Jakir Hossain, the minister of state for labour. However, Mamata Banerjee had immediately set up a special investigation team to probe the blast with three agencies, the CID, the Special Task Force and the Counter Insurgency Force (CIF). The CID arrested two persons. Hossain is still admitted to the SSKM hospital. The CBI has started drawing up a list of IAS officers who served Birbhum, Murshidabad and erstwhile Burdwan between 2017 and 2020 as district magistrates, before possibly inviting them for a round of questioning in the alleged multi-crore coal pilferage case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
03-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly polls: Congress leaves 7 seats for ISF||The Congress on Tuesday agreed to allot seven seats in south Bengal to Abbas Siddiqui’s Indian Secular Front, but reiterated that it would field candidates in not less than 92 Assembly segments. The consensus over the seven seats was reached at a meeting attended by the leaders of the CPM, Congress and the ISF at the CPM state headquarters in Alimuddin Street on Tuesday. “We have finalised a deal with the ISF on seven seats in south Bengal,” Congress leader and MP Pradip Bhattacharya told The Telegraph. “We have made progress in our discussions,” Bhattacharya said adding that the entire picture would be clear in a few days. Besides Bhattacharya, leader of the Opposition in the Bengal Assembly Abdul Mannan represented the Congress in the parleys with ISF chairman Naushad Siddiqui, CPM leaders Surjya Kanta Mishra and Md. Salim and Left Front chairman Biman Bose. Although Naushad didn’t wish to disclose the number of seats the ISF had agreed upon, he confirmed that “quite a few seats” had been allotted to his party by the Congress. “We are in talks with them for a few more in south Bengal,” Naushad added. Sources in the ISF, a fledgling political outfit founded by a Furfura Sharif cleric Abbas Siddiqui, said the deal so far had been sealed for seven to eight seats. However, Bhattacharya echoed the words of state Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and maintained that the party would contest 92 seats in the ensuing polls. Chowdhury had on Monday said the Congress would not give any seat to the ISF from its share of 92 seats. Congress sources said even if any of the seats the party had identified for itself was given to the ISF, it would be compensated from the seats that remained undistributed. The Congress had initially asked for 130 seats from the Left Front and finally, settled for 92, leaving 38 Assembly segments undistributed. The dispute over the ISF’s claims over Assembly segments in north Bengal remains. However, sources in the ISF said its leadership was willing to take a step back for the sake of the alliance. “We had demanded 13 seats in north Bengal from the Congress. Since they don’t want to give away all these seats, we are now asking for six seats only,” the ISF source said. “Congress representatives have told us that they will speak to the higher leadership and let us know on the issue,” the source added. As most of these seats are in the Congress strongholds of Malda, Murshidabad and North Dinajpur, it remains to be seen whether even the party would spare six seats for the ISF. Sources in the Left Front said chairman Bose would announce on March 8 the list of candidates for the first phase of polls. On March 6, a day ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting in Calcutta, the Left Front will hold rallies across the state in protest against the hike in prices of petroleum products and to demand jobs for all. In Calcutta, the procession will be taken out from Subodh Mullick Square to Mahajati Sadan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
03-03-2021||West Bengal||Politics of ‘ostracism’ sours wedding feast||Rising political temperatures of poll-bound Bengal soured the wedding feast of a Trinamul leader’s daughter in Birbhum’s Dubrajpur on Monday, with BJP leaders and workers allegedly forcing villagers to boycott the event. Niranjan Ghosh, a Trinamul booth president in Paduma village of Dubrajpur, had invited over 500 villagers for his daughter’s marriage on Monday. To manage the large number of invitees, he invited one lot to lunch and the other to dinner. By the end of the day, a shocked Ghosh realised that many villagers did not turn up and a lot of cooked food had to be thrown away. “I learnt that BJP leaders and workers owing allegiance to the saffron party’s state committee member Ramkrishna Roy threatened people to boycott them socially if they attended my daughter’s wedding. Over 200 invitees did not respond to my invitation after the threat because the BJP controls the panchayat. A lot of food was wasted,” said Ghosh. Paduma village is part of the Dubrajpur Assembly seat where the BJP led by over 14,000 votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. A resident of Paduma said “Sholo Ana”, an unofficial assembly of villagers, decides on social and cultural events in the village. Sources said though an independent body it is often controlled by the political party that dominates the region. The BJP, which replaced the Trinamul as the main force after the panchayat polls, took control of Sholo Ana as well. A villager, fearing to be named for fear of social reprisal, said he was Niranjan’s relative but could not attend the marriage. “They (BJP workers) threatened me and my family with social boycott if I attended the event. I did not take the risk (of defying them) as the BJP is the main force in the village,” said a villager. Ghanashyam Ghosh, a CPM’s Dubrajpur area committee member, was among those asked not to stay away. But Ghosh did not cower. “BJP workers did threaten me and ask not to attend the marriage ceremony of Niranjan’s daughter. I clearly told them we are against ostracism. Despite warnings, I responded to Niranjan’s invitation,” said Ghanashyam. “There are political differences with Niranjan but that does not interfere with our social ties. This ostracism is shameful. Villagers are so scared that they refuse to talk about it,” he added. Niranjan said social boycott was enforced immediately. Seven villagers who had come to his home for lunch on Monday were told not to come for dinner at another wedding in the village. “As they had lunch at my place, their dinner host cancelled their invitation. It hurt me,” Niranjan said. Refuting allegations of threats and ostracism, BJP leaders said the boycott was “spontaneous”. “Villagers were angry with Niranjan as he earlier filed fake cases against a few BJP workers. Most villagers decided to boycott the event. We did not threaten anyone,” said Ramkrishna Roy of the BJP. Social scientists criticised the alleged ostracism. “Dr BR Ambedkar felt villages were cesspools of cruelty and caste prejudice. (But) in Bengal, the culture (of ostracism) is strongly condemned. It is unfortunate when such a call comes from a political party that rules a country or state,” said sociologist Surajit Mukhopadhyay. Anubrata Mondal, Trinamul’s Birbhum president, said: “This is not the culture of Bengal. The BJP is using its politics of hate even though they are not in power.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
03-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP leader’s acquittal and re-arrest within 2 hours||BJP leader Anisur Rahman, acquitted of charges of murdering a Trinamul leader in 2019 by the local court here, was arrested two hours after his release on Tuesday following a Calcutta High Court order that overturned the bail granted to him last month and the process of acquittal underway since then. A petition challenging Rahman’s bail order by the lower court was moved by a East Midnapore resident in high court last week, alleging the state government did not follow proper legal procedure. The prayer came up for hearing before Justice Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya of the high court on Tuesday, who observed the state administration failed to cite proper reasons while withdrawing its case against Rahman and directed the police to re-arrest Rahman. The case acquired political colours for more reasons than one. Rahman faced charges of murdering Trinamul leader Qurban Shah on October 7, 2019. Rahman himself was was a popular Trinamul youth leader who in 2018 joined the BJP after differences with then Trinamul heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari. When Shah was killed, Rahman was arrested in November 2019. After Suvendu defected to the BJP in December 2020, chief minister Mamata Banerjee publicly said in East Midnapore that Rahman was wrongfully implicated. Additional reporting by Anshuman Phadikar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
03-03-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul homes in on 4 houses in Nandigram for Mamata||Trinamul Congress leadership in East Midnapore has begun a search for a temporary address for Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram from where she is likely to contest in the Assembly polls. The chief minister herself announced her desire to contest from Nandigram, the site of her anti-land acquisition protest, during a January 18 mega rally in Tekhali as she threw the gauntlet down at former aide Suvendu Adhikari who defected to the BJP in December. Sources said her candidature in Nandigram was likely to be confirmed by the state Trinamul leadership later this week before the beginning of the nomination filing window of March 5-12. As Mamata always contested from seats in Calcutta, she never needed a temporary address in the poll season. For Nandigram, around 140km from Calcutta, she would, however, need a place to put up and reach out to voters. “Didi will be going across the state for Trinamul candidates, but she will be coming to Nandigram several times for her own campaign.… We have to have a place ready for her so that she can stay here during her visits,” said Abu Taher, deputy chief of Nandigram panchayat samiti. Multiple Trinamul sources said the hunt for a temporary accommodation for Mamata, who didn’t leave the family’s modest home on 30B Harish Chatterjee Street in Calcutta even after becoming the chief minister, is a challenge as she prefers a spartan lifestyle and is averse to display of luxury in her personal space. Besides, security protocols for the chief minister, who will have an entourage during her stay in Nandigram, added to the degree of difficulty in zeroing in on a place for Mamata. Taher said the party had short-listed four buildings in and around Nandigram town and started paying temporary leases for two of them. “We have short-listed four buildings of different types — at Nandigram town, Reyapara, Battola and Dinabandhupur. These four buildings will be used for the chief minister and her entourage during her stay in Nandigram,” he said while adding that they were creating provision for the stay of 50 to 100 people. Although there was no confirmation on which of the four would be used as Mamata’s temporary address, sources in the East Midnapore district party unit as well as residents of the area said on Tuesday that the residence at the town seemed to have caught the leaders’ eyes. “State Trinamul president Subrata Bakshi and MP Dola Sen have been coming here frequently since mid-January and this house is the one they have frequented most,” said a resident of Nandigram town, pointing to a pink two-storey building with four separate flats ranging between 600sqft and 1,000sqft. Contacted by this newspaper, homeowner Sheikh Rajab, a school teacher, said: “The party has leased two flats from me for two months. The smaller one upstairs may be used by Mamata Banerjee whereas her detail will use a flat downstairs.” “I told Trinamul leaders that they could pay whatever rent they want to. I even had my wife clear out her office downstairs for the time being,” he added, explaining that the average monthly rent of one flats was Rs, 4,000. Senior Trinamul leader and zilla parishad deputy chief Sheikh Sufian confirmed the party’s interest in the building, saying its location and layout were “perfect” for the chief minister. “Our leaders Subrata Bakshi and Dola Sen inspected several properties in the area over a month and were finally satisfied with two in particular,” he added. The other property is a community hall at Battola with accommodation on the second-storey. This property has also reportedly been rented out for two months. Sources said both the properties would fall within a 3km radius of the proposed helipad for the chief minister at the Nandigram College Grounds. “The final confirmation, however, will lie with the chief minister’s security detail who will visit the buildings after the announcement of her candidature. The decision will be made solely on safety grounds,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
03-03-2021||West Bengal||Yogi Adityanath plays majoritarian card to polarise Bengal elections||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday played the majoritarian card to polarise the Bengal elections, alleging that the Mamata Banerjee government wasn’t allowing people to chant “Jai Shri Ram” and imposing restrictions on Durga Puja celebrations. Ajay Mohan Bisht, also known as Yogi Adityanath, attacked the Trinamul Congress government over law and order in Bengal, but didn’t refer to the killing of a sexual assault survivor’s father allegedly by the prime accused in his state on Monday. “The law and order in Bengal is in a shambles. Cattle rustling and cross-border smuggling have become commonplace and police and the administration do not take steps against criminals…. Even women aren’t spared. Any government that can’t ensure the safety of women and residents of the state as a whole should not be in power even for a day,” the Hindutva poster boy told a gathering of 30,000-odd people at the College Ground in Gazole of Malda “If the BJP is voted to power, we will stop cattle slaughtering and will close down all illegal abattoirs within 24 hours. Cattle smuggling would also be stopped,” he added. His criticism of the Mamata government prompted questions from her party. “Even as he was making these statements, that astounding crime took place at Hathras in UP,” said Bengal minister Tapas Roy, referring to the Monday incident, in which a person residing at a village under the Sasni police station of Hathras had been gunned down by a local youth, who is accused of molesting his daughter in 2018. The victim had filed the police complaint against Gaurav Sharma, the accused, who was arrested and was later released on bail. “There is an element of tragic hilarity to this, when someone like Adityanath makes such statements in Bengal,” said Roy. The Hindutva hardliner, deemed a favourite of the Sangh parivar right after Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, predictably peppered his speech with communal, inflammatory elements that the saffron ecosystem thrives on. “The Trinamul government here gets agitated if someone chants ‘Jai Sri Ram’. They can’t stop people from chanting it. Also, obstructions are created here for festivals like Durga Puja, unlike in UP, where all the festivals are celebrated with equal vigour and enthusiasm,” said Adityanath, who also brought up contentious concepts of the saffron camp, such as “Love Jihad” and the controversial legislation in his state against it. Malda, a district with around 55 per cent of the people from a minority community, has 12 Assembly seats, with minority votes being decisive in six to seven. Senior minister and Trinamul veteran Subrata Mukherjee said: “First of all, as recently as 2020, the Uttar Pradesh government had imposed restrictions on Durga Puja, while in Bengal, there were so many — as usual — that Calcutta, for instance, came to a standstill for days. Who here takes a man like that seriously anyway?” “People here haven’t ever seen a so-called monk who is also a chief minister. Some go to check him out, because of that. If he pays a visit somewhere close to me, I too might go, simply because of that. Does that mean I will be influenced by what he has to say?” asked Mukherjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
03-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly elections: Fix census, say Nepali speakers ||The alleged inaccurate numbers of Nepali speakers on the census is an issue this poll season in Darjeeling hills, with organisations appealing to political parties to speak on the census enumeration process during campaigns. Census figures reveal that while decadal growth of people having listed their mother tongue as Nepali grew by 38.29 per cent between 1991 and 2001, the growth was only 1.89 per cent from 2001 to 2011. This decade’s census is due this year. While Nepali speakers were 20,76,645 in the 1991 Census the figure rose to 28,71,749 in 2001. However in the next 10 years, numbers went up by just over a lakh, said Anjani Sharma Bhujel, spokesman, Gorkhaland Sanyukta Sangharsh Samiti (GSSS), an organisation which works on socio-political issues in the region. “The 2011 Census figures recorded 29,26,168 people having Nepali as their mother tongue,” she said. Only Konkani with a decadal growth of minus 9.34 and Urdu with minus 1.48 fared worse than Nepali among 22 languages under the Eight Schedule of the Constitution. However, Anjani added that her organisation feels that the true numbers of Nepali-speaking population are not getting reflected in the census owing to various reasons. The Nepali community has a number of sub-communities like Tamang, Gurung, Limbu, Rai, Newar etc, and each has their own dialect and some even their own script, though Nepali is accepted as a lingua franca of this community. Many believe that members of sub-communities tend to list their dialect as mother tongue instead of the lingua franca. “We are trying to explain to the people the definition of mother tongue vis-à-vis census and to record it accordingly,” said Anjani. A glance through the list of non-scheduled languages in Census suggests people have recorded Tamang, Subba or Rai as their mother tongue. Many also believe that the race to get their sub-community recognised as a Scheduled Tribe might also have propelled people to highlight their dialect/language over lingua franca Nepali. Eleven Gorkha sub-communities are currently demanding tribal status, and apart from Khas, all other communities have their own dialect and some even their script. “Geographic difficulties given the hill terrain might also be a factor in some places. Enumerators may not be able to meet each and every family,” said a social activist from Darjeeling. GSSS along with other similar groups like Federation of Indian Gorkhas are taking the lead in explaining the enumeration process and also appealing to political parties to explain the nitty-gritty during their election campaign. Binay Tamang, president of his faction of the Gorkha Janmukti flagged off the issue during his address in Assam recently. The Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxists (CPRM) have also been participating in awareness programmes organised by GSSS.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-179
03-03-2021||West Bengal||Rajbanshi Muslim plea to Mamata: field 5 candidates from community||The largest association of Nasya Sheikhs or Rajbanshi Muslims in north Bengal have sent a letter to Trinamul supremo Mamata Banerjee, requesting her to field at least five candidates from the community in various seats of north Bengal in the upcoming Assembly elections. Representatives of the Uttarbanga Nasya Sheikh Unnayan Parishad — some 35 lakh Rajbanshi Muslims live in the region — have said that such a move is necessary to thwart forces such as the Indian Secular Front (ISF) and All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) from eroding Trinamul’s minority vote bank. The five Assembly seats that they have stated in their letter are Itahar (North Dinajpur), Harirampur (South Dinajpur), Chanchal (Malda), Tufanganj and Cooch Behar South (both Cooch Behar), said sources. Bazlay Rehman, the president of the Parishad, said that Mamata had agreed to their demand of forming a development board for the community. “We are with her and will extend all possible support to Trinamul. But considering the recent political developments in the state such as new political forces deciding to contest the elections, we feel it is necessary that at least five people from our community contest in the elections from various seats. This will help Trinamul,” Rehman said. The ISF, headed by influential Furfura Sharif cleric-turned-politician Abbas Siddiqui, has forged an alliance with the Left that has decided to allow ISF to contest in 30 seats. The Congress has offered eight seats to the ISF but negotiations are still in progress. On Sunday’s Brigade rally in Calcutta, Siddiqui’s mass appeal was noticed by all present there. “Furthermore, the AIMIM headed by Asaduddin Owaisi has also announced that it will field candidates in minority-dominated areas of Bengal. These parties might try to draw support from people of our community if none from us is fielded in the elections. That is why we have sent the letter to Mamata Banerjee,” said another representative of the organisation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-179
03-03-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul MLA Jitendra Tiwari joins BJP||Trinamul Congress MLA and former Asansol mayor Jitendra Tiwari joined the BJP at a rally attended by the saffron party’s Bengal president Dilip Ghosh at Baidyabati in Hooghly district on Tuesday. “I am glad that the BJP has given me some space in their family and I will now work under the leadership of Narendra Modi. I have no allegation to raise against anyone but I must say that from now, I will be able to say whatever in my mind freely,” Tiwari, the Pandaveswar MLA, said after receiving the BJP flag from Ghosh. At the end, Tiwari who had recently been appointed the spokesperson for Trinamul’s Hindi cell by Mamata Banerjee, chanted “Jai Sree Ram”. “Since my childhood, I have been chanting ‘Jai Sree Ram’ but now, I will be able to chant it openly from the dais,” he said. There had been speculation about Tiwari’s defection to the BJP since December last year after he had fired off a “confidential” letter to urban development minister Firhad Hakim expressing his “grief” over not getting central funds under the Smart City project because of “political reasons”. In his letter dated December 13, Tiwari, who was then the chairman of the board of administrators at the Asansol Municipal Corporation, had apparently accused the Mamata Banerjee government of not allowing him to receive the funds because of “political reasons” and thus hampering the town’s development. Two days after sending the letter, Tiwari quit the post of chairman and president of Trinamul in West Burdwan. On the same day, he attended a meeting with former minister Suvendu Adhikari at ex-Trinamul MP Sunil Mandal’s house in East Burdwan’s Galsi. Both Adhikari and Mandal later defected to the BJP but Tiwari’s induction was stalled as a section of BJP leaders, including junior Union minister Babul Supriyo, raised objections. Later, Tiwari met chief minister Mamata Banerjee and told the media that he had made a mistake and apologised to Didi. Although Tiwari was appointed as the spokesperson for Trinamul’s Hindi cell, he lost his acceptance among party rank and file. “His rivals in Trinamul were not allowing him to work. He got involved in a scuffle with a Trinamul leader at a meeting at Andal recently and he had no other alternative than to join the BJP,” said the source. The sources said the relation between Babul and Tiwari had been very “unpleasant” since the 2014 general election. Tiwari had accused the singer-turned politician contesting for the first time from Asansol as a BJP candidate of carrying illegal firearms and campaigning in drunken condition. However, Babul on Tuesday said many people were leaving Trinamul and the CPM and there was now nothing in it. “Tiwari’s induction had been under consideration for the past one month. Many people are now coming to the BJP from Trinamul and the CPM. It is a fact that there were bitter relations between us but there is no need to recall such memories now. We will put the past behind and work together for the development of Asansol,” said Babul. Trinamul secretary general Partha Chatterjee said Tiwari’s desertion would have no impact on the party. “We have no loss. People have faith in Mamata Banerjee. Those leaving Trinamul will regret after the elections,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-179
03-03-2021||North East||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra announces five guarantees to Assam voters||The Opposition Congress on Tuesday scaled up its campaign to wrest back Assam from the ruling BJP with senior party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra announcing “five guarantees” to the people of the poll-bound state, including a law to nullify the contentious Citizenship (Amendment) Act, if voted to power. Besides the law that curbs the operation of the CAA, the other four guarantees included generation of five lakh government jobs; raising tea workers’ daily wage to Rs 365; free electricity up to 200 units per household; and Rs 2,000 monthly income support to all housewives. Launching what the party said was its “five-guarantee” campaign to reach out to the voters of all sections, especially the youth, housewives and tea garden workers, Priyanka revealed the guarantees at a well-attended rally at Tezpur in central Assam. The highlight of the rally was the presence of Bodoland People’s Front chief Hagrama Mohilary, who joined the Congress-led alliance on Sunday. He not only went after the BJP-led alliance but asserted to win at least 12 BJP seats on his own outside the Bodoland Territorial Region, which has 12 seats. Not mere promises The Congress has been for sometime made the unfulfilled promises of the BJP since 2014 a key poll plank. The guarantees by Priyanka have to be seen in this context, something that she herself has been harping since her arrival on Monday on a two-day trip that has been high on messaging to reach out to all sections of voters. PCC media department chairperson Bobbeeta Sharma told The Telegraph that these guarantees are “not” mere promises, stressing on the word “promises” to drive home the point that unlike the ruling BJP they are making firm commitments to the people of Assam. Asserting that guarantees are different from promises, Priyanka, dressed in a maroon mekhala chador, said these were commitments based on people’s feedback to senior Congress leaders during their Axom Basaon Ahok (Come, Lets save Assam) campaign launched on February 12. “I know you have been made such promises before but this is our guarantee. A core team that studied the economy of the state, based on statistics, has worked out the guarantees. They have made a complete scheme under which these guarantees are being offered. When we say you will get Rs 365 a day, this does not mean that tea companies will suffer losses. This means whatever the companies pay you, the government will support to take the amount to Rs 365,” the AICC general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh said, an assurance which should be music to the tea industry which fears the recent hike of Rs 50 a day may have a crippling effect on the sector. If the Congress leader was circumspect in her criticism of the BJP-led regime in her meetings on Monday, she went all out against the ruling dispensation. She reminded the gathering how BJP leaders had promised to protect the jati mati bheti (identity, land and hearth) of Assam, not to impose CAA, implement Clause 6 for constitutional and administrative safeguards of the indigenous people but they have done the exact opposite in the past five years. She said the Prime Minister has never visited Assam during the flood and lockdown when it was in trouble but made several trips before polls were declared. “What can you expect when the PM did not talk to protesting farmers in Delhi 4-5 km from his residence! Why will he then come to Assam and talk to you? “Few days ago he said Assam tea is under attack following on a tweet by a 21-year-old but for past five years the BJP-RSS leaders have repeatedly attacked Assam’s identity but the Prime Minister has remained silent! They have gone around the country talking about CAA but they don’t have the courage to talk about it in Assam,” she said, adding that only a few industrialists have benefited under the present ruling dispensation. Priyanka, who released the party’s campaign song after her 20-minute speech, that she has been going around and meeting people since Monday to understand the prevailing situation. “I urge everyone here to know your rights. Elections come and go but the fight for your rights and identity should always continue. Your biggest right is your vote. Think and vote. This election, you are fighting for Assam, your future. This is not a fight of the Congress and the BJP. This election is about Assam so that you can secure your and your children’s future. Don’t forget this. When polls are held, vote for Mahajot, which will work for your welfare and future,” she said. High on messaging The announcement brought to the end her packed two-day trip that was high on messaging. Before reaching Tezpur, she visited Sadhuru Tea Estate in Biswanath for an hour where she interacted with women workers, plucked tea leaves, had tea and bread and heard their dukh ki baat. The visit was aimed at reaching out to the tea community, which is influential in about 42 of the 126 Assembly seats. She said she felt happy being with them but it also made her sad over their daily struggle, coping with spiralling prices to make ends meet with their low daily wage of Rs 167. She urged them to think and vote in the upcoming elections. Priyanka reached Guwahati on Monday morning and after offering prayers at Kamakhya temple to seek the blessings of Ma Kamakhya, she flew straight to Lakhimpur. Her packed schedule also saw her visit the birthplace of Madhabdeb, the chief disciple of Srimanta Sankardeva, at Letekupukhuri in Lakhimpur district, and pay tributes to Kanaklata, a teenage Quit India Movement martyr from Gohpur. In between, she also danced jhumur with young girls welcoming her at the Lakhimpur meeting and met party leaders. Priyanka’s visit is the second high-profile visit after Rahul Gandhi’s visit to Sivasagar on February 14.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-20
03-03-2021||Opinion||Fragile thaw: India-Pakistan ceasefire||Hell fire can begin to rain on restive borders unexpectedly. But ceasefires — always welcomed by citizens manning or living along heated borders — can be as sudden. The recent joint announcement by the director generals of military operations of India and Pakistan that took political commentators by surprise is a case in point. Yet, as always, nothing happens without a reason in the world of bilateral engagement. There is speculation that in spite of New Delhi’s stubborn refusal to engage with Islamabad politically, India’s hand has been forced by the prolonged border tensions with China, a far more formidable adversary, so as to avert, if only for the time being, the worrying possible of hostility on two fronts. Pakistan, too, is a cornered nation today. A thaw in its relationship with India, Pakistan will be hoping, would enable it to find its way out of the dreaded ‘grey list’ of the Financial Action Task Force. There is also the long arm of the United States of America; under a new president, the US could well be pushing for an easing of the fractious ties between India and Pakistan so that it can devote its energies, with its allies in Asia, towards countering China. Yet, for the ceasefire to yield tangible political results, both countries would need to tame significant opponents to peace. It appears that Pakistan’s army chief, Qamar Javed Bajwa, is invested in this initiative. But the army and the political establishment in Pakistan seldom act in unison: they would have to do so to avoid abusing India’s trust as Pakistan has done on numerous occasions with covert or overt aggression. The Indian prime minister — he is said to have a weakness for unconventional approaches — would also find himself constrained by his regime’s robust refusal to fall back on diplomacy to break the ice in all these years. Perhaps it will do both nations well to abjure optics and concentrate on a beginning by falling back on the framework provided by history — in 2004, Pervez Musharraf and Atal Bihari Vajpayee had agreed that negotiations on peace must be supported by a scaffold of three principal pledges: Pakistan’s assurance not to support cross-border terrorism; India’s willingness to adopt a supple stance on Kashmir; the renewal of a series of confidence-building measures. How New Delhi and Islamabad choose to tread on these ‘core issues’ could determine the way ahead on this occasion too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
03-03-2021||Opinion||Generation doom: children of the pandemic||Covid-19 has not only taken a massive toll on people’s health; it has also destroyed the future prospects of children. A study by the Centre for Science and Environment indicated as much with its findings about the ‘pandemic generation’: 375 million children, from newborns up to the age of 14, are likely to suffer the long-term effects of the global contagion, ranging from malnutrition, stunting and increased child mortality to losses in education. While global attention has been monopolized by the deaths caused by the coronavirus — it has claimed more than 2.5 million lives around the world, with the casualties in India going beyond 1.5 lakh — the myriad plight of minors and children has been rendered invisible. The blow to the educational prospects of such ‘hidden victims’ is particularly severe: more than 500 million were forced out of school all over the world, with India accounting for over half the number. These figures bear serious implications for India, which now lags behind all South Asian nations in terms of sustainable development, save for Pakistan. Even at the best of times, the protection of children’s lives, rights and health has to be negotiated around formidable roadblocks, including State apathy. The picture becomes even bleaker for children — especially those on the margins — born or growing up during the pandemic. They are at greater risk of disease, poverty, food shortage and even sexual violence while facing poorer access to basic rights such as education and healthcare. While the global response has not been particularly encouraging — a United Nations survey of high-income economies showed that a third of them did not implement any policies designed to support children during the first wave of the pandemic — certain countries have taken some mitigatory measures. Singapore, for one, asked pre-school programmes and student care centres to cut fees by 50 per cent for a short time. But, India, seemingly, has looked the other way. The National Education Policy and the Union budget both saw the light of day during the pandemic. Yet, governmental expenditure on children came down by almost Rs 16,000 crore, while the NEP made lofty claims about online education and increasing the student enrolment ratio by 50 per cent with little clarity on how the digital divide is to be tackled. These challenges are only aggravated by health concerns — increasing air and water pollution are examples — thereby signalling the urgent need for holistic comprehension of the overlapping nature of the challenges so as to design appropriate interventions. The plight of 42 per cent of India’s population is too complex to be solved by a piecemeal approach.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-64
03-03-2021||Opinion||Breathe life into postal life insurance||It was the early 1880s. The British administration in India realized that the subcontinent could not be administered without an effective communication infrastructure. The spread of the postal service thus became a matter of the highest priority. A poor babu of the Calcutta GPO died in harness at the time, leaving his family in a financial crisis. The postal authority felt the need to have a welfare scheme for its employees to cover the risk of life while in service. The proposal of the Director-General of Post Offices, F.R. Hogg, got express approval of Her Majesty’s Secretary of State for India. With that, the concept of life insurance first came to India in 1884 by an executive order in the form of Postal Life Insurance. Every year, the first day of February is observed by the oldest insurer as the day of inception of life insurance in India. The scheme that started as a welfare measure for postal employees was soon extended to other government employees and, subsequently, to the employees of defence services and paramilitary forces, autonomous bodies, public sector units, government-aided educational institutions, banks, local bodies, joint ventures (having a minimum of 10 per cent government/PSU stake), credit cooperative societies, employees of listed companies and professionals. In pursuance of the recommendations of the Malhotra Committee (1994), set up by the P.V. Narasimha Rao government on reform in the insurance sector, a separate insurance scheme was introduced by the Department of Posts in March 1995 exclusively for the people living in rural areas with the objective of financial inclusion of people hitherto untouched by the modern insurance sector. The two schemes together had 96.79 lakh active policies, covering a sum assured of more than Rs 2.05 lakh crore till November 2020. The total corpus of the two funds reached Rs 1.13 lakh crore on November 2020. Interestingly, the government has not tried to propagate these schemes aggressively. But the PLI and its rural counterpart, the RPLI, have retained their welfare model of marketing even in the changed economic situation. Policies are primarily procured through the designated employees of India Post who are paid a modest incentive when compared to the industry standard of commission. Consequently, the cost of operation of these schemes is lower than that of corresponding schemes of established life insurance companies. The PLI, thus, can afford to distribute a higher ‘surplus’ to policy-holders in the form of an annual ‘bonus’. In spite of substantial higher returns, the market share of PLI among the eligible population is miniscule. The PLI comes under the category of an exempted insurer under Section 118 (c) of the Insurance Act (1938) and under Section 44 (d) of LIC Act (1956). But PLI isn’t an ‘insurer’ that can register itself with the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India. Subsection 9 under Section 2 of the Insurance Act defines ‘insurer’ as any individual or unincorporated body of individuals or a body incorporated under any law in force in India or incorporated under the law of any country other than India. Being a scheme run by the Central government and set up by an executive order, the PLI does not come under the ambit of this definition of ‘insurer’ and is not under the purview of the IRDA. The world of insurance in India changed drastically after the sector was opened up and the IRDA came into existence. New players and foreign insurers entered the market, which was flooded with new types of policies. Traditional ‘term policies’, ‘endowment policies’, and various combinations of the two gave way to ‘single premium policies’. Full foreign shareholding in insurance intermediaries has also been allowed. Such dramatic changes in the market further marginalized the PLI in the last two decades in the mainstream insurance market. No insurer can have new products today without the endorsement of the regulator. The PLI neither comes under the regulator nor the parent body — India Post has the mandate to bring new insurance products in the market. The PLI, which extended insurance cover to female employees as early as 1894, is struggling today with a handful of products. When a behemoth like the Life Insurance Corporation is so entrenched in the market, do we need another public sector player?  The answer to this question lies in the alternative business model of PLI that is based on keeping the cost of operation low by taking advantage of the massive infrastructure of post offices. It can offer higher returns to policy-holders and reach every nook and corner of India. The foremost step to reform the PLI lies in bringing it under the IRDA’s fold. This can be done by undertaking a minor amendment in the IRDA Act or by converting the PLI to a corporate body fully owned by India Post. The first option is easier, but the second one is wiser. A similar reform has already been carried out by the present regime with a scheduled bank — the India Post Payments Bank — that was launched by the prime minister in 2018. However, unlike a payments bank, the entry of a new player with huge potential in the insurance market may not be welcomed by existing groups. What is needed, therefore, is political will. The PLI’s distinctive business model and its reach may facilitate such a will. Japan Post Life Insurance, which was corporatized in 2007 as the Japan Post Insurance Company Ltd., is the fourth-largest insurance company of the world in terms of net premiums written and is also the largest insurer of the world when measured in terms of assets.  This reveals the potential strength of the post office network. How long can India shy away from postal sector reforms to release its true potential?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-64
03-03-2021||Opinion||Berchtesgaden bloom||Poor ideas often become alarmingly popular, good ones get cast by the wayside. What side of the table would have been the side to choose at Berchtesgaden in Bavaria in the September of 1938? On one side of it sat Adolf Hitler and Benito Mussolini, on the other sundry eminences of an alliance already hounded to supplication, most prominently Neville Chamberlain of Great Britain. The Austrian Anschluss was done and dusted, chunks of what used to be Czechoslovakia were about to be served to Hitler as appeasement pie. The hope on one side of the table was that the Munich Agreement would make dessert and sate his appetite for Lebensraum; Hitler was only treating it as hors d’oeuvre. But let’s leave what was served on the Bavarian table, let’s return to the two sides of it. Which side would have been the right one to pick? But is that even a question to ask? The right side, of course, didn’t win that day, the wrong one was handed rampaging rights. That table left us a lesson to be learnt, a lesson we often forget, and often suffer for the forgetting. The good idea is often poorly led; the bad one is brilliantly brandished. We may have been on that table a while now — diabolical talent strutting on one side, virtue slumbering on the other over what it takes to get kindled. Narendra Modi’s accession to power in 2014 uncorked the wounding of India with bolts of shock that may already have succeeded in obliterating what we used to be with blotches of the new normal. The most recent act of such re-branding is the official deification of Madhavrao Sadashivrao Golwalkar, patron saint of the powers and pupil to the abhorrent philosophies of Hitler and his abominable adherents. Golwalkar, it has now been proclaimed, shall inspire generations of Indians. Read Bunch of Thoughts and you will probably get a glimpse of what comprises inspiration — it doesn’t stop at plagiarism of putrescence, it is an exhort to punishable prejudices of the sort that we are getting used to committing or, more woefully, turning indifferent to. But in arriving at the unseemly altar of Golwalkar, we have traversed a journey; if, somewhere along the way, we’d have stopped and asked questions, wondered why, we probably wouldn’t be here. But there is still time, and opportunity, to see where we have landed ourselves. It no longer affects us that Nathuram Godse, assassin of Gandhi, has become a celebrated deity, does it? Lynching, trashing, just shaming folks for who they pray to and what they wear have become a thing to do, hasn’t it? Valley Kashmiris are all deserving of the lavish punishments wreaked on them, aren’t they? Dalits can be tied up, lashed and videographed; they are getting too big for shoes they never had. Our book of synonyms has become so much richer for how human beings can also now be referred to — termites, reptiles, snakes, insects, creepy-crawlies, keede-makode... sanctified terms. Some of those categories are deserving of being exterminated... sanctioned treatment, pronounced from lofty platforms. We don’t seem to care too much that a hostile neighbour has pawed away our territory and sits there dictating terms to our stuttering champions of nationalism. Cast a glance at our fallen status on global indices — of the state of our freedoms, of human rights, of corruption, of governmental excess. But we don’t need lectures from the world on who we are and how we shall be. We shall put people behind bars for not cracking the joke that was allegedly cracked. We shall arraign young ladies for standing up for those that make us a krishi-pradhan desh — our farmers. And those sons of this soil we are not embarrassed to call all manner of names they shouldn’t be called. Nothing stirs us. More than a hundred of those farmers perished on the vigil, but who cares? No, but we do care. For a mobile tower that fell victim to a dastardly agitation. We do care to question the right of labourers to be entitled to a wage because the sarkar is already feeding them for free. We do care to unleash the agencies of State on its people — sleuths armed with files and fabrication, jawans armed with everything — from water cannons to batons to fire-arms — plain-clothed agents licensed with monopoly on violence. We do care to char the evidence of crime under police protection. We do care to extract reparation from a citizenry harassed to the barricades. We do care to announce with fanfare that justice is no longer a thing to be equitably demanded or disbursed. Habeas corpus? But whatever is that? We upturned the fundamental principles of justice; jail gets precedence over bail, you are guilty before you have proved yourself innocent. Our prime minister plays mahant of the republic whose rules he defies and defines as he goes along and as he pleases, a man who, after the fashion of the most flagrant tinpots, wears monogrammed suits and gets spanking playing arenas named after him frilled out with tributes to pet cronies. We have arrived at disquieting violations of who we are, culturally and constitutionally, but remember, these violations are presided upon with unmatched energy and gusto. Some of what has become normal is debased and wicked, ideas and practices that take the sword and fire to the Constitution that the chief violator still implants dubious kisses on. He possesses imperial command, though he hectors and he is heeded, he soars above the field. It isn’t the first time foul notions are flying high. But we mustn’t omit to mention the laying low of the fair notions, the lackadaisical betrayal of them. Rahul Gandhi, espouser of right and reasonable things — plurality, inclusiveness, the ethics of equitability — he mingles, he listens, he sails close to the ideas that have kept the complex diversity of this nation sewn together, stood us under the same flag singing the same anthem. But Rahul Gandhi is also notoriously truant and whimsical, he’s there one day, gone the other. The good idea he has turned into a plaything of his caprice. Does he care that his ally in Bengal, the Communist Party of India (Marxist), has just certified the unvarnished majoritarianism of the sangh? Did he even know, or care, that his party was sharing the stage of Pirzada Abbas Siddiqui’s anointment, as effective a fillip to the politics of ‘Jai Shri Ram’ as could be ordered? Rahul Gandhi refuses to take charge, he is reluctant to put another in charge — na banoonga, na banne doonga (I shan’t become and I won’t let another become). He declines to inhabit and animate the good idea, it has turned ramshackle on his watch, a frittered, unthinking thing. He once walked across the Lok Sabha floor chanting love and hugged Narendra Modi, believing that would make a better man of him. He mimicked Chamberlain’s handshake with Hitler at Berchtesgaden. We know what came of it. sankarshan.thakur@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-64
03-03-2021||Jharkhand||LIC employees protest against delay in wage revision, demand immediate implementation||Employees of the Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) of India on Wednesday held a protest demonstration outside their office in Dhanbad in support of their pending demand of pay revision since 2017. Pay revision of LIC of India and GIC of India is pending since August 1, 2017 The demonstrations were carried out during the lunch hour at all six branches of LIC including branch I in Bartand, branch II in Dhansar, branch III in Jharia, branch IV in Purana Bazar, SS Cell branch in Hirapur and Govindpur branch. The demonstration was carried out under the banner of a joint front of different worker unions from 1.30 pm onwards. The protesting employees also raised slogans against the central government and accused it of implementing anti-worker policy. The agitators claimed that the pay revision is their basic right. They mentioned that by delaying its implementation the government was attacking the rights of the workers. Talking to the media, Hemant Mishra, district convenor of the joint front of LIC unions said, “The growth rate of LIC is much more than the GDP growth rate of the country. The employees have an important role to play in this regard but they are being denied their revised pay.” Furnishing some more statistics in this regard, Mishra stated that during 2019-20, LIC registered a 12 per cent growth rate over last year by securing over Rs 37,9062.57 crore of premium income. “The delay in pay revision of such an organisation is regrettable, and the government should immediately carry out a good pay revision of LIC of India employees,” added Mishra. The protesting employees further announced that to protest against the government decision to bring LIC of India IPO and increase the FDI in the insurance sector from 49 per cent to 74 per cent, they will carry out gate demonstration again on March 8 and March 15. The participants in the dharna said that the employees of LIC will carry out a nationwide strike on March 15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-123
03-03-2021||Jharkhand||Deputy commissioner hands over Rs 23 lakh cheque to kin of deceased ||Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Wednesday handed over a cheque of Rs 23.63 lakh to the family of Mohamed Wajihuddin who died due to health problems on June 5, 2019, in Muscat, Oman. Wajihuddin (65), a B.Tech graduate of BIT-Sindri, was the general manager as well as a partner of Sahar United Trading and Contracting Company at Muscat. Though his body was brought to India after his death, Wajihuddin's earnings deposited in different banks were later received by the Embassy of India at Muscat and then passed on to the district administration of Dhanbad to be handed over to his widow. The deputy commissioner received the money from the Embassy of India at Muscat. The money was in two banks in Muscat, namely, the Bank of Muscat and the National Bank of Oman. The cheque was given to Farhat Anjum, Wajihuddin's widow who is a resident of Qamar Makhdoomi Road of Wasseypur, Dhanbad. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, Wajihuddin's son, Aieman Quadar, who accompanied his mother, Farhat, to the district collectorate where the cheque was handed over to her, said, “My father was living in Oman for the last 35 years along with my mother and he was a partner of the company, Sahar United Trading and Contracting Company. The company was established in partnership and money was deposited in different bank accounts in Oman. We received the money on Wednesday.” Quadar, who works as an engineer at Bannadi Company in Tajikistan, said, “My father died due to a heart ailment and my mother was in Muscat when the incident took place. Later, she shifted to our ancestral place in Dhanbad.” “Being the legal nominee, his money was provided to my mother Farhat Anjum,” said Quadar, who is a B.Tech graduate from BIT-Mesra. Currently, he is working from his home due to the ongoing pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-124
03-03-2021||Jharkhand||Gomia residents welcome decision to develop Luggu Hills||Residents of the maoist-infested Gomia block in Bokaro rejoiced as the Hemant Soren government announced to develop the area’s Luggu Hill as a major tourist destination, during the state Budget presentation on Wednesday. “Seeing the importance of the place, the state government will develop Luggu as a huge tourist destination. All the basic facilities and infrastructures required by tourists will be developed under the scheme,” the government announced. “Though the overall Budget is a flop, I welcome the development of Luggu Hill as a tourist destination,” AJSU-P MLA of Gomia Lambodar Mahto said. Lobin Murmu, a Santhal resident of the area welcomed the decision of the state government. “There is a big natural cave atop the hill inside where devotees offer puja to Luggu Baba,” he said. Apart from Santhalis, the people belonging to other communities have a strong belief in Luggu Baba, who is believed to be another avatar of Shiva. Surrounded by dense forests and traversed by streams and perennial springs, Luggu is considered one of the most beautiful areas of the state. Santosh Murmu, a resident, said, “We are happy that Luggu will be developed as a tourist point. It will increase the footfall of tourists.” However, BJP leader Biranchi Narayan claimed that the announcement made by the government was a way to take credit of a decision already made by the saffron party. “The BJP government had already installed facilities and infrastructures for the visitors and tourists. Developmental activities were already being conducted with the allocation provided during our regime in the state,” he said. The BJP had earlier planned to install a museum in the area that would have a collection of Santhal literature and traditional musical instruments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-124
03-03-2021||Jharkhand||Former BJP chief ministers say budget 'visionless'||The BJP and AJSU Party, the two NDA partners in the Opposition in Jharkhand, termed the state budget tabled in the Assembly on Wednesday  as a "visionless" document with nothing in it for the long-term as claimed by chief minister Hemant Soren. Former chief minister Raghubar Das said, “The budget is depressing” and wondered about the status of actions taken on the previous budget. “Allocating funds can’t bring growth if these aren’t spent. This government must present an action taken report (ATR) like my government used to do,” he said. Union tribal affairs minister and former CM Arjun Munda said despite tall claims of the state government, the budget did not reveal how it wanted to create jobs. “The state is reeling under unemployment, especially after the Covid-19 lockdown. But the budget doesn’t specify how it intends to create jobs,” he said. State BJP president and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash mocked the state government for hinging on central assistances to prepare ther budget. “Of the total budget size, Rs 40,000 crores will be from Central assistance. This exposes the dual attitude of the state government. On the one hand it has been blaming lack of assistance from the Centre and on the other hand, all its major schemes will be funded by Central coffers. All that the state government is trying to do is pass it off as its own plans by renaming and repackaging,” he alleged. Former deputy chief minister and AJSU-P chief Sudesh Mahto stressed that government should have made provisions for free Covid vaccination. “There is nothing to cheer but we would have welcomed it if the state government thought of providing free vaccination to people in the state where the majority is poor,” he said. Opposition BJP MLAs, wearing saffron T-shirts and kurtas with slogans printed against the government, resorted to protests within and outside the Assembly during and after the presentation of the state budget on Wednesday. The slogans on the T-shirts were against the government for scrapping the state recruitment policy framed by the former BJP-led government, poor law and order and joblessness, among others. As the Assembly proceedings began, Congress's   Poriyahat MLA Pradeep Yadav objected to the BJP MLAs' saffron attire in the House and sought their eviction. The Speaker later asked the BJP MLAs to maintain decorum and shed the saffron dresses. The MLAs refused, forcing the Speaker to adjourn the House amid pandemonium.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-124
03-03-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma sanctuary celebrates World Wildlife Day||The Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary on Wednesday celebrated World Wildlife Day  by feeding animals and raising awareness about the importance of protecting the jumbo abode and its flora and fauna. Foresters, forest guards, trackers, members of the eco-development committee and people of nearby villages assembled at Makulokaocha, the gateway to the sprawling 192 sq km, to celebrate the occasion. Foresters and villagers fed bananas to two domesticated elephants, Rajni and Champa, as well as monkeys who trouped down from the mountains. They also went inside the deer park to feed the animals. "The importance of World Wildlife Day was explained to those who had gathered. Stress was also laid on the need to protect the sanctuary from incidents of fire which usually occurs during summer," said Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra. “Villagers who venture into the sanctuary smoke bidis and them inside. The bidis fall on dry leaves and cause fire. It is a perennial problem and we are trying our best to make villagers understand about the dangers of smoking inside the sanctuary," Chandra added. Members of eco development committee, who play an important role in spreading awareness about the futility of killing innocent animals during Bishu Shikar or Sendra (the annual hunt festival of the tribals which takes place at the sanctuary), said they were on their job and people are slowly but steadily understanding the need to protect the jungles and animals. "We took a pledge to protect the sanctuary and its animals. Today is an important day which tells us about the need to protect the environment. This can only be done if we love our jungles and animals," said Manoj Pradhan, an active  member of eco-development committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-124
03-03-2021||Jharkhand||State budget thrust on social sectors, including health & education||The Hemant Soren government tabled a budget of Rs 91,277 crore for the 2021-22 fiscal on Wednesday with a major thrust on rural development, education, health and social welfare schemes to counter challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic. No new taxes were announced, but state finance minister Rameshwar Oraon unveiled a slew of welfare measures including a universal pension scheme for widows and the elderly, a centralised one-stop helpline for senior citizens, Guruji kitchen yojana, scholarships for ST students to pursue higher studies in foreign varsities and extension of farm loan waivers. Many of these schemes were announced earlier when the JMM-Congress-RJD alliance government completed one year in December last year but were included in the budget now to pave the way for their rollout. Major budget allocations were split into three broad categories — general, social and economic sectors. The maximum allocation was set aside for the social sector (Rs 33,625.72 crore), followed by the economic sector (Rs 30,917.23 crore) and general sector (Rs 26,734.50 crore). Chief minister Hemant Soren described the budget as a “template of long-term planning” with the aim of balancing both rural and urban concerns. According to the budget document, of the total estimates, receipts comprise of 25.49 per cent receipts are from state revenues, 24.16 per cent from the state’s share in central taxes, 14.79 per cent from state’s own taxes, 19.60 per cent from grants in aids, form borrowings 15.89 per cent and from recovery of loans/advances 0.7 per cent. Similarly, spending per rupee will be 14.54 per cent for education, 14.16 per cent for rural development, 8.55 per cent for health and drinking water, 8.05 per cent for social welfare/welfare, 6.28 per cent for agriculture & allied services, 4.78 per cent for energy, 3.10 per cent for urban development and housing, among others. Speaking to reporters after the day’s House proceedings, Oraon said the fiscal deficit for 2021-22 has been pegged at Rs 10,210.87 crore which is 2.83 per cent of GSDP. “In 2019-20, the state’s growth rate stood at 6.7 per cent which suffered a hit due to the global pandemic as per the nationwide trend. In the current fiscal, the nation’s GDP is expected to fall by 7.5 per cent. In Jharkhand, it is expected to contract by 6.9 per cent. Compared to the national trend, we are slightly better placed,” he said, adding that in the next fiscal, the state’s growth rate is expected to be about 9.5 per cent. Chief minister Hemant Soren hailed the budget as a template of long-term planning. He said the government has tried to balance both rural and urban concerns to ensure a congenial environment for all to earn a suitable livelihood, improve living conditions and be self-sufficient. “Unlike the earlier government, which devised most of the policies keeping short-term gains in mind, we have set a long-term vision to steer growth. Results too will be visible gradually. We have seen how the state’s economy went for toss during the time of the ‘during double engine government’,” Hemant said, adding that for the first time the government also tabled an outcome budget along with the state budget for about a dozen departments. “The purpose of the outcome budget is to tell the public the kind of end results the government is expecting from that particular department through various schemes,” he explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-124
03-03-2021||Jharkhand||Ratan Tata, others pay tributes to founder J.N. Tata in steel city||Led by Tata Sons chairman emeritus Ratan Tata, Tata Steel paid rich tributes to its founder, Jamsetji Nusserwanji Tata, on his 182nd birth anniversary in Jamshedpur on Wednesday. Among the other dignitaries present on the occasion were Tata Sons chairman N Chandrasekaran, Tata steel CEO and MD T. V. Narendran,  Tata Steel executive director Koushik Chatterjee, vice-presidents of the company and office bearers of Tata Workers' Union. The theme of this year’s Founder`s Day  celebration was “Agile Today for a Sustainable Tomorrow”. The celebrations were subdued in view of Covid-19. But, the spirit of occassion was intact as exemplified in the programmes that were organised to mark the occasion even if with limited participation. Over 30 contingents representing various divisions and departments of Tata Steel and Tata Steel group companies paid homage to the founder at the works main gate inside the premises. The celebration was also live streamed for employees and a select group of Jamshedpur citizens. In his address at Bistupur Postal Park, N. Chandrasekaran congratulated residents of Jamshedpur for their collective resolve and commitment to a better tomorrow. “The last 12 months have been very difficult, challenging and all of us have gone through some kind of hardships. In spite of all that, both Tata Steel and citizens of Jamshedpur have come together, worked together, to fight this pandemic in the most befitting way,” he said. Chandrasekaran also mentioned that the Tata Group, under the leadership of Ratan Tata, committed significant financial resources and engaged in a number of activities to aid in food, healthcare, in this past year. He  thanked the frontline workers, staff of Tata Main Hospital, the CSR team and citizens of Jamshedpur for actively playing their role in safeguarding the community. On Tuesday, the academy building of the Naval Tata Hockey Academy, at the Indian Steel and Wire Products Limited, and Tata Steel Gateway Structure at Telephone Exchange Gate in Jamshedpur, were inaugurated by Ratan Tata and Chandrasekaran in the presence of T V Narendran. The customary illumination at the Founder's Statue at Jubilee Park was also inaugurated by N Chandrasekaran, where he was joined by other dignitaries to pay homage to the founder. Lighting was limited this year in view of the pandemic and to avoid a public gathering. Even then, over a dozen heritage buildings and more than 30  roundabouts across Jamshedpur were illuminated. The illuminations will continue till March 5. Like previous years, an exhibition at Steelenium Hall inside Jamshedpur Works was also organised. This year’s theme is "Accelerating to the future: Learning from the pandemic and pioneering a new operating paradigm". Shining cases on the journey of Tata Steel, including aspects of technology leadership and organisational agility that enabled the company pioneer a new operating paradigm, were displayed by various departments and divisions of Tata Steel. In view of the pandemic, sporting activities at the JRD Sports Complex was restricted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-124
03-03-2021||Jharkhand||Woman, suffering from mental health issues, jumps off building||A 38-year-old woman on Wednesday died on spot when she jumped off a building at the densely-populated area of Dhatkidih in Jamshedpur, at around 11:30 am when the locality was buzzing with activities. Sources said Udzama Khatoon, a mother of three children, climbed up the sixth floor of the building from her ground floor residence and fell to her death. Bistupur Police Station OC Vishnu Raut said he had taken a statement from the deceased’s husband Mohammed Samser Alam, who informed that his wife was undergoing treatment for mental ailment since the past one year. "We took a statement from the deceased's husband and also checked the medical papers related to treatment of her mental issues. There was no foul play behind the incident," Raut told The Telegraph Online. Police had reached the spot within 10 minutes after the incident occured. "I was supposed to take her to CMC Vellore on Wednesday evening for treatment but she took this unimaginable, drastic step before that," Alam said while talking to this website. In a similar incident, a 20-year-old youth, identified as Rajesh Das, was found hanging at his Bagbera residence on Wednesday morning. He too was going through mental issues, police said. Both the bodies of Khatoon and Das have been shifted to the mortuary of the MGM Medical College and Hospital for autopsy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-124
03-03-2021||Jharkhand||Only 2 of 71 private hospitals offering jabs in Ranchi ||Only two of the 71 private hospitals empanelled for the second phase of the immunization programme here in Ranchi have started inoculating senior citizens and middle-agers with comorbid conditions, officials spearheading the vaccination drive said on Wednesday. As per government data, as many as 885 senior citizens and 26 middle-agers with comorbid conditions have been inoculated in the state capital since the launch of the second phase of vaccination. Only about 155 of these beneficiaries were administered the first jab of the Covidhield vaccine at a private facility, data compiled by private hospitals highlight. As of now, only Raj Hospital and Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital have started the vaccination drive for senior citizens and those above 45 years with comorbid conditions in Ranchi. Gradually, more empanelled hospitals will start the process of vaccination as more healthcare workers get trained,” said the state immunisation officer, Dr Ajit Prasad. Across the state, only about 13 of over 450 empanelled private hospitals have started inoculating beneficiaries for the second phase of the vaccination drive. The rush for vaccination, he said, was greater in government facilities in comparison to private clinics and hospitals. “We organised training sessions for healthcare workers in private hospitals on February 27 and 28 for the second phase of the immunization programme that started on March 1. However, the training process is still underway in many private hospitals,” said Dr. Prasad. While the vaccine jabs are administered free of cost at government hospitals, private hospitals are charging Rs 250 for each of the two jabs. However, sources said that more beneficiaries will register with private hospitals for vaccination gradually as Rs 500 was a nominal charge and affordable for most of the urban residents. On Tuesday – Day 2 of the second phase of the drive – around 55 senior citizens were administered the first dose of the vaccine at Medica on the day, while 100 people got the jab at Raj Hospital in Ranchi. Sources from private hospitals said that technical glitches in the Co-Win 2.0 mobile app also caused delay in starting the vaccination programme in private hospitals. As per government data, more than 3 lakh people have been administered the first dose of the Covishield vaccine in Jharkhand so far. Besides, around 30,000 people have also been administered the second dose of the vaccine 28 days after they got the first jab. In the first phase of the immunization, which started on January 16, the government inoculated only healthcare workers and frontline workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-124
03-03-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand finance minister tables budget in Assembly||Finance minister Rameshwar Oraon on Wednesday tabled a budget worth Rs 91270 crore in Jharkhand Vidhan Sabha for 2021-22 fiscal year amid the din by BJP MLAs. In a bizzare move, BJP's Kunti MLA Neelkanth Singh Munda kept reading old budget of Raghubar Das government tenure in the assembly as part of protest while Oraon read the budget.  Earlier, speaker Rabindranath Mahto was forced to adjourn the proceedings till 12 noon minutes after the session began at 11am because of BJP's continuous protest. Clad in saffron T-shirts and kurtas bearing slogans against Hemant government, BJP MLAs resorted to protest both inside and outside the House. The saffron dress which they wore bore slogans against the government for scrapping state recruitment policy, law and order issues, joblessness among others. As the House began, Congress's Poriyahat MLA Pradeep Yadav objected to BJP MLAs present inside the House in saffron costumes demanding their ouster. Speaker later asked BJP lawmakers to maintain decorum and shed the saffron dresses which they denied forcing him to adjourn the house amid the pandemonium.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-124
03-03-2021||Jharkhand||Over 3,000 senior citizens vaccinated in a day in the state||As many as 3238 senior citizens and 260 middle-aged residents with comorbid conditions were inoculated against the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on Tuesday, taking the total count of senior citizens administered the first dose of the vaccine in the state to 4,151 since the launch of the second phase of the immunization programme on Monday, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As per government data, as many as 704 senior citizens were inoculated in Ranchi on the day – the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. A report released by the NHM stated that 397 senior citizens in Bokaro, 276 in Dhanbad and only 70 in East Singhbhum were administered the first dose of the Covishield vaccine. With only five senior citizens inoculated on the day, Hazaribagh was the worst performer among Jharkhand districts on Tuesday. Of the 260 beneficiaries older than 45 years and with comorbid conditions vaccinated on the day, 60 were from Ramgarh, eight from Ranchi, only two from East Singhbhum, 55 from Deoghar and 17 from Bokaro, the NHM report revealed. As per data shared by private hospitals, only about 200 beneficiaries were administered the first jab of the vaccine at private facilities in Ranchi. Only Raj Hospital on Main Road and Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital near Booty More started inoculating senior citizens and middle-agers with comorbid conditions in Ranchi on the day, health officials said. Meanwhile, the state also administered the first dose of the vaccine to 6305 healthcare workers and frontline workers, taking the total count of beneficiaries getting vaccinated in the first phase of the immunization programme in Jharkhand to 3,01,192, a separate report from the NHM stated. Jharkhand achieved only 27 per cent of its target for inoculating frontline workers and healthcare workers on the day. However, in totality, the state has achieved 82 per cent of its vaccination target so far. On Tuesday, the second dose of the vaccine was administered to 4587 healthcare workers and frontline workers, who received the first dose a month ago. The state achieved 58 per cent of its target in administering the second dose of the vaccine to registered beneficiaries on the day. The number of active cases of Covid-19 infection drew close to 500 on Tuesday as the state reported only 38 Covid recoveries against 51 fresh cases in 24 hours, a bulletin released by NHM stated. On Tuesday night, at least 498 people were battling the viral infection in Jharkhand. Ranchi, once again, reported more than half of the fresh cases in Jharkhand and also witnessed a rise in active cases on Tuesday.  With 28 cases and 23 recoveries, Ranchi saw a minor rise in active cases to 291, the bulletin further stated. The state did not report Covid casualties on the day. As per government data, as many as 1,20,037 Jharkhand residents have been infected by the lethal virus so far and 98.67 per cent of them have recovered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-124
03-03-2021||Jharkhand||40-year-old patient’s body found in Dumka Medical College and Hospital pond||The body of 40-year-old patient of Dumka Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) in Jharkhand’s Dumka, the headquarters of the Santhal Pargana, was found in a pond, barely few meters from the hospital and the body was handed over by the police to the relatives, without mandatory post-mortem on Tuesday. The development shows the height of callousness in the health department and the careless manner of the police machinery. According to information, Sikandar Sheikh was admitted on Monday morning with diarrhoeal symptoms at the Dumka Medical College and Hospital. He was undergoing treatment at the hospital and not given any discharge letter from the hospital. However, on Tuesday morning at 9.30 am he was not found on his bed at the medicine ward. Few hours later his body was found floating at the pond situated at the back of the hospital and the police were informed. According to a local in Dumka, the Sikandar Sheikh used to sell meat at Jaruadih Mohalla in Dumka town and used to drink liquor. When contacted superintendent of DMCH, Dr Ravindra Kumar, gave a weird explanation about the reason for the patient disappearing from the hospital. “At times it happens that a patient feels perfect and healthy after his stay in the hospital and expresses desire to be discharged and is allowed to go out of the hospital. It might have happened in this case too. We will have to look into the CCTV footages to see how he left the hospital premises,” said Dr Ravindra Kumar. When prodded further on if the doctor on duty at the ward had issued discharge slip to the deceased patient, Dr Ravindra Kumar said, “The patient was admitted on Monday with vomiting and loose motion and when the doctor on duty went on round at the ward at around 9 am the patient was not found in his bed. The doctor informed the concerned officials. Later we were told that the body of the patient was found in the pond. We are not sure how this happened. We will see the CCTV footages for any leads.” Significantly, there are more than two dozen CCTV cameras installed at vintage locations of the hospital inaugurated in 2019. There are security guards doing duty on rotation basis round the clock at the hospital that puts question marks on a patient disappearing from the ward without anybody’s knowledge. The police gave an even more weird reason for handing over the body to the relatives without autopsy. “The relatives gave in writing that they do not want post-mortem and that he was admitted in the hospital and had died of natural reason. So we handed over the body without post-mortem,” said Dumka town police station senior clerk Ashok Kumar Singh holding charge in absence of officer-in-charge, Deobrata Poddar who is on leave. Significantly, the hospital falls under Dumka town thana jurisdiction. Deputy commissioner Dumka B. Rajeshwari, however, promised to conduct a probe into the incident. “We will investigate the matter and take action if any negligence is found on DMCH’s side,” the deputy commissioner said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-125
