04-03-2021||Calcutta||Cochlear tips from parent and doctor||A two-and-half-year-old girl underwent a cochlear implant in February 2020 at SSKM Hospital and within a month of the surgery, the nationwide lockdown was imposed. The mother, a 22-year-old woman, thought her daughter would immediately start speaking but soon realised that was not how it worked. Her daughter would need speech and language stimulation. Despite the lockdown, the mother would travel to the hospital with her daughter once a month from a village in Nadia, about 140km from the city. “I had thought that after the implant my daughter would start speaking. This is a mistake that most parents make. She needed therapy and after a year of that she now can respond if I call her, calls out family members by their name,” said the mother. She was sharing her experience at the Institute of Otorhinolaryngology and Head & Neck Surgery-Centre Of Excellence, IPGMER-SSKM Hospital on Wednesday morning at a programme organised by the institute on World Hearing Day. The institute has conducted cochlear implants on 67 children free of cost since 2016. Usually, each implant costs around Rs 14.5 to 15 lakh. Of the 67 children, 40 attended the programme. In a cochlear implant, the sound is converted into electrical energy and is transmitted to the brain, explained Arunabha Sengupta, the professor of ENT at SSKM’s Institute of Otorhinolaryngology and Head & Neck Surgery. “Early detection is very important. We are happy for these children and their families. There are 50 more for whom it will be done,” said Sengupta. According to the World Health Organisation, four out of 1,000 children globally are born with complete hearing loss, said Sengupta. Often families overlook the signs as it happened with the two-and-half year old girl. “I realised it when she was only 22 days old. She did not wake up when there was a loud noise outside our house. I told my mother and subsequently, others but nobody paid any heed. But by the time she was one I realised that we needed to consult a doctor who told us to get screenings done. After two screenings, we found that she had profound hearing loss. The family was not ready for a cochlear implant but I was determined to get it done,” said her mother. She gets her daughter for therapy to the hospital once a week even now. “After the implant the child hears sounds and without speech and language stimulation the child wont be able to discriminate between words. Children need to have Auditory Verbal Therapy,” said Md Sahidul Arefin, audiologist and speech language pathologist. Arefin said the auditory training includes listening to words from behind or by covering one’s mouth so that the child cannot lip read. The 40 children came on Wednesday morning, some of them recited poems to a full house. But while they can now speak, the road is not easy for most who have to fight families and circumstances to identify and acknowledge the issue. “It took us almost six months to decide whether we could get the implant done but we are happy that we did it,” said a mother, whose daughter got operated when she was two.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-125
04-03-2021||Calcutta||Tollywood actor Ankush Hazra’s PA found hanging||Tollywood actor Ankush Hazra’s personal assistant Pintu Dey, better known as Bappa, was found hanging from the grille of the washroom window in his aunt’s house in Narkeldanga on Tuesday. Family members found him hanging from a towel. No note was found. Ankush, who made his debut in 2010 with Kellafate, said Dey, 36, had been working for him for close to a decade and was “more than a family member”. Dey’s relatives have told police that he was apparently under pressure after he started receiving threats from an unknown person last month. They said the man would regularly threaten Dey saying he would make public a private video featuring him and kept demanding money. “The family has alleged that in the last call the offender claimed to be the city detective chief and threatened to get Pintu (Dey) arrested within two hours if he did not pay Rs 10,000,” said an officer of Narkeldanga police station. “We have started a case of unnatural death. Depending on the findings of the post-mortem report, we may draw up a case of abetment to suicide,” the officer said. Officers of the cyber crime wing said they had been receiving complaints along the same lines. The offender would first strike friendship on social media and then threaten to release some videos unless the victims paid up. A popular face on film sets in Tollygunge, several actors joined Ankush in expressing grief at Dey's death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-125
04-03-2021||Calcutta||IIM Calcutta opts for virtual convocation||IIM Calcutta will hold its convocation online on May 15. According to an official of the institute, a meeting of the academic council on Wednesday discussed the possibility of holding the event on the campus but ruled against it eventually. A member of the council said that as students would leave the hostels after completion of their final-term exams in April, holding the ceremony on the campus would have meant recalling the outgoing batch to the campus amid the pandemic. “We wanted to avoid the situation and settled for the online mode,” said the member. Last year, the institute did not have any convocation at all and the degree certificates were mailed to the residential address of the recipients. “This year, too, the certificates will be dispatched in the same way after the online event,” said another council member. At the IIM, students were called back to the campus in batches from September so they could use the institute’s network facility to attend online classes. Classes at the Joka B-school have been held online since August last year. Over 550 students will be graduating this year from the two-year MBA and one-year MBAEx programmes together. An official of the institute said usually they allowed parents to accompany the students to the convocation ceremony. “But this year we cannot allow that. So the online mode was preferred,” he said. Many of the students stay in far-off places. If they had to be recalled, they would have to follow a detailed standard operating procedure and the institute did not want students to undergo the hassle again, said an official. Last month, IIT Kharagpur had held the convocation virtually, but the medal winners were invited to the campus to receive the honours. Will the IIM follow this mode of limited attendance while holding the ceremony offline? “The convocation committee will look into this. However, chances are less. At the IIT, apart from a handful of research scholars, the students were not staying in hostels,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-125
04-03-2021||Calcutta||Amid app hiccups, city hospitals opt for spot-registration||Several private hospitals that started giving Covid-19 vaccine jabs to senior citizens and people above 45 with comorbidities on Wednesday got the recipients registered with the Co-Win2 portal at their help desks, instead of having them self-register, to avoid delays and long waits. However, many private hospitals could not start vaccinating the two categories because of glitches in the registration portal. To get vaccinated, prospective recipients need to register with a particular hospital for a date through the Co-Win2 portal. However, since Monday, the first day of vaccination of the elderly and people above 45 with comorbidities, the portal has been developing glitches frequently. So on Tuesday, many of the hospitals helped prospective recipients register themselves through the portal on their premises. At Peerless Hospital, 63 elderly persons were vaccinated on Wednesday and all got themselves registered at the hospital. Hospital officials said that since Tuesday night, they had been calling up senior citizens who are registered patients of Peerless to visit the hospital and get vaccinated against Covid on Wednesday. “We have set up help-desks and our employees helped the recipients get registered with the portal. Shots were given after that. This way, there was no confusion about timing. Nor were there long queues,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. He said no one who had pre-registered for vaccination turned up. At the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, 55 elderly people were vaccinated and all the registrations were done at the spot, said officials. “We had initially planned to do manual recording of the details of elderly people because there were problems with the functioning of the portal on the first two days (Monday and Tuesday). This way the recipients would have been spared long waits. But this morning we saw the portal was functioning and so decided to first get the recipients registered and then give the doses,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which the Mukundapur hospital is a flagship unit. Spot registration, he said, was taking 15 minutes to half an hour because the portal was slow. “We will be continuing with the spot registration on Thursday, too,” said Venkatesh. Metro reported on Tuesday and Wednesday how the malfunctioning of the Co-Win2 portal was leading to long waits for elderly people at hospitals and also created confusion. Many people had to go back without taking a jab, while others waited for hours to get one. The situation was better on Wednesday. “Despite some initial glitches with the Co-Win platform, the situation improved by noon and we could vaccinate a sizeable number of people,” said Rupak Barua, Group CEO, AMRI Hospitals. However, the vaccination could not start at the hospital’s Salt Lake unit because of glitches, said an official of AMRI. At Charnock Hospital, vaccination could not start on Wednesday because of the same reason. “We could not get access to the portal. Also, payments to buy the vials needed to be done through the portal, which could not be done,” said Ipsita Kundu, the CEO of the hospital. She said the hospital received hundreds of calls from elderly people who wanted to know whether the vaccination had started. An official of the state health department said the functioning of the Co-Win2 portal improved on Wednesday and expressed the hope that all hospitals would be able to administer the doses on Thursday. The hospitals, he said, will be allowed spot-registration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-125
04-03-2021||Calcutta||Fuel price rise drives city buses off roads||Private bus operators from over a dozen routes in and around Calcutta have either withdrawn their vehicles or reduced their numbers because of the rising cost of fuel. Many others are planning to do the same, unable to bear losses around the time when the transport sector is struggling to cope with the aftermath of the pandemic. The price of diesel has increased from around Rs 65 a litre a year ago to around Rs 85. The expenses on fuel account for the biggest component of the daily expenses of running a bus. The blow has been particularly hard for private bus operators, who do not have subsidies to fall back on unlike their government counterparts. Only about five of the 27 buses on route 34C, which connects Noapara in north Calcutta to Esplanade, are now operational. A little over 14 of the 50 buses on route 201, which connects Belghoria with Sector V, are now on the roads. About 12 of the 23 buses on route 222, which stretches from Bonhooghly near Dunlop to Behala Chowrasta, are now available to passengers. A number of private buses that ran between interiors of South 24-Parganas and Calcutta and its adjoining areas have been out of circulation for some time. The returns are too low to pay daily wages of the staff and spend on maintenance, the owners said. Over 70 buses used to ply on route 12C, which connects Pailan in South 24-Parganas to Howrah. Operators said about 30 of them are now plying. The vehicle count has also been drastically reduced on the routes connecting Bosepukur in Kasba to Sarsuna, Howrah Maidan to Salt Lake and Barasat to Botanical Garden. Owners said that earlier a private bus would ferry around 900 passengers throughout the day, making three or four trips. A bus would consume around 40 litres of diesel a day.. “The average take-home per day would be around Rs 1,400 to Rs 1,500. That has come down to around Rs 300 or Rs 400,” said Pradip Narayan Bose, of the West Bengal Bus and Minibus Owners Association. “So bus owners have either withdrawn their vehicles or cut down the number of daily trips.” Last August, the state government had declared a waiver of all taxes and fines on lapsed fitness certificates for bus and minibus owners. The waiver, with retrospective effect from April 1, came at a time operators of private buses and minibuses had been struggling to survive from the twin blows of a steep hike in the diesel price and a drop in the passenger count because of the pandemic. “Fuel accounts for the highest expenditure among all other components. Despite resumption of suburban trains and opening of schools, there hasn't been any significant rise in the number of passengers. And bus fares have remained the same. How do we survive?” asked Tapan Bandyopadhyay, of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-125
04-03-2021||Calcutta||Symposium on varied topics in Calcutta||A two-day symposium in the city is set to host a series of sessions on a range of topics like education, art production and policy, mental health, commerce, activism and the environment. The third edition of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam, partnered by The Telegraph, will be hosted by the Kolkata Centre for Creativity. The sessions will be held on physical and virtual platforms on Saturday and Sunday. The programme has been co-curated by Reena Dewan and Shwetal A. Patel. To register, one has to visit https://bit.ly/3dyMz7I. “The Covid-19 pandemic swept the whole world to a virtual standstill…. We aim to look back together to rediscover the treasures that could arise from those moments of gloom and desperation, allowing us the possibility to build a better and more equitable future,” said a spokesperson for the Kolkata Centre for Creativity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-125
04-03-2021||Calcutta||Be at your best against virus, advises Kunal Sarkar||A lookback at the whistleblower doctor who sounded the alarm on the virus to a comparison between women and men world leaders' handling of the pandemic, a cardiac surgeon and public health enthusiast spoke on the past, present and future of Covid-19 at Calcutta Club on Wednesday. “Is the worst over?” a talk by Kunal Sarkar, partnered by The Telegraph, was the “first awareness talk” at the club in the wake of Covid-19. Excerpts from the session. Sarkar paid tributes to Li Wenliang, the Chinese ophthalmologist said to have been the first medical professional to sound the alarm on the coronavirus weeks before he contracted the illness and died. "He is an absolute hero," Sarkar said, calling out the Chinese government for "suppressing information for two months”. Sarkar said planes propelled the journey of the disease from an epidemic to a pandemic. “The past pandemics spread through physical movement of people. The coronavirus spread through flights,” he said. He spoke how around 30 lakh people flew into India through Mumbai in the week before flights were suspended. "Going by the then prevalent infectivity rate, we let around six lakh potential infections into the country," he said. Pitting the likes of New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern and German Chancellor Angela Merkel against US and Brazilian Presidents Donald Trump and Jair Bolosonaro and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Sarkar said “countries led by women have done much better in handling the virus compared to countries with similar characteristics led by men” The “restrained” Durga Puja celebrations in Calcutta was an “exemplary success story” in the fight against the virus, said Sarkar. “If the worst is to be over, we have to be at our best," said Sarkar. India, he suggested, was in a reasonably better position because unlike other countries, the “first wave here lasted some seven months”. The vaccination needs to speed up, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-125
04-03-2021||Calcutta||Hands that ‘helped’ snatch bag||A Class X student and her mother whose scooter had broken down at Ballygunge Place while returning home on Sunday night were offered help by a youth, who later tugged at a bag the girl was holding and dragged her till she let go of it. The youth ran to a friend who was waiting for him with a motorcycle a few yards away and the two sped off. Police said the two youths were arrested with the help of CCTV footage, from where the cops learnt the registration number of the two-wheeler. The accused are Sheikh Fardin Ali, 20, of Kustiya Road in Tiljala, and Sheikh Imran Ali, 22, of Tiljala Road. Officers said Imran had snatched the bag, while Fardin was waiting for him with the motorcycle. The young girl’s struggle to hold on to the bag - which contained three mobile phones, including one that had details of her approaching board exams - brought back memories of homemaker Vidya Desai, who was shot at when she lunged at a bike and thwarted an attempt by three men to snatch her mangalsutra in Kasba in 2012. Sunday’s incident happened near South Point High School around 11.30pm, when the girl was returning home with her mother from her tuition class. “When the scooter broke down, I gave my handbag to my daughter and both of us were pushing the vehicle. A young man approached us and offered to help. I did not suspect anything at first and allowed him to push the vehicle. But after a few metres, when he started asking where we were headed, I felt uncomfortable and asked him to leave,” said the woman, a resident of Picnic Garden Road. The woman said the youth left but she did not notice that he was trailing them from a distance. “Suddenly I heard my daughter scream. When I turned back I saw the man trying to snatch my bag from her. She was struggling to hold on to the bag but the man first dragged her and then pushed her with a jerk. She fell. The man ran with my bag and hopped on a motorcycle, which then sped off,” the woman said. The stretch where the incident happened is lined with apartments and shops, some of which were open. “But no one stepped forward to chase the bike,” the woman said. The woman reported the matter to Gariahat police on Tuesday evening. Within hours, the police collected CCTV footage from the spot and could zero in on one of the accused, in whose name the motorcycle was registered. Fardin, who owns the bike, and Imran have been booked under IPC sections related to theft and common intention. An officer said they intended to carry out a test identification parade of the accused, which is possible if they are in judicial remand. A senior officer of Gariahat police station emphasised the role of CCTV cameras and said the case could be detected within hours only because of the cameras installed in the area. “This is the reason we request people to install CCTV cameras. They should understand the crucial role a camera can play in tracking down a criminal,” the officer said. A man riding a motorbike and the pillion rider were injured after the two-wheeler went out of control and rammed into a lamp post along Basanti Highway, near Chowbaga, on Tuesday night, police said. Manirul Zaman Mullick and the pillion rider, Rahaman Mullick, are from Bhangar. They have been admitted to the Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-125
04-03-2021||Calcutta||Torture cry in homemaker’s suicide||The parents of a young woman has alleged that their daughter was “compelled to commit suicide” because of “inhuman torture” at her in-laws’ home. Rashika Jain, 25, suffered critical injuries, possibly from a fall from the third-floor terrace of her in-laws’ home in Alipore on February 16, and died in hospital. She got married to industrialist Kushal Agarwal barely a year ago, on February 9, 2020, in an opulent ceremony in Jodhpur. Rashika’s family has alleged an initial delay in the police probe at the local level, after which the case was shifted to the women’s grievance cell of the detective department at Lalbazar. A fortnight after the homemaker’s death, police officers for the first time spoke at length to the Jains at their Raja Santosh Road home in Alipore on Wednesday. Kushal or his parents were not at their DL Khan Road home. The Agarwals are said to have told the police that they are at their other home in Purulia. Joint commissioner (crime) Murlidhar Sharma said during the day: “The case has been taken over by the DD. CCTV footage has been collected. We are in the process of collecting other evidence as well.” Rashika’s parents said they had succumbed to alleged demands made by their daughter’s in-laws thinking she would be happy to be married in a “well-known business family”. The Jains’ complaint to police says they had given jewellery and accessories worth Rs 7 crore to the Agarwals. The riches were given “partly at the time of Roka ceremony on November 8, 2019, partly at the Ring ceremony on December 14, 2019, and partly at the time of marriage on February 9, 2020”, according to the complaint. The Agarwals own multiple businesses, including a resort in Purulia and a cement manufacturing unit. Rashika’s father Mahendra Jain runs a logistics company that has its corporate office on Hemanta Basu Sarani. None of the members of the Agarwal family could be contacted for their reaction. Rashika’s father wrote in a complaint submitted to Alipore police station a day after her death: “We all are in a tremendous mental shock right now and are not in a position to comprehend and narrate all the facts and incidents in a nutshell right now. However, it is beyond any doubt that my daughter Rashika was compelled to commit suicide owing to inhuman torture meted out to her at her matrimonial home.” Based on the letter of complaint, officers of Alipore police station had on February 17 drawn an FIR against “Kushal Agarwal and others” and charged them under sections related to abetment to suicide, cruelty by husband and others and common intention. The charges, if proved, could lead to a maximum punishment of 10 years in jail. On February 25, Jain submitted a fresh seven-page complaint letter with details of allegations he had against the Agarwals. It lists several alleged vices that Kushal had. “All our hope and trust that the accused persons are respectable persons, were shattered to pieces when my daughter started reporting regularly to me that her husband is… and he and his parents had intentionally suppressed such facts from our family,” the Jains have written in their complaint. Several people close to the Jains said they had spent beyond their immediate means for their daughter’s wedding but the demands did not stop with the wedding ceremony. The letter submitted to the police on February 25 also had a detailed mention of the alleged demand to make arrangements for the “marriage at Umaid Bhawan Palace, Jodhpur, Sangeet Night at ITC Welcomhotel, Jodhpur, a safari at Khimsar Sand Dunes Resort, Khimsar, and Tilak ceremony at Mehrangarh Fort, Jodhpur.” Jain alleged that “in the month of August 2020, Mr Kushal Agarwal hit my daughter on her face due to which my daughter could not see properly for a period of 3 days and had to consult Dr Nandini Roy”, an ophthalmologist. Asked what prompted the bereaved parents to remain silent if they knew that their daughter was being “tortured,” Rashika’s mother Sangita said: “In our community we do not involve the police unless we really have to. We kept on hoping that things would improve. But after losing my daughter I am making an appeal to all mothers to help their child instead of thinking what people will think or say.” Rashika’s family members said she was a good student, who won several academic accolades when she was a student at Mahadevi Birla Girls Academy. She did her BBA from St Xavier’s College and then went to Singapore for further studies. Elder among two siblings, her younger brother Rishav has recently returned to Calcutta after completing his studies abroad, a relative said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-125
04-03-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles 599 points in line with global meltdown||Snapping its three-session winning run, the BSE Sensex plunged by around 599 points to crack below the key 51,000-level on Thursday amid a meltdown in global shares triggered by a surge in US bond yields. Intra-day, the 30-share BSE index fell as much as 905 points before ending the session at 50,846.08, showing a decline of 598.57 points or 1.16 per cent. The broader NSE Nifty too closed with a loss of 164.85 points or 1.08 per cent at 15,080.75. On the Sensex chart, HDFC, L&T, SBI, Axis Bank, Bajaj FinServ and HDFC Bank were major laggards dropping up to 2.62 per cent. Of 30 Sensex shares, 25 closed with losses. "Domestic equities traded lower today mainly on weak global cues Financials and Metals indices were keg drags today, while FMCG, Pharma and IT indices were resilient. A sharp 6 bps rise in 10-Year USA treasury yield made investors jittery today, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Over the previous three sessions, the Sensex had risen by 2,344.66 points or 4.77 per cent, while the Nifty had added 716.45 points or 4.93 per cent. Foreign investors had bought equities worth Rs 2,088.70 crore on a net basis in Indian capital markets on Wednesday, according to exchange data. On Thursday, Asian shares too tumbled after an overnight surge in bond yields dragged Wall Street lower. On the forex market front, the rupee ended 11 paise lower at 72.83 against the US dollar. Meanwhile, global crude oil benchmark Brent was trading 1.16 per cent higher at USD 64.73 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
04-03-2021||Business||EPFO fixes 8.5 per cent interest rate in current financial year||Retirement fund organisation EPFO on Thursday decided to retain 8.5 per cent rate of interest on provident fund deposits for the current financial year. EPFO has more than five crore active subscribers. The Employees' Provident Fund Organisation's (EPFO) apex decision-making body Central Board of Trustees decided to fix 8.5 per cent rate of interest for 2020-21 at its meeting in Srinagar on Thursday, sources said. There were speculations that the EPFO would lower interest on provident fund deposits for this fiscal (2020-21) from 8.5 per cent given in 2019-20 in view of more withdrawals and lesser contribution by members amid the coronavirus pandemic. In March last year, the EPFO had lowered interest rate on provident fund deposits to a seven-year low of 8.5 per cent for 2019-20, from 8.65 per cent in 2018-19. The EPF (Employees Provident Fund) interest rate provided for 2019-20 was the lowest since 2012-13, when it was 8.5 per cent. The EPFO had provided 8.65 per cent interest rate to its subscribers in 2016-17 and 8.55 per cent in 2017-18. The rate of interest was slightly higher at 8.8 per cent in 2015-16. It had given 8.75 per cent rate of interest in 2013-14 as well as 2014-15, higher than 8.5 per cent for 2012-13. The EPFO had provided 8.25 per cent rate of interest on provident fund in 2011-12.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
04-03-2021||Business||HDFC reduces home loan rates by five basis points||HDFC, the country’s largest housing finance company (HFC), on Wednesday said it has cut its rates by five basis points. HDFC’s loans will now start from 6.75 per cent. The mortgage lender’s offer to its existing and new clients comes soon after competitors such as State Bank of India and Kotak Mahindra Bank brought down their rates by 10 basis points. A statement by the lender said it had reduced its retail prime lending rate — against which all its loans are benchmarked — by five basis points with effect from March 4. HDFC said the change would benefit all existing retail customers. Before this revision, the corporation was offering loans beginning at 6.80 per cent. Bond issue In a separate announcement, HDFC said it will raise up to Rs 5,000 crore by issuing non-convertible debentures on a private placement basis. In a regulatory filing, HDFC said that the issue will open on March 5 and close the same day. The base size of the issue of secured redeemable NCDs is Rs 2,000 crore with an option to retain oversubscription up to Rs 3,000 crore, it added. Meanwhile, state-owned Bank of Baroda has raised Rs 4,500-crore equity capital through a qualified institutional placement (QIP). The capital raising committee of the board on Wednesday approved the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
04-03-2021||Business||Sensex dives 726 points in early trade tracking global sell-offs||The BSE Sensex slumped over 726 points to slip below the key 51,000-level in early trade on Thursday, tracking meltdown in global shares due to surge in bond yields overseas. The 30-share Sensex was trading at 50,718.36, showing a fall of 726.29 points or 1.41 per cent. While the broader NSE Nifty was trading down 197.05 points or 1.29 per cent at 15,048.55. On the Sensex chart, HDFC duo fell as much as 2.48 per cent, followed by Bajaj FinServ, Kotak Bank and Bajaj Finance dropping up to 2.23 per cent. Of Sensex shares, 27 traded in the red. Over the previous three sessions, the Sensex had risen by 2,344.66 points or 4.77 per cent, while the Nifty had added 716.45 points or 4.93 per cent. Asian shares tumbled on Thursday after an overnight surge in bond yields dragged Wall Street lower. "Bond yields are now exerting a major influence on stock prices, globally. After spiking to 1.6 per cent on February 25, the US 10-year yield fell to 1.4 per cent and yesterday it has again risen to 1.48 per cent impacting equity markets," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Foreign investors had bought equities worth Rs 2,088.70 crore on a net basis in Indian capital markets on Wednesday, according to exchange data. Meanwhile, global crude oil benchmark Brent was trading 0.36 per cent higher at USD 64.22 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
04-03-2021||Business||Hospitality industry pins hopes on travel revival||The hospitality industry, overlooked in the Union budget, hopes to receive some support from the Centre once international travel opens up. Puneet Chhatwal, chairman, CII national committee on tourism and hospitality, said while the industry would indirectly benefit from infrastructure spending by the Centre, the grant of infrastructure status would benefit the sector that has borne the brunt of the Covid pandemic. “The industry has not given up the expectations. We do feel during the course of the year, once international travel opens up something in some form will come,” said Chhatwal on Tuesday. “We got the industry status in Maharashtra and Karnataka and we are in negotiations and talks with other states,” he added. Hotels in Bengal do not have industry status at present The industry status lowers the burden of utility payments and duties to the state, including high-cost items such as electricity, water and property. This will improve the operational cost. However, according to the industry, there is room for streamlining the benefits and improving the ease of doing business. The government has granted infrastructure industry status to hotel projects that are above Rs 200 crore. But as mid-market hotel projects come in at less than this amount, promoters have to pay back the loans in a relatively shorter time period of eight years. The CII in a note on the revival roadmap of the sector had urged the government to give infrastructure industry status for lower investments. “The tax benefits would help hotels secure long-term loans with repayment schedules of 15-25 years. This will help in getting increased return on investments,” said the CII note. Occupancy dips The occupancy rate for India’s hotels in January 2021 was subdued after a frenzy in December 2020, according to hospitality consultancy HVS Anarock. At 46-48 per cent level, the increase in occupancy in January was a mere 1-2 per cent above December whereas the growth was 27-29 per cent above November 2020. The spike in December was on account of the holiday season.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
04-03-2021||Business||Rishi Sunak raises UK corporate tax to 25%||Finance minister Rishi Sunak announced a costly extension of his emergency aid programmes to see Britain’s economy through its current coronavirus lockdown, but announced a tax hike for many businesses as he began to focus on fixing the public finances. Delivering an annual budget speech on Wednesday, Sunak said the economy will regain its pre-pandemic size in the middle of 2022, six months earlier than forecast, helped by Europe’s fastest Covid-19 vaccination programme. Sunak promised to do “whatever it takes” to steer the economy through what he hopes will be the final months of pandemic restrictions. In a first move to raise taxes, Sunak announced he would raise corporation tax to 25 per cent from 19 per cent from 2023, by which time the economy should be past the pandemic crisis. “Even after this change the UK will still have the lowest corporation tax rate in the G7 —lower than the US, Canada, Italy, Japan, Germany and France,” he said. Reuters Businesses with profits of 50,000 pounds or less would pay a new Small Profits Rate, maintained at the current rate of 19%. Sunak also said he would freeze the amount of money that people can earn tax-free and the threshold for the higher rate of income tax until 2026.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
04-03-2021||Business||Birla Corporation jute division sets export revenue goal of Rs 50 crore in 2021-22||The jute division of Birla Corporation has set its sight on an export revenue of Rs 50 crore in 2021-22, driven by value-added products. The company is looking to invest Rs 20 crore in the production line over the next two years. The company expects a shift in the mix between government orders and the more remunerative value-added products. The latter primarily includes shopping bags but the company expects to expand its offering. “Compared with jute bags sold to the government, value-added products make a much bigger contribution to profitability. Birla Jute Mills started its shopping bags stitching unit in September 2019 with an initial capacity of 2,000 bags per day. Within a year, the capacity has been scaled up to 10,000 bags per day. The aim is to double it to 20,000 bags per day within the next three years,” said G.R. Verma, president, Birla Jute Mills, Birla Corporation Limited. He added that Birla Jute Mills is conducting an internal research to use organic substances for lamination of jute bags instead of mineral oil-based polypropylene. Also, it is looking to launch other products such as mats, rugs, school bags and cooler bags. “In 2019-20, Birla Jute Mills’ export revenue was at Rs 39 crore. In the current financial year, export revenue is expected to remain unchanged despite severe disruptions in production and exports due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In the next financial year, it is expected that export revenue will go up to Rs 50 crore,” said Verma. He added that value-added products currently contribute around 22 percent of revenue, whereas contribution of jute bags sold to the government is around 56 per cent.There is a near term target to scale up the contribution of value-added products to 30 per cent of revenue, and reduce contribution of sales to the government to 45 per cent. “Despite challenges when the jute industry was going through a rough patch and mills were making losses, we invested to make Birla Jute more efficient and to expand into value-added products. Today, as the world increasingly realizes the environmental hazards of plastic, Birla Jute is turning in record profits quarter after quarter. And this, to my mind, is sustainable for a very long time into the future,” said Harsh V. Lodha, chairman, Birla Corporation Limited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
04-03-2021||Business||India’s services activity expands at fastest rate in a year during February||India’s services activity expanded at the fastest rate in a year during February, while employment fell further and companies noted the sharpest rise in overall expenses, a monthly survey said on Wednesday. The seasonally adjusted India Services Business Activity Index rose to 55.3 in February from 52.8 in January, pointing to the sharpest rate of expansion in output in a year amid improved demand and more favourable market conditions. The index was above the critical 50-mark that separates growth from contraction for the fifth month in a row during February as the roll-out of Covid-19 vaccines led to an improvement in business confidence. While new work intakes expanded for the fifth straight month, panellists continued to indicate that the Covid-19 pandemic and travel restrictions curbed international demand for their services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
04-03-2021||Business||Policy holders can file online complaints against insurance brokers||Complaints against insurance brokers can be put before an ombudsman, one of the major changes in the insurance ombudsman rules that were notified on Thursday. The changed rules allow policy holders to file online complaints, the finance ministry said. The scope of complaints to ombudsmen have been enhanced from just disputes to deficiencies in services by insurers, agents, brokers and other intermediaries. The government has notified comprehensive amendments to the Insurance Ombudsman Rules, 2017, with a view to improve the working of the ombudsman mechanism to facilitate resolution of complaints regarding deficiencies in insurance services in a timely, cost-effective and impartial manner. Under the amended rules, the timeliness and cost-effectiveness of the mechanism has been substantially strengthened. Policyholders can now file complaints electronically to the ombudsman, and a complaints management system will be created to enable them to track the status of their complaints online. Further, the ombudsman may use video-conferencing for hearings. “Further, insurance brokers have been brought within the ambit of the ombudsman mechanism, by empowering the ombudsmen to pass awards against insurance brokers as well,” the ministry said. “A number of amendments have been made for securing the independence and integrity of the ombudsman selection process, while also building in safeguards to secure the independence and impartiality of the appointed persons while serving as ombudsmen,” the ministry said. The selection committee will now include an individual with a track  record of promoting consumer rights or advancing the cause of consumer protection in the insurance sector. The ombudsman mechanism was administered by the Executive Council of Insurers, which has been renamed as the Council for Insurance Ombudsmen. If there is a vacancy in the post of an ombudsman, provision has been made in the rules to give additional charge to another ombudsman, pending the filling of the vacancy. A number of amendments have been made for securing the independence and integrity of the ombudsman selection process, while also building safeguards to secure the independence and impartiality of the appointed persons while serving as ombudsmen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
04-03-2021||Business||Jindal Steel & Power keen to acquire Reliance Naval & Engineering Ltd||Shares of Reliance Naval & Engineering Ltd (RNEL) were locked at the upper circuit on Wednesday on reports that Jindal Steel & Power (JSPL) and two others are interested to acquire the company. On the BSE, the Reliance Naval scrip ended 4.79 per cent higher at Rs 3.06. Around 8 lakh shares were transacted on the exchange against a two-week average of 6.65 lakh shares. A Bloomberg report said Reliance Naval can be a captive client for its ship building plates. The report added that Dubai-based shipping firm GMS and Kotak Special Situations Fund have also registered to bid for Reliance Naval. RNEL is now undergoing a debt resolution process in the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). It has an outstanding debt of around Rs 11,000 crore and IDBI Bank, the lead banker of the consortium of lenders of RNEL, had taken the company to NCLT Ahmedabad because of a default in loan repayment. Reliance Infratel The NCLT has upheld the petition of Doha Bank seeking priority payment for the financial creditors of Reliance Infratel which will lead to around Rs 3,515 crore recovery for the lenders, according to a source aware of the development. The payment has to be made from a payment of about Rs 4,400 crore realised from sale of assets to a Reliance Industries subsidiary. According to the source, State Bank of India will receive Rs 728 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
04-03-2021||Business||Adani Ports acquires 31.5 per cent stake in Gangavaram Port||Adani Ports and Special Economic Zones (APSEZ) Ltd is acquiring a 31.5 per cent stake held by an affiliate of Warburg Pincus in Gangavaram Port Ltd (GPL) and certain rail assets from the promoters, taking its market share in the country’s ports to 30 per cent. In a late evening announcement, Adani Ports said it will acquire the stake held by Windy Lakeside Investment Ltd, an affiliate of Warburg, in Gangavaram for Rs 1,954 crore, subject to regulatory approvals. Adani Ports said they were also in discussions with Gangavaram promoter — DVS Raju and family — for their 58.1 per cent stake, translating to around 30 crore shares, in the port. Gangavaram is located in the northern part of Andhra Pradesh next to the Vizag port. It is the second-largest non-major port in Andhra Pradesh with a 64-million-tonne capacity set up under concession from the Andhra Pradesh government that extends till 2059. It is an all-weather, deep water, multi-purpose port capable of handling fully laden super cape size vessels of up to 200,000 DWT. At present, it operates nine berths. Adani Ports said the master plan for Gangavaram envisages as many as 31 berths with capacity to handle 250 million tonnes. The port handles a diverse mix of dry and bulk commodities including coal, iron ore, fertilisers, limestone, bauxite, sugar, alumina and steel. In the last financial year, GPL had a cargo volume of 34.5 million tonnes and it generated a revenue of Rs 1,082 crore, and a profit after tax of Rs 516 crore. The company is also debt-free with a cash balance of over Rs 500 crore. Of the rest, the current promoters hold 58.1 per cent, while the Andhra Pradesh government owns 10.4 per cent. The Adanis are acquiring the Warburg Pincus stake of around 16.3 crore shares at Rs 120 per share. “The acquisition of GPL is part of our continued strategy to build out a port and logistics network that is unmatched in its ability to serve customers across the nation. The location of GPL in the north of Andhra Pradesh is a strategic complement to our recent acquisition of the port of Krishnapatnam that serves the south of AP,” according to Karan Adani, CEO and whole-time director of APSEZ. “We believe that GPL holds great potential to complement its bulk cargo terminals with new cargo categories that we intend to develop.” Rail deal APSEZ said Brahmi Tracks Management Services Pvt Ltd will be merged with itself in a share-swap deal. Brahmi is involved in the laying up of railway tracks. Similarly, Adani Tracks Management Services Pvt Ltd (Adani Tracks), its wholly owned subsidiary, will be merged with a group firm Sarguja Rail Corridor Pvt Ltd in a share-swap deal. The company added that the objective behind this exercise is to consolidate the rail assets under one entity which will work to develop existing and new railway lines across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
04-03-2021||Business||Jio and Airtel likely to delay tariff hikes: Analysts||Reliance Jio may have cornered 75 per cent of all the spectrum sold in the low-key auction this week but Bharti Airtel still remains the market leader with a spectrum share of 29.5 per cent against Jio’s 25 per cent. Airtel has focused its attention on the B circles — Kerala, Punjab, Haryana, UP West and East, Rajasthan, MP and Bengal. Airtel is looking to beef up its market share of 28 per cent in the B-circles where it trails Jio. Airtel said in a statement that it acquired 355.45Mhz spectrum across sub-Ghz, mid band and 2300MHz bands, giving it “most formidable” spectrum holding in the country. All of the spectrum will enable Airtel to deliver 5G services in the future, it added. A Goldman Sachs report said Jio and Airtel would grow at the cost of Vodafone Idea Limited. Other brokerages — Jefferies and Emkay — said the bids indicate the two telecom players were looking to consolidate their base and, therefore, likely to delay tariff hikes which they believe is critical to sustain profitability. Jio may prioritise selling excess capacity created by its spectrum purchase while Bharti’s approach has been to acquire spectrum in its weaker markets — moves that “do not bode well for the tariff environment”. Bharti is clearly looking to focus on market share gains, the report added. Sweta Patodia, analyst, corporate finance group, Moody’s Investors Service, said, “Indian telcos’ spectrum acquisition can be accommodated in their current ratings, particularly amid the stabilising competitive environment. Some have recently raised funds while others have large cash holdings to support the acquisitions. The spectrum renewals will help incumbents protect their market positions while additional bandwidth purchases will drive improved network coverage.” Analysts at Axis Capital said that the cash outgo will be keenly watched given the high debt level of the incumbents and continued delay in tariff hike. “This could lead to funding gap concern for Vodafone Idea given continued delay in raising funds, high debt level, and renewed pricing aggression in some segments.” Nitesh Jain, director, Crisil Ratings, said the purchase of spectrum will further stretch the gearing of the telecom sector. Average debt to earnings before interest, depreciation and taxation and amortisation (Ebidta) will increase to 5.4 times from the previous estimate of 4.4 times. Telcos bid for 37 per cent of the 2,309 MHz spectrum put on sale by the government. The 2,300 MHz band was the most preferred among bidders. Despite a sharp 43% reduction in the reserve price for 700 MHz band (considered to be the most efficient spectrum band) compared with the previous auction, reserve prices were high overall, which led to the spectrum being unsold across circles for the second straight auction. While the overall premium (over reserve price) has come down to below 5 per cent, for the 900 MHz band, it was much higher at 30 per cent as the reserve prices were reduced by 65 per cent from the previous auction. He said the purchase of spectrum will further stretch the gearing of the telecom sector. Average debt to Ebitda ratio would increase to 5.4 times as on March 31, 2021, from CRISIL’s previous estimate of 4.4 times. “A higher leverage may, therefore, catalyse tariff hikes. It could necessitate a 25-30% increase in tariffs for a sustainable return on capital employed (RoCE) of 8-10% and for the debt to Ebitda ratio to correct to 3.5-4 times by the end of next fiscal,” Jain added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
04-03-2021||Business||Sensex surges nearly 1,148 points to close above 51,000-level||The BSE Sensex on Wednesday catapulted by nearly 1148 points to end once again above the 51000-level, fuelled by energy and finance stocks as investors remained confident about the recovery of the economy. The rally came on expectations that the forthcoming US stimulus will have a favourable effect on global economic growth. Back home, there was good news from the services sector which in February grew at its fastest pace in the past 12 months following the rise in new orders. Dealing room circles added the good response to the second round of vaccination in the country only strengthened the undertone. Institutions were also active with provisional data showing FPIs purchasing stocks worth Rs 2,089 crore and domestic institutions buying stocks of around Rs 393 crore. The 30-share Sensex began on a strong note and built upon its gains to hit an intra-day high of 51539.89 — a rise of 1243 points.  The Sensex gave off some of these gains to close at 51444.65 up 1147.76 points or 2.28 per cent at 51444.65 — the biggest single-day rise since February 2. Similarly, the NSE Nifty climbed 326.50 points or 2.19 per cent to end at 15245.60. Bajaj Finserv led the the Sensex pack rising 5.18 per cent, followed by Reliance Industries, up 4.52 per cent and Bajaj Finance, up 4.47 per cent. Axis Bank, ICICI Bank and HDFC were the other big gainers of the day, rising up to 3.50 per cent. Elsewhere in Asia, stocks extended their gains on Wednesday despite an overnight retreat on Wall Street. “Stocks advanced in Asia on Wednesday after a wobbly day on Wall Street as investors focused on optimism that more imminent US stimulus will energise the global economic recovery,” according to Deepak Jasani, head of retail research, HDFC Securities, “European stocks extended the week’s gains on Wednesday morning, with cyclical sectors leading the advance as the focus turned away from rising bond yields and toward an economic reopening,’’ Jasani said. Experts warned of volatility as stocks may react to any adverse news on the domestic front. States such as Maharashtra have recently reported a spike in coronavirus cases. Rupee gains Meanwhile, in the inter-bank forex market, the rupee tracked the gains in stock prices and rose 65 paise to end at 72.72 against the dollar. Jateen Trivedi, senior research analyst at LKP Securities said the rupee traded strongly on the back of aggressive fund inflows with vaccination rollouts for the people in the age group of 45-plus giving confidence to investors. “Going ahead 72.75-73.25 range can be witnessed.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
04-03-2021||India||Union Minister announces Sreedharan as Kerala CM candidate, retracts statement||After tweeting 'Metroman' E Sreedharan, who recently joined the BJP, will be its chief ministerial candidate for the Kerala assembly elections on April 6, Union Minister V Muraleedharan clarified on Thursday that the party has not made any such announcement. Muraleedharan, who tweeted in this regard earlier, clarified, saying he wanted to inform that through media reports he learnt that the party has announced Sreedharan as the chief ministerial candidate. But when he cross-checked with Kerala party president K Surendran, he said he has not made any such announcements, Muraleedharan, who is also a former BJP state president, said. In his tweet, Muraleedharan had said.."BJP4Keralam will fight Keralapolls with E Sreedharan Ji as its Chief Ministerial Candidate.We will defeat both CPIMKerala & INCKerala to provide a corruption-free, development-oriented Governance for the people of Kerala." His social media post on Sreedharan's leadership in the Assembly polls came hours after Surendran said he has requested the party's national leadership to announce 'Metroman' as the NDA's chief ministerial candidate. Referring to Muraleedharan's clarification tweets, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor took a dig at the BJP, saying the saffron party was "confused". "Hilarious! BJP4Keralam manages to be confused about who will occupy the top floor of a building that will never be built.There will be no BJP CM in Kerala," Tharoor tweeted. The development comes on a day the 88-year-old technocrat announced his decision to end his 24-year long career with the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) to enter electoral politics. Earlier, Surendran, who is leading the party's Vijay Yatra said, if the NDA "under the leadership of 'Metroman', gets an opportunity to rule the state, "we are confident we will be able to implement development works under Prime Minister Narendra Modi with a ten-fold force in Kerala." Addressing a party meeting in Thiruvalla, Surendran highlighted the achievements of Sreedharan, including the completion of the reconstruction of Palarivattom flyover here in five months, much ahead of the stipulated time. This was the first time the party indicated that Sreedhran will be the NDA's chief ministerial candidate. The party sought to project Sreedharan's leadership in the polls amid the process of determining the candidates for the assembly election. Sreedharan has said his main aim was to help the party come to power in Kerala and that he will be open to chief ministership.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
04-03-2021||India||Press Association urges Centre to inoculate accredited journalists||The Press Association on Thursday urged the Centre to include accredited journalists on a priority basis for Covid-19 vaccination considering that the media played a vital role in fighting the pandemic. "A delegation of office-bearers, executive committee members and members of the Press Association met the Principal Director General of the Press Information Bureau (PIB) and demanded that the government should include the accredited journalists on a priority basis for Covid-19 vaccination," an official statement issued by the Press Association said. It said the government has rightly highlighted the vital role of the media in fighting the pandemic like other corona warriors. "Like health professionals, security persons and many others, a number of journalists have also lost their lives on the line of duty. Like all other essential services, media houses also remained open during the whole calamity," the press body said. It said that the Association has welcomed the "groundbreaking steps" of vaccinating all those who are fighting the Covid-19 pandemic". "The Association took note and highly appreciated that for the first time the government has sanctioned Rs 5 lakh each to the family members of journalists who died of Covid-19 during the pandemic all over the country," it said. During the meeting, the Press Association also urged the PIB to revive the railways concessions to the accredited journalists, which has been discontinued during the pandemic, and said that the journalists travel in trains while on professional duty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
04-03-2021||India||Modi, Shah, Nadda meet to finalise candidates for Bengal, Assam elections||The BJP's central election committee (CEC) met on Thursday to finalise party candidates for the initial phases of assembly polls in Bengal and Assam, two of the four states going to the elections besides the union territory of Puducherry. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and party president J P Shah along with other members of the committee held deliberations at the BJP headquarters here. Party sources said the CEC may clear the names of the candidates for most of the seats in the two states where elections will be held in the first two phases on March 27 and April 1. While the third and last phase of polling in Assam will be held on April 6, Bengal is scheduled to undergo elections in eight phases ending on April 29. One of the high-profile contests in the high-stakes Bengal polls is likely to be a direct fight between Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and her former confidant and now BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram seat. The BJP CEC may meet again on Friday, sources indicated. Polling in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry will take place in a single phase on April 6. The BJP has high stakes in Bengal and Assam. In Bengal, it has mounted an aggressive, all-out campaign, deploying a number of leaders drawn from various states and considered adept in poll campaigning, to end the 10-year-old reign of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. In Assam, where the party came to power for the first time in 2016, the BJP has been pulling out all the stops to retain power, with the Congress joining hands with regional parties to capture its old bastion. Before the CEC meeting, top BJP leaders like Shah and Nadda have held long deliberations with Assam party leaders, including Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal and minister Himanta Biswa Sharma, and those from Bengal, including state party chief Dilip Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
04-03-2021||India||BJP asks EC to stop Rahul Gandhi from campaigning in Tamil Nadu||The Tamil Nadu unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party on Thursday urged the Election Commission to restrain Congress leader Rahul Gandhi from campaigning in Tamil Nadu for the April 6 Assembly election, for allegedly violating the model code of conduct. It also wanted the EC to direct the police to register an FIR against him for "inciting the youth to another freedom struggle." BJP state in-charge, election liaison committee, V Balachandran, alleged that Gandhi's campaign in St.Joseph's Matric Higher Secondary School in Mulagumoodu in Kanyakumari district on March 1 was akin to an election campaign in school premises. In a memorandum submitted to chief electoral officer (CEO) Satyabrata Sahoo on Thursday he said Gandhi's political campaign in the educational institution violated provisions of the model code of conduct for which strict action including "prohibitory orders for his poll campaign in Tamil Nadu is required." Further, the Congress leader committed offences under sections 109 (punishment for abetment) and 124 A (sedition) of the IPC for his remarks that India now needs another freedom struggle, it said. Quoting Rahul Gandhi during his interaction with students, the memorandum said, "the Congress leaders comparison of the current situation with that of pre-Independence during the British rule and inciting the youth for another freedom struggle has been made with the intent to cause hatred, contempt and excite disaffection towards the government established bylaws." While answering a question, Gandhi had replied, "there is lot of anger being spread in the country, a lot of fear, and that is what we have to fight.We have to fight the division, anger, fear and once again make India happy, comfortable, fearless and united," it said. His statement violates section 124 A of the IPC, Balachandran claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
04-03-2021||India||WhatsApp expands voice, video calling to desktop PCs||WhatsApp on Thursday said it has rolled out one-to-one voice and video calls on its desktop app, a move that will now allow users to make calls through their laptops or desktop PCs. The Facebook-owned company said voice and video calls on the platform are end-to-end encrypted, and so WhatsApp can't hear or see them whether the call is made from phones or computers. "We're starting with one-to-one calls on the WhatsApp desktop app so we make sure we can give you a reliable and high-quality experience. We will be expanding this feature to include group voice and video calls in the future," it added. WhatsApp said there has been a significant increase in people calling one another on WhatsApp over the last year and often for long conversations. "Last New Year's Eve, we broke the record for the most calls ever made in a single day with 1.4 billion voice and video calls. With so many people still apart from their loved ones, and adjusting to new ways of working, we want conversations on WhatsApp to feel as close to in-person as possible, regardless of where you are in the world or the tech you're using," WhatsApp said. It noted that to make desktop calling more useful, the company has made sure it works seamlessly for both portrait and landscape orientation appears in a resizable standalone window on computer screens and is set to be always on top so users never lose video chats in a browser tab or stack of open windows. Users would need an active internet connection on their computer and phone. The call won't go through the phone, but it needs to be online to establish the call. Also, users would need to grant WhatsApp permission to access the computer's microphone and camera for the video calls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
04-03-2021||India||Few OTT platforms at times show pornographic content, says SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday said that few over-the-top (OTT) platforms show some kind of pornographic content at times and there should be a mechanism to screen such programmes. A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to place before it the recent guidelines of the government to regulate social media platforms on Friday, when it would hear the plea of Amazon Prime Video's India head Aparna Purohit challenging the Allahabad High Court order rejecting her anticipatory bail in connection with FIRs lodged against her over web series 'Tandav'. A balance has to be struck as some OTT platforms are also showing pornographic materials on their platforms, the bench, also comprising Justice R S Reddy, said. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Purohit, termed the case against her as shocking saying this woman is an employee of Amazon and she is neither a producer nor an actor but still she has been made an accused in around 10 cases relating to the web series across the country. Tandav, a nine-episode political thriller starring Bollywood A-listers Saif Ali Khan, Dimple Kapadia and Mohd Zeeshan Ayyub, started streaming recently. Purohit has been accused of inappropriate depiction of Uttar Pradesh police personnel, Hindu deities and an adverse portrayal of a character playing the prime minister in the web series. Earlier, the apex court, on January 27, had declined to grant interim protection from any coercive action to Ali Abbas Zafar, Director of the web series, Purohit, producer Himanshu Mehra, the show's writer Gaurav Solanki and actor Mohammed Zeeshan Ayyub. It had said that they may seek bail from courts concerned in the FIRs lodged in connection with the web series. Now, Purohit has appealed to the top court against the Allahabad High Court's February 25 order declining anticipatory bail to her. A single judge bench of the High Court had said that Purohit had not been vigilant and has acted irresponsibly making her open to criminal prosecution in permitting streaming of a movie which is against the fundamental rights of the majority of citizens of this country and therefore, her fundamental right of life and liberty cannot be protected by grant of anticipatory bail to her in the exercise of discretionary powers of this court. While rejecting the plea, the high court had said that the applicant was earlier granted interim protection from arrest by another bench in a similar case but she was not cooperating with the investigation. The high court had observed, "Western filmmakers have refrained from ridiculing Lord Jesus or the Prophet but Hindi filmmakers have done this repeatedly and are still doing this most unabashedly with Hindu gods and goddesses." "This tendency on the part of the Hindi film industry is growing and if not curbed in time, it may have disastrous consequences for the Indian social, religious and communal order, the high court had observed. On January 19, 2021, an FIR was lodged on the complaint of one Balbir Azad of Raunija village under Rabupura police station of Greater Noida. In the complaint, Azad alleged that the show depicted Uttar Pradesh and its police in a poor light. The complaint further alleged that the web series had deliberately denigrated Hindu gods and goddesses. Several other FIRs have also been lodged in states like Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Bihar and Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
04-03-2021||India||HC asks Bharat Biotech, SII to disclose vaccine manufacturing capacity||The Delhi High Court Thursday directed Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech to disclose their capacities to manufacture Covaxin, Covishield vaccines. The high court also asked the Centre to explain in affidavit the rationale behind keeping strict control over class of persons who can be vaccinated against Covid-19 currently as under the present system those above the age of 60 years or between 45 to 60 years with comorbidities can receive vaccination. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said the two institutes-- Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech -- have more capacity to provide the vaccines but it seems that they are not exploiting it fully. "We are not utilising it fully. We are either donating it to foreign countries or selling it to foreign countries and are not vaccinating our own people. So there has to be that sense of responsibility and urgency," the bench said. It also asked the Delhi government to carry out inspection of medical facilities available in court complexes here and to report if Covid-19 vaccination centres could be set up there. The high court was hearing a PIL initiated by it to examine the demand of the Bar Council of Delhi to declare all people associated with the judicial functioning, including judges, court staff and lawyers as frontline workers so that they could receive Covid-19 vaccination on priority and without limitations of their age or physical condition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
04-03-2021||India||Use car insurance add-ons effectively for enhanced coverage||You always dreamt of buying that shiny, brand new car for yourself! Finally, it’s yours and you want to take it for a drive. Don’t forget the car insurance! It’s the most important thing that needs to be bought after you have bought your dream machine. According to official statistics, around five lakh road accidents get reported every year in India[1]. Having a car insurance policy protects you, at least financially, if you find yourself at the receiving end of this statistic. Moreover, a car insurance policy also protects you from a major financial setback in case of theft of your car, which is a major concern in India with around 2.5 lakh cases of vehicle thefts reported every year. Sadly, only around 25 per cent of those vehicles are usually recovered[2]. For the rest 75 per cent, having an insurance policy is the only way to recover the lost asset, or the costs for it. Despite this, and the added fact that having insurance is mandatory in India, over 60 per cent of vehicles in the country are uninsured[3]. Do not make this mistake and ensure that you have a valid insurance policy for your vehicle not only when you take it out on the road, but also when it is parked safely in your house. But, is just having a car insurance enough to protect your car? Let’s take a look at the example below to understand this further. Don’t be under-insured Arnab Dutta lives in Kolkata and works in a private sector company as a software engineer. Last year he bought his new car and during the monsoons, his car’s engine got damaged due to water logging. Unfortunately, his car insurance did not cover any damages which happens to the car due to water ingression. He had to bear a huge cost to repair the engine. Not only in Kolkata, there are such multiple cases across India where the buyer do not get proper cover even though their car is insured. And when they needed it most, they found their insurance policy falling short. This is a typical example of having insurance, but at the same time being under-insured. This is where add-on features, also referred to as riders, come to your rescue. These riders can be added to your policy during the next car insurance renewal. Keeping Arnab's example in mind, it is clear that these days just getting a basic car insurance in India might not be not enough, you also need to get add-on covers for a comprehensive protection of the car. Here are some add-on covers that might be useful for you: Zero depreciation cover: Probably the most commonly recommended add-on, this cover entitles you to claim the full cost of replacing car parts damaged in accidents without having to pay from your pocket. As per standard motor insurance policies only the depreciated value of car parts is reimbursable and not the replacement value. Typically, insurance companies deduct a value from your claim before making the payout as they factor in standard depreciation, which is the loss in the value of car parts with time. Engine protector: As mentioned in the example above, an engine is the most important part of a vehicle. Usually, damages to the engine are not covered under a regular comprehensive car insurance policy in conditions when there is water ingress in the engine. Your vehicle’s engine will be insured against damages due to flooding, consequential losses etc. with the engine protector add-on. 24x7 Roadside Assistance: This is a very useful add-on that provides certain round-the-clock services such as refueling, towing, change of flat tyre, battery related technical problems, arranging for a mechanic's services and so on, in case of a car breakdown. In a situation like that, the company will send help wherever you are. Also, you will be eligible for taxi service, assistance in arrangement of emergency accommodation and other utility benefits if you are stranded in a remote destination. NCB Protection: You earn a No Claim Bonus (NCB) when you don’t make any car insurance claim in an entire policy year. However, as soon as you make a claim, the no-claim-bonus that you have accumulated, which can be up to 50 per cent of the annual premium, gets rolled back. This can happen even if the damage to your vehicle is due to no fault of your own, like if someone hit your parked car. However, with this add-on-cover, you can make one or two claims during the policy year without compromising your accumulated NCB. This claim can be made for loss such as windshield glass repair or replacement, accessories or total vehicle theft and also for the total loss of the vehicle. The NCB Protection Cover will take care of your first two claims. But, this cover is usually not available for vehicles that are older than three years. Key and lock replacement cover: If you lose your car keys, the regular insurance policy does not cover the loss. However, with this add-on, the insurance policy will cover the replacement costs of the lock and key. However, this is usually available only once in the policy period. Return to Invoice Value: While normally, the liability of the insurer is capped at the Insured Declared Value (IDV) of the vehicle which is determined basis various factors and is almost always lower than the price you paid for the car, this add-on cover makes the insurance company take the on-road price of the car as its IDV. This means that you will get a claim amount equal to the on-road price of the car in case of total loss or theft of the car. Consumables expense cover: You can buy this add on in case you want to seek compensation for money spent on nuts and bolts, screen washers, engine oil, bearings and so on, in case your car meets with an accident. The insurer will pay you for the value of such consumables, which are otherwise excluded from the claim amount under standard motor insurance. Daily Cash Allowance Benefit: With this add-on, the policyholder gets a daily cash benefit when his/her car is out for repairs for more than a day. The cover is also applicable in case of theft or loss of the car and the allowance will be offered until the date of recovery. Registration Certificate (RC) Cover: Under this add-on, the insurance company will reimburse the cost of procuring a new RC of the insured’s car in case the original one is lost/damaged. Personal Belongings Cover: With this add-on, the insurance company pays a certain amount to the policyholder in case of loss of his/her personal belongings kept in their car. The above mentioned add-ons and covers will differ as per every insurance company. Of course, you might not need all the add-ons mentioned above. You will need to pick and choose the ones that suit you the most. For instance, there is no point in getting the engine protection cover if you live in an area that receives scant rainfall. However, don’t neglect the add-ons just because they might make your insurance policy a little expensive. As Arnab in the example above learned, being under-insured is as good as not being insured. Evaluate your premiums with the car insurance calculator and choose the right coverage while meeting your budget. If you are planning to buy your dream car or already have bought one, don’t forget to buy a car insurance policy that gives you 24x7 assistance, easy claim process and option to avail add-on covers. Insurers like Bajaj Allianz General Insurance tick all the right boxes, and with their digital onboarding process, getting a complete cover for your car has never been easier. Not only that, with Bajaj Allianz, you can remain worry-free as this leading insurance company has advanced claims servicing process and fast settlement record with their “Motor On the Spot” feature offering claim settlement in 20 minutes (terms and conditions apply). So what are you waiting for? Get Bajaj Allianz Car Insurance Policy today! Insurance is the subject matter of solicitation. For more details on benefits, exclusions, limitations, terms and conditions, please read sales brochure/policy wording carefully before concluding a sale. Source: [1] https://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/15-lakh-people-die-in-five-lakh-accidents-every-year-nitin-gadkari/article30548240.ece [2]  https://ncrb.gov.in/sites/default/files/CII%202019%20Volume%203.pdf [3]  https://sites.ndtv.com/roadsafety/60-of-vehicles-in-india-are-not-insured-and-most-of-these-are-two-wheelers-3027/#:~:text=According%20to%20a%20General%20Insurance,less%20than%20half%E2%80%94were%20insured This is a sponsored article and curated by ABP Digital Brand Studio. The Telegraph India editorial team played no role in creating this content.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
04-03-2021||India||SC directs private hospitals to prioritise treatment of elderly amid pandemic||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed that elderly people be given priority in admission and treatment at private hospitals besides at government medical institutions amid the Covid-19 pandemic. A bench of justices Ashok Bhushan and RS Reddy modified its earlier order of August 4, 2020, by which it had directed only government hospitals to give priority in admission and treatment of elderly people looking at their vulnerability to coronavirus. The bench took note of submission of senior advocate Ashwani Kumar, petitioner in-person that except Odisha and Punjab no other state has given details about the steps taken in pursuance of the earlier directions issued by the top court on his plea. The top court granted three weeks' time to all the states to respond to the fresh suggestions made by Kumar to provide relief to the elderly people. During the hearing, Kumar said the states need to issue fresh Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) in pursuance to the directions issued by the court. He said the court may issue directions to the health and social welfare departments of all states in this regard. The order was passed on the plea filed by former Union minister and senior advocate Kumar, who has sought directions with regard to elderly people saying they need more care and protection amid the pandemic. The top court had last year directed that all eligible old age persons should be regularly paid pension and states should provide them necessary medicines, masks, sanitisers and other essential goods in wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The apex court had said that looking at their vulnerability to coronavirus, elderly people should be given priority in admission in government hospital and in the event of any complaint made by them, the hospital administration shall take immediate steps to remedy their grievances.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
04-03-2021||India||Taj Mahal vacated after hoax bomb call||The Taj Mahal complex in Agra was vacated on Thursday morning following a hoax bomb call, officials said. They said an unidentified person called the 112 emergency response number of the Uttar Pradesh police at around 9 am and claimed that a bomb was kept inside the monument that is conserved by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and protected by armed personnel of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF). The Uttar Pradesh police immediately informed the CISF personnel, who asked the visitors to vacate the premises of the iconic 17th-century monument and launched anti-sabotage checks around 9:15 am. "Nothing suspicious has been found and the checks are almost done," a senior CISF officer said in Delhi. The hoax call has been traced to Firozabad in Uttar Pradesh, another officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
04-03-2021||India||Arvind Kejriwal administered Covid vaccine at govt hospital||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, who along with his parents took their first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on Thursday, appealed to all eligible people to come forward and get vaccinated, asserting that there's "nothing to fear". The vaccine was first administered to Kejriwal's parents, Govind Ram Kejriwal and Gita Devi, and then to the chief minister at the government-run Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan hospital here. They all were given the Covishield vaccine. "I and my parents got our first dose of COVID-19 vaccine today. We had no problems and are perfectly healthy. There is nothing to fear. Doubts in people's mind (about the vaccine) no longer exist. I appeal to everyone eligible for the vaccine to come and get themselves vaccinated," Kejriwal told reporters after getting the jab. During the second-phase of the inoculation drive that started on March 1, people aged 60 years and above and those in the 45-59 age group with specific comorbidities are being administered the vaccine at 192 hospitals across Delhi. The 52-year-old chief minister, who has a history of diabetes, said the hospital has made adequate arrangements for the vaccination drive. The government will increase the number of vaccination centres if needed, he added. "We are in constant touch with the Centre and are working according to the prescribed guidelines. As and when we receive further directions, we will increase the number of vaccination centres. We have enough stock of the vaccines," the chief minister said. Earlier, President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan got themselves inoculated against COVID-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
04-03-2021||India||Fresh Covid cases above 17,000 after a month||The daily new cases of Covid-19 in India were recorded above 17,000 after a little over a month taking the total tally of cases to 1,11,56,923, while the recoveries surged to 1,08,26,075, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. A total of 17,407 infections were reported in a day. The death toll increased to 1,57,435 with 89 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. On January 29, 18,855 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours. The Covid-19 active caseload has increased to 1,73,413 which which comprises 1.55 per cent of the total infections, the data stated. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,08,26,075 which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.03 per cent, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.41 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 21,91,78,908 samples have been tested up to March 3 with 7,75,631 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 89 new fatalities include 42 from Maharashtra, 15 from Kerala and 12 from Punjab. A total of 1,57,435 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 52,280 from Maharashtra followed by 12,504 from Tamil Nadu, 12,346 from Karnataka, 10,914 from Delhi, 10,272 from West Bengal, 8,728 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,170 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
04-03-2021||India||Income tax department raids Anurag Kashyap, Taapsee Pannu properties||The income tax department on Wednesday searched the homes and offices of actress Taapsee Pannu and film director Anurag Kashyap, both part of an endangered clan of celebrities who have been vocal against the Narendra Modi government. Sources said the searches were carried out at over 25 locations in Mumbai and Pune. Pannu and Kashyap were questioned by tax officials, the sources said. Some executives of celebrity and talent management company KWAN are also being raided. The premises of the now-defunct Phantom Films, which was co-promoted by Kashyap and producers Vikas Bahl and Madhu Mantena, are also under the scanner. Phantom Films was dissolved in 2018. Kashyap and Pannu, frequent collaborators, have been outspoken critics of the government and have freely expressed their views on various issues, including the farmers’ protest and the new citizenship regime, at a time when most film stars have either chosen to remain silent or toe the government line. “The IT raids were expected as both Kashyap and Pannu have been very vocal against the Modi government’s policies. We were expecting it to happen any time soon because they were refusing to kowtow to the government as most Bollywood stars have,” a former CBI joint director told The Telegraph. “The raids are also a message to them and their ilk — fall in line or else…,” he added. Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik slammed the raids. “The raids were conducted by the IT department against those who take a stand against the government or its policies. Both are outspoken celebrities and the action is an attempt to suppress their voice,” he said. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the umbrella outfit of protesting farmers, condemned the raids. “Despite numerous objectionable attempts by the government, the farmers’ movement in India is gathering strength. Many international and national celebrities and well-known individuals have been lending support to the farmers’ cause. Instead of fulfilling the farmers’ legitimate demands, the government is seeking ways to harass and attack farmers and their supporters,” the SKM said in a statement. “The IT raids unleashed on Taapsee Pannu and others are part of this desperate attempt by the government. The SKM condemns this….” Actress Swara Bhasker and director Anubhav Sinha expressed solidarity with Pannu and Kashyap. Bhasker tweeted: “Appreciation tweet for @taapsee who is an amazing girl with courage and conviction that is rare to see now days.. Stand strong warrior! “Appreciation tweet for @anuragkashyap72 who has been a cinematic trailblazer, a teacher and mentor of talent and a man with rare candour and a brave heart! More power to you Anurag.” Sinha tweeted: “Kashyap and Taapsee I love you both. Just.” The Centre denied any overreach. “The income tax department probes someone based on whatever information they get. The issue goes to court later,” Union minister Prakash Javadekar told reporters in Delhi. Recently, Pannu had appeared to criticise the show of solidarity by celebrities, including actors like Akshay Kumar and Ajay Devgn and filmmaker Karan Johar, with the government in response to pop star Rihanna’s post drawing attention to the farmers’ protest. Pannu had tweeted on February 4: “If one tweet rattles your unity, one joke rattles your faith or one show rattles your religious belief then it’s you who has to work on strengthening your value system, not become ‘propaganda teacher’ for others.” A day before, she had reposted a tweet from last year in Hindi: “Don’t scare anyone so much that the fear is gone. And one should be a little wary of a person who does not fear.” Both Kashyap and Pannu are targets of vile trolls, mostly supporters of the BJP, on social media. Kashyap had condemned the violence against anti-citizenship act protesters. He had also expressed support for actress Rhea Chakraborty after she was hounded and jailed in connection with the death of Sushant Singh Rajput. Kashyap had slammed Bollywood actors for not speaking up against her vilification. A perception is growing that the Centre wants to control Bollywood. “The government has already done that with the media and now Bollywood is the target as it is the last independent bastion of a secular and liberal medium of mass entertainment,” said an analyst of the entertainment industry. He said the trend started with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “grin-and-share-it” moment with Bollywood actors in January 2019 at an event just weeks ahead of his re-election campaign. Bollywood’s A-listers had flown from Mumbai to Delhi to meet Modi and discuss how they could work towards “nation-building” and then shared pictures on social media along with effusive praise for the politician. Months after being re-elected, Modi had invited top actors and filmmakers to his residence in October 2019 to discuss initiatives to mark the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. Among those present were Shah Rukh Khan, Aamir Khan, Kangana Ranaut, Sonam Kapoor, directors Rajkumar Hirani, Rajkumar Santoshi and producers Ekta Kapoor and Boney Kapoor. Last month Akshay, Devgn, Johar and Lata Mangeshkar were among those who tweeted with hashtags coined by the foreign ministry, urging people to stand united and not fall for propaganda after singer Rihanna and climate activist Greta Thunberg tweeted about the farmers’ protest. Many have pointed out how Amitabh Bachchan and Akshay used to comment on burning issues during the Manmohan Singh government, including fuel price hikes, but had been silent when prices touched an unprecedented Rs 100 in some parts of the country recently. Among the celebrities who have spoken strongly against attempts to redefine India are Bhasker, Mohammed Zeeshan Ayyub, Farhan Akhtar, Jaaved Jafferi, Sinha, Kashyap, Pannu, Prakash Raj and Richa Chadha. Ranaut, a self-confessed Modi supporter, was last September accorded Y-category security by the Centre after a tussle with the Maharashtra government. A Twitter user wrote on Wednesday: “Y security cover to the actress who accused farmers of being terrorists. And IT raids against the actress who spoke in favour of farmers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
04-03-2021||India||Covaxin shows 81% efficacy: Bharat Biotech||India’s homegrown Covid-19 vaccine has shown close to 81 per cent efficacy in protecting people from the infection, the vaccine’s developers announced on Wednesday, releasing the much-awaited interim results of a nationwide clinical trial. The results mark the first efficacy data on Covaxin, the vaccine developed jointly by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research. The vaccine had run into controversy after India’s drug regulators approved it in January without efficacy studies. The first interim analysis has found 43 Covid-19 cases among the 25,800 participants of Covaxin’s clinical trial at multiple sites across India, 36 cases among those who received placebo and seven cases among those who received the vaccine. The skewed split in cases implies that those who had received the vaccine had a significantly lower chance of becoming infected than those who had received the placebo and translates into a vaccine efficacy of 80.6 per cent. “We now have data demonstrating high clinical efficacy against Covid-19 infection,” Krishna Ella, a scientist-turned-entrepreneur and head of Bharat Biotech, said in a statement released to the media. “An independent data safety monitoring board announced the interim results at 3pm today.” For comparison, India’s drug regulatory authority had, relying on clinical trials outside India, cited an overall vaccine efficacy of 70 per cent for Covishield, the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, produced in the country by the Serum Institute of India. India is currently using both Covaxin and Covishield in its vaccination drive to immunise about 10 million healthcare workers, 20 million frontline workers and roughly 270 million people from the general population at high risk of severe disease. The Centre is sending both the vaccines to states and state authorities are responsible for distributing them to government and private hospitals. Eligible people could choose a vaccine they want by opting for hospitals that have received the vaccine of their choice. Many experts had questioned the regulatory decision to approve Covaxin only on the basis of its capacity to generate an immune response without efficacy data. Some had speculated whether India fast-tracked Covaxin’s approval to show a homegrown vaccine alongside Covishield. “It is good to see this interim analysis data — these are early but very good results,” said Gagandeep Kang, professor of microbiology and vaccine science specialist at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, who was among those who had criticised the regulatory approval without any clinical efficacy. Covaxin has been crafted from an inactivated (killed) coronavirus isolated from a patient by the ICMR’s National Institute of Virology, Pune, in March last year and developed into a vaccine by Bharat Biotech in its Hyderabad research facility. “This is a testament to India’s emergence as a vaccine superpower,” said Balram Bhargava, the ICMR’s director-general. The Indian government has already sent Covaxin doses to Myanmar and Sri Lanka, among other countries, and Bharat Biotech is preparing to supply the vaccine to other countries too. Scientists tracking Covid-19 vaccine development said Covaxin’s interim results were not surprising, given the strong immune responses it had shown in rhesus monkeys and humans and the efficacy of a similar inactivated Chinese vaccine. The large number of participants in the clinical trial bolsters confidence in the results, said Shahid Jameel, a senior virologist and director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University in Sonipat, Haryana. “Further analysis at two other points — after 87 cases and 130 cases — will further refine the efficacy data to higher confidence levels,” Jameel said. The interim results released did not specify how many among the 43 cases had mild, moderate or severe Covid-19. One of the goals of Covid-19 vaccine trials is to assess the capacity of a vaccine to prevent severe disease. Covishield evoked a strong immune response 28 days after the first dose, researchers in Delhi have reported in a study that they say represents the first public data from India on the immune responses to the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine. The researchers at the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi, collaborating with doctors at Max Hospitals have also found that in people previously infected by Covid-19, the first dose served as a booster, raising their antibody levels against the virus. The IGIB-Max team examined antibody responses in 135 healthcare workers who have received Covishield since the start of the vaccination campaign on January 16. They found that the antibody levels had spiked within a week in 44 vaccine recipients who already had antibodies against the virus likely because of previous exposures. In the other recipients, the antibodies emerged only around day 14 and climbed to significant levels by day 28. “The study highlights the effectiveness of the vaccine in generating antibodies and could be used to formulate an optimum vaccination strategy for the Indian population,” said Shantanu Sengupta, a senior scientist at the IGIB. The Serum Institute of India had last year conducted immunogenicity studies with Covishield in Indian recipients as part of mandatory clinical trials and submitted the trial data to drug regulators. “We have not seen any published immunogenicity data on Covishield in India,” Sengupta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
04-03-2021||India||India dropped from Freedom House’s list of 'free' countries||India has been dropped from a list of “free” countries drawn up by an 80-year-old democracy watchdog mostly funded by the US government. Freedom House has placed India in the “partly free” category in its latest report that carries the observation that the free world had shrunk as a result and that the country was being driven towards “authoritarianism”. Freedom House is a Washington-based non-profit, non-government organisation that has been conducting research and advocacy on democracy, political freedom and human rights since 1941. The report released on Wednesday notes that instead of “serving as a champion of democratic practice and a counterweight to authoritarian influence from countries such as China, (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi and his party are tragically driving India itself toward authoritarianism”. Elsewhere in the report, Freedom House states: “Under Modi, India appears to have abandoned its potential to serve as a global democratic leader, elevating narrow Hindu nationalist interests at the expense of its founding values of inclusion and equal rights for all.” There was no immediate response from the Indian government to the report that comes in the wake of increased concern in several world capitals on the human rights situation in the country. US secretary of state Antony Blinken described the Freedom House report as “sobering” in his first foreign policy speech. “A new report from the independent watchdog group Freedom House is sobering. Authoritarianism and nationalism are on the rise around the world. Governments are becoming less transparent and have lost the trust of the people…,” Blinken said. Explaining the reason for shifting India, Freedom House stated: “India’s status declined from free to partly free due to a multiyear pattern in which the Hindu nationalist government and its allies have presided over rising violence and discriminatory policies affecting the Muslim population and pursued a crackdown on expressions of dissent by the media, academics, civil society groups, and protesters.” Some of the specific reasons for the change in scores on various counts that resulted in India losing its “free” status include the frequent use of the sedition law and other charges to deter free speech, the restrictions on foreign funding of NGOs and the action against Amnesty which resulted in it shutting shop in India, “the unusual appointment of a recently retired chief justice to the upper house of Parliament”, and the “excessively harsh” lockdown that triggered the displacement of millions. According to the report, the Modi government and its state-level allies continued to crack down on critics in 2020, and “their response to Covid-19 included a ham-fisted lockdown that resulted in the dangerous and unplanned displacement of millions of internal migrant workers”. It also took note of the “corona jihad” narrative whereby “the ruling Hindu nationalist movement also encouraged the scapegoating of Muslims, who were disproportionately blamed for the spread of the virus and faced attacks by vigilante mobs”. Given that India is the world’s most populous democracy, the free world has shrunk because of the country’s fall from the upper ranks of free nations, the report noted, adding that it could have a particularly damaging impact on global democratic standards. “Political rights and civil liberties in the country have deteriorated since Narendra Modi became Prime Minister in 2014, with increased pressure on human rights organisations, rising intimidation of academics and journalists, and a spate of bigoted attacks, including lynchings, aimed at Muslims. The decline only accelerated after Modi’s reelection in 2019,” the report said. “Last year, the government intensified its crackdown on protesters opposed to a discriminatory citizenship law and arrested dozens of journalists who aired criticism of the official pandemic response. Judicial independence has also come under strain; in one case, a judge was transferred immediately after reprimanding the police for taking no action during riots in New Delhi that left over 50 people, mostly Muslims, dead,” the report pointed out. It took note of the law curbing inter-faith marriages in Uttar Pradesh. While the chapter on India in the Freedom House report acknowledged that the 2019 Lok Sabha elections were considered generally free and fair, it placed on record questions raised about the impartiality and competence of the Election Commission of India. “The Commission is generally respected and had been thought to function without undue political interference. In 2019, however, its impartiality and competence were called into question. The panel’s decisions concerning the timing and phasing of national elections, and allegations of selective enforcement of the Model Code of Conduct, which regulates politicians’ campaign behaviour and techniques, suggested bias toward the ruling BJP.” The report flagged as a cause of concern “the opaque financing of political parties, notably through electoral bonds that allow donors to obscure their identities”. The report noted that a great deal of corruption cases go unreported and unpunished, and “the authorities have been accused of selective, partisan enforcement”. The delay in setting up the Lokpal and Lokayuktas has been recorded, as also the diluting of the RTI law by the Modi government. The attacks on the media have found mention, and the perception that the Prime Minister’s call to the media to help prevent the spread of “pessimism, negativity, and rumour mongering” was a warning not to criticise officials’ management of the pandemic. “Academic freedom has significantly weakened in recent years, as intimidation of professors, students, and institutions over political and religious issues has increased.... Academics face pressure not to discuss topics deemed sensitive by the BJP government, particularly India’s relations with Pakistan and conditions in Indian Kashmir,” the report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
04-03-2021||India||Uddhav to BJP: Chant can’t make you patriot ||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday told the BJP that chanting “Bharat Mata ki Jai” alone did not prove its love for the country, reminding the party that it has no claim on India’s freedom struggle. Uddhav said his party, the Shiv Sena, was not part of the freedom struggle but neither was the “parent organisation” of the BJP — a reference to the RSS. Both the Sena and the BJP were founded after Independence, but the RSS has existed since 1925. “Therefore, only chanting ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’ does not prove your love for the country. You don’t have the right to chant Bharat Mata Ki Jai if you are not going to give justice to people and if you are forcing farmers to protest on the streets,” Uddhav said, speaking in the Assembly. Farmers are waiting for their income to double as promised, he said, referring to the BJP’s election pledge. “Instead, fuel prices have doubled,” Uddhav said. “Barbed wire fencing, which should have been erected along the border, was erected between farmers and Delhi... China would not have intruded had such arrangement been made there (along the border),” the chief minister said. Iron spikes were fixed on the roads leading to the protest sites and their electricity and water supplies were cut, he pointed out. Asking if the farmers protesting against the three new laws were terrorists, Uddhav said the country was not the BJP’s “private property”. The Sena leader asked the BJP not to lecture his party on Hindutva. “You formed a government with separatists in Kashmir... you shared power with them. Didn’t your Hindutva get corrupted then?” he asked. “How many displaced Kashmiri Pandits got homes? Don’t teach us about Hindutva. You are not qualified to do that,” Uddhav told the BJP. The BJP has been targeting the Shiv Sena chief for “giving up” his Hindutva ideology to share power with the NCP and Congress. Uddhav also took a dig at the renaming of the Motera cricket stadium, which used to be called the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel stadium, after Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Somebody said India will win every match there. Why? Because the name of the stadium has been changed,” he quipped. “You wiped out the name of Vallabhbhai Patel,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
04-03-2021||India||Dissenting with government not sedition: Supreme Court ||The expression of a view which is a dissent from a decision taken by the central government itself cannot be said to be seditious, the Supreme Court ruled on Wednesday. The court dismissed a PIL seeking sedition charges against National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah and stripping of his MP status for allegedly seeking China’s help to restore the full provisions of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta, while dismissing the PIL as being a “publicity interest litigation”,  imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 on the joint petitioners, Rajat Sharma and Neh Srivastava. The court’s assertion comes at a time a clamour has been growing for repealing the British-era sedition law that has been invoked against many dissenters, including climate activist Disha Ravi. “The expression of a view which is a dissent from a decision taken by the Central government itself cannot be said to be seditious. There is nothing in the statement which we find so offensive as to give a cause of action for a court to initiate proceedings,” the bench of Justices Kaul and Gupta said while dismissing the PIL against Abdullah. “Not only that the petitioners have nothing to do with the subject matter and this is clearly a case of publicity litigation interests for the petitioners only to get their names in press. We must discourage such endeavours,” the  bench added. “The writ petition is dismissed with costs of Rs 50,000 to be deposited with the Supreme Court Advocates Welfare Fund within four weeks,” said Justice Kaul, who dictated the order. The petitioners, pleading to be social activists in their petition filed through advocate Shiv Sagar Tiwari, had  claimed that Abdullah had on September 24,  2020, made a “seditious” statement in Kashmir that he will get Article 370 restored with the help of China. It was also submitted that on the same day, Abdullah made a statement that “ye tumhare baap ki sampati nahi hai”, referring to Kashmir, “which is totally anti-national and seditious”. The petitioner submitted that Abduallah had completely failed in abiding by his constitutional duties as provided under Article 51 A (to uphold the Constitution). “Since his statement was seditious, the petitioner urged the court to direct the Union government to strip him of his status as MP. If the action of Mr Farooq Abdullah is allowed and he is allowed to continue as member of Parliament, it would amount to approval of all anti-national activities by anyone,” the petition had claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
04-03-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi glare on government ‘cowardice’ on China ||Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said the Narendra Modi government’s “cowardice” will lead to tragic consequences, predicting that India’s territory in Depsang captured by China will not be recovered. Referring to a report suggesting the build-up of Chinese soldiers across the Line of Actual Control (LAC), Rahul tweeted, “China mobilized its conventional & cyber forces to threaten India. The Government of India buckled. Mark my words, our land in Depsang is gone and DBO (Daulat Beg Oldie) is vulnerable. The Government of India’s cowardice will lead to tragic consequences in the future.” While the government of India maintains that negotiations with China on disengagement is continuing, the Congress leader has been making scathing attacks on the Prime Minister, accusing him of not showing the courage to confront China. The Prime Minister, who initially said nobody had entered Indian territory and no post was occupied by anybody, has avoided speaking on the subject despite ceaseless attacks by the Opposition leader. Rahul also tweeted about the horrific incident in Hathras in Uttar Pradesh where a man was shot dead for complaining against the harassment of his daughter. He said, “The situation is deteriorating in Uttar Pradesh under the BJP day by day. Nobody has escaped the impact of this misrule. This government is a curse on every community.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
04-03-2021||India||Haryana reserves private jobs for residents||The Haryana government has notified a law that provides for 75 per cent reservation in private sector jobs paying less than Rs 50,000 for people from the state, following a trend that experts believe restricts productivity and migration. The Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020, notified in the state gazette on Tuesday said employers shall engage persons from the state in 75 per cent of the posts with gross salary of less than Rs 50,000 a month. Employers can apply to the government for an exemption if adequate numbers of local candidates with the desired skills, qualifications or proficiency are not available. After an inquiry, the designated officer may accept or reject the application or direct the employer to train local candidates, according to the gazette. Local candidates are defined as those either born in Haryana or residents of the state for at least 15 years. Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) director-general Chandrajit Banerjee opposed the law and sought a relook. “At a time when it is important to attract investments at the state level, the Haryana government could have avoided imposing restrictions on industry. Reservation affects productivity and industry competitiveness,” he said in a statement. “We hope the government of Haryana relooks at the legislation. With the Prime Minister’s vision of ‘Ek Bharat shrestha Bharat’ we look forward to an integrated and mobile labour market within the country,” Banerjee added. Deepak Jain, president of the Automotive Component Manufacturers Association of India, said the Indian auto and auto component industry was a global one. “Our production not only caters to the domestic demand, but also to international markets. The Indian component industry today exports more that 25 per cent of its production, with the US and Europe being our leading markets,” he said. “Our industry requires a skilled workforce to produce high quality products that are globally competitive. Hiring in our sector is done on the basis of merit and talent rather than on the domicile of the candidates. “The reason for industry employing candidates from outside the state is the shortage of adequately skilled, locally available manpower. Such a move would not only adversely impact the ‘ease of doing business’ in the state, but also be detrimental to Haryana’s image of an industry-friendly destination,” Jain added. Some expressed concern that it could lead to a competitive quota regime by different states, which would impact the economy at a time it was attempting to come out of the pandemic setback. A large number of MNCs and Indian corporate houses are based in Gurgaon and other NCR cities that are part of Haryana. Analysts said the move might “dissuade new investments, especially by large-scale companies and MNCs. Also, the firms which are already present may put on hold any expansion plans they may have and may opt for other destinations.” However, the quota might not significantly impact those small and micro units that do not use a highly skilled workforce. The analysts also said there was little clarity on what companies that have already recruited their workforce would need to do. “Will they sack those who are already employed?” an analyst asked. The Telegraph sent an email to the director-general, directorate of information and public relations of the Haryana government, for a reaction on the concerns expressed over the quota but received no response. Prof. Amitabh Kundu, a labour economist and Distinguished Fellow at the think tank Research and Information System, said more and more state governments were enacting laws for public and private sector reservation that had the potential to create an anti-migration attitude among locals and stoke inter-state tension. He said the Supreme Court needed to confirm if these violated the spirit of the Constitution. Kundu said Article 16 of the Constitution guarantees the right to equal opportunity to all citizens in appointments to any office under the state. After Andhra Pradesh became a state in 1956, its Assembly had passed the Public Employment (Requirement as to Residence) Act, 1957, to enhance job opportunities for its residents. But in 1969 the Supreme Court held the relevant provision of the Act unconstitutional on the ground that it was designed to safeguard the interest of the people of a region at the cost of others, Kundu said. The Centre and the courts had not spoken on the state laws on reservation or the requirement of proficiency in the local language for employment, he said. But such laws could tantamount to a direct violation of the constitutional provision and the spirit of the Interstate Migration Act, Kundu added. Employment in the private sector has by and large been the prerogative of the employer, he said, although many state governments have encouraged hiring of locals. “While the economic arguments at the macro level are in favour of free movement of labour, the popular sentiment in many states is quite the opposite. This has been explained in terms of their acute shortage of employment opportunities. Interestingly, in states like Punjab, Haryana and Kerala, where there is an acute shortage of unskilled or semi-skilled labour, there has been no demand for restricting in-migration,” Kundu said. Several states have brought such laws, he said. After winning the 2019 elections, the Andhra Pradesh government passed a bill to introduce 75 per cent quota for local youths in private industrial units. It became the first state to introduce such a legal provision for the private sector. The Madhya Pradesh government in 2019 passed two industrial laws providing for 70 per cent reservation for locals in industries under the MP Industrial Resolution Act, 1960. Maharashtra passed a resolution in 2008 providing for 80 per cent reservation for locals in industries that seek state incentives. The resolution mandates that industries that avail themselves of concessions and incentives from the state reserve 50 per cent of jobs for locals in supervisory roles, and 80 per cent in non-supervisory roles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
04-03-2021||India||AAP retains 4, Congress wins 1 in Delhi bypolls||The BJP, which controls the capital’s five municipal bodies, ate humble pie as the results of bypolls to five municipal wards here were declared on Wednesday. Of the five seats in the North and East Delhi municipal corporations, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) won four, and the Congress one. The BJP’s majority in both the corporations, however, remains intact. The party won 27.29 per cent of vote share. In the 2017 municipal polls here, the AAP had won four of these seats, and the BJP had won a single seat. The AAP, which heads the territorial government, had focused on these bypolls like Assembly elections and gained a vote share of 46.1 per cent. Yet, its candidate Ishraq Khan lost Chauhan Banger to the Congress’s Chaudhary Zubair Ahmad, the son of five-time MLA Mateen Ahmad, in the East Delhi Municipal Corporation. The Muslim majority ward is close to the spot where communal riots broke out in February last year that claimed 53 lives. The AAP faced resentment for being a bystander during the clashes and criticism for providing inadequate relief. The AAP was the runner up while the BJP came third with less than 0.5 per cent of the votes here. The Congress, however, lost its deposits in the rest of the wards where it came third and won 21.84 per cent of votes. Delhi Pradesh Congress committee president Chaudhary Anil Kumar said: “When people of Delhi faced untold misery, gloom and uncertainty due to the lockdown, the Congress’ support to the farmers’ agitation demanding repeal of the three black laws had turned the tide in favour of the Congress.” The AAP gained the Shalimar Bagh seat from the BJP in North Delhi Municipal Corporation and retained the rest of its seats. The bypolls were necessitated by the election of four AAP councillors to the Legislative Assembly last year and the death of BJP councillor Renu Jaju in 2019. AAP’s national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said: “The people of Delhi want to change the Municipal Corporations of Delhi (MCD), they want the MCD to run as effectively as the Delhi government… This is a call for how the results are going to be in the MCD elections 2022.” The BJP has held the undivided MCD and its three successors since 2007. Addressing the media on Wednesday, Union minister Prakash Javadekar evaded questions on the results saying, “Those who held the seats already, won the seats.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
04-03-2021||India||‘Communal’ heat on Kerala CPM leader||The acting secretary of the Kerala CPM has come under fire for alleged “Islamophobic” statements, with academics pointing to the incongruity of such diatribes from a Left leader although they were common in the Sangh ecosystem. In a letter addressed to CPM secretary Sitaram Yechury, a group of nine academics, lawyers, writers and retired bureaucrats have expressed concern at the recent outbursts of A. Vijayaraghavan, the party’s state secretary in-charge, ahead of the Assembly elections. They expressed concern at Vijayaraghavan engaging in “Islamophobic statements vitiating the social environment of Kerala”, while pursuing his unrelenting attacks on the Indian Union Muslim League  and the Jamaat-e-Islami. “He takes the pretext of criticising the Muslim League and the Jamaat-e-Islami to unburden himself of hatred for Muslims without reservations. This is not unfamiliar in India’s current political terrain as we hear these on a daily basis from the Sangh parivar, but from CPIM this has been shocking,” argued the complainants that include retired additional development commissioner and director of the State Institute of Rural Development, P.M. Pareethu Bava Khan. “In his latest tirade he accuses Muslims of being more communal than the majority communalism,” the letter stated, referring to Vijayaraghavan’s attack on the IUML. Vijayaraghavan had last month slammed the Congress for strengthening minority communalism by encouraging the Jamaat-e-Islami — widely seen as a Right-wing organisation — which would in turn benefit the BJP. “A whole community is vilified. And by trivialising the communalism of the Sangh parivar, Vijayaraghavan has betrayed the trust the secular, democratic forces of the country have invested in the CPM as a partner in the struggle for a saner future…,” stated the letter sent to Yechury on Tuesday. Khan told The Telegraph that copies of the letter would be sent to the CPM state secretariat in Thiruvananthapuram and Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. “The name calling of people that hold a different view point than that of the ruling political formation that has now become a timepass of theirs — with communists themselves being one of the targets — has been liberally practiced by Vijayaraghavan. He was calling people ‘terrorists’ who have been democratically opposing environmentally questionable projects and projects that require displacements because there were visible faces of Muslims,” the letter said. Vijayaraghavan could not be reached for comments as he was busy with meetings related to the April 6 elections. Yechury has not publicly commented on the allegations. The letter didn’t spare others in the CPM who had made equally communal statements in the past and named Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, the state secretary who is on leave due to personal issues. The letter referred to his comment about Muslim leaders in the Congress-led United Democratic Front. “He (Vijayaraghavan) has not been alone in speaking so, unfortunately. Kodiyeri Balakrishnan has said that the UDF is led by x, y and z (three Muslim names), in a way to create worry among the Hindus. This was an attempt to score over the UDF that has vowed to enact a law for protecting the traditions at Sabarimala, to win over conservative Hindus, as if Islamophobia pays,” the letter stated. The allegation was apparently an allusion to Balakrishnan’s statement in October 2020 accusing the Congress of surrendering its leadership to the Congress’s M.M. Hassan, IUML leader P.K. Kunhalikutty and Jamaat-e-Islami leader M.I. Abdul Aziz. “Earlier the UDF was led by the Kunhalikutty-K.M. Mani-Oommen Chandy triumvirate. But it’s now led by Hassan, Kunhalikutty and Aziz,” Balakrishnan had said. The letter recalled how then chief minister and CPM veteran V.S. Achuthanandan had in 2010 accused the Popular Front of India, another Muslim Right-wing group, of using “money and marriages to make Kerala a Muslim-majority state”. “Our concern is about the possible destruction of the social fabric of Kerala, the land that lives the values of our ancient Dravidian King Mahabali. The new social engineering the CPM is doing in Kerala is, strangely, analogous to the reactionary politics of the vimochana samaram of the past where the orthodoxies of various religions caused immense social disruption in their effort to overthrow a democratically elected Left government,” the letter said. While Mahabali is a mythical Dravidian king who ruled Kerala and was sent to the netherworld by Vamana, an avatar of Lord Vishnu, “vimochana samaram” was an anti-communist backlash that played out against the party’s first elected government in Kerala during 1958-59.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
04-03-2021||India||Many feel fundamental science is a criminal luxury: Bikash Sinha||Science has taken the backseat in present-day India. A scientific temper and attitude is sorely missing in today’s India devoted to religiosity. But this was not so in the past. Eminent scientist, Prof. Bikash Sinha, traces this decline in a land where ritual and religion are growing more popular everyday, in this dialogue with the author. Q: The last budget ignored science totally. In fact, there has been a steady decline of interest and research in the sphere of pure science after the BJP came to power. Can you please detail this decline? Sinha: The fact that the last budget did not mention anything about science clearly indicates the very low priority this government attaches to science. I am not an economist, but it seems that the budget is “soft” in nature. That is, it doesn’t excite anyone nor does it make one overly pessimistic. Nothing can really excel in this monotonous status quo ambience. Q: But this was not so in the past. Think of the contribution of Nehru and… Sinha: Nehru needs to be regarded as the true commander of modern Indian science. India’s economic condition was poor during his days, we had a very meagre foreign exchange reserve. But still, Nehru went ahead almost heroically with major programmes in the areas of atomic energy, the Council of Science and Industrial Research (CSIR). He even helped to build grand research institutions of fundamental science with his trusted friend Homi Bhabha — for example, the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research. No one can dream even at present to set up such an institution. The indefatigable Bhabha also built the Atomic Energy Research establishment, whose design and planning were greatly influenced by the Versailles palace in France. Nehru and Bhabha together thought “big” and they created the unthinkable out of the thinkable, which brought India to the international stage. Even now, after so many years, these institutions are shining without any sign of obvious decay. The committed scientists of those days also set up a training school to groom possible leaders in the mould of Bhabha and (Vikram) Sarabhai. Brilliant youngsters were inspired to think originally, think boldly and out of the box. At present, our contemporary so-called leaders are just pushing the rusty old bandwagon. The upward swing was also palpable during the days of Indira Gandhi. If Nehru could be called the father of India’s atomic energy, Indira Gandhi could be acclaimed as the mother of India’s space programme. What a success in such a short timespan! Nehru and Indira were the architects of independent India’s science renaissance. From a superstitious India arose a new India determined by the scientific, rational temper. After this glorious phase we have experienced a steady decline. The direction of research changed radically and the men in power started invoking tirelessly what India had done in the ancient past. Prime Minister Morarji Desai even stressed that the waters of the Ganga were equivalent to hard water or as he called “heavy” water. And, almost at the same time, a large number of people who were god-fearing, mandir-going and obsessed with puja drove India backwards once again. Several changes of the government, in quick succession, didn’t allow any new idea to flourish. Rajiv Gandhi, a very modern and young Prime Minister, introduced radical measures. Most important, he managed to steer the outlook towards a modern and scientific dispensation from a moth-eaten Pauranic one. He guided the country to accept the computer as an irreplaceable device. He also recognised the significance of the new discoveries, for example, high temperature super conductivity and nano material. He was singularly responsible for bringing science to practical application and thereby modern technology was given the much-awaited push and drive. During Manmohan Singh’s time — for the first time in independent India — investment in science and technology went up from a meagre 1 per cent of the GDP to 2 per cent, an increase by 100 per cent. In the US this figure is more than 10 per cent and in South Korea more than 12 per cent, to cite just two examples. These comparable figures, more than anything else, attest to India’s structural indifference. Q: Prime Minister Narendra Modi is spending words and words on “atmanirbharta” or self-reliance. But can we achieve this cherished self-reliance without any notable progress in the area of fundamental science? We have to accept that rockets are just not enough. Sinha: I really don’t understand this concept of “atmanirbharta”. In the world that we inhabit, each country is “bootstrapped” with other countries, with some very strongly and with others not so strongly. It is also clear that our nirbharta has decreased substantially. We have left behind the Ambassador and are eyeing Mercedez assembled in Pune. But this is simply not enough. “Atmanirbharta” should not be a blind alley because we have to be extremely alert about new developments in fundamental science taking place in other countries so that we do not miss out on the fantastic spinoffs. We have already missed out on the great electronic revolution; even now we are not in a position to own 100 per cent indigenous computers and, I suspect, the same story is being repeated in the case of nano technology, high temperature superconductors and other horizons of frontier science. Is the present government aware of this deficiency and downslide? Grabbing land is not modern science, rockets will serve our purpose only in one area, but what about other areas which have remained distant from us? An over-emphasis on the debatable atmanirbharta could keep us away from the new frontiers. In other words, harping on “atmanirbharta” could increase the distance between crucial frontiers of science and our indigenous position. To give another example, the discovery of Higgs Boson has opened up a new world of physics, its technological fallout has enriched central Europe’s economy beyond any dream. This crucial point has never been understood in “Atmanirbhar” Bharat. Here we encounter almost a Brahminical, out-of-the-world respect for science and it spokesmen cry aloud, “Don’t destroy the purity of science.” I suspect that this is the disastrous influence of Vedantic philosophy. To be candid, India is hesitant, almost embarrassed to talk about fundamental science; many feel it is a criminal luxury. This is a terribly short-sighted and reactionary attitude. We have to realise in this context that technology without the driving force of fundamental science will stagnate in no time and turn irrelevant and redundant. If this happens, we have to revert back to the massive import of technology, and with this inescapable import, atmanirbharta will go down the drain. When will India wake up and cut through this vicious cycle? Q: What disturbs us most is that we do not have anyone to guide and lead, like Homi Bhaba or Vikram Sarabhai? Sinha: Decidedly, there is an acute shortage of leadership. Nowadays scientists spend more than half of their time on bureaucratic work. This should not be the state of affairs. Scientists are running from pillar to post and they gradually and surely get addicted to bureaucracy. The worst thing that is happening is that these scientist-bureaucrats are dead scared to think out of the box, lest they be ticked off as “irregular”. I myself have suffered from this stigma. One can’t deny that this is a sad and crippling situation. Fat pay packets have kept them at a distance from original research — they have turned smug and conspicuously introverted. This glaring scarcity of meaningful leadership has, in turn, made our scientific arena lifeless, monotonous and barren, almost devoid of any creative science. Q: Do you think that our increased devotion to religiosity is primarily responsible for this sorry state? Sinha: I fear that an overemphasis on rituals and religion has led partially to this casual indifference. Signs of superstitious religiosity are to be found everywhere at present. For example, a central minister attending the convocation at IIT Kharagpur invoked the past and claimed that the bridge to Sri Lanka built by the monkey (in the Ramayana) was an engineering marvel. Not only did the minister trumpet this “achievement”, he also sought a vocal endorsement from the audience consisting mainly of academics devoted to reason and science. Well, I think an overdose of Hindutva is responsible for this ludicrous claim.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
04-03-2021||India||Notice to Imphal-based web portal under new rules||The power to administer the newly framed rules to regulate social and digital media has “not been delegated” to state governments, the Union information and broadcasting ministry has said after learning about a notice served to two editors of an Imphal-based news portal under the new regulations. Under the new rules notified on February 25, Imphal West district magistrate Naorem Praveen Singh had served notices to The Frontier Manipur’s (TFM) executive editor Paojel Chaoba and associate editor Kishorechandra Wangkhemcha at their homes in Imphal, the capital of Manipur, on Tuesday morning. The notices had allegedly served by armed policemen and dealt with a chat show whose topic centred around “a media under siege” and had discussed the new laws to regulate websites and video-streaming platforms. The two were asked to furnish all relevant documents “showing that you ensure compliance of the provisions of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, failing which steps as deemed fit shall be initiated without further notice”. The notice was withdrawn by the district magistrate around 6pm following the “intervention” of the information and broadcasting ministry on Tuesday. Union information and broadcasting secretary Amit Khare wrote a two-paragraph letter to Manipur chief secretary Rajesh Kumar in connection with the district magistrate’s letter to the publisher/intermediary of Khanasi Neinasi. Khanasi Neinasi (Let us discuss), is a weekend talk show hosted by The Frontier Manipur and deals with freedom of expression. Khare’s letter said that “Part III” of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, framed under the Information Technology Act, 2000, “relating to news publishers and publishers of Online Curated Content (OTT) Platforms, including the Code of Ethics, the 3-Tier Grievance Redressal Mechanism and the requirement of furnishing of information and disclosure of information, are to be administered by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting Government of India. These powers have not been delegated to the State Governments: District Magistrate/Police Commissioner.” Choaba and Wangkhemcha described the DM’s notice as “misuse of power” and an “attack on freedom of speech”. “Our notice would perhaps be the first to have been served to anyone in the country. The rules state that there should be at least a six-member grievance redress committee to address grievances of publishers. It is like putting the cart before the bullock here. They served the notice through armed policemen but we have nothing to worry as we have all the documents. Frontier Manipur was registered under the MSME Act in August 2020. The new rules will not affect us,” Choaba told The Telegraph on Wednesday. “Like in the last show we had discussed issues related to a media under siege and journalists walking a tightrope. Ironically, in this show we had ironically discussed the new IT laws governing social and digital media,” Chaoba said. So far the website has telecast four episodes on Facebook and YouTube, he said. Asked what would be their future course of action, Chaoba said they were planning to meet the DM on Thursday to know why the notice was served. “Above all, why should the notice be served through armed policemen? We are also consulting our lawyers for the future course of action,” he said. DM Singh could not be contacted despite several attempts. Reacting to the development, Manipur Congress spokesperson Ningombam Bupenda Meitei said the BJP-led state government’s “attempts to intimidate freedom of expression” is reflected in the letter of Khare, who has made it clear that a DM has no powers to ask for furnishing of information under the new rules. “There is no excuse in the eyes of justice for not knowing the law,” Meitei said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
04-03-2021||India||Kerala to turn houses into mini-solar plants||Before Govindan Satheeshan installed solar panels on the roof of his home in Kerala under a government scheme two years ago, the 70-year-old retiree was unsure. Would the panels produce enough electricity? Would they be too expensive? Would the system suffer technical glitches? But his hefty electricity bills, of up to Rs 15,000 every two months, motivated him to sign up  and today his bills have dropped close to zero. Satheeshan is so happy with the results he invited anyone uncertain about installing a home solar system to visit him in Thiruvananthapuram. “People are still doubtful about the feasibility of rooftop solar panels. If anyone is interested but sceptical, they are welcome to visit my home and I will clarify (the benefits),” he told  Reuters. Kerala now hopes to convince more residents to make the switch, launching a new solar rooftop programme in January aimed at curbing carbon emissions and cutting the state’s reliance on imported power. The Soura (Sun) project aims to install solar panels on 75,000 homes, which will contribute 350 megawatts (MW) of power to the state’s grid. Combined with the 20,000 houses that already put in solar panels under an earlier initiative, the new Soura project will help Kerala cover about 10 per cent of its electricity needs through solar, according to the KSEB, the state’s electricity board. Despite Kerala’s solar innovations — from the world’s first solar airport to India’s largest floating solar power plant — the state has lagged behind much of the country in wider uptake of the renewable energy source. Kerala sits in the middle of a ranking of India’s 28 states in terms of installed solar capacity, according to data from the ministry of new and renewable energy. Soura offers a subsidy to encourage residents to sign up for the project and dispel the common belief that solar panels are only for the rich, explained A. Nasarudeen, a KSEB project leader. “We have streamlined this project, ensuring that ordinary people will benefit. Their houses will be mini-solar power stations. By exploring solar energy, they can be self-reliant in their electricity needs,” he said in an interview. Any surplus electricity the rooftop systems generate can be sold back to the KSEB at a rate of Rs 3 per kilowatt-hour. The project is part of the state’s plan to generate 1,000 MW — about a quarter of its electricity needs — from the sun by 2022. The KSEB figures show that about 30 per cent of the electricity Kerala uses is produced in the state, with the rest brought in from other states or the national grid at a cost of about Rs 80 billion per year. With more than 33 million residents, according to the latest census, Kerala is India’s third most densely populated state, leaving little available land to build large solar grids, explained Aneesh S. Prasad at the government’s Agency for New and Renewable Energy Research and Technology. So the government is looking to residents’ rooftops to tap into the sun’s energy, said the state programme manager. C. T. Ajith Kumar, an energy expert at the Integrated Rural Technology Centre, a research and development institution in Kerala, said the state’s focus on solar made both economic and environmental sense. “For reducing carbon emissions, Kerala has no other option other than solar,” he said. “We can’t cut trees or destroy forest for the purpose of building new hydroelectric power stations. Thermal power stations would generate more emissions. But solar energy is absolutely pollution-free. We have to explore it.” On top of the estimated Rs 15 billion the Soura project will cost — paid by the MNRE, KSEB and solar panel producers that sign up — another Rs 5 billion will go toward a sub-scheme aimed at low-income consumers. Those eligible will have to pay only 12 per cent of the installation cost of their solar panels, said KSEB’s Nasarudeen. The homeowners get to use 25 per cent of the electricity they produce, with the rest going into the grid, he explained. Even if it overcomes the problem of affordability, the project faces other challenges, said Ambalamukku resident Jacob Varghese, 65, who had solar panels installed under the earlier rooftop scheme. He and other residents he knows had to wait a long time to get approval from the KSEB, visiting its offices many times. “Then, after installing the solar panels, getting the subsidy was the next staggering effort,” he said. “As a businessman, I had the patience and financial background to cope with the initial hiccups. But could ordinary people cope with them?" he asked. Nasarudeen said the KSEB was confident it could tackle those issues. By involving more installation companies, the government plans to bring the wait time for residents down to no more than seven days and have subsidies paid as soon as installation starts, he noted. Swapna Ebi Varkey, a 48-year-old housewife in Thiruvananthapuram who installed solar panels on her roof a few years ago, said she was keen for the government to succeed in its quest to get Kerala’s homes running on the sun. “Suppose every home in Kerala turned into a mini-rooftop solar power station. Then we could easily make the state clean and green,”  she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
04-03-2021||India||Caste data hole in first meet on census update||Preparations for the second Socio-Economic Caste Census have begun, but collection of caste-specific data was not discussed at a review meeting held in December, casting doubts over whether the information would be sought at all. An inter-ministerial committee has been formed with secretaries from the rural development, housing and urban affairs and social justice ministries and officials of the Niti Aayog to oversee the SECC update. A meeting of the committee was held in December 2020. “The first meeting discussed modalities of data collection and revisiting the deprivation points, inclusion and exclusion criteria. There was no discussion on collection of caste data,” a rural development ministry official said. The rural development ministry is the nodal agency for the revision. While the decadal population census collects data on the Scheduled Castes and Tribes, the last time data on other castes was collected and made public was in the 1931 census. That has been the basis for reservation policies since. Experts have stressed the need to update the data so as to understand the current status of representation of backward castes in education and government jobs and examine whether quota ceilings need to be revised. The UPA government had expanded the 2011-12 Below Poverty Line (BPL) census to cover caste-specific data, rechristening it Socio-Economic Caste Census. The data compilation was completed by 2013-end, months before the general election. In 2015, by which time the BJP government had come to power, the socio-economic information from the census was released but the caste data was held back. According to a media release issued by the Press Information Bureau (PIB) on July 16, 2015, the SECC enumeration had thrown up around 46 lakh castes, sub-castes, synonyms, surnames, clans and gothras. The Union cabinet in July 2015 set up a committee under then Niti Aayog vice-chairman Arvind Panagariya to classify the caste names collected in SECC 2011-12 with details of households. The committee has yet to give its report. SECC 2011-12 had collected socio-economic data such as assets of households, including telephone, motorcycle, land, pucca house and tax payment. It had gathered deprivation data such as the number of families who had one room kuchcha wall and kuchcha roof, households with no adult member or no literate adults and landless families. This information, not caste-specific formatted data, is being used by the government to decide on inclusion and exclusion of persons for welfare schemes. In 2018, then home minister Rajnath Singh announced that the decadal census of 2021-31 would collect caste data of OBCs. However, this promise seems to have been quietly buried because the census questionnaire does not have a caste column. Justice Vangala Eswaraiah, former acting chief justice of Andhra Pradesh High Court and ex-chairperson of the NCBC, questioned the reasons for not making caste data collected during SECC 2011-12 public. “Let us be very realistic and truthful. The BJP government had in 2018 announced an OBC census as part of the decadal census. But it retracted from the promise. There is a demand for a caste census across the country from all the leading groups representing backward classes. But unless there is a nationwide agitation, I do not see any prospects of a caste census,” Eswaraiah said. The Rohini Commission, which has been formed to suggest the categorisation of backward classes for the rational distribution of the 27 per cent OBC quota, cannot do justice to the job without caste data, Eswaraiah said. “Selective government job data and the national sample survey data cannot present the real status of the backward classes. Only a census will give scientific and reliable data for categorising the backward classes,” he added. An official of the ministry of social justice, which is part of the SECC revision, said: “The caste data of backward classes can be collected when the SECC is updated. Data can be captured under caste names maintained in the central OBC list of the National Commission of Backward Classes (NCBC) and the state OBC lists,” the official said. Nearly 2,600 castes have been listed under the central OBC list, while another 1,000-odd castes have been listed under the state OBC lists. G. Karunanidhy, secretary of the All India Federation of OBCs, and Hansaraj Jangra, president of the OBC Joint Action Committee, said they were doubtful about the enumeration of caste data in the latest edition of the SECC. “There is an upper caste lobby against the equal representation of OBCs in jobs and education. We feel this lobby does not allow the caste census to be conducted. They will continue to block a caste census,” Karunanidhy said. He said data should be collected on all castes, including the dominant ones. The new 10 per cent quota for economically weaker sections was introduced without any hard socio-economic data on the upper caste poor, he said. Karunanidhy said each state had its own list of OBCs, which also covered the castes enumerated in the central list. OBC caste data can be collected under the caste heads, he suggested. “It is not at all difficult. The enumerators will be given the OBC caste list of the areas they are visiting. While collecting the data, the enumerators can also collect the caste data and enter the names of households under specific castes,” Karunanidhy said. Jangra said National Sample Survey Office (NSSO) information was only a sample and real caste data could be collected only through a census.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
04-03-2021||India||12-year-old murdered, dumped in pit in Uttar Pradesh||A 22-year-old man was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly killing a minor girl after a failed rape attempt, police said, adding that the victim’s body was exhumed from his house in Uttar  Pradesh’s Bulandshahr. The accused, identified as Harendra, was arrested from Shimla. The body of the 12-year-old girl was exhumed from a pit in his house on Tuesday, days after it was buried. The girl was reported missing from her home in Bulandshahr district on February 25. An FIR was lodged on February 28 on the basis of the complaint of her father, a labourer, the police said. “In his complaint, the girl’s father had said he suspected (Harendra). The body had been buried in a pit in the courtyard of the accused’s house and has been exhumed. He killed her and buried the body,” Bulandshahr senior superintendent of police Santosh Kumar Singh said. According to the police, the accused lived alone in the house. The family is known to him and the girl would sometimes visit his house to drink water. “On the day of the incident, when she went to his house to drink water, the accused confessed that he was inebriated. He tried to rape the girl but she started screaming and he choked her to death,” Singh said, adding the accused had absconded after the incident. “We were on a lookout for him. Today, around 7.30am, he was tracked and arrested from Shimla,” the officer said. The accused told the police that he worked as a labourer in Delhi and had come home in Bulandshahr, three days prior to the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
04-03-2021||India||Mirwaiz Umar Farooq set to be released from house arrest||Separatist dove Mirwaiz Umar Farooq’s likely release from a 20-month-long house arrest before Friday gave a fresh hope to the Valley’s embattled politicians of a renewed engagement between India and Pakistan after years of troubled relations. Official sources said the Mirwaiz, who is under detention at his Nageen residence since the 2019 scrapping of Article 370 provisions, was likely to be released soon and might be allowed to offer Friday prayers at Srinagar’s Jamia Masjid this week. The Mirwaiz is Kashmir’s chief priest. The government has been in denial that any person is under house arrest in Kashmir, which has been contested by several politicians in court. The reports of his likely release have come days after the directors-general of military operations of India and Pakistan agreed to respect the ceasefire at the Line of Control. The Mirwaiz, unlike his hardline separatist rival Syed Ali Shah Geelani, had welcomed the decision of the two armies and said it was a move in the right direction. Mirwaiz’s aide Syed-ur-Rahman Shams said they had heard about media reports that he might be released but nothing had been conveyed to them officially. “Mirwaiz sahab made no effort to walk out of his home today but he might step out on Friday to offer prayers at Jamia Masjid. As of today, a security vehicle, which has been at his gate for months now, remained parked,” Shams told The Telegraph. Valley politicians welcomed the “release” and linked it to the fresh Indo-Pak thaw. Former chief minister Omar Abdullah said “changed understanding of both the neighbouring countries with respect to Jammu and Kashmir will act as forerunner of peace and prosperity in the region”. Omar said the “evolving situation has made it pretty clear that the outlook of both the countries has undergone a big change and has been replaced with a policy of peaceful engagement”. Peoples’ Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti “welcomed” the release of the Mirwaiz, referring to some media reports. “Good to hear about Mirwaiz’s release from arbitrary detention. I hope that hundreds of Kashmiri men languishing in jails in & outside J&K will also be released soon. Its time they returned home to their families,” she tweeted. The Mutahida Majlis Ulama, a body of Islamic clerics that is headed by the Mirwaiz, in a statement referred to reports of his likely release and asked the government to honour it. The council on Wednesday held a meeting in Srinagar where representatives of social and educational institutions joined them to press for the Mirwaiz’ release.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
04-03-2021||India||Karnataka minister quits over sex-for-job scandal||Karnataka water resources minister Ramesh Jarkiholi resigned from the cabinet on Wednesday, a day after being caught in a sex-for-job scandal. Ramesh sent his resignation letter to chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa who promptly accepted it and forwarded it to the state governor. The resignation was expected as the BJP was caught in an embarrassing position with the budget session of the state legislature set to begin on Thursday. Ramesh, 60, landed in the controversy after intimate video clips of him with an unidentified jobseeker from north Karnataka were released to the media by social worker Dinesh Kallahalli on Tuesday. Kallahalli had also lodged a police complaint claiming that the minister allegedly lured the family of the woman by promising her a job in the Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation Limited. Ramesh on Tuesday had told a Kannada channel that he had no idea about the video clips and called it fake. But with pressure mounting even within the BJP for his scalp, he sent his younger brother and BJP MLA Balachandra Jarkiholi to meet Yediyurappa seeking a CBI or CID probe into the video. But, party sources said, the chief minister urged Balachandra to ask his brother to resign immediately and avoid further embarrassment ahead of the budget session. In his brief letter in Kannada, Ramesh promised to prove his innocence. “The allegations against me are far from truth. A probe should be ordered soon. I am tendering my resignation on moral grounds although I am sure of proving my innocence,” the letter said. Ramesh, a former Congress lawmaker, was partly instrumental in the collapse of that party’s coalition government with the Janata Dal Secular in 2019. He led a rebellion that saw 17 coalition lawmakers resigning en masse and joining the BJP. Most of the turncoats were eventually inducted into the cabinet as a reward for bringing BJP back to power. Ramesh was appointed minister in February 2020. He is the eldest of the five Jarkiholi brothers, the others being state Congress working president Satish, BJP leaders Balachandra and Bhimashi, and Lakhan who is with the Congress. The Opposition Congress came down heavily on Ramesh and the BJP over the scandal. Leader of the Opposition P.C. Siddaramiah demanded an investigation into the incident. “The government should not just accept his resignation, but also file an FIR and investigate him,” he told reporters. AICC spokesperson Brijesh Kalappa told reporters that his continuance in the ministry had become untenable after such a serious issue. He said the victim ousted the video clips after Ramesh failed to keep his promise of a job. “The videos were released when he failed to keep his promise,” he said, alluding to the development. Kalappa also pointed out how Ramesh is heard speaking ill of Yediyurappa in one of the video clips. “He is heard saying Yediyurappa is corrupt in one of the videos. Imagine speaking badly of his own chief minister.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-297
04-03-2021||India||Fire breaks out in Similipal tiger reserve||A devastating fire has broken out in the Similipal tiger reserve and its periphery areas, the second-largest biosphere of Asia, prompting the Odisha government to deploy nearly 1,000 people in different parts of the sanctuary spread across 2,750sqkm. Though the core area of the tiger reserve is located in Mayurbhanj district, its periphery areas touch another two districts — Balasore and Keonjhar. The Centre has sought a detailed report on the fire following widespread concern. The incident came to light after Ashita M. Bhanj Deo, popularly known as the princess of Mayurbhanj, raised the issue and tweeted, “Mayurbhanj had devastating forest fire this past week, a week ago close to 50kg of ivory was found, a few months ago local youth reported on sand-timber mafia in Similipal, Apart from a few state media, no national media is covering Asia’s second-largest biosphere burning.” The fire has devoured a few of the 21 ranges in the Similipal forest division. However, local forest officials maintained that the fire was under control and not a single animal death had been reported. The Centre ordered a detailed report after Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan raised the issue. “I have ordered officers to take immediate action and report it to me,” tweeted Union minister of environment, forest and climate change Prakash Javadekar. Deputy director of Similipal Tiger Reserve, J.D. Pati, told The Telegraph: “The fire is yet to reach the core area of the forest. Flames have been spotted in the periphery areas of the sanctuary. Nearly 1,000 personnel, including fire officials, have been engaged to douse the fire. As many as 242 fire extinguishing blowers and 40 vehicles have been deployed.” On the reason behind the fire, Pati said, “A heat wave is on and the temperature is seven degrees above normal. The mercury hovers at 40°C. There are many reasons behind the fire. But we are on a constant vigil. So far, not a single casualty of wild animals has been reported.” The sanctuary is home to 55 important animal species, including tigers and elephants. The tiger reserve has 21 tigers, including six melanistic ones. “All the animals are safe. With the help of local people we are doing our bit to control the fire,” said Pati. The local residents pointed out that there had been a massive loss of the trees, particularly the rare medicinal plants. Many people suspect the mafia of having started the fire to poach wild animals and collect mahua. “The fire is visible even from a distance of 40km. It appears like a ball of fire in the evening. The fire has already spread to areas such as Thakurmunda, Morada, Jashipur and other parts of the district. Last year, the forest officials had failed to conduct the mandatory cleaning of the forest. Their laxity has resulted in the breakout of the fire. It’s almost difficult to drive on NH-16 passing through the district,” said a senior scribe of a leading vernacular newspaper of the state from Baripada, the headquarters of Mayurbhanj district. Union minister Pratap Sarangi tweeted: “Similipal is burning and it’s not a good sign for Asia. Mayurbhanj needs national and international attention as its cause is genuine. Sad, not any leading national media is covering the story of Similipal since fire breaks out a week ago.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-297
04-03-2021||West Bengal||Shiv Sena pledges support to Mamata, will not contest elections in Bengal||After the Rashtriya Janata Dal and Samajwadi Party (SP), the Shiv Sena on Thursday extended its support to TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee, and said it would not contest assembly elections in Bengal. Hailing Banerjee as the "real Bengal tigress", the party, which had earlier said that it would join the electoral battle in the state, vowed to "stand in solidarity" with the TMC camp. Senior Shiv Sena leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut, in a tweet, made the announcement and said that the decision was taken following discussions with party president and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Raut took to Twitter and said "at the moment, it appears to be a Didi vs All fight". "A lot of people are curious to know whether Shivsena is contesting Bengal Polls or not? So here's the update after discussions with Party President Uddhav ji Thackeray." "All 'M's - Money, Muscle and Media are being used against 'M'amata Didi. Hence, Shivsena has decided not to Contest West Bengal polls & stand in solidarity with her. We wish Mamata Didi a 'roaring' success, 'cos we believe She is the real Bengal Tigress," he added. On Wednesday, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav said the party would campaign in favour of the TMC for the Assembly election, while accusing Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath of misleading the people in Bengal. In a statement, Yadav said the BJP wanted to come to power in the state by spreading "confusion and propaganda" during the Assembly polls. "The Samajwadi Party will not allow this conspiracy of the BJP to succeed," he added. He alleged that Adityanath was "misleading" the people and appealed to the voters not to fall prey to the designs of the BJP, which "indulges in politics of hate". "It's in the interest of democracy to be cautious of it (BJP)," the SP leader said. Yadav said SP vice president and former minister Kiranmoy Nanda would conduct an election campaign in support of the TMC in the state. RJD chief Tejaswi Yadav pledged allegiance to Banerjee on Monday. "West Bengal is home to a large number of Hindi-speaking people from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand," he had said, adding the RJD's stand is to provide "full support" to Banerjee. The high-stakes elections in Bengal, poised to be a tough contest between the TMC and the BJP, will be held in eight phases between March 27 and April 29. Votes will be counted on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-176
04-03-2021||West Bengal||Protest forces Burdwan university to revoke attendance order||The University of Burdwan on Wednesday issued an order asking teachers and non-teaching staff of 62 degree colleges under its jurisdiction to join duty on the campus but had to withdraw the directive within a few hours following protests from the faculty members who noted that the state government had last month decided not to open colleges and universities immediately in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Sources said the varsity’s inspector of colleges (IC) Sujit Kumar Chowdhury had issued the order. “I am directed to inform you that the executive council, B.U, at its meeting held on 02.03.2021, resolved that in view of the General Election to the Assembly and UG/PG semester examinations to be conducted by the university of Burdwan, regular attendance on all working days and on Sundays (wherever required) in usual office hours for all the teaching, the non-teaching staff and the librarians of all affiliated colleges under the university is urgently required to provide uninterrupted public services for the greater interest of the students. So, you are requested to take necessary steps in this regard,” read the order. “When most college teachers are attending election training, how can they attend college regularly? Moreover, colleges have not been sanitised and railway services are yet to be normalised,” said a college teacher from Birbhum. Following the protests, Chowdhury issued another order on Wednesday evening: “As directed by the competent authority, our earlier letter…dated 03.03.2021 is hereby withdrawn,” the order said. Pro-vice-chancellor Ashis Kumar Panigrahi said the earlier order had been the result of miscommunication.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-176
04-03-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta HC to look into Trinamul leader acquittal overturn||A division bench of Calcutta High Court, headed by Chief Justice T.B.N Radhakrishnan, on Wednesday admitted a plea by former Trinamul leader of East Midnapore Anisur Rahman, who challenged the legality of the high court order on Tuesday that overturned a Tamluk court verdict acquitting him in a 2019 murder case. Rahman, acquitted by Tamluk court on Tuesday, was re-arrested within hours when the bench of Justice Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya set aside the order. The division bench will hear the petition on Monday. Rahman, who had left Trinamul for the BJP in 2018, on Wednesday disassociated himself with the saffron party. The state government also moved a plea before the division bench of Chief Justice Radhakrishnan to withdraw criminal cases filed in 2007 against 14 Trinamul activists of Nandigram by then Left government. The petition will be heard on Friday. However, the Chief Justice remarked “decisions to withdraw cases against murder accused are not wise”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
04-03-2021||West Bengal||Overnight scare for trekker from Calcutta ||A 62-year-old Calcutta trekker, who was part of a senior citizen trekking group, lost his way in the Sandakphu region at an altitude of over 11,000 feet, on Tuesday evening, but was found a day later. Sambhu Roy Chowdhury, 62, a resident of Netaji Nagar in Calcutta, got separated from his group of nine other members owing to dense fog and hilly terrain. “We got information around 8pm (on Tuesday night) that one person in a group of 10 was missing. A rescue operation involving the police, the SSB (Sashastra Seema Bal) and forest personnel was arranged following which Sambhu Roy Chowdhury was rescued today (Wednesday),” said Abhishek Gupta, Darjeeling additional SP. The SSB guards the India-Nepal border in that area. Chowdhury is a retired central government employee and avid trekker, most members of the group are either his former colleagues or friends. Sources said the senior citizen lost his way somewhere between Sandakphu and Moley, a village perched at an altitude of around 11,000 feet. Many trekkers take the Moley route to reach Ramman on their way down from Sandakphu, Bengal’s highest point. Subham, his son, who spoke to The Telegraph over phone from Calcutta, said the group had left Calcutta on February 26 and were scheduled to take a March 5 train to Calcutta. The son said his father had spoken to them around 2pm on Wednesday and sounded fine, though he could not be reached on phone aftterwards. “They are unreachable on cellphones at the moment but are fine,” said an official source. The Telegraph has two video clips taken by the rescue team which shows the trekker crying emotionally after being rescued. “We never thought we would receive support in such an area, hail SSB, police, forest personnel,” members of the team are heard saying in the video. “For us they (rescuers) are God.” Temperatures at the region where the senior citizen lost his way are nearly sub-zero during this time of the year. The Singalila National Park where Sambhu lost his way has a strong wildlife population. The rescued team is expected to reach Maneybhanjyang, the starting point of treks to Sandakphu, by Thursday. Son Subham said that the team whose members fall in the 60 to 65 years bracket were avid trekkers. “This is not his first trek, my father has trekked to many places including Sandakphu on numerous occasions,” said Subham.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
04-03-2021||West Bengal||Four Bangladeshis arrested on border||The Border Security Force arrested four Bangladeshis and an Indian from near the international border on Wednesday morning. The arrest was made by the 129 battalion of the BSF after receiving a tip-off. The arrested Bangladeshis have been identified as Mahima Khatun Bibi, Nasir Sheikh and Rijaul Islam who hail from Bagerhat district and Mohammad Saigander Sheikh  from Fatikchari in the Chittagong district. Sunil Burman, a resident of Sahebganj in Cooch Behar, was arrested along with the quartet. According to BSF sources, the four had infiltrated into India with the help of Burman and were trying to take shelter at a location. The BSF got the tip-off and intercepted them. “The BSF handed over all the five to Sahebganj police station. An investigation has started,” said a police officer. Gaur attack Three gaurs (Indian bison) strayed out of the Patlakhawa forest and entered the Paschim Ghughumari-Fasirhat area near Cooch Behar town on Wednesday. When local people gave the animals a chase, the bison went berserk. Sirajul Haque, a resident, suffered serious injuries after one of the gaurs attacked him. Two domesticated cows were also killed by the rampaging gaurs. The bison also damaged crops in agricultural fields.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
04-03-2021||West Bengal||Murder finger at TMC-leader kin||A youth died and two children got injured after a Trinamul leader and his aides allegedly fired pellets at them on Wednesday morning during an altercation over a plot of land in Islampur subdivision of North Dinajpur. Trinamul leadership in the area, however, have denied the involvement of their party colleague, Mohammad Taimul, and said he was not present when pellets were fired. A police team rushed to the spot at Bandiragach village under Islampur police station and recovered the body. Both the injured are under treatment at the Islampur sub-division hospital. The attackers fled the spot. Police sources have that said the deceased Mohammad Faiyal, 24, who was a resident of Bandiragach village, had been having a dispute with Taimul, one of his relatives and also the Trinamul member of the local Agdimkhunti panchayat, over the possession of a piece of land. During preliminary investigation, the police have also come to know that recently a “salishi sabha” (local kangaroo court) was recently held in the village where it was agreed that Taimul would stop claiming ownership of that piece of land if Faiyal handed him some compensation in cash. “For past new days, Taimul had been asking for the money and Faiyal apparently was buying time,” said a police source. “On Wednesday, Taimul and some of his associates reached the latter’s place and asked for the money. An altercation ensued and Taimul and those accompanied him fired pellets at Faiyal and his family members,” the policeman said. As Faiyal’s family raised an outcry, some locals came out, prompting the attackers to escape the spot. Faiyal and two other children of his family, who are 10 and 13 years old, respectively, were rushed to Islampur subdivisional hospital where doctors pronounced the youth dead. A police team went to the spot and started investigation. “The attackers have fled the village. Searches are on to nab them,” said a police officer. Trinamul leaders of Islampur block, however, have denied Taimul’s involvement in the incident. “Taimul was not present at the spot. It is the fallout of a family dispute but some people are trying to victimise him for political reasons,” said Zakir Hossain, a Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
04-03-2021||West Bengal||Army man held over uncle murder in North Dinajpur||An army man has been arrested from Uttar Pradesh in connection with the murder of his uncle near Raiganj in North Dinajpur district in January. Mohammad Ali, a Trinamul Congress leader of Krishnamuri village, had gone missing from his home on January 26. The following day, his body was found at nearby Laxmania-Jhumjhumia with bullet injuries. The police came to know that he was having problems with his brother Tepu Ali over the possession of a piece of land. Soon, the police arrested Sikandar Ali, a nephew of the victim, for allegedly involved in the murder. “During interrogation, Sikandar admitted that he and his brother Shahenshah had conspired and killed their uncle. Shahenshah was on leave and after the murder, he fled the village. We started tracking his cellphone and communicated with army officials,” said a police officer. As the police came to know that Shahenshah was posted in Alwar of Rajasthan, a five-member team lead by Ashish Kundu, a sub-inspector posted in Raiganj police station, went there in search of him. “In Alwar, the team members were told that he was posted at an army camp in Talbehat that is in Lalitpur district of Uttar Pradesh. The team went there and on February 28, he was arrested,” the police officer added. On Tuesday, the team reached Raiganj with Shahenshah and on Wednesday, he was produced at the Chief Judicial Magistrate’s court. “The court heard the case and sent him to police custody for 14 days. A petition was filed by the police, seeking his custody as he needs to be interrogated,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
04-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly polls: Banners seek ‘son of soil’ on Gautam Deb’s turf||Several banners were seen on Wednesday in Dabgram-Fulbari Assembly constituency, the seat of state tourism minister Gautam Deb, seeking a “son of the soil” as the Trinamul candidate for the seat in the upcoming elections. As the news spread, Trinamul supporters took down the banners. While local party leaders alleged it was the ploy of rivals, Deb, likely to contest from the seat for the third time, downplayed the issue. On Wednesday, banners with the message seeking a “bhoomiputra” from Trinamul for Dabgram-Fulbari Assembly seat were seen in Kamrangaguri, near Uttarkanya — the state branch secretariat — and in Chunabhati area. The demand came from a group that introduced itself as “amra didir Trinamul Congress er sainik (We are the soldiers of Didi’s Trinamul Congress)”. However, no “sainik” has come forward so far. A political observer said that in north Bengal, this was the first time that such banners had been seen in the constituency of any state minister. “Those who put them up seem to be trying to stoke local sentiments as Deb is not a resident of his constituency (he is a resident of Collegepara in Siliguri, under Siliguri Assembly seat),” he added. “However, I don’t think that such tactics will rattle a seasoned politician like Deb,” the political observer added. Debasish Pramanik, who is the president of Trinamul’s Dabgram-Fulbari branch committee, said that Deb, over the past couple of months, had been “relentlessly working in his constituency from dawn to dusk and is literally trying to reach out to every household”. “The minister is receiving overwhelming response from people. That’s why we suspect these banners are a ploy of our rival political parties to undermine his efforts and that of our party as a whole before the elections,” said Pramanik. Dabgram-Fulbari constituency, which is under Jalpaiguri district, is spread over 14 wards of Siliguri Municipal Corporation and four contiguous panchayats. Since 2011, Deb has won twice successively from here. But in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP candidate of Jalpaiguri managed to secure a lead of over 80,000 votes from the Assembly segment. Minister Deb — one of Trinamul’s veterans who also seems aware that this was a crucial election — appeared unfazed when asked about the banners on Wednesday. “No point in giving importance to this,” Deb said. “Those who have put up the banners better come out in open, and if they feel like, can campaign against me,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
04-03-2021||West Bengal||Morcha leader held in Sikkim||Lopsang Lama (Yolmo), the working president of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Bimal Gurung camp) and purportedly an aspirant of the party for the Kalimpong Assembly seat, was arrested from Namchi in Sikkim on Wednesday. Sikkim police arrested Yolmo under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act but did not divulge specifics. Prawin Gurung, spokesperson of Sikkim police, confirmed the arrest. Sikkim’s political eco-system is largely considered to be aligned to the BJP. Bimal Gurung recently dumped the BJP and joined hands with Trinamul in poll-bound Bengal. “Against the backdrop of Bimal Gurung now supporting Trinamul, the arrest of one of his leaders, Yolmo, from Sikkim is significant,” said an observer, who saw in the development a “significant political message” ahead of the crucial Assembly polls. “It could be a message that things are not easy for Gurung,” said an observer. “Lopsang Lama (Yolmo) has been arrested in a case related to the Pocso Act and will be produced in court within 24 hours of the arrest,” said Sikkim police spokesperson and DIG (range) Gurung. A senior leader from the Bimal Gurung camp confirmed to this paper that Yolmo was one of the party's aspirants from Kalimpong. The arrest had “surprised them”, he added. Roshan Giri, the general secretary of the Morcha (Bimal Gurung camp), refused to comment. “I, too, have just heard about the arrest but since I am not aware of the details, I am not in a position to comment,” he said. Yolmo, who runs an educational institution in Namchi, Sikkim, was the deputy chairman of Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) Sabha when Gurung was at the helm of GTA and is also the current working president of the party. He was also the elected GTA Sabha member from constituency 45 of Kalimpong. Bengal police had earlier alleged that Sikkim had provided a safe haven to Gurung, who was “underground” for three years since the Gorkhaland agitations in 2017. But that was when Gurung was a BJP ally. In fact, a raid had also been conducted in Namchi (Sikkim) during the 2017 hill agitation in Sikkim. Gurung surfaced in Calcutta in October 2020 as a Trinamul ally and since then has blasted the BJP in public meetings. Yolmo’s arrest is seen by many as proof of repercussions with the change in political equations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
04-03-2021||West Bengal||Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury accuses Anand Sharma of helping Trinamul and BJP through tweets||Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Wednesday accused party leader Anand Sharma of helping the Trinamul Congress and the BJP through his tweets that criticised the Congress’s move for an alliance with the Indian Secular Front, a fledgling outfit floated by Muslim cleric Abbas Siddiqui. “He (Sharma) came out on Twitter with his own views against the party (Congress) and thereby creating a controversy about the party...By this he has only helped the forces that are against us. In Bengal, he has helped Trinamul and the BJP. Hence, we condemned his words,” Chowdhury told journalists in Berhampore on Wednesday. Sharma, a member of G-23 (group of dissenters in the Congress), had tweeted on Monday criticising the party’s alliance with the ISF. “Congress’s alliance with the ISF and other such forces militates with the core ideology of the party and Gandhian and Nehruvian secularism, which forms the soul of the party. These decisions need to be approved by the CWC,” Sharma wrote. In another tweet Sharma criticised Chowdhury’s role in the alliance. “It was a matter of just one phone call. In his tweet, Anand Sharma said he believed that the alliance in Bengal was against the Congress’s ideologies. If he had called me, I would have explained it to him,” said Chowdhury, the leader of the Congress legislature party in the Lok Sabha. He added that Sharma hadn’t spoken within the party over his reservations about the tie-up with the ISF . Clarifying his stand on the ISF, Chowdhury has said the party’s nature is secular as its name suggests. He added that the Congress had clarified that the first condition for the alliance must be secularism. “The leaders of the ISF might have said something (objectionable) earlier...We can’t stick to that in our way forward. The ISF has adivasis and Dalits,” said the Berhampore MP. He said all parties had made objectionable comments at some point of time. “If we find them saying something communal after aligning with us, we will not support that...Rather, we will reject them outright,” Chowdhury said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
04-03-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati VC faces protest over 'derogatory' remarks||Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty on Wednesday faced protests from a group of teachers of the physics department in the wake of his alleged “derogatory” remarks, forcing him to leave a teachers’ council meeting. Teachers said Chakrabarty was shouted at till he left, after he used terms like “awmanush (inhuman)” and “Mir Jafar” for teachers over their alleged negligence in keeping files safe from termites. In the evening, the department took a resolution to condemn the VC’s “obnoxious behaviour”. In the resolution, they cited the words “awmanush” and “Mir Jafar”. “A teachers’ council meeting was called by the principal earlier, where the VC suddenly came and started accusing teachers as some files were damaged by termites....He suddenly started abusing us, using terms such as awmanush and Mir Jafar. All the teachers stood up...asked him to get lost if he couldn’t speak like a gentleman,” said a physics teacher. “The VC had to leave. One may say he was shouted out,” he added. A physics teacher said when Chakrabarty used words such as Mir Jafar, he was called “Tughlaq”, used to imply a whimsical decision-maker. Wednesday’s incident took place within few days of a police complaint against Chakrabarty by two physics teachers over the alleged confinement of a group of English teachers for over six hours. Teachers had alleged it was a ploy by authorities to “grab” a petition to the Prime Minister and President on the varsity’s state of affairs — to identify the teachers who had written it — while authorities claimed that wasn’t confinement but a series of meetings. However, following that incident, the head of the physics department Manas Maity was removed from his post and the two physics teachers were showcaused for lodging the complaint. Sources said four more teachers were showcaused on Wednesday for accompanying the two physics teachers. “Because of the lockdown, termites damaged portions of a few files and principal Taraprasad Chatterjee was informed. The authorities sent two officials to look into the matter and a teachers’ committee meeting was convened. We think it was planned to humiliate us. We had nothing to do with termites when the campus was closed for months,” said a physics teacher. Visva-Bharati public relations officer Anirban Sircar neither took calls nor replied to a text message from this paper. However, in a news release, Sircar said the VC had visited the department on learning files and books had been damaged by termites. Sircar stated when authorities saw what happened to the files and books, teachers expressed their ire which was unfortunate. Sircar said the rooms where the damaged files and books had been stored were sealed and a committee would probe the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
04-03-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul starts booth-level drive using colour codes||The Trinamul Congress leadership in Nadia has started a booth-level drive using colour codes for voter preferences to get an estimate of the party’s strength and finalise its campaign strategy in the run-up to the Assembly polls. Trinamul’s Nadia district unit chief and Krishnagar MP Mahua Moitra, the brain behind this initiative, has asked all booth-level committees to scrutinise the voter list and identify the voting preference of each person with green, orange and red colours. Accordingly to Moitra’s strategy, party workers have begun marking out committed Trinamul voters on the list with the colour green. Voters whose choice is not clear to the ruling party are marked in orange, while those who are expected to cast their votes against Trinamul have been “painted” red. After taking charge of the party organisation in Nadia, Moitra formed booth-level committees and asked workers to begin this colour-coded scrutiny meticulously. “This is a reality check,” Moitra, one of the most talked-about parliamentarians in the Opposition for her impassioned and informed speeches, told The Telegraph. “This is basically an endeavour being taken at every booth to know who are our voters, who are not and who are in the middle. Accordingly, our objective is to work on those who are not our committed voters, so that they can be brought in our favour,” Moitra added. Moitra has told the workers to be careful as she would compare their booth-level report with actual booth-wise results after the elections. “It has been introduced as a reality check in the true sense. Sometimes party leaders at the grassroots level claim to ensure a lead by a big margin, but eventually results reveal a different story. So, I have told booth-level workers to be careful while scrutinising voters,” Moitra said. Party insiders said Moitra had introduced the method during the 2019 Lok Sabha election, but the effort was not successful because some grassroots leaders apparently did not cooperate. Leaders close to Moitra claimed that in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Trinamul had lost in 14 Assembly segments out of 17 in Nadia only owing to poor ground-level scrutiny despite her repeated appeals. But Moitra introduced mandatory booth-level voter list scrutiny after taking responsibility of the organisation during December last year. “In December last year, Mahuadi launched direct interaction with the party workers at 4,582 booths in the district when she directed us to begin the scrutiny of voters using colour codes in an organised manner for the first time. Now our main objective is to continue pursuing the orange voters (fence-sitters) as advised by her so as to ensure a win,” said a booth committee member in Ranaghat. Moitra added: “I have told booth-level workers to meticulously know their voters well. Sometimes party workers spend time on negative voters by visiting them repeatedly. BJP workers also do not spend time unnecessarily by trying to woo Muslim voters repeatedly...”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
04-03-2021||West Bengal||Morcha status haze in three hill seats ||Confusion prevails in the two factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha over filing of nominations as leaders of both the camps lack formal recognition as office-bearers of the party because of a legal tangle. According to an order issued by Calcutta High Court and an observation made by the Election Commission of India, Bimal Gurung and Binay Tamang, who head the rival factions, don’t have recognition as authorised office-bearers of the Morcha. The Morcha, sources said, is a registered unrecognised party. This means that in any election, the party’s name will appear next to the name of its candidate but unlike recognised parties, it cannot use its own symbol and will have to choose one from the symbols provided by the EC. “The issue had come to light back in 2019, ahead of Lok Sabha elections. That is why Amar Singh Rai had contested as a Trinamul candidate in the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat and Binay Tamang as an Independent in the Darjeeling Assembly bypoll. The same situation persists,” said a Morcha leader of the Tamang faction. With this, the leaders of both factions who have already asserted that they would field candidates in the hill seats and that they would not support each other, have complicated the situation for Mamata Banerjee and her party, opined a veteran in hill politics. “As both factions of Morcha, which is still considered the largest political force in the hills, sided with Trinamul, there was a renewed vigour within Trinamul leaders of Darjeeling and north Bengal as a whole about their prospects in the hill seats. But bickering among these factions and the issue of non-recognition have come as posers for Trinamul,” he said. This prompted L.B. Rai, the president of Darjeeling (hills) Trinamul, to write to the state leadership last week requesting that Trinamul field candidates with the party’s ticket in these three seats. Morcha insiders said if any or both factions field candidates in the next Assembly elections, they will have to contest either as Independents or as a candidate of their ally Trinamul. “If we go with the first option, we have to take the onus to say during campaigns which faction of the Morcha this Independent candidate represents. This is necessary to ensure that the individual’s supporters do not get confused. This time, both sides (Morcha factions) have said they will field candidates in all three hill seats,” a Morcha leader from the Bimal Gurung camp said. Keshav Raj Pokhrel, the spokesperson of the Tamang faction of Morcha, said: “During the campaign, we can use our party flag and say who is our candidate. This, we believe, can help us tide over the present situation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
04-03-2021||West Bengal||State kept in dark on IAS poll tour||The Election Commission has appointed 29 IAS officers from Bengal as poll observers in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam and Puduchery without consulting Nabanna, which, according to sources, is a departure from the EC’s practices. “The EC sent the names of 29 IAS officers to Nabanna mentioning that they needed to join the training programme for election observers in Delhi on March 3.… The state was not kept in the loop when the EC selected the observers,” said a senior Bengal government official. Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam and Puduchery will go to the polls, along with Bengal, in March and April. According to sources, there was a standard practice of selecting election observers in the country. The EC usually asks various states to send a certain number of officers, preferably of IAS, for their engagement as poll observers. A section of officials at Nabanna said the Bengal government had refused to send the required number of officers as poll observers in the past. “In the past few elections, the state government had never sent enough officers despite repeated requests from the EC. That might be the reason behind the EC’s unilateral appointment of 29 IAS officers as poll observers,” said a source. The way the EC functioned with regard to the election observers has given an impression that the poll panel might post officials in crucial positions without consulting the Bengal government in case incumbent officers are removed ahead of the polls. “Usually, the EC removes officers involved in the election process if an allegation of bias comes against him or her. But the replacement is made in consultation with the state government. But the mood of the EC suggests it will not follow the standard practice if such a situation arrives,” said a source at Nabanna. “The poll panel might appoint officers unilaterally as the BJP has started alleging that the entire administration is biased,” said another official. After the model code of conduct for the 2021 Assembly polls came into force, the EC has replaced Jawed Shamim with Jag Mohan as ADG (law and order) after discussing with the state government. Nabanna apprehends that some officers without proper experience could be posted in important positions, which can hurt the entire poll proceedings. “For example, there are officers who never worked as district magistrates. If they are posted as DMs ahead of the polls, entire poll process might get hurt as they don’t have any experience of handling elections in the past. If the state is consulted, then only a proper replacement could be offered,” said a senior bureaucrat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
04-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly polls: Battle of nerves prolongs wait for candidate list||Mamata Banerjee is purportedly ready with a list of Trinamul Congress candidates for all 294 Assembly constituencies, but she didn’t announce even on Wednesday the nominees for the first phase of the elections. In a marked departure from Mamata’s practice of announcing the names of Trinamul candidates ahead of all other parties, the Bengal chief minister kept holding her cards close to the chest, which sources attributed to counsel from poll consultant Prashant Kishor and her religious belief. “This is a crucial election. The BJP is yet to announce names. The others (the Sanyukt Morcha comprising the Left Front, Congress and the ISF) are also far from doing so. There’s no need for a rush,” said a senior Trinamul MP. However, since the last date for filing nomination for the first phase (March 27) of the polls is next Tuesday, nerves were taut in the ruling camp on Wednesday afternoon when it became clear that Mamata was not going to publish the candidate list. “PK (Kishor) has advised Didi against declaring the names for at least the initial phases without first seeing the BJP list. That will enable us to fine-tune our list, making some last-minute changes according to the need,” said the MP. “Besides, she has always considered Friday to be auspicious. She has, for decades, been conducting special prayers for Santoshi Mata (a deity in Hindu folklore) every Friday. Also, a senior servitor of the Jagannath Temple at Puri (who conducted special prayers at her residence the day the polls were announced) had suggested that a good time to declare the candidates will be after 5pm on Friday,” he said, adding that Mamata would file nominations to contest from Nandigram on March 11, the day of Maha Shivratri this year. The BJP state unit’s election management committee met on Wednesday to shortlist the names of probable candidates for the first two phases. Sources said for each of the 60 constituencies (which will go to the polls in the first two phases), around five probable names have been short-listed. However, in yet another indication of how little faith the national leadership of the party has in the state unit, all the names — nearly 1,000 for the 60 seats — are to be presented for consideration. BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh, the national joint general-secretary (organisation) Shivprakash, and the party’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya will carry the two lists with themselves for the Thursday meeting of the parliamentary committee in Delhi. One list will have the short-listed names — around 300 of them — and the other will have all the names. “After the Thursday meeting, the candidates for the first two phases would be announced, either in the evening itself or on Friday morning,” said a BJP state functionary. Trinamul insiders said Mamata might announce all the 294 names on Friday, as she plans to begin an extensive campaign tour from Saturday. “She is going to north Bengal on Saturday. On Sunday, from there, she would steal Narendra Modi’s thunder,” said a Bengal minister. He said the chief minister, in an unusual move, might rain on the Prime Minister’s parade — he has a rally at the Brigade Parade Grounds in Calcutta on Sunday — by conducting her own public event in the north around the same time. “Now, she apparently wants to deny him unhindered coverage in electronic and print media. This could well be her strategy for the entire poll season this time,” he added. From the Sanyukt Morcha, the Left Front has decided to announce its list of candidates for the first two phases on Monday. The Congress state unit, which will meet on Saturday, would also declare its candidates for the first two phases also on Monday, if not on Saturday. ISF chairman Naushad Siddiqui said discussions within his party were on and the list of candidates for the first phase would be announced in “a day or two”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
04-03-2021||Opinion||Double blow to women employment||Crises — economic or medical — invariably have a disproportionate impact on vulnerable constituencies. The Covid-19 pandemic has reiterated this hypothesis. Data from the United Nations had already shown that the increasing domestic burden caused by the restrictions induced by the global contagion resulted in the loss of employment for women. But their suffering has clearly has not stopped there. Recent research at the Azim Premji University is indicative of a double blow for women. Not only were women seven times more likely than men to lose their jobs during the lockdown, but they were also 11 times more likely than men to not return to work thereafter. The scale of the crisis is humongous: half of the pre-pandemic female workforce lost their jobs and were unable to resume work once the lockdown ended. There are several causes for this imbalance and some of them are apparent in the study itself. For instance, married women were less likely than their husbands to return to work, clearly indicating that increased household responsibilities are being unequally distributed among the sexes in accordance with a skewed division of labour. Dishearteningly, women’s educational backgrounds have not made a difference to their fate. Those with higher educational qualifications — these are crucial in securing jobs — were less likely to be re-employed than men with similar degrees of education. The implications are troubling; data from the 2011 census show that between 2001 and 2011, the number of women earning post-graduate, professional and technical degrees went up manifold but it is clear that corresponding employment avenues are scant and are shrinking further. Gender-based prejudice remains a formidable barrier to equitable employment opportunities; it seems to have been aggravated by the pandemic. With India reportedly exiting the recession — gross domestic product growth was 0.4 per cent in the third quarter of 2020 — the government must now focus on regenerating jobs. Companies can harness the work-from-home model to create roles for women employees. The challenge, however, is steeper in the informal sector — at least 22 per cent of female workers are still out of work and little attention is paid to designing policies to address their needs. Rights-based employment initiatives must be mobilized on a war footing to make labour inclusive in rural areas and the informal sector. Unless women’s return to the workforce is encouraged and enabled, the devaluation of their labour and, in effect, their social roles and rights will continue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
04-03-2021||Opinion||Free show: BJP and politics of misogyny||Emotions should be recollected in tranquillity, or they run away in unintended directions. The minister of state for environment, forest and climate change, Babul Supriyo, may have expected laudatory responses to the meme on his handle — he neither created it nor did it carry his statement, he said — that had a ready reply to the Trinamul Congress election slogan with the chief minister’s picture, saying that Bengal wants its own daughter. Under a similar version of this in Hindi was a picture of the Union home minister with an imagined comeback: a daughter is someone else’s wealth — or belonging — and this time she will be sent off. The mischief is multi-layered. The meme is in Hindi, as though addressed to a special ‘peer group’ which will appreciate the mockery; thus it is, implicitly, divisive. Amit Shah’s image suggests the Bharatiya Janata Party’s endorsement of the meme’s attitude towards women. Mr Shah’s determination to remove the TMC from power is no secret; in the meme, this politics is merged with a blatant expression of misogyny. An outburst of criticism compelled Mr Supriyo to take down the meme and acknowledge that it should not have appeared on his handle. The minister of state is a proud gentleman, however, and declared that he would not be given lessons on misogyny by other parties. That is understandable: his own party has the most up-to-date lessons on it. But gender bias is part of a value system. It can manifest itself in politics as much as in society and at home. Being a father of daughters does not automatically cleanse a man of misogyny — then India would have had no female foeticides, female infanticides, minor marriages, girls’ malnutrition and poor education, dowry murders, domestic violence, sex crimes and torture. Mr Supriyo’s logic floundered a bit in his eagerness to wash his hands of the meme; besides, his accompanying comment emphasizing that ‘they’ will definitely send Bengal’s daughter off this time made him complicit, not innocent. Will Bharatiya Janata Party leaders — since one is featured in the meme — rebuke their minister for endorsing a communication that projects women as objects or possessions to be passed from one family to another? Or does India’s ruling party enjoy projecting misogyny in spite of its ‘save girls, teach girls’ rhetoric?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
04-03-2021||Opinion||The politics of bloodshed||Political violence in West Bengal is a routine affair, particularly in an electoral season. The violence embedded in Bengal’s political landscape is believed to be anomalous with the progressive nature of Bengali society and the refinement of its culture. Bengal, however, has had a long history of violence and politics being intertwined in different degrees and for different purposes. During British rule, Bengal was a fertile ground for violent revolutionary activities. There were several reasons that led a segment of Bengali society to turn towards violence in its fight against the colonial power. In the early twentieth century, the dominance of the bhadralok came under attack economically and politically. Earnings from land reduced significantly, as did the influence of educated Bengalis in the British administration. The biggest blow to the people of Bengal came in the form of the administrative decision to divide Bengal. It spurred a segment to embrace violence as prayer and petitioning — often seen as acts of political mendicancy— did not yield the desired result. So violence was accorded political approval and cultural valourization. However, with the rise of M.K. Gandhi in the Congress as well as in the Indian national movement, violence lost its legitimacy as a political tool and the Bengali leadership found itself sidelined. Subsequent political reforms, initiated by the British regime, further reduced the influence of the Bengali Hindu upper-caste leadership. Bengali Muslims emerged as an influential elite group and found a potential ally amongst a section of the ‘depressed classes’. The proposal for separate electorates, known as the Communal Award, ensured that Bengali Hindus remained out of power in the province. This arrangement also aggravated disillusionment with political reform and elections. As Independence approached, the idea of partitioning the province took shape and communal violence intensified. Bengal was ravaged by one of the worst man-made famines during this time. Bengal’s sharecroppers rebelled against the landlords, giving rise to the ‘Tebhaga’ movement that was marked by violence as well. Violent movements continued in independent West Bengal. The Food Movement in the 1950s witnessed violence between the protesters and the administration. The suppression of dissent and the use of brute force against the Opposition enabled violence to make inroads into Bengal’s political life. Another spate of violence began with the Naxalbari movement. Significantly, the communists — those who embraced democracy as well as those who chose revolution — have shaped the contours of political violence in Bengal to a great extent. A number of communist leaders — Promode Dasgupta for one — were drawn from revolutionary organizations like the Anushilan Samity. The communists played a leading role in the Tebhaga Andolan and the Food Movement. Their rise to power in West Bengal came after a long, violent political battle. Therefore, ideologically and experientially, violence had never been distant from Bengal’s communists. West Bengal, unlike other parts of India, did not witness much political mobilization based on caste or religion. These factors remained subterranean in Bengal’s political life. Class and, eventually, political affiliation became substitutes around which people were mobilized. For political parties, the call for support around class or political allegiance yielded better results than appealing to segments of society based on primordial identity. For the supporters, loyalty proved to be beneficial in a society where the party had a pervasive hold on the public welfare mechanism. Refusal to associate with the party was often treated with exemplary violence; the massacre of refugees of Marichjhanpi is a case in point. Gradually, the political narrative woven around class was superseded and the class enemy was replaced by the political opponent. This process, too, entailed a meticulous use of violence. From the Sainbari killings to the deaths in Nandigram, the communist regime ‘normalized’ violence in Bengal’s political life to perpetuate its hold on power. In Bengal, especially in rural Bengal, violence in politics and the politicization of violence went hand in hand. The party that ended communist rule quickly adopted this vocabulary of violence, enabling the vicious cycle to continue. Ironically, the violence is perpetrated to establish a ‘democratic’ claim to power. In reality, this ceaseless violence reflects the lack of respect for democratic ideals and practices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
04-03-2021||Opinion||New equations||For political parties in West Bengal, a rally at the Brigade Parade Ground on the Calcutta Maidan has a special significance. For the Left, the significance has assumed the status of a special pilgrimage — a reason why the ailing Buddhadeb Bhattacharya despaired over his inability to attend the February 28 rally. With nostalgia in plentiful supply in recent years, veteran communists have created legends around the Brigade meetings. They look back wistfully at the time the rising communist party accorded an ecstatic welcome to Nikita Khrushchev — the then leader of the socialist ‘fatherland’— during his visit to Calcutta in November 1955. And they set their attendance standards by the estimated 11 or 12 lakh people who attended the Brigade rally in February 2011, a spectacular show of strength that couldn’t reverse the Left Front’s crashing defeat in the assembly elections three months later. It is always difficult to anticipate how posterity will view the CPI(M)-organized rally last Sunday to proclaim that the three-party alliance is the alternative on offer to the voters of West Bengal. In terms of attendance, the undeniably large gathering didn’t quite set a new record, as was hoped for by the Left Front chairman, Biman Bose. However, the head counting exercise apart, the rally was politically important for the Communist Party of India (Marxist). Since it crashed to its first defeat in an assembly election in 2011, the party has been witnessing a steady decline in its electoral popularity. It plumbed the depths in the 2019 general election when, for the first time since parliamentary democracy was established in India, the two communist parties failed to win even a single seat to the Lok Sabha from West Bengal. Indeed, it managed to save its security in only one parliamentary constituency. In 2019, the CPI(M) was edged out of its place as the principal opposition to Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamul Congress by the Bharatiya Janata Party, a party that had hitherto been on the fringes of Bengal politics. There is no indication that this marginalization has been checked since then. Under the circumstances, last Sunday’s mega rally, when the CPI(M) pulled out all its organizational stops, was important to portray that the Left was back in business — this time with the aid of non-Left allies such as the Congress and the newly-formed Indian Secular Front. In determining its political approach, the communist parties have a tendency to fall back on history. Taking the assistance of non-communists for a larger fight has been part of the collective experience of the communist movement since the 1930s when it was confronted with the challenge of fascism in Europe. There were three approaches that defined the resistance to Hitler and the other variants of the Right. The first and, by far, the most disastrous approach was to go it alone, denounce social democrats as ‘social fascists’ and insist on the party’s monopoly of correctness. This Red Front approach was a factor in the dissipation of anti-Nazi energies in the immediate run-up to Hitler assuming power in 1933. The second approach, better known as the United Front strategy, lay in allying with non-communist parties and forces but with the communists at the helm. The CPI(M) has, for long, pursued this approach in West Bengal and Kerala, its two strongholds. It was the principle of the United Front that explains why the CPI(M) politburo rejected the suggestion that Jyoti Basu should assume charge as prime minister in the fractured Parliament of 1996. Since the CPI(M) would not be the dominant partner of any coalition, it chose the safe option of supporting the United Front government from the outside. Finally, there is the Popular Front approach, crafted in France of the 1930s, that lay in participating in mass movements and even governments as a non-dominant partner — an approach orthodox Leninists find abhorrent. In the West Bengal elections of 2016, the CPI(M) forged a mahajot with the Congress as an extension of the United Front strategy. Although it maintained its misgivings over the Congress’s larger political orientation, it felt that a ‘bourgeois’ partner was necessary to give the party an opportunity to recover lost ground and give breathing space to its beleaguered cadres who were in retreat since the AITC took over the state government in 2011. Of course, in the election, the Congress won a larger number of seats than the CPI(M) despite the latter contesting more. Apart from its failure to prevent a second term for the AITC, the CPI(M) drifted further to the margins and this was fully evident in the 2019 general election outcome. In this coming assembly election, unlike 2016, the CPI(M)-Congress alliance was fighting for a respectable third place. Some of its supporters entertain the hope that its intervention would lead to a fractured verdict and give space to the party to influence the formation of an anti-BJP coalition that included the AITC and the Congress. This plodding approach was upset by the unexpected emergence of Abbas Siddiqui of the Furfura Sharif seminary as a rallying point for Muslim youth, particularly in North and South 24 Parganas. Initially the thrust of this formation was to ally with the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen of Asaduddin Owaisi and craft an independent Muslim bloc detached from both the AITC and BJP. However, a section of the CPI(M) made Siddiqui a more tempting alternative. A significant chunk of the Muslim vote plus the transferable vote of the CPI(M) would make the third formation more winnable in a large number of seats and catapult the ISF to a position where it could claim to be the foremost representative of Muslims in the state. Siddiqui, in short, would become the Bengal counterpart of Badruddin Ajmal in Assam. The CPI(M) believed it could use the ISF to make a strong comeback without jeopardizing its United Front strategy. However, at Sunday’s Brigade rally, Siddiqui showed he had other ideas. First, it is clear that he supplied nearly one-third of the crowds, a feat that demonstrated his mobilizing capacities and placed him a notch above the Congress. Secondly, with his aggressive rhetoric and demand for a stake in the power structure, he took Muslim politics a significant step forward. He made it clear that he was intent on making the Muslim community more than just a vote bank. Finally, he made it clear that he was not the third partner of an unequal alliance but the person who called the shots. To use the terminology of the communists, he transformed the United Front into a Popular Front. The CPI(M) was no longer in the driver’s seat but a passenger along with the Congress. This impression will be reinforced if Siddiqui persists with his angry rhetoric. It is always hazardous to predict the impact of these developments on voting patterns in the coming weeks. Any accretion of Muslim votes to the third front will, naturally, affect the AITC the most and, by implication, benefit its principal challenger — the BJP. However, there are two other possibilities. In 2019, the BJP benefited disproportionately from the shift of Left and Congress votes to its kitty. Will a chunk of these voters have a homecoming if it appears that a vote for the third front candidates will not be wasted on account of its starting with an assured Muslim support? Alternatively, will the aggression of the ISF see Hindu voters of the CPI(M) and Congress run to the BJP out of a sense of trepidation? As of now, the answers are unclear. What is, however, certain is that the angry leader from Furfura Sharif has thrown a spanner in the works. He has either made the electoral outcome more uncertain or made it woefully one-sided.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
04-03-2021||Jharkhand|| Covid: 5,538 senior citizens among 8120 vaccinated on Thursday||Over 8000 Jharkhand residents, including 5,538 senior citizens and 690 middle-aged persons with comorbidities, were administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine in the state on Thursday. This takes the total count of people vaccinated so far above 3.3 lakh in the state, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As per NHM data, as many as 11,178 senior citizens, 2987 middle-aged commoners with comorbid conditions and 3,22,490 healthcare and frontline workers have been administered the first dose of the vaccine in the state since the launch of the immunization programme on January 16. Jharkhand on Thursday achieved only 27 per cent of its target for administering the first dose of the vaccine, while only 20 per cent of those registered for the second dose were inoculated. However, the state has achieved 84 per cent of its vaccination target since the launch of the vaccination drive. On Thursday, the number of senior citizens vaccinated was twice the number of healthcare workers and frontline workers who got the jab. Only 2582 healthcare workers and frontline workers, only 11 per cent of the over 24,000 registered, were inoculated. On the other hand, as many as 5538 senior citizens and 690 middle-agers with Comorbid conditions were inoculated. As many as 804 senior citizens, 128 middle-agers and 379 healthcare and frontline workers were inoculated in Ranchi on Thursday. As many as 675 senior citizens were inoculated in Bokaro, 351 in Dhanbad and only 43 in East Singhbhum were administered the first dose of Covishield. The second phase of vaccination, for senior citizens and people above the age of 45 years who suffered from Comorbid conditions, was launched on March 1. The vaccination drive was also run at private healthcare centers. Meanwhile, Ranchi reported 31 of the 61 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand on Thursday, but also accounted for 32 of the 47 recoveries, a separate bulletin released by the NHM stated. The number of active cases in the state jumped to 486 on the day as fresh cases outnumbered Covid recoveries. Ranchi also reported a Covid-19 casualty on the day, taking the Covid toll in the district to 247 and that in Jharkhand to 1091, the NHM bulletin stated. East Singhbhum reported 16 cases against nine recoveries and the number of patients there reached 65. As per government data, as many as 1,20,129 people have been infected by the mysterious virus in Jharkhand so far and more than 98 per cent of them have recovered. The growth rate of infection in Jharkhand was 0.03 per cent against the national average of 0.10 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state was 2188 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-122
04-03-2021||Jharkhand||BJP attacks state government over rise in naxal violence||Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) state spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo addressed a press meet at the district BJP office in Dhanbad on Thursday. Pratul Shahdeo, while expressing sympathy with the family members of security personnel who died during the IED blast of Chaibasa, said, “We would also like know the reason for the increase in the naxal incidents during the 14-15 months tenure of the present government.” “Those naxals who left the state during our rule due to fear are now raising their heads again,” stated Shahdeo while talking to the media and added that they would also like to know why there is apna apna sarkar (own own government) feeling among the naxal elements of the state. “Questions like why security forces are being increasingly targeted by the naxals needs to be answered by the present government,” said Shahdeo and added that the government also needs to think over that why naxalism has returned back in the state during its tenure. Earlier, he also termed the budget presented by the state government as “nothing but jugglery of arithmetic, aimed at befooling common people”. “It seems that the budget is totally dependent on the central government provided fund as out of the budget provision of 91 thousand crores, the government will depend on centre provided fund worth more than 58 thousand crores. This means it is an attempt to shift the ball in the centre’s court,” charged Shahdeo. “The budget also shows a lack of confidence of the chief minister towards his cabinet colleagues as more than 48 per cent of the fund allocation has been made to the department lying with the chief minister himself,” charged Shahdeo while talking to the media. He also charged the government of ignoring the basic areas like health, energy and drinking water supply by decreasing budgetary allocation in these areas. “The government has not made any budgetary allocation for DVC pending arrear payment, as per the negotiations held with the DVC for pending arrears,” said Shahdeo. “The government has resorted to packaging of names in the budget and besides the ongoing Mukhyamantri Dal Bhaat Yojna they have started another scheme Guruji kitchen,” said Shahdeo. “The government has also deceived the farmers and though as per its claim to provide loan waiver of Rs 50,000 each to farmers it required a fund of Rs 5,500 crore but a provision of only Rs 1,200 crore  has been made in the budget for the purpose,” accused Shahdeo. He also accused the state government of not fulfilling any promise made to the youth including the promise to provide job to 6 lakh youths, providing unemployment allowances and provision for regularisation of jobs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-123
04-03-2021||Jharkhand||Ruling party MLA rakes up illegal mining, BJP joins protest in Assembly ||Some MLAs of the ruling JMM stepped up the heat against their own government on Thursday over illegal mining in Santhal Parganas, seeking chief minister Hemant Soren’s intervention to curb practice in the region that is their stronghoid with the BJP seizing the opportunty to embarass the govenment in the Assembly. Lobin Hembrom, JMM MLA from Borio in Sahebganj district, staged a protest outside the House on Thursday, holding banners before the start of the day's proceedings. Seizing the opportunity, the Opposition BJP also joined in, hailing his move to speak against the alleged wrongdoings of his own government. Two other JMM MLAs—Nalin Soren (Shikaripara) and Sita Soren (Jama) _ have already filed questions during the ongoing session to seek the government’s response on the issue. “Illegal stone and sand mining is rampant in Sahebganj district which both the CM and I represent," said Lobin. "I have been alerting the local district administration and state government on the massive loss to the state ex-chequer as well as damage to local ecology, but to no avail. A few JMM workers, who claim to be representatives of the CM, is engaged in facilitating illegal mining. This must stop or else, I will hit the streets to fight for the people,” he said. Lobin said that last month, he conducted a surprise inspection of trucks at toll plazas and none had valid challans. “The CM must act before it gets late,” he said, adding that two other JMM MLAs, Sita Soren and Nalin Soren, were also making similar demands. BJP MLA from Sahebganj Anant Ojha maintained that Lobin’s protest echoed their concerns. “The BJP has been saying time and again that this government, led by JMM, is into illegal mining to fill the party coffers. CM happens to be the minister of mines department and accountability lies with him,” he said. The chorus of illegal mining also reverberated inside the House. As the day’s session began at 11am, BJP demanded that Speaker Rabindranath Mahto allow an adjournment motion to debate alleged illegal mining. But after the Speaker disapproved, all BJP MLAs descended into the Well of the House,  raising slogans against the government. Mahto chose to continue with House proceedings, and appealed to the protesting MLAs to maintain decorum. But BJP MLAs resorted to a ruckus by whistling and singing "Hare Rama, Hare Krishna" with the Speaker going ahead with Question Hour and Zero Hour amid the din. In response to a question from AJSU-P MLA Lambodar Mahto (Gomia), state rural development minister Alamgir Alam told the House that the government was trying to hold pending panchayat polls at the earliest. “The process of delimitation, rectification in voter lists is expected to be over by May-June after which elections will be conducted. We are trying to get it done by end of this year,” he said. Chaibasa MLA Deepak Birua rued the suspension of government procurement centres in his constituency even though many farmers were willing to sell their khariff crops. Chief minister Hemant rplied that the government would direct districts to open procurement centres at all places as suggested by MLAs or their representatives. Speaker adjourned the House at 12.30pm for lunch amid continued bedlam. The House resumed an hour later but was adjourned again for about an hour after the Speaker convened a meeting of Opposition and ruling party MLAs to end the impasse. After the House reconvened,  a customary debate on the state budget tabled on Wednesday was held with the Speaker finally adjourning the House for the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-123
04-03-2021||Jharkhand||Pollution funds go waste, machines lie unused as air turns foul in Dhanbad||Dust sweeping machines and other existing resources of Dhanbad are lying unused even at a time when residents of the district are facing acute pollution due to rising PM 10 levels in the air. Funds worth Rs 10 crore, provided under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) in 2019 to procure machinery for controlling air pollution, are also lying unutilised. Nothing has been done with this money apart from buying two water sprinklers worth Rs 50 lakh each in February. The Central Pollution Control Board has also sanctioned an additional fund worth Rs 50 crore so that the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation can buy other machines like the Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring System. Meanwhile, the DMC has been sending utilisation certificates of old machines purchased under some other fund in the name of the NCAP allocation. Process to start paver blocking of roadsides, procure other devices has not yet been initiated as per plans of the district environment management committee. Hubban Mallick, Director of Pay and Clean service, which is looking after the operation and maintenance of the five dust sweeping machines, said that they have been operated for less than seven months over the last one and half years. “We had  resumed their operation in November after eight months, but in February we were asked to stop carrying out the process. No official reason was given for this. Any halt in work requires a lot of investment as the machines develop technical problems. We have also received only Rs 30 lakh out of the total bill of Rs 60 lakh from November to February.” Assistant engineer of DMC Uday Kumar Kachhap said the process has been stopped for servicing of the machines. “We purchased two water sprinkler vehicles and will be procuring other machines when more funds arrive,” he added. Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board member Rajiv Sharma accused the concerned authorities of lacking vision in controlling pollution. “A proper road map for improving the pollution scenario should be prepared in order to make best utilisation of funds and resources. Innovative steps like installation of air filtration plants as done in Shanghai in China should be taken. I will write a letter or two to the JSPCB regarding this,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-123
04-03-2021||Jharkhand||National ranking for seven shuttlers of Jharkhand||Seven shuttlers from Jharkhand have grabbed rankings for the first time in the history of state badminton in the standings released by the Badminton Association of India (BAI). The inclusion bears testimony to the improvement the players have made. Ananya Singh (Ranchi) and Sujal Rakshit have been ranked 7th in the girls and boys under-13 singles category while Seraikela-Kharsawan's Aadhya Singh and East Singhbhum's Sarah Sharma have secured 2nd and 7th rank in the girls under-15 singles section, respectively. Aadhya and Ranchi shuttler Niraj Kesri have been seeded 7th in the under-15 mixed doubles category even as the promising Niraj Kesri took the 9th place in the boys under-15 singles section. Aadhya, who last month won the Yonex Sunrise sponsorship, secured the 13th rank in the girl's under-17 singles category whereas Priyanshu Tirkey of Gumla enjoys the 8th rank in the boy's under-17 singles section. The young tribal shuttler is also ranked 3rd in the boy's under-17 doubles section. Sarah Sharma and Anisha Mishra, both from East Singhbhum, have secrured the 6th place in the girls under-17 doubles catergory while Ranchi's Ananya Singh has grabbed the 6th rank in the girls under-13 mixed doubles section. A visibly happy Jharkhand Badminton Association (JBA) secretary K Prabhakar Rao said the rankings show state shuttlers are moving forward. "We are very with the rankings released by the BAI. It shows that our shuttlers are leaving their impression in the national badminton circuit," he added. Jamshedpur-based Rao, who also happens to be the joint secretary of BAI, said he was hopeful that more shuttlers from the state would get national rankings in the time to come. "There is no dearth of promising shuttlers in Jharkhand. They need adequate guidance and training to attain glory. We are doing all we can to channelise the skills of our shuttlers," he added. All the East Singhbhum players are from Jamshedpur and train at the Mohan Ahuja Stadium, the headquarters of JBA. The state shuttle outfit organises tournaments in regular intervals to give exposure to the players. With things opening up post-Covid, JBA has plans to resume tournaments in the right earnest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-123
04-03-2021||Jharkhand||Wake up from slumber, HC tells govt on witch-hunts||Jharkhand High Court took suo motu cognizance of the recent murder of five persons of a family in Gumla  and asked the state government to "wake up from its slumber to to tackle the scourge of witch-hunting, directing the state  DGP and chief secretary on Thursday to furnish a proper report of the February incident before the next hearing on March 18. A bench of Chief Justice Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan observed, “The sState should awake from its slumber.” It asked Jharkhand Legal Services Authority for a ground report by dispatching a team to the affected village. It also asked the state government to apprise it on steps taken to curb such a social menace. In a heart-wrenching incident, five members of a tribal family were hacked to death in Buruhatu Amtola in Kamdara block of Gumla district in the intervening night of February 23 and 24. A five- year- old boy was among the deceased. Soon after the news broke, police formed a special investigation teame. On February 26, police announced that the murders were a case of witch-hunt and arrested eight persons directly involved in the killings. Those killed were identified as Nikudin Toppo (60), his wife Josphina Toppo (55), their son Vincent (35), daughter-in-law Shivani (30) and the elderly couple’s grandson Balwina. Vincent, Shivani and Balwina were found dead, hacked to death, in one room, while Nikudin was discovered dead at the balcony of their kutcha house. Josphina lay dead on a bed in another room. Gumla SP H.P. Janardhanan had told reoprters that the incident was linked to a witch-hunt as police investigations revealed the villagers targeted the elderly couple (Nikudin and Josphina) who, they suspected, were practicing black-magic because of which several villagers and cattle had allegedly died in recent months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-123
04-03-2021||Jharkhand||RIMS fixes anamoly in blood bank to eliminate middlemen  ||Attendants of patients in need of blood at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) will not have to queue up outside the blood bank and deal with middlemen anymore. In a bid to do away with blood agents, who often find gullible attendants and sell blood to them, the hospital administration has decided that only staff working in the blood bank will directly deliver blood to the patient’s ward on the basis of requisitions by doctors or nurses. Earlier, an attendant of a patient in need of blood transfusion had to go to the blood bank, get the blood bag of the required group and carry it to the patient’s bed without any assistance from hospital staff. This process, doctors said, often led to overcrowding at the blood bank, which gave middlemen the opportunity to operate. “Blood is provided free of cost to all patients in the hospital. But lacunae in the process of getting blood for patients allowed agents to sell blood to patients in need,” said the RIMS Superintendent, Dr  Vivek Kashyap. “In the new process, the attendants will not have to directly deal with blood bank staff. This means that the blood bank will work only on the basis of requisitions made by doctors and nurses,” he added. Attendants in the past have complained of shortage of blood at the RIMS blood bank. In many instances, attendants of patients had to get blood from other sources (blood banks) as blood of the required group was not available at RIMS. The shortage of blood, hospital sources said, gave agents and middlemen the opportunity to charge extra from attendants for blood, which is supposed to be provided free of cost at RIMS. The availability of blood is crucial at RIMS as most road accident victims are brought there. Also, patients suffering from sickle cell anaemia and Thalassemia undergo treatment at RIMS and delay in blood transfusion could prove fatal for them, doctors said. “We keep holding blood donation camps and also encourage people to donate blood. But it is difficult to predict how much blood would be required for transfusion on a given day. So we try to maintain a stock at the blood bank as far as possible,” said Dr. Kashyap, admitting that most hospitals had to deal with a shortage of blood.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-123
04-03-2021||Jharkhand||IED blast in West Singhbhum kills three security personnel||Three jawans of Jharkhand Jaguar were killed and two others seriously injured in an IED blast triggered by the outlawed naxal outfit CPI-Maoist under Toklo thana area in West Singhbhum district bordering Khunti district about 160 kms away from here on Thursday morning. The injured have been air-lifted to Ranchi for treatment. Among those killed, two were identified as Haridwar Shah and Kiran Suri, both constables belonging to Jharkhand Jaguar Assault Group-11. Condition of one of the injured is said to be extremely critical. The IED blast took place while the police and jawans of Jharkhand Jaguar Assault Group were carrying out an anti-insurgency operation at Lanji jungle under Toklo thana area which falls in the Chakradharpur subdivision of the district at about 8.30 am. Soon after the blast took place, an encounter between the police and naxals began which is still continuing. Deputy inspector general ( DIG), Kolhan, Rajiv Ranjan Singh confirmed about the IED blast in the West Singhbhum district. "The IED blast has taken place at Lanji jungle during an anti-insurgency operation there by the police and Jharkhand Jaguar. There some casualties, " said the DIG, Kolhan while talking to The Telegraph Online, adding that an encounter is on at the scene of the blast. It may be mentioned here that the CPI-Maoist's squads of Anal and Maharaj Pramanik are active in the Toklo thana area, bordering West Singhbhum, Khunti and adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawn district. An encounter between the naxals and CRPF had taken place at the same Lanji jungle in February.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-123
04-03-2021||Jharkhand||Almost 5,000 senior citizens inoculated in a day||Almost 5000 senior citizens and over 400 middle-aged persons with comorbid conditions were inoculated against the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on Wednesday, taking the total count of senior citizens, who have been administered the first dose of the vaccine, to 9,356 in the state, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. On Wednesday, as many as 4,958 senior citizens, including 864 from Pakur alone, were administered the first dose of the Covishield vaccine. As per NHM data, as many as 313 senior citizens were inoculated in Ranchi on the day, while 648 senior citizens were administered the vaccine jab in Bokaro. Only 38 senior citizens were inoculated against the virus in East Singhbhum. As many as 129 middle-agers with comorbid conditions were inoculated in Deoghar, while 90 people from this category were administered the vaccine in Pakur, revealed NHM data. In Ranchi, as many as 63 middle-agers with comorbid conditions were inoculated. So far, the state has administered the first dose of the vaccine to 918 people who are above the age of 45 years and are suffering from some or the other comorbid condition. Meanwhile, Jharkhand on Wednesday administered the first dose of the vaccine to 8145 healthcare workers and frontline workers, which was only 33 per cent of the total number of registered beneficiaries. The second dose of the vaccine was administered to as many as 6201 of the over 23,000 registered beneficiaries, the NHM stated in its report. As per government data, the state has so far administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine to 3,09.814 people and as many as 39185 of these beneficiaries have also received the second dose of the vaccine. Jharkhand has achieved 83 per cent of its target in administering the first dose of the vaccine and 70 per cent in administering the second dose. Meanwhile, Covid recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection in the state on Wednesday, bringing the count of active cases down to 473, a bulletin released by the NHM stated. As many as 31 people were found infected in Jharkhand on the day, while 56 patients recovered. Ranchi reported 22 of the 31 fresh cases but also accounted for 25 of 56 recoveries on the day, the NHM bulletin further stated. No fresh Covid casualties were reported in the state on Wednesday. So far, as many as 1,20,068 people have been infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand so far and more than 98 per cent of them have recovered. By Wednesday evening, Ranchi accounted for 288 of the 473 active cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-123
04-03-2021||Jharkhand||Two killed in mishap in illegal mica mine ||An illegal mica mining turned into a death trap for two villagers at Rakka in Mansadih forest area of Giridih district on Wednesday. The deceased were identified as Ranjit Rai, 22, and Satish Rana, 24, both residents of Tisro village. The incident took place in an illegal mine in Tisri block, around 170km from Ranchi, when the wires of a lift snapped causing the vehicle to crash and kill the two villagers deep (around 600 feet) in the mine. The roof of the mine has also started to cave in, hindering the rescue operation. Giridih deputy commissioner Rahul Kumar Sinha said they had requested the NDRF team in Ranchi and Patna to help retrieve the two bodies. He said he had also sent a letter requesting the state government to urge the Union home ministry to allow the NDRF for the rescue operation. “The bodies are stuck deep in the mine whose roof can cave in any moment. It will be very risky to try and recover the bodies from the mine where safety provisions are not followed. We need some experts who can bring out the bodies and have requested the state government to urge the Union home ministry to despatch the NDRF team from either Ranchi or Patna. They are trained in such rescue operations,” Sinha said. According to a report, there were nearly 50 persons working in the illegal mica mine deep inside the forest area. However, the loud noise of the lift falling down caused other workers to run from the spot. Only Ranjit and Satish got stuck. Sources in the district administration said the villagers were lured by the mica-mining mafia to work in such illegal mines that didn’t adhere to safety norms. Mica extracted from such illegal and abandoned mines are sold to intermediaries and then exported to branded cosmetic manufacturers. Mica is used to add shine to natural cosmetics and is a key ingredient in products such as face packs, mascara, eyeliner, lipstick and nail polish. The mines have been closed but people still engage in scrap mining by risking their lives. “Most of such illegal mines operate in forest areas that are inaccessible. We do demolish such mines as soon as information reaches us, but it is the responsibility of forest officials to conduct surveys of such illegal mines and seek help from district administration in and closing them down. We are ready to provide all help to the forest department in closing down such mines in the forest area. It is unfortunate that lives are still lost in such a way in Giridih,” Sinha added. The deputy commissioner ruled out compensation to the dependants of the deceased as it was an illegal mine. However, an FIR would be lodged against the owner of the illegal mica mines,” said Sinha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-123
